I answer that, The sin of incontinence may be considered in two ways. First, on the part of
the passion which occasions the downfall of reason. In this way incontinence of desire is worse
than incontinence of anger, because the movement of desire is more inordinate than the movement
of anger. There are four reasons for this, and the Philosopher indicates them, Ethic. vii,
6: First, because the movement of anger partakes somewhat of reason, since the angry man tends
to avenge the injury done to him, and reason dictates this in a certain degree. Yet he does
not tend thereto perfectly, because he does not intend the due mode of vengeance. On the other
hand, the movement of desire is altogether in accord with sense and nowise in accord with reason.
Secondly, because the movement of anger results more from the bodily temperament owing to the
quickness of the movement of the bile which tends to anger. Hence one who by bodily temperament
is disposed to anger is more readily angry than one who is disposed to concupiscence is liable
to be concupiscent: wherefore also it happens more often that the children of those who are
disposed to anger are themselves disposed to anger, than that the children of those who are
disposed to concupiscence are also disposed to concupiscence. Now that which results from the
natural disposition of the body is deemed more deserving of pardon. Thirdly, because anger
seeks to work openly, whereas concupiscence is fain to disguise itself and creeps in by stealth.
Fourthly, because he who is subject to concupiscence works with pleasure, whereas the angry
man works as though forced by a certain previous displeasure.

Secondly, the sin of incontinence may be considered with regard to the evil into which one
falls through forsaking reason; and thus incontinence of anger is, for the most part, more
grievous, because it leads to things that are harmful to one's neighbor.

Reply Obj. 1: It is more difficult to resist pleasure perseveringly than anger, because concupiscence
is enduring. But for the moment it is more difficult to resist anger, on account of its impetuousness.

Reply Obj. 2: Concupiscence is stated to be without reason, not as though it destroyed altogether
the judgment of reason, but because nowise does it follow the judgment of reason: and for this
reason it is more disgraceful.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument considers incontinence with regard to its result.

QUESTION 157

OF CLEMENCY AND MEEKNESS (In Four Articles)

We must next consider clemency and meekness, and the contrary vices. Concerning the virtues
themselves there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether clemency and meekness are altogether identical?

(2) Whether each of them is a virtue?

(3) Whether each is a part of temperance?

(4) Of their comparison with the other virtues.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 157, Art. 1]

Whether Clemency and Meekness Are Absolutely the Same?

Objection 1: It would seem that clemency and meekness are absolutely the same. For meekness
moderates anger, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 5). Now anger is "desire of vengeance"
[*Aristotle, Rhet. ii, 2]. Since, then, clemency "is leniency of a superior in inflicting punishment
on an inferior," as Seneca states (De Clementia ii, 3), and vengeance is taken by means of
punishment, it would seem that clemency and meekness are the same.

Obj. 2: Further, Tully says (De Invent. Rhet. ii, 54) that "clemency is a virtue whereby the
mind is restrained by kindness when unreasonably provoked to hatred of a person," so that apparently
clemency moderates hatred. Now, according to Augustine [*Ep. ccxi], hatred is caused by anger;
and this is the matter of meekness and clemency. Therefore seemingly clemency and meekness
are absolutely the same.

Obj. 3: Further, the same vice is not opposed to different virtues. But the same vice, namely
cruelty, is opposed to meekness and clemency. Therefore it seems that meekness and clemency
are absolutely the same.

On the contrary, According to the aforesaid definition of Seneca (Obj. 1) "clemency is leniency
of a superior towards an inferior": whereas meekness is not merely of superior to inferior,
but of each to everyone. Therefore meekness and clemency are not absolutely the same.

I answer that, As stated in Ethic. ii, 3, a moral virtue is "about passions and actions." Now
internal passions are principles of external actions, and are likewise obstacles thereto. Wherefore
virtues that moderate passions, to a certain extent, concur towards the same effect as virtues
that moderate actions, although they differ specifically. Thus it belongs properly to justice
to restrain man from theft, whereunto he is inclined by immoderate love or desire of money,
which is restrained by liberality; so that liberality concurs with justice towards the effect,
which is abstention from theft. This applies to the case in point; because through the passion
of anger a man is provoked to inflict a too severe punishment, while it belongs directly to
clemency to mitigate punishment, and this might be prevented by excessive anger.

Consequently meekness, in so far as it restrains the onslaught of anger, concurs with clemency
towards the same effect; yet they differ from one another, inasmuch as clemency moderates external
punishment, while meekness properly mitigates the passion of anger.

Reply Obj. 1: Meekness regards properly the desire itself of vengeance; whereas clemency regards
the punishment itself which is applied externally for the purpose of vengeance.

Reply Obj. 2: Man's affections incline to the moderation of things that are unpleasant to him
in themselves. Now it results from one man loving another that he takes no pleasure in the
latter's punishment in itself, but only as directed to something else, for instance justice,
or the correction of the person punished. Hence love makes one quick to mitigate punishment--and
this pertains to clemency--while hatred is an obstacle to such mitigation. For this reason
Tully says that "the mind provoked to hatred" that is to punish too severely, "is restrained
by clemency," from inflicting too severe a punishment, so that clemency directly moderates
not hatred but punishment.

Reply Obj. 3: The vice of anger, which denotes excess in the passion of anger, is properly
opposed to meekness, which is directly concerned with the passion of anger; while cruelty denotes
excess in punishing. Wherefore Seneca says (De Clementia ii, 4) that "those are called cruel
who have reason for punishing, but lack moderation in punishing." Those who delight in a man's
punishment for its own sake may be called savage or brutal, as though lacking the human feeling
that leads one man to love another.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 157, Art. 2]

Whether Both Clemency and Meekness Are Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that neither clemency nor meekness is a virtue. For no virtue is
opposed to another virtue. Yet both of these are apparently opposed to severity, which is a
virtue. Therefore neither clemency nor meekness is a virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, "Virtue is destroyed by excess and defect" [*Ethic. ii, 2]. But both clemency
and meekness consist in a certain decrease; for clemency decreases punishment, and meekness
decreases anger. Therefore neither clemency nor meekness is a virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, meekness or mildness is included (Matt. 5:4) among the beatitudes, and (Gal.
5:23) among the fruits. Now the virtues differ from the beatitudes and fruits. Therefore they
are not comprised under virtue.

On the contrary, Seneca says (De Clementia ii, 5): "Every good man is conspicuous for his clemency
and meekness." Now it is virtue properly that belongs to a good man, since "virtue it is that
makes its possessor good, and renders his works good also" (Ethic. ii, 6). Therefore clemency
and meekness are virtues.

I answer that, The nature of moral virtue consists in the subjection of appetite to reason,
as the Philosopher declares (Ethic. i, 13). Now this is verified both in clemency and in meekness.
For clemency, in mitigating punishment, "is guided by reason," according to Seneca (De Clementia
ii, 5), and meekness, likewise, moderates anger according to right reason, as stated in Ethic.
iv, 5. Wherefore it is manifest that both clemency and meekness are virtues.

Reply Obj. 1: Meekness is not directly opposed to severity; for meekness is about anger. On
the other hand, severity regards the external infliction of punishment, so that accordingly
it would seem rather to be opposed to clemency, which also regards external punishing, as stated
above (A. 1). Yet they are not really opposed to one another, since they are both according
to right reason. For severity is inflexible in the infliction of punishment when right reason
requires it; while clemency mitigates punishment also according to right reason, when and where
this is requisite. Wherefore they are not opposed to one another as they are not about the
same thing.

Reply Obj. 2: According to the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 5), "the habit that observes the mean
in anger is unnamed; so that the virtue is denominated from the diminution of anger, and is
designated by the name of meekness." For the virtue is more akin to diminution than to excess,
because it is more natural to man to desire vengeance for injuries done to him, than to be
lacking in that desire, since "scarcely anyone belittles an injury done to himself," as Sallust
observes [*Cf. Q. 120]. As to clemency, it mitigates punishment, not in respect of that which
is according to right reason, but as regards that which is according to common law, which is
the object of legal justice: yet on account of some particular consideration, it mitigates
the punishment, deciding, as it were, that a man is not to be punished any further. Hence Seneca
says (De Clementia ii, 1): "Clemency grants this, in the first place, that those whom she sets
free are declared immune from all further punishment; and remission of punishment due amounts
to a pardon." Wherefore it is clear that clemency is related to severity as equity [the Greek
epieikeia [*Cf. Q. 120]] to legal justice, whereof severity is a part, as regards the infliction
of punishment in accordance with the law. Yet clemency differs from equity, as we shall state
further on (A. 3, ad 1).

Reply Obj. 3: The beatitudes are acts of virtue: while the fruits are delights in virtuous
acts. Wherefore nothing hinders meekness being reckoned both virtue, and beatitude and fruit.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 157, Art. 3]

Whether the Aforesaid Virtues Are Parts of Temperance?

Objection 1: It would seem that the aforesaid virtues are not parts of temperance. For clemency
mitigates punishment, as stated above (A. 2). But the Philosopher (Ethic. v, 10) ascribes this
to equity, which pertains to justice, as stated above (Q. 120, A. 2). Therefore seemingly clemency
is not a part of temperance.

Obj. 2: Further, temperance is concerned with concupiscences; whereas meekness and clemency
regard, not concupiscences, but anger and vengeance. Therefore they should not be reckoned
parts of temperance.

Obj. 3: Further, Seneca says (De Clementia ii, 4): "A man may be said to be of unsound mind
when he takes pleasure in cruelty." Now this is opposed to clemency and meekness. Since then
an unsound mind is opposed to prudence, it seems that clemency and meekness are parts of prudence
rather than of temperance.

On the contrary, Seneca says (De Clementia ii, 3) that "clemency is temperance of the soul
in exercising the power of taking revenge." Tully also (De Invent. Rhet. ii, 54) reckons clemency
a part of temperance.

I answer that, Parts are assigned to the principal virtues, in so far as they imitate them
in some secondary matter as to the mode whence the virtue derives its praise and likewise its
name. Thus the mode and name of justice consist in a certain equality, those of fortitude in
a certain strength of mind, those of temperance in a certain restraint, inasmuch as it restrains
the most vehement concupiscences of the pleasures of touch. Now clemency and meekness likewise
consist in a certain restraint, since clemency mitigates punishment, while meekness represses
anger, as stated above (AA. 1, 2). Therefore both clemency and meekness are annexed to temperance
as principal virtue, and accordingly are reckoned to be parts thereof.

Reply Obj. 1: Two points must be considered in the mitigation of punishment. One is that punishment
should be mitigated in accordance with the lawgiver's intention, although not according to
the letter of the law; and in this respect it pertains to equity. The other point is a certain
moderation of a man's inward disposition, so that he does not exercise his power of inflicting
punishment. This belongs properly to clemency, wherefore Seneca says (De Clementia ii, 3) that
"it is temperance of the soul in exercising the power of taking revenge." This moderation of
soul comes from a certain sweetness of disposition, whereby a man recoils from anything that
may be painful to another. Wherefore Seneca says (De Clementia ii, 3) that "clemency is a certain
smoothness of the soul"; for, on the other hand, there would seem to be a certain roughness
of soul in one who fears not to pain others.

Reply Obj. 2: The annexation of secondary to principal virtues depends on the mode of virtue,
which is, so to speak, a kind of form of the virtue, rather than on the matter. Now meekness
and clemency agree with temperance in mode, as stated above, though they agree not in matter.

Reply Obj. 3: Unsoundness is corruption of soundness. Now just as soundness of body is corrupted
by the body lapsing from the condition due to the human species, so unsoundness of mind is
due to the mind lapsing from the disposition due to the human species. This occurs both in
respect of the reason, as when a man loses the use of reason, and in respect of the appetitive
power, as when a man loses that humane feeling whereby "every man is naturally friendly towards
all other men" (Ethic. viii, 1). The unsoundness of mind that excludes the use of reason is
opposed to prudence. But that a man who takes pleasure in the punishment of others is said
to be of unsound mind, is because he seems on this account to be devoid of the humane feeling
which gives rise to clemency.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 157, Art. 4]

Whether Clemency and Meekness Are the Greatest Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that clemency and meekness are the greatest virtues. For virtue
is deserving of praise chiefly because it directs man to happiness that consists in the knowledge
of God. Now meekness above all directs man to the knowledge of God: for it is written (James
1:21): "With meekness receive the ingrafted word," and (Ecclus. 5:13): "Be meek to hear the
word" of God. Again, Dionysius says (Ep. viii ad Demophil.) that "Moses was deemed worthy of
the Divine apparition on account of his great meekness." Therefore meekness is the greatest
of virtues.

Obj. 2: Further, seemingly a virtue is all the greater according as it is more acceptable to
God and men. Now meekness would appear to be most acceptable to God. For it is written (Ecclus.
1:34, 35): "That which is agreeable" to God is "faith and meekness"; wherefore Christ expressly
invites us to be meek like unto Himself (Matt. 11:29), where He says: "Learn of Me, because
I am meek and humble of heart"; and Hilary declares [*Comment. in Matth. iv, 3] that "Christ
dwells in us by our meekness of soul." Again, it is most acceptable to men; wherefore it is
written (Ecclus. 3:19): "My son, do thy works in meekness, and thou shalt be beloved above
the glory of men": for which reason it is also declared (Prov. 20:28) that the King's "throne
is strengthened by clemency." Therefore meekness and clemency are the greatest of virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 2) that "the meek are they who yield
to reproaches, and resist not evil, but overcome evil by good." Therefore meekness and clemency
are the greatest virtues.

On the contrary, They are not reckoned as principal virtues, but are annexed to another, as
to a principal, virtue.

I answer that, Nothing prevents certain virtues from being greatest, not indeed simply, nor
in every respect, but in a particular genus. It is impossible for clemency or meekness to be
absolutely the greatest virtues, since they owe their praise to the fact that they withdraw
a man from evil, by mitigating anger or punishment. Now it is more perfect to obtain good than
to lack evil. Wherefore those virtues like faith, hope, charity, and likewise prudence and
justice, which direct one to good simply, are absolutely greater virtues than clemency and
meekness.

Yet nothing prevents clemency and meekness from having a certain restricted excellence among
the virtues which resist evil inclinations. For anger, which is mitigated by meekness, is,
on account of its impetuousness, a very great obstacle to man's free judgment of truth: wherefore
meekness above all makes a man self-possessed. Hence it is written (Ecclus. 10:31): "My son,
keep thy soul in meekness." Yet the concupiscences of the pleasures of touch are more shameful,
and harass more incessantly, for which reason temperance is more rightly reckoned as a principal
virtue. as stated above (Q. 141, A. 7, ad 2). As to clemency, inasmuch as it mitigates punishment,
it would seem to approach nearest to charity, the greatest of the virtues, since thereby we
do good towards our neighbor, and hinder his evil.

Reply Obj. 1: Meekness disposes man to the knowledge of God, by removing an obstacle; and this
in two ways. First, because it makes man self-possessed by mitigating his anger, as stated
above; secondly, because it pertains to meekness that a man does not contradict the words of
truth, which many do through being disturbed by anger. Wherefore Augustine says (De Doctr.
Christ. ii, 7): "To be meek is not to contradict Holy Writ, whether we understand it, if it
condemn our evil ways, or understand it not, as though we might know better and have a clearer
insight of the truth."

Reply Obj. 2: Meekness and clemency make us acceptable to God and men, in so far as they concur
with charity, the greatest of the virtues, towards the same effect, namely the mitigation of
our neighbor's evils.

Reply Obj. 3: Mercy and piety agree indeed with meekness and clemency by concurring towards
the same effect, namely the mitigation of our neighbor's evils. Nevertheless they differ as
to motive. For piety relieves a neighbor's evil through reverence for a superior, for instance
God or one's parents: mercy relieves a neighbor's evil, because this evil is displeasing to
one, in so far as one looks upon it as affecting oneself, as stated above (Q. 30, A. 2): and
this results from friendship which makes friends rejoice and grieve for the same things: meekness
does this, by removing anger that urges to vengeance, and clemency does this through leniency
of soul, in so far as it judges equitable that a person be no further punished.

QUESTION 158

OF ANGER (In Eight Articles)

We must next consider the contrary vices: (1) Anger that is opposed to meekness; (2) Cruelty
that is opposed to clemency. Concerning anger there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether it is lawful to be angry?

(2) Whether anger is a sin?

(3) Whether it is a mortal sin?

(4) Whether it is the most grievous of sins?

(5) Of its species;

(6) Whether anger is a capital vice?

(7) Of its daughters;

(8) Whether it has a contrary vice?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 158, Art. 1]

Whether It Is Lawful to Be Angry?

Objection 1: It would seem that it cannot be lawful to be angry. For Jerome in his exposition
on Matt. 5:22, "Whosoever is angry with his brother," etc. says: "Some codices add 'without
cause.' However, in the genuine codices the sentence is unqualified, and anger is forbidden
altogether." Therefore it is nowise lawful to be angry.

Obj. 2: Further, according to Dionysius (Div. Nom. iv) "The soul's evil is to be without reason."
Now anger is always without reason: for the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 6) that "anger does
not listen perfectly to reason"; and Gregory says (Moral. v, 45) that "when anger sunders the
tranquil surface of the soul, it mangles and rends it by its riot"; and Cassian says (De Inst.
Caenob. viii, 6): "From whatever cause it arises, the angry passion boils over and blinds the
eye of the mind." Therefore it is always evil to be angry.

Obj. 3: Further, anger is "desire for vengeance" [*Aristotle, Rhet. ii, 2] according to a gloss
on Lev. Now it would seem unlawful to desire vengeance, since this should be left to God, according
to Deut. 32:35, "Revenge is Mine." Therefore it would seem that to be angry is always an evil.

Obj. 4: Further, all that makes us depart from likeness to God is evil. Now anger always makes
us depart from likeness to God, since God judges with tranquillity according to Wis. 12:18.
Therefore to be angry is always an evil.

On the contrary, Chrysostom [*Hom. xi in the Opus Imperfectum, falsely ascribed to St. John
Chrysostom] says: "He that is angry without cause, shall be in danger; but he that is angry
with cause, shall not be in danger: for without anger, teaching will be useless, judgments
unstable, crimes unchecked." Therefore to be angry is not always an evil.

I answer that, Properly speaking anger is a passion of the sensitive appetite, and gives its
name to the irascible power, as stated above (I-II, Q. 46, A. 1) when we were treating of the
passions. Now with regard to the passions of the soul, it is to be observed that evil may be
found in them in two ways. First by reason of the passion's very species, which is derived
from the passion's object. Thus envy, in respect of its species, denotes an evil, since it
is displeasure at another's good, and such displeasure is in itself contrary to reason: wherefore,
as the Philosopher remarks (Ethic. ii, 6), "the very mention of envy denotes something evil."
Now this does not apply to anger, which is the desire for revenge, since revenge may be desired
both well and ill. Secondly, evil is found in a passion in respect of the passion's quantity,
that is in respect of its excess or deficiency; and thus evil may be found in anger, when,
to wit, one is angry, more or less than right reason demands. But if one is angry in accordance
with right reason, one's anger is deserving of praise.

Reply Obj. 1: The Stoics designated anger and all the other passions as emotions opposed to
the order of reason; and accordingly they deemed anger and all other passions to be evil, as
stated above (I-II, Q. 24, A. 2) when we were treating of the passions. It is in this sense
that Jerome considers anger; for he speaks of the anger whereby one is angry with one's neighbor,
with the intent of doing him a wrong.--But, according to the Peripatetics, to whose opinion
Augustine inclines (De Civ. Dei ix, 4), anger and the other passions of the soul are movements
of the sensitive appetite, whether they be moderated or not, according to reason: and in this
sense anger is not always evil.

Reply Obj. 2: Anger may stand in a twofold relation to reason. First, antecedently; in this
way it withdraws reason from its rectitude, and has therefore the character of evil. Secondly,
consequently, inasmuch as the movement of the sensitive appetite is directed against vice and
in accordance with reason, this anger is good, and is called "zealous anger." Wherefore Gregory
says (Moral. v, 45): "We must beware lest, when we use anger as an instrument of virtue, it
overrule the mind, and go before it as its mistress, instead of following in reason's train,
ever ready, as its handmaid, to obey." This latter anger, although it hinder somewhat the judgment
of reason in the execution of the act, does not destroy the rectitude of reason. Hence Gregory
says (Moral. v, 45) that "zealous anger troubles the eye of reason, whereas sinful anger blinds
it." Nor is it incompatible with virtue that the deliberation of reason be interrupted in the
execution of what reason has deliberated: since art also would be hindered in its act, if it
were to deliberate about what has to be done, while having to act.

Reply Obj. 3: It is unlawful to desire vengeance considered as evil to the man who is to be
punished, but it is praiseworthy to desire vengeance as a corrective of vice and for the good
of justice; and to this the sensitive appetite can tend, in so far as it is moved thereto by
the reason: and when revenge is taken in accordance with the order of judgment, it is God's
work, since he who has power to punish "is God's minister," as stated in Rom. 13:4.

Reply Obj. 4: We can and ought to be like to God in the desire for good; but we cannot be altogether
likened to Him in the mode of our desire, since in God there is no sensitive appetite, as in
us, the movement of which has to obey reason. Wherefore Gregory says (Moral. v, 45) that "anger
is more firmly erect in withstanding vice, when it bows to the command of reason."

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 158, Art. 2]

Whether Anger Is a Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger is not a sin. For we demerit by sinning. But "we do not
demerit by the passions, even as neither do we incur blame thereby," as stated in Ethic. ii,
5. Consequently no passion is a sin. Now anger is a passion as stated above (I-II, Q. 46, A.
1) in the treatise on the passions. Therefore anger is not a sin.

Obj. 2: Further, in every sin there is conversion to some mutable good. But in anger there
is conversion not to a mutable good, but to a person's evil. Therefore anger is not a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, "No man sins in what he cannot avoid," as Augustine asserts [*De Lib. Arb.
iii, 18]. But man cannot avoid anger, for a gloss on Ps. 4:5, "Be ye angry and sin not," says:
"The movement of anger is not in our power." Again, the Philosopher asserts (Ethic. vii, 6)
that "the angry man acts with displeasure." Now displeasure is contrary to the will. Therefore
anger is not a sin.

Obj. But it is not contrary to man's nature to be angry, and it is the natural act of a power,
namely the irascible; wherefore Jerome says in a letter [*Ep. xii ad Anton. Monach.] that "to
be angry is the property of man." Therefore it is not a sin to be angry.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Eph. 4:31): "Let all indignation and anger [*Vulg.: 'Anger
and indignation'] . . . be put away from you."

I answer that, Anger, as stated above (A. 1), is properly the name of a passion. A passion
of the sensitive appetite is good in so far as it is regulated by reason, whereas it is evil
if it set the order of reason aside. Now the order of reason, in regard to anger, may be considered
in relation to two things. First, in relation to the appetible object to which anger tends,
and that is revenge. Wherefore if one desire revenge to be taken in accordance with the order
of reason, the desire of anger is praiseworthy, and is called "zealous anger" [*Cf. Greg.,
Moral. v, 45]. On the other hand, if one desire the taking of vengeance in any way whatever
contrary to the order of reason, for instance if he desire the punishment of one who has not
deserved it, or beyond his deserts, or again contrary to the order prescribed by law, or not
for the due end, namely the maintaining of justice and the correction of defaults, then the
desire of anger will be sinful, and this is called sinful anger.

Secondly, the order of reason in regard to anger may be considered in relation to the mode
of being angry, namely that the movement of anger should not be immoderately fierce, neither
internally nor externally; and if this condition be disregarded, anger will not lack sin, even
though just vengeance be desired.

Reply Obj. 1: Since passion may be either regulated or not regulated by reason, it follows
that a passion considered absolutely does not include the notion of merit or demerit, of praise
or blame. But as regulated by reason, it may be something meritorious and deserving of praise;
while on the other hand, as not regulated by reason, it may be demeritorious and blameworthy.
Wherefore the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 5) that "it is he who is angry in a certain way,
that is praised or blamed."

Reply Obj. 2: The angry man desires the evil of another, not for its own sake but for the sake
of revenge, towards which his appetite turns as to a mutable good.

Reply Obj. 3: Man is master of his actions through the judgment of his reason, wherefore as
to the movements that forestall that judgment, it is not in man's power to prevent them as
a whole, i.e. so that none of them arise, although his reason is able to check each one, if
it arise. Accordingly it is stated that the movement of anger is not in man's power, to the
extent namely that no such movement arise. Yet since this movement is somewhat in his power,
it is not entirely sinless if it be inordinate. The statement of the Philosopher that "the
angry man acts with displeasure," means that he is displeased, not with his being angry, but
with the injury which he deems done to himself: and through this displeasure he is moved to
seek vengeance.

Reply Obj. 4: The irascible power in man is naturally subject to his reason, wherefore its
act is natural to man, in so far as it is in accord with reason, and in so far as it is against
reason, it is contrary to man's nature.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 158, Art. 3]

Whether All Anger Is a Mortal Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that all anger is a mortal sin. For it is written (Job 5:2): "Anger
killeth the foolish man [*Vulg.: 'Anger indeed killeth the foolish']," and he speaks of the
spiritual killing, whence mortal sin takes its name. Therefore all anger is a mortal sin.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing save mortal sin is deserving of eternal condemnation. Now anger deserves
eternal condemnation; for our Lord said (Matt. 5:22): "Whosoever is angry with his brother
shall be in danger of the judgment": and a gloss on this passage says that "the three things
mentioned there, namely judgment, council, and hell-fire, signify in a pointed manner different
abodes in the state of eternal damnation corresponding to various sins." Therefore anger is
a mortal sin.

Obj. 3: Further, whatsoever is contrary to charity is a mortal sin. Now anger is of itself
contrary to charity, as Jerome declares in his commentary on Matt. 5:22, "Whosoever is angry
with his brother," etc. where he says that this is contrary to the love of your neighbor. Therefore
anger is a mortal sin.

On the contrary, A gloss on Ps. 4:5, "Be ye angry and sin not," says: "Anger is venial if it
does not proceed to action."

I answer that, The movement of anger may be inordinate and sinful in two ways, as stated above
(A. 2). First, on the part of the appetible object, as when one desires unjust revenge; and
thus anger is a mortal sin in the point of its genus, because it is contrary to charity and
justice. Nevertheless such like anger may happen to be a venial sin by reason of the imperfection
of the act. This imperfection is considered either in relation to the subject desirous of vengeance,
as when the movement of anger forestalls the judgment of his reason; or in relation to the
desired object, as when one desires to be avenged in a trifling matter, which should be deemed
of no account, so that even if one proceeded to action, it would not be a mortal sin, for instance
by pulling a child slightly by the hair, or by some other like action. Secondly, the movement
of anger may be inordinate in the mode of being angry, for instance, if one be too fiercely
angry inwardly, or if one exceed in the outward signs of anger. In this way anger is not a
mortal sin in the point of its genus; yet it may happen to be a mortal sin, for instance if
through the fierceness of his anger a man fall away from the love of God and his neighbor.

Reply Obj. 1: It does not follow from the passage quoted that all anger is a mortal sin, but
that the foolish are killed spiritually by anger, because, through not checking the movement
of anger by their reason, they fall into mortal sins, for instance by blaspheming God or by
doing injury to their neighbor.

Reply Obj. 2: Our Lord said this of anger, by way of addition to the words of the Law: "Whosoever
shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment" (Matt. 5:21). Consequently our Lord is speaking
here of the movement of anger wherein a man desires the killing or any grave injury of his
neighbor: and should the consent of reason be given to this desire, without doubt it will be
a mortal sin.

Reply Obj. 3: In the case where anger is contrary to charity, it is a mortal sin, but it is
not always so, as appears from what we have said.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 158, Art. 4]

Whether Anger Is the Most Grievous Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger is the most grievous sin. For Chrysostom says [*Hom.
xlviii in Joan.] that "nothing is more repulsive than the look of an angry man, and nothing
uglier than a ruthless* face, and most of all than a cruel soul." [*Severo. The correct text
is Si vero. The translation would then run thus . . . "and nothing uglier." And if his "face
is ugly, how much uglier is his soul!"]. Therefore anger is the most grievous sin.

Obj. 2: Further, the more hurtful a sin is, the worse it would seem to be; since, according
to Augustine (Enchiridion xii), "a thing is said to be evil because it hurts." Now anger is
most hurtful, because it deprives man of his reason, whereby he is master of himself; for Chrysostom
says (Hom. xlviii in Joan.) that "anger differs in no way from madness; it is a demon while
it lasts, indeed more troublesome than one harassed by a demon." Therefore anger is the most
grievous sin.

Obj. 3: Further, inward movements are judged according to their outward effects. Now the effect
of anger is murder, which is a most grievous sin. Therefore anger is a most grievous sin.

On the contrary, Anger is compared to hatred as the mote to the beam; for Augustine says in
his Rule (Ep. ccxi): "Lest anger grow into hatred and a mote become a beam." Therefore anger
is not the most grievous sin.

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 1, 2), the inordinateness of anger is considered in a twofold
respect, namely with regard to an undue object, and with regard to an undue mode of being angry.
As to the appetible object which it desires, anger would seem to be the least of sins, for
anger desires the evil of punishment for some person, under the aspect of a good that is vengeance.
Hence on the part of the evil which it desires the sin of anger agrees with those sins which
desire the evil of our neighbor, such as envy and hatred; but while hatred desires absolutely
another's evil as such, and the envious man desires another's evil through desire of his own
glory, the angry man desires another's evil under the aspect of just revenge. Wherefore it
is evident that hatred is more grievous than envy, and envy than anger: since it is worse to
desire evil as an evil, than as a good; and to desire evil as an external good such as honor
or glory, than under the aspect of the rectitude of justice. On the part of the good, under
the aspect of which the angry man desires an evil, anger concurs with the sin of concupiscence
that tends to a good. In this respect again, absolutely speaking, the sin of anger is apparently
less grievous than that of concupiscence, according as the good of justice, which the angry
man desires, is better than the pleasurable or useful good which is desired by the subject
of concupiscence. Wherefore the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 4) that "the incontinent in desire
is more disgraceful than the incontinent in anger." Hence Gregory says (Moral. v, 45): "The
heart goaded by the pricks of anger is convulsed, the body trembles, the tongue entangles itself,
the face is inflamed, the eyes are enraged and fail utterly to recognize those whom we know:
the tongue makes sounds indeed, but there is no sense in its utterance."

Reply Obj. 1: Chrysostom is alluding to the repulsiveness of the outward gestures which result
from the impetuousness of anger.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument considers the inordinate movement of anger, that results from its
impetuousness, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: Murder results from hatred and envy no less than from anger: yet anger is less
grievous, inasmuch as it considers the aspect of justice, as stated above.

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 158, Art. 5]

Whether the Philosopher Suitably Assigns the Species of Anger?

Objection 1: It would seem that the species of anger are unsuitably assigned by the Philosopher
(Ethic. iv, 5) where he says that some angry persons are "choleric," some "sullen," and some
"ill-tempered" or "stern." According to him, a person is said to be "sullen" whose anger "is
appeased with difficulty and endures a long time." But this apparently pertains to the circumstance
of time. Therefore it seems that anger can be differentiated specifically in respect also of
the other circumstances.

Obj. 2: Further, he says (Ethic. iv, 5) that "ill-tempered" or "stern" persons "are those whose
anger is not appeased without revenge, or punishment." Now this also pertains to the unquenchableness
of anger. Therefore seemingly the ill-tempered is the same as bitterness.

Obj. 3: Further, our Lord mentions three degrees of anger, when He says (Matt. But these degrees
are not referable to the aforesaid species. Therefore it seems that the above division of anger
is not fitting.

On the contrary, Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius, De Nat. Hom. xxi] says "there are three species
of irascibility," namely, "the anger which is called wrath [*Fellea, i.e. like gall. But in
I-II, Q. 46, A. 8, St. Thomas quoting the same authority has Cholos which we render 'wrath'],"
and "ill-will" which is a disease of the mind, and "rancour." Now these three seem to coincide
with the three aforesaid. For "wrath" he describes as "having beginning and movement," and
the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 5) ascribes this to "choleric" persons: "ill-will" he describes
as "an anger that endures and grows old," and this the Philosopher ascribes to "sullenness";
while he describes "rancour" as "reckoning the time for vengeance," which tallies with the
Philosopher's description of the "ill-tempered." The same division is given by Damascene (De
Fide Orth. ii, 16). Therefore the aforesaid division assigned by the Philosopher is not unfitting.

I answer that, The aforesaid distinction may be referred either to the passion, or to the sin
itself of anger. We have already stated when treating of the passions (I-II, Q. 46, A. 8) how
it is to be applied to the passion of anger. And it would seem that this is chiefly what Gregory
of Nyssa and Damascene had in view. Here, however, we have to take the distinction of these
species in its application to the sin of anger, and as set down by the Philosopher.

For the inordinateness of anger may be considered in relation to two things. First, in relation
to the origin of anger, and this regards "choleric" persons, who are angry too quickly and
for any slight cause. Secondly, in relation to the duration of anger, for that anger endures
too long; and this may happen in two ways. In one way, because the cause of anger, to wit,
the inflicted injury, remains too long in a man's memory, the result being that it gives rise
to a lasting displeasure, wherefore he is "grievous" and "sullen" to himself. In another way,
it happens on the part of vengeance, which a man seeks with a stubborn desire: this applies
to "ill-tempered" or "stern" people, who do not put aside their anger until they have inflicted
punishment.

Reply Obj. 1: It is not time, but a man's propensity to anger, or his pertinacity in anger,
that is the chief point of consideration in the aforesaid species.

Reply Obj. 2: Both "sullen" and "ill-tempered" people have a long-lasting anger, but for different
reasons. For a "sullen" person has an abiding anger on account of an abiding displeasure, which
he holds locked in his breast; and as he does not break forth into the outward signs of anger,
others cannot reason him out of it, nor does he of his own accord lay aside his anger, except
his displeasure wear away with time and thus his anger cease. On the other hand, the anger
of "ill-tempered" persons is long-lasting on account of their intense desire for revenge, so
that it does not wear out with time, and can be quelled only by revenge.

Reply Obj. 3: The degrees of anger mentioned by our Lord do not refer to the different species
of anger, but correspond to the course of the human act [*Cf. I-II, Q. 46, A. 8, Obj. 3]. For
the first degree is an inward conception, and in reference to this He says: "Whosoever is angry
with his brother." The second degree is when the anger is manifested by outward signs, even
before it breaks out into effect; and in reference to this He says: "Whosoever shall say to
his brother, Raca!" which is an angry exclamation. The third degree is when the sin conceived
inwardly breaks out into effect. Now the effect of anger is another's hurt under the aspect
of revenge; and the least of hurts is that which is done by a mere word; wherefore in reference
to this He says: "Whosoever shall say to his brother Thou fool!" Consequently it is clear that
the second adds to the first, and the third to both the others; so that, if the first is a
mortal sin, in the case referred to by our Lord, as stated above (A. 3, ad 2), much more so
are the others. Wherefore some kind of condemnation is assigned as corresponding to each one
of them. In the first case "judgment" is assigned, and this is the least severe, for as Augustine
says [*Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 9], "where judgment is to be delivered, there is an opportunity
for defense": in the second case "council" is assigned, "whereby the judges deliberate together
on the punishment to be inflicted": to the third case is assigned "hell-fire," i.e. "decisive
condemnation."

SIXTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 158, Art. 6]

Whether Anger Should Be Reckoned Among the Capital Vices?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger should not be reckoned among the capital sins. For anger
is born of sorrow which is a capital vice known by the name of sloth. Therefore anger should
not be reckoned a capital vice.

Obj. 2: Further, hatred is a graver sin than anger. Therefore it should be reckoned a capital
vice rather than anger.

Obj. 3: Further, a gloss on Prov. 29:22, "An angry [Douay: 'passionate'] man provoketh quarrels,"
says: "Anger is the door to all vices: if it be closed, peace is ensured within to all the
virtues; if it be opened, the soul is armed for every crime." Now no capital vice is the origin
of all sins, but only of certain definite ones. Therefore anger should not be reckoned among
the capital vices.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. xxxi, 45) places anger among the capital vices.

I answer that, As stated above (I-II, Q. 84, A. 3, 4), a capital vice is defined as one from
which many vices arise. Now there are two reasons for which many vices can arise from anger.
The first is on the part of its object which has much of the aspect of desirability, in so
far as revenge is desired under the aspect of just or honest*, which is attractive by its excellence,
as stated above (A. 4). Q. 145, A. 1.] The second is on the part of its impetuosity, whereby
it precipitates the mind into all kinds of inordinate action. Therefore it is evident that
anger is a capital vice.

Reply Obj. 1: The sorrow whence anger arises is not, for the most part, the vice of sloth,
but the passion of sorrow, which results from an injury inflicted.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 118, A. 7; Q. 148, A. 5; Q. 153, A. 4; I-II, Q. 84, A. 4),
it belongs to the notion of a capital vice to have a most desirable end, so that many sins
are committed through the desire thereof. Now anger, which desires evil under the aspect of
good, has a more desirable end than hatred has, since the latter desires evil under the aspect
of evil: wherefore anger is more a capital vice than hatred is.

Reply Obj. 3: Anger is stated to be the door to the vices accidentally, that is by removing
obstacles, to wit by hindering the judgment of reason, whereby man is withdrawn from evil.
It is, however, directly the cause of certain special sins, which are called its daughters.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 158, Art. 7]

Whether Six Daughters Are Fittingly Assigned to Anger?

Objection 1: It would seem that six daughters are unfittingly assigned to anger, namely "quarreling,
swelling of the mind, contumely, clamor, indignation and blasphemy." For blasphemy is reckoned
by Isidore [*QQ. in Deut., qu. xvi] to be a daughter of pride. Therefore it should not be accounted
a daughter of anger.

Obj. 2: Further, hatred is born of anger, as Augustine says in his rule (Ep. ccxi). Therefore
it should be placed among the daughters of anger.

Obj. 3: Further, "a swollen mind" would seem to be the same as pride. Now pride is not the
daughter of a vice, but "the mother of all vices," as Gregory states (Moral. xxxi, 45). Therefore
swelling of the mind should not be reckoned among the daughters of anger.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. xxxi, 45) assigns these daughters to anger.

I answer that, Anger may be considered in three ways. First, as consisting in thought, and
thus two vices arise from anger. One is on the part of the person with whom a man is angry,
and whom he deems unworthy (indignum) of acting thus towards him, and this is called "indignation."
The other vice is on the part of the man himself, in so far as he devises various means of
vengeance, and with such like thoughts fills his mind, according to Job 15:2, "Will a wise
man . . . fill his stomach with burning heat?" And thus we have "swelling of the mind."

Secondly, anger may be considered, as expressed in words: and thus a twofold disorder arises
from anger. One is when a man manifests his anger in his manner of speech, as stated above
(A. 5, ad 3) of the man who says to his brother, "Raca": and this refers to "clamor," which
denotes disorderly and confused speech. The other disorder is when a man breaks out into injurious
words, and if these be against God, it is "blasphemy," if against one's neighbor, it is "contumely."

Thirdly, anger may be considered as proceeding to deeds; and thus anger gives rise to "quarrels,"
by which we are to understand all manner of injuries inflicted on one's neighbor through anger.

Reply Obj. Q. 162, A. 7, ad 2]; and this gives rise to blasphemy. But the blasphemy into which
a man breaks out through a disturbance of the mind, proceeds from anger.

Reply Obj. 2: Although hatred sometimes arises from anger, it has a previous cause, from which
it arises more directly, namely displeasure, even as, on the other hand, love is born of pleasure.
Now through displeasure, a man is moved sometimes to anger, sometimes to hatred. Wherefore
it was fitting to reckon that hatred arises from sloth rather than from anger.

Reply Obj. 3: Swelling of the mind is not taken here as identical with pride, but for a certain
effort or daring attempt to take vengeance; and daring is a vice opposed to fortitude.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 158, Art. 8]

Whether There Is a Vice Opposed to Anger Resulting from Lack of Anger?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is not a vice opposed to anger, resulting from lack of
anger. For no vice makes us like to God. Now by being entirely without anger, a man becomes
like to God, Who judges "with tranquillity" (Wis. 12:18). Therefore seemingly it is not a vice
to be altogether without anger.

Obj. 2: Further, it is not a vice to lack what is altogether useless. But the movement of anger
is useful for no purpose, as Seneca proves in the book he wrote on anger (De Ira i, 9, seqq.).
Therefore it seems that lack of anger is not a vice.

Obj. 3: Further, according to Dionysius (Div. Nom. iv), "man's evil is to be without reason."
Now the judgment of reason remains unimpaired, if all movement of anger be done away. Therefore
no lack of anger amounts to a vice. For unreasonable patience is the hotbed of many vices,
it fosters negligence, and incites not only the wicked but even the good to do wrong."

I answer that, Anger may be understood in two ways. In one way, as a simple movement of the
will, whereby one inflicts punishment, not through passion, but in virtue of a judgment of
the reason: and thus without doubt lack of anger is a sin. For anger, properly speaking, denotes
a movement of passion": and when a man is angry with reason, his anger is no longer from passion:
wherefore he is said to judge, not to be angry. In another way anger is taken for a movement
of the sensitive appetite, which is with passion resulting from a bodily transmutation. This
movement is a necessary sequel, in man, to the movement of his will, since the lower appetite
necessarily follows the movement of the higher appetite, unless there be an obstacle. Hence
the movement of anger in the sensitive appetite cannot be lacking altogether, unless the movement
of the will be altogether lacking or weak. Consequently lack of the passion of anger is also
a vice, even as the lack of movement in the will directed to punishment by the judgment of reason.

Reply Obj. 1: He that is entirely without anger when he ought to be angry, imitates God as
to lack of passion, but not as to God's punishing by judgment.

Reply Obj. 2: The passion of anger, like all other movements of the sensitive appetite, is
useful, as being conducive to the more prompt execution [*Cf. I-II, Q. 24, A. 3] of reason's
dictate: else, the sensitive appetite in man would be to no purpose, whereas "nature does nothing
without purpose" [*Aristotle, De Coelo i, 4].

Reply Obj. 3: When a man acts inordinately, the judgment of his reason is cause not only of
the simple movement of the will but also of the passion in the sensitive appetite, as stated
above. Wherefore just as the removal of the effect is a sign that the cause is removed, so
the lack of anger is a sign that the judgment of reason is lacking.

QUESTION 159

OF CRUELTY (In Two Articles)

We must now consider cruelty, under which head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether cruelty is opposed to clemency?

(2) Of its comparison with savagery or brutality.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 159, Art. 1]

Whether Cruelty Is Opposed to Clemency?

Objection 1: It would seem that cruelty is not opposed to clemency. For Seneca says (De Clementia
ii, 4) that "those are said to be cruel who exceed in punishing," which is contrary to justice.
Now clemency is reckoned a part, not of justice but of temperance. Therefore apparently cruelty
is not opposed to clemency.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Jer. 6:23): "They are cruel, and will have no mercy"; so that
cruelty would seem opposed to mercy. Now mercy is not the same as clemency, as stated above
(Q. 157, A. 4, ad 3). Therefore cruelty is not opposed to clemency.

Obj. 3: Further, clemency is concerned with the infliction of punishment, as stated above (Q.
157, A. 1): whereas cruelty applies to the withdrawal of beneficence, according to Prov. 11:17,
"But he that is cruel casteth off even his own kindred." Therefore cruelty is not opposed to
clemency.

On the contrary, Seneca says (De Clementia ii, 4) that "the opposite of clemency is cruelty,
which is nothing else but hardness of heart in exacting punishment."

I answer that, Cruelty apparently takes its name from cruditas (rawness). Now just as things
when cooked and prepared are wont to have an agreeable and sweet savor, so when raw they have
a disagreeable and bitter taste. Now it has been stated above (Q. 157, A. 3, ad 1; A. 4, ad
3) that clemency denotes a certain smoothness or sweetness of soul, whereby one is inclined
to mitigate punishment. Hence cruelty is directly opposed to clemency.

Reply Obj. 1: Just as it belongs to equity to mitigate punishment according to reason, while
the sweetness of soul which inclines one to this belongs to clemency: so too, excess in punishing,
as regards the external action, belongs to injustice; but as regards the hardness of heart,
which makes one ready to increase punishment, belongs to cruelty.

Reply Obj. 2: Mercy and clemency concur in this, that both shun and recoil from another's unhappiness,
but in different ways. For it belongs to mercy [*Cf. Q. 30, A. 1] to relieve another's unhappiness
by a beneficent action, while it belongs to clemency to mitigate another's unhappiness by the
cessation of punishment. And since cruelty denotes excess in exacting punishment, it is more
directly opposed to clemency than to mercy; yet on account of the mutual likeness of these
virtues, cruelty is sometimes taken for mercilessness.

Reply Obj. 3: Cruelty is there taken for mercilessness, which is lack of beneficence. We may
also reply that withdrawal of beneficence is in itself a punishment.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 159, Art. 2]

Whether Cruelty Differs from Savagery or Brutality?

Objection 1: It would seem that cruelty differs not from savagery or brutality. For seemingly
one vice is opposed in one way to one virtue. Now both savagery and cruelty are opposed to
clemency by way of excess. Therefore it would seem that savagery and cruelty are the same.

Obj. 2: Further, Isidore says (Etym. x) that "severity is as it were savagery with verity,
because it holds to justice without attending to piety": so that savagery would seem to exclude
that mitigation of punishment in delivering judgment which is demanded by piety. Now this has
been stated to belong to cruelty (A. 1, ad 1). Therefore cruelty is the same as savagery.

Obj. 3: Further, just as there is a vice opposed to a virtue by way of excess, so is there
a vice opposed to it by way of deficiency, which latter is opposed both to the virtue which
is the mean, and to the vice which is in excess. Now the same vice pertaining to deficiency
is opposed to both cruelty and savagery, namely remission or laxity. For Gregory says (Moral.
xx, 5): "Let there be love, but not that which enervates, let there be severity, but without
fury, let there be zeal without unseemly savagery, let there be piety without undue clemency."
Therefore savagery is the same as cruelty.

On the contrary, Seneca says (De Clementia ii, 4) that "a man who is angry without being hurt,
or with one who has not offended him, is not said to be cruel, but to be brutal or savage."

I answer that, "Savagery" and "brutality" take their names from a likeness to wild beasts which
are also described as savage. For animals of this kind attack man that they may feed on his
body, and not for some motive of justice the consideration of which belongs to reason alone.
Wherefore, properly speaking, brutality or savagery applies to those who in inflicting punishment
have not in view a default of the person punished, but merely the pleasure they derive from
a man's torture. Consequently it is evident that it is comprised under bestiality: for such
like pleasure is not human but bestial, and resulting as it does either from evil custom, or
from a corrupt nature, as do other bestial emotions. On the other hand, cruelty not only regards
the default of the person punished, but exceeds in the mode of punishing: wherefore cruelty
differs from savagery or brutality, as human wickedness differs from bestiality, as stated
in Ethic. vii, 5.

Reply Obj. 1: Clemency is a human virtue; wherefore directly opposed to it is cruelty which
is a form of human wickedness. But savagery or brutality is comprised under bestiality, wherefore
it is directly opposed not to clemency, but to a more excellent virtue, which the Philosopher
(Ethic. vii, 5) calls "heroic" or "god-like," which according to us, would seem to pertain
to the gifts of the Holy Ghost. Consequently we may say that savagery is directly opposed to
the gift of piety.

Reply Obj. 2: A severe man is not said to be simply savage, because this implies a vice; but
he is said to be "savage as regards the truth," on account of some likeness to savagery which
is not inclined to mitigate punishment.

Reply Obj. 3: Remission of punishment is not a vice, except it disregard the order of justice,
which requires a man to be punished on account of his offense, and which cruelty exceeds. On
the other hand, cruelty disregards this order altogether. Wherefore remission of punishment
is opposed to cruelty, but not to savagery.

QUESTION 160

OF MODESTY (In Two Articles)

We must now consider modesty: and (1) Modesty in general; (2) Each of its species. Under the
first head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether modesty is a part of temperance?

(2) What is the matter of modesty?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 160, Art. 1]

Whether Modesty Is a Part of Temperance?

Objection 1: It would seem that modesty is not a part of temperance. For modesty is denominated
from mode. Now mode is requisite in every virtue: since virtue is directed to good; and "good,"
according to Augustine (De Nat. Boni 3), "consists in mode, species, and order." Therefore
modesty is a general virtue, and consequently should not be reckoned a part of temperance.

Obj. 2: Further, temperance would seem to be deserving of praise chiefly on account of its
moderation. Now this gives modesty its name. Therefore modesty is the same as temperance, and
not one of its parts.

Obj. Now admonishing wrong-doers is an act of justice or of charity, as stated above (Q. 33, A. 1).

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 141, A. 4; Q. 157, A. 3), temperance brings moderation into
those things wherein it is most difficult to be moderate, namely the concupiscences of pleasures
of touch. Now whenever there is a special virtue about some matter of very great moment, there
must needs be another virtue about matters of lesser import: because the life of man requires
to be regulated by the virtues with regard to everything: thus it was stated above (Q. 134,
A. 3, ad 1), that while magnificence is about great expenditure, there is need in addition
for liberality, which is concerned with ordinary expenditure. Hence there is need for a virtue
to moderate other lesser matters where moderation is not so difficult. This virtue is called
modesty, and is annexed to temperance as its principal.

Reply Obj. 1: When a name is common to many it is sometimes appropriated to those of the lowest
rank; thus the common name of angel is appropriated to the lowest order of angels. In the same
way, mode which is observed by all virtues in common, is specially appropriated to the virtue
which prescribes the mode in the slightest things.

Reply Obj. 2: Some things need tempering on account of their strength, thus we temper strong
wine. But moderation is necessary in all things: wherefore temperance is more concerned with
strong passions, and modesty about weaker passions.

Reply Obj. 3: Modesty is to be taken there for the general moderation which is necessary in
all virtues.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 160, Art. 2]

Whether Modesty Is Only About Outward Actions?

Objection 1: It would seem that modesty is only about outward actions. For the inward movements
of the passions cannot be known to other persons. Yet the Apostle enjoins (Phil. 4:5): "Let
your modesty be known to all men." Therefore modesty is only about outward actions.

Obj. 2: Further, the virtues that are about the passions are distinguished from justice which
is about operations. Now modesty is seemingly one virtue. Therefore, if it be about outward
works, it will not be concerned with inward passions.

Obj. 3: Further, no one same virtue is both about things pertaining to the appetite--which
is proper to the moral virtues--and about things pertaining to knowledge--which is proper to
the intellectual virtues--and again about things pertaining to the irascible and concupiscible
faculties. Therefore, if modesty be one virtue, it cannot be about all these things.

On the contrary, In all these things it is necessary to observe the "mode" whence modesty takes
its name. Therefore modesty is about all of them.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), modesty differs from temperance, in that temperance
moderates those matters where restraint is most difficult, while modesty moderates those that
present less difficulty. Authorities seem to have had various opinions about modesty. For wherever
they found a special kind of good or a special difficulty of moderation, they withdrew it from
the province of modesty, which they confined to lesser matters. Now it is clear to all that
the restraint of pleasures of touch presents a special difficulty: wherefore all distinguished
temperance from modesty.

In addition to this, moreover, Tully (De Invent. Rhet. ii, 54) considered that there was a
special kind of good in the moderation of punishment; wherefore he severed clemency also from
modesty, and held modesty to be about the remaining ordinary matters that require moderation.
These seemingly are of four kinds. One is the movement of the mind towards some excellence,
and this is moderated by humility. The second is the desire of things pertaining to knowledge,
and this is moderated by studiousness which is opposed to curiosity. The third regards bodily
movements and actions, which require to be done becomingly and honestly [*Cf. Q. 145, A. 1],
whether we act seriously or in play. The fourth regards outward show, for instance in dress
and the like.

To some of these matters, however, other authorities appointed certain special virtues: thus
Andronicus [*De Affectibus] mentions "meekness, simplicity, humility," and other kindred virtues,
of which we have spoken above (Q. 143); while Aristotle (Ethic. ii, 7) assigned eutrapelia
to pleasures in games, as stated above (I-II, Q. 60, A. 5). All these are comprised under modesty
as understood by Tully; and in this way modesty regards not only outward but also inward actions.

Reply Obj. 1: The Apostle speaks of modesty as regarding externals. Nevertheless the moderation
of the inner man may be shown by certain outward signs.

Reply Obj. 2: Various virtues assigned by various authorities are comprised under modesty.
Wherefore nothing prevents modesty from regarding matters which require different virtues.
Yet there is not so great a difference between the various parts of modesty, as there is between
justice, which is about operations, and temperance, which is about passions, because in actions
and passions that present no great difficulty on the part of the matter, but only on the part
of moderation, there is but one virtue, one namely for each kind of moderation.

Wherefore the Reply to the Third Objection also is clear.

QUESTION 161

OF HUMILITY (In Six Articles)

We must consider next the species of modesty: (1) Humility, and pride which is opposed to it;
(2) Studiousness, and its opposite, Curiosity; (3) Modesty as affecting words or deeds; (4)
Modesty as affecting outward attire.

Concerning humility there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether humility is a virtue?

(2) Whether it resides in the appetite, or in the judgment of reason?

(3) Whether by humility one ought to subject oneself to all men?

(4) Whether it is a part of modesty or temperance?

(5) Of its comparison with the other virtues;

(6) Of the degrees of humility.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 161, Art. 1]

Whether Humility Is a Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that humility is not a virtue. For virtue conveys the notion of
a good. But humility conveys the notion of a penal evil, according to Ps. 104:18, "They humbled
his feet in fetters." Therefore humility is not a virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, virtue and vice are mutually opposed. Now humility seemingly denotes a vice,
for it is written (Ecclus. 19:23): "There is one that humbleth himself wickedly." Therefore
humility is not a virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, no virtue is opposed to another virtue. But humility is apparently opposed
to the virtue of magnanimity, which aims at great things, whereas humility shuns them. Therefore
it would seem that humility is not a virtue.

Obj. 4: Further, virtue is "the disposition of that which is perfect" (Phys. vii, text. 17).
But humility seemingly belongs to the imperfect: wherefore it becomes not God to be humble,
since He can be subject to none. Therefore it seems that humility is not a virtue.

Obj. 5: Further, every moral virtue is about actions and passions, according to Ethic. ii,
3. But humility is not reckoned by the Philosopher among the virtues that are about passions,
nor is it comprised under justice which is about actions. Therefore it would seem not to be
a virtue.

On the contrary, Origen commenting on Luke 1:48, "He hath regarded the humility of His handmaid,"
says (Hom. viii in Luc.): "One of the virtues, humility, is particularly commended in Holy
Writ; for our Saviour said: 'Learn of Me, because I am meek, and humble of heart.'"

I answer that, As stated above (I-II, Q. 23, A. 2) when we were treating of the passions, the
difficult good has something attractive to the appetite, namely the aspect of good, and likewise
something repulsive to the appetite, namely the difficulty of obtaining it. In respect of the
former there arises the movement of hope, and in respect of the latter, the movement of despair.
Now it has been stated above (I-II, Q. 61, A. 2) that for those appetitive movements which
are a kind of impulse towards an object, there is need of a moderating and restraining moral
virtue, while for those which are a kind of recoil, there is need, on the part of the appetite,
of a moral virtue to strengthen it and urge it on. Wherefore a twofold virtue is necessary
with regard to the difficult good: one, to temper and restrain the mind, lest it tend to high
things immoderately; and this belongs to the virtue of humility: and another to strengthen
the mind against despair, and urge it on to the pursuit of great things according to right
reason; and this is magnanimity. Therefore it is evident that humility is a virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: As Isidore observes (Etym. x), "a humble man is so called because he is, as it
were, humo acclinis" [*Literally, "bent to the ground"], i.e. inclined to the lowest place.
This may happen in two ways. First, through an extrinsic principle, for instance when one is
cast down by another, and thus humility is a punishment. Secondly, through an intrinsic principle:
and this may be done sometimes well, for instance when a man, considering his own failings,
assumes the lowest place according to his mode: thus Abraham said to the Lord (Gen. 18:27),
"I will speak to my Lord, whereas I am dust and ashes." In this way humility is a virtue. Sometimes,
however, this may be ill-done, for instance when man, "not understanding his honor, compares
himself to senseless beasts, and becomes like to them" (Ps. 48:13).

Reply Obj. 2: As stated (ad 1), humility, in so far as it is a virtue, conveys the notion of
a praiseworthy self-abasement to the lowest place. Now this is sometimes done merely as to
outward signs and pretense: wherefore this is "false humility," of which Augustine says in
a letter (Ep. cxlix) that it is "grievous pride," since to wit, it would seem to aim at excellence
of glory. Sometimes, however, this is done by an inward movement of the soul, and in this way,
properly speaking, humility is reckoned a virtue, because virtue does not consist in externals,
but chiefly in the inward choice of the mind, as the Philosopher states (Ethic. ii, 5).

Reply Obj. 3: Humility restrains the appetite from aiming at great things against right reason:
while magnanimity urges the mind to great things in accord with right reason. Hence it is clear
that magnanimity is not opposed to humility: indeed they concur in this, that each is according
to right reason.

Reply Obj. 4: A thing is said to be perfect in two ways. First absolutely; such a thing contains
no defect, neither in its nature nor in respect of anything else, and thus God alone is perfect.
To Him humility is fitting, not as regards His Divine nature, but only as regards His assumed
nature. Secondly, a thing may be said to be perfect in a restricted sense, for instance in
respect of its nature or state or time. Thus a virtuous man is perfect: although in comparison
with God his perfection is found wanting, according to the word of Isa. 40:17, "All nations
are before Him as if they had no being at all." In this way humility may be competent to every man.

Reply Obj. 5: The Philosopher intended to treat of virtues as directed to civic life, wherein
the subjection of one man to another is defined according to the ordinance of the law, and
consequently is a matter of legal justice. But humility, considered as a special virtue, regards
chiefly the subjection of man to God, for Whose sake he humbles himself by subjecting himself
to others.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 161, Art. 2]

Whether Humility Has to Do with the Appetite?

Objection 1: It would seem that humility concerns, not the appetite but the judgment of reason.
Because humility is opposed to pride. Now pride concerns things pertaining to knowledge: for
Gregory says (Moral. xxxiv, 22) that "pride, when it extends outwardly to the body, is first
of all shown in the eyes": wherefore it is written (Ps. 130:1), "Lord, my heart is not exalted,
nor are my eyes lofty." Now eyes are the chief aids to knowledge. Therefore it would seem that
humility is chiefly concerned with knowledge, whereby one thinks little of oneself.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Virginit. xxxi) that "almost the whole of Christian teaching
is humility." Consequently nothing contained in Christian teaching is incompatible with humility.
Now Christian teaching admonishes us to seek the better things, according to 1 Cor. 12:31,
"Be zealous for the better gifts." Therefore it belongs to humility to restrain not the desire
of difficult things but the estimate thereof.

Obj. 3: Further, it belongs to the same virtue both to restrain excessive movement, and to
strengthen the soul against excessive withdrawal: thus fortitude both curbs daring and fortifies
the soul against fear. Now it is magnanimity that strengthens the soul against the difficulties
that occur in the pursuit of great things. Therefore if humility were to curb the desire of
great things, it would follow that humility is not a distinct virtue from magnanimity, which
is evidently false. Therefore humility is concerned, not with the desire but with the estimate
of great things.

Obj. 4: Further, Andronicus [*De Affectibus] assigns humility to outward show; for he says
that humility is "the habit of avoiding excessive expenditure and parade." Therefore it is
not concerned with the movement of the appetite.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Poenit. [*Serm. cccli]) that "the humble man is one who
chooses to be an abject in the house of the Lord, rather than to dwell in the tents of sinners."
But choice concerns the appetite. Therefore humility has to do with the appetite rather than
with the estimative power.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), it belongs properly to humility, that a man restrain
himself from being borne towards that which is above him. For this purpose he must know his
disproportion to that which surpasses his capacity. Hence knowledge of one's own deficiency
belongs to humility, as a rule guiding the appetite. Nevertheless humility is essentially in
the appetite itself; and consequently it must be said that humility, properly speaking, moderates
the movement of the appetite.

Reply Obj. 1: Lofty eyes are a sign of pride, inasmuch as it excludes respect and fear: for
fearing and respectful persons are especially wont to lower the eyes, as though not daring
to compare themselves with others. But it does not follow from this that humility is essentially
concerned with knowledge.

Reply Obj. 2: It is contrary to humility to aim at greater things through confiding in one's
own powers: but to aim at greater things through confidence in God's help, is not contrary
to humility; especially since the more one subjects oneself to God, the more is one exalted
in God's sight. Hence Augustine says (De Virginit. xxxi): "It is one thing to raise oneself
to God, and another to raise oneself up against God. He that abases himself before Him, him
He raiseth up; he that raises himself up against Him, him He casteth down."

Reply Obj. 3: In fortitude there is the same reason for restraining daring and for strengthening
the soul against fear: since the reason in both cases is that man should set the good of reason
before dangers of death. But the reason for restraining presumptuous hope which pertains to
humility is not the same as the reason for strengthening the soul against despair. Because
the reason for strengthening the soul against despair is the acquisition of one's proper good
lest man, by despair, render himself unworthy of a good which was competent to him; while the
chief reason for suppressing presumptuous hope is based on divine reverence, which shows that
man ought not to ascribe to himself more than is competent to him according to the position
in which God has placed him. Wherefore humility would seem to denote in the first place man's
subjection to God; and for this reason Augustine (De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 4) ascribes humility,
which he understands by poverty of spirit, to the gift of fear whereby man reveres God. Hence
it follows that the relation of fortitude to daring differs from that of humility to hope.
Because fortitude uses daring more than it suppresses it: so that excess of daring is more
like fortitude than lack of daring is. On the other hand, humility suppresses hope or confidence
in self more than it uses it; wherefore excessive self-confidence is more opposed to humility
than lack of confidence is.

Reply Obj. 4: Excess in outward expenditure and parade is wont to be done with a view of boasting,
which is suppressed by humility. Accordingly humility has to do, in a secondary way, with externals,
as signs of the inward movement of the appetite.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 161, Art. 3]

Whether One Ought, by Humility, to Subject Oneself to All Men?

Objection 1: It would seem that one ought not, by humility, to subject oneself to all men.
For, as stated above (A. 2, ad 3), humility consists chiefly in man's subjection to God. Now
one ought not to offer to a man that which is due to God, as is the case with all acts of religious
worship. Therefore, by humility, one ought not to subject oneself to man.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Nat. et Gratia xxxiv): "Humility should take the part of
truth, not of falsehood." Now some men are of the highest rank, who cannot, without falsehood,
subject themselves to their inferiors. Therefore one ought not, by humility, to subject oneself
to all men.

Obj. 3: Further no one ought to do that which conduces to the detriment of another's spiritual
welfare. But if a man subject himself to another by humility, this is detrimental to the person
to whom he subjects himself; for the latter might wax proud, or despise the other. Hence Augustine
says in his Rule (Ep. ccxi): "Lest through excessive humility the superior lose his authority."
Therefore a man ought not, by humility, to subject himself to all.

On the contrary, It is written (Phil. 2:3): "In humility, let each esteem others better than
themselves." Now humility, as stated above (A. 1, ad 5; A. 2, ad 3), properly regards the reverence
whereby man is subject to God. Wherefore every man, in respect of that which is his own, ought
to subject himself to every neighbor, in respect of that which the latter has of God's: but
humility does not require a man to subject what he has of God's to that which may seem to be
God's in another. For those who have a share of God's gifts know that they have them, according
to 1 Cor. 2:12: "That we may know the things that are given us from God." Wherefore without
prejudice to humility they may set the gifts they have received from God above those that others
appear to have received from Him; thus the Apostle says (Eph. 3:5): "(The mystery of Christ)
was not known to the sons of men as it is now revealed to His holy apostles." In like manner,
humility does not require a man to subject that which he has of his own to that which his neighbor
has of man's: otherwise each one would have to esteem himself a greater sinner than anyone
else: whereas the Apostle says without prejudice to humility (Gal. 2:15): "We by nature are
Jews, and not of the Gentiles, sinners." Nevertheless a man may esteem his neighbor to have
some good which he lacks himself, or himself to have some evil which another has not: by reason
of which, he may subject himself to him with humility.

Reply Obj. 1: We must not only revere God in Himself, but also that which is His in each one,
although not with the same measure of reverence as we revere God. Wherefore we should subject
ourselves with humility to all our neighbors for God's sake, according to 1 Pet. 2:13, "Be
ye subject . . . to every human creature for God's sake"; but to God alone do we owe the worship
of latria.

Reply Obj. 2: If we set what our neighbor has of God's above that which we have of our own,
we cannot incur falsehood. Wherefore a gloss [*St. Augustine, QQ. lxxxiii, qu. 71] on Phil.
2:3, "Esteem others better than themselves," says: "We must not esteem by pretending to esteem;
but we should in truth think it possible for another person to have something that is hidden
to us and whereby he is better than we are, although our own good whereby we are apparently
better than he, be not hidden."

Reply Obj. 3: Humility, like other virtues, resides chiefly inwardly in the soul. Consequently
a man, by an inward act of the soul, may subject himself to another, without giving the other
man an occasion of detriment to his spiritual welfare. This is what Augustine means in his
Rule (Ep. ccxi): "With fear, the superior should prostrate himself at your feet in the sight
of God." On the other hand, due moderation must be observed in the outward acts of humility
even as of other virtues, lest they conduce to the detriment of others. If, however, a man
does as he ought, and others take therefrom an occasion of sin, this is not imputed to the
man who acts with humility; since he does not give scandal, although others take it.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 161, Art. 4]

Whether Humility Is a Part of Modesty or Temperance?

Objection 1: It would seem that humility is not a part of modesty or temperance. For humility
regards chiefly the reverence whereby one is subject to God, as stated above (A. 3). Now it
belongs to a theological virtue to have God for its object. Therefore humility should be reckoned
a theological virtue rather than a part of temperance or modesty.

Obj. 2: Further, temperance is in the concupiscible, whereas humility would seem to be in the
irascible, just as pride which is opposed to it, and whose object is something difficult. Therefore
apparently humility is not a part of temperance or modesty.

Obj. 3: Further, humility and magnanimity are about the same object, as stated above (A. 1,
ad 3). But magnanimity is reckoned a part, not of temperance but of fortitude, as stated above
(Q. 129, A. 5). Therefore it would seem that humility is not a part of temperance or modesty.

On the contrary, Origen says (Hom. viii super Luc.): "If thou wilt hear the name of this virtue,
and what it was called by the philosophers, know that humility which God regards is the same
as what they called metriotes, i.e. measure or moderation." Now this evidently pertains to
modesty or temperance. Therefore humility is a part of modesty or temperance.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 137, A. 2, ad 1; Q. 157, A. 3, ad 2), in assigning parts
to a virtue we consider chiefly the likeness that results from the mode of the virtue. Now
the mode of temperance, whence it chiefly derives its praise, is the restraint or suppression
of the impetuosity of a passion. Hence whatever virtues restrain or suppress, and the actions
which moderate the impetuosity of the emotions, are reckoned parts of temperance. Now just
as meekness suppresses the movement of anger, so does humility suppress the movement of hope,
which is the movement of a spirit aiming at great things. Wherefore, like meekness, humility
is accounted a part of temperance. For this reason the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 3) says that
a man who aims at small things in proportion to his mode is not magnanimous but "temperate,"
and such a man we may call humble. Moreover, for the reason given above (Q. 160, A. 2), among
the various parts of temperance, the one under which humility is comprised is modesty as understood
by Tully (De Invent. Rhet. ii, 54), inasmuch as humility is nothing else than a moderation
of spirit: wherefore it is written (1 Pet. 3:4): "In the incorruptibility of a quiet and meek
spirit."

Reply Obj. 1: The theological virtues, whose object is our last end, which is the first principle
in matters of appetite, are the causes of all the other virtues. Hence the fact that humility
is caused by reverence for God does not prevent it from being a part of modesty or temperance.

Reply Obj. Consequently, although humility is in the irascible as its subject, it is assigned
as a part of modesty or temperance by reason of its mode.

Reply Obj. 3: Although humility and magnanimity agree as to matter, they differ as to mode,
by reason of which magnanimity is reckoned a part of fortitude, and humility a part of temperance.

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 161, Art. 5]

Whether Humility Is the Greatest of the Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that humility is the greatest of the virtues. For Chrysostom, expounding
the story of the Pharisee and the publican (Luke 18), says [*Eclog. hom. vii de Humil. Animi.]
that "if humility is such a fleet runner even when hampered by sin that it overtakes the justice
that is the companion of pride, whither will it not reach if you couple it with justice? It
will stand among the angels by the judgment seat of God." Hence it is clear that humility is
set above justice. Now justice is either the most exalted of all the virtues, or includes all
virtues, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. v, 1). Therefore humility is the greatest of
the virtues.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Verb. Dom., Serm. [*S. 10, C. 1]): "Are you thinking of
raising the great fabric of spirituality? Attend first of all to the foundation of humility."
Now this would seem to imply that humility is the foundation of all virtue. Therefore apparently
it is greater than the other virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, the greater virtue deserves the greater reward. Now the greatest reward is
due to humility, since "he that humbleth himself shall be exalted" (Luke 14:11). Therefore
humility is the greatest of virtues.

Obj. 4: Further, according to Augustine (De Vera Relig. 16), "Christ's whole life on earth
was a lesson in moral conduct through the human nature which He assumed." Now He especially
proposed His humility for our example, saying (Matt. 11:29): "Learn of Me, because I am meek
and humble of heart." Moreover, Gregory says (Pastor. iii, 1) that the "lesson proposed to
us in the mystery of our redemption is the humility of God." Therefore humility would seem
to be the greatest of virtues.

On the contrary, Charity is set above all the virtues, according to Col. 3:14, "Above all .
. . things have charity." Therefore humility is not the greatest of virtues.

I answer that, The good of human virtue pertains to the order of reason: which order is considered
chiefly in reference to the end: wherefore the theological virtues are the greatest because
they have the last end for their object. Secondarily, however, it is considered in reference
to the ordering of the means to the end. This ordinance, as to its essence, is in the reason
itself from which it issues, but by participation it is in the appetite ordered by the reason;
and this ordinance is the effect of justice, especially of legal justice. Now humility makes
a man a good subject to ordinance of all kinds and in all matters; while every other virtue
has this effect in some special matter. Therefore after the theological virtues, after the
intellectual virtues which regard the reason itself, and after justice, especially legal justice,
humility stands before all others.

Reply Obj. 1: Humility is not set before justice, but before that justice which is coupled
with pride, and is no longer a virtue; even so, on the other hand, sin is pardoned through
humility: for it is said of the publican (Luke 18:14) that through the merit of his humility
"he went down into his house justified." Hence Chrysostom says [*De incompr. Nat. Dei, Hom.
v]: "Bring me a pair of two-horse chariots: in the one harness pride with justice, in the other
sin with humility: and you will see that sin outrunning justice wins not by its own strength,
but by that of humility: while you will see the other pair beaten, not by the weakness of justice,
but by the weight and size of pride."

Reply Obj. 2: Just as the orderly assembly of virtues is, by reason of a certain likeness,
compared to a building, so again that which is the first step in the acquisition of virtue
is likened to the foundation, which is first laid before the rest of the building. Now the
virtues are in truth infused by God. Wherefore the first step in the acquisition of virtue
may be understood in two ways. First by way of removing obstacles: and thus humility holds
the first place, inasmuch as it expels pride, which "God resisteth," and makes man submissive
and ever open to receive the influx of Divine grace. Hence it is written (James 4:6): "God
resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble." In this sense humility is said to be
the foundation of the spiritual edifice. Secondly, a thing is first among virtues directly,
because it is the first step towards God. Now the first step towards God is by faith, according
to Heb. 11:6, "He that cometh to God must believe." In this sense faith is the foundation in
a more excellent way than humility.

Reply Obj. 3: To him that despises earthly things, heavenly things are promised: thus heavenly
treasures are promised to those who despise earthly riches, according to Matt. 6:19, 20, "Lay
not up to yourselves treasures on earth . . . but lay up to yourselves treasures in heaven."
Likewise heavenly consolations are promised to those who despise worldly joys, according to
Matt. 4:5, "Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted." In the same way spiritual
uplifting is promised to humility, not that humility alone merits it, but because it is proper
to it to despise earthly uplifting. Wherefore Augustine says (De Poenit. [*Serm. cccli]): "Think
not that he who humbles himself remains for ever abased, for it is written: 'He shall be exalted.'
And do not imagine that his exaltation in men's eyes is effected by bodily uplifting."

Reply Obj. 4: The reason why Christ chiefly proposed humility to us, was because it especially
removes the obstacle to man's spiritual welfare consisting in man's aiming at heavenly and
spiritual things, in which he is hindered by striving to become great in earthly things. Hence
our Lord, in order to remove an obstacle to our spiritual welfare, showed by giving an example
of humility, that outward exaltation is to be despised. Thus humility is, as it were, a disposition
to man's untrammeled access to spiritual and divine goods. Accordingly as perfection is greater
than disposition, so charity, and other virtues whereby man approaches God directly, are greater
than humility.

SIXTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 161, Art. 6]

Whether Twelve Degrees of Humility Are Fittingly Distinguished in the Rule of the Blessed Benedict?

Objection 1: It would seem that the twelve degrees of humility that are set down in the Rule
of the Blessed Benedict [*St. Thomas gives these degrees in the reverse order to that followed
by St. Benedict] are unfittingly distinguished. The first is to be "humble not only in heart,
but also to show it in one's very person, one's eyes fixed on the ground"; the second is "to
speak few and sensible words, and not to be loud of voice"; the third is "not to be easily
moved, and disposed to laughter"; the fourth is "to maintain silence until one is asked"; the
fifth is "to do nothing but to what one is exhorted by the common rule of the monastery"; the
sixth is "to believe and acknowledge oneself viler than all"; the seventh is "to think oneself
worthless and unprofitable for all purposes"; the eighth is "to confess one's sin"; the ninth
is "to embrace patience by obeying under difficult and contrary circumstances"; the tenth is
"to subject oneself to a superior"; the eleventh is "not to delight in fulfilling one's own
desires"; the twelfth is "to fear God and to be always mindful of everything that God has commanded."
For among these there are some things pertaining to the other virtues, such as obedience and
patience. Again there are some that seem to involve a false opinion--and this is inconsistent
with any virtue--namely to declare oneself more despicable than all men, and to confess and
believe oneself to be in all ways worthless and unprofitable. Therefore these are unfittingly
placed among the degrees of humility.

Obj. 2: Further, humility proceeds from within to externals, as do other virtues. Therefore
in the aforesaid degrees, those which concern outward actions are unfittingly placed before
those which pertain to inward actions.

Obj. 3: Further, Anselm (De Simil. ci, seqq.) gives seven degrees of humility, the first of
which is "to acknowledge oneself contemptible"; the second, "to grieve for this"; the third,
"to confess it"; the fourth, "to convince others of this, that is to wish them to believe it";
the fifth, "to bear patiently that this be said of us"; the sixth, "to suffer oneself to be
treated with contempt"; the seventh, "to love being thus treated." Therefore the aforesaid
degrees would seem to be too numerous.

Obj. 4: Further, a gloss on Matt. 3:15 says: "Perfect humility has three degrees. The first
is to subject ourselves to those who are above us, and not to set ourselves above our equals:
this is sufficient. The second is to submit to our equals, and not to set ourselves before
our inferiors; this is called abundant humility. The third degree is to subject ourselves to
inferiors, and in this is perfect righteousness." Therefore the aforesaid degrees would seem
to be too numerous.

Obj. 5: Further, Augustine says (De Virginit. xxxi): "The measure of humility is apportioned
to each one according to his rank. It is imperiled by pride, for the greater a man is the more
liable is he to be entrapped." Now the measure of a man's greatness cannot be fixed according
to a definite number of degrees. Therefore it would seem that it is not possible to assign
the aforesaid degrees to humility.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2) humility has essentially to do with the appetite, in
so far as a man restrains the impetuosity of his soul, from tending inordinately to great things:
yet its rule is in the cognitive faculty, in that we should not deem ourselves to be above
what we are. Also, the principle and origin of both these things is the reverence we bear to
God. Now the inward disposition of humility leads to certain outward signs in words, deeds,
and gestures, which manifest that which is hidden within, as happens also with the other virtues.
For "a man is known by his look, and a wise man, when thou meetest him, by his countenance"
(Ecclus. 19:26). Wherefore the aforesaid degrees of humility include something regarding the
root of humility, namely the twelfth degree, "that a man fear God and bear all His commandments
in mind."

Again, they include certain things with regard to the appetite, lest one aim inordinately at
one's own excellence. This is done in three ways. First, by not following one's own will, and
this pertains to the eleventh degree; secondly, by regulating it according to one's superior
judgment, and this applies to the tenth degree; thirdly, by not being deterred from this on
account of the difficulties and hardships that come in our way, and this belongs to the ninth
degree.

Certain things also are included referring to the estimate a man forms in acknowledging his
own deficiency, and this in three ways. First by acknowledging and avowing his own shortcomings;
this belongs to the eighth degree: secondly, by deeming oneself incapable of great things,
and this pertains to the seventh degree: thirdly, that in this respect one should put others
before oneself, and this belongs to the sixth degree.

Again, some things are included that refer to outward signs. One of these regards deeds, namely
that in one's work one should not depart from the ordinary way; this applies to the fifth degree.
Two others have reference to words, namely that one should not be in a hurry to speak, which
pertains to the fourth degree, and that one be not immoderate in speech, which refers to the
second. The others have to do with outward gestures, for instance in restraining haughty looks,
which regards the first, and in outwardly checking laughter and other signs of senseless mirth,
and this belongs to the third degree.

Reply Obj. 1: It is possible, without falsehood, to deem and avow oneself the most despicable
of men, as regards the hidden faults which we acknowledge in ourselves, and the hidden gifts
of God which others have. Hence Augustine says (De Virginit. lii): "Bethink you that some persons
are in some hidden way better than you, although outwardly you are better than they." Again,
without falsehood one may avow and believe oneself in all ways unprofitable and useless in
respect of one's own capability, so as to refer all one's sufficiency to God, according to
2 Cor. 3:5, "Not that we are sufficient to think anything of ourselves as of ourselves: but
our sufficiency is from God." And there is nothing unbecoming in ascribing to humility those
things that pertain to other virtues, since, just as one vice arises from another, so, by a
natural sequence, the act of one virtue proceeds from the act of another.

Reply Obj. 2: Man arrives at humility in two ways. First and chiefly by a gift of grace, and
in this way the inner man precedes the outward man. The other way is by human effort, whereby
he first of all restrains the outward man, and afterwards succeeds in plucking out the inward
root. It is according to this order that the degrees of humility are here enumerated.

Reply Obj. 3: All the degrees mentioned by Anselm are reducible to knowledge, avowal, and desire
of one's own abasement. For the first degree belongs to the knowledge of one's own deficiency;
but since it would be wrong for one to love one's own failings, this is excluded by the second
degree. The third and fourth degrees regard the avowal of one's own deficiency; namely that
not merely one simply assert one's failing, but that one convince another of it. The other
three degrees have to do with the appetite, which seeks, not outward excellence, but outward
abasement, or bears it with equanimity, whether it consist of words or deeds. For as Gregory
says (Regist. ii, 10, Ep. 36), "there is nothing great in being humble towards those who treat
us with regard, for even worldly people do this: but we should especially be humble towards
those who make us suffer," and this belongs to the fifth and sixth degrees: or the appetite
may even go so far as lovingly to embrace external abasement, and this pertains to the seventh
degree; so that all these degrees are comprised under the sixth and seventh mentioned above.

Reply Obj. 4: These degrees refer, not to the thing itself, namely the nature of humility,
but to the degrees among men, who are either of higher or lower or of equal degree.

Reply Obj. 5: This argument also considers the degrees of humility not according to the nature
of the thing, in respect of which the aforesaid degrees are assigned, but according to the
various conditions of men.

QUESTION 162

OF PRIDE (In Eight Articles)

We must next consider pride, and (1) pride in general; (2) the first man's sin, which we hold
to have been pride. Under the first head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether pride is a sin?

(2) Whether it is a special vice?

(3) Wherein does it reside as in its subject?

(4) Of its species;

(5) Whether it is a mortal sin?

(6) Whether it is the most grievous of all sins?

(7) Of its relation to other sins;

(8) Whether it should be reckoned a capital vice?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 162, Art. 1]

Whether Pride Is a Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that pride is not a sin. For no sin is the object of God's promise.
For God's promises refer to what He will do; and He is not the author of sin. Now pride is
numbered among the Divine promises: for it is written (Isa. 60:15): "I will make thee to be
an everlasting pride [Douay: 'glory'], a joy unto generation and generation." Therefore pride
is not a sin.

Obj. 2: Further, it is not a sin to wish to be like unto God: for every creature has a natural
desire for this; and especially does this become the rational creature which is made to God's
image and likeness. Now it is said in Prosper's Lib. Sent. 294, that "pride is love of one's
own excellence, whereby one is likened to God who is supremely excellent." Hence Augustine
says (Confess. ii, 6): "Pride imitates exaltedness; whereas Thou alone art God exalted over
all." Therefore pride is not a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, a sin is opposed not only to a virtue but also to a contrary vice, as the
Philosopher states (Ethic. ii, 8). But no vice is found to be opposed to pride. Therefore pride
is not a sin.

On the contrary, It is written (Tob. 4:14): "Never suffer pride to reign in thy mind or in
thy words."

I answer that, Pride (superbia) is so called because a man thereby aims higher (supra) than
he is; wherefore Isidore says (Etym. x): "A man is said to be proud, because he wishes to appear
above (super) what he really is"; for he who wishes to overstep beyond what he is, is proud.
Now right reason requires that every man's will should tend to that which is proportionate
to him. Therefore it is evident that pride denotes something opposed to right reason, and this
shows it to have the character of sin, because according to Dionysius (Div. Nom. iv, 4), "the
soul's evil is to be opposed to reason." Therefore it is evident that pride is a sin.

Reply Obj. 1: Pride (superbia) may be understood in two ways. First, as overpassing (supergreditur)
the rule of reason, and in this sense we say that it is a sin. Secondly, it may simply denominate
"super-abundance"; in which sense any super-abundant thing may be called pride: and it is thus
that God promises pride as significant of super-abundant good. Hence a gloss of Jerome on the
same passage (Isa. 61:6) says that "there is a good and an evil pride"; or "a sinful pride
which God resists, and a pride that denotes the glory which He bestows."

It may also be replied that pride there signifies abundance of those things in which men may
take pride.

Reply Obj. 2: Reason has the direction of those things for which man has a natural appetite;
so that if the appetite wander from the rule of reason, whether by excess or by default, it
will be sinful, as is the case with the appetite for food which man desires naturally. Now
pride is the appetite for excellence in excess of right reason. Wherefore Augustine says (De
Civ. Dei xiv, 13) that pride is the "desire for inordinate exaltation": and hence it is that,
as he asserts (De Civ. Dei xiv, 13; xix, 12), "pride imitates God inordinately: for it hath
equality of fellowship under Him, and wishes to usurp His dominion over our fellow-creatures."

Reply Obj. 3: Pride is directly opposed to the virtue of humility, which, in a way, is concerned
about the same matter as magnanimity, as stated above (Q. 161, A. 1, ad 3). Hence the vice
opposed to pride by default is akin to the vice of pusillanimity, which is opposed by default
to magnanimity. For just as it belongs to magnanimity to urge the mind to great things against
despair, so it belongs to humility to withdraw the mind from the inordinate desire of great
things against presumption. Now pusillanimity, if we take it for a deficiency in pursuing great
things, is properly opposed to magnanimity by default; but if we take it for the mind's attachment
to things beneath what is becoming to a man, it is opposed to humility by default; since each
proceeds from a smallness of mind. In the same way, on the other hand, pride may be opposed
by excess, both to magnanimity and humility, from different points of view: to humility, inasmuch
as it scorns subjection, to magnanimity, inasmuch as it tends to great things inordinately.
Since, however, pride implies a certain elation, it is more directly opposed to humility, even
as pusillanimity, which denotes littleness of soul in tending towards great things, is more
directly opposed to magnanimity.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 162, Art. 2]

Whether Pride Is a Special Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that pride is not a special sin. For Augustine says (De Nat. et
Grat. xxix) that "you will find no sin that is not labelled pride"; and Prosper says (De Vita
Contempl. iii, 2) that "without pride no sin is, or was, or ever will be possible." Therefore
pride is a general sin.

Obj. Therefore every sin is pride.

Obj. 3: Further, every special sin is opposed to a special virtue. But pride is opposed to
all the virtues, for Gregory says (Moral. xxxiv, 23): "Pride is by no means content with the
destruction of one virtue; it raises itself up against all the powers of the soul, and like
an all-pervading and poisonous disease corrupts the whole body"; and Isidore says (Etym. [*De
Summo Bono ii, 38]) that it is "the downfall of all virtues." Therefore pride is not a special sin.

Obj. 4: Further, every special sin has a special matter. Now pride has a general matter, for
Gregory says (Moral. xxxiv, 23) that "one man is proud of his gold, another of his eloquence:
one is elated by mean and earthly things, another by sublime and heavenly virtues." Therefore
pride is not a special but a general sin.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Nat. et Grat. xxix): "If he look into the question carefully,
he will find that, according to God's law, pride is a very different sin from other vices."
Now the genus is not different from its species. Therefore pride is not a general but a special
sin.

I answer that, The sin of pride may be considered in two ways. First with regard to its proper
species, which it has under the aspect of its proper object. In this way pride is a special
sin, because it has a special object: for it is inordinate desire of one's own excellence,
as stated (A. 1, ad 2). Secondly, it may be considered as having a certain influence towards
other sins. In this way it has somewhat of a generic character, inasmuch as all sins may arise
from pride, in two ways. First directly, through other sins being directed to the end of pride
which is one's own excellence, to which may be directed anything that is inordinately desired.
Secondly, indirectly and accidentally as it were, that is by removing an obstacle, since pride
makes a man despise the Divine law which hinders him from sinning, according to Jer. 2:20,
"Thou hast broken My yoke, thou hast burst My bands, and thou saidst: I will not serve."

It must, however, be observed that this generic character of pride admits of the possibility
of all vices arising from pride sometimes, but it does not imply that all vices originate from
pride always. For though one may break the commandments of the Law by any kind of sin, through
contempt which pertains to pride, yet one does not always break the Divine commandments through
contempt, but sometimes through ignorance, and sometimes through weakness: and for this reason
Augustine says (De Nat. et Grat. xxix) that "many things are done amiss which are not done
through pride."

Reply Obj. 1: These words are introduced by Augustine into his book De Nat. et Grat., not as
being his own, but as those of someone with whom he is arguing. Hence he subsequently disproves
the assertion, and shows that not all sins are committed through pride. We might, however,
reply that these authorities must be understood as referring to the outward effect of pride,
namely the breaking of the commandments, which applies to every sin, and not to the inward
act of pride, namely contempt of the commandment. For sin is committed, not always through
contempt, but sometimes through ignorance, sometimes through weakness, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: A man may sometimes commit a sin effectively, but not affectively; thus he who,
in ignorance, slays his father, is a parricide effectively, but not affectively, since he did
not intend it. Accordingly he who breaks God's commandment is said to pride himself against
God, effectively always, but not always affectively.

Reply Obj. 3: A sin may destroy a virtue in two ways. In one way by direct contrariety to a
virtue, and thus pride does not corrupt every virtue, but only humility; even as every special
sin destroys the special virtue opposed to it, by acting counter thereto. In another way a
sin destroys a virtue, by making ill use of that virtue: and thus pride destroys every virtue,
in so far as it finds an occasion of pride in every virtue, just as in everything else pertaining
to excellence. Hence it does not follow that it is a general sin.

Reply Obj. 4: Pride regards a special aspect in its object, which aspect may be found in various
matters: for it is inordinate love of one's excellence, and excellence may be found in various
things.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 162, Art. 3]

Whether the Subject of Pride Is the Irascible Faculty?

Objection 1: It would seem that the subject of pride is not the irascible faculty. For Gregory
says (Moral. xxiii, 17): "A swollen mind is an obstacle to truth, for the swelling shuts out
the light." Now the knowledge of truth pertains, not to the irascible but to the rational faculty.
Therefore pride is not in the irascible.

Obj. 2: Further, Gregory says (Moral. xxiv, 8) that "the proud observe other people's conduct
not so as to set themselves beneath them with humility, but so as to set themselves above them
with pride": wherefore it would seem that pride originates in undue observation. Now observation
pertains not to the irascible but to the rational faculty.

Obj. Now the irascible, since it is a part of the sensitive appetite, cannot extend to God
and things intelligible. Therefore pride cannot be in the irascible.

Obj. 4: Further, as stated in Prosper's Liber Sententiarum, sent. 294, "Pride is love of one's
own excellence." But love is not in the irascible, but in the concupiscible. Therefore pride
is not in the irascible.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. ii, 49) opposes pride to the gift of fear. Now fear belongs
to the irascible. Therefore pride is in the irascible.

I answer that, The subject of any virtue or vice is to be ascertained from its proper object:
for the object of a habit or act cannot be other than the object of the power, which is the
subject of both. Now the proper object of pride is something difficult, for pride is the desire
of one's own excellence, as stated above (AA. 1, 2). Wherefore pride must needs pertain in
some way to the irascible faculty. Now the irascible may be taken in two ways. First in a strict
sense, and thus it is a part of the sensitive appetite, even as anger, strictly speaking, is
a passion of the sensitive appetite. Secondly, the irascible may be taken in a broader sense,
so as to belong also to the intellective appetite, to which also anger is sometimes ascribed.
It is thus that we attribute anger to God and the angels, not as a passion, but as denoting
the sentence of justice pronouncing judgment. Nevertheless the irascible understood in this
broad sense is not distinct from the concupiscible power, as stated above in the First Part
(Q. 59, A. 4; I-II, Q. 82, A. 5, ad 1 and 2).

Consequently if the difficult thing which is the object of pride, were merely some sensible
object, whereto the sensitive appetite might tend, pride would have to be in the irascible
which is part of the sensitive appetite. But since the difficult thing which pride has in view
is common both to sensible and to spiritual things, we must needs say that the subject of pride
is the irascible not only strictly so called, as a part of the sensitive appetite, but also
in its wider acceptation, as applicable to the intellective appetite. Wherefore pride is ascribed
also to the demons.

Reply Obj. 1: Knowledge of truth is twofold. One is purely speculative, and pride hinders this
indirectly by removing its cause. For the proud man subjects not his intellect to God, that
he may receive the knowledge of truth from Him, according to Matt. 11:25, "Thou hast hid these
things from the wise and the prudent," i.e. from the proud, who are wise and prudent in their
own eyes, "and hast revealed them to little ones," i.e. to the humble.

Nor does he deign to learn anything from man, whereas it is written (Ecclus. 6:34): "If thou
wilt incline thy ear, thou shalt receive instruction." The other knowledge of truth is affective,
and this is directly hindered by pride, because the proud, through delighting in their own
excellence, disdain the excellence of truth; thus Gregory says (Moral. xxiii, 17) that "the
proud, although certain hidden truths be conveyed to their understanding, cannot realize their
sweetness: and if they know of them they cannot relish them." Hence it is written (Prov. 11:2):
"Where humility is there also is wisdom."

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 161, AA. 2, 6), humility observes the rule of right reason
whereby a man has true self-esteem. Now pride does not observe this rule of right reason, for
he esteems himself greater than he is: and this is the outcome of an inordinate desire for
his own excellence, since a man is ready to believe what he desires very much, the result being
that his appetite is borne towards things higher than what become him. Consequently whatsoever
things lead a man to inordinate self-esteem lead him to pride: and one of those is the observing
of other people's failings, just as, on the other hand, in the words of Gregory (Moral. xxiii,
17), "holy men, by a like observation of other people's virtues, set others above themselves."
Accordingly the conclusion is not that pride is in the rational faculty, but that one of its
causes is in the reason.

Reply Obj. 3: Pride is in the irascible, not only as a part of the sensitive appetite, but
also as having a more general signification, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 4: According to Augustine (De Civ. Dei xiv, 7, 9), "love precedes all other emotions
of the soul, and is their cause," wherefore it may be employed to denote any of the other emotions.
It is in this sense that pride is said to be "love of one's own excellence," inasmuch as love
makes a man presume inordinately on his superiority over others, and this belongs properly
to pride.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 162, Art. 4]

Whether the Four Species of Pride Are Fittingly Assigned by Gregory?

Objection 1: It seems that the four species of pride are unfittingly assigned by Gregory, who
says (Moral. xxiii, 6): "There are four marks by which every kind of pride of the arrogant
betrays itself; either when they think that their good is from themselves, or if they believe
it to be from above, yet they think that it is due to their own merits; or when they boast
of having what they have not, or despise others and wish to appear the exclusive possessors
of what they have." For pride is a vice distinct from unbelief, just as humility is a distinct
virtue from faith. Now it pertains to unbelief, if a man deem that he has not received his
good from God, or that he has the good of grace through his own merits. Therefore this should
not be reckoned a species of pride.

Obj. 2: Further, the same thing should not be reckoned a species of different genera. Now boasting
is reckoned a species of lying, as stated above (Q. 110, A. 2; Q. 112). Therefore it should
not be accounted a species of pride.

Obj. 3: Further, some other things apparently pertain to pride, which are not mentioned here.
For Jerome [*Reference unknown] says that "nothing is so indicative of pride as to show oneself
ungrateful": and Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 14) that "it belongs to pride to excuse oneself
of a sin one has committed." Again, presumption whereby one aims at having what is above one,
would seem to have much to do with pride. Therefore the aforesaid division does not sufficiently
account for the different species of pride.

Obj. 4: Further, we find other divisions of pride. For Anselm [*Eadmer, De Similit. xxii, seqq.]
divides the uplifting of pride, saying that there is "pride of will, pride of speech, end pride
of deed." Bernard [*De Grad. Humil. et Superb. x, seqq.] also reckons twelve degrees of pride,
namely "curiosity, frivolity of mind, senseless mirth, boasting, singularity, arrogance, presumption,
defense of one's sins, deceitful confession, rebelliousness, license, sinful habit." Now these
apparently are not comprised under the species mentioned by Gregory. Therefore the latter would
seem to be assigned unfittingly.

On the contrary, The authority of Gregory suffices.

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 1, 2, 3), pride denotes immoderate desire of one's own
excellence, a desire, to wit, that is not in accord with right reason. Now it must be observed
that all excellence results from a good possessed. Such a good may be considered in three ways.
First, in itself. For it is evident that the greater the good that one has, the greater the
excellence that one derives from it. Hence when a man ascribes to himself a good greater than
what he has, it follows that his appetite tends to his own excellence in a measure exceeding
his competency: and thus we have the third species of pride, namely "boasting of having what
one has not."

Secondly, it may be considered with regard to its cause, in so far as to have a thing of oneself
is more excellent than to have it of another. Hence when a man esteems the good he has received
of another as though he had it of himself, the result is that his appetite is borne towards
his own excellence immoderately. Now one is cause of one's own good in two ways, efficiently
and meritoriously: and thus we have the first two species of pride, namely "when a man thinks
he has from himself that which he has from God," or "when he believes that which he has received
from above to be due to his own merits."

Thirdly, it may be considered with regard to the manner of having it, in so far as a man obtains
greater excellence through possessing some good more excellently than other men; the result
again being that his appetite is borne inordinately towards his own excellence: and thus we
have the fourth species of pride, which is "when a man despises others and wishes to be singularly
conspicuous."

Reply Obj. 1: A true judgment may be destroyed in two ways. First, universally: and thus in
matters of faith, a true judgment is destroyed by unbelief. Secondly, in some particular matter
of choice, and unbelief does not do this. Thus a man who commits fornication, judges that for
the time being it is good for him to commit fornication; yet he is not an unbeliever, as he
would be, were he to say that universally fornication is good. It is thus in the question in
point: for it pertains to unbelief to assert universally that there is a good which is not
from God, or that grace is given to men for their merits, whereas, properly speaking, it belongs
to pride and not to unbelief, through inordinate desire of one's own excellence, to boast of
one's goods as though one had them of oneself, or of one's own merits.

Reply Obj. 2: Boasting is reckoned a species of lying, as regards the outward act whereby a
man falsely ascribes to himself what he has not: but as regards the inward arrogance of the
heart it is reckoned by Gregory to be a species of pride.

Reply Obj. 3: The ungrateful man ascribes to himself what he has from another: wherefore the
first two species of pride pertain to ingratitude. To excuse oneself of a sin one has committed,
belongs to the third species, since by so doing a man ascribes to himself the good of innocence
which he has not. To aim presumptuously at what is above one, would seem to belong chiefly
to the fourth species, which consists in wishing to be preferred to others.

Reply Obj. 4: The three mentioned by Anselm correspond to the progress of any particular sin:
for it begins by being conceived in thought, then is uttered in word, and thirdly is accomplished
in deed.

The twelve degrees mentioned by Bernard are reckoned by way of opposition to the twelve degrees
of humility, of which we have spoken above (Q. 161, A. 6). For the first degree of humility
is to "be humble in heart, and to show it in one's very person, one's eyes fixed on the ground":
and to this is opposed "curiosity," which consists in looking around in all directions curiously
and inordinately. The second degree of humility is "to speak few and sensible words, and not
to be loud of voice": to this is opposed "frivolity of mind," by which a man is proud of speech.
The third degree of humility is "not to be easily moved and disposed to laughter," to which
is opposed "senseless mirth." The fourth degree of humility is "to maintain silence until one
is asked," to which is opposed "boasting". The fifth degree of humility is "to do nothing but
to what one is exhorted by the common rule of the monastery," to which is opposed "singularity,"
whereby a man wishes to seem more holy than others. The sixth degree of humility is "to believe
and acknowledge oneself viler than all," to which is opposed "arrogance," whereby a man sets
himself above others. The seventh degree of humility is "to think oneself worthless and unprofitable
for all purposes," to which is opposed "presumption," whereby a man thinks himself capable
of things that are above him. The eighth degree of humility is "to confess one's sins," to
which is opposed "defense of one's sins." The ninth degree is "to embrace patience by obeying
under difficult and contrary circumstances," to which is opposed "deceitful confession," whereby
a man being unwilling to be punished for his sins confesses them deceitfully. The tenth degree
of humility is "obedience," to which is opposed "rebelliousness." The eleventh degree of humility
is "not to delight in fulfilling one's own desires"; to this is opposed "license," whereby
a man delights in doing freely whatever he will. The last degree of humility is "fear of God":
to this is opposed "the habit of sinning," which implies contempt of God.

In these twelve degrees not only are the species of pride indicated, but also certain things
that precede and follow them, as we have stated above with regard to humility (Q. 161, A. 6).

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 162, Art. 5]

Whether Pride Is a Mortal Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that pride is not a mortal sin. For a gloss on Ps. 7:4, "O Lord
my God, if I have done this thing," says: "Namely, the universal sin which is pride." Therefore
if pride were a mortal sin, so would every sin be.

Obj. 2: Further, every mortal sin is contrary to charity. But pride is apparently not contrary
to charity, neither as to the love of God, nor as to the love of one's neighbor, because the
excellence which, by pride, one desires inordinately, is not always opposed to God's honor,
or our neighbor's good. Therefore pride is not a mortal sin.

Obj. 3: Further, every mortal sin is opposed to virtue. But pride is not opposed to virtue;
on the contrary, it arises therefrom, for as Gregory says (Moral. xxxiv, 23), "sometimes a
man is elated by sublime and heavenly virtues." Therefore pride is not a mortal sin.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Moral. xxxiv, 23) that "pride is a most evident sign of the
reprobate, and contrariwise, humility of the elect." But men do not become reprobate on account
of venial sins. Therefore pride is not a venial but a mortal sin.

I answer that, Pride is opposed to humility. Now humility properly regards the subjection of
man to God, as stated above (Q. 161, A. 1, ad 5). Hence pride properly regards lack of this
subjection, in so far as a man raises himself above that which is appointed to him according
to the Divine rule or measure, against the saying of the Apostle (2 Cor. 10:13), "But we will
not glory beyond our measure; but according to the measure of the rule which God hath measured
to us." Now it is evident that not to be subject to God is of its very nature a mortal sin,
for this consists in turning away from God: and consequently pride is, of its genus, a mortal
sin. Nevertheless just as in other sins which are mortal by their genus (for instance fornication
and adultery) there are certain motions that are venial by reason of their imperfection (through
forestalling the judgment of reason, and being without its consent), so too in the matter of
pride it happens that certain motions of pride are venial sins, when reason does not consent
to them.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above (A. 2) pride is a general sin, not by its essence but by a kind
of influence, in so far as all sins may have their origin in pride. Hence it does not follow
that all sins are mortal, but only such as arise from perfect pride, which we have stated to
be a mortal sin.

Reply Obj. 2: Pride is always contrary to the love of God, inasmuch as the proud man does not
subject himself to the Divine rule as he ought. Sometimes it is also contrary to the love of
our neighbor; when, namely, a man sets himself inordinately above his neighbor: and this again
is a transgression of the Divine rule, which has established order among men, so that one ought
to be subject to another.

Reply Obj. 3: Pride arises from virtue, not as from its direct cause, but as from an accidental
cause, in so far as a man makes a virtue an occasion for pride. And nothing prevents one contrary
from being the accidental cause of another, as stated in Phys. viii, 1. Hence some are even
proud of their humility.

SIXTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 162, Art. 6]

Whether Pride Is the Most Grievous of Sins?

Objection 1: It would seem that pride is not the most grievous of sins. For the more difficult
a sin is to avoid, the less grievous it would seem to be. Now pride is most difficult to avoid;
for Augustine says in his Rule (Ep. ccxi), "Other sins find their vent in the accomplishment
of evil deeds, whereas pride lies in wait for good deeds to destroy them." Now humility to
which pride is opposed is not the greatest of virtues, as stated above (Q. 61, A. 5). Therefore
the vices that are opposed to greater virtues, such as unbelief, despair, hatred of God, murder,
and so forth, are more grievous sins than pride.

Obj. 3: Further, the greater evil is not punished by a lesser evil. But pride is sometimes
punished by other sins according to Rom. 1:28, where it is stated that on account of their
pride of heart, men of science were delivered "to a reprobate sense, to do those things which
are not convenient." Therefore pride is not the most grievous of sins.

On the contrary, A gloss on Ps. 118:51, "The proud did iniquitously,"    says: "The greatest
sin in man is pride."

I answer that, Two things are to be observed in sin, conversion to a mutable good, and this
is the material part of sin; and aversion from the immutable good, and this gives sin its formal
aspect and complement. Now on the part of the conversion, there is no reason for pride being
the greatest of sins, because uplifting which pride covets inordinately, is not essentially
most incompatible with the good of virtue. But on the part of the aversion, pride has extreme
gravity, because in other sins man turns away from God, either through ignorance or through
weakness, or through desire for any other good whatever; whereas pride denotes aversion from
God simply through being unwilling to be subject to God and His rule. Hence Boethius [*Cf.
Cassian, de Caenob. Inst. xii, 7] says that "while all vices flee from God, pride alone withstands
God"; for which reason it is specially stated (James 4:6) that "God resisteth the proud." Wherefore
aversion from God and His commandments, which is a consequence as it were in other sins, belongs
to pride by its very nature, for its act is the contempt of God. And since that which belongs
to a thing by its nature is always of greater weight than that which belongs to it through
something else, it follows that pride is the most grievous of sins by its genus, because it
exceeds in aversion which is the formal complement of sin.

Reply Obj. 1: A sin is difficult to avoid in two ways. First, on account of the violence of
its onslaught; thus anger is violent in its onslaught on account of its impetuosity; and "still
more difficult is it to resist concupiscence, on account of its connaturality," as stated in
Ethic. ii, 3, 9. A difficulty of this kind in avoiding sin diminishes the gravity of the sin;
because a man sins the more grievously, according as he yields to a less impetuous temptation,
as Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 12, 15).

Secondly, it is difficult to avoid a sin, on account of its being hidden. In this way it is
difficult to avoid pride, since it takes occasion even from good deeds, as stated (A. 5, ad
3). Hence Augustine says pointedly that it "lies in wait for good deeds"; and it is written
(Ps. 141:4): "In the way wherein I walked, the proud [*Cf. Ps. 139:6, 'The proud have hidden
a net for me.'] [Vulg.: 'they'] have hidden a snare for me." Hence no very great gravity attaches
to the movement of pride while creeping in secretly, and before it is discovered by the judgment
of reason: but once discovered by reason, it is easily avoided, both by considering one's own
infirmity, according to Ecclus. 10:9, "Why is earth and ashes proud?" and by considering God's
greatness, according to Job 15:13, "Why doth thy spirit swell against God?" as well as by considering
the imperfection of the goods on which man prides himself, according to Isa. 40:6, "All flesh
is grass, and all the glory thereof as the flower of the field"; and farther on (Isa. 64:6),
"all our justices" are become "like the rag of a menstruous woman."

Reply Obj. 2: Opposition between a vice and a virtue is inferred from the object, which is
considered on the part of conversion. In this way pride has no claim to be the greatest of
sins, as neither has humility to be the greatest of virtues. But it is the greatest on the
part of aversion, since it brings greatness upon other sins. For unbelief, by the very fact
of its arising out of proud contempt, is rendered more grievous than if it be the outcome of
ignorance or weakness. The same applies to despair and the like.

Reply Obj. 3: Just as in syllogisms that lead to an impossible conclusion one is sometimes
convinced by being faced with a more evident absurdity, so too, in order to overcome their
pride, God punishes certain men by allowing them to fall into sins of the flesh, which though
they be less grievous are more evidently shameful. Hence Isidore says (De Summo Bono ii, 38)
that "pride is the worst of all vices; whether because it is appropriate to those who are of
highest and foremost rank, or because it originates from just and virtuous deeds, so that its
guilt is less perceptible. On the other hand, carnal lust is apparent to all, because from
the outset it is of a shameful nature: and yet, under God's dispensation, it is less grievous
than pride. For he who is in the clutches of pride and feels it not, falls into the lusts of
the flesh, that being thus humbled he may rise from his abasement."

From this indeed the gravity of pride is made manifest. For just as a wise physician, in order
to cure a worse disease, allows the patient to contract one that is less dangerous, so the
sin of pride is shown to be more grievous by the very fact that, as a remedy, God allows men
to fall into other sins.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 162, Art. 7]

Whether Pride Is the First Sin of All?

Objection 1: It would seem that pride is not the first sin of all. For the first is maintained
in all that follows. Now pride does not accompany all sins, nor is it the origin of all: for
Augustine says (De Nat. et Grat. xx) that many things are done "amiss which are not done with
pride." Therefore pride is not the first sin of all.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Ecclus. 10:14) that the "beginning of . . . pride is to fall
off from God." Therefore falling away from God precedes pride.

Obj. 3: Further, the order of sins would seem to be according to the order of virtues. Now,
not humility but faith is the first of all virtues. Therefore pride is not the first sin of all.

Obj. 4: Further, it is written (2 Tim. 3:13): "Evil men and seducers shall grow worse and worse";
so that apparently man's beginning of wickedness is not the greatest of sins. But pride is
the greatest of sins as stated in the foregoing Article. Therefore pride is not the first sin.

Obj. 5: Further, resemblance and pretense come after the reality. Now the Philosopher says
(Ethic. iii, 7) that "pride apes fortitude and daring." Therefore the vice of daring precedes
the vice of pride.

On the contrary, It is written (Ecclus. 10:15): "Pride is the beginning of all sin."

I answer that, The first thing in every genus is that which is essential. Now it has been stated
above (A. 6) that aversion from God, which is the formal complement of sin, belongs to pride
essentially, and to other sins, consequently. Hence it is that pride fulfils the conditions
of a first thing, and is "the beginning of all sins," as stated above (I-II, Q. 84, A. 2),
when we were treating of the causes of sin on the part of the aversion which is the chief part
of sin.

Reply Obj. 1: Pride is said to be "the beginning of all sin," not as though every sin originated
from pride, but because any kind of sin is naturally liable to arise from pride.

Reply Obj. 2: To fall off from God is said to be the beginning of pride, not as though it were
a distinct sin from pride, but as being the first part of pride. For it has been said above
(A. 5) that pride regards chiefly subjection to God which it scorns, and in consequence it
scorns to be subject to a creature for God's sake.

Reply Obj. 3: There is no need for the order of virtues to be the same as that of vices. For
vice is corruptive of virtue. Now that which is first to be generated is the last to be corrupted.
Wherefore as faith is the first of virtues, so unbelief is the last of sins, to which sometimes
man is led by other sins. Hence a gloss on Ps. 136:7, "Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation
thereof," says that "by heaping vice upon vice a man will lapse into unbelief," and the Apostle
says (1 Tim. 1:19) that "some rejecting a good conscience have made shipwreck concerning the
faith."

Reply Obj. 4: Pride is said to be the most grievous of sins because that which gives sin its
gravity is essential to pride. Hence pride is the cause of gravity in other sins. Accordingly
previous to pride there may be certain less grievous sins that are committed through ignorance
or weakness. But among the grievous sins the first is pride, as the cause whereby other sins
are rendered more grievous. And as that which is the first in causing sins is the last in the
withdrawal from sin, a gloss on Ps. 18:13, "I shall be cleansed from the greatest sin," says:
"Namely from the sin of pride, which is the last in those who return to God, and the first
in those who withdraw from God."

Reply Obj. 5: The Philosopher associates pride with feigned fortitude, not that it consists
precisely in this, but because man thinks he is more likely to be uplifted before men, if he
seem to be daring or brave.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 162, Art. 8]

Whether Pride Should Be Reckoned a Capital Vice?

Objection 1: It would seem that pride should be reckoned a capital vice, since Isidore [*Comment.
in Deut. xvi] and Cassian [*De Inst. Caenob. v, 1: Collat. v, 2] number pride among the capital
vices.

Obj. 2: Further, pride is apparently the same as vainglory, since both covet excellence. Now
vainglory is reckoned a capital vice. Therefore pride also should be reckoned a capital vice.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Virginit. xxxi) that "pride begets envy, nor is it ever
without this companion." Now envy is reckoned a capital vice, as stated above (Q. 36, A. 4).
Much more therefore is pride a capital vice.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. xxxi, 45) does not include pride among the capital vices.

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 2, 5, ad 1) pride may be considered in two ways; first
in itself, as being a special sin; secondly, as having a general influence towards all sins.
Now the capital vices are said to be certain special sins from which many kinds of sin arise.
Wherefore some, considering pride in the light of a special sin, numbered it together with
the other capital vices. But Gregory, taking into consideration its general influence towards
all vices, as explained above (A. 2, Obj. 3), did not place it among the capital vices, but
held it to be the "queen and mother of all the vices." Hence he says (Moral. xxxi, 45): "Pride,
the queen of vices, when it has vanquished and captured the heart, forthwith delivers it into
the hands of its lieutenants the seven principal vices, that they may despoil it and produce
vices of all kinds."

This suffices for the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: Pride is not the same as vainglory, but is the cause thereof: for pride covets
excellence inordinately: while vainglory covets the outward show of excellence.

Reply Obj. 3: The fact that envy, which is a capital vice, arises from pride, does not prove
that pride is a capital vice, but that it is still more principal than the capital vices themselves.

QUESTION 163

OF THE FIRST MAN'S SIN (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the first man's sin which was pride: and (1) his sin; (2) its punishment;
(3) the temptation whereby he was led to sin.

Under the first head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether pride was the first man's first sin?

(2) What the first man coveted by sinning?

(3) Whether his sin was more grievous than all other sins?

(4) Which sinned more grievously, the man or the woman?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 163, Art. 1]

Whether Pride Was the First Man's First Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that pride was not the first man's first sin. Now the first man's
first sin is the one by which all men were made sinners in the point of original sin. Therefore
disobedience, and not pride, was the first man's first sin.

Obj. 2: Further, Ambrose says, commenting on Luke 4:3, "And the devil said to Him," that the
devil in tempting Christ observed the same order as in overcoming the first man. Now Christ
was first tempted to gluttony, as appears from Matt. 4:3, where it was said to Him: "If thou
be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread." Therefore the first man's first
sin was not pride but gluttony.

Obj. 3: Further, man sinned at the devil's suggestion. Now the devil in tempting man promised
him knowledge (Gen. 3:5). Therefore inordinateness in man was through the desire of knowledge,
which pertains to curiosity. Therefore curiosity, and not pride, was the first sin.

Obj. 4: Further, a gloss [*St. Augustine, Gen. ad lit. xi] on 1 Tim. 2:14, "The woman being
seduced was in the transgression," says: "The Apostle rightly calls this seduction, for they
were persuaded to accept a falsehood as being true; namely that God had forbidden them to touch
that tree, because He knew that if they touched it, they would be like gods, as though He who
made them men, begrudged them the godhead . . ." Now it pertains to unbelief to believe such
a thing. Now man's first sin is the beginning of all sin, according to Rom. 5:12, "By one man
sin entered into this world." Therefore man's first sin was pride.

I answer that, Many movements may concur towards one sin, and the character of sin attaches
to that one in which inordinateness is first found. And it is evident that inordinateness is
in the inward movement of the soul before being in the outward act of the body; since, as Augustine
says (De Civ. Dei i, 18), the sanctity of the body is not forfeited so long as the sanctity
of the soul remains. Also, among the inward movements, the appetite is moved towards the end
before being moved towards that which is desired for the sake of the end; and consequently
man's first sin was where it was possible for his appetite to be directed to an inordinate
end. Now man was so appointed in the state of innocence, that there was no rebellion of the
flesh against the spirit. Wherefore it was not possible for the first inordinateness in the
human appetite to result from his coveting a sensible good, to which the concupiscence of the
flesh tends against the order of reason. It remains therefore that the first inordinateness
of the human appetite resulted from his coveting inordinately some spiritual good. Now he would
not have coveted it inordinately, by desiring it according to his measure as established by
the Divine rule. Hence it follows that man's first sin consisted in his coveting some spiritual
good above his measure: and this pertains to pride. Therefore it is evident that man's first
sin was pride.

Reply Obj. 1: Man's disobedience to the Divine command was not willed by man for his own sake,
for this could not happen unless one presuppose inordinateness in his will. It remains therefore
that he willed it for the sake of something else. Now the first thing he coveted inordinately
was his own excellence; and consequently his disobedience was the result of his pride. This
agrees with the statement of Augustine, who says (Ad Oros [*Dial. QQ. lxv, qu. 4]) that "man
puffed up with pride obeyed the serpent's prompting, and scorned God's commands."

Reply Obj. 2: Gluttony also had a place in the sin of our first parents. For it is written
(Gen. 3:6): "The woman saw that the tree was good to eat, and fair to the eyes, and delightful
to behold, and she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat." Yet the very goodness and beauty
of the fruit was not their first motive for sinning, but the persuasive words of the serpent,
who said (Gen. 3:5): "Your eyes shall be opened and you shall be as Gods": and it was by coveting
this that the woman fell into pride. Hence the sin of gluttony resulted from the sin of pride.

Reply Obj. 3: The desire for knowledge resulted in our first parents from their inordinate
desire for excellence. Hence the serpent began by saying: "You shall be as Gods," and added:
"Knowing good and evil."

Reply Obj. 4: According to Augustine (Gen. ad lit. xi, 30), "the woman had not believed the
serpent's statement that they were debarred by God from a good and useful thing, were her mind
not already filled with the love of her own power, and a certain proud self-presumption." This
does not mean that pride preceded the promptings of the serpent, but that as soon as the serpent
had spoken his words of persuasion, her mind was puffed up, the result being that she believed
the demon to have spoken truly.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 163, Art. 2]

Whether the First Man's Pride Consisted in His Coveting God's Likeness?

Objection 1: It would seem that the first man's pride did not consist in his coveting the Divine
likeness. For no one sins by coveting that which is competent to him according to his nature.
Now God's likeness is competent to man according to his nature: for it is written (Gen. 1:26):
"Let us make man to our image and likeness." Therefore he did not sin by coveting God's likeness.

Obj. 2: Further, it would seem that man coveted God's likeness in order that he might obtain
knowledge of good and evil: for this was the serpent's suggestion: "You shall be as Gods knowing
good and evil." Now the desire of knowledge is natural to man, according to the saying of the
Philosopher at the beginning of his Metaphysics i, 1: "All men naturally desire knowledge."
Therefore he did not sin by coveting God's likeness.

Obj. 3: Further, no wise man chooses the impossible. Now the first man was endowed with wisdom,
according to Ecclus. 17:5, "He filled them with the knowledge of understanding." Since then
every sin consists in a deliberate act of the appetite, namely choice, it would seem that the
first man did not sin by coveting something impossible. But it is impossible for man to be
like God, according to the saying of Ex. 15:11, "Who is like to Thee among the strong, O Lord?"
Therefore the first man did not sin by coveting God's likeness.

On the contrary, Augustine commenting on Ps. 68:5 [*Enarr. in Ps. 68], "Then did I restore
[Douay: 'pay'] that which I took not away," says: "Adam and Eve wished to rob the Godhead and
they lost happiness."

I answer that, likeness is twofold. One is a likeness of absolute equality [*Cf. I, Q. 93,
A. 1]: and such a likeness to God our first parents did not covet, since such a likeness to
God is not conceivable to the mind, especially of a wise man.

The other is a likeness of imitation, such as is possible for a creature in reference to God,
in so far as the creature participates somewhat of God's likeness according to its measure.
For Dionysius says (Div. Nom. ix): "The same things are like and unlike to God; like, according
as they imitate Him, as far as He can be imitated; unlike, according as an effect falls short
of its cause." Now every good existing in a creature is a participated likeness of the first good.

Wherefore from the very fact that man coveted a spiritual good above his measure, as stated
in the foregoing Article, it follows that he coveted God's likeness inordinately.

It must, however, be observed that the proper object of the appetite is a thing not possessed.
Now spiritual good, in so far as the rational creature participates in the Divine likeness,
may be considered in reference to three things. First, as to natural being: and this likeness
was imprinted from the very outset of their creation, both on man--of whom it is written (Gen.
1:26) that God made man "to His image and likeness"--and on the angel, of whom it is written
(Ezech. 28:12): "Thou wast the seal of resemblance." Secondly, as to knowledge: and this likeness
was bestowed on the angel at his creation, wherefore immediately after the words just quoted,
"Thou wast the seal of resemblance," we read: "Full of wisdom." But the first man, at his creation,
had not yet received this likeness actually but only in potentiality. Thirdly, as to the power
of operation: and neither angel nor man received this likeness actually at the very outset
of his creation, because to each there remained something to be done whereby to obtain happiness.

Accordingly, while both (namely the devil and the first man) coveted God's likeness inordinately,
neither of them sinned by coveting a likeness of nature. But the first man sinned chiefly by
coveting God's likeness as regards "knowledge of good and evil," according to the serpent's
instigation, namely that by his own natural power he might decide what was good, and what was
evil for him to do; or again that he should of himself foreknow what good and what evil would
befall him. Secondarily he sinned by coveting God's likeness as regards his own power of operation,
namely that by his own natural power he might act so as to obtain happiness. Hence Augustine
says (Gen. ad lit. xi, 30) that "the woman's mind was filled with love of her own power." On
the other hand, the devil sinned by coveting God's likeness, as regards power. Wherefore Augustine
says (De Vera Relig. 13) that "he wished to enjoy his own power rather than God's." Nevertheless
both coveted somewhat to be equal to God, in so far as each wished to rely on himself in contempt
of the order of the Divine rule.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument considers the likeness of nature: and man did not sin by coveting
this, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: It is not a sin to covet God's likeness as to knowledge, absolutely; but to covet
this likeness inordinately, that is, above one's measure, this is a sin. Hence Augustine commenting
on Ps. 70:18, "O God, who is like Thee?" says: "He who desires to be of himself, even as God
is of no one, wishes wickedly to be like God. Thus did the devil, who was unwilling to be subject
to Him, and man who refused to be, as a servant, bound by His command."

Reply Obj. 3: This argument considers the likeness of equality.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 163, Art. 7]

Whether the Sin of Our First Parents Was More Grievous Than Other Sins?

Objection 1: It would seem that the sin of our first parents was more grievous than other sins.
For Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 15): "Great was the wickedness in sinning, when it was
so easy to avoid sin." Now it was very easy for our first parents to avoid sin, because they
had nothing within them urging them to sin. Therefore the sin of our first parents was more
grievous than other sins.

Obj. 2: Further, punishment is proportionate to guilt. Now the sin of our first parents was
most severely punished, since by it "death entered into this world," as the Apostle says (Rom.
5:12). Therefore that sin was more grievous than other sins.

Obj. 3: Further, the first in every genus is seemingly the greatest (Metaph. ii, 4 [*Ed. Diel.
i, 1]). Now the sin of our first parents was the first among sins of men. Therefore it was
the greatest. Now our first parents were established on the highest and perfect grade. Therefore
their first sin was not the greatest of all sins.

I answer that, There is a twofold gravity to be observed in sin. one results from the very
species of the sin: thus we say that adultery is a graver sin than simple fornication. The
other gravity of sin results from some circumstance of place, person, or time. The former gravity
is more essential to sin and is of greater moment: hence a sin is said to be grave in respect
of this gravity rather than of the other. Accordingly we must say that the first man's sin
was not graver than all other sins of men, as regards the species of the sin. For though pride,
of its genus, has a certain pre-eminence over other sins, yet the pride whereby one denies
or blasphemes God is greater than the pride whereby one covets God's likeness inordinately,
such as the pride of our first parents, as stated (A. 2).

But if we consider the circumstances of the persons who sinned, that sin was most grave on
account of the perfection of their state. We must accordingly conclude that this sin was most
grievous relatively but not simply.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument considers the gravity of sin as resulting from the person of the
sinner.

Reply Obj. 2: The severity of the punishment awarded to that first sin corresponds to the magnitude
of the sin, not as regards its species but as regards its being the first sin: because it destroyed
the innocence of our original state, and by robbing it of innocence brought disorder upon the
whole human nature.

Reply Obj. 3: Where things are directly subordinate, the first must needs be the greatest.
Such is not the order among sins, for one follows from another accidentally. And thus it does
not follow that the first sin is the greatest.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 163, Art. 4]

Whether Adam's Sin Was More Grievous Than Eve's?

Objection 1: It would seem that Adam's sin was more grievous than Eve's. For it is written
(1 Tim. 2:14): "Adam was not seduced, but the woman being seduced was in the transgression":
and so it would seem that the woman sinned through ignorance, but the man through assured knowledge.
Now the latter is the graver sin, according to Luke 12:47, 48, "That servant who knew the will
of his lord . . . and did not according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes: but
he that knew not, and did things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes." Therefore
Adam's sin was more grievous than Eve's.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Decem Chordis 3 [*Serm. ix; xcvi de Temp.]): "If the man
is the head, he should live better, and give an example of good deeds to his wife, that she
may imitate him." Now he who ought to do better, sins more grievously, if he commit a sin.
Therefore Adam sinned more grievously than Eve.

Obj. 3: Further, the sin against the Holy Ghost would seem to be the most grievous. Now Adam,
apparently, sinned against the Holy Ghost, because while sinning he relied on God's mercy [*Cf.
Q. 21, A. 2, Obj. 3. St. Thomas is evidently alluding to the words of Peter Lombard quoted
there], and this pertains to the sin of presumption. Therefore it seems that Adam sinned more
grievously than Eve.

On the contrary, Punishment corresponds to guilt. Now the woman was more grievously punished
than the man, as appears from Gen. 3. Therefore she sinned more grievously than the man.

I answer that, As stated (A. 3), the gravity of a sin depends on the species rather than on
a circumstance of that sin. Accordingly we must assert that, if we consider the condition attaching
to these persons, the man's sin is the more grievous, because he was more perfect than the woman.

As regards the genus itself of the sin, the sin of each is considered to be equal, for each
sinned by pride. Hence Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xi, 35): "Eve in excusing herself betrays
disparity of sex, though parity of pride."

But as regards the species of pride, the woman sinned more grievously, for three reasons. First,
because she was more puffed up than the man. For the woman believed in the serpent's persuasive
words, namely that God had forbidden them to eat of the tree, lest they should become like
to Him; so that in wishing to attain to God's likeness by eating of the forbidden fruit, her
pride rose to the height of desiring to obtain something against God's will. On the other hand,
the man did not believe this to be true; wherefore he did not wish to attain to God's likeness
against God's will: but his pride consisted in wishing to attain thereto by his own power.
Secondly, the woman not only herself sinned, but suggested sin to the man; wherefore she sinned
against both God and her neighbor. Thirdly, the man's sin was diminished by the fact that,
as Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xi, 42), "he consented to the sin out of a certain friendly
good-will, on account of which a man sometimes will offend God rather than make an enemy of
his friend. That he ought not to have done so is shown by the just issue of the Divine sentence."

It is therefore evident that the woman's sin was more grievous than the man's.

Reply Obj. 1: The woman was deceived because she was first of all puffed up with pride. Wherefore
her ignorance did not excuse, but aggravated her sin, in so far as it was the cause of her
being puffed up with still greater pride.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument considers the circumstance of personal condition, on account of
which the man's sin was more grievous than the woman's.

Reply Obj. 3: The man's reliance on God's mercy did not reach to contempt of God's justice,
wherein consists the sin against the Holy Ghost, but as Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xi [*De
Civ. Dei xiv, 11]), it was due to the fact that, "having had no experience of God's severity,
he thought the sin to be venial," i.e. easily forgiven [*Cf. I-II, Q. 89, A. 3, ad 1].

QUESTION 164

OF THE PUNISHMENTS OF THE FIRST MAN'S SIN (In Two Articles)

We must now consider the punishments of the first sin; and under this head there are two points
of inquiry: (1) Death, which is the common punishment; (2) the other particular punishments
mentioned in Genesis.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 164, Art. 1]

Whether Death Is the Punishment of Our First Parents' Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that death is not the punishment of our first parents' sin. For
that which is natural to man cannot be called a punishment of sin, because sin does not perfect
nature but vitiates it. Now death is natural to man: and this is evident both from the fact
that his body is composed of contraries, and because "mortal" is included in the definition
of man. Therefore death is not a punishment of our first parents' sin.

Obj. 2: Further, death and other bodily defects are similarly found in man as well as in other
animals, according to Eccles. 3:19, "The death of man and of beasts is one, and the condition
of them both equal." But in dumb animals death is not a punishment of sin. Therefore neither
is it so in men.

Obj. 3: Further, the sin of our first parents was the sin of particular individuals: whereas
death affects the entire human nature. Therefore it would seem that it is not a punishment
of our first parents' sin.

Obj. 4: Further, all are equally descended from our first parents. Therefore if death were
the punishment of our first parents' sin, it would follow that all men would suffer death in
equal measure. But this is clearly untrue, since some die sooner, and some more painfully,
than others. Therefore death is not the punishment of the first sin.

Obj. 5: Further, the evil of punishment is from God, as stated above (I, Q. 48, A. 6; Q. 49,
A. 2). But death, apparently, is not from God: for it is written (Wis. 1:13): "God made not
death." Therefore death is not the punishment of the first sin.

Obj. 6: Further, seemingly, punishments are not meritorious, since merit is comprised under
good, and punishment under evil. Now death is sometimes meritorious, as in the case of a martyr's
death. Therefore it would seem that death is not a punishment.

Obj. 7: Further, punishment would seem to be painful. But death apparently cannot be painful,
since man does not feel it when he is dead, and he cannot feel it when he is not dying. Therefore
death is not a punishment of sin.

Obj. 8: Further, if death were a punishment of sin, it would have followed sin immediately.
But this is not true, for our first parents lived a long time after their sin (Gen. 5:5). Therefore,
seemingly, death is not a punishment of sin.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Rom. 5:12): "By one man sin entered into this world, and
by sin death."

I answer that, If any one, on account of his fault, be deprived of a favor bestowed on him
the privation of that favor is a punishment of that fault. Now as we stated in the First Part
(Q. 95, A. 1; Q. 97, A. 1), God bestowed this favor on man, in his primitive state, that as
long as his mind was subject to God, the lower powers of his soul would be subject to his rational
mind, and his body to his soul. But inasmuch as through sin man's mind withdrew from subjection
to God, the result was that neither were his lower powers wholly subject to his reason, whence
there followed so great a rebellion of the carnal appetite against the reason: nor was the
body wholly subject to the soul; whence arose death and other bodily defects. For life and
soundness of body depend on the body being subject to the soul, as the perfectible is subject
to its perfection. Consequently, on the other hand, death, sickness, and all defects of the
body are due to the lack of the body's subjection to the soul.

It is therefore evident that as the rebellion of the carnal appetite against the spirit is
a punishment of our first parents' sin, so also are death and all defects of the body.

Reply Obj. 1: A thing is said to be natural if it proceeds from the principles of nature. Now
the essential principles of nature are form and matter. The form of man is his rational soul,
which is, of itself, immortal: wherefore death is not natural to man on the part of his form.
The matter of man is a body such as is composed of contraries, of which corruptibility is a
necessary consequence, and in this respect death is natural to man. Now this condition attached
to the nature of the human body results from a natural necessity, since it was necessary for
the human body to be the organ of touch, and consequently a mean between objects of touch:
and this was impossible, were it not composed of contraries, as the Philosopher states (De
Anima ii, 11). On the other hand, this condition is not attached to the adaptability of matter
to form because, if it were possible, since the form is incorruptible, its matter should rather
be incorruptible. In the same way a saw needs to be of iron, this being suitable to its form
and action, so that its hardness may make it fit for cutting. But that it be liable to rust
is a necessary result of such a matter and is not according to the agent's choice; for, if
the craftsman were able, of the iron he would make a saw that would not rust. Now God Who is
the author of man is all-powerful, wherefore when He first made man, He conferred on him the
favor of being exempt from the necessity resulting from such a matter: which favor, however,
was withdrawn through the sin of our first parents. Accordingly death is both natural on account
of a condition attaching to matter, and penal on account of the loss of the Divine favor preserving
man from death [*Cf. I-II, Q. 85, A. 6].

Reply Obj. 2: This likeness of man to other animals regards a condition attaching to matter,
namely the body being composed of contraries. But it does not regard the form, for man's soul
is immortal, whereas the souls of dumb animals are mortal.

Reply Obj. 3: Our first parents were made by God not only as particular individuals, but also
as principles of the whole human nature to be transmitted by them to their posterity, together
with the Divine favor preserving them from death. Hence through their sin the entire human
nature, being deprived of that favor in their posterity, incurred death.

Reply Obj. 4: A twofold defect arises from sin. One is by way of a punishment appointed by
a judge: and such a defect should be equal in those to whom the sin pertains equally. The other
defect is that which results accidentally from this punishment; for instance, that one who
has been deprived of his sight for a sin he has committed, should fall down in the road. Such
a defect is not proportionate to the sin, nor does a human judge take it into account, since
he cannot foresee chance happenings. Accordingly, the punishment appointed for the first sin
and proportionately corresponding thereto, was the withdrawal of the Divine favor whereby the
rectitude and integrity of human nature was maintained. But the defects resulting from this
withdrawal are death and other penalties of the present life. Wherefore these punishments need
not be equal in those to whom the first sin equally appertains. Nevertheless, since God foreknows
all future events, Divine providence has so disposed that these penalties are apportioned in
different ways to various people. This is not on account of any merits or demerits previous
to this life, as Origen held [*Peri Archon ii, 9]: for this is contrary to the words of Rom.
9:11, "When they . . . had not done any good or evil"; and also contrary to statements made
in the First Part (Q. 90, A. 4; Q. 118, A. 3), namely that the soul is not created before the
body: but either in punishment of their parents' sins, inasmuch as the child is something belonging
to the father, wherefore parents are often punished in their children; or again it is for a
remedy intended for the spiritual welfare of the person who suffers these penalties, to wit
that he may thus be turned away from his sins, or lest he take pride in his virtues, and that
he may be crowned for his patience.

Reply Obj. 5: Death may be considered in two ways. First, as an evil of human nature, and thus
it is not of God, but is a defect befalling man through his fault. Secondly, as having an aspect
of good, namely as being a just punishment, and thus it is from God. Wherefore Augustine says
(Retract. i, 21) that God is not the author of death, except in so far as it is a punishment.

Reply Obj. 6: As Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiii, 5), "just as the wicked abuse not only evil
but also good things, so do the righteous make good use not only of good but also of evil things.
Hence it is that both evil men make evil use of the law, though the law is good, while good
men die well, although death is an evil." Wherefore inasmuch as holy men make good use of death,
their death is to them meritorious.

Reply Obj. 7: Death may be considered in two ways. First, as the privation of life, and thus
death cannot be felt, since it is the privation of sense and life. In this way it involves
not pain of sense but pain of loss. Secondly, it may be considered as denoting the corruption
which ends in the aforesaid privation. Now we may speak of corruption even as of generation
in two ways: in one way as being the term of alteration, and thus in the first instant in which
life departs, death is said to be present. In this way also death has no pain of sense. In
another way corruption may be taken as including the previous alteration: thus a person is
said to die, when he is in motion towards death; just as a thing is said to be engendered,
while in motion towards the state of having been engendered: and thus death may be painful.

Reply Obj. 8: According to Augustine (Gen. ad lit. [*De Pecc. Mer. et Rem. i, 16. Cf. Gen.
ad lit. ii. 32]), "although our first parents lived thereafter many years, they began to die
on the day when they heard the death-decree, condemning them to decline to old age."

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 164, Art. 2]

Whether the Particular Punishments of Our First Parents Are Suitably Appointed in Scripture?

Objection 1: It would seem that the particular punishments of our first parents are unsuitably
appointed in Scripture. For that which would have occurred even without sin should not be described
as a punishment for sin. Now seemingly there would have been "pain in child-bearing," even
had there been no sin: for the disposition of the female sex is such that offspring cannot
be born without pain to the bearer. Likewise the "subjection of woman to man" results from
the perfection of the male, and the imperfection of the female sex. Again it belongs to the
nature of the earth "to bring forth thorns and thistles," and this would have occurred even
had there been no sin. Therefore these are unsuitable punishments of the first sin.

Obj. 2: Further, that which pertains to a person's dignity does not, seemingly, pertain to
his punishment. But the "multiplying of conceptions" pertains to a woman's dignity. Therefore
it should not be described as the woman's punishment.

Obj. 3: Further, the punishment of our first parents' sin is transmitted to all, as we have
stated with regard to death (A. 1). But all "women's conceptions" are not "multiplied," nor
does "every man eat bread in the sweat of his face." Therefore these are not suitable punishments
of the first sin.

Obj. 4: Further, the place of paradise was made for man. Now nothing in the order of things
should be without purpose. Therefore it would seem that the exclusion of man from paradise
was not a suitable punishment of man.

Obj. 5: Further, this place of the earthly paradise is said to be naturally inaccessible. Therefore
it was useless to put other obstacles in the way lest man should return thither, to wit the
cherubim, and the "flaming sword turning every way."

Obj. 6: Further, immediately after his sin man was subject to the necessity of dying, so that
he could not be restored to immortality by the beneficial tree of life. Therefore it was useless
to forbid him to eat of the tree of life, as instanced by the words of Gen. 3:22: "See, lest
perhaps he . . . take . . . of the tree of life . . . and live for ever."

Obj. 7: Further, to mock the unhappy seems inconsistent with mercy and clemency, which are
most of all ascribed to God in Scripture, according to Ps. 144:9, "His tender mercies are over
all His works." Therefore God is unbecomingly described as mocking our first parents, already
reduced through sin to unhappy straits, in the words of Gen. 3:22, "Behold Adam is become as
one of Us, knowing good and evil."

Obj. 8: Further, clothes are necessary to man, like food, according to 1 Tim. 6:8, "Having
food, and wherewith to be covered, with these we are content." Therefore just as food was appointed
to our first parents before their sin, so also should clothing have been ascribed to them.
Therefore after their sin it was unsuitable to say that God made for them garments of skin.

Objection 9: Further, the punishment inflicted for a sin should outweigh in evil the gain realized
through the sin: else the punishment would not deter one from sinning. Now through sin our
first parents gained in this, that their eyes were opened, according to Gen. 3:7. But this
outweighs in good all the penal evils which are stated to have resulted from sin. Therefore
the punishments resulting from our first parents' sin are unsuitably described.

On the contrary, These punishments were appointed by God, Who does all things, "in number,
weight, and measure [*Vulg.: 'Thou hast ordered all things in measure, and number, and weight.']"
(Wis. 11:21).

I answer that, As stated in the foregoing Article, on account of their sin, our first parents
were deprived of the Divine favor, whereby the integrity of human nature was maintained in
them, and by the withdrawal of this favor human nature incurred penal defects. Hence they were
punished in two ways. In the first place by being deprived of that which was befitting the
state of integrity, namely the place of the earthly paradise: and this is indicated (Gen. 3:23)
where it is stated that "God sent him out of the paradise of pleasure." And since he was unable,
of himself, to return to that state of original innocence, it was fitting that obstacles should
be placed against his recovering those things that were befitting his original state, namely
food (lest he should take of the tree of life) and place; for "God placed before . . . paradise
. . . Cherubim, and a flaming sword." Secondly, they were punished by having appointed to them
things befitting a nature bereft of the aforesaid favor: and this as regards both the body
and the soul. With regard to the body, to which pertains the distinction of sex, one punishment
was appointed to the woman and another to the man. To the woman punishment was appointed in
respect of two things on account of which she is united to the man; and these are the begetting
of children, and community of works pertaining to family life. As regards the begetting of
children, she was punished in two ways: first in the weariness to which she is subject while
carrying the child after conception, and this is indicated in the words (Gen. 3:16), "I will
multiply thy sorrows, and thy conceptions"; secondly, in the pain which she suffers in giving
birth, and this is indicated by the words (Gen. 3:16), "In sorrow shalt thou bring forth."
As regards family life she was punished by being subjected to her husband's authority, and
this is conveyed in the words (Gen. 3:16), "Thou shalt be under thy husband's power."

Now, just as it belongs to the woman to be subject to her husband in matters relating to the
family life, so it belongs to the husband to provide the necessaries of that life. In this
respect he was punished in three ways. First, by the barrenness of the earth, in the words
(Gen. 3:17), "Cursed is the earth in thy work." Secondly, by the cares of his toil, without
which he does not win the fruits of the earth; hence the words (Gen. 3:17), "With labor and
toil shalt thou eat thereof all the days of thy life." Thirdly, by the obstacles encountered
by the tillers of the soil, wherefore it is written (Gen. 3:18), "Thorns and thistles shall
it bring forth to thee."

Likewise a triple punishment is ascribed to them on the part of the soul. First, by reason
of the confusion they experienced at the rebellion of the flesh against the spirit; hence it
is written (Gen. 3:7): "The eyes of them both were opened; and . . . they perceived themselves
to be naked." Secondly, by the reproach for their sin, indicated by the words (Gen. 3:22),
"Behold Adam is become as one of Us." Thirdly, by the reminder of their coming death, when
it was said to him (Gen. 3:19): "Dust thou art and into dust thou shalt return." To this also
pertains that God made them garments of skin, as a sign of their mortality.

Reply Obj. 1: In the state of innocence child-bearing would have been painless: for Augustine
says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 26): "Just as, in giving birth, the mother would then be relieved not
by groans of pain, but by the instigations of maturity, so in bearing and conceiving the union
of both sexes would be one not of lustful desire but of deliberate action" [*Cf. I, Q. 98, A. 2].

The subjection of the woman to her husband is to be understood as inflicted in punishment of
the woman, not as to his headship (since even before sin the man was the "head" and governor
"of the woman"), but as to her having now to obey her husband's will even against her own.

If man had not sinned, the earth would have brought forth thorns and thistles to be the food
of animals, but not to punish man, because their growth would bring no labor or punishment
for the tiller of the soil, as Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. iii, 18). Alcuin [*Interrog. et
Resp. in Gen. lxxix], however, holds that, before sin, the earth brought forth no thorns and
thistles, whatever: but the former opinion is the better.

Reply Obj. 2: The multiplying of her conceptions was appointed as a punishment to the woman,
not on account of the begetting of children, for this would have been the same even before
sin, but on account of the numerous sufferings to which the woman is subject, through carrying
her offspring after conception. Hence it is expressly stated: "I will multiply thy sorrows,
and thy conceptions."

Reply Obj. 3: These punishments affect all somewhat. For any woman who conceives must needs
suffer sorrows and bring forth her child with pain: except the Blessed Virgin, who "conceived
without corruption, and bore without pain" [*St. Bernard, Serm. in Dom. inf. oct. Assum. B.
V. M.], because her conceiving was not according to the law of nature, transmitted from our
first parents. And if a woman neither conceives nor bears, she suffers from the defect of barrenness,
which outweighs the aforesaid punishments. Likewise whoever tills the soil must needs eat his
bread in the sweat of his brow: while those who do not themselves work on the land, are busied
with other labors, for "man is born to labor" (Job 5:7): and thus they eat the bread for which
others have labored in the sweat of their brow.

Reply Obj. 4: Although the place of the earthly paradise avails not man for his use, it avails
him for a lesson; because he knows himself deprived of that place on account of sin, and because
by the things that have a bodily existence in that paradise, he is instructed in things pertaining
to the heavenly paradise, the way to which is prepared for man by Christ.

Reply Obj. 5: Apart from the mysteries of the spiritual interpretation, this place would seem
to be inaccessible, chiefly on account of the extreme heat in the middle zone by reason of
the nighness of the sun. This is denoted by the "flaming sword," which is described as "turning
every way," as being appropriate to the circular movement that causes this heat. And since
the movements of corporal creatures are set in order through the ministry of the angels, according
to Augustine (De Trin. iii, 4), it was fitting that, besides the sword turning every way, there
should be cherubim "to keep the way of the tree of life." Hence Augustine says (Gen. ad lit.
xi, 40): "It is to be believed that even in the visible paradise this was done by heavenly
powers indeed, so that there was a fiery guard set there by the ministry of angels."

Reply Obj. 6: After sin, if man had [eaten] of the tree of life, he would not thereby have
recovered immortality, but by means of that beneficial food he might have prolonged his life.
Hence in the words "And live for ever," "for ever" signifies "for a long time." For it was
not expedient for man to remain longer in the unhappiness of this life.

Reply Obj. 7: According to Augustine (Gen. ad lit. xi, 39), "these words of God are not so
much a mockery of our first parents as a deterrent to others, for whose benefit these things
are written, lest they be proud likewise, because Adam not only failed to become that which
he coveted to be, but did not keep that to which he was made."

Reply Obj. 8: Clothing is necessary to man in his present state of unhappiness for two reasons.
First, to supply a deficiency in respect of external harm caused by, for instance, extreme
heat or cold. Secondly, to hide his ignominy and to cover the shame of those members wherein
the rebellion of the flesh against the spirit is most manifest. Now these two motives do not
apply to the primitive state. because then man's body could not be hurt by any outward thing,
as stated in the First Part (Q. 97, A. 2), nor was there in man's body anything shameful that
would bring confusion on him. Hence it is written (Gen. 2:23): "And they were both naked, to
wit Adam and his wife, and were not ashamed." The same cannot be said of food, which is necessary
to entertain the natural heat, and to sustain the body.

Reply Obj. 9: As Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xi, 31), "We must not imagine that our first
parents were created with their eyes closed, especially since it is stated that the woman saw
that the tree was fair, and good to eat. Accordingly the eyes of both were opened so that they
saw and thought on things which had not occurred to their minds before, this was a mutual concupiscence
such as they had not hitherto."

QUESTION 165

OF OUR FIRST PARENTS' TEMPTATION (In Two Articles)

We must now consider our first parents' temptation, concerning which there are two points of
inquiry:

(1) Whether it was fitting for man to be tempted by the devil?

(2) Of the manner and order of that temptation.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 165, Art. 1]

Whether It Was Fitting for Man to Be Tempted by the Devil?

Objection 1: It would seem that it was not fitting for man to be tempted by the devil. For
the same final punishment is appointed to the angels' sin and to man's, according to Matt.
25:41, "Go [Vulg.: 'Depart from Me'] you cursed into everlasting fire, which was prepared for
the devil and his angels." Now the angels' first sin did not follow a temptation from without.
Therefore neither should man's first sin have resulted from an outward temptation.

Obj. 2: Further, God, Who foreknows the future, knew that through the demon's temptation man
would fall into sin, and thus He knew full well that it was not expedient for man to be tempted.
Therefore it would seem unfitting for God to allow him to be tempted.

Obj. 3: Further, it seems to savor of punishment that anyone should have an assailant, just
as on the other hand the cessation of an assault is akin to a reward. Now punishment should
not precede fault. Therefore it was unfitting for man to be tempted before he sinned.

On the contrary, It is written (Ecclus. 34:11): "He that hath not been tempted [Douay: 'tried'],
what manner of things doth he know?"

I answer that, God's wisdom "orders all things sweetly" (Wis. 8:1), inasmuch as His providence
appoints to each one that which is befitting it according to its nature. For as Dionysius says
(Div. Nom. iv), "it belongs to providence not to destroy, but to maintain, nature." Now it
is a condition attaching to human nature that one creature can be helped or impeded by another.
Wherefore it was fitting that God should both allow man in the state of innocence to be tempted
by evil angels, and should cause him to be helped by good angels. And by a special favor of
grace, it was granted him that no creature outside himself could harm him against his own will,
whereby he was able even to resist the temptation of the demon.

Reply Obj. 1: Above the human nature there is another that admits of the possibility of the
evil of fault: but there is not above the angelic nature. Now only one that is already become
evil through sin can tempt by leading another into evil. Hence it was fitting that by an evil
angel man should be tempted to sin, even as according to the order of nature he is moved forward
to perfection by means of a good angel. An angel could be perfected in good by something above
him, namely by God, but he could not thus be led into sin, because according to James 1:13,
"God is not a tempter of evils."

Reply Obj. 2: Just as God knew that man, through being tempted, would fall into sin, so too
He knew that man was able, by his free will, to resist the tempter. Hence Augustine says (Gen.
ad lit. xi, 4): "It seems to me that man would have had no prospect of any special praise,
if he were able to lead a good life simply because there was none to persuade him to lead an
evil life; since both by nature he had the power, and in his power he had the will, not to
consent to the persuader."

Reply Obj. 3: An assault is penal if it be difficult to resist it: but, in the state of innocence,
man was able, without any difficulty, to resist temptation. Consequently the tempter's assault
was not a punishment to man.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 165, Art. 2]

Whether the Manner and Order of the First Temptation Was Fitting?

Objection 1: It would seem that the manner and order of the first temptation was not fitting.
For just as in the order of nature the angel was above man, so was the man above the woman.
Now sin came upon man through an angel: therefore in like manner it should have come upon the
woman through the man; in other words the woman should have been tempted by the man, and not
the other way about.

Obj. 2: Further, the temptation of our first parents was by suggestion. Now the devil is able
to make suggestions to man without making use of an outward sensible creature. Since then our
first parents were endowed with a spiritual mind, and adhered less to sensible than to intelligible
things, it would have been more fitting for man to be tempted with a merely spiritual, instead
of an outward, temptation.

Obj. 3: Further, one cannot fittingly suggest an evil except through some apparent good. But
many other animals have a greater appearance of good than the serpent has. Therefore man was
unfittingly tempted by the devil through a serpent.

Obj. 4: Further, the serpent is an irrational animal. Now wisdom, speech, and punishment are
not befitting an irrational animal. Therefore the serpent is unfittingly described (Gen. 3:1)
as "more subtle than any of the beasts of the earth," or as "the most prudent of all beasts"
according to another version [*The Septuagint]: and likewise is unfittingly stated to have
spoken to the woman, and to have been punished by God.

On the contrary, That which is first in any genus should be proportionate to all that follow
it in that genus. Now in every kind of sin we find the same order as in the first temptation.
For, according to Augustine (De Trin. xii, 12), it begins with the concupiscence of sin in
the sensuality, signified by the serpent; extends to the lower reason, by pleasure, signified
by the woman; and reaches to the higher reason by consent in the sin, signified by the man.
Therefore the order of the first temptation was fitting.

I answer that, Man is composed of a twofold nature, intellective and sensitive. Hence the devil,
in tempting man, made use of a twofold incentive to sin: one on the part of the intellect,
by promising the Divine likeness through the acquisition of knowledge which man naturally desires
to have; the other on the part of sense. This he did by having recourse to those sensible things,
which are most akin to man, partly by tempting the man through the woman who was akin to him
in the same species; partly by tempting the woman through the serpent, who was akin to them
in the same genus; partly by suggesting to them to eat of the forbidden fruit, which was akin
to them in the proximate genus.

Reply Obj. 1: In the act of tempting the devil was by way of principal agent; whereas the woman
was employed as an instrument of temptation in bringing about the downfall of the man, both
because the woman was weaker than the man, and consequently more liable to be deceived, and
because, on account of her union with man, the devil was able to deceive the man especially
through her. Now there is no parity between principal agent and instrument, because the principal
agent must exceed in power, which is not requisite in the instrumental agent.

Reply Obj. 2: A suggestion whereby the devil suggests something to man spiritually, shows the
devil to have more power against man than outward suggestion has, since by an inward suggestion,
at least, man's imagination is changed by the devil [*Cf. First Part, Q. 91, A. 3]; whereas
by an outward suggestion, a change is wrought merely on an outward creature. Now the devil
had a minimum of power against man before sin, wherefore he was unable to tempt him by inward
suggestion, but only by outward suggestion.

Reply Obj. 3: According to Augustine (Gen. ad lit. xi, 3), "we are not to suppose that the
devil chose the serpent as his means of temptation; but as he was possessed of the lust of
deceit, he could only do so by the animal he was allowed to use for that purpose." Nor indeed
(Gen. ad lit. xi, 28) did the serpent understand the sounds which were conveyed through it
to the woman; nor again are we to believe that its soul was changed into a rational nature,
since not even men, who are rational by nature, know what they say when a demon speaks in them.
Accordingly (Gen. ad lit. xi, 29) the serpent spoke to man, even as the ass on which Balaam
sat spoke to him, except that the former was the work of a devil, whereas the latter was the
work of an angel. Hence (Gen. ad lit. xi, 36) the serpent was not asked why it had done this,
because it had not done this in its own nature, but the devil in it, who was already condemned
to everlasting fire on account of his sin: and the words addressed to the serpent were directed
to him who wrought through the serpent."

Moreover, as again Augustine says (Super Gen. contra Manich. ii, 17, 18), "his, that is, the
devil's, punishment mentioned here is that for which we must be on our guard against him, not
that which is reserved till the last judgment. For when it was said to him: 'Thou art cursed
among all cattle and beasts of the earth,' the cattle are set above him, not in power, but
in the preservation of their nature, since the cattle lost no heavenly bliss, seeing that they
never had it, but they continue to live in the nature which they received." It is also said
to him: "'Upon thy breast and belly shalt thou creep,'" according to another version [*The
Septuagint] "Here the breast signifies pride, because it is there that the impulse of the soul
dominates, while the belly denotes carnal desire, because this part of the body is softest
to the touch: and on these he creeps to those whom he wishes to deceive." The words, "'Earth
shalt thou eat all the days of thy life' may be understood in two ways. Either 'Those shall
belong to thee, whom thou shalt deceive by earthly lust,' namely sinners who are signified
under the name of earth, or a third kind of temptation, namely curiosity, is signified by these
words: for to eat earth is to look into things deep and dark." The putting of enmities between
him and the woman "means that we cannot be tempted by the devil, except through that part of
the soul which bears or reflects the likeness of a woman. The seed of the devil is the temptation
to evil, the seed of the woman is the fruit of good works, whereby the temptation to evil is
resisted. Wherefore the serpent lies in wait for the woman's heel, that if at any time she
fall away towards what is unlawful, pleasure may seize hold of her: and she watches his head
that she may shut him out at the very outset of the evil temptation."

QUESTION 166

OF STUDIOUSNESS (In Two Articles)

We must next consider studiousness and its opposite, curiosity. Concerning studiousness there
are two points of inquiry:

(1) What is the matter of studiousness?

(2) Whether it is a part of temperance?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 166, Art. 1]

Whether the Proper Matter of Studiousness Is Knowledge?

Objection 1: It would seem that knowledge is not the proper matter of studiousness. For a person
is said to be studious because he applies study to certain things. Now a man ought to apply
study to every matter, in order to do aright what has to be done. Therefore seemingly knowledge
is not the special matter of studiousness.

Obj. 2: Further, studiousness is opposed to curiosity. Now curiosity, which is derived from
cura (care), may also refer to elegance of apparel and other such things, which regard the
body; wherefore the Apostle says (Rom. 13:14): "Make not provision (curam) for the flesh in
its concupiscences."

Obj. 3: Further it is written (Jer. 6:13): "From the least of them even to the greatest, all
study [Douay: 'are given to'] covetousness." Now covetousness is not properly about knowledge,
but rather about the possession of wealth, as stated above (Q. 118, A. 2). Therefore studiousness,
which is derived from "study," is not properly about knowledge.

On the contrary, It is written (Prov. 27:11): "Study wisdom, my son, and make my heart joyful,
that thou mayest give an answer to him that reproacheth." Now study, which is commended as
a virtue, is the same as that to which the Law urges. Therefore studiousness is properly about
knowledge.

I answer that, Properly speaking, study denotes keen application of the mind to something.
Now the mind is not applied to a thing except by knowing that thing. Wherefore the mind's application
to knowledge precedes its application to those things to which man is directed by his knowledge.
Hence study regards knowledge in the first place, and as a result it regards any other things
the working of which requires to be directed by knowledge. Now the virtues lay claim to that
matter about which they are first and foremost; thus fortitude is concerned about dangers of
death, and temperance about pleasures of touch. Therefore studiousness is properly ascribed
to knowledge.

Reply Obj. 1: Nothing can be done aright as regards other matters, except in so far as is previously
directed by the knowing reason. Hence studiousness, to whatever matter it be applied, has a
prior regard for knowledge.

Reply Obj. 2: Man's mind is drawn, on account of his affections, towards the things for which
he has an affection, according to Matt. 6:21, "Where thy treasure is, there is thy heart also."
And since man has special affection for those things which foster the flesh, it follows that
man's thoughts are concerned about things that foster his flesh, so that man seeks to know
how he may best sustain his body. Accordingly curiosity is accounted to be about things pertaining
to the body by reason of things pertaining to knowledge.

Reply Obj. 3: Covetousness craves the acquisition of gain, and for this it is very necessary
to be skilled in earthly things. Accordingly studiousness is ascribed to things pertaining
to covetousness.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 166, Art. 2]

Whether Studiousness Is a Part of Temperance?

Objection 1: It would seem that studiousness is not a part of temperance. For a man is said
to be studious by reason of his studiousness. Now all virtuous persons without exception are
called studious according to the Philosopher, who frequently employs the term "studious" (spoudaios)
in this sense (Ethic. ix, 4, 8, 9). [*In the same sense Aristotle says in Ethic. iii, 2, that
"every vicious person is ignorant of what he ought to do."] Therefore studiousness is a general
virtue, and not a part of temperance.

Obj. 2: Further, studiousness, as stated (A. 1), pertains to knowledge. But knowledge has no
connection with the moral virtues which are in the appetitive part of the soul, and pertains
rather to the intellectual virtues which are in the cognitive part: wherefore solicitude is
an act of prudence as stated above (Q. 47, A. 9). Therefore studiousness is not a part of temperance.

Obj. 3: Further, a virtue that is ascribed as part of a principal virtue resembles the latter
as to mode. Now studiousness does not resemble temperance as to mode, because temperance takes
its name from being a kind of restraint, wherefore it is more opposed to the vice that is in
excess: whereas studiousness is denominated from being the application of the mind to something,
so that it would seem to be opposed to the vice that is in default, namely, neglect of study,
rather than to the vice which is in excess, namely curiosity. wherefore, on account of its
resemblance to the latter, Isidore says (Etym. x) that "a studious man is one who is curious
to study." Therefore studiousness is not a part of temperance.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Morib. Eccl. 21): "We are forbidden to be curious: and
this is a great gift that temperance bestows." Now curiosity is prevented by moderate studiousness.
Therefore studiousness is a part of temperance.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 141, AA. 3, 4, 5), it belongs to temperance to moderate
the movement of the appetite, lest it tend excessively to that which is desired naturally.
Now just as in respect of his corporeal nature man naturally desires the pleasures of food
and sex, so, in respect of his soul, he naturally desires to know something; thus the Philosopher
observes at the beginning of his Metaphysics (i, 1): "All men have a natural desire for knowledge."

The moderation of this desire pertains to the virtue of studiousness; wherefore it follows
that studiousness is a potential part of temperance, as a subordinate virtue annexed to a principal
virtue. Moreover, it is comprised under modesty for the reason given above (Q. 160, A. 2).

Reply Obj. 1: Prudence is the complement of all the moral virtues, as stated in Ethic. vi,
13. Consequently, in so far as the knowledge of prudence pertains to all the virtues, the term
"studiousness," which properly regards knowledge, is applied to all the virtues.

Reply Obj. 2: The act of a cognitive power is commanded by the appetitive power, which moves
all the powers, as stated above (I-II, Q. 9, A. 1). Wherefore knowledge regards a twofold good.
One is connected with the act of knowledge itself; and this good pertains to the intellectual
virtues, and consists in man having a true estimate about each thing. The other good pertains
to the act of the appetitive power, and consists in man's appetite being directed aright in
applying the cognitive power in this or that way to this or that thing. And this belongs to
the virtue of seriousness. Wherefore it is reckoned among the moral virtues.

Reply Obj. 3: As the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 93) in order to be virtuous we must avoid
those things to which we are most naturally inclined. Hence it is that, since nature inclines
us chiefly to fear dangers of death, and to seek pleasures of the flesh, fortitude is chiefly
commended for a certain steadfast perseverance against such dangers, and temperance for a certain
restraint from pleasures of the flesh. But as regards knowledge, man has contrary inclinations.
For on the part of the soul, he is inclined to desire knowledge of things; and so it behooves
him to exercise a praiseworthy restraint on this desire, lest he seek knowledge immoderately:
whereas on the part of his bodily nature, man is inclined to avoid the trouble of seeking knowledge.
Accordingly, as regards the first inclination studiousness is a kind of restraint, and it is
in this sense that it is reckoned a part of temperance. But as to the second inclination, this
virtue derives its praise from a certain keenness of interest in seeking knowledge of things;
and from this it takes its name. The former is more essential to this virtue than the latter:
since the desire to know directly regards knowledge, to which studiousness is directed, whereas
the trouble of learning is an obstacle to knowledge, wherefore it is regarded by this virtue
indirectly, as by that which removes an obstacle.

QUESTION 167

OF CURIOSITY (In Two Articles)

We must next consider curiosity, under which head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the vice of curiosity can regard intellective knowledge?

(2) Whether it is about sensitive knowledge?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 167, Art. 1]

Whether Curiosity Can Be About Intellective Knowledge?

Objection 1: It would seem that curiosity cannot be about intellective knowledge. Because,
according to the Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 6), there can be no mean and extremes in things which
are essentially good. Now intellective knowledge is essentially good: because man's perfection
would seem to consist in his intellect being reduced from potentiality to act, and this is
done by the knowledge of truth. For Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that "the good of the human
soul is to be in accordance with reason," whose perfection consists in knowing the truth. Therefore
the vice of curiosity cannot be about intellective knowledge.

Obj. 2: Further, that which makes man like to God, and which he receives from God, cannot be
an evil. Now all abundance of knowledge is from God, according to Ecclus. 1:1, "All wisdom
is from the Lord God," and Wis. 7:17, "He hath given me the true knowledge of things that are,
to know the disposition of the whole world, and the virtues of the elements," etc. Again, by
knowing the truth man is likened to God, since "all things are naked and open to His eyes"
(Heb. 4:13), and "the Lord is a God of all knowledge" (1 Kings 2:3). Therefore however abundant
knowledge of truth may be, it is not evil but good. Now the desire of good is not sinful. Therefore
the vice of curiosity cannot be about the intellective knowledge of truth.

Obj. 3: Further, if the vice of curiosity can be about any kind of intellective knowledge,
it would be chiefly about the philosophical sciences. But, seemingly, there is no sin in being
intent on them: for Jerome says (Super Daniel 1:8): "Those who refused to partake of the king's
meat and wine, lest they should be defiled, if they had considered the wisdom and teaching
of the Babylonians to be sinful, would never have consented to learn that which was unlawful":
and Augustine says (De Doctr. Christ. ii, 40) that "if the philosophers made any true statements,
we must claim them for our own use, as from unjust possessors." Therefore curiosity about intellective
knowledge cannot be sinful.

On the contrary, Jerome [*Comment. in Ep. ad Ephes. iv, 17] says: "Is it not evident that a
man who day and night wrestles with the dialectic art, the student of natural science whose
gaze pierces the heavens, walks in vanity of understanding and darkness of mind?" Now vanity
of understanding and darkness of mind are sinful. Therefore curiosity about intellective sciences
may be sinful.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 166, A. 2, ad 2) studiousness is directly, not about knowledge
itself, but about the desire and study in the pursuit of knowledge. Now we must judge differently
of the knowledge itself of truth, and of the desire and study in the pursuit of the knowledge
of truth. For the knowledge of truth, strictly speaking, is good, but it may be evil accidentally,
by reason of some result, either because one takes pride in knowing the truth, according to
1 Cor. 8:1, "Knowledge puffeth up," or because one uses the knowledge of truth in order to sin.

On the other hand, the desire or study in pursuing the knowledge of truth may be right or wrong.
First, when one tends by his study to the knowledge of truth as having evil accidentally annexed
to it, for instance those who study to know the truth that they may take pride in their knowledge.
Hence Augustine says (De Morib. Eccl. 21): "Some there are who forsaking virtue, and ignorant
of what God is, and of the majesty of that nature which ever remains the same, imagine they
are doing something great, if with surpassing curiosity and keenness they explore the whole
mass of this body which we call the world. So great a pride is thus begotten, that one would
think they dwelt in the very heavens about which they argue." In like manner, those who study
to learn something in order to sin are engaged in a sinful study, according to the saying of
Jer. 9:5, "They have taught their tongue to speak lies, they have labored to commit iniquity."

Secondly, there may be sin by reason of the appetite or study directed to the learning of truth
being itself inordinate; and this in four ways. First, when a man is withdrawn by a less profitable
study from a study that is an obligation incumbent on him; hence Jerome says [*Epist. xxi ad
Damas]: "We see priests forsaking the gospels and the prophets, reading stage-plays, and singing
the love songs of pastoral idylls." Secondly, when a man studies to learn of one, by whom it
is unlawful to be taught, as in the case of those who seek to know the future through the demons.
This is superstitious curiosity, of which Augustine says (De Vera Relig. 4): "Maybe, the philosophers
were debarred from the faith by their sinful curiosity in seeking knowledge from the demons."

Thirdly, when a man desires to know the truth about creatures, without referring his knowledge
to its due end, namely, the knowledge of God. Hence Augustine says (De Vera Relig. 29) that
"in studying creatures, we must not be moved by empty and perishable curiosity; but we should
ever mount towards immortal and abiding things."

Fourthly, when a man studies to know the truth above the capacity of his own intelligence,
since by so doing men easily fall into error: wherefore it is written (Ecclus. 3:22): "Seek
not the things that are too high for thee, and search not into things above thy ability . .
. and in many of His works be not curious," and further on (Ecclus. 3:26), "For . . . the suspicion
of them hath deceived many, and hath detained their minds in vanity."

Reply Obj. 1: Man's good consists in the knowledge of truth; yet man's sovereign good consists,
not in the knowledge of any truth, but in the perfect knowledge of the sovereign truth, as
the Philosopher states (Ethic. x, 7, 8). Hence there may be sin in the knowledge of certain
truths, in so far as the desire of such knowledge is not directed in due manner to the knowledge
of the sovereign truth, wherein supreme happiness consists.

Reply Obj. 2: Although this argument shows that the knowledge of truth is good in itself, this
does not prevent a man from misusing the knowledge of truth for an evil purpose, or from desiring
the knowledge of truth inordinately, since even the desire for good should be regulated in
due manner.

Reply Obj. 3: The study of philosophy is in itself lawful and commendable, on account of the
truth which the philosophers acquired through God revealing it to them, as stated in Rom. 1:19.
Since, however, certain philosophers misuse the truth in order to assail the faith, the Apostle
says (Col. 2:8): "Beware lest any man cheat you by philosophy and vain deceit, according to
the tradition of men . . . and not according to Christ": and Dionysius says (Ep. vii ad Polycarp.)
of certain philosophers that "they make an unholy use of divine things against that which is
divine, and by divine wisdom strive to destroy the worship of God."

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 167, Art. 2]

Whether the Vice of Curiosity Is About Sensitive Knowledge?

Objection 1: It would seem that the vice of curiosity is not about sensitive knowledge. For
just as some things are known by the sense of sight, so too are some things known by the senses
of touch and taste. Now the vice concerned about objects of touch and taste is not curiosity
but lust or gluttony. Therefore seemingly neither is the vice of curiosity about things known
by the sight.

Obj. 2: Further, curiosity would seem to refer to watching games; wherefore Augustine says
(Confess. vi, 8) that when "a fall occurred in the fight, a mighty cry of the whole people
struck him strongly, and overcome by curiosity Alypius opened his eyes." But it does not seem
to be sinful to watch games, because it gives pleasure on account of the representation, wherein
man takes a natural delight, as the Philosopher states (Poet. vi). Therefore the vice of curiosity
is not about the knowledge of sensible objects.

Obj. 3: Further, it would seem to pertain to curiosity to inquire into our neighbor's actions,
as Bede observes [*Comment. in 1 John 2:16]. Now, seemingly, it is not a sin to inquire into
the actions of others, because according to Ecclus. 17:12, God "gave to every one of them commandment
concerning his neighbor." Therefore the vice of curiosity does not regard the knowledge of
such like particular sensible objects.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Vera Relig. 38) that "concupiscence of the eyes makes men
curious." Now according to Bede (Comment. in 1 John 2:16) "concupiscence of the eyes refers
not only to the learning of magic arts, but also to sight-seeing, and to the discovery and
dispraise of our neighbor's faults," and all these are particular objects of sense. Therefore
since concupiscence of the eves is a sin, even as concupiscence of the flesh and pride of life,
which are members of the same division (1 John 2:16), it seems that the vice of curiosity is
about the knowledge of sensible things.

I answer that, The knowledge of sensible things is directed to two things. For in the first
place, both in man and in other animals, it is directed to the upkeep of the body, because
by knowledge of this kind, man and other animals avoid what is harmful to them, and seek those
things that are necessary for the body's sustenance. In the second place, it is directed in
a manner special to man, to intellective knowledge, whether speculative or practical. Accordingly
to employ study for the purpose of knowing sensible things may be sinful in two ways. First,
when the sensitive knowledge is not directed to something useful, but turns man away from some
useful consideration. Hence Augustine says (Confess. x, 35), "I go no more to see a dog coursing
a hare in the circus; but in the open country, if I happen to be passing, that coursing haply
will distract me from some weighty thought, and draw me after it . . . and unless Thou, having
made me see my weakness, didst speedily admonish me, I become foolishly dull." Secondly, when
the knowledge of sensible things is directed to something harmful, as looking on a woman is
directed to lust: even so the busy inquiry into other people's actions is directed to detraction.
On the other hand, if one be ordinately intent on the knowledge of sensible things by reason
of the necessity of sustaining nature, or for the sake of the study of intelligible truth,
this studiousness about the knowledge of sensible things is virtuous.

Reply Obj. 1: Lust and gluttony are about pleasures arising from the use of objects of touch,
whereas curiosity is about pleasures arising from the knowledge acquired through all the senses.
According to Augustine (Confess. x, 35) "it is called concupiscence of the eyes" because "the
sight is the sense chiefly used for obtaining knowledge, so that all sensible things are said
to be seen," and as he says further on: "By this it may more evidently be discerned wherein
pleasure and wherein curiosity is the object of the senses; for pleasure seeketh objects beautiful,
melodious, fragrant, savory, soft; but curiosity, for trial's sake, seeketh even the contraries
of these, not for the sake of suffering annoyance, but out of the lust of experiment and knowledge."

Reply Obj. 2: Sight-seeing becomes sinful, when it renders a man prone to the vices of lust
and cruelty on account of things he sees represented. Hence Chrysostom says [*Hom. vi in Matth.]
that such sights make men adulterers and shameless.

Reply Obj. 3: One may watch other people's actions or inquire into them, with a good intent,
either for one's own good--that is in order to be encouraged to better deeds by the deeds of
our neighbor--or for our neighbor's good--that is in order to correct him, if he do anything
wrong, according to the rule of charity and the duty of one's position. This is praiseworthy,
according to Heb. 10:24, "Consider one another to provoke unto charity and to good works."
But to observe our neighbor's faults with the intention of looking down upon them, or of detracting
them, or even with no further purpose than that of disturbing them, is sinful: hence it is
written (Prov. 24:15), "Lie not in wait, nor seek after wickedness in the house of the just,
nor spoil his rest."

QUESTION 168

OF MODESTY AS CONSISTING IN THE OUTWARD MOVEMENTS OF THE BODY (In Four Articles)

We must next consider modesty as consisting in the outward movements of the body, and under
this head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether there can be virtue and vice in the outward movements of the body that are done
seriously?

(2) Whether there can be a virtue about playful actions?

(3) Of the sin consisting in excess of play;

(4) Of the sin consisting in lack of play.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 168, Art. 1]

Whether Any Virtue Regards the Outward Movements of the Body?

Objection 1: It would seem that no virtue regards the outward movements of the body. For every
virtue pertains to the spiritual beauty of the soul, according to Ps. 44:14, "All the glory
of the king's daughter is within," and a gloss adds, "namely, in the conscience." Now the movements
of the body are not within, but without. Therefore there can be no virtue about them.

Obj. 2: Further, "Virtues are not in us by nature," as the Philosopher states (Ethic. ii, 1).
But outward bodily movements are in man by nature, since it is by nature that some are quick,
and some slow of movement, and the same applies to other differences of outward movements.
Therefore there is no virtue about movements of this kind.

Obj. 3: Further, every moral virtue is either about actions directed to another person, as
justice, or about passions, as temperance and fortitude. Now outward bodily movements are not
directed to another person, nor are they passions. Therefore no virtue is connected with them.

Obj. 4: Further, study should be applied to all works of virtue, as stated above (Q. 166, A.
1, Obj. 1; A. 2, ad 1). Now it is censurable to apply study to the ordering of one's outward
movements: for Ambrose says (De Offic. i, 18): "A becoming gait is one that reflects the carriage
of authority, has the tread of gravity, and the foot-print of tranquillity: yet so that there
be neither study nor affectation, but natural and artless movement." Therefore seemingly there
is no virtue about the style of outward movements.

On the contrary, The beauty of honesty [*Cf. Q. 145, A. 1] pertains to virtue. Now the style
of outward movements pertains to the beauty of honesty. For Ambrose says (De Offic. i, 18):
"The sound of the voice and the gesture of the body are distasteful to me, whether they be
unduly soft and nerveless, or coarse and boorish. Let nature be our model; her reflection is
gracefulness of conduct and beauty of honesty." Therefore there is a virtue about the style
of outward movement.

I answer that, Moral virtue consists in the things pertaining to man being directed by his
reason. Now it is manifest that the outward movements of man are dirigible by reason, since
the outward members are set in motion at the command of reason. Hence it is evident that there
is a moral virtue concerned with the direction of these movements.

Now the direction of these movements may be considered from a twofold standpoint. First, in
respect of fittingness to the person; secondly, in respect of fittingness to externals, whether
persons, business, or place. Hence Ambrose says (De Offic. i, 18): "Beauty of conduct consists
in becoming behavior towards others, according to their sex and person," and this regards the
first. As to the second, he adds: "This is the best way to order our behavior, this is the
polish becoming to every action."

Hence Andronicus [*De Affectibus] ascribes two things to these outward movements: namely "taste"
(ornatus) which regards what is becoming to the person, wherefore he says that it is the knowledge
of what is becoming in movement and behavior; and "methodicalness" (bona ordinatio) which regards
what is becoming to the business in hand, and to one's surroundings, wherefore he calls it
"the practical knowledge of separation," i.e. of the distinction of "acts."

Reply Obj. 1: Outward movements are signs of the inward disposition, according to Ecclus. 19:27,
"The attire of the body, and the laughter of the teeth, and the gait of the man, show what
he is"; and Ambrose says (De Offic. i, 18) that "the habit of mind is seen in the gesture of
the body," and that "the body's movement is an index of the soul."

Reply Obj. 2: Although it is from natural disposition that a man is inclined to this or that
style of outward movement, nevertheless what is lacking to nature can be supplied by the efforts
of reason. Hence Ambrose says (De Offic. i, 18): "Let nature guide the movement: and if nature
fail in any respect, surely effort will supply the defect."

Reply Obj. 3: As stated (ad 1) outward movements are indications of the inward disposition,
and this regards chiefly the passions of the soul. Wherefore Ambrose says (De Offic. i, 18)
that "from these things," i.e. the outward movements, "the man that lies hidden in our hearts
is esteemed to be either frivolous, or boastful, or impure, or on the other hand sedate, steady,
pure, and free from blemish." It is moreover from our outward movements that other men form
their judgment about us, according to Ecclus. 19:26, "A man is known by his look, and a wise
man, when thou meetest him, is known by his countenance." Hence moderation of outward movements
is directed somewhat to other persons, according to the saying of Augustine in his Rule (Ep.
ccxi), "In all your movements, let nothing be done to offend the eye of another, but only that
which is becoming to the holiness of your state." Wherefore the moderation of outward movements
may be reduced to two virtues, which the Philosopher mentions in Ethic. iv, 6, 7. For, in so
far as by outward movements we are directed to other persons, the moderation of our outward
movements belongs to "friendliness or affability" [*Cf. Q. 114, A. 1]. This regards pleasure
or pain which may arise from words or deeds in reference to others with whom a man comes in
contact. And, in so far as outward movements are signs of our inward disposition, their moderation
belongs to the virtue of truthfulness [*Cf. Q. 9], whereby a man, by word and deed, shows himself
to be such as he is inwardly.

Reply Obj. 4: It is censurable to study the style of one's outward movements, by having recourse
to pretense in them, so that they do not agree with one's inward disposition. Nevertheless
it behooves one to study them, so that if they be in any way inordinate, this may be corrected.
Hence Ambrose says (De Offic. i, 18): "Let them be without artifice, but not without correction."

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 168, Art. 2]

Whether There Can Be a Virtue About Games?

Objection 1: It would seem that there cannot be a virtue about games. For Ambrose says (De
Offic. i, 23): "Our Lord said: 'Woe to you who laugh, for you shall weep.' Wherefore I consider
that all, and not only excessive, games should be avoided." Now that which can be done virtuously
is not to be avoided altogether. Therefore there cannot be a virtue about games.

Obj. 2: Further, "Virtue is that which God forms in us, without us," as stated above (I-II,
Q. 55, A. 4). Now Chrysostom says [*Hom. vi in Matth.]: "It is not God, but the devil, that
is the author of fun. Therefore there can be no virtue about games.

Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 6) that "playful actions are not directed
to something else." But it is a requisite of virtue that the agent in choosing should "direct
his action to something else," as the Philosopher states (Ethic. ii, 4). Therefore there can
be no virtue about games.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Music. ii, 15): "I pray thee, spare thyself at times: for
it becomes a wise man sometimes to relax the high pressure of his attention to work." Now this
relaxation of the mind from work consists in playful words or deeds. Therefore it becomes a
wise and virtuous man to have recourse to such things at times. Moreover the Philosopher [*Ethic.
ii, 7; iv, 8] assigns to games the virtue of eutrapelia, which we may call "pleasantness."

I answer that, Just as man needs bodily rest for the body's refreshment, because he cannot
always be at work, since his power is finite and equal to a certain fixed amount of labor,
so too is it with his soul, whose power is also finite and equal to a fixed amount of work.
Consequently when he goes beyond his measure in a certain work, he is oppressed and becomes
weary, and all the more since when the soul works, the body is at work likewise, in so far
as the intellective soul employs forces that operate through bodily organs. Now sensible goods
are connatural to man, and therefore, when the soul arises above sensibles, through being intent
on the operations of reason, there results in consequence a certain weariness of soul, whether
the operations with which it is occupied be those of the practical or of the speculative reason.
Yet this weariness is greater if the soul be occupied with the work of contemplation, since
thereby it is raised higher above sensible things; although perhaps certain outward works of
the practical reason entail a greater bodily labor. In either case, however, one man is more
soul-wearied than another, according as he is more intensely occupied with works of reason.
Now just as weariness of the body is dispelled by resting the body, so weariness of the soul
must needs be remedied by resting the soul: and the soul's rest is pleasure, as stated above
(I-II, Q. 25, A. 2; I-II, Q. 31, A. 1, ad 2). Consequently, the remedy for weariness of soul
must needs consist in the application of some pleasure, by slackening the tension of the reason's
study. Thus in the Conferences of the Fathers (xxiv, 21), it is related of Blessed John the
Evangelist, that when some people were scandalized on finding him playing together with his
disciples, he is said to have told one of them who carried a bow to shoot an arrow. And when
the latter had done this several times, he asked him whether he could do it indefinitely, and
the man answered that if he continued doing it, the bow would break. Whence the Blessed John
drew the inference that in like manner man's mind would break if its tension were never relaxed.

Now such like words or deeds wherein nothing further is sought than the soul's delight, are
called playful or humorous. Hence it is necessary at times to make use of them, in order to
give rest, as it were, to the soul. This is in agreement with the statement of the Philosopher
(Ethic. iv, 8) that "in the intercourse of this life there is a kind of rest that is associated
with games": and consequently it is sometimes necessary to make use of such things.

Nevertheless it would seem that in this matter there are three points which require especial
caution. The first and chief is that the pleasure in question should not be sought in indecent
or injurious deeds or words. Wherefore Tully says (De Offic. i, 29) that "one kind of joke
is discourteous, insolent, scandalous, obscene." Another thing to be observed is that one lose
not the balance of one's mind altogether. Hence Ambrose says (De Offic. i, 20): "We should
beware lest, when we seek relaxation of mind, we destroy all that harmony which is the concord
of good works": and Tully says (De Offic. i, 29), that, "just as we do not allow children to
enjoy absolute freedom in their games, but only that which is consistent with good behavior,
so our very fun should reflect something of an upright mind." Thirdly, we must be careful,
as in all other human actions, to conform ourselves to persons, time, and place, and take due
account of other circumstances, so that our fun "befit the hour and the man," as Tully says
(De Offic. i, 29).

Now these things are directed according to the rule of reason: and a habit that operates according
to reason is virtue. Therefore there can be a virtue about games. The Philosopher gives it
the name of wittiness (eutrapelia), and a man is said to be pleasant through having a happy
turn* of mind, whereby he gives his words and deeds a cheerful turn: and inasmuch as this virtue
restrains a man from immoderate fun, it is comprised under modesty. [*Eutrapelia is derived
from trepein = "to turn"].

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above, fun should fit with business and persons; wherefore Tully says
(De Invent. Rhet. i, 17) that "when the audience is weary, it will be useful for the speaker
to try something novel or amusing, provided that joking be not incompatible with the gravity
of the subject." Now the sacred doctrine is concerned with things of the greatest moment, according
to Prov. 8:6, "Hear, for I will speak of great things." Wherefore Ambrose does not altogether
exclude fun from human speech, but from the sacred doctrine; hence he begins by saying: "Although
jokes are at times fitting and pleasant, nevertheless they are incompatible with the ecclesiastical
rule; since how can we have recourse to things which are not to be found in Holy Writ?"

Reply Obj. 2: This saying of Chrysostom refers to the inordinate use of fun, especially by
those who make the pleasure of games their end; of whom it is written (Wis. 15:12): "They have
accounted our life a pastime." Against these Tully says (De Offic. i, 29): "We are so begotten
by nature that we appear to be made not for play and fun, but rather for hardships, and for
occupations of greater gravity and moment."

Reply Obj. 3: Playful actions themselves considered in their species are not directed to an
end: but the pleasure derived from such actions is directed to the recreation and rest of the
soul, and accordingly if this be done with moderation, it is lawful to make use of fun. Hence
Tully says (De Offic. i, 29): "It is indeed lawful to make use of play and fun, but in the
same way as we have recourse to sleep and other kinds of rest, then only when we have done
our duty by grave and serious matters."

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 168, Art. 3]

Whether There Can Be Sin in the Excess of Play?

Objection 1: It would seem that there cannot be sin in the excess of play. For that which is
an excuse for sin is not held to be sinful. Now play is sometimes an excuse for sin, for many
things would be grave sins if they were done seriously, whereas if they be done in fun, are
either no sin or but slightly sinful. Therefore it seems that there is no sin in excessive play.

Obj. 2: Further, all other vices are reducible to the seven capital vices, as Gregory states
(Moral. xxxi, 17). But excess of play does not seem reducible to any of the capital vices.
Therefore it would seem not to be a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, comedians especially would seem to exceed in play, since they direct their
whole life to playing. Therefore if excess of play were a sin, all actors would be in a state
of sin; moreover all those who employ them, as well as those who make them any payment, would
sin as accomplices of their sin. But this would seem untrue; for it is related in the Lives
of the Fathers (ii. 16; viii. 63) that is was revealed to the Blessed Paphnutius that a certain
jester would be with him in the life to come.

On the contrary, A gloss on Prov. 14:13, "Laughter shall be mingled with sorrow and mourning
taketh hold of the end of joy," remarks: "A mourning that will last for ever." Now there is
inordinate laughter and inordinate joy in excessive play. Therefore there is mortal sin therein,
since mortal sin alone is deserving of everlasting mourning.

I answer that, In all things dirigible according to reason, the excessive is that which goes
beyond, and the deficient is that which falls short of the rule of reason. Now it has been
stated (A. 2) that playful or jesting words or deeds are dirigible according to reason. Wherefore
excessive play is that which goes beyond the rule of reason: and this happens in two ways.
First, on account of the very species of the acts employed for the purpose of fun, and this
kind of jesting, according to Tully (De Offic. i, 29), is stated to be "discourteous, insolent,
scandalous, and obscene," when to wit a man, for the purpose of jesting, employs indecent words
or deeds, or such as are injurious to his neighbor, these being of themselves mortal sins.
And thus it is evident that excessive play is a mortal sin.

Secondly, there may be excess in play, through lack of due circumstances: for instance when
people make use of fun at undue times or places, or out of keeping with the matter in hand,
or persons. This may be sometimes a mortal sin on account of the strong attachment to play,
when a man prefers the pleasure he derives therefrom to the love of God, so as to be willing
to disobey a commandment of God or of the Church rather than forego, such like amusements.
Sometimes, however, it is a venial sin, for instance where a man is not so attached to amusement
as to be willing for its sake to do anything in disobedience to God.

Reply Obj. 1: Certain things are sinful on account of the intention alone, because they are
done in order to injure someone. Such an intention is excluded by their being done in fun,
the intention of which is to please, not to injure: in these cases fun excuses from sin, or
diminishes it. Other things, however, are sins according to their species, such as murder,
fornication, and the like: and fun is no excuse for these; in fact they make fun scandalous
and obscene.

Reply Obj. 2: Excessive play pertains to senseless mirth, which Gregory (Moral. xxxi, 17) calls
a daughter of gluttony.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated (A. 2), play is necessary for the intercourse of human life. Now whatever
is useful to human intercourse may have a lawful employment ascribed to it. Wherefore the occupation
of play-actors, the object of which is to cheer the heart of man, is not unlawful in itself;
nor are they in a state of sin provided that their playing be moderated, namely that they use
no unlawful words or deeds in order to amuse, and that they do not introduce play into undue
matters and seasons. And although in human affairs, they have no other occupation in reference
to other men, nevertheless in reference to themselves, and to God, they perform other actions
both serious and virtuous, such as prayer and the moderation of their own passions and operations,
while sometimes they give alms to the poor. Wherefore those who maintain them in moderation
do not sin but act justly, by rewarding them for their services. On the other hand, if a man
spends too much on such persons, or maintains those comedians who practice unlawful mirth,
he sins as encouraging them in their sin. Hence Augustine says (Tract. c. in Joan.) that "to
give one's property to comedians is a great sin, not a virtue"; unless by chance some play-actor
were in extreme need, in which case one would have to assist him, for Ambrose says (De Offic.
[*Quoted in Canon Pasce, dist. 86]): "Feed him that dies of hunger; for whenever thou canst
save a man by feeding him, if thou hast not fed him, thou hast slain him."

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 168, Art. 4]

Whether There Is a Sin in Lack of Mirth?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is no sin in lack of mirth. For no sin is prescribed
to a penitent. But Augustine speaking of a penitent says (De Vera et Falsa Poenit. 15) [*Spurious]:
"Let him refrain from games and the sights of the world, if he wishes to obtain the grace of
a full pardon." Therefore there is no sin in lack of mirth.

Obj. 2: Further, no sin is included in the praise given to holy men. But some persons are praised
for having refrained from mirth; for it is written (Jer. 15:17): "I sat not in the assembly
of jesters," and (Tobias 3:17): "Never have I joined myself with them that play; neither have
I made myself partaker with them that walk in lightness." Therefore there can be no sin in
the lack of mirth.

Obj. 3: Further, Andronicus counts austerity to be one of the virtues, and he describes it
as a habit whereby a man neither gives nor receives the pleasures of conversation. Now this
pertains to the lack of mirth. Therefore the lack of mirth is virtuous rather than sinful.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 7; iv, 8) reckons the lack of mirth to be a vice.

I answer that, In human affairs whatever is against reason is a sin. Now it is against reason
for a man to be burdensome to others, by offering no pleasure to others, and by hindering their
enjoyment. Wherefore Seneca [*Martin of Braga, Formula Vitae Honestae: cap. De Continentia]
says (De Quat. Virt., cap. De Continentia): "Let your conduct be guided by wisdom so that no
one will think you rude, or despise you as a cad." Now a man who is without mirth, not only
is lacking in playful speech, but is also burdensome to others, since he is deaf to the moderate
mirth of others. Consequently they are vicious, and are said to be boorish or rude, as the
Philosopher states (Ethic. iv, 8).

Since, however, mirth is useful for the sake of the rest and pleasures it affords; and since,
in human life, pleasure and rest are not in quest for their own sake, but for the sake of operation,
as stated in Ethic. x, 6, it follows that "lack of mirth is less sinful than excess thereof."
Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. ix, 10): "We should make few friends for the sake of pleasure,
since but little sweetness suffices to season life, just as little salt suffices for our meat."

Reply Obj. 1: Mirth is forbidden the penitent because he is called upon to mourn for his sins.
Nor does this imply a vice in default, because this very diminishment of mirth in them is in
accordance with reason.

Reply Obj. 2: Jeremias speaks there in accordance with the times, the state of which required
that man should mourn; wherefore he adds: "I sat alone, because Thou hast filled me with threats."
The words of Tobias 3 refer to excessive mirth; and this is evident from his adding: "Neither
have I made myself partaker with them that walk in lightness."

Reply Obj. 3: Austerity, as a virtue, does not exclude all pleasures, but only such as are
excessive and inordinate; wherefore it would seem to pertain to affability, which the Philosopher
(Ethic. iv, 6) calls "friendliness," or eutrapelia, otherwise wittiness. Nevertheless he names
and defines it thus in respect of its agreement with temperance, to which it belongs to restrain
pleasure.

QUESTION 169

OF MODESTY IN THE OUTWARD APPAREL (In Two Articles)

We must now consider modesty as connected with the outward apparel, and under this head there
are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether there can be virtue and vice in connection with outward apparel?

(2) Whether women sin mortally by excessive adornment?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 169, Art. 1]

Whether There Can Be Virtue and Vice in Connection with Outward Apparel?

Objection 1: It would seem that there cannot be virtue and vice in connection with outward
apparel. For outward adornment does not belong to us by nature, wherefore it varies according
to different times and places. Hence Augustine says (De Doctr. Christ. iii, 12) that "among
the ancient Romans it was scandalous for one to wear a cloak with sleeves and reaching to the
ankles, whereas now it is scandalous for anyone hailing from a reputable place to be without
them." Now according to the Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 1) there is in us a natural aptitude for
the virtues. Therefore there is no virtue or vice about such things.

Obj. 2: Further, if there were virtue and vice in connection with outward attire, excess in
this matter would be sinful. Now excess in outward attire is not apparently sinful, since even
the ministers of the altar use most precious vestments in the sacred ministry. Likewise it
would seem not to be sinful to be lacking in this, for it is said in praise of certain people
(Heb. 11:37): "They wandered about in sheepskins and in goatskins." Therefore it seems that
there cannot be virtue and vice in this matter.

Obj. 3: Further, every virtue is either theological, or moral, or intellectual. Now an intellectual
virtue is not conversant with matter of this kind, since it is a perfection regarding the knowledge
of truth. Nor is there a theological virtue connected therewith, since that has God for its
object; nor are any of the moral virtues enumerated by the Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 7), connected
with it. Therefore it seems that there cannot be virtue and vice in connection with this kind
of attire.

On the contrary, Honesty [*Cf. Q. 145] pertains to virtue. Now a certain honesty is observed
in the outward apparel; for Ambrose says (De Offic. i, 19): "The body should be bedecked naturally
and without affectation, with simplicity, with negligence rather than nicety, not with costly
and dazzling apparel, but with ordinary clothes, so that nothing be lacking to honesty and
necessity, yet nothing be added to increase its beauty." Therefore there can be virtue and
vice in the outward attire.

I answer that, It is not in the outward things themselves which man uses, that there is vice,
but on the part of man who uses them immoderately. This lack of moderation occurs in two ways.
First, in comparison with the customs of those among whom one lives; wherefore Augustine says
(Confess. iii, 8): "Those offenses which are contrary to the customs of men, are to be avoided
according to the customs generally prevailing, so that a thing agreed upon and confirmed by
custom or law of any city or nation may not be violated at the lawless pleasure of any, whether
citizen or foreigner. For any part, which harmonizeth not with its whole, is offensive." Secondly,
the lack of moderation in the use of these things may arise from the inordinate attachment
of the user, the result being that a man sometimes takes too much pleasure in using them, either
in accordance with the custom of those among whom he dwells or contrary to such custom. Hence
Augustine says (De Doctr. Christ. iii, 12): "We must avoid excessive pleasure in the use of
things, for it leads not only wickedly to abuse the customs of those among whom we dwell, but
frequently to exceed their bounds, so that, whereas it lay hidden, while under the restraint
of established morality, it displays its deformity in a most lawless outbreak."

In point of excess, this inordinate attachment occurs in three ways. First when a man seeks
glory from excessive attention to dress; in so far as dress and such like things are a kind
of ornament. Hence Gregory says (Hom. xl in Ev.): "There are some who think that attention
to finery and costly dress is no sin. Surely, if this were no fault, the word of God would
not say so expressly that the rich man who was tortured in hell had been clothed in purple
and fine linen. No one, forsooth, seeks costly apparel" (such, namely, as exceeds his estate)
"save for vainglory." Secondly, when a man seeks sensuous pleasure from excessive attention
to dress, in so far as dress is directed to the body's comfort. Thirdly, when a man is too
solicitous [*Cf. Q. 55, A. 6] in his attention to outward apparel.

Accordingly Andronicus [*De Affectibus] reckons three virtues in connection with outward attire;
namely "humility," which excludes the seeking of glory, wherefore he says that humility is
"the habit of avoiding excessive expenditure and parade"; "contentment" [*Cf. Q. 143, Obj.
4], which excludes the seeking of sensuous pleasure, wherefore he says that "contentedness
is the habit that makes a man satisfied with what is suitable, and enables him to determine
what is becoming in his manner of life"

In the point of deficiency there may be inordinate attachment in two ways. First, through a
man's neglect to give the requisite study or trouble to the use of outward apparel. Wherefore
the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 7) that "it is a mark of effeminacy to let one's cloak trail
on the ground to avoid the trouble of lifting it up." Secondly, by seeking glory from the very
lack of attention to outward attire. Hence Augustine says (De Serm. Dom. in Monte ii, 12) that
"not only the glare and pomp of outward things, but even dirt and the weeds of mourning may
be a subject of ostentation, all the more dangerous as being a decoy under the guise of God's
service"; and the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 7) that "both excess and inordinate defect are
a subject of ostentation."

Reply Obj. 1: Although outward attire does not come from nature, it belongs to natural reason
to moderate it; so that we are naturally inclined to be the recipients of the virtue that moderates
outward raiment.

Reply Obj. 2: Those who are placed in a position of dignity, or again the ministers of the
altar, are attired in more costly apparel than others, not for the sake of their own glory,
but to indicate the excellence of their office or of the Divine worship: wherefore this is
not sinful in them. Hence Augustine says (De Doctr. Christ. iii, 12): "Whoever uses outward
things in such a way as to exceed the bounds observed by the good people among whom he dwells,
either signifies something by so doing, or is guilty of sin, inasmuch as he uses these things
for sensual pleasure or ostentation."

Likewise there may be sin on the part of deficiency: although it is not always a sin to wear
coarser clothes than other people. For, if this be done through ostentation or pride, in order
to set oneself above others, it is a sin of superstition; whereas, if this be done to tame
the flesh, or to humble the spirit, it belongs to the virtue of temperance. Hence Augustine
says (De Doctr. Christ. iii, 12): "Whoever uses transitory things with greater restraint than
is customary with those among whom he dwells, is either temperate or superstitious." Especially,
however, is the use of coarse raiment befitting to those who by word and example urge others
to repentance, as did the prophets of whom the Apostle is speaking in the passage quoted. Wherefore
a gloss on Matt. 3:4, says: "He who preaches penance, wears the garb of penance."

Reply Obj. 3: This outward apparel is an indication of man's estate; wherefore excess, deficiency,
and mean therein, are referable to the virtue of truthfulness, which the Philosopher (Ethic.
ii, 7) assigns to deeds and words, which are indications of something connected with man's estate.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 169, Art. 2]

Whether the Adornment of Women Is Devoid of Mortal Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that the adornment of women is not devoid of mortal sin. For whatever
is contrary to a precept of the Divine law is a mortal sin. Now the adornment of women is contrary
to a precept of the Divine law; for it is written (1 Pet. 3:3): "Whose," namely women's, "adorning,
let it not be the outward plaiting of the hair, or the wearing of gold, or the putting on of
apparel." Wherefore a gloss of Cyprian says: "Those who are clothed in silk and purple cannot
sincerely put on Christ: those who are bedecked with gold and pearls and trinkets have forfeited
the adornments of mind and body." Now this is not done without a mortal sin. Therefore the
adornment of women cannot be devoid of mortal sin.

Obj. 2: Further, Cyprian says (De Habit. Virg.): "I hold that not only virgins and widows,
but also wives and all women without exception, should be admonished that nowise should they
deface God's work and fabric, the clay that He has fashioned, with the aid of yellow pigments,
black powders or rouge, or by applying any dye that alters the natural features." And afterwards
he adds: "They lay hands on God, when they strive to reform what He has formed. This is an
assault on the Divine handiwork, a distortion of the truth. Thou shalt not be able to see God,
having no longer the eyes that God made, but those the devil has unmade; with him shalt thou
burn on whose account thou art bedecked." 3: Further, just as it is unbecoming for a woman
to wear man's clothes, so is it unbecoming for her to adorn herself inordinately. Now the former
is a sin, for it is written (Deut. 22:5): "A woman shall not be clothed with man's apparel,
neither shall a man use woman's apparel." Therefore it seems that also the excessive adornment
of women is a mortal sin.

Obj. 4: On the contrary, If this were true it would seem that the makers of these means of
adornment sin mortally.

I answer that, As regards the adornment of women, we must bear in mind the general statements
made above (A. 1) concerning outward apparel, and also something special, namely that a woman's
apparel may incite men to lust, according to Prov. 7:10, "Behold a woman meeteth him in harlot's
attire, prepared to deceive souls."

Nevertheless a woman may use means to please her husband, lest through despising her he fall
into adultery. Hence it is written (1 Cor. 7:34) that the woman "that is married thinketh on
the things of the world, how she may please her husband." Wherefore if a married woman adorn
herself in order to please her husband she can do this without sin.

But those women who have no husband nor wish to have one, or who are in a state of life inconsistent
with marriage, cannot without sin desire to give lustful pleasure to those men who see them,
because this is to incite them to sin. And if indeed they adorn themselves with this intention
of provoking others to lust, they sin mortally; whereas if they do so from frivolity, or from
vanity for the sake of ostentation, it is not always mortal, but sometimes venial. And the
same applies to men in this respect. Hence Augustine says (Ep. ccxlv ad Possid.): "I do not
wish you to be hasty in forbidding the wearing of gold or costly attire except in the case
of those who being neither married nor wishful to marry, should think how they may please God:
whereas the others think on the things of the world, either husbands how they may please their
wives, or wives how they may please their husbands, except that it is unbecoming for women
though married to uncover their hair, since the Apostle commands them to cover the head." Yet
in this case some might be excused from sin, when they do this not through vanity but on account
of some contrary custom: although such a custom is not to be commended.

Reply Obj. 1: As a gloss says on this passage, "The wives of those who were in distress despised
their husbands, and decked themselves that they might please other men": and the Apostle forbids
this. Cyprian is speaking in the same sense; yet he does not forbid married women to adorn
themselves in order to please their husbands, lest the latter be afforded an occasion of sin
with other women. Hence the Apostle says (1 Tim. 2:9): "Women . . . in ornate [Douay: 'decent']
apparel, adorning themselves with modesty and sobriety, not with plaited hair, or gold, or
pearls, or costly attire": whence we are given to understand that women are not forbidden to
adorn themselves soberly and moderately but to do so excessively, shamelessly, and immodestly.

Reply Obj. 2: Cyprian is speaking of women painting themselves: this is a kind of falsification,
which cannot be devoid of sin. Wherefore Augustine says (Ep. ccxlv ad Possid.): "To dye oneself
with paints in order to have a rosier or a paler complexion is a lying counterfeit. I doubt
whether even their husbands are willing to be deceived by it, by whom alone" (i.e. the husbands)
"are they to be permitted, but not ordered, to adorn themselves." However, such painting does
not always involve a mortal sin, but only when it is done for the sake of sensuous pleasure
or in contempt of God, and it is to like cases that Cyprian refers.

It must, however, be observed that it is one thing to counterfeit a beauty one has not, and
another to hide a disfigurement arising from some cause such as sickness or the like. For this
is lawful, since according to the Apostle (1 Cor. 12:23), "such as we think to be the less
honorable members of the body, about these we put more abundant honor."

Reply Obj. 3: As stated in the foregoing Article, outward apparel should be consistent with
the estate of the person, according to the general custom. Hence it is in itself sinful for
a woman to wear man's clothes, or vice versa; especially since this may be a cause of sensuous
pleasure; and it is expressly forbidden in the Law (Deut. 22) because the Gentiles used to
practice this change of attire for the purpose of idolatrous superstition. Nevertheless this
may be done sometimes without sin on account of some necessity, either in order to hide oneself
from enemies, or through lack of other clothes, or for some similar motive.

Reply Obj. 4: In the case of an art directed to the production of goods which men cannot use
without sin, it follows that the workmen sin in making such things, as directly affording others
an occasion of sin; for instance, if a man were to make idols or anything pertaining to idolatrous
worship. But in the case of an art the products of which may be employed by man either for
a good or for an evil use, such as swords, arrows, and the like, the practice of such an art
is not sinful. These alone should be called arts; wherefore Chrysostom says [*Hom. xlix super
Matth.]: "The name of art should be applied to those only which contribute towards and produce
necessaries and mainstays of life." In the case of an art that produces things which for the
most part some people put to an evil use, although such arts are not unlawful in themselves,
nevertheless, according to the teaching of Plato, they should be extirpated from the State
by the governing authority. Accordingly, since women may lawfully adorn themselves, whether
to maintain the fitness of their estate, or even by adding something thereto, in order to please
their husbands, it follows that those who make such means of adornment do not sin in the practice
of their art, except perhaps by inventing means that are superfluous and fantastic. Hence Chrysostom
says (Super Matth.) that "even the shoemakers' and clothiers' arts stand in need of restraint,
for they have lent their art to lust, by abusing its needs, and debasing art by art."

QUESTION 170

OF THE PRECEPTS OF TEMPERANCE (In Two Articles)

We must next consider the precepts of temperance:

(1) The precepts of temperance itself;

(2) The precepts of its parts.

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 170, Art. 1]

Whether the Precepts of Temperance Are Suitably Given in the Divine Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that the precepts of temperance are unsuitably given in the Divine
law. Because fortitude is a greater virtue than temperance, as stated above (Q. 123, A. 12;
Q. 141, A. 8; I-II, Q. 66, A. 4). Now there is no precept of fortitude among the precepts of
the decalogue, which are the most important among the precepts of the Law. Therefore it was
unfitting to include among the precepts of the decalogue the prohibition of adultery, which
is contrary to temperance, as stated above (Q. 154, AA. 1, 8).

Obj. 2: Further, temperance is not only about venereal matters, but also about pleasures of
meat and drink. Now the precepts of the decalogue include no prohibition of a vice pertaining
to pleasures of meat and drink, or to any other species of lust. Neither, therefore, should
they include a precept prohibiting adultery, which pertains to venereal pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, in the lawgiver's intention inducement to virtue precedes the prohibition
of vice, since vices are forbidden in order that obstacles to virtue may be removed. Now the
precepts of the decalogue are the most important in the Divine law. Therefore the precepts
of the decalogue should have included an affirmative precept directly prescribing the virtue
of temperance, rather than a negative precept forbidding adultery which is directly opposed
thereto.

On the contrary, stands the authority of Scripture in the decalogue (Ex. 20:14, 17). Wherefore
the decalogue contains those precepts which tend more directly to the love of God and of our
neighbor. Now among the vices opposed to temperance, adultery would seem most of all opposed
to the love of our neighbor, since thereby a man lays hold of another's property for his own
use, by abusing his neighbor's wife. Wherefore the precepts of the decalogue include a special
prohibition of adultery, not only as committed in deed, but also as desired in thought.

Reply Obj. 1: Among the species of vices opposed to fortitude there is not one that is so directly
opposed to the love of our neighbor as adultery, which is a species of lust that is opposed
to temperance.

Reply Obj. 2: Gluttony is not directly opposed to the love of our neighbor, as adultery is.
Nor indeed is any other species of lust, for a father is not so wronged by the seduction of
the virgin over whom he has no connubial right, as is the husband by the adultery of his wife,
for he, not the wife herself, has power over her body [*1 Cor. 7:4].

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 122, AA. 1, 4) the precepts of the decalogue are universal
principles of the Divine law; hence they need to be common precepts. Now it was not possible
to give any common affirmative precepts of temperance, because the practice of temperance varies
according to different times, as Augustine remarks (De Bono Conjug. xv, 7), and according to
different human laws and customs.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 170, Art. 2]

Whether the Precepts of the Virtues Annexed to Temperance Are Suitably Given in the Divine Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that the precepts of the virtues annexed to temperance are unsuitably
given in the Divine law. For the precepts of the Decalogue, as stated above (A. 1, ad 3), are
certain universal principles of the whole Divine law. Now "pride is the beginning of all sin,"
according to Ecclus. 10:15. Therefore among the precepts of the Decalogue there should have
been one forbidding pride.

Obj. 2: Further, a place before all should have been given in the decalogue to those precepts
by which men are especially induced to fulfil the Law, because these would seem to be the most
important. Now since humility subjects man to God, it would seem most of all to dispose man
to the fulfilment of the Divine law; wherefore obedience is accounted one of the degrees of
humility, as stated above (Q. 161, A. 6); and the same apparently applies to meekness, the
effect of which is that a man does not contradict the Divine Scriptures, as Augustine observes
(De Doctr. Christ. ii, 7). Therefore it seems that the Decalogue should have contained precepts
of humility and meekness.

Obj. 3: Further, it was stated in the foregoing Article that adultery is forbidden in the decalogue,
because it is contrary to the love of our neighbor. But inordinateness of outward movements,
which is contrary to modesty, is opposed to neighborly love: wherefore Augustine says in his
Rule (Ep. ccxii): "In all your movements let nothing be done to offend the eye of any person
whatever." Therefore it seems that this kind of inordinateness should also have been forbidden
by a precept of the Decalogue.

On the contrary, suffices the authority of Scripture.

I answer that, The virtues annexed to temperance may be considered in two ways: first, in themselves;
secondly, in their effects. Considered in themselves they have no direct connection with the
love of God or of our neighbor; rather do they regard a certain moderation of things pertaining
to man himself. But considered in their effects, they may regard the love of God or of our
neighbor: and in this respect the decalogue contains precepts that relate to the prohibition
of the effects of the vices opposed to the parts of temperance. Thus the effect of anger, which
is opposed to meekness, is sometimes that a man goes on to commit murder (and this is forbidden
in the Decalogue), and sometimes that he refuses due honor to his parents, which may also be
the result of pride, which leads many to transgress the precepts of the first table.

Reply Obj. 1: Pride is the beginning of sin, but it lies hidden in the heart; and its inordinateness
is not perceived by all in common. Hence there was no place for its prohibition among the precepts
of the Decalogue, which are like first self-evident principles.

Reply Obj. 2: Those precepts which are essentially an inducement to the observance of the Law
presuppose the Law to be already given, wherefore they cannot be first precepts of the Law
so as to have a place in the Decalogue.

Reply Obj. 3: Inordinate outward movement is not injurious to one's neighbor, if we consider
the species of the act, as are murder, adultery, and theft, which are forbidden in the decalogue;
but only as being signs of an inward inordinateness, as stated above (Q. 168, A. 1, ad 1, 3).

TREATISE ON GRATUITOUS GRACES (QQ. 171-182)

QUESTION 171

OF PROPHECY (In Six Articles)

After treating individually of all the virtues and vices that pertain to men of all conditions
and estates, we must now consider those things which pertain especially to certain men. Now
there is a triple difference between men as regards things connected with the soul's habits
and acts. First, in reference to the various gratuitous graces, according to 1 Cor. 12:4, 7:
"There are diversities of graces . . . and to one . . . by the Spirit is given the word of
wisdom, to another the word of knowledge," etc. Another difference arises from the diversities
of life, namely the active and the contemplative life, which correspond to diverse purposes
of operation, wherefore it is stated (1 Cor. 12:4, 7) that "there are diversities of operations."
For the purpose of operation in Martha, who "was busy about much serving," which pertains to
the active life, differed from the purpose of operation in Mary, "who sitting . . . at the
Lord's feet, heard His word" (Luke 10:39, 40), which pertains to the contemplative life. A
third difference corresponds to the various duties and states of life, as expressed in Eph.
4:11, "And He gave some apostles; and some prophets; and other some evangelists; and other
some pastors and doctors": and this pertains to diversity of ministries, of which it is written
(1 Cor. 12:5): "There are diversities of ministries."

With regard to gratuitous graces, which are the first object to be considered, it must be observed
that some of them pertain to knowledge, some to speech, and some to operation. Now all things
pertaining to knowledge may be comprised under prophecy, since prophetic revelation extends
not only to future events relating to man, but also to things relating to God, both as to those
which are to be believed by all and are matters of faith, and as to yet higher mysteries, which
concern the perfect and belong to wisdom. Again, prophetic revelation is about things pertaining
to spiritual substances, by whom we are urged to good or evil; this pertains to the discernment
of spirits. Moreover it extends to the direction of human acts, and this pertains to knowledge,
as we shall explain further on (Q. 177). Accordingly we must first of all consider prophecy,
and rapture which is a degree of prophecy.

Prophecy admits of four heads of consideration: (1) its essence; (2) its cause; (3) the mode
of prophetic knowledge; (4) the division of prophecy.

Under the first head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether prophecy pertains to knowledge?

(2) Whether it is a habit?

(3) Whether it is only about future contingencies?

(4) Whether a prophet knows all possible matters of prophecy?

(5) Whether a prophet distinguishes that which he perceives by the gift of God, from that which
he perceives by his own spirit?

(6) Whether anything false can be the matter of prophecy?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 171, Art. 1]

Whether Prophecy Pertains to Knowledge?

Objection 1: It would seem that prophecy does not pertain to knowledge. For it is written (Ecclus.
48:14) that after death the body of Eliseus prophesied, and further on (Ecclus. 49:18) it is
said of Joseph that "his bones were visited, and after death they prophesied." Now no knowledge
remains in the body or in the bones after death. Therefore prophecy does not pertain to knowledge.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (1 Cor. 14:3): "He that prophesieth, speaketh to men unto edification."
Now speech is not knowledge itself, but its effect. Therefore it would seem that prophecy does
not pertain to knowledge.

Obj. 3: Further, every cognitive perfection excludes folly and madness. Yet both of these are
consistent with prophecy; for it is written (Osee 9:7): "Know ye, O Israel, that the prophet
was foolish and mad [*Vulg.: 'the spiritual man was mad']." Therefore prophecy is not a cognitive
perfection.

Obj. 4: Further, just as revelation regards the intellect, so inspiration regards, apparently,
the affections, since it denotes a kind of motion. Now prophecy is described as "inspiration"
or "revelation," according to Cassiodorus [*Prolog. super Psalt. i]. Therefore it would seem
that prophecy does not pertain to the intellect more than to the affections.

On the contrary, It is written (1 Kings 9:9): "For he that is now called a prophet, in time
past was called a seer." Now sight pertains to knowledge. Therefore prophecy pertains to knowledge.

I answer that, Prophecy first and chiefly consists in knowledge, because, to wit, prophets
know things that are far (procul) removed from man's knowledge. Wherefore they may be said
to take their name from phanos, "apparition," because things appear to them from afar. Wherefore,
as Isidore states (Etym. vii, 8), "in the Old Testament, they were called Seers, because they
saw what others saw not, and surveyed things hidden in mystery." Hence among heathen nations
they were known as vates, "on account of their power of mind (vi mentis),"    [*The Latin vates
is from the Greek phates, and may be rendered "soothsayer"] (ibid. viii, 7). 21:10, "That which
I have heard of the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, I have declared unto you." Accordingly,
as Isidore says (Etym. viii, 7), "prophets" may be described as praefatores (foretellers),
"because they tell from afar (porro fantur)," that is, speak from a distance, "and foretell
the truth about things to come."

Now those things above human ken which are revealed by God cannot be confirmed by human reason,
which they surpass as regards the operation of the Divine power, according to Mk. 16:20, "They
. . . preached everywhere, the Lord working withal and confirming the word with signs that
followed." Hence, thirdly, prophecy is concerned with the working of miracles, as a kind of
confirmation of the prophetic utterances. Wherefore it is written (Deut.

Reply Obj. 1: These passages speak of prophecy in reference to the third point just mentioned,
which regards the proof of prophecy.

Reply Obj. 2: The Apostle is speaking there of the prophetic utterances.

Reply Obj. 3: Those prophets who are described as foolish and mad are not true but false prophets,
of whom it is said (Jer. 3:16): "Hearken not to the words of the prophets that prophesy to
you, and deceive you; they speak a vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of the
Lord," and (Ezech. 13:3): "Woe to the foolish prophets, that follow their own spirit, and see
nothing."

Reply Obj. 4: It is requisite to prophecy that the intention of the mind be raised to the perception
of Divine things: wherefore it is written (Ezech. 2:1): "Son of man, stand upon thy feet, and
I will speak to thee." This raising of the intention is brought about by the motion of the
Holy Ghost, wherefore the text goes on to say: "And the Spirit entered into me . . . and He
set me upon my feet." After the mind's intention has been raised to heavenly things, it perceives
the things of God; hence the text continues: "And I heard Him speaking to me." Accordingly
inspiration is requisite for prophecy, as regards the raising of the mind, according to Job
32:8, "The inspiration of the Almighty giveth understanding": while revelation is necessary,
as regards the very perception of Divine things, whereby prophecy is completed; by its means
the veil of darkness and ignorance is removed, according to Job 12:22, "He discovereth great
things out of darkness."

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 171, Art. 2]

Whether Prophecy Is a Habit?

Objection 1: It would seem that prophecy is a habit. For according to Ethic. ii, 5, "there
are three things in the soul, power, passion, and habit." Now prophecy is not a power, for
then it would be in all men, since the powers of the soul are common to them. Again it is not
a passion, since the passions belong to the appetitive faculty, as stated above (I-II, Q. 22,
A. 2); whereas prophecy pertains principally to knowledge, as stated in the foregoing Article.
Therefore prophecy is a habit.

Obj. 2: Further, every perfection of the soul, which is not always in act, is a habit. Now
prophecy is a perfection of the soul; and it is not always in act, else a prophet could not
be described as asleep. Therefore seemingly prophecy is a habit.

Obj. 3: Further, prophecy is reckoned among the gratuitous graces. Now grace is something in
the soul, after the manner of a habit, as stated above (I-II, Q. 110, A. 2). Therefore prophecy
is a habit.

On the contrary, A habit is something "whereby we act when we will," as the Commentator [*Averroes
or Ibn Roshd, 1120-1198] says (De Anima iii). But a man cannot make use of prophecy when he
will, as appears in the case of Eliseus (4 Kings 3:15), "who on Josaphat inquiring of him concerning
the future, and the spirit of prophecy failing him, caused a minstrel to be brought to him,
that the spirit of prophecy might come down upon him through the praise of psalmody, and fill
his mind with things to come," as Gregory observes (Hom. i super Ezech.). Therefore prophecy
is not a habit.

I answer that, As the Apostle says (Eph. 5:13), "all that is made manifest is light," because,
to wit, just as the manifestation of the material sight takes place through material light,
so too the manifestation of intellectual sight takes place through intellectual light. Accordingly
manifestation must be proportionate to the light by means of which it takes place, even as
an effect is proportionate to its cause. Since then prophecy pertains to a knowledge that surpasses
natural reason, as stated above (A. 1), it follows that prophecy requires an intellectual light
surpassing the light of natural reason. Hence the saying of Micah 7:8: "When I sit in darkness,
the Lord is my light." Now light may be in a subject in two ways: first, by way of an abiding
form, as material light is in the sun, and in fire; secondly, by way of a passion, or passing
impression, as light is in the air. Now the prophetic light is not in the prophet's intellect
by way of an abiding form, else a prophet would always be able to prophesy, which is clearly
false. For Gregory says (Hom. i super Ezech.): "Sometimes the spirit of prophecy is lacking
to the prophet, nor is it always within the call of his mind, yet so that in its absence he
knows that its presence is due to a gift." Hence Eliseus said of the Sunamite woman (4 Kings
4:27): "Her soul is in anguish, and the Lord hath hid it from me, and hath not told me." The
reason for this is that the intellectual light that is in a subject by way of an abiding and
complete form, perfects the intellect chiefly to the effect of knowing the principle of the
things manifested by that light; thus by the light of the active intellect the intellect knows
chiefly the first principles of all things known naturally. Now the principle of things pertaining
to supernatural knowledge, which are manifested by prophecy, is God Himself, Whom the prophets
do not see in His essence, although He is seen by the blessed in heaven, in whom this light
is by way of an abiding and complete form, according to Ps. 35:10, "In Thy light we shall see
light."

It follows therefore that the prophetic light is in the prophet's soul by way of a passion
or transitory impression. This is indicated Ex. 33:22: "When my glory shall pass, I will set
thee in a hole of the rock," etc., and 3 Kings 19:11: "Go forth and stand upon the mount before
the Lord; and behold the Lord passeth," etc. Hence it is that even as the air is ever in need
of a fresh enlightening, so too the prophet's mind is always in need of a fresh revelation;
thus a disciple who has not yet acquired the principles of an art needs to have every detail
explained to him. Wherefore it is written (Isa. 1:4): "In the morning He wakeneth my ear, so
that I may hear Him as a master." This is also indicated by the very manner in which prophecies
are uttered: thus it is stated that "the Lord spake to such and such a prophet," or that "the
word of the Lord," or "the hand of the Lord was made upon him."

But a habit is an abiding form. Wherefore it is evident that, properly speaking, prophecy is
not a habit.

Reply Obj. 1: This division of the Philosopher's does not comprise absolutely all that is in
the soul, but only such as can be principles of moral actions, which are done sometimes from
passion, sometimes from habit, sometimes from mere power, as in the case of those who perform
an action from the judgment of their reason before having the habit of that action.

However, prophecy may be reduced to a passion, provided we understand passion to denote any
kind of receiving, in which sense the Philosopher says (De Anima iii, 4) that "to understand
is, in a way, to be passive." For just as, in natural knowledge, the possible intellect is
passive to the light of the active intellect, so too in prophetic knowledge the human intellect
is passive to the enlightening of the Divine light.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as in corporeal things, when a passion ceases, there remains a certain aptitude
to a repetition of the passion--thus wood once ignited is more easily ignited again, so too
in the prophet's intellect, after the actual enlightenment has ceased, there remains an aptitude
to be enlightened anew--thus when the mind has once been aroused to devotion, it is more easily
recalled to its former devotion. Hence Augustine says (De orando Deum. Ep. cxxx, 9) that our
prayers need to be frequent, "lest devotion be extinguished as soon as it is kindled."

We might, however, reply that a person is called a prophet, even while his prophetic enlightenment
ceases to be actual, on account of his being deputed by God, according to Jer. 1:5, "And I
made thee a prophet unto the nations."

Reply Obj. 3: Every gift of grace raises man to something above human nature, and this may
happen in two ways. First, as to the substance of the act--for instance, the working of miracles,
and the knowledge of the uncertain and hidden things of Divine wisdom--and for such acts man
is not granted a habitual gift of grace. Secondly, a thing is above human nature as to the
mode but not the substance of the act--for instance to love God and to know Him in the mirror
of His creatures--and for this a habitual gift of grace is bestowed.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 171, Art. 3]

Whether Prophecy Is Only About Future Contingencies?

Objection 1: It would seem that prophecy is only about future contingencies. For Cassiodorus
says [*Prol. super Psalt. i] that "prophecy is a Divine inspiration or revelation, announcing
the issue of things with unchangeable truth." Now issues pertain to future contingencies. Therefore
the prophetic revelation is about future contingencies alone.

Obj. 2: Further, according to 1 Cor. 12, the grace of prophecy is differentiated from wisdom
and faith, which are about Divine things; and from the discernment of spirits, which is about
created spirits; and from knowledge, which is about human things. Now habits and acts are differentiated
by their objects, as stated above (I-II, Q. 54, A. 2). Therefore it seems that the object of
prophecy is not connected with any of the above. Therefore it follows that it is about future
contingencies alone.

Obj. 3: Further, difference of object causes difference of species, as stated above (I-II,
Q. 54, A. 2). Therefore, if one prophecy is about future contingencies, and another about other
things, it would seem to follow that these are different species of prophecy.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Hom. i super Ezech.) that some prophecies are "about the future,
for instance (Isa. 7:14), 'Behold a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son'"; some are "about
the past, as (Gen. 1:1), 'In the beginning God created heaven and earth'"; some are "about
the present," as (1 Cor. 14:24, 25), "If all prophesy, and there come in one that believeth
not . . . the secrets of his heart are made manifest." Therefore prophecy is not about future
contingencies alone.

I answer that, A manifestation made by means of a certain light can extend to all those things
that are subject to that light: thus the body's sight extends to all colors, and the soul's
natural knowledge extends to whatever is subject to the light of the active intellect. Now
prophetic knowledge comes through a Divine light, whereby it is possible to know all things
both Divine and human, both spiritual and corporeal; and consequently the prophetic revelation
extends to them all. Thus by the ministry of spirits a prophetic revelation concerning the
perfections of God and the angels was made to Isa. 6:1, where it is written, "I saw the Lord
sitting upon a throne high and elevated." Moreover his prophecy contains matters referring
to natural bodies, according to the words of Isa. 40:12, "Who hath measured the waters in the
hollow of His hand," etc. It also contains matters relating to human conduct, according to
Isa. 58:1, "Deal thy bread to the hungry," etc.; and besides this it contains things pertaining
to future events, according to Isa. 47:9, "Two things shall come upon thee suddenly in one
day, barrenness and widowhood."

Since, however, prophecy is about things remote from our knowledge, it must be observed that
the more remote things are from our knowledge the more pertinent they are to prophecy. Of such
things there are three degrees. One degree comprises things remote from the knowledge, either
sensitive or intellective, of some particular man, but not from the knowledge of all men; thus
a particular man knows by sense things present to him locally, which another man does not know
by human sense, since they are removed from him. Thus Eliseus knew prophetically what his disciple
Giezi had done in his absence (4 Kings 5:26), and in like manner the secret thoughts of one
man are manifested prophetically to another, according to 1 Cor. 14:25; and again in this way
what one man knows by demonstration may be revealed to another prophetically.

The second degree comprises those things which surpass the knowledge of all men without exception,
not that they are in themselves unknowable, but on account of a defect in human knowledge;
such as the mystery of the Trinity, which was revealed by the Seraphim saying: "Holy, Holy,
Holy," etc. (Isa. 6:3).

The last degree comprises things remote from the knowledge of all men, through being in themselves
unknowable; such are future contingencies, the truth of which is indeterminate. And since that
which is predicated universally and by its very nature, takes precedence of that which is predicated
in a limited and relative sense, it follows that revelation of future events belongs most properly
to prophecy, and from this prophecy apparently takes its name. Hence Gregory says (Hom. i super
Ezech.): "And since a prophet is so called because he foretells the future, his name loses
its significance when he speaks of the past or present."

Reply Obj. 1: Prophecy is there defined according to its proper signification; and it is in
this sense that it is differentiated from the other gratuitous graces.

Reply Obj. 2: This is evident from what has just been said. We might also reply that all those
things that are the matter of prophecy have the common aspect of being unknowable to man except
by Divine revelation; whereas those that are the matter of wisdom, knowledge, and the interpretation
of speeches, can be known by man through natural reason, but are manifested in a higher way
through the enlightening of the Divine light. As to faith, although it is about things invisible
to man, it is not concerned with the knowledge of the things believed, but with a man's certitude
of assent to things known by others.

Reply Obj. 3: The formal element in prophetic knowledge is the Divine light, which being one,
gives unity of species to prophecy, although the things prophetically manifested by the Divine
light are diverse.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 171, Art. 4]

Whether by the Divine Revelation a Prophet Knows All That Can Be Known Prophetically?

Objection 1: It would seem that by the Divine revelation a prophet knows all that can be known
prophetically. For it is written (Amos 3:7): "The Lord God doth nothing without revealing His
secret to His servants the prophets." Now whatever is revealed prophetically is something done
by God. Therefore there is not one of them but what is revealed to the prophet.

Obj. 2: Further, "God's works are perfect" (Deut. 32:4). Now prophecy is a "Divine revelation,"
as stated above (A. 3). Therefore it is perfect; and this would not be so unless all possible
matters of prophecy were revealed prophetically, since "the perfect is that which lacks nothing"
(Phys. iii, 6). Therefore all possible matters of prophecy are revealed to the prophet.

Obj. 3: Further, the Divine light which causes prophecy is more powerful than the right of
natural reason which is the cause of human science. Now a man who has acquired a science knows
whatever pertains to that science; thus a grammarian knows all matters of grammar. Therefore
it would seem that a prophet knows all matters of prophecy.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Hom. i super Ezech.) that "sometimes the spirit of prophecy
indicates the present to the prophet's mind and nowise the future; and sometimes it points
not to the present but to the future." Therefore the prophet does not know all matters of prophecy.

I answer that, Things which differ from one another need not exist simultaneously, save by
reason of some one thing in which they are connected and on which they depend: thus it has
been stated above (I-II, Q. 65, AA. 1, 2) that all the virtues must needs exist simultaneously
on account of prudence and charity. Now all the things that are known through some principle
are connected in that principle and depend thereon. Hence he who knows a principle perfectly,
as regards all to which its virtue extends, knows at the same time all that can be known through
that principle; whereas if the common principle is unknown, or known only in a general way,
it does not follow that one knows all those things at the same time, but each of them has to
be manifested by itself, so that consequently some of them may be known, and some not.

Now the principle of those things that are prophetically manifested by the Divine light is
the first truth, which the prophets do not see in itself. Wherefore there is no need for their
knowing all possible matters of prophecy; but each one knows some of them according to the
special revelation of this or that matter.

Reply Obj. 1: The Lord reveals to the prophets all things that are necessary for the instruction
of the faithful; yet not all to every one, but some to one, and some to another.

Reply Obj. 2: Prophecy is by way of being something imperfect in the genus of Divine revelation:
hence it is written (1 Cor. 13:8) that "prophecies shall be made void," and that "we prophesy
in part," i.e. imperfectly. The Divine revelation will be brought to its perfection in heaven;
wherefore the same text continues (1 Cor. 113:10): "When that which is perfect is come, that
which is in part shall be done away." Consequently it does not follow that nothing is lacking
to prophetic revelation, but that it lacks none of those things to which prophecy is directed.

Reply Obj. 3: He who has a science knows the principles of that science, whence whatever is
pertinent to that science depends; wherefore to have the habit of a science perfectly, is to
know whatever is pertinent to that science. But God Who is the principle of prophetic knowledge
is not known in Himself through prophecy; wherefore the comparison fails.

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 171, Art. 5]

Whether the Prophet Always Distinguishes What He Says by His Own Spirit from What He Says by
the Prophetic Spirit?

Objection 1: It would seem that the prophet always distinguishes what he says by his own spirit
from what he says by the prophetic spirit. For Augustine states (Confess. vi, 13) that his
mother said "she could, through a certain feeling, which in words she could not express, discern
betwixt Divine revelations, and the dreams of her own soul." Now prophecy is a Divine revelation,
as stated above (A. 3). Therefore the prophet always distinguishes what he says by the spirit
of prophecy, from what he says by his own spirit.

Obj. 2: Further, God commands nothing impossible, as Jerome [*Pelagius. Ep. xvi, among the
supposititious works of St. Jerome] says. Now the prophets were commanded (Jer. 23:28): "The
prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; and he that hath My word, let him speak My
word with truth." Therefore the prophet can distinguish what he has through the spirit of prophecy
from what he sees otherwise.

Obj. 3: Further, the certitude resulting from a Divine light is greater than that which results
from the light of natural reason. Now he that has science, by the light of natural reason knows
for certain that he has it. Therefore he that has prophecy by a Divine light is much more certain
that he has it.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Hom. i super Ezech.): "It must be observed that sometimes the
holy prophets, when consulted, utter certain things by their own spirit, through being much
accustomed to prophesying, and think they are speaking by the prophetic spirit."

I answer that, The prophet's mind is instructed by God in two ways: in one way by an express
revelation, in another way by a most mysterious instinct to "which the human mind is subjected
without knowing it," as Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. ii, 17). Accordingly the prophet has the
greatest certitude about those things which he knows by an express revelation, and he has it
for certain that they are revealed to him by God; wherefore it is written (Jer. 26:15): "In
truth the Lord sent me to you, to speak all these words in your hearing." Else, were he not
certain about this, the faith which relies on the utterances of the prophet would not be certain.
A sign of the prophet's certitude may be gathered from the fact that Abraham being admonished
in a prophetic vision, prepared to sacrifice his only-begotten son, which he nowise would have
done had he not been most certain of the Divine revelation.

On the other hand, his position with regard to the things he knows by instinct is sometimes
such that he is unable to distinguish fully whether his thoughts are conceived of Divine instinct
or of his own spirit. And those things which we know by Divine instinct are not all manifested
with prophetic certitude, for this instinct is something imperfect in the genus of prophecy.
It is thus that we are to understand the saying of Gregory. Lest, however, this should lead
to error, "they are very soon set aright by the Holy Ghost [*For instance, cf. 2 Kings 7:3
seqq.], and from Him they hear the truth, so that they reproach themselves for having said
what was untrue," as Gregory adds (Hom. i super Ezech.).

The arguments set down in the first place consider the revelation that is made by the prophetic
spirit; wherefore the answer to all the objections is clear.

SIXTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 171, Art. 6]

Whether Things Known or Declared Prophetically Can Be False?

Objection 1: It would seem that things known or declared prophetically can be false. For prophecy
is about future contingencies, as stated above (A. 3). Now future contingencies may possibly
not happen; else they would happen of necessity. Therefore the matter of prophecy can be false.

Obj. 2: Further, Isaias prophesied to Ezechias saying (Isa. 38:1): "Take order with thy house,
for thou shalt surely die, and shalt not live," and yet fifteen years were added to his life
(4 Kings 20:6). Again the Lord said (Jer. 18:7, 8): "I will suddenly speak against a nation
and against a kingdom, to root out and to pull down and to destroy it. If that nation against
which I have spoken shall repent of their evil, I also will repent of the evil that I have
thought to do them." This is instanced in the example of the Ninevites, according to John 3:10:
"The Lord [Vulg.: 'God'] had mercy with regard to the evil which He had said that He would
do to them, and He did it not." Therefore the matter of prophecy can be false.

Obj. 3: Further, in a conditional proposition, whenever the antecedent is absolutely necessary,
the consequent is absolutely necessary, because the consequent of a conditional proposition
stands in the same relation to the antecedent, as the conclusion to the premises in a syllogism,
and a syllogism whose premises are necessary always leads to a necessary conclusion, as we
find proved in I Poster. 6. But if the matter of a prophecy cannot be false, the following
conditional proposition must needs be true: "If a thing has been prophesied, it will be." Now
the antecedent of this conditional proposition is absolutely necessary, since it is about the
past. Therefore the consequent is also necessary absolutely; yet this is unfitting, for then
prophecy would not be about contingencies. Therefore it is untrue that the matter of prophecy
cannot be false. Now the truth of prophecy would not be invariable, if its matter could be
false. Therefore nothing false can come under prophecy.

I answer that, As may be gathered from what has been said (AA. 1, 3, 5), prophecy is a kind
of knowledge impressed under the form of teaching on the prophet's intellect, by Divine revelation.
Now the truth of knowledge is the same in disciple and teacher since the knowledge of the disciple
is a likeness of the knowledge of the teacher, even as in natural things the form of the thing
generated is a likeness of the form of the generator. Jerome speaks in this sense when he says
[*Comment. in Daniel ii, 10] that "prophecy is the seal of the Divine foreknowledge." Consequently
the same truth must needs be in prophetic knowledge and utterances, as in the Divine knowledge,
under which nothing false can possibly come, as stated in the First Part (Q. 16, A. 8). Therefore
nothing false can come under prophecy.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated in the First Part (Q. 14, A. 13) the certitude of the Divine foreknowledge
does not exclude the contingency of future singular events, because that knowledge regards
the future as present and already determinate to one thing. Wherefore prophecy also, which
is an "impressed likeness" or "seal of the Divine foreknowledge," does not by its unchangeable
truth exclude the contingency of future things.

Reply Obj. 2: The Divine foreknowledge regards future things in two ways. First, as they are
in themselves, in so far, to wit, as it sees them in their presentiality: secondly, as in their
causes, inasmuch as it sees the order of causes in relation to their effects. And though future
contingencies, considered as in themselves, are determinate to one thing, yet, considered as
in their causes, they are not so determined but that they can happen otherwise. Again, though
this twofold knowledge is always united in the Divine intellect, it is not always united in
the prophetic revelation, because an imprint made by an active cause is not always on a par
with the virtue of that cause. Hence sometimes the prophetic revelation is an imprinted likeness
of the Divine foreknowledge, in so far as the latter regards future contingencies in themselves:
and such things happen in the same way as foretold, for example this saying of Isa. 7:14: "Behold
a virgin shall conceive." Sometimes, however, the prophetic revelation is an imprinted likeness
of the Divine foreknowledge as knowing the order of causes to effects; and then at times the
event is otherwise than foretold. Yet the prophecy does not cover a falsehood, for the meaning
of the prophecy is that inferior causes, whether they be natural causes or human acts, are
so disposed as to lead to such a result. In this way we are to understand the saying of Isa.
38:1: "Thou shalt die, and not live"; in other words, "The disposition of thy body has a tendency
to death": and the saying of Jonah 3:4, "Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be destroyed," that
is to say, "Its merits demand that it should be destroyed." God is said "to repent," metaphorically,
inasmuch as He bears Himself after the manner of one who repents, by "changing His sentence,
although He changes not His counsel" [*Cf. I, Q. 19, A. 7, ad 2].

Reply Obj. 3: Since the same truth of prophecy is the same as the truth of Divine foreknowledge,
as stated above, the conditional proposition: "If this was prophesied, it will be," is true
in the same way as the proposition: "If this was foreknown, it will be": for in both cases
it is impossible for the antecedent not to be. Hence the consequent is necessary, considered,
not as something future in our regard, but as being present to the Divine foreknowledge, as
stated in the First Part (Q. 14, A. 13, ad 2).

QUESTION 172

OF THE CAUSE OF PROPHECY (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the cause of prophecy. Under this head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether prophecy is natural?

(2) Whether it is from God by means of the angels?

(3) Whether a natural disposition is requisite for prophecy?

(4) Whether a good life is requisite?

(5) Whether any prophecy is from the demons?

(6) Whether prophets of the demons ever tell what is true?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 172, Art. 1]

Whether Prophecy Can Be Natural?

Objection 1: It would seem that prophecy can be natural. For Gregory says (Dial. iv, 26) that
"sometimes the mere strength of the soul is sufficiently cunning to foresee certain things":
and Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 13) that the human soul, according as it is withdrawn
from the sense of the body, is able to foresee the future [*Cf. I, Q. 86, A. 4, ad 2]. Now
this pertains to prophecy. Therefore the soul can acquire prophecy naturally.

Obj. 2: Further, the human soul's knowledge is more alert while one wakes than while one sleeps.
Now some, during sleep, naturally foresee the future, as the Philosopher asserts (De Somn.
et Vigil. [*De Divinat. per Somn. ii, which is annexed to the work quoted]). Much more therefore
can a man naturally foreknow the future.

Obj. 3: Further, man, by his nature, is more perfect than dumb animals. Yet some dumb animals
have foreknowledge of future things that concern them. Thus ants foreknow the coming rains,
which is evident from their gathering grain into their nest before the rain commences; and
in like manner fish foreknow a coming storm, as may be gathered from their movements in avoiding
places exposed to storm. Much more therefore can men foreknow the future that concerns themselves,
and of such things is prophecy. Therefore prophecy comes from nature.

Obj. 4: Further, it is written (Prov. 29:18): "When prophecy shall fail, the people shall be
scattered abroad"; wherefore it is evident that prophecy is necessary for the stability of
the human race. Now "nature does not fail in necessaries" [*Aristotle, De Anima iii, 9]. Therefore
it seems that prophecy is from nature.

On the contrary, It is written (2 Pet. 1:21): "For prophecy came not by the will of man at
any time, but the holy men of God spoke, inspired by the Holy Ghost." Therefore prophecy comes
not from nature, but through the gift of the Holy Ghost.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 171, A. 6, ad 2) prophetic foreknowledge may regard future
things in two ways: in one way, as they are in themselves; in another way, as they are in their
causes. Now, to foreknow future things, as they are in themselves, is proper to the Divine
intellect, to Whose eternity all things are present, as stated in the First Part (Q. 14, A.
13). Wherefore such like foreknowledge of the future cannot come from nature, but from Divine
revelation alone. On the other hand, future things can be foreknown in their causes with a
natural knowledge even by man: thus a physician foreknows future health or death in certain
causes, through previous experimental knowledge of the order of those causes to such effects.
Such like knowledge of the future may be understood to be in a man by nature in two ways. In
one way that the soul, from that which it holds, is able to foreknow the future, and thus Augustine
says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 13): "Some have deemed the human soul to contain a certain power of
divination." This seems to be in accord with the opinion of Plato [*Phaed. xxvii; Civit. vi],
who held that our souls have knowledge of all things by participating in the ideas; but that
this knowledge is obscured in them by union with the body; yet in some more, in others less,
according to a difference in bodily purity. According to this it might be said that men, whose
souls are not much obscured through union with the body, are able to foreknow such like future
things by their own knowledge. Against this opinion Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 13):
"How is it that the soul cannot always have this power of divination, since it always wishes
to have it?"

Since, however, it seems truer, according to the opinion of Aristotle, that the soul acquires
knowledge from sensibles, as stated in the First Part (Q. 84, A. 6), it is better to have recourse
to another explanation, and to hold that men have no such foreknowledge of the future, but
that they can acquire it by means of experience, wherein they are helped by their natural disposition,
which depends on the perfection of a man's imaginative power, and the clarity of his understanding.

Nevertheless this latter foreknowledge of the future differs in two ways from the former, which
comes through Divine revelation. First, because the former can be about any events whatever,
and this infallibly; whereas the latter foreknowledge, which can be had naturally, is about
certain effects, to which human experience may extend. Secondly, because the former prophecy
is "according to the unchangeable truth" [*Q. 171, A. 3, Obj. 1], while the latter is not,
and can cover a falsehood. Now the former foreknowledge, and not the latter, properly belongs
to prophecy, because, as stated above (Q. 171, A. 3), prophetic knowledge is of things which
naturally surpass human knowledge. Consequently we must say that prophecy strictly so called
cannot be from nature, but only from Divine revelation.

Reply Obj. 1: When the soul is withdrawn from corporeal things, it becomes more adapted to
receive the influence of spiritual substances [*Cf. I, Q. 88, A. 4, ad 2], and also is more
inclined to receive the subtle motions which take place in the human imagination through the
impression of natural causes, whereas it is hindered from receiving them while occupied with
sensible things. Hence Gregory says (Dial. iv, 26) that "the soul, at the approach of death,
foresees certain future things, by reason of the subtlety of its nature," inasmuch as it is
receptive even of slight impressions. Or again, it knows future things by a revelation of the
angels; but not by its own power, because according to Augustine (Gen. ad lit. xii, 13), "if
this were so, it would be able to foreknow the future whenever it willed," which is clearly false.

Obj. 2: Knowledge of the future by means of dreams, comes either from the revelation of spiritual
substances, or from a corporeal cause, as stated above (Q. 95, A. 6), when we were treating
of divination. Now both these causes are more applicable to a person while asleep than while
awake, because, while awake, the soul is occupied with external sensibles, so that it is less
receptive of the subtle impressions either of spiritual substances, or even of natural causes;
although as regards the perfection of judgment, the reason is more alert in waking than in
sleeping.

Reply Obj. 3: Even dumb animals have no foreknowledge of future events, except as these are
foreknown in their causes, whereby their imagination is moved more than man's, because man's
imagination, especially in waking, is more disposed according to reason than according to the
impression of natural causes. Yet reason effects much more amply in man, that which the impression
of natural causes effects in dumb animals; and Divine grace by inspiring the prophecy assists
man still more.

Reply Obj. 4: The prophetic light extends even to the direction of human acts; and in this
way prophecy is requisite for the government of a people, especially in relation to Divine
worship; since for this nature is not sufficient, and grace is necessary.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 172, Art. 2]

Whether Prophetic Revelation Comes Through the Angels?

Objection 1: It would seem that prophetic revelation does not come through the angels. For
it is written (Wis. 7:27) that Divine wisdom "conveyeth herself into holy souls," and "maketh
the friends of God, and the prophets." Now wisdom makes the friends of God immediately. Therefore
it also makes the prophets immediately, and not through the medium of the angels.

Obj. 2: Further, prophecy is reckoned among the gratuitous graces. But the gratuitous graces
are from the Holy Ghost, according to 1 Cor. 12:4, "There are diversities of graces, but the
same Spirit." Therefore the prophetic revelation is not made by means of an angel.

Obj. 3: Further, Cassiodorus [*Prol. in Psalt. i] says that prophecy is a "Divine revelation":
whereas if it were conveyed by the angels, it would be called an angelic revelation. Therefore
prophecy is not bestowed by means of the angels.

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. iv): "Our glorious fathers received Divine visions
by means of the heavenly powers"; and he is speaking there of prophetic visions. Therefore
prophetic revelation is conveyed by means of the angels.

I answer that, As the Apostle says (Rom. 13:1), "Things that are of God are well ordered [*Vulg.:
'Those that are, are ordained of God.']." Now the Divine ordering, according to Dionysius [*Coel.
Hier. iv; Eccl. Hier. v], is such that the lowest things are directed by middle things. Now
the angels hold a middle position between God and men, in that they have a greater share in
the perfection of the Divine goodness than men have. Wherefore the Divine enlightenments and
revelations are conveyed from God to men by the angels. Now prophetic knowledge is bestowed
by Divine enlightenment and revelation. Therefore it is evident that it is conveyed by the angels.

Reply Obj. 1: Charity which makes man a friend of God, is a perfection of the will, in which
God alone can form an impression; whereas prophecy is a perfection of the intellect, in which
an angel also can form an impression, as stated in the First Part (Q. 111, A. 1), wherefore
the comparison fails between the two.

Reply Obj. 2: The gratuitous graces are ascribed to the Holy Ghost as their first principle:
yet He works grace of this kind in men by means of the angels.

Reply Obj. 3: The work of the instrument is ascribed to the principal agent by whose power
the instrument acts. And since a minister is like an instrument, prophetic revelation, which
is conveyed by the ministry of the angels, is said to be Divine.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 172, Art. 3]

Whether a Natural Disposition Is Requisite for Prophecy?

Objection 1: It would seem that a natural disposition is requisite for prophecy. For prophecy
is received by the prophet according to the disposition of the recipient, since a gloss of
Jerome on Amos 1:2, "The Lord will roar from Sion," says: "Anyone who wishes to make a comparison
naturally turns to those things of which he has experience, and among which his life is spent.
For example, sailors compare their enemies to the winds, and their losses to a shipwreck. In
like manner Amos, who was a shepherd, likens the fear of God to that which is inspired by the
lion's roar." Now that which is received by a thing according to the mode of the recipient
requires a natural disposition. Therefore prophecy requires a natural disposition.

Obj. 2: Further, the considerations of prophecy are more lofty than those of acquired science.
Now natural indisposition hinders the considerations of acquired science, since many are prevented
by natural indisposition from succeeding to grasp the speculations of science. Much more therefore
is a natural disposition requisite for the contemplation of prophecy.

Obj. 3: Further, natural indisposition is a much greater obstacle than an accidental impediment.
Now the considerations of prophecy are hindered by an accidental occurrence. For Jerome says
in his commentary on Matthew [*The quotation is from Origen, Hom. vi in Num.] that "at the
time of the marriage act, the presence of the Holy Ghost will not be vouchsafed, even though
it be a prophet that fulfils the duty of procreation." Much more therefore does a natural indisposition
hinder prophecy; and thus it would seem that a good natural disposition is requisite for prophecy.

On the contrary, Gregory says in a homily for Pentecost (xxx in Ev.): "He," namely the Holy
Ghost, "fills the boy harpist and makes him a Psalmist; He fills the herdsman plucking wild
figs, and makes him a prophet." Therefore prophecy requires no previous disposition, but depends
on the will alone of the Holy Ghost, of Whom it is written (1 Cor. 12:2): "All these things,
one and the same Spirit worketh, dividing to every one according as He will."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), prophecy in its true and exact sense comes from Divine
inspiration; while that which comes from a natural cause is not called prophecy except in a
relative sense. Now we must observe that as God Who is the universal efficient cause requires
neither previous matter nor previous disposition of matter in His corporeal effects, for He
is able at the same instant to bring into being matter and disposition and form, so neither
does He require a previous disposition in His spiritual effects, but is able to produce both
the spiritual effect and at the same time the fitting disposition as requisite according to
the order of nature. More than this, He is able at the same time, by creation, to produce the
subject, so as to dispose a soul for prophecy and give it the prophetic grace, at the very
instant of its creation.

Reply Obj. 1: It matters not to prophecy by what comparisons the thing prophesied is expressed;
and so the Divine operation makes no change in a prophet in this respect. Yet if there be anything
in him incompatible with prophecy, it is removed by the Divine power.

Reply Obj. 2: The considerations of science proceed from a natural cause, and nature cannot
work without a previous disposition in matter. This cannot be said of God Who is the cause
of prophecy.

Reply Obj. 3: A natural indisposition, if not removed, might be an obstacle to prophetic revelation,
for instance if a man were altogether deprived of the natural senses. In the same way a man
might be hindered from the act of prophesying by some very strong passion, whether of anger,
or of concupiscence as in coition, or by any other passion. But such a natural indisposition
as this is removed by the Divine power, which is the cause of prophecy.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 172, Art. 4]

Whether a Good Life Is Requisite for Prophecy?

Objection 1: It would seem that a good life is requisite for prophecy. Now there can be no
holiness without a good life and sanctifying grace. Therefore prophecy cannot be without a
good life and sanctifying grace.

Obj. 2: Further, secrets are not revealed save to a friend, according to John 15:15, "But I
have called you friends, because all things whatsoever I have heard of My Father, I have made
known to you." Now God reveals His secrets to the prophets (Amos 3:7). Therefore it would seem
that the prophets are the friends of God; which is impossible without charity. Therefore seemingly
prophecy cannot be without charity; and charity is impossible without sanctifying grace.

Obj. 3: Further, it is written (Matt. 7:15): "Beware of false prophets, who come to you in
the clothing of sheep, but inwardly they are ravening wolves." Now all who are without grace
are likened inwardly to a ravening wolf, and consequently all such are false prophets. Therefore
no man is a true prophet except he be good by grace.

Obj. 4: Further, the Philosopher says (De Somn. et Vigil. [*Cf. De Divinat. per Somn. i, which
is annexed to the work quoted]) that "if interpretation of dreams is from God, it is unfitting
for it to be bestowed on any but the best." Now it is evident that the gift of prophecy is
from God. Therefore the gift of prophecy is vouchsafed only to the best men.

On the contrary, To those who had said, "Lord, have we not prophesied in Thy name?" this reply
is made: "I never knew you" (Matt. 7:22, 23). Now "the Lord knoweth who are His" (2 Tim. 2:19).
Therefore prophecy can be in those who are not God's by grace.

I answer that, A good life may be considered from two points of view. First, with regard to
its inward root, which is sanctifying grace. Secondly, with regard to the inward passions of
the soul and the outward actions. Now sanctifying grace is given chiefly in order that man's
soul may be united to God by charity. Wherefore Augustine says (De Trin. xv, 18): "A man is
not transferred from the left side to the right, unless he receive the Holy Ghost, by Whom
he is made a lover of God and of his neighbor." Hence whatever can be without charity can be
without sanctifying grace, and consequently without goodness of life. Now prophecy can be without
charity; and this is clear on two counts. First, on account of their respective acts: for prophecy
pertains to the intellect, whose act precedes the act of the will, which power is perfected
by charity. For this reason the Apostle (1 Cor. 13) reckons prophecy with other things pertinent
to the intellect, that can be had without charity. Secondly, on account of their respective
ends. Therefore prophecy can be without a good life, as regards the first root of this goodness.

If, however, we consider a good life, with regard to the passions of the soul, and external
actions, from this point of view an evil life is an obstacle to prophecy. For prophecy requires
the mind to be raised very high in order to contemplate spiritual things, and this is hindered
by strong passions, and the inordinate pursuit of external things. Hence we read of the sons
of the prophets (4 Kings 4:38) that they "dwelt together with [Vulg.: 'before']" Eliseus, leading
a solitary life, as it were, lest worldly employment should be a hindrance to the gift of prophecy.

Reply Obj. 1: Sometimes the gift of prophecy is given to a man both for the good of others,
and in order to enlighten his own mind; and such are those whom Divine wisdom, "conveying itself"
by sanctifying grace to their minds, "maketh the friends of God, and prophets." Others, however,
receive the gift of prophecy merely for the good of others. Hence Jerome commenting on Matt.
7:22, says: "Sometimes prophesying, the working of miracles, and the casting out of demons
are accorded not to the merit of those who do these things, but either to the invoking the
name of Christ, or to the condemnation of those who invoke, and for the good of those who see
and hear."

Reply Obj. 2: Gregory [*Hom. xxvii in Ev.] expounding this passage [*John 15:15] says: "Since
we love the lofty things of heaven as soon as we hear them, we know them as soon as we love
them, for to love is to know. Accordingly He had made all things known to them, because having
renounced earthly desires they were kindled by the torches of perfect love." In this way the
Divine secrets are not always revealed to prophets.

Reply Obj. 3: Not all wicked men are ravening wolves, but only those whose purpose is to injure
others. For Chrysostom says [*Opus Imperf. in Matth., Hom. xix, among the works of St. John
Chrysostom, and falsely ascribed to him] that "Catholic teachers, though they be sinners, are
called slaves of the flesh, but never ravening wolves, because they do not purpose the destruction
of Christians." And since prophecy is directed to the good of others, it is manifest that such
are false prophets, because they are not sent for this purpose by God.

Reply Obj. 4: God's gifts are not always bestowed on those who are simply the best, but sometimes
are vouchsafed to those who are best as regards the receiving of this or that gift. Accordingly
God grants the gift of prophecy to those whom He judges best to give it to.

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 172, Art. 5]

Whether Any Prophecy Comes from the Demons?

Objection 1: It would seem that no prophecy comes from the demons. For prophecy is "a Divine
revelation," according to Cassiodorus [*Prol. in Psalt. i]. But that which is done by a demon
is not Divine. Therefore no prophecy can be from a demon.

Obj. 2: Further, some kind of enlightenment is requisite for prophetic knowledge, as stated
above (Q. 171, AA. 2, 3). Now the demons do not enlighten the human intellect, as stated above
in the First Part (Q. 119, A. 3). Therefore no prophecy can come from the demons.

Obj. 3: Further, a sign is worthless if it betokens contraries. Now prophecy is a sign in confirmation
of faith; wherefore a gloss on Rom. 12:6, "Either prophecy to be used according to the rule
of faith," says: "Observe that in reckoning the graces, he begins with prophecy, which is the
first proof of the reasonableness of our faith; since believers, after receiving the Spirit,
prophesied." Therefore prophecy cannot be bestowed by the demons. Now these were worshippers
of demons. Therefore it would seem that there is also a prophecy from the demons.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 171, A. 1), prophecy denotes knowledge far removed from
human knowledge. Now it is evident that an intellect of a higher order can know some things
that are far removed from the knowledge of an inferior intellect. Again, above the human intellect
there is not only the Divine intellect, but also the intellects of good and bad angels according
to the order of nature. Hence the demons, even by their natural knowledge, know certain things
remote from men's knowledge, which they can reveal to men: although those things which God
alone knows are remote simply and most of all.

Accordingly prophecy, properly and simply, is conveyed by Divine revelations alone; yet the
revelation which is made by the demons may be called prophecy in a restricted sense. Wherefore
those men to whom something is revealed by the demons are styled in the Scriptures as prophets,
not simply, but with an addition, for instance as "false prophets," or "prophets of idols."
Hence Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 19): "When the evil spirit lays hold of a man for such
purposes as these," namely visions, "he makes him either devilish, or possessed, or a false
prophet."

Reply Obj. 1: Cassiodorus is here defining prophecy in its proper and simple acceptation.

Reply Obj. 2: The demons reveal what they know to men, not by enlightening the intellect, but
by an imaginary vision, or even by audible speech; and in this way this prophecy differs from
true prophecy.

Reply Obj. 3: The prophecy of the demons can be distinguished from Divine prophecy by certain,
and even outward, signs. Hence Chrysostom says [*Opus Imperf. in Matth., Hom. xix, falsely
ascribed to St. John Chrysostom] that "some prophesy by the spirit of the devil, such as diviners,
but they may be discerned by the fact that the devil sometimes utters what is false, the Holy
Ghost never." Wherefore it is written (Deut. 18:21, 22): "If in silent thought thou answer:
How shall I know the word that the Lord hath spoken? Thou shalt have this sign: Whatsoever
that same prophet foretelleth in the name of the Lord, and it come not to pass, that thing
the Lord hath not spoken."

SIXTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 172, Art. 6]

Whether the Prophets of the Demons Ever Foretell the Truth?

Objection 1: It would seem that the prophets of the demons never foretell the truth. For Ambrose
[*Hilary the Deacon (Ambrosiaster) on 1 Cor. 12:3] says that "Every truth, by whomsoever spoken,
is from the Holy Ghost." Now the prophets of the demons do not speak from the Holy Ghost, because
"there is no concord between Christ and Belial [*'What concord hath Christ with Belial?']"
(2 Cor. 6:15). Therefore it would seem that they never foretell the truth.

Obj. 2: Further, just as true prophets are inspired by the Spirit of truth, so the prophets
of the demons are inspired by the spirit of untruth, according to 3 Kings 22:22, "I will go
forth, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets." Now the prophets inspired by
the Holy Ghost never speak false, as stated above (Q. 111, A. 6). Therefore the prophets of
the demons never speak truth.

Obj. 3: Further, it is said of the devil (John 8:44) that "when he speaketh a lie, he speaketh
of his own, for the devil is a liar, and the father thereof," i.e. of lying. Now by inspiring
his prophets, the devil speaks only of his own, for he is not appointed God's minister to declare
the truth, since "light hath no fellowship with darkness [*Vulg.: 'What fellowship hath light
with darkness?']" (2 Cor. 6:14). Therefore the prophets of the demons never foretell the truth.

On the contrary, A gloss on Num. 22:14, says that "Balaam was a diviner, for he sometimes foreknew
the future by help of the demons and the magic art." Now he foretold many true things, for
instance that which is to be found in Num. 24:17: "A star shall rise out of Jacob, and a scepter
shall spring up from Israel." Therefore even the prophets of the demons foretell the truth.

I answer that, As the good is in relation to things, so is the true in relation to knowledge.
Now in things it is impossible to find one that is wholly devoid of good. Wherefore it is also
impossible for any knowledge to be wholly false, without some mixture of truth. Hence Bede
says [*Comment. in Luc. xvii, 12; Cf. Augustine, QQ. Evang. ii, 40] that "no teaching is so
false that it never mingles truth with falsehood." Hence the teaching of the demons, with which
they instruct their prophets, contains some truths whereby it is rendered acceptable. For the
intellect is led astray to falsehood by the semblance of truth, even as the will is seduced
to evil by the semblance of goodness.

Reply Obj. 1: The prophets of the demons do not always speak from the demons' revelation, but
sometimes by Divine inspiration. This was evidently the case with Balaam, of whom we read that
the Lord spoke to him (Num. 22:12), though he was a prophet of the demons, because God makes
use even of the wicked for the profit of the good. Hence He foretells certain truths even by
the demons' prophets, both that the truth may be rendered more credible, since even its foes
bear witness to it, and also in order that men, by believing such men, may be more easily led
on to truth. Wherefore also the Sibyls foretold many true things about Christ.

Yet even when the demons' prophets are instructed by the demons, they foretell the truth, sometimes
by virtue of their own nature, the author of which is the Holy Ghost, and sometimes by revelation
of the good spirits, as Augustine declares (Gen. ad lit. xii, 19): so that even then this truth
which the demons proclaim is from the Holy Ghost.

Reply Obj. 2: A true prophet is always inspired by the Spirit of truth, in Whom there is no
falsehood, wherefore He never says what is not true; whereas a false prophet is not always
instructed by the spirit of untruth, but sometimes even by the Spirit of truth. Even the very
spirit of untruth sometimes declares true things, sometimes false, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: Those things are called the demons' own, which they have of themselves, namely
lies and sins; while they have, not of themselves but of God, those things which belong to
them by nature: and it is by virtue of their own nature that they sometimes foretell the truth,
as stated above (ad 1). Moreover God makes use of them to make known the truth which is to
be accomplished through them, by revealing Divine mysteries to them through the angels, as
already stated (Gen. ad lit. xii, 19; I, Q. 109, A. 4, ad 1).

QUESTION 173

OF THE MANNER IN WHICH PROPHETIC KNOWLEDGE IS CONVEYED (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the manner in which prophetic knowledge is conveyed, and under this head
there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the prophets see God's very essence?

(2) Whether the prophetic revelation is effected by the infusion of certain species, or by
the infusion of Divine light alone?

(3) Whether prophetic revelation is always accompanied by abstraction from the sense?

(4) Whether prophecy is always accompanied by knowledge of the things prophesied?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 173, Art. 1]

Whether the Prophets See the Very Essence of God? Now God's foreknowledge is His very essence.
Therefore prophets see God's very essence.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Trin. ix, 7) that "in that eternal truth from which all
temporal things are made, we see with the mind's eye the type both of our being and of our
actions." Now, of all men, prophets have the highest knowledge of Divine things. Therefore
they, especially, see the Divine essence.

Obj. 3: Further, future contingencies are foreknown by the prophets "with unchangeable truth."
Now future contingencies exist thus in God alone. Therefore the prophets see God Himself.

On the contrary, The vision of the Divine essence is not made void in heaven; whereas "prophecy
is made void" (1 Cor. 13:8). Therefore prophecy is not conveyed by a vision of the Divine essence.

I answer that, Prophecy denotes Divine knowledge as existing afar off. Wherefore it is said
of the prophets (Heb. 11:13) that "they were beholding . . . afar off." But those who are in
heaven and in the state of bliss see, not as from afar off, but rather, as it were, from near
at hand, according to Ps. 139:14, "The upright shall dwell with Thy countenance." Hence it
is evident that prophetic knowledge differs from the perfect knowledge, which we shall have
in heaven, so that it is distinguished therefrom as the imperfect from the perfect, and when
the latter comes the former is made void, as appears from the words of the Apostle (1 Cor. 13:10).

Some, however, wishing to discriminate between prophetic knowledge and the knowledge of the
blessed, have maintained that the prophets see the very essence of God (which they call the
"mirror of eternity") [*Cf. De Veritate, xii, 6; Sent. II, D, XI, part 2, art. 2, ad 4], not,
however, in the way in which it is the object of the blessed, but as containing the types [*Cf.
I, Q. 15] of future events. But this is altogether impossible. For God is the object of bliss
in His very essence, according to the saying of Augustine (Confess. v, 4): "Happy whoso knoweth
Thee, though he know not these," i.e. creatures. Now it is not possible to see the types of
creatures in the very essence of God without seeing It, both because the Divine essence is
Itself the type of all things that are made--the ideal type adding nothing to the Divine essence
save only a relationship to the creature--and because knowledge of a thing in itself--and such
is the knowledge of God as the object of heavenly bliss--precedes knowledge of that thing in
its relation to something else--and such is the knowledge of God as containing the types of
things. Consequently it is impossible for prophets to see God as containing the types of creatures,
and yet not as the object of bliss. Therefore we must conclude that the prophetic vision is
not the vision of the very essence of God, and that the prophets do not see in the Divine essence
Itself the things they do see, but that they see them in certain images, according as they
are enlightened by the Divine light.

Wherefore Dionysius (Coel. Hier. iv), in speaking of prophetic visions, says that "the wise
theologian calls that vision divine which is effected by images of things lacking a bodily
form through the seer being rapt in divine things." And these images illumined by the Divine
light have more of the nature of a mirror than the Divine essence: since in a mirror images
are formed from other things, and this cannot be said of God. Yet the prophet's mind thus enlightened
may be called a mirror, in so far as a likeness of the truth of the Divine foreknowledge is
formed therein, for which reason it is called the "mirror of eternity," as representing God's
foreknowledge, for God in His eternity sees all things as present before Him, as stated above
(Q. 172, A. 1).

Reply Obj. 1: The prophets are said to read the book of God's foreknowledge, inasmuch as the
truth is reflected from God's foreknowledge on the prophet's mind.

Reply Obj. 2: Man is said to see in the First Truth the type of his existence, in so far as
the image of the First Truth shines forth on man's mind, so that he is able to know himself.

Reply Obj. 3: From the very fact that future contingencies are in God according to unalterable
truth, it follows that God can impress a like knowledge on the prophet's mind without the prophet
seeing God in His essence.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 173, Art. 2]

Whether, in Prophetic Revelation, New Species of Things Are Impressed on the Prophet's Mind,
or Merely a New Light? For a gloss of Jerome on Amos 1:2 says that "prophets draw comparisons
from things with which they are conversant." But if prophetic vision were effected by means
of species newly impressed, the prophet's previous experience of things would be inoperative.
Therefore no new species are impressed on the prophet's soul, but only the prophetic light.

Obj. 2: Further, according to Augustine (Gen. ad lit. xii, 9), "it is not imaginative but intellective
vision that makes the prophet"; wherefore it is declared (Dan. 10:1) that "there is need of
understanding in a vision." Now intellective vision, as stated in the same book (Gen. ad lit.
xii, 6) is not effected by means of images, but by the very truth of things. Therefore it would
seem that prophetic revelation is not effected by impressing species on the soul.

Obj. 3: Further, by the gift of prophecy the Holy Ghost endows man with something that surpasses
the faculty of nature. Now man can by his natural faculties form all kinds of species of things.
Therefore it would seem that in prophetic revelation no new species of things are impressed,
but merely an intellectual light.

On the contrary, It is written (Osee 12:10): "I have multiplied" their "visions, and I have
used similitudes, by the ministry of the prophets." Now multiplicity of visions results, not
from a diversity of intellectual light, which is common to every prophetic vision, but from
a diversity of species, whence similitudes also result. Therefore it seems that in prophetic
revelation new species of things are impressed, and not merely an intellectual light.

I answer that, As Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 9), "prophetic knowledge pertains most
of all to the intellect." Now two things have to be considered in connection with the knowledge
possessed by the human mind, namely the acceptance or representation of things, and the judgment
of the things represented. Now things are represented to the human mind under the form of species:
and according to the order of nature, they must be represented first to the senses, secondly
to the imagination, thirdly to the passive intellect, and these are changed by the species
derived from the phantasms, which change results from the enlightening action of the active
intellect. Now in the imagination there are the forms of sensible things not only as received
from the senses, but also transformed in various ways, either on account of some bodily transformation
(as in the case of people who are asleep or out of their senses), or through the coordination
of the phantasms, at the command of reason, for the purpose of understanding something. For
just as the various arrangements of the letters of the alphabet convey various ideas to the
understanding, so the various coordinations of the phantasms produce various intelligible species
of the intellect.

As to the judgment formed by the human mind, it depends on the power of the intellectual light.

Now the gift of prophecy confers on the human mind something which surpasses the natural faculty
in both these respects, namely as to the judgment which depends on the inflow of intellectual
light, and as to the acceptance or representation of things, which is effected by means of
certain species. Human teaching may be likened to prophetic revelation in the second of these
respects, but not in the first. For a man represents certain things to his disciple by signs
of speech, but he cannot enlighten him inwardly as God does.

But it is the first of these two that holds the chief place in prophecy, since judgment is
the complement of knowledge. Wherefore if certain things are divinely represented to any man
by means of imaginary likenesses, as happened to Pharaoh (Gen. 41:1-7) and to Nabuchodonosor
(Dan. 4:1-2), or even by bodily likenesses, as happened to Balthasar (Dan. 5:5), such a man
is not to be considered a prophet, unless his mind be enlightened for the purpose of judgment;
and such an apparition is something imperfect in the genus of prophecy. Wherefore some [*Rabbi
Moyses, Doct. Perplex. II, xxxvi] have called this "prophetic ecstasy," and such is divination
by dreams. And yet a man will be a prophet, if his intellect be enlightened merely for the
purpose of judging of things seen in imagination by others, as in the case of Joseph who interpreted
Pharaoh's dream. But, as Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 9), "especially is he a prophet
who excels in both respects, so," to wit, "as to see in spirit likenesses significant of things
corporeal, and understand them by the quickness of his intellect."

Now sensible forms are divinely presented to the prophet's mind, sometimes externally by means
of the senses--thus Daniel saw the writing on the wall (Dan. 5:25)--sometimes by means of imaginary
forms, either of exclusively Divine origin and not received through the senses (for instance,
if images of colors were imprinted on the imagination of one blind from birth), or divinely
coordinated from those derived from the senses--thus Jeremiah saw the "boiling caldron . .
. from the face of the north" (Jer. 1:13)--or by the direct impression of intelligible species
on the mind, as in the case of those who receive infused scientific knowledge or wisdom, such
as Solomon or the apostles.

But intellectual light is divinely imprinted on the human mind--sometimes for the purpose of
judging of things seen by others, as in the case of Joseph, quoted above, and of the apostles
whose understanding our Lord opened "that they might understand the scriptures" (Luke 24:45);
and to this pertains the "interpretation of speeches"--sometimes for the purpose of judging
according to Divine truth, of the things which a man apprehends in the ordinary course of nature--sometimes
for the purpose of discerning truthfully and efficaciously what is to be done, according to
Isa. 63:14, "The Spirit of the Lord was their leader."

Hence it is evident that prophetic revelation is conveyed sometimes by the mere infusion of
light, sometimes by imprinting species anew, or by a new coordination of species.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above, sometimes in prophetic revelation imaginary species previously
derived from the senses are divinely coordinated so as to accord with the truth to be revealed,
and then previous experience is operative in the production of the images, but not when they
are impressed on the mind wholly from without.

Reply Obj. 2: Intellectual vision is not effected by means of bodily and individual images,
but by an intelligible image. Hence Augustine says (De Trin. ix, 11) that "the soul possesses
a certain likeness of the species known to it." Sometimes this intelligible image is, in prophetic
revelation, imprinted immediately by God, sometimes it results from pictures in the imagination,
by the aid of the prophetic light, since a deeper truth is gathered from these pictures in
the imagination by means of the enlightenment of the higher light.

Reply Obj. 3: It is true that man is able by his natural powers to form all kinds of pictures
in the imagination, by simply considering these pictures, but not so that they be directed
to the representation of intelligible truths that surpass his intellect, since for this purpose
he needs the assistance of a supernatural light.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 173, Art. 3]

Whether the Prophetic Vision Is Always Accompanied by Abstraction from the Senses?

Objection 1: It would seem that the prophetic vision is always accompanied by abstraction from
the senses. Now a gloss says at the beginning of the Psalter, "a vision that takes place by
dreams and apparitions consists of things which seem to be said or done." But when things seem
to be said or done, which are neither said nor done, there is abstraction from the senses.
Therefore prophecy is always accompanied by abstraction from the senses.

Obj. 2: Further, when one power is very intent on its own operation, other powers are drawn
away from theirs; thus men who are very intent on hearing something fail to see what takes
place before them. Now in the prophetic vision the intellect is very much uplifted, and intent
on its act. Therefore it seems that the prophetic vision is always accompanied by abstraction
from the senses.

Obj. 3: Further, the same thing cannot, at the same time, tend in opposite directions. Now
in the prophetic vision the mind tends to the acceptance of things from above, and consequently
it cannot at the same time tend to sensible objects. Therefore it would seem necessary for
prophetic revelation to be always accompanied by abstraction from the senses.

Obj. 4: On the contrary, It is written (1 Cor. 14:32): "The spirits of the prophets are subject
to the prophets." Now this were impossible if the prophet were not in possession of his faculties,
but abstracted from his senses. Therefore it would seem that prophetic vision is not accompanied
by abstraction from the senses.

I answer that, As stated in the foregoing Article, the prophetic revelation takes place in
four ways: namely, by the infusion of an intelligible light, by the infusion of intelligible
species, by impression or coordination of pictures in the imagination, and by the outward presentation
of sensible images. Now it is evident that there is no abstraction from the senses, when something
is presented to the prophet's mind by means of sensible species--whether these be divinely
formed for this special purpose, as the bush shown to Moses (Ex. 3:2), and the writing shown
to Daniel (Dan. 5:)--or whether they be produced by other causes; yet so that they are ordained
by Divine providence to be prophetically significant of something, as, for instance, the Church
was signified by the ark of Noah.

Again, abstraction from the external senses is not rendered necessary when the prophet's mind
is enlightened by an intellectual light, or impressed with intelligible species, since in us
the perfect judgment of the intellect is effected by its turning to sensible objects, which
are the first principles of our knowledge, as stated in the First Part (Q. 84, A. 6).

When, however, prophetic revelation is conveyed by images in the imagination, abstraction from
the senses is necessary lest the things thus seen in imagination be taken for objects of external
sensation. Yet this abstraction from the senses is sometimes complete, so that a man perceives
nothing with his senses; and sometimes it is incomplete, so that he perceives something with
his senses, yet does not fully discern the things he perceives outwardly from those he sees
in imagination. Hence Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 12): "Those images of bodies which
are formed in the soul are seen just as bodily things themselves are seen by the body, so that
we see with our eyes one who is present, and at the same time we see with the soul one who
is absent, as though we saw him with our eyes."

Yet this abstraction from the senses takes place in the prophets without subverting the order
of nature, as is the case with those who are possessed or out of their senses; but is due to
some well-ordered cause. This cause may be natural--for instance, sleep--or spiritual--for
instance, the intenseness of the prophets' contemplation; thus we read of Peter (Acts 10:9)
that while he was praying in the supper-room [*Vulg.: 'the house-top' or 'upper-chamber'] "he
fell into an ecstasy"--or he may be carried away by the Divine power, according to the saying
of Ezechiel 1:3: "The hand of the Lord was upon him."

Reply Obj. 1: The passage quoted refers to prophets in whom imaginary pictures were formed
or coordinated, either while asleep, which is denoted by the word "dream," or while awake,
which is signified by the word "vision."

Reply Obj. 2: When the mind is intent, in its act, upon distant things which are far removed
from the senses, the intensity of its application leads to abstraction from the senses; but
when it is intent, in its act, upon the coordination of or judgment concerning objects of sense,
there is no need for abstraction from the senses.

Reply Obj. 3: The movement of the prophetic mind results not from its own power, but from a
power acting on it from above. Hence there is no abstraction from the senses when the prophet's
mind is led to judge or coordinate matters relating to objects of sense, but only when the
mind is raised to the contemplation of certain more lofty things.

Reply Obj. 4: The spirit of the prophets is said to be subject to the prophets as regards the
prophetic utterances to which the Apostle refers in the words quoted; because, to wit, the
prophets in declaring what they have seen speak their own mind, and are not thrown off their
mental balance, like persons who are possessed, as Priscilla and Montanus maintained. But as
regards the prophetic revelation itself, it would be more correct to say that the prophets
are subject to the spirit of prophecy, i.e. to the prophetic gift.

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 173, Art. 4]

Whether Prophets Always Know the Things Which They Prophesy?

Objection 1: It would seem that the prophets always know the things which they prophesy. For,
as Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 9), "those to whom signs were shown in spirit by means
of the likenesses of bodily things, had not the gift of prophecy, unless the mind was brought
into action, so that those signs were also understood by them." Now what is understood cannot
be unknown. Therefore the prophet is not ignorant of what he prophesies.

Obj. 2: Further, the light of prophecy surpasses the light of natural reason. Now one who possesses
a science by his natural light, is not ignorant of his scientific acquirements. Therefore he
who utters things by the prophetic light cannot ignore them.

Obj. 3: Further, prophecy is directed for man's enlightenment; wherefore it is written (2 Pet.
1:19): "We have the more firm prophetical word, whereunto you do well to attend, as to a light
that shineth in a dark place." Now nothing can enlighten others unless it be lightsome in itself.
Therefore it would seem that the prophet is first enlightened so as to know what he declares
to others.

On the contrary, It is written (John 11:51): "And this he" Therefore not every prophet knows
what he prophesies.

I answer that, In prophetic revelation the prophet's mind is moved by the Holy Ghost, as an
instrument that is deficient in regard to the principal agent. Now the prophet's mind is moved
not only to apprehend something, but also to speak or to do something; sometimes indeed to
all these three together, sometimes to two, sometimes to one only, and in each case there may
be a defect in the prophet's knowledge. For when the prophet's mind is moved to think or apprehend
a thing, sometimes he is led merely to apprehend that thing, and sometimes he is further led
to know that it is divinely revealed to him.

Again, sometimes the prophet's mind is moved to speak something, so that he understands what
the Holy Ghost means by the words he utters; like David who said (2 Kings 23:2): "The Spirit
of the Lord hath spoken by me"; while, on the other hand, sometimes the person whose mind is
moved to utter certain words knows not what the Holy Ghost means by them, as was the case with
Caiphas (John 11:51).

Again, when the Holy Ghost moves a man's mind to do something, sometimes the latter understands
the meaning of it, like Jeremias who hid his loin-cloth in the Euphrates (Jer. 13:1-11); while
sometimes he does not understand it--thus the soldiers, who divided Christ's garments, understood
not the meaning of what they did.

Accordingly, when a man knows that he is being moved by the Holy Ghost to think something,
or signify something by word or deed, this belongs properly to prophecy; whereas when he is
moved, without his knowing it, this is not perfect prophecy, but a prophetic instinct. Nevertheless
it must be observed that since the prophet's mind is a defective instrument, as stated above,
even true prophets know not all that the Holy Ghost means by the things they see, or speak,
or even do.

And this suffices for the Replies to the Objections, since the arguments given at the beginning
refer to true prophets whose minds are perfectly enlightened from above.

QUESTION 174

OF THE DIVISION OF PROPHECY (SIX ARTICLES)

We must now consider the division of prophecy, and under this head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) The division of prophecy into its species;

(2) Whether the more excellent prophecy is that which is without imaginative vision?

(3) The various degrees of prophecy;

(4) Whether Moses was the greatest of the prophets?

(5) Whether a comprehensor can be a prophet?

(6) Whether prophecy advanced in perfection as time went on?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 174, Art. 1]

Whether Prophecy Is Fittingly Divided into the Prophecy of Divine Predestination, of Foreknowledge,
and of Denunciation?

Objection 1: It would seem that prophecy is unfittingly divided according to a gloss on Matt.
1:23, "Behold a virgin shall be with child," where it is stated that "one kind of prophecy
proceeds from the Divine predestination, and must in all respects be accomplished so that its
fulfillment is independent of our will, for instance the one in question. Another prophecy
proceeds from God's foreknowledge: and into this our will enters. And another prophecy is called
denunciation, which is significative of God's disapproval." For that which results from every
prophecy should not be reckoned a part of prophecy. Now all prophecy is according to the Divine
foreknowledge, since the prophets "read in the book of foreknowledge," as a gloss says on Isa.
38:1. Therefore it would seem that prophecy according to foreknowledge should not be reckoned
a species of prophecy.

Obj. 2: Further, just as something is foretold in denunciation, so is something foretold in
promise, and both of these are subject to alteration. I will repent of the good that I have
spoken to do unto it." Therefore as there is reckoned to be a prophecy of denunciation, so
should there be a prophecy of promise.

Obj. 3: Further, Isidore says (Etym. vii, 8): "There are seven kinds of prophecy. The first
is an ecstasy, which is the transport of the mind: thus Peter saw a vessel descending from
heaven with all manner of beasts therein. The second kind is a vision, as we read in Isaias,
who says (Isa. 6:1): 'I saw the Lord sitting,' etc. The third kind is a dream: thus Jacob in
a dream, saw a ladder. The fourth kind is from the midst of a cloud: thus God spake to Moses.
The fifth kind is a voice from heaven, as that which called to Abraham saying (Gen. 22:11):
'Lay not thy hand upon the boy.' The sixth kind is taking up a parable, as in the example of
Balaam (Num. 23:7; 24:15). The seventh kind is the fullness of the Holy Ghost, as in the case
of nearly all the prophets." Further, he mentions three kinds of vision; "one by the eyes of
the body, another by the soul's imagination, a third by the eyes of the mind." Now these are
not included in the aforesaid division. Therefore it is insufficient.

On the contrary, stands the authority of Jerome to whom the gloss above quoted is ascribed.

I answer that, The species of moral habits and acts are distinguished according to their objects.
Now the object of prophecy is something known by God and surpassing the faculty of man. Wherefore,
according to the difference of such things, prophecy is divided into various species, as assigned
above. Now it has been stated above (Q. 71, A. 6, ad 2) that the future is contained in the
Divine knowledge in two ways. First, as in its cause: and thus we have the prophecy of denunciation,
which is not always fulfilled. but it foretells the relation of cause to effect, which is sometimes
hindered by some other occurrence supervening. Secondly, God foreknows certain things in themselves--either
as to be accomplished by Himself, and of such things is the prophecy of predestination, since,
according to Damascene (De Fide Orth. ii, 30), "God predestines things which are not in our
power"--or as to be accomplished through man's free-will, and of such is the prophecy of foreknowledge.
This may regard either good or evil, which does not apply to the prophecy of predestination,
since the latter regards good alone. And since predestination is comprised under foreknowledge,
the gloss in the beginning of the Psalter assigns only two species to prophecy, namely of foreknowledge,
and of denunciation.

Reply Obj. 1: Foreknowledge, properly speaking, denotes precognition of future events in themselves,
and in this sense it is reckoned a species of prophecy. But in so far as it is used in connection
with future events, whether as in themselves, or as in their causes, it is common to every
species of prophecy.

Reply Obj. 2: The prophecy of promise is included in the prophecy of denunciation, because
the aspect of truth is the same in both. But it is denominated in preference from denunciation,
because God is more inclined to remit punishment than to withdraw promised blessings.

Reply Obj. 3: Isidore divides prophecy according to the manner of prophesying. Now we may distinguish
the manner of prophesying--either according to man's cognitive powers, which are sense, imagination,
and intellect, and then we have the three kinds of vision mentioned both by him and by Augustine
(Gen. ad lit. xii, 6, 7)--or according to the different ways in which the prophetic current
is received. Thus as regards the enlightening of the intellect there is the "fullness of the
Holy Ghost" which he mentions in the seventh place. As to the imprinting of pictures on the
imagination he mentions three, namely "dreams," to which he gives the third place; "vision,"
which occurs to the prophet while awake and regards any kind of ordinary object, and this he
puts in the second place; and "ecstasy," which results from the mind being uplifted to certain
lofty things, and to this he assigns the first place. As regards sensible signs he reckons
three kinds of prophecy, because a sensible sign is--either a corporeal thing offered externally
to the sight, such as "a cloud," which he mentions in the fourth place--or a "voice" sounding
from without and conveyed to man's hearing--this he puts in the fifth place--or a voice proceeding
from a man, conveying something under a similitude, and this pertains to the "parable" to which
he assigns the sixth place.

SECOND ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 174, Art. 2]

Whether the Prophecy Which Is Accompanied by Intellective and Imaginative Vision Is More Excellent
Than That Which Is Accompanied by Intellective Vision Alone?

Objection 1: It would seem that the prophecy which has intellective and imaginative vision
is more excellent than that which is accompanied by intellective vision alone. For Augustine
says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 9): "He is less a prophet, who sees in spirit nothing but the signs
representative of things, by means of the images of things corporeal: he is more a prophet,
who is merely endowed with the understanding of these signs; but most of all is he a prophet,
who excels in both ways," and this refers to the prophet who has intellective together with
imaginative vision. Therefore this kind of prophecy is more excellent.

Obj. 2: Further, the greater a thing's power is, the greater the distance to which it extends.
Now the prophetic light pertains chiefly to the mind, as stated above (Q. 173, A. 2). Therefore
apparently the prophecy that extends to the imagination is greater than that which is confined
to the intellect.

Obj. 3: Further, Jerome (Prol. in Lib. Reg.) distinguishes the "prophets" from the "sacred
writers." Now all those whom he calls prophets (such as Isaias, Jeremias, and the like) had
intellective together with imaginative vision: but not those whom he calls sacred writers,
as writing by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost (such as Job, David, Solomon, and the like).
Therefore it would seem more proper to call prophets those who had intellective together with
imaginative vision, than those who had intellective vision alone.

Obj. 4: Further, Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. i) that "it is impossible for the Divine ray to
shine on us, except as screened round about by the many-colored sacred veils." Now the prophetic
revelation is conveyed by the infusion of the divine ray. Therefore it seems that it cannot
be without the veils of phantasms.

On the contrary, A gloss says at the beginning of the Psalter that "the most excellent manner
of prophecy is when a man prophesies by the mere inspiration of the Holy Ghost, apart from
any outward assistance of deed, word, vision, or dream."

I answer that, The excellence of the means is measured chiefly by the end. Now the end of prophecy
is the manifestation of a truth that surpasses the faculty of man. Wherefore the more effective
this manifestation is, the more excellent the prophecy. But it is evident that the manifestation
of divine truth by means of the bare contemplation of the truth itself, is more effective than
that which is conveyed under the similitude of corporeal things, for it approaches nearer to
the heavenly vision whereby the truth is seen in God's essence. Hence it follows that the prophecy
whereby a supernatural truth is seen by intellectual vision, is more excellent than that in
which a supernatural truth is manifested by means of the similitudes of corporeal things in
the vision of the imagination.

Moreover the prophet's mind is shown thereby to be more lofty: even as in human teaching the
hearer, who is able to grasp the bare intelligible truth the master propounds, is shown to
have a better understanding than one who needs to be taken by the hand and helped by means
of examples taken from objects of sense. Hence it is said in commendation of David's prophecy
(2 Kings 23:3): "The strong one of Israel spoke to me," and further on (2 Kings 23:4): "As
the light of the morning, when the sun riseth, shineth in the morning without clouds."

Reply Obj. 1: When a particular supernatural truth has to be revealed by means of corporeal
images, he that has both, namely the intellectual light and the imaginary vision, is more a
prophet than he that has only one, because his prophecy is more perfect; and it is in this
sense that Augustine speaks as quoted above. Nevertheless the prophecy in which the bare intelligible
truth is revealed is greater than all.

Reply Obj. 2: The same judgment does not apply to things that are sought for their own sake,
as to things sought for the sake of something else. For in things sought for their own sake,
the agent's power is the more effective according as it extends to more numerous and more remote
objects; even so a physician is thought more of, if he is able to heal more people, and those
who are further removed from health. On the other hand, in things sought only for the sake
of something else, that agent would seem to have greater power, who is able to achieve his
purpose with fewer means and those nearest to hand: thus more praise is awarded the physician
who is able to heal a sick person by means of fewer and more gentle remedies. Now, in the prophetic
knowledge, imaginary vision is required, not for its own sake, but on account of the manifestation
of the intelligible truth. Wherefore prophecy is all the more excellent according as it needs
it less.

Reply Obj. 3: The fact that a particular predicate is applicable to one thing and less properly
to another, does not prevent this latter from being simply better than the former: thus the
knowledge of the blessed is more excellent than the knowledge of the wayfarer, although faith
is more properly predicated of the latter knowledge, because faith implies an imperfection
of knowledge. In like manner prophecy implies a certain obscurity, and remoteness from the
intelligible truth; wherefore the name of prophet is more properly applied to those who see
by imaginary vision. And yet the more excellent prophecy is that which is conveyed by intellectual
vision, provided the same truth be revealed in either case. If, however, the intellectual light
be divinely infused in a person, not that he may know some supernatural things, but that he
may be able to judge, with the certitude of divine truth, of things that can be known by human
reason, such intellectual prophecy is beneath that which is conveyed by an imaginary vision
leading to a supernatural truth. It was this kind of prophecy that all those had who are included
in the ranks of the prophets, who moreover were called prophets for the special reason that
they exercised the prophetic calling officially. Hence they spoke as God's representatives,
saying to the people: "Thus saith the Lord": but not so the authors of the sacred writings,
several of whom treated more frequently of things that can be known by human reason, not in
God's name, but in their own, yet with the assistance of the Divine light withal.

Reply Obj. 4: In the present life the enlightenment by the divine ray is not altogether without
any veil of phantasms, because according to his present state of life it is unnatural to man
not to understand without a phantasm. Sometimes, however, it is sufficient to have phantasms
abstracted in the usual way from the senses without any imaginary vision divinely vouchsafed,
and thus prophetic vision is said to be without imaginary vision.

THIRD ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 174, Art. 3]

Whether the Degrees of Prophecy Can Be Distinguished According to the Imaginary Vision?

Objection 1: It would seem that the degrees of prophecy cannot be distinguished according to
the imaginary vision. For the degrees of a thing bear relation to something that is on its
own account, not on account of something else. Now, in prophecy, intellectual vision is sought
on its own account, and imaginary vision on account of something else, as stated above (A.
2, ad 2). Therefore it would seem that the degrees of prophecy are distinguished not according
to imaginary, but only according to intellectual, vision.

Obj. 2: Further, seemingly for one prophet there is one degree of prophecy. Now one prophet
receives revelation through various imaginary visions. Therefore a difference of imaginary
visions does not entail a difference of prophecy.

Obj. 3: Further, according to a gloss [*Cassiodorus, super Prolog. Hieron. in Psalt.], prophecy
consists of words, deeds, dreams, and visions. Therefore the degrees of prophecy should not
be distinguished according to imaginary vision, to which vision and dreams pertain, rather
than according to words and deeds.

On the contrary, The medium differentiates the degrees of knowledge: thus science based on
direct [*Propter quid] proofs is more excellent than science based on indirect [*Quia] premises
or than opinion, because it comes through a more excellent medium. Now imaginary vision is
a kind of medium in prophetic knowledge. Therefore the degrees of prophecy should be distinguished
according to imaginary vision.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 173, A. 2), the prophecy wherein, by the intelligible light,
a supernatural truth is revealed through an imaginary vision, holds the mean between the prophecy
wherein a supernatural truth is revealed without imaginary vision, and that wherein through
the intelligible light and without an imaginary vision, man is directed to know or do things
pertaining to human conduct. Now knowledge is more proper to prophecy than is action; wherefore
the lowest degree of prophecy is when a man, by an inward instinct, is moved to perform some
outward action. Thus it is related of Samson (Judges 15:14) that "the Spirit of the Lord came
strongly upon him, and as the flax [*Lina. St. Thomas apparently read ligna ('wood')] is wont
to be consumed at the approach of fire, so the bands with which he was bound were broken and
loosed."

Nevertheless these two degrees are beneath prophecy properly so called, because they do not
attain to supernatural truth. The prophecy wherein supernatural truth is manifested through
imaginary vision is differentiated first according to the difference between dreams which occur
during sleep, and vision which occurs while one is awake. The latter belongs to a higher degree
of prophecy, since the prophetic light that draws the soul away to supernatural things while
it is awake and occupied with sensible things would seem to be stronger than that which finds
a man's soul asleep and withdrawn from objects of sense. Secondly the degrees of this prophecy
are differentiated according to the expressiveness of the imaginary signs whereby the intelligible
truth is conveyed. And since words are the most expressive signs of intelligible truth, it
would seem to be a higher degree of prophecy when the prophet, whether awake or asleep, hears
words expressive of an intelligible truth, than when he sees things significative of truth,
for instance "the seven full ears of corn" signified "seven years of plenty" (Gen. 41:22, 26).
In such like signs prophecy would seem to be the more excellent, according as the signs are
more expressive, for instance when Jeremias saw the burning of the city under the figure of
a boiling cauldron (Jer. 1:13). Thirdly, it is evidently a still higher degree of prophecy
when a prophet not only sees signs of words or deeds, but also, either awake or asleep, sees
someone speaking or showing something to him, since this proves the prophet's mind to have
approached nearer to the cause of the revelation. Fourthly, the height of a degree of prophecy
may be measured according to the appearance of the person seen: for it is a higher degree of
prophecy, if he who speaks or shows something to the waking or sleeping prophet be seen by
him under the form of an angel, than if he be seen by him under the form of man: and higher
still is it, if he be seen by the prophet whether asleep or awake, under the appearance of
God, according to Isa. 6:1, "I saw the Lord sitting."

But above all these degrees there is a third kind of prophecy, wherein an intelligible and
supernatural truth is shown without any imaginary vision. However, this goes beyond the bounds
of prophecy properly so called, as stated above (A. 2, ad 3); and consequently the degrees
of prophecy are properly distinguished according to imaginary vision.

Reply Obj. 1: We are unable to know how to distinguish the intellectual light, except by means
of imaginary or sensible signs. Hence the difference in the intellectual light is gathered
from the difference in the things presented to the imagination.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 171, A. 2), prophecy is by way, not of an abiding habit,
but of a transitory passion; wherefore there is nothing inconsistent if one and the same prophet,
at different times, receive various degrees of prophetic revelation.

Reply Obj. 3: The words and deeds mentioned there do not pertain to the prophetic revelation,
but to the announcement, which is made according to the disposition of those to whom that which
is revealed to the prophet is announced; and this is done sometimes by words, sometimes by
deeds. Now this announcement, and the working of miracles, are something consequent upon prophecy,
as stated above (Q. 171, A. 1).

FOURTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 174, Art. 4]

Whether Moses Was the Greatest of the Prophets?

Objection 1: It would seem that Moses was not the greatest of the prophets. For a gloss at
the beginning of the Psalter says that "David is called the prophet by way of excellence."
Therefore Moses was not the greatest of all.

Obj. 2: Further, greater miracles were wrought by Josue, who made the sun and moon to stand
still (Josh. 10:12-14), and by Isaias, who made the sun to turn back (Isa. 38:8), than by Moses,
who divided the Red Sea (Ex. 14:21). In like manner greater miracles were wrought by Elias,
of whom it is written (Ecclus. 48:4, 5): "Who can glory like to thee? Who raisedst up a dead
man from below." Therefore Moses was not the greatest of the prophets.

Obj. Therefore Moses was not greater than all the prophets.

On the contrary, It is written (Deut. 34:10): "There arose no more a prophet in Israel like
unto Moses."

I answer that, Although in some respect one or other of the prophets was greater than Moses,
yet Moses was simply the greatest of all. For, as stated above (A. 3; Q. 171, A. 1), in prophecy
we may consider not only the knowledge, whether by intellectual or by imaginary vision, but
also the announcement and the confirmation by miracles. Accordingly Moses was greater than
the other prophets. First, as regards the intellectual vision, since he saw God's very essence,
even as Paul in his rapture did, according to Augustine (Gen. ad lit. xii, 27). Hence it is
written (Num. 12:8) that he saw God "plainly and not by riddles." Secondly, as regards the
imaginary vision, which he had at his call, as it were, for not only did he hear words, but
also saw one speaking to him under the form of God, and this not only while asleep, but even
when he was awake. Hence it is written (Ex. 33:11) that "the Lord spoke to Moses face to face,
as a man is wont to speak to his friend." Thirdly, as regards the working of miracles which
he wrought on a whole nation of unbelievers. Wherefore it is written (Deut.

Reply Obj. 1: The prophecy of David approaches near to the vision of Moses, as regards the
intellectual vision, because both received a revelation of intelligible and supernatural truth,
without any imaginary vision. Yet the vision of Moses was more excellent as regards the knowledge
of the Godhead; while David more fully knew and expressed the mysteries of Christ's incarnation.

Reply Obj. 2: These signs of the prophets mentioned were greater as to the substance of the
thing done; yet the miracles of Moses were greater as regards the way in which they were done,
since they were wrought on a whole people.

Reply Obj. 3: John belongs to the New Testament, whose ministers take precedence even of Moses,
since they are spectators of a fuller revelation, as stated in 2 Cor. 3.

FIFTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 174, Art. 6]

Whether There Is a Degree of Prophecy in the Blessed?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is a degree of prophecy in the blessed. For, as stated
above (A. 4), Moses saw the Divine essence, and yet he is called a prophet. Therefore in like
manner the blessed can be called prophets.

Obj. 2: Further, prophecy is a "divine revelation." Now divine revelations are made even to
the blessed angels. Therefore even blessed angels can be prophets.

Obj. 3: Further, Christ was a comprehensor from the moment of His conception; and yet He calls
Himself a prophet (Matt. 13:57), when He says: "A prophet is not without honor, save in his
own country." Therefore even comprehensors and the blessed can be called prophets.

Obj. 4: Further, it is written of Samuel (Ecclus. 46:23): "He lifted up his voice from the
earth in prophecy to blot out the wickedness of the nation." Therefore other saints can likewise
be called prophets after they have died.

On the contrary, The prophetic word is compared (2 Pet. 1:19) to a "light that shineth in a
dark place." Now there is no darkness in the blessed. Therefore they cannot be called prophets.

I answer that, Prophecy denotes vision of some supernatural truth as being far remote from
us. This happens in two ways. First, on the part of the knowledge itself, because, to wit,
the supernatural truth is not known in itself, but in some of its effects; and this truth will
be more remote if it be known by means of images of corporeal things, than if it be known in
its intelligible effects; and such most of all is the prophetic vision, which is conveyed by
images and likenesses of corporeal things. Secondly, vision is remote on the part of the seer,
because, to wit, he has not yet attained completely to his ultimate perfection, according to
2 Cor. 5:6, "While we are in the body, we are absent from the Lord."

Now in neither of these ways are the blessed remote; wherefore they cannot be called prophets.

Reply Obj. 1: This vision of Moses was interrupted after the manner of a passion, and was not
permanent like the beatific vision, wherefore he was as yet a seer from afar. For this reason
his vision did not entirely lose the character of prophecy.

Reply Obj. 2: The divine revelation is made to the angels, not as being far distant, but as
already wholly united to God; wherefore their revelation has not the character of prophecy.

Reply Obj. 3: Christ was at the same time comprehensor and wayfarer [*Cf. III, QQ. 9, seqq.].
Consequently the notion of prophecy is not applicable to Him as a comprehensor, but only as
a wayfarer.

Reply Obj. 4: Samuel had not yet attained to the state of blessedness. Wherefore although by
God's will the soul itself of Samuel foretold to Saul the issue of the war as revealed to him
by God, this pertains to the nature of prophecy. It is not the same with the saints who are
now in heaven. Nor does it make any difference that this is stated to have been brought about
by the demons' art, because although the demons are unable to evoke the soul of a saint, or
to force it to do any particular thing, this can be done by the power of God, so that when
the demon is consulted, God Himself declares the truth by His messenger: even as He gave a
true answer by Elias to the King's messengers who were sent to consult the god of Accaron (4
Kings 1).

It might also be replied [*The Book of Ecclesiasticus was not as yet declared by the Church
to be Canonical Scripture; Cf. I, Q. 89, A. 8, ad 2] that it was not the soul of Samuel, but
a demon impersonating him; and that the wise man calls him Samuel, and describes his prediction
as prophetic, in accordance with the thoughts of Saul and the bystanders who were of this opinion.

SIXTH ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 174, Art. 6]

Whether the Degrees of Prophecy Change As Time Goes On?

Objection 1: It would seem that the degrees of prophecy change as time goes on. For prophecy
is directed to the knowledge of Divine things, as stated above (A. 2). Now according to Gregory
(Hom. in Ezech.), "knowledge of God went on increasing as time went on." Therefore degrees
of prophecy should be distinguished according to the process of time.

Obj. 2: Further, prophetic revelation is conveyed by God speaking to man; while the prophets
declared both in words and in writing the things revealed to them. Now it is written (1 Kings
3:1) that before the time of Samuel "the word of the Lord was precious," i.e. rare; and yet
afterwards it was delivered to many. In like manner the books of the prophets do not appear
to have been written before the time of Isaias, to whom it was said (Isa. 8:1): "Take thee
a great book and write in it with a man's pen," after which many prophets wrote their prophecies.
Therefore it would seem that in course of time the degree of prophecy made progress.

Obj. 3: Further, our Lord said (Matt. 11:13): "The prophets and the law prophesied until John";
and afterwards the gift of prophecy was in Christ's disciples in a much more excellent manner
than in the prophets of old, according to Eph. Therefore it would seem that in course of time
the degree of prophecy advanced.

On the contrary, As stated above (A. 4), Moses was the greatest of the prophets, and yet he
preceded the other prophets. Therefore prophecy did not advance in degree as time went on.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), prophecy is directed to the knowledge of Divine truth,
by the contemplation of which we are not only instructed in faith, but also guided in our actions,
according to Ps. 42:3, "Send forth Thy light and Thy truth: they have conducted me." Now our
faith consists chiefly in two things: first, in the true knowledge of God, according to Heb.
11:6, "He that cometh to God must believe that He is"; secondly, in the mystery of Christ's
incarnation, according to John 14:1, "You believe in God, believe also in Me." Accordingly,
if we speak of prophecy as directed to the Godhead as its end, it progressed according to three
divisions of time, namely before the law, under the law, and under grace. For before the law,
Abraham and the other patriarchs were prophetically taught things pertinent to faith in the
Godhead. Hence they are called prophets, according to Ps. 104:15, "Do no evil to My prophets,"
which words are said especially on behalf of Abraham and Isaac. Under the Law prophetic revelation
of things pertinent to faith in the Godhead was made in a yet more excellent way than hitherto,
because then not only certain special persons or families but the whole people had to be instructed
in these matters. Hence the Lord said to Moses (Ex. 3:14): "I am Who am"; and this name is
signified by Jews in the word "Adonai" on account of their veneration for that unspeakable name.

In each state, however, the most excellent revelation was that which was given first. Now the
first revelation, before the Law, was given to Abraham, for it was at that time that men began
to stray from faith in one God by turning aside to idolatry, whereas hitherto no such revelation
was necessary while all persevered in the worship of one God. A less excellent revelation was
made to Isaac, being founded on that which was made to Abraham. Wherefore it was said to him
(Gen. 26:24): "I am the God of Abraham thy father," and in like manner to Jacob (Gen. 28:13):
"I am the God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac." Again in the state of the Law the
first revelation which was given to Moses was more excellent, and on this revelation all the
other revelations to the prophets were founded. And so, too, in the time of grace the entire
faith of the Church is founded on the revelation vouchsafed to the apostles, concerning the
faith in one God and three Persons, according to Matt. 16:18, "On this rock," i.e. of thy confession,
"I will build My Church."

As to the faith in Christ's incarnation, it is evident that the nearer men were to Christ,
whether before or after Him, the more fully, for the most part, were they instructed on this
point, and after Him more fully than before, as the Apostle declares (Eph. 3:5).

Reply Obj. 1: The saying of Gregory is to be referred to the time before Christ's incarnation,
as regards the knowledge of this mystery.

Reply Obj. 2: As Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xviii, 27), "just as in the early days of the
Assyrian kingdom promises were made most explicitly to Abraham, so at the outset of the western
Babylon," which is Rome, "and under its sway Christ was to come, in Whom were to be fulfilled
the promises made through the prophetic oracles testifying in word and writing to that great
event to come," the promises, namely, which were made to Abraham. "For while prophets were
scarcely ever lacking to the people of Israel from the time that they began to have kings,
it was exclusively for their benefit, not for that of the nations. But when those prophetic
writings were being set up with greater publicity, which at some future time were to benefit
the nations, it was fitting to begin when this city," Rome to wit, "was being built, which
was to govern the nations."

The reason why it behooved that nation to have a number of prophets especially at the time
of the kings, was that then it was not over-ridden by other nations, but had its own king;
wherefore it behooved the people, as enjoying liberty, to have prophets to teach them what to do.

Reply Obj. 3: The prophets who foretold the coming of Christ could not continue further than
John, who with his finger pointed to Christ actually present. Nevertheless as Jerome says on
this passage, "This does not mean that there were no more prophets after John. For we read
in the Acts of the apostles that Agabus and the four maidens, daughters of Philip, prophesied."
John, too, wrote a prophetic book about the end of the Church; and at all times there have
not been lacking persons having the spirit of prophecy, not indeed for the declaration of any
new doctrine of faith, but for the direction of human acts. Thus Augustine says (De Civ. Dei
v, 26) that "the emperor Theodosius sent to John who dwelt in the Egyptian desert, and whom
he knew by his ever-increasing fame to be endowed with the prophetic spirit: and from him he
received a message assuring him of victory."

QUESTION 175

OF RAPTURE (In Six Articles)

We must now consider rapture. Under this head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the soul of man is carried away to things divine?

(2) Whether rapture pertains to the cognitive or to the appetitive power?

(3) Whether Paul when in rapture saw the essence of God?

(4) Whether he was withdrawn from his senses?

(5) Whether, when in that state, his soul was wholly separated from his body?

(6) What did he know, and what did he not know about this matter?

FIRST ARTICLE [II-II, Q. 175, Art. 1]

Whether the Soul of Man Is Carried Away to Things Divine?

Objection 1: It would seem that the soul of man is not carried away to things divine. For some
define rapture as "an uplifting by the power of a higher nature, from that which is according
to nature to that which is above nature" [*Reference unknown; Cf. De Veritate xiii, 1]. Now
it is in accordance with man's nature that he be uplifted to things divine; for Augustine says
at the beginning of his Confessions: "Thou madest us, Lord, for Thyself, and our heart is restless,
till it rest in Thee." Therefore man's soul is not carried away to things divine.

Obj. 2: Further, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. viii) that "God's justice is seen in this that He
treats all things according to their mode and dignity." But it is not in accordance with man's
mode and worth that he be raised above what he is according to nature. Therefore it would seem
that man's soul is not carried away to things divine.

Obj. 3: Further, rapture denotes violence of some kind. But God rules us not by violence or
force, as Damascene says [*De Fide Orth. ii, 30]. Therefore man's soul is not carried away
to things divine.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (2 Cor. 12:2): "I know a man in Christ . . . rapt even to
the third heaven." On which words a gloss says: "Rapt, that is to say, uplifted contrary to
nature."

I answer that, Rapture denotes violence of a kind as stated above (Obj. 3); and "the violent
is that which has its principle without, and in which he that suffers violence concurs not
at all" (Ethic. iii, 1). Now everything concurs in that to which it tends in accordance with
its proper inclination, whether voluntary or natural. Wherefore he who is carried away by some
external agent, must be carried to something different from that to which his inclination tends.
This difference arises in two ways: in one way from the end of the inclination--for instance
a stone, which is naturally inclined to be borne downwards, may be thrown upwards; in another
way from the manner of tending--for instance a stone may be thrown downwards with greater velocity
than consistent with its natural movement.

Accordingly man's soul also is said to be carried away, in a twofold manner, to that which
is contrary to its nature: in one way, as regards the term of transport--as when it is carried
away to punishment, according to Ps. 49:22, "Lest He snatch you away, and there be none to
deliver you"; in another way, as regards the manner connatural to man, which is that he should
understand the truth through sensible things. Hence when he is withdrawn from the apprehension
of sensibles, he is said to be carried away, even though he be uplifted to things whereunto
he is directed naturally: provided this be not done intentionally, as when a man betakes himself
to sleep which is in accordance with nature, wherefore sleep cannot be called rapture, properly
speaking.

This withdrawal, whatever its term may be, may arise from a threefold cause. First, from a
bodily cause, as happens to those who suffer abstraction from the senses through weakness:
secondly, by the power of the demons, as in those who are possessed: thirdly, by the power
of God. In this last sense we are now speaking of rapture, whereby a man is uplifted by the
spirit of God to things supernatural, and withdrawn from his senses, according to Ezech. 8:3,
"The spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heaven, and brought me in the vision of
God into Jerusalem."

It must be observed, however, that sometimes a person is said to be carried away, not only
through being withdrawn from his senses, but also through being withdrawn from the things to
which he was attending, as when a person's mind wanders contrary to his purpose. But this is
to use the expression in a less proper signification.

Reply Obj. But the mode, whereby a man is uplifted to divine things and withdrawn from his
senses, is not natural to man.

