CHAPTER LIII.

There is an instance of the absorbing tyranny of every-day life which must have struck all
such of my readers as have ever experienced one of those portents which are so at variance
with every-day life, that the ordinary epithet bestowed on them is "supernatural."

And be my readers few or many, there will be no small proportion of them to whom once, at least,
in the course of their existence, a something strange and eerie has occurred,--a something
which perplexed and baffled rational conjecture, and struck on those chords which vibrate to
superstition.  It may have been only a dream unaccountably verified,--an undefinable presentiment
or forewarning; but up from such slighter and vaguer tokens of the realm of marvel, up to the
portents of ghostly apparitions or haunted chambers, I believe that the greater number of persons
arrived at middle age, however instructed the class, however civilized the land, however sceptical
the period, to which they belong, have either in themselves experienced, or heard recorded
by intimate associates whose veracity they accept as indisputable in all ordinary transactions
of life, phenomena which are not to be solved by the wit that mocks them, nor, perhaps, always
and entirely, to the contentment of the reason or the philosophy that explains them away. 
Such phenomena, I say, are infinitely more numerous than would appear from the instances currently
quoted and dismissed with a jest; for few of those who have witnessed them are disposed to
own it, and they who only hear of them through others, however trustworthy, would not impugn
their character for common-sense by professing a belief to which common-sense is a merciless
persecutor.  But he who reads my assertion in the quiet of his own room, will perhaps pause,
ransack his memory, and find there, in some dark corner which he excludes from "the babbling
and remorseless day," a pale recollection that proves the assertion not untrue.

And it is, I say, an instance of the absorbing tyranny of everyday life, that whenever some
such startling incident disturbs its regular tenor of thought and occupation, that same every-day
life hastens to bury in its sands the object which has troubled its surface; the more unaccountable,
the more prodigious, has been the phenomenon which has scared and astounded us, the more, with
involuntary effort, the mind seeks to rid itself of an enigma which might disease the reason
that tries to solve it. We go about our mundane business with renewed avidity; we feel the
necessity of proving to ourselves that we are still sober, practical men, and refuse to be
unfitted for the world which we know, by unsolicited visitations from worlds into which every
glimpse is soon lost amid shadows.  And it amazes us to think how soon such incidents, though
not actually forgotten, though they can be recalled--and recalled too vividly for health--at
our will, are nevertheless thrust, as it were, out of the mind's sight as we cast into lumber-rooms
the crutches and splints that remind us of a broken limb which has recovered its strength and
tone.  It is a felicitous peculiarity in our organization, which all members of my profession
will have noticed, how soon, when a bodily pain is once passed, it becomes erased from the
recollection,--how soon and how invariably the mind refuses to linger over and recall it. 
No man freed an hour before from a raging toothache, the rack of a neuralgia, seats himself
in his armchair to recollect and ponder upon the anguish he has undergone.  It is the same
with certain afflictions of the mind,--not with those that strike on our affections, or blast
our fortunes, overshadowing our whole future with a sense of loss; but where a trouble or calamity
has been an accident, an episode in our wonted life, where it affects ourselves alone, where
it is attended with a sense of shame and humiliation, where the pain of recalling it seems
idle, and if indulged would almost madden us,--agonies of that kind we do not brood over as
we do over the death or falsehood of beloved friends, or the train of events by which we are
reduced from wealth to penury.  No one, for instance, who has escaped from a shipwreck, from
the brink of a precipice, from the jaws of a tiger, spends his days and nights in reviving
his terrors past, re-imagining dangers not to occur again, or, if they do occur, from which
the experience undergone can suggest no additional safeguards.  The current of our life, indeed,
like that of the rivers, is most rapid in the midmost channel, where all streams are alike
comparatively slow in the depth and along the shores in which each life, as each river, has
a character peculiar to itself.  And hence, those who would sail with the tide of the world,
as those who sail with the tide of a river, hasten to take the middle of the stream, as those
who sail against the tide are found clinging to the shore.  I returned to my habitual duties
and avocations with renewed energy; I did not suffer my thoughts to dwell on the dreary wonders
that had haunted me, from the evening I first met Sir Philip Derval to the morning on which
I had quitted the house of his heir; whether realities or hallucinations, no guess of mine
could unravel such marvels, and no prudence of mine guard me against their repetition.  But
I had no fear that they would be repeated, any more than the man who had gone through shipwreck,
or the hairbreadth escape from a fall down a glacier, fears again to be found in a similar
peril.  Margrave had departed, whither I knew not, and, with his departure, ceased all sense
of his influence.  A certain calm within me, a tranquillizing feeling of relief, seemed to
me like a pledge of permanent delivery.

But that which did accompany and haunt me, through all my occupations and pursuits, was the
melancholy remembrance of the love I had lost in Lilian. I heard from Mrs. Ashleigh, who still
frequently visited me, that her daughter seemed much in the same quiet state of mind,--perfectly
reconciled to our separation, seldom mentioning my name, if mentioning it, with indifference;
the only thing remarkable in her state was her aversion to all society, and a kind of lethargy
that would come over her, often in the daytime.  She would suddenly fall into sleep and so
remain for hours, but a sleep that seemed very serene and tranquil, and from which she woke
of herself.  She kept much within her own room, and always retired to it when visitors were
announced.

Mrs. Ashleigh began reluctantly to relinquish the persuasion she had so long and so obstinately
maintained, that this state of feeling towards myself--and, indeed, this general change in
Lilian--was but temporary and abnormal; she began to allow that it was best to drop all thoughts
ofa renewed engagement,--a future union.  I proposed to see Lilian in her presence and in my
professional capacity; perhaps some physical cause, especially for this lethargy, might be
detected and removed.  Mrs. Ashleigh owned to me that the idea had occurred to herself: she
had sounded Lilian upon it: but her daughter had so resolutely opposed it,--had said with so
quiet a firmness "that all being over between us, a visit from me would be unwelcome and painful,"--that
Mrs. Ashleigh felt that an interview thus deprecated would only confirm estrangement.  One
day, in calling, she asked my advice whether it would not be better to try the effect of change
of air and scene, and, in some other place, some other medical opinion might be taken?  I approved
of this suggestion with unspeakable sadness.

"And," said Mrs. Ashleigh, shedding tears, "if that experiment prove unsuccessful, I will write
and let you know; and we must then consider what to say to the world as a reason why the marriage
is broken off.  I can render this more easy by staying away.  I will not return to L---- till
the matter has ceased to be the topic of talk, and at a distance any excuse will be less questioned
and seem more natural.  But still--still--let us hope still."

"Have you one ground for hope?"

"Perhaps so; but you will think it very frail and fallacious."

"Name it, and let me judge."

"One night--in which you were on a visit to Derval Court--"

"Ay, that night."

"Lilian woke me by a loud cry (she sleeps in the next room to me, and the door was left open);
I hastened to her bedside in alarm; she was asleep, but appeared extremely agitated and convulsed.
She kept calling on your name in a tone of passionate fondness, but as if in great terror.
She cried, 'Do not go, Allen--do not go--you know not what you brave!--what you do!'  Then
she rose in her bed, clasping her hands.  Her face was set and rigid; I tried to awake her,
but could not.  After a little time, she breathed a deep sigh, and murmured, 'Allen, Allen!
dear love! did you not hear, did you not see me?  What could thus baffle matter and traverse
space but love and soul?  Can you still doubt me, Allen?--doubt that I love you now, shall
love you evermore?--yonder, yonder, as here below?' She then sank back on her pillow, weeping,
and then I woke her."

"And what did she say on waking?"

"She did not remember what she had dreamed, except that she had passed through some great terror;
but added, with a vague smile, 'It is over, and I feel happy now.' Then she turned round and
fell asleep again, but quietly as a child, the tears dried, the smile resting."

"Go, my dear friend, go; take Lilian away from this place as soon as you can; divert her mind
with fresh scenes.  I hope!--I do hope!  Let me know where you fix yourself.  I will seize
a holiday,--I need one; I will arrange as to my patients; I will come to the same place; she
need not know of it, but I must be by to watch, to hear your news of her.  Heaven bless you
for what you have said!  I hope!--I do hope!"

CHAPTER LIV.

Some days after, I received a few lines from Mrs. Ashleigh.  Her arrangements for departure
were made.  They were to start the next morning.  She had fixed on going into the north of
Devonshire, and staying some weeks either at Ilfracombe or Lynton, whichever place Lilian preferred.
She would write as soon as they were settled.

I was up at my usual early hour the next morning.  I resolved to go out towards Mrs. Ashleigh's
house, and watch, unnoticed, where I might, perhaps, catch a glimpse of Lilian as the carriage
that would convey her to the railway passed my hiding-place.

I was looking impatiently at the clock; it was yet two hours before the train by which Mrs.
Ashleigh proposed to leave.  A loud ring at my bell! I opened the door.  Mrs. Ashleigh rushed
in, falling on my breast.

"Lilian!  Lilian!"

"Heavens!  What has happened?"

"She has left! she is gone,--gone away!  Oh, Allen, how?--whither? Advise me.  What is to be done?"

"Come in--compose yourself--tell me all,--clearly, quickly.  Lilian gone,--gone away?  Impossible!
She must be hid somewhere in the house,--the garden; she, perhaps, did not like the journey.
She may have crept away to some young friend's house.  But I talk when you should talk: tell
me all."

Little enough to tell!  Lilian had seemed unusually cheerful the night before, and pleased
at the thought of the excursion.  Mother and daughter retired to rest early: Mrs. Ashleigh
saw Lilian sleeping quietly before she herself went to bed.  She woke betimes in the morning,
dressed herself, went into the next room to call Lilian--Lilian was not there.  No suspicion
of flight occurred to her.  Perhaps her daughter might be up already, and gone downstairs,
remembering something she might wish to pack and take with her on the journey.  Mrs. Ashleigh
was confirmed in this idea when she noticed that her own room door was left open.  She went
downstairs, met a maidservant in the hall, who told her, with alarm and surprise, that both
the street and garden doors were found unclosed.  No one had seen Lilian.  Mrs. Ashleigh now
became seriously uneasy.  On remounting to her daughter's room, she missed Lilian's bonnet
and mantle. The house and garden were both searched in vain.  There could be no doubt that
Lilian had gone,--must have stolen noiselessly at night through her mother's room, and let
herself out of the house and through the garden.

"Do you think she could have received any letter, any message, any visitor unknown to you?"

"I cannot think it.  Why do you ask?  Oh, Allen, you do not believe there is any accomplice
in this disappearance!  No, you do not believe it.  But my child's honour!  What will the world
think?"

Not for the world cared I at that moment.  I could think only of Lilian, and without one suspicion
that imputed blame to her.

"Be quiet, be silent; perhaps she has gone on some visit and will return. Meanwhile, leave
inquiry to me."

CHAPTER LV.

It seemed incredible that Lilian could wander far without being observed. I soon ascertained
that she had not gone away by the railway--by any public conveyance--had hired no carriage;
she must therefore be still in the town, or have left it on foot.  The greater part of the
day was consumed in unsuccessful inquiries, and faint hopes that she would return; meanwhile
the news of her disappearance had spread: how could such news fail to do so?

An acquaintance of mine met me under the archway of Monks' Gate.  He wrung my hand and looked
at me with great compassion.

"I fear," said he, "that we were all deceived in that young Margrave.  He seemed so well conducted,
in spite of his lively manners.  But--"

"But what?"

"Mrs. Ashleigh was, perhaps, imprudent to admit him into her house so familiarly.  He was certainly
very handsome.  Young ladies will be romantic."

"How dare you, sir!" I cried, choked with rage.  "And without any colouring to so calumnious
a suggestion!  Margrave has not been in the town for many days.  No one knows even where he is."

"Oh, yes, it is known where he is.  He wrote to order the effects which he had left here to
be sent to Penrith."

"When?"

"The letter arrived the day before yesterday.  I happened to be calling at the house where
he last lodged, when at L----, the house opposite Mrs. Ashleigh's garden.  No doubt the servants
in both houses gossip with each other.  Miss Ashleigh could scarcely fail to hear of Mr. Margrave's
address from her maid; and since servants will exchange gossip, they may also convey letters.
Pardon me, you know I am your friend."

"Not from the moment you breathe a word against my betrothed wife," said I, fiercely.

I wrenched myself from the clasp of the man's hand, but his words still rang in my ears.  I
mounted my horse; I rode into the adjoining suburbs, the neighbouring villages; there, however,
I learned nothing, till, just at nightfall, in a hamlet about ten miles from L----, a labourer
declared he had seen a young lady dressed as I described, who passed by him in a path through
the fields a little before noon; that he was surprised to see one so young, so well dressed,
and a stranger to the neighbourhood (for he knew by sight the ladies of the few families scattered
around) walking alone; that as he stepped out of the path to make way for her, he looked hard
fnto her face, and she did not heed him,--seemed to gaze right before her, into space.  If
her expression had been less quiet and gentle, he should have thought, he could scarcely say
why, that she was not quite right in her mind; there was a strange unconscious stare in her
eyes, as if she were walking in her sleep.  Her pace was very steady,--neither quick nor slow.
He had watched her till she passed out of sight, amidst a wood through which the path wound
its way to a village at some distance.

I followed up this clew.  I arrived at the village to which my informant directed me, but night
had set in.  Most of the houses were closed, so I could glean no further information from the
cottages or at the inn.  But the police superintendent of the district lived in the village,
and to him I gave instructions which I had not given, and, indeed, would have been disinclined
to give, to the police at L----.  He was intelligent and kindly; he promised to communicate
at once with the different police-stations for miles round, and with all delicacy and privacy.
It was not probable that Lilian could have wandered in one day much farther than the place
at which I then was; it was scarcely to be conceived that she could baffle my pursuit and the
practised skill of the police.  I rested but a few hours, at a small public-house, and was
on horseback again at dawn.  A little after sunrise I again heard of the wanderer.  At a lonely
cottage, by a brick-kiln, in the midst of a wide common, she had stopped the previous evening,
and asked for a draught of milk.  The woman who gave it to her inquired if she had lost her
way.  She said "No;" and, only tarrying a few minutes, had gone across the common; and the
woman supposed she was a visitor at a gentleman's house which was at the farther end of the
waste, for the path she took led to no town, no village.  It occurred to me then that Lilian
avoided all high-roads, all places, even the humblest, where men congregated together.  But
where could she have passed the night?  Not to fatigue the reader with the fruitless result
of frequent inquiries, I will but say that at the end of the second day I had succeeded in
ascertaining that I was still on her track; and though I had ridden to and fro nearly double
the distance--coming back again to places I had left behind--it was at the distance of forty
miles from L---- that I last heard of her that second day.  She had been sitting alone by a
little brook only an hour before.  I was led to the very spot by a woodman--it was at the hour
of twilight when he beheld her; she was leaning her face on her hand, and seemed weary.  He
spoke to her; she did not answer, but rose and resumed her way along the banks of the streamlet.
That night I put up at no inn; I followed the course of the brook for miles, then struck into
every path that I could conceive her to have taken,--in vain. Thus I consumed the night on
foot, tying my horse to a tree, for he was tired out, and returning to him at sunrise.  At
noon, the third day, I again heard of her, and in a remote, savage part of the country.  The
features of the landscape were changed; there was little foliage and little culture, but the
ground was broken into moulds and hollows, and covered with patches of heath and stunted brushwood.
She had been seen by a shepherd, and he made the same observation as the first who had guided
me on her track,--she looked to him "like some one walking in her sleep." An hour or two later,
in a dell, amongst the furze-bushes, I chanced on a knot of ribbon.  I recognized the colour
Lilian habitually wore; I felt certain that the ribbon was hers.  Calculating the utmost speed
I could ascribe to her, she could not be far off, yet still I failed to discover her.  The
scene now was as solitary as a desert.  I met no one on my way. At length, a little after sunset,
I found myself in view of the sea.  A small town nestled below the cliffs, on which I was guiding
my weary horse.  I entered the town, and while my horse was baiting went in search of the resident
policeman.  The information I had directed to be sent round the country had reached him; he
had acted on it, but without result. I was surprised to hear him address me by name, and looking
at him more narrowly, I recognized him for the policeman Waby.  This young man had always expressed
so grateful a sense of my attendance on his sister, and had, indeed, so notably evinced his
gratitude in prosecuting with Margrave the inquiries which terminated in the discovery of Sir
Philip Derval's murderer, that I confided to him the name of the wanderer, of which he had
not been previously informed; but which it would be, indeed, impossible to conceal from him
should the search in which his aid was asked prove successful,--as he knew Miss Ashleigh by
sight.  His face immediately became thoughtful.  He paused a minute or two, and then said,--

"I think I have it, but I do not like to say; I may pain you, sir."

"Not by confidence; you pain me by concealment."

The man hesitated still: I encouraged him, and then he spoke out frankly.

"Sir, did you never think it strange that Mr. Margrave should move from his handsome rooms
in the hotel to a somewhat uncomfortable lodging, from the window of which he could look down
on Mrs. Ashleigh's garden?  I have seen him at night in the balcony of that window, and when
I noticed him going so frequently into Mrs. Ashleigh's house during your unjust detention,
I own, sir, I felt for you--"

"Nonsense!  Mr. Margrave went to Mrs. Ashleigh's house as my friend.  He has left L---- weeks
ago.  What has all this to do with--"

"Patience, sir; hear me out.  I was sent from L---- to this station (on promotion, sir) a fortnight
since last Friday, for there has been a good deal of crime hereabouts; it is a bad neighbourhood,
and full of smugglers.  Some days ago, in watching quietly near a lonely house, of which the
owner is a suspicious character down in my books, I saw, to my amazement, Mr. Margrave come
out of that house,--come out of a private door in it, which belongs to a part of the building
not inhabited by the owner, but which used formerly, when the house was a sort of inn, to be
let to night lodgers of the humblest description.  I followed him; he went down to the seashore,
walked about, singing to himself; then returned to the house, and re-entered by the same door.
I soon learned that he lodged in the house,--had lodged there for several days.  The next morning,
a fine yacht arrived at a tolerably convenient creek about a mile from the house, and there
anchored.  Sailors came ashore, rambling down to this town.  The yacht belonged to Mr. Margrave;
he had purchased it by commission in London.  It is stored for a long voyage.  He had directed
it to come to him in this out-of-the-way place, where no gentleman's yacht ever put in before,
though the creek or bay is handy enough for such craft.  Well, sir, is it not strange that
a rich young gentleman should come to this unfrequented seashore, put up with accommodation
that must be of the rudest kind, in the house of a man known as a desperate smuggler, suspected
to be worse; order a yacht to meet him here; is not all this strange?  But would it be strange
if he were waiting for a young lady? And if a young lady has fled at night from her home, and
has come secretly along bypaths, which must have been very fully explained to her beforehand,
and is now near that young gentleman's lodging, if not actually in it--if this be so, why,
the affair is not so very strange after all.  And now do you forgive me, sir?"

"Where is this house?  Lead me to it."

"You can hardly get to it except on foot; rough walking, sir, and about seven miles off by
the shortest cut."

"Come, and at once; come quickly.  We must be there before--before--"

"Before the young lady can get to the place.  Well, from what you say of the spot in which
she was last seen, I think, on reflection, we may easily do that.  I am at your service, sir.
But I should warn you that the owners of the house, man and wife, are both of villanous character,--would
do anything for money.  Mr. Margrave, no doubt, has money enough; and if the young lady chooses
to go away with Mr. Margrave, you know I have no power to help it."

"Leave all that to me; all I ask of you is to show me the house."

We were soon out of the town; the night had closed in; it was very dark, in spite of a few
stars; the path was rugged and precipitous, sometimes skirting the very brink of perilous cliffs,
sometimes delving down to the seashore--there stopped by rock or wave--and painfully rewinding
up the ascent.

"It is an ugly path, sir, but it saves four miles; and anyhow the road is a bad one."

We came, at last, to a few wretched fishermen's huts.  The moon had now risen, and revealed
the squalor of poverty-stricken ruinous hovels; a couple of boats moored to the shore, a moaning,
fretful sea; and at a distance a vessel, with lights on board, lying perfectly still at anchor
in a sheltered curve of the bold rude shore.  The policeman pointed to the vessel.

"The yacht, sir; the wind will be in her favour if she sails tonight."

We quickened our pace as well as the nature of the path would permit, left the huts behind
us, and about a mile farther on came to a solitary house, larger than, from the policeman's
description of Margrave's lodgement, I should have presupposed: a house that in the wilder
parts of Scotland might be almost a laird's; but even in the moonlight it looked very dilapidated
and desolate.  Most of the windows were closed, some with panes broken, stuffed with wisps
of straw; there were the remains of a wall round the house; it was broken in some parts (only
its foundation left).  On approaching the house I observed two doors,--one on the side fronting
the sea, one on the other side, facing a patch of broken ground that might once have been a
garden, and lay waste within the enclosure of the ruined wall, encumbered with various litter;
heaps of rubbish, a ruined shed, the carcass of a worn-out boat.  This latter door stood wide
open,--the other was closed.  The house was still and dark, as if either deserted, or all within
it retired to rest.

"I think that open door leads at once to the rooms Mr. Margrave hires; he can go in and out
without disturbing the other inmates.  They used to keep, on the side which they inhabit, a
beer-house, but the magistrates shut it up; still, it is a resort for bad characters.  Now,
sir, what shall we do?

"Watch separately.  You wait within the enclosure of the wall, hid by those heaps of rubbish,
near the door; none can enter but what you will observe them.  If you see her, you will accost
and stop her, and call aloud for me; I shall be in hearing.  I will go back to the high part
of the ground yonder--it seems to me that she must pass that way; and I would desire, if possible,
to save her from the humiliation, the--the shame of coming within the precincts of that man's
abode.  I feel I may trust you now and hereafter.  It is a great thing for the happiness and
honour of this poor young lady and her mother, that I may be able to declare that I did not
take her from that man, from any man--from that house, from any house.  You comprehend me,
and will obey?  I speak to you as a confidant,--a friend."

"I thank you with my whole heart, sir, for so doing.  You saved my sister's life, and the least
I can do is to keep secret all that would pain your life if blabbed abroad.  I know what mischief
folks' tongues can make.  I will wait by the door, never fear, and will rather lose my place
than not strain all the legal power I possess to keep the young lady back from sorrow."

This dialogue was interchanged in close hurried whisper behind the broken wall, and out of
all hearing.  Waby now crept through a wide gap into the inclosure, and nestled himself silently
amidst the wrecks of the broken boat, not six feet from the open door, and close to the wall
of the house itself.  I went back some thirty yards up the road, to the rising ground which
I had pointed out to him.  According to the best calculation I could make--considering the
pace at which I had cleared the precipitous pathway, and reckoning from the place and time
at which Lilian had been last seen-she could not possibly have yet entered that house.  I might
presume it would be more than half an hour before she could arrive; I was in hopes that, during
the interval, Margrave might show himself, perhaps at the door, or from the windows, or I might
even by some light from the latter be guided to the room in which to find him.  If, after waiting
a reasonable time, Lilian should fail to appear, I had formed my plan of action; but it was
important for the success of that plan that I should not lose myself in the strange house,
nor bring its owners to Margrave's aid,--that I should surprise him alone and unawares.  Half
an hour, three quarters, a whole hour thus passed.  No sign of my poor wanderer; but signs
there were of the enemy from whom I resolved, at whatever risk, to free and to save her.  A
window on the ground-floor, to the left of the door, which had long fixed my attention because
I had seen light through the chinks of the shutters, slowly unclosed, the shutters fell back,
the casement opened, and I beheld Margrave distinctly; he held something in his hand that gleamed
in the moonlight, directed not towards the mound on which I stood, nor towards the path I had
taken, but towards an open space beyond the ruined wall to the right.  Hid by a cluster of
stunted shrubs I watched him with a heart that beat with rage, not with terror.  He seemed
so intent in his own gaze as to be unheeding or unconscious of all else. I stole from my post,
and, still under cover, sometimes of the broken wall, sometimes of the shaggy ridges that skirted
the path, crept on, on till I reached the side of the house itself; then, there secure from
his eyes, should he turn them, I stepped over the ruined wall, scarcely two feet high in that
place, on--on towards the door.  I passed the spot on which the policeman had shrouded himself;
he was seated, his back against the ribs of the broken boat.  I put my hand to his mouth that
he might not cry out in surprise, and whispered in his ear; he stirred not.  I shook him by
the arm: still he stirred not.  A ray of the moon fell on his face. I saw that he was in a
profound slumber.  Persuaded that it was no natural sleep, and that he had become useless to
me, I passed him by.  I was at the threshold of the open door, the light from the window close
by falling on the ground; I was in the passage; a glimmer came through the chinks of a door
to the left; I turned the handle noiselessly, and, the next moment, Margrave was locked in
my grasp.

"Call out," I hissed in his ear, "and I strangle you before any one can come to your help."

He did not call out; his eye, fixed on mine as he writhed round, saw, perhaps, his peril if
he did.  His countenance betrayed fear, but as I tightened my grasp that expression gave way
to one of wrath and fierceness; and as, in turn, I felt the grip of his hand, I knew that the
struggle between us would be that of two strong men, each equally bent on the mastery of the other.

I was, as I have said before, endowed with an unusual degree of physical power, disciplined
in early youth by athletic exercise and contest.  In height and in muscle I had greatly the
advantage over my antagonist; but such was the nervous vigour, the elastic energy of his incomparable
frame, in which sinews seemed springs of steel, that had our encounter been one in which my
strength was less heightened by rage, I believe that I could no more have coped with him than
the bison can cope with the boa; but I was animated by that passion which trebles for a time
all our forces,--which makes even the weak man a match for the strong.  I felt that if I were
worsted, disabled, stricken down, Lilian might be lost in losing her sole protector; and on
the other hand, Margrave had been taken at the disadvantage of that surprise which will half
unnerve the fiercest of the wild beasts; while as we grappled, reeling and rocking to and fro
in our struggle, I soon observed that his attention was distracted,--that his eye was turned
towards an object which he had dropped involuntarily when I first seized him.  He sought to
drag me towards that object, and when near it stooped to seize.  It was a bright, slender,
short wand of steel.  I remembered when and where I had seen it, whether in my waking state
or in vision; and as his hand stole down to take it from the floor, I set on the wand my strong
foot.  I cannot tell by what rapid process of thought and association I came to the belief
that the possession of a little piece of blunted steel would decide the conflict in favor of
the possessor; but the struggle now was concentred on the attainment of that seemingly idle
weapon.  I was becoming breathless and exhausted, while Margrave seemed every moment to gather
up new force, when collecting all my strength for one final effort, I lifted him suddenly high
in the air, and hurled him to the farthest end of the cramped arena to which our contest was
confined.  He fell, and with a force by which most men would have been stunned; but he recovered
himself with a quick rebound, and, as he stood facing me, there was something grand as well
as terrible in his aspect.  His eyes literally flamed, as those of a tiger; his rich hair,
flung back from his knitted forehead, seemed to erect itself as an angry mane; his lips, slightly
parted, showed the glitter of his set teeth; his whole frame seemed larger in the tension of
the muscles, and as, gradually relaxing his first defying and haughty attitude, he crouched
as the panther crouches for its deadly spring, I felt as if it were a wild beast, whose rush
was coming upon me,--wild beast, but still Man, the king of the animals, fashioned forth from
no mixture of humbler races by the slow revolutions of time, but his royalty stamped on his
form when the earth became fit for his coming.[1]

At that moment I snatched up the wand, directed it towards him, and advancing with a fearless
stride, cried,--

"Down to my feet, miserable sorcerer!"

To my own amaze, the effect was instantaneous.  My terrible antagonist dropped to the floor
as a dog drops at the word of his master.  The muscles of his frowning countenance relaxed,
the glare of his wrathful eyes grew dull and rayless; his limbs lay prostrate and unnerved,
his head rested against the wall, his arms limp and drooping by his side.  I approached him
slowly and cautiously; he seemed cast into a profound slumber.

"You are at my mercy now!" said I.

He moved his head as in sign of deprecating submission.

"You hear and understand me?  Speak!"

His lips faintly muttered, "Yes."

"I command you to answer truly the questions I shall address to you."

"I must, while yet sensible of the power that has passed to your hand."

"Is it by some occult magnetic property in this wand that you have exercised so demoniac an
influence over a creature so pure as Lilian Ashleigh?"

"By that wand and by other arts which you could not comprehend."

"And for what infamous object,--her seduction, her dishonour?"

"No!  I sought in her the aid of a gift which would cease did she cease to be pure.  At first
I but cast my influence upon her that through her I might influence yourself.  I needed your
help to discover a secret. Circumstances steeled your mind against me.  I could no longer hope
that you would voluntarily lend yourself to my will.  Meanwhile, I had found in her the light
of a loftier knowledge than that of your science; through that knowledge, duly heeded and cultivated,
I hoped to divine what I cannot of myself discover.  Therefore I deepened over her mind the
spells I command; therefore I have drawn her hither as the loadstone draws the steel, and therefore
I would have borne her with me to the shores to which I was about this night to sail.  I had
cast the inmates of the house and all around it into slumber, in order that none might witness
her departure; had I not done so, I should have summoned others to my aid, in spite of your
threat."

"And would Lilian Ashleigh have passively accompanied you, to her own irretrievable disgrace?"

"She could not have helped it; she would have been unconscious of her acts; she was, and is,
in a trance; nor, had she gone with me, would she have waked from that state while she lived;
that would not have been long."

"Wretch! and for what object of unhallowed curiosity do you exert an influence which withers
away the life of its victim?"

"Not curiosity, but the instinct of self-preservation.  I count on no life beyond the grave.
I would defy the grave, and live on."

"And was it to learn, through some ghastly agencies, the secret of renewing existence, that
you lured me by the shadow of your own image on the night when we met last?"

The voice of Margrave here became very faint as he answered me, and his countenance began to
exhibit the signs of an exhaustion almost mortal.

"Be quick," he murmured, "or I die.  The fluid which emanates from that wand, in the hand of
one who envenoms that fluid with his own hatred and rage, will prove fatal to my life.  Lower
the wand from my forehead! low--low,--lower still!"

"What was the nature of that rite in which you constrained me to share?"

"I cannot say.  You are killing me.  Enough that you were saved from a great danger by the
apparition of the protecting image vouchsafed to your eye; otherwise you would--you would--Oh,
release me!  Away! away!"

The foam gathered to his lips; his limbs became fearfully convulsed.

"One question more: where is Lilian at this moment?  Answer that question, and I depart."

He raised his head, made a visible effort to rally his strength, and gasped out,--

"Yonder.  Pass through the open space up the cliff, beside a thorn-tree; you will find her
there, where she halted when the wand dropped from my hand.  But--but--beware!  Ha! you will
serve me yet, and through her! They said so that night, though you heard them not.  They said
it!"  Here his face became death-like; he pressed his hand on his heart, and shrieked out,
"Away! away! or you are my murderer!"

I retreated to the other end of the room, turning the wand from him, and when I gained the
door, looked back; his convulsions had ceased, but he seemed locked in a profound swoon.

I left the room,--the house,--paused by Waby; he was still sleeping. "Awake!"  I said, and
touched him with the wand.  He started up at once, rubbed his eyes, began stammering out excuses.
I checked them, and bade him follow me.  I took the way up the open ground towards which Margrave
had pointed the wand, and there, motionless, beside a gnarled fantastic thorn-tree, stood Lilian.
Her arms were folded across her breast; her face, seen by the moonlight, looked so innocent
and so infantine, that I needed no other evidence to tell me how unconscious she was of the
peril to which her steps had been drawn.  I took her gently by the hand.  "Come with me," I
said in a whisper, and she obeyed me silently, and with a placid smile.

Rough though the way, she seemed unconscious of fatigue.  I placed her arm in mine, but she
did not lean on it.  We got back to the town.  I obtained there an old chaise and a pair of
horses.  At morning Lilian was under her mother's roof.  About the noon of that day fever seized
her; she became rapidly worse, and, to all appearance, in imminent danger.  Delirium set in;
I watched beside her night and day, supported by an inward conviction of her recovery, but
tortured by the sight of her sufferings.  On the third day a change for the better became visible;
her sleep was calm, her breathing regular.

Shortly afterwards she woke out of danger.  Her eyes fell at once on me, with all their old
ineffable tender sweetness.

"Oh, Allen, beloved, have I not been very ill?  But I am almost well now. Do not weep; I shall
live for you,--for your sake."  And she bent forward, drawing my hand from my streaming eyes,
and kissed me with a child's guileless kiss on my burning forehead.

[1] And yet, even if we entirely omit the consideration of the soul, that immaterial and immortal
principle which is for a time united to his body, and view him only in his merely animal character,
man is still the most excellent of animals.--Dr. Kidd, On the Adaptation of External Nature
to the Physical Condition of Man (Sect. iii. p. 18).

CHAPTER LVI.

Lilian recovered, but the strange thing was this: all memory of the weeks that had elapsed
since her return from visiting her aunt was completely obliterated; she seemed in profound
ignorance of the charge on which I had been confined,--perfectly ignorant even of the existence
of Margrave. She had, indeed, a very vague reminiscence of her conversation with me in the
garden,--the first conversation which had ever been embittered by a disagreement,--but that
disagreement itself she did not recollect.  Her belief was that she had been ill and light-headed
since that evening. From that evening to the hour of her waking, conscious and revived, all
was a blank.  Her love for me was restored, as if its thread had never been broken.  Some such
instances of oblivion after bodily illness or mental shock are familiar enough to the practice
of all medical men;[1] and I was therefore enabled to appease the anxiety and wonder of Mrs.
Ashleigh, by quoting various examples of loss, or suspension, of memory. We agreed that it
would be necessary to break to Lilian, though very cautiously, the story of Sir Philip Derval's
murder, and the charge to which I had been subjected.  She could not fail to hear of those
events from others.  How shall I express her womanly terror, her loving, sympathizing pity,
on hearing the tale, which I softened as well as I could?

"And to think that I knew nothing of this!" she cried, clasping my hand; "to think that you
were in peril, and that I was not by your side!"

Her mother spoke of Margrave, as a visitor,--an agreeable, lively stranger; Lilian could not
even recollect his name, but she seemed shocked to think that any visitor had been admitted
while I was in circumstances so awful!  Need I say that our engagement was renewed?  Renewed!
To her knowledge and to her heart it had never been interrupted for a moment. But oh! the malignity
of the wrong world!  Oh, that strange lust of mangling reputations, which seizes on hearts
the least wantonly cruel! Let two idle tongues utter a tale against some third person, who
never offended the babblers, and how the tale spreads, like fire, lighted none know how, in
the herbage of an American prairie!  Who shall put it out?

What right have we to pry into the secrets of other men's hearths?  True or false, the tale
that is gabbled to us, what concern of ours can it be? I speak not of cases to which the law
has been summoned, which law has sifted, on which law has pronounced.  But how, when the law
is silent, can we assume its verdicts?  How be all judges where there has been no witness-box,
no cross-examination, no jury?  Yet, every day we put on our ermine, and make ourselves judges,--judges
sure to condemn, and on what evidence?  That which no court of law will receive.  Somebody
has said something to somebody, which somebody repeats to everybody!

The gossip of L---- had set in full current against Lilian's fair name. No ladies had called
or sent to congratulate Mrs. Ashleigh on her return, or to inquire after Lilian herself during
her struggle between life and death.

How I missed the Queen of the Hill at this critical moment!  How I longed for aid to crush
the slander, with which I knew not how to grapple,--aid in her knowledge of the world and her
ascendancy over its judgments!  I had heard from her once since her absence, briefly but kindly
expressing her amazement at the ineffable stupidity which could for a moment have subjected
me to a suspicion of Sir Philip Derval's strange murder, and congratulating me heartily on
my complete vindication from so monstrous a charge.  To this letter no address was given. 
I supposed the omission to be accidental, but on calling at her house to inquire her direction,
I found that the servants did not know it.

What, then, was my joy when just at this juncture I received a note from Mrs. Poyntz, stating
that she had returned the night before, and would be glad to see me.

I hastened to her house.  "Ah," thought I, as I sprang lightly up the ascent to the Hill, "how
the tattlers will be silenced by a word from her imperial lips!"  And only just as I approached
her door did it strike me how difficult--nay, how impossible--to explain to her--the hard positive
woman, her who had, less ostensibly but more ruthlessly than myself, destroyed Dr. Lloyd for
his belief in the comparatively rational pretensions of clairvoyance--all the mystical excuses
for Lilian's flight from her home?  How speak to her--or, indeed, to any one--about an occult
fascination and a magic wand?  No matter: surely it would be enough to say that at the time
Lilian had been light-headed, under the influence of the fever which had afterwards nearly
proved fatal, The early friend of Anne Ashleigh would not be a severe critic on any tale that
might right the good name of Anne Ashleigh's daughter.  So assured, with a light heart and
a cheerful face, I followed the servant into the great lady's pleasant but decorous presence-chamber.

[1] Such instances of suspense of memory are recorded in most physiological and in some metaphysical
works.  Dr. Abercrombie notices some, more or less similar to that related in the text: "A
young lady who was present at a catastrophe in Scotland, in which many people lost their lives
by the fall of the gallery of a church, escaped without any injury, but with the complete loss
of the recollection of any of the circumstances; and this extended not only to the accident,
but to everything that had occurred to her for a certain time before going to church.  A lady
whom I attended some years ago in a protracted illness, in which her memory became much impaired,
lost the recollection of a period of about ten or twelve years, but spoke with perfect consistency
of things as they stood before that time."  Dr. Aberercmbie adds: "As far as I have been able
to trace it, the principle in such cases seems to be, that when the memory is impaired to a
certain degree, the loss of it extends backward to some event or some period by which a particularly
deep impression had been made upon the mind."--ABERCROMBIE: On the Intellectual Powers, pp.
118, 119 (15th edition).

CHAPTER LVII.

Mrs. Poyntz was on her favourite seat by the window, and for a wonder, not knitting--that classic
task seemed done; but she was smoothing and folding the completed work with her white comely
hand, and smiling over it, as if in complacent approval, when I entered the room.  At the fire-side
sat the he-colonel inspecting a newly-invented barometer; at another window, in the farthest
recess of the room, stood Miss Jane Poyntz, with a young gentleman whom I had never before
seen, but who turned his eyes full upon me with a haughty look as the servant announced my
name.  He was tall, well proportioned, decidedly handsome, but with that expression of cold
and concentred self-esteem in his very attitude, as well as his countenance, which makes a
man of merit unpopular, a man without merit ridiculous.

The he-colonel, always punctiliously civil, rose from his seat, shook hands with me cordially,
and said, "Coldish weather to-day; but we shall have rain to-morrow.  Rainy seasons come in
cycles.  We are about to commence a cycle of them with heavy showers."  He sighed, and returned
to his barometer.

Miss Jane bowed to me graciously enough, but was evidently a little confused,--a circumstance
which might well attract my notice, for I had never before seen that high-bred young lady deviate
a hairsbreadth from the even tenor of a manner admirable for a cheerful and courteous ease,
which, one felt convinced, would be unaltered to those around her if an earthquake swallowed
one up an inch before her feet.

The young gentleman continued to eye me loftily, as the heir-apparent to some celestial planet
might eye an inferior creature from a half-formed nebula suddenly dropped upon his sublime
and perfected, star.

Mrs. Poyntz extended to me two fingers, and said frigidly, "Delighted to see you again!  How
kind to attend so soon to my note!"

Motioning me to a seat beside her, she here turned to her husband, and said, "Poyntz, since
a cycle of rain begins tomorrow, better secure your ride to-day.  Take these young people with
you.  I want to talk with Dr. Fenwick."

The colonel carefully put away his barometer, and saying to his daughter, "Come!" went forth.
Jane followed her father; the young gentleman followed Jane.

The reception I had met chilled and disappointed me.  I felt that Mrs. Poyntz was changed,
and in her change the whole house seemed changed.  The very chairs looked civilly unfriendly,
as if preparing to turn their backs on me.  However, I was not in the false position of an
intruder; I had been summoned; it was for Mrs. Poyntz to speak first, and I waited quietly
for her to do so.

She finished the careful folding of her work, and then laid it at rest in the drawer of the
table at which she sat.  Having so done, she turned to me, and said,--

"By the way, I ought to have introduced to you my young guest, Mr. Ashleigh Sumner.  You would
like him.  He has talents,--not showy, but solid.  He will succeed in public life."

"So that young man is Mr. Ashleigh Sumner?  I do not wonder that Miss Ashleigh rejected him."

I said this, for I was nettled, as well as surprised, at the coolness with which a lady who
had professed a friendship for me mentioned that fortunate young gentleman, with so complete
an oblivion of all the antecedents that had once made his name painful to my ear.

In turn, my answer seemed to nettle Mrs. Poyntz.

"I am not so sure that she did reject; perhaps she rather misunderstood him; gallant compliments
are not always proposals of marriage.  However that be, his spirits were not much damped by
Miss Ashleigh's disdain, nor his heart deeply smitten by her charms; for he is now very happy,
very much attached to another young lady, to whom he proposed three days ago, at Lady Delafield's,
and not to make a mystery of what all our little world will know before tomorrow, that young
lady is my daughter Jane."

"Were I acquainted with Mr. Sumner, I should offer to him my sincere congratulations."

Mrs. Poyntz resumed, without heeding a reply more complimentary to Miss Jane than to the object
of her choice,--

"I told you that I meant Jane to marry a rich country gentleman, and Ashleigh Sumner is the
very country gentleman I had then in my thoughts. He is cleverer and more ambitious than I
could have hoped; he will be a minister some day, in right of his talents, and a peer, if he
wishes it, in right of his lands.  So that matter is settled."

There was a pause, during which my mind passed rapidly through links of reminiscence and reasoning,
which led me to a mingled sentiment of admiration for Mrs. Poyntz as a diplomatist and of distrust
for Mrs. Poyntz as a friend.  It was now clear why Mrs. Poyntz, before so little disposed to
approve my love, had urged me at once to offer my hand to Lilian, in order that she might depart
affianced and engaged to the house in which she would meet Mr. Ashleigh Sumner.  Hence Mrs.
Poyntz's anxiety to obtain all the information I could afford her of the sayings and doings
at Lady Haughton's; hence, the publicity she had so suddenly given to my engagement; hence,
when Mr. Sumner had gone away a rejected suitor, her own departure from L----; she had seized
the very moment when a vain and proud man, piqued by the mortification received from one lady,
falls the easier prey to the arts which allure his suit to another. He bears it, and you ought can not
endure? Do you want to know which delicious secrets you stick in your brest Berget limbs, I will tell
you a tale that is as true as the great Tale of the creation of the world and world government,
and perhaps true, because it just is a fairy tale. Although not myself so much I wanted to have
invented this tale, but another German man, was located in the most recent major international
struggle against Paris and in his leisure hours, which gave him his hard work, a ribbon 'dreams
of French has co-written chimneys "for wife and children. A young doctor of philosophy from Schwab
has left this small book to my children last summer as a gift. »'S a nice ish's Buechler," he
said in his confidential dialect,' for which I begeischtert I, and for which I demand of every righteous
man Begeischterung. "I left it read to me from my children, and so for me the book, in which
in addition to the clever people an arrant rogue infected, very close to my heart. So I promised
my dear congregation of brest-like children, tell them a fairy tale, but has to leave of her earlier
Take me for who wanted to see if the poet has spoken? Also, I'm afraid a rain and cloudy eyes,
and may not want to be there when people are touched. The beautiful fairy tale is to say, and
reads:

The little hunchback girl.

There once was a woman who had one daughter who was very small and pale and somewhat different
from other children. For if the woman was going out with him, were often the people stand, looked
at the child and whispered something. Then, when the little girl's Mother asked why people
tend to consider it as strange, the mother always said, "Because you wear such a beautiful pretty
new dress. "Then the little girl was happy. Kamen However, she returned home, the mother her
baby daughter in his arms, kissed it again and over again and said, "You dear, sweet angel heart,
what will become of you when I once'm dead? No man knows what you are a dear angel, not even
your father! "

After some time the mother became suddenly ill, and on the ninth day she died. As cast the father
of the little girl desperate for the death bed and wanted to with his Woman be buried. His
friends talked to him, however, and consoled him, so he left it, and after a year he took another
woman, beautiful, younger and richer than the first, but so good
it was not for long.

And the little girl had all the time, since his mother had died, every day sat morning till
night in the room on the windowsill, for it was found no one who
wanted to go out with him.

It had become even paler, and it was grown in the last It very little.

So when the new mother came into the house, she thought: "Now will you go walk again, front the
city, in the sunshine on the pretty funny ways in which the beautiful shrubs and flowers are,
and where many people are dressed. "For it lived in a small, narrow streets, which shone in
the sun only rarely, and when you click on the window sill sat, we saw only a piece of blue
sky, the size of a handkerchief. The new mother went out every day, morning and afternoon. To this
end they pulled each time a beautiful had owned colorful dress, much
nicer than the old one each mother.

But the little girl never took it with him.

Since the latter finally took a heart, and asked one day it will quite fervently they It would
take yet. But the new mother struck off her round, saying, "You are
probably not very wise!

What will people think well if I see myself with you leave? You are quite bumpy. Hunchback
children never walk, that always remain at home. "

Then the little girl was very quiet, and soon leave the new mother's house, set it down on a
chair and looked at herself in the mirror, and honestly, it was bumpy,
very hunchback!

So she sat down again on his window sill and looked down the street,
and thought to his good old mother, who had taken it every day.

Then she thought again his hump:

"What is just in there?" She said to herself, "there must be something in such a hump in it."

And
the summer went, and when the winter came, the little girl was still paler, and so weak that
it became no longer could sit on the windowsill, but always had to
lie in bed.

And when the snowdrops it's first green Spitzchen from the earth
was stretched out, one night the good old mother to him and told him,
golden as and wonderful it looked in the sky.

The next morning the little girl dead

! "Do not cry, man," said the new mother! "It is for the poor child is the best way And the Man made
no reply, but nodded his head.

And when the little girl was buried, an angel with big white swan
wings came from Sky flew down and sat down beside the grave and tapped
it as if it were a door.

Soon the little girl came out from the grave, and the angel told him he had come to bring it
to his mother in the sky. As the little girl asked timidly whether because hunchbacked children
in the sky came.

It could be that not even imagine, because It would be so nice and elegant but in heaven.

However, the angel replied: "You dear, good child, you're not even bumpy," and! touched his
back with his white hand.

  There fell from the ugly old boss as a large hollow shell.

And what was it?

Two beautiful, white angel wings! It stretched out as if it had always been able to fly had,
and flew with the angels up through the sparkling sunshine in the blue sky. On the highest place
in heaven but his good old mother sat and spread his arms contrary. It flew straight into her
lap.

(On December 25, 1872)

Solitary sparrow

It is a gray bird with sharp eyes and sharp beak, in natural history
the people of the lonely sparrow is called, and the belligerent, despite
his being a host of singing and melody carries within itself.

He did it gladly, if he is irritated, precisely the Challenge with which he presents with pleasure,
he proposes his bravest tones and boldest statement on. If you want him but get to know better
and all, we must in a trap set, listen to him. Furthermore, noise, especially the strange compound
World noise, which resonates in the balance after rattling all the joys and sufferings of the
creature encourages him, makes him talkative. Then he miraculously pulls strings sound from
his throat, measures the extent of his voice was made to all degrees of strength of the clay
trying, in whispers, the swelling, in passing, and while he is intoxicated with his own song,
seems it to compete with itself. The world that separates him from his cage, flowers in his Tracks
on.

The gray bird that we painted on the wall drives, even in human society are Beings. We need him
not to call, it calls him now, any self: the bachelor, the bachelor. We do not, of course, the
bachelor, who, knowing only itself to Egoists are petrified, even those bachelors who, as a true
family destroyer, in a foreign nest and put on to a warm fire, the other one was set on fire.
The Bachelors who we think are rather those honest people who, by misadventure clumsiness
or isolated, the determination of the people have only one side can meet and feel that half-measures
for life than a deficiency. To put it short, her life is missing the woman, the child, whether
they admit it now or in unguarded moments, only to themselves acknowledge. No wonder, then, that
the great general family celebrations, the annual run brings with it, for they are the worst days. Especially
at Christmas, when the green Forest grows into the house and the
large children's eyes light up even brighter than the candles on the
nodding down pine branches, will hurt people that abandoned around
the mind, and they feel it more than ever that they, on such occasions
when even the maid, a beam the general happiness is, are really at
the door.

And no one should try it, to console a bachelor on such a day. The true bachelor will not comforted be,
he wants to have one unhappy, even the enjoyment of his misfortune. When he realizes that The Christmas
tree is lit - the light bites him in the eye - he steals the Along streets and disappears in a house
whose doors down from a pine branch, the Temporary greets. It is a wine bar.

The disgruntled world refugee sits in a corner, from where it overlooks the bar. The room is empty
and is still empty because it is brightly lit. The wall clock oscillates sharp and precise, as
the conscience of the time, only sometimes they seem to keep in mind, But the pendulum brought out
further blow following is an accelerated, and equilibrium restored. The stove warms the lonely
guest at soothing. A bottle of wine! Thoughtful He empties the first glass, the second faster. The
pub table captures his look, where to Top the bright shining wine cooler, some in straight lights,
the other with the whole Surface, the eye glides to some cut-crystal glasses down, the light brightly
colored and break so restless, as if they had something to say. A glass and another glass! While the
silent drinker the counter, can not from the eye, but without the brilliance of the sparkling
Harness more exercise, he hears the distant rolling of a carriage, which his ear for always
in the air, weaving the sound that you can call the world sound, opens. He listens deeper
and deeper into this sound, he will guess it in its individual components, . Recognize Gradually,
sounds seem to detach from the chaos, a note, two notes Three - a trio of tuned together by
well-known voices. The first note comes from a living mouth, he sounds so warm, so deep, so
the heart speaking, and behold, appears they themselves, the mother, as he knew in his youth. It
takes lifts him by the hand, him in his arms, kisses him. Then she carries him to a small bed, in which
a little girl is rosy, laughing. It is his sister, the second sound, which he belongs. Now it
embraces an atmosphere that he felt not long: a cozy Heat radiation, a humanized air - the
atmosphere of the family. He stands in front of the Christmas tree; He pulls out red eggs
under the bed, and he considers the birch on the mirror secret-respect. He heard the father
alternately friendly and strong - he sees let him go because his father died young. Then the
happy hours and days with his Sister, this unreserved communication, this innocent tenderness,
this love without In addition to thoughts - yes, thinks the silent drinker, who empties a glass
of whom the sky loves, he is a sister ... And the third voice, the highest of the triad? The solitary
guest gazes thoughtfully into his wine glass. As incense, it rises, and he believes in the church
to be. A marriage ceremony is performed, but the girl, at the lovely shape his eye is, goes
a stranger's hand. This "yes" from beloved lips, how did It hurt, it still hurts like! A word
at the wrong time, like mine, they alienated me! And then he drank a glass, sighed and ran
his hand across his forehead. The beautiful trio began to subside, down from the highest tone in
which only the fundamental, came from the mother, held on longer, until he dissolved into the general
hum, that was swallowed up by the wheels of a passing moving car. Again shone the wine cooler
over the bar, and the crystal glasses caught the light and broke
it in colorful Rays.

On the clock, which raised his arm noisy, clock struck 1.

Crept through the silent deserted streets revelers home. Once in his room, presented he light
from a large cage, in which sat a gray bird, a lonely sparrow. He provoked him with their fingers,
and the lively animal flew at him with bright whistle. "Poor Guy, "he shouted to the bird,"
where you have your mate? "And instead of answering, began the sparrow to sing so beautiful in that
the questioner was spellbound and listened. "You're right, good Animal love who can not sing,
must. And today I have not sung on my way internally, though dully? And besides, I did much better
than you, apart from the many starving girl's heart, which should
be anything but love.

  I am a man, and the man heard the whole world.

"

(On December 25, 1883)

Old girl

As usual, when the holiday season approaches, I again Tannenduft fed up, and this pleasant habit
inherited from her childhood, which I have now in every sense would call green fills me communicative,
as far as a man of nature as short tailed may make to such claim generous description. But the
child is ashamed of in it, who would want to - we do not have the Philistines, the precocious of
the height of their wisdom Look down when our children grow into the house of the forest and
in every fir resin Wedel stirs and meets the warm room with fragrance. This is the real aroma
of bliss the atmosphere of the children's heaven. The smell of happiness and brings it, it
would appear now in the form of sparkling diamonds and gilded walnuts. I hear it again in the walls
trickle, as if a thousand busy minds its being exaggerated, the door handle crack silent, without
anyone enters the room, and a rustle and whisper goes through the house, which you want to write
not only shaken the tinsel. The family ghost walk order, especially since the hundredfold dividing
spirit of the mother who knows every need and to maintain, reared from the edge of the petticoat
too long until the salvation of the Gentiles small nature, of her arms, sprang. Between when
a remote door opens, resounds fresh Children's laughter, or a gentle face continued scolded curious
looks in the room start. But the teenage girls already are inspired by the spirit of the mother,
for while equipped to consider the good itself, every wish, the family tree, they preen for
poor children a small fir tree, on whose head they put a naked little boy, which looks very
healthy, and goes from the child's community in the legend that it had redeemed the world.
And the legend is right.

Children, large and small - if they grew up, it means they are geniuses - save the world every
day still, and at the present day, little ones, is our only salvation Reflection of yours.
The little Saviour us look surprised her large eyes of children for they know not the evil world
and play with a smile with a passion flower.

But if I grateful to the children visiting me sit and sun on their salvation, we must I remember
every time the stepchildren of happiness, which only the sky and dreary gray days Nights brings.
I will not speak of the poor, because what is poor and rich? We are never rich enough to reach
the high flight of our desires, and often so poor that we do not could catch a ray of sunshine
every day of joy. I want from being truly poor Who speak so often, says if anything, sadly to
one side, sad and ignored, if not despised. This Cinderella of civil society, on Christmas
Day, as the feast of the children, twice the Cinderella, are - the
word will hardly out of the pen - the old girl.

Old girl! Old girl! There is such a contradiction between these two words, that they themselves
are surprised so hard to stand side by side. Girls - A creature full of promise, a thriving guide to life,
enjoyment and happiness! And old - The abyss Unwünschenswerten everything!

So cruel but this term may be, it is not cruel as the fate of the so designated. An old girl to
be called, who have a fate to which their own debt only in rare cases, a significant proportion.
It is mostly a old girl how to be a genius without merit or guilt, but with the cut, except
that the genius, because it is the Divine, of course, all the credit of, the old girl but because
it carries a fateful accident, everything will be counted as a liability. There are in the strictest
sense necessarily old girl: natural and social conditions do it this
way: what is necessary, just that mocked and laughed at me to see
is the most merciless and intolerable. An old girl asks, if not sympathy,
but Compassionately.  But still it admitted a jealousy little less keen than that which
has love for its cause,--so true it is that jealousy is never absent where self-love is always
present.  Certainly, it was no susceptibility of sober friendship which had made the stern
arbitress of a coterie ascribe to her interest in me her pitiless judgment of Lilian.  Strangely
enough, with the image of this archetype of conventional usages and the trite social life,
came that of the mysterious Margrave, surrounded by all the attributes with which superstition
clothes the being of the shadowy border-land that lies beyond the chart of our visual world
itself.  By what link were creatures so dissimilar riveted together in the metaphysical chain
of association? Both had entered into the record of my life when my life admitted its own first
romance of love.  Through the aid of this cynical schemer I had been made known to Lilian.
At her house I had heard the dark story of that Louis Grayle, with whom, in mocking spite of
my reason, conjectures, which that very reason must depose itself before it could resolve into
distempered fancies, identified the enigmatical Margrave.  And now both she, the representative
of the formal world most opposed to visionary creeds, and he, who gathered round him all the
terrors which haunt the realm of fable, stood united against me,--foes with whom the intellect
I had so haughtily cultured knew not how to cope.  Whatever assault I might expect from either,
I was unable to assail again.  Alike, then, in this, are the Slander and the Phantom,--that
which appalls us most in their power over us is our impotence against them.

But up rose the sun, chasing the shadows from the earth, and brightening insensibly the thoughts
of man.  After all, Margrave had been baffled and defeated, whatever the arts he had practised
and the secrets he possessed. It was, at least, doubtful whether his evil machinations would
be renewed. He had seemed so incapable of long-sustained fixity of purpose, that it was probable
he was already in pursuit of some new agent or victim; and as to this commonplace and conventional
spectre, the so-called World, if it is everywhere to him whom it awes, it is nowhere to him
who despises it. What was the good or bad word of a Mrs. Poyntz to me?  Ay, but to Lilian?
There, indeed, I trembled; but still, even in trembling, it was sweet to think that my home
would be her shelter,--my choice her vindication.  Ah! how unutterably tender and reverential
Love becomes when it assumes the duties of the guardian, and hallows its own heart into a sanctuary
of refuge for the beloved!

CHAPTER LX.

The beautiful lake!  We two are on its grassy margin,--twilight melting into night; the stars
stealing forth, one after one.  What a wonderful change is made within us when we come from
our callings amongst men, chafed, wearied, wounded; gnawed by our cares, perplexed by the doubts
of our very wisdom, stung by the adder that dwells in cities,--Slander; nay, even if renowned,
fatigued with the burden of the very names that we have won!  What a change is made within
us when suddenly we find ourselves transported into the calm solitudes of Nature,--into scenes
familiar to our happy dreaming childhood; back, back from the dusty thoroughfares of our toil-worn
manhood to the golden fountain of our youth!  Blessed is the change, even when we have no companion
beside us to whom the heart can whisper its sense of relief and joy.  But if the one in whom
all our future is garnered up be with us there, instead of that weary World which has so magically
vanished away from the eye and the thought, then does the change make one of those rare epochs
of life in which the charm is the stillness.  In the pause from all by which our own turbulent
struggles for happiness trouble existence, we feel with a rapt amazement how calm a thing it
is to be happy.  And so as the night, in deepening, brightened, Lilian and I wandered by the
starry lake.  Conscious of no evil in ourselves, how secure we felt from evil!  A few days
more--a few days more, and we two should be as one!  And that thought we uttered in many forms
of words, brooding over it in the long intervals of enamoured silence.

And when we turned back to the quiet inn at which we had taken up our abode, and her mother,
with her soft face, advanced to meet us, I said to Lilian,--

"Would that in these scenes we could fix our home for life, away and afar from the dull town
we have left behind us, with the fret of its wearying cares and the jar of its idle babble!"

"And why not, Allen?  Why not?  But no, you would not be happy."

"Not be happy, and with you?  Sceptic, by what reasoning do you arrive at that ungracious conclusion?"

"The heart loves repose and the soul contemplation, but the mind needs action.  Is it not so?"

"Where learned you that aphorism, out of place on such rosy lips?"

"I learned it in studying you," murmured Lilian, tenderly.

Here Mrs. Ashleigh joined us.  For the first time I slept under the same roof as Lilian.  And
I forgot that the universe contained an enigma to solve or an enemy to fear.

CHAPTER LXI.

Twenty days--the happiest my life had ever known--thus glided on.  Apart from the charm which
love bestows on the beloved, there was that in Lilian's conversation which made her a delightful
companion.  Whether it was that, in this pause from the toils of my career, my mind could more
pliantly supple itself to her graceful imagination, or that her imagination was less vague
and dreamy amidst those rural scenes, which realized in their loveliness and grandeur its long-conceived
ideals, than it had been in the petty garden-ground neighboured by the stir and hubbub of the
busy town,--in much that I had once slighted or contemned as the vagaries of undisciplined
fancy, I now recognized the sparkle and play of an intuitive genius, lighting up many a depth
obscure to instructed thought.  It is with some characters as with the subtler and more ethereal
order of poets,--to appreciate them we must suspend the course of artificial life; in the city
we call them dreamers, on the mountain-top we find them interpreters.

In Lilian, the sympathy with Nature was not, as in Margrave, from the joyous sense of Nature's
lavish vitality; it was refined into exquisite perception of the diviner spirit by which that
vitality is informed. Thus, like the artist, from outward forms of beauty she drew forth the
covert types, lending to things the most familiar exquisite meanings unconceived before.  For
it is truly said by a wise critic of old, that "the attribute of Art is to suggest infinitely
more than it expresses; "and such suggestions, passing from the artist's innermost thought
into the mind that receives them, open on and on into the Infinite of Ideas, as a moonlit wave
struck by a passing oar impels wave upon wave along one track of light.

So the days glided by, and brought the eve of our bridal morn.  It had been settled that, after
the ceremony (which was to be performed by license in the village church, at no great distance,
which adjoined my paternal home, now passed away to strangers), we should make a short excursion
into Scotland, leaving Mrs. Ashleigh to await our return at the little inn.

I had retired to my own room to answer some letters from anxious patients, and having finished
these I looked into my trunk for a Guide-Book to the North, which I had brought with me.  My
hand came upon Margrave's wand, and remembering that strange thrill which had passed through
me when I last handled it, I drew it forth, resolved to examine calmly if I could detect the
cause of the sensation.  It was not now the time of night in which the imagination is most
liable to credulous impressions, nor was I now in the anxious and jaded state of mind in which
such impressions may be the more readily conceived.  The sun was slowly setting over the delicious
landscape; the air cool and serene; my thoughts collected,--heart and conscience alike at peace.
I took, then, the wand, and adjusted it to the palm of the hand as I had done before.  I felt
the slight touch of the delicate wire within, and again the thrill!  I did not this time recoil;
I continued to grasp the wand, and sought deliberately to analyze my own sensations in the
contact.  There came over me an increased consciousness of vital power; a certain exhilaration,
elasticity, vigour, such as a strong cordial may produce on a fainting man.  All the forces
of my frame seemed refreshed, redoubled; and as such effects on the physical system are ordinarily
accompanied by correspondent effects on the mind, so I was sensible of a proud elation of spirits,--a
kind of defying, superb self-glorying.  All fear seemed blotted out from my thought, as a weakness
impossible to the grandeur and might which belong to Intellectual Man; I felt as if it were
a royal delight to scorn Earth and its opinions, brave Hades and its spectres.  Rapidly this
new-born arrogance enlarged itself into desires vague but daring.  My mind reverted to the
wild phenomena associated with its memories of Margrave. I said half-aloud, "if a creature
so beneath myself in constancy of will and completion of thought can wrest from Nature favours
so marvellous, what could not be won from her by me, her patient persevering seeker? What if
there be spirits around and about, invisible to the common eye, but whom we can submit to our
control; and what if this rod be charged with some occult fluid, that runs through all creation,
and can be so disciplined as to establish communication wherever life and thought can reach
to beings that live and think?  So would the mystics of old explain what perplexes me.  Am
I sure that the mystics of old duped them selves or their pupils?  This, then, this slight
wand, light as a reed in my grasp, this, then, was the instrument by which Margrave sent his
irresistible will through air and space, and by which I smote himself, in the midst of his
tiger-like wrath, into the helplessness of a sick man's swoon!  Can the instrument at this
distance still control him; if now meditating evil, disarm and disable his purpose?"  Involuntarily,
as I revolved these ideas, I stretched forth the wand, with a concentred energy of desire that
its influence should reach Margrave and command him.  And since I knew not his whereabout,
yet was vaguely aware that, according to any conceivable theory by which the wand could be
supposed to carry its imagined virtues to definite goals in distant space, it should be pointed
in the direction of the object it was intended to affect, so I slowly moved the wand as if
describing a circle; and thus, in some point of the circle--east, west, north, or south--the
direction could not fail to be true.  Before I had performed half the circle, the wand of itself
stopped, resisting palpably the movement of my hand to impel it onward.  Had it, then, found
the point to which my will was guiding it, obeying my will by some magnetic sympathy never
yet comprehended by any recognized science?  I know not; but I had not held it thus fixed for
many seconds, before a cold air, well remembered, passed by me, stirring the roots of my hair;
and, reflected against the opposite wall, stood the hateful Scin-Laeca.  The Shadow was dimmer
in its light than when before beheld, and the outline of the features was less distinct; still
it was the unmistakable lemur, or image, of Margrave.

And a voice was conveyed to my senses, saying, as from a great distance, and in weary yet angry
accents,

"You have summoned me?  Wherefore?"

I overcame the startled shudder with which, at first, I beheld the Shadow and heard the Voice.

"I summoned you not," said I; "I sought but to impose upon you my will, that you should persecute,
with your ghastly influences, me and mine no more.  And now, by whatever authority this wand
bestows on me, I so abjure and command you!"

I thought there was a sneer of disdain on the lip through which the answer seemed to come,--

"Vain and ignorant, it is but a shadow you command.  My body you have cast into a sleep, and
it knows not that the shadow is here; nor, when it wakes, will the brain be aware of one reminiscence
of the words that you utter or the words that you hear."

"What, then, is this shadow that simulates the body?  Is it that which in popular language
is called the soul?"

"It is not: soul is no shadow."

"What then?"

"Ask not me.  Use the wand to invoke Intelligences higher than mine."

"And how?"

"I will tell you not.  Of yourself you may learn, if you guide the wand by your own pride of
will and desire; but in the hands of him who has learned not the art, the wand has its dangers.
Again I say you have summoned me! Wherefore?"

"Lying shade, I summoned thee not."

"So wouldst thou say to the demons, did they come in their terrible wrath, when the bungler,
who knows not the springs that he moves, calls them up unawares, and can neither control nor
dispel.  Less revengeful than they, I leave thee unharmed, and depart."

"Stay.  If, as thou sayest, no command I address to thee--to thee, who art only the image or
shadow--can have effect on the body and mind of the being whose likeness thou art, still thou
canst tell me what passes now in his brain.  Does it now harbour schemes against me through
the woman I love?  Answer truly."

"I reply for the sleeper, of whom I am more than a likeness, though only the shadow.  His thought
speaks thus: 'I know, Allen Fenwick, that in thee is the agent I need for achieving the end
that I seek.  Through the woman thou lovest, I hope to subject thee.  A grief that will harrow
thy heart is at hand; when that grief shall befall, thou wilt welcome my coming.  In me alone
thy hope will be placed; through me alone wilt thou seek a path out of thy sorrow.  I shall
ask my conditions: they will make thee my tool and my slave!'"

The shadow waned,--it was gone.  I did not seek to detain it, nor, had I sought, could I have
known by what process.  But a new idea now possessed me.  This shadow, then, that had once
so appalled and controlled me, was, by its own confession, nothing more than a shadow!  It
had spoken of higher Intelligences; from them I might learn what the Shadow could not reveal.
As I still held the wand firmer and firmer in my grasp, my thoughts grew haughtier and bolder.
Could the wand, then, bring those loftier beings thus darkly referred to before me?  With that
thought, intense and engrossing, I guided the wand towards the space, opening boundless and
blue from the casement that let in the skies.  The wand no longer resisted my hand.

In a few moments I felt the floors of the room vibrate; the air was darkened; a vaporous, hazy
cloud seemed to rise from the ground without the casement; an awe, infinitely more deep and
solemn than that which the Scin-Laeca had caused in its earliest apparition, curdled through
my veins, and stilled the very beat of my heart.

At that moment I heard, without, the voice of Lilian, singing a simple, sacred song which I
had learned at my mother's knees, and taught to her the day before: singing low, and as with
a warning angel's voice.  By an irresistible impulse I dashed the wand to the ground, and bowed
my head as I had bowed it when my infant mind comprehended, without an effort, mysteries more
solemn than those which perplexed me now.  Slowly I raised my eyes, and looked round; the vaporous,
hazy cloud had passed away, or melted into the ambient rose-tints amidst which the sun had sunk.

Then, by one of those common reactions from a period of overstrained excitement, there succeeded
to that sentiment of arrogance and daring with which these wild, half-conscious invocations
had been fostered and sustained, a profound humility, a warning fear.

"What!" said I, inly, "have all those sound resolutions, which my reason founded on the wise
talk of Julius Faber, melted away in the wrack of haggard, dissolving fancies!  Is this my
boasted intellect, my vaunted science!  I--I, Allen Fenwick, not only the credulous believer,
but the blundering practitioner, of an evil magic!  Grant what may be possible, however uncomprehended,--grant
that in this accursed instrument of antique superstition there be some real powers--chemical,
magnetic, no matter what-by which the imagination can be aroused, inflamed, deluded, so that
it shapes the things I have seen, speaks in the tones I have heard,--grant this, shall I keep
ever ready, at the caprice of will, a constant tempter to steal away my reason and fool my
senses?  Or if, on the other hand, I force my sense to admit what all sober men must reject;
if I unschool myself to believe that in what I have just experienced there is no mental illusion;
that sorcery is a fact, and a demon world has gates which open to a key that a mortal can forge,--who
but a saint would not shrink from the practice of powers by which each passing thought of ill
might find in a fiend its abettor?  In either case--in any case--while I keep this direful
relic of obsolete arts, I am haunted,--cheated out of my senses, unfitted for the uses of life.
If, as my ear or my fancy informs me, grief--human grief--is about to befall me, shall I, in
the sting of impatient sorrow, have recourse to an aid which, the same voice declares, will
reduce me to a tool and a slave,--tool and slave to a being I dread as a foe?  Out on these
nightmares! and away with the thing that bewitches the brain to conceive them!"

I rose; I took up the wand, holding it so that its hollow should not rest on the palm of the
hand.  I stole from the house by the back way, in order to avoid Lilian, whose voice I still
heard, singing low, on the lawn in front.  I came to a creek, to the bank of which a boat was
moored, undid its chain, rowed on to a deep part of the lake, and dropped the wand into its
waves.  It sank at once; scarcely a ripple furrowed the surface, not a bubble arose from the
deep.  And, as the boat glided on, the star mirrored itself on the spot where the placid waters
had closed over the tempter to evil.

Light at heart, I sprang again on the shore, and hastening to Lilian, where she stood on the
silvered, shining sward, clasped her to my breast.

"Spirit of my life!" I murmured, "no enchantments for me but thine!  Thine are the spells by
which creation is beautified, and, in that beauty, hallowed.  What though we can see not into
the measureless future from the verge of the moment; what though sorrow may smite us while
we are dreaming of bliss, let the future not rob me of thee, and a balm will be found for each
wound!  Love me ever as now, oh, my Lilian; troth to troth, side by side, till the grave!"

"And beyond the grave," answered Lilian, softly.

CHAPTER LXII.

Our vows are exchanged at the altar, the rite which made Lilian my wife is performed; we are
returned from the church amongst the hills, in which my fathers had worshipped; the joy-bells
that had pealed for my birth had rung for my marriage.  Lilian has gone to her room to prepare
for our bridal excursion; while the carriage we have hired is waiting at the door. I am detaining
her mother on the lawn, seeking to cheer and compose her spirits, painfully affected by that
sense of change in the relations of child and parent which makes itself suddenly felt by the
parent's heart on the day that secures to the child another heart on which to lean.

But Mrs. Ashleigh's was one of those gentle womanly natures which, if easily afflicted, are
easily consoled.  And, already smiling through her tears, she was about to quit me and join
her daughter, when one of the inn-servants came to me with some letters, which had just been
delivered by the postman.  As I took them from the servant, Mrs. Ashleigh asked if there were
any for her.  She expected one from her housekeeper at L----, who had been taken ill in her
absence, and about whom the kind mistress felt anxious.  The servant replied that there was
no letter for her, but one directed to Miss Ashleigh, which he had just sent up to the young lady.

Mrs. Ashleigh did not doubt that her housekeeper had written to Lilian, whom she had known
from the cradle and to whom she was tenderly attached, instead of to her mistress; and, saying
something to me to that effect, quickened her steps towards the house.

I was glancing over my own letters, chiefly from patients, with a rapid eye, when a cry of
agony, a cry as if of one suddenly stricken to the heart, pierced my ear,--a cry from within
the house.  "Heavens! was that Lilian's voice?"  The same doubt struck Mrs. Ashleigh, who had
already gained the door.  She rushed on, disappearing within the threshold and calling to me
to follow.  I bounded forward, passed her on the stairs, was in Lilian's room before her.

My bride was on the floor prostrate, insensible: so still, so colourless, that my first dreadful
thought was that life had gone.  In her hand was a letter, crushed as with a convulsive sudden
grasp.

It was long before the colour came back to her cheek, before the breath was perceptible on
her lip.  She woke, but not to health, not to sense. Hours were passed in violent convulsions,
in which I momentarily feared her death.  To these succeeded stupor, lethargy, not benignant
sleep. That night, my bridal night, I passed as in some chamber to which I had been summoned
to save youth from the grave.  At length--at length--life was rescued, was assured!  Life came
back, but the mind was gone.  She knew me not, nor her mother.  She spoke little and faintly;
in the words she uttered there was no reason.

I pass hurriedly on; my experience here was in fault, my skill ineffectual.  Day followed day,
and no ray came back to the darkened brain.  We bore her, by gentle stages, to London.  I was
sanguine of good result from skill more consummate than mine, and more especially devoted to
diseases of the mind.  I summoned the first advisers.  In vain! in vain!

CHAPTER LXIII.

And the cause of this direful shock?  Not this time could it be traced to some evil spell,
some phantasmal influence.  The cause was clear, and might have produced effects as sinister
on nerves of stronger fibre if accompanied by a heart as delicately sensitive, an honour as
exquisitely pure.

The letter found in her hand was without name; it was dated from L----, and bore the postmark
of that town.  It conveyed to Lilian, in the biting words which female malice can make so sharp,
the tale we had sought sedulously to guard from her ear,--her flight, the construction that
scandal put upon it.  It affected for my blind infatuation a contemptuous pity; it asked her
to pause before she brought on the name I offered to her an indelible disgrace.  If she so
decided, she was warned not to return to L----, or to prepare there for the sentence that would
exclude her from the society of her own sex.  I cannot repeat more, I cannot minute down all
that the letter expressed or implied, to wither the orange blossoms in a bride's wreath.  The
heart that took in the venom cast its poison on the brain, and the mind fled before the presence
of a thought so deadly to all the ideas which its innocence had heretofore conceived.

I knew not whom to suspect of the malignity of this mean and miserable outrage, nor did I much
care to know.  The handwriting, though evidently disguised, was that of a woman, and, therefore,
had I discovered the author, my manhood would have forbidden me the idle solace of revenge.
Mrs. Poyntz, however resolute and pitiless her hostility when once aroused, was not without
a certain largeness of nature irreconcilable with the most dastardly of all the weapons that
envy or hatred can supply to the vile.  She had too lofty a self-esteem and too decorous a
regard for the moral sentiment of the world that she typified, to do, or connive at, an act
which degrades the gentlewoman.  Putting her aside, what other female enemy had Lilian provoked?
No matter!  What other woman at L---- was worth the condescension of a conjecture?

After listening to all that the ablest of my professional brethren in the metropolis could
suggest to guide me, and trying in vain their remedies, I brought back my charge to L----.
Retaining my former residence for the visits of patients, I engaged, for the privacy of my
home, a house two miles from the town, secluded in its own grounds, and guarded by high walls.

Lilian's mother removed to my mournful dwelling-place.  Abbot's House, in the centre of that
tattling coterie, had become distasteful to her, and to me it was associated with thoughts
of anguish and of terror.  I could not, without a shudder, have entered its grounds,--could
not, without a stab at the heart, have seen again the old fairy-land round the Monks' Well,
nor the dark cedar-tree under which Lilian's hand had been placed in mine; and a superstitious
remembrance, banished while Lilian's angel face had brightened the fatal precincts, now revived
in full force.  The dying man's curse--had it not been fulfilled?

A new occupant for the old house was found within a week after Mrs. Ashleigh had written from
London to a house-agent at L----, intimating her desire to dispose of the lease.  Shortly before
we had gone to Windermere, Miss Brabazon had become enriched by a liberal life-annuity bequeathed
to her by her uncle, Sir Phelim.  Her means thus enabled her to move from the comparatively
humble lodging she had hitherto occupied to Abbot's House; but just as she had there commenced
a series of ostentatious entertainments, implying an ambitious desire to dispute with Mrs.
Poyntz the sovereignty of the Hill, she was attacked by some severe malady which appeared complicated
with spinal disease, and after my return to L---- I sometimes met her, on the spacious platform
of the Hill, drawn along slowly in a Bath chair, her livid face peering forth from piles of
Indian shawls and Siberian furs, and the gaunt figure of Dr. Jones stalking by her side, taciturn
and gloomy as some sincere mourner who conducts to the grave the patron on whose life he him
self had conveniently lived. The official belief in God did not last long in his youthful Soul, and heaven,
as he explains in his first essay, had him at an early stage an infinite space of natural forces
expanded.