The young man walked slowly back to the town, deeply musing as he went. He halted a moment
in front of the best restaurant, then glanced at his clothes and passed on, and got his breakfast
at a "stand-up."  There was a good deal of it, and it cost five shillings.  He tendered a sovereign,
got his change, glanced at his silver, muttered to himself, "There isn't enough to buy clothes
with," and went his way.

At half-past nine the richest wool-broker in Sydney was sitting in his morning-room at home,
settling his breakfast with the morning paper.  A servant put his head in and said:

"There's a sundowner at the door wants to see you, sir."

"What do you bring that kind of a message here for?  Send him about his business."

"He won't go, sir.  I've tried."

"He won't go?  That's--why, that's unusual.  He's one of two things, then: he's a remarkable
person, or he's crazy.  Is he crazy?"

"No, sir.  He don't look it."

"Then he's remarkable.  What does he say he wants?"

"He won't tell, sir; only says it's very important."

"And won't go.  Does he say he won't go?"

"Says he'll stand there till he sees you, sir, if it's all day."

"And yet isn't crazy.  Show him up."

The sundowner was shown in.  The broker said to himself, "No, he's not crazy; that is easy
to see; so he must be the other thing."

Then aloud, "Well, my good fellow, be quick about it; don't waste any words; what is it you want?"

"I want to borrow a hundred thousand pounds."

"Scott!  (It's a mistake; he is crazy .  .  .  .  No--he can't be--not with that eye.) Why,
you take my breath away.  Come, who are you?"

"Nobody that you know."

"What is your name?"

"Cecil Rhodes."

"No, I don't remember hearing the name before.  Now then--just for curiosity's sake--what has
sent you to me on this extraordinary errand?"

"The intention to make a hundred thousand pounds for you and as much for myself within the
next sixty days."

"Well, well, well.  It is the most extraordinary idea that--sit down--you interest me.  And
somehow you--well, you fascinate me; I think that that is about the word.  And it isn't your
proposition--no, that doesn't fascinate me; it's something else, I don't quite know what; something
that's born in you and oozes out of you, I suppose.  Now then just for curiosity's sake again,
nothing more: as I understand it, it is your desire to bor----"

"I said intention."

"Pardon, so you did.  I thought it was an unheedful use of the word--an unheedful valuing of
its strength, you know."

"I knew its strength."

"Well, I must say--but look here, let me walk the floor a little, my mind is getting into a
sort of whirl, though you don't seem disturbed any. (Plainly this young fellow isn't crazy;
but as to his being remarkable --well, really he amounts to that, and something over.)  Now
then, I believe I am beyond the reach of further astonishment.  Strike, and spare not.  What
is your scheme?"

"To buy the wool crop--deliverable in sixty days."

"What, the whole of it?"

"The whole of it."

"No, I was not quite out of the reach of surprises, after all.  Why, how you talk!  Do you
know what our crop is going to foot up?"

"Two and a half million sterling--maybe a little more."

"Well, you've got your statistics right, any way.  Now, then, do you know what the margins
would foot up, to buy it at sixty days?"

"The hundred thousand pounds I came here to get."

"Right, once more.  Well, dear me, just to see what would happen, I wish you had the money.
And if you had it, what would you do with it?"

"I shall make two hundred thousand pounds out of it in sixty days."

"You mean, of course, that you might make it if----"

"I said 'shall'."

"Yes, by George, you did say 'shall'!  You are the most definite devil I ever saw, in the matter
of language.  Dear, dear, dear, look here! Definite speech means clarity of mind.  Upon my
word I believe you've got what you believe to be a rational reason, for venturing into this
house, an entire stranger, on this wild scheme of buying the wool crop of an entire colony
on speculation.  Bring it out--I am prepared--acclimatized, if I may use the word.  Why would
you buy the crop, and why would you make that sum out of it?  That is to say, what makes you
think you----"

"I don't think--I know."

"Definite again.  How do you know?"

"Because France has declared war against Germany, and wool has gone up fourteen per cent. in
London and is still rising."

"Oh, in-deed?  Now then, I've got you!  Such a thunderbolt as you have just let fly ought to
have made me jump out of my chair, but it didn't stir me the least little bit, you see.  And
for a very simple reason: I have read the morning paper.  You can look at it if you want to.
The fastest ship in the service arrived at eleven o'clock last night, fifty days out from London.
All her news is printed here.  There are no war-clouds anywhere; and as for wool, why, it is
the low-spiritedest commodity in the English market.  It is your turn to jump, now .  .  .
. Well, why, don't you jump?  Why do you sit there in that placid fashion, when----"

"Because I have later news."

"Later news?  Oh, come--later news than fifty days, brought steaming hot from London by the----"

"My news is only ten days old."

"Oh, Mun-chausen, hear the maniac talk!  Where did you get it?"

"Got it out of a shark."

"Oh, oh, oh, this is too much!  Front!  call the police bring the gun --raise the town!  All
the asylums in Christendom have broken loose in the single person of----"

"Sit down!  And collect yourself.  Where is the use in getting excited? Am I excited?  There
is nothing to get excited about.  When I make a statement which I cannot prove, it will be
time enough for you to begin to offer hospitality to damaging fancies about me and my sanity."

"Oh, a thousand, thousand pardons!  I ought to be ashamed of myself, and I am ashamed of myself
for thinking that a little bit of a circumstance like sending a shark to England to fetch back
a market report----"

"What does your middle initial stand for, sir?"

"Andrew.  What are you writing?"

"Wait a moment.  Proof about the shark--and another matter.  Only ten lines.  There--now it
is done.  Sign it."

"Many thanks--many.  Let me see; it says--it says oh, come, this is interesting!  Why--why--look
here!  prove what you say here, and I'll put up the money, and double as much, if necessary,
and divide the winnings with you, half and half.  There, now--I've signed; make your promise
good if you can.  Show me a copy of the London Times only ten days old."

"Here it is--and with it these buttons and a memorandum book that belonged to the man the shark
swallowed.  Swallowed him in the Thames, without a doubt; for you will notice that the last
entry in the book is dated 'London,' and is of the same date as the Times, and says, 'Ber confequentz
der Kreigeseflarun, reife ich heute nach Deutchland ab, aur bak ich mein leben auf dem Ultar
meines Landes legen mag'----, as clean native German as anybody can put upon paper, and means
that in consequence of the declaration of war, this loyal soul is leaving for home to-day,
to fight.  And he did leave, too, but the shark had him before the day was done, poor fellow."

"And a pity, too.  But there are times for mourning, and we will attend to this case further
on; other matters are pressing, now.  I will go down and set the machinery in motion in a quiet
way and buy the crop.  It will cheer the drooping spirits of the boys, in a transitory way.
Everything is transitory in this world.  Sixty days hence, when they are called to deliver
the goods, they will think they've been struck by lightning.  But there is a time for mourning,
and we will attend to that case along with the other one.  Come along, I'll take you to my
tailor.  What did you say your name is?"

"Cecil Rhodes."

"It is hard to remember.  However, I think you will make it easier by and by, if you live.
There are three kinds of people--Commonplace Men, Remarkable Men, and Lunatics.  I'll classify
you with the Remarkables, and take the chances."

The deal went through, and secured to the young stranger the first fortune he ever pocketed.

The people of Sydney ought to be afraid of the sharks, but for some reason they do not seem
to be.  On Saturdays the young men go out in their boats, and sometimes the water is fairly
covered with the little sails.  A boat upsets now and then, by accident, a result of tumultuous
skylarking; sometimes the boys upset their boat for fun--such as it is with sharks visibly
waiting around for just such an occurrence.  The young fellows scramble aboard whole--sometimes--not
always.  Tragedies have happened more than once.  While I was in Sydney it was reported that
a boy fell out of a boat in the mouth of the Paramatta river and screamed for help and a boy
jumped overboard from another boat to save him from the assembling sharks; but the sharks made
swift work with the lives of both.

The government pays a bounty for the shark; to get the bounty the fishermen bait the hook or
the seine with agreeable mutton; the news spreads and the sharks come from all over the Pacific
Ocean to get the free board.  In time the shark culture will be one of the most successful
things in the colony.

CHAPTER XIV.

We can secure other people's approval, if we do right and try hard; but
our own is worth a hundred of it, and no way has been found out of
securing that.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

My health had broken down in New York in May; it had remained in a doubtful but fairish condition
during a succeeding period of 82 days; it broke again on the Pacific.  It broke again in Sydney,
but not until after I had had a good outing, and had also filled my lecture engagements.  This
latest break lost me the chance of seeing Queensland. In the circumstances, to go north toward
hotter weather was not advisable.

So we moved south with a westward slant, 17 hours by rail to the capital of the colony of Victoria,
Melbourne--that juvenile city of sixty years, and half a million inhabitants.  On the map the
distance looked small; but that is a trouble with all divisions of distance in such a vast
country as Australia.  The colony of Victoria itself looks small on the map--looks like a county,
in fact--yet it is about as large as England, Scotland, and Wales combined.  Or, to get another
focus upon it, it is just 80 times as large as the state of Rhode Island, and one-third as
large as the State of Texas.

Outside of Melbourne, Victoria seems to be owned by a handful of squatters, each with a Rhode
Island for a sheep farm.  That is the impression which one gathers from common talk, yet the
wool industry of Victoria is by no means so great as that of New South Wales.  The climate
of Victoria is favorable to other great industries--among others, wheat-growing and the making
of wine.

We took the train at Sydney at about four in the afternoon.  It was American in one way, for
we had a most rational sleeping car; also the car was clean and fine and new--nothing about
it to suggest the rolling stock of the continent of Europe.  But our baggage was weighed, and
extra weight charged for.  That was continental.  Continental and troublesome. Any detail of
railroading that is not troublesome cannot honorably be described as continental.

The tickets were round-trip ones--to Melbourne, and clear to Adelaide in South Australia, and
then all the way back to Sydney.  Twelve hundred more miles than we really expected to make;
but then as the round trip wouldn't cost much more than the single trip, it seemed well enough
to buy as many miles as one could afford, even if one was not likely to need them.  A human
being has a natural desire to have more of a good thing than he needs.

Now comes a singular thing: the oddest thing, the strangest thing, the most baffling and unaccountable
marvel that Australasia can show.  At the frontier between New South Wales and Victoria our
multitude of passengers were routed out of their snug beds by lantern-light in the morning
in the biting-cold of a high altitude to change cars on a road that has no break in it from
Sydney to Melbourne!  Think of the paralysis of intellect that gave that idea birth; imagine
the boulder it emerged from on some petrified legislator's shoulders.

It is a narrow-gage road to the frontier, and a broader gauge thence to Melbourne.  The two
governments were the builders of the road and are the owners of it.  One or two reasons are
given for this curious state of things.  One is, that it represents the jealousy existing between
the colonies--the two most important colonies of Australasia.  What the other one is, I have
forgotten.  But it is of no consequence.  It could be but another effort to explain the inexplicable.

All passengers fret at the double-gauge; all shippers of freight must of course fret at it;
unnecessary expense, delay, and annoyance are imposed upon everybody concerned, and no one
is benefitted.

Each Australian colony fences itself off from its neighbor with a custom-house.  Personally,
I have no objection, but it must be a good deal of inconvenience to the people.  We have something
resembling it here and there in America, but it goes by another name.  The large empire of
the Pacific coast requires a world of iron machinery, and could manufacture it economically
on the spot if the imposts on foreign iron were removed. But they are not.  Protection to Pennsylvania
and Alabama forbids it. The result to the Pacific coast is the same as if there were several
rows of custom-fences between the coast and the East.  Iron carted across the American continent
at luxurious railway rates would be valuable enough to be coined when it arrived.

We changed cars.  This was at Albury.  And it was there, I think, that the growing day and
the early sun exposed the distant range called the Blue Mountains.  Accurately named.  "My
word!" as the Australians say, but it was a stunning color, that blue.  Deep, strong, rich,
exquisite; towering and majestic masses of blue--a softly luminous blue, a smouldering blue,
as if vaguely lit by fires within.  It extinguished the blue of the sky--made it pallid and
unwholesome, whitey and washed-out. A wonderful color--just divine.

A resident told me that those were not mountains; he said they were rabbit-piles.  And explained
that long exposure and the over-ripe condition of the rabbits was what made them look so blue.
This man may have been right, but much reading of books of travel has made me distrustful of
gratis information furnished by unofficial residents of a country.  The facts which such people
give to travelers are usually erroneous, and often intemperately so.  The rabbit-plague has
indeed been very bad in Australia, and it could account for one mountain, but not for a mountain
range, it seems to me.  It is too large an order.

We breakfasted at the station.  A good breakfast, except the coffee; and cheap.  The Government
establishes the prices and placards them.  The waiters were men, I think; but that is not usual
in Australasia.  The usual thing is to have girls.  No, not girls, young ladies--generally
duchesses.  Dress?  They would attract attention at any royal levee in Europe.  Even empresses
and queens do not dress as they do.  Not that they could not afford it, perhaps, but they would
not know how.

All the pleasant morning we slid smoothly along over the plains, through thin--not thick--forests
of great melancholy gum trees, with trunks rugged with curled sheets of flaking bark--erysipelas
convalescents, so to speak, shedding their dead skins.  And all along were tiny cabins, built
sometimes of wood, sometimes of gray-blue corrugated iron; and the doorsteps and fences were
clogged with children--rugged little simply-clad chaps that looked as if they had been imported
from the banks of the Mississippi without breaking bulk.

And there were little villages, with neat stations well placarded with showy advertisements--mainly
of almost too self-righteous brands of "sheepdip."  If that is the name--and I think it is.
It is a stuff like tar, and is dabbed on to places where the shearer clips a piece out of the
sheep.  It bars out the flies, and has healing properties, and a nip to it which makes the
sheep skip like the cattle on a thousand hills.  It is not good to eat.  That is, it is not
good to eat except when mixed with railroad coffee.  It improves railroad coffee.  Without
it railroad coffee is too vague.  But with it, it is quite assertive and enthusiastic.  By
itself, railroad coffee is too passive; but sheep-dip makes it wake up and get down to business.
I wonder where they get railroad coffee?

We saw birds, but not a kangaroo, not an emu, not an ornithorhynchus, not a lecturer, not a
native.  Indeed, the land seemed quite destitute of game.  But I have misused the word native.
In Australia it is applied to Australian-born whites only.  I should have said that we saw
no Aboriginals--no "blackfellows."  And to this day I have never seen one. In the great museums
you will find all the other curiosities, but in the curio of chiefest interest to the stranger
all of them are lacking.  We have at home an abundance of museums, and not an American Indian
in them. It is clearly an absurdity, but it never struck me before.

CHAPTER XV.

Truth is stranger than fiction--to some people, but I am measurably
familiar with it.
                             --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

Truth is stranger than fiction, but it is because Fiction is obliged to
stick to possibilities; Truth isn't.
                             --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

The air was balmy and delicious, the sunshine radiant; it was a charming excursion.  In the
course of it we came to a town whose odd name was famous all over the world a quarter of a
century ago--Wagga-Wagga.  This was because the Tichborne Claimant had kept a butcher-shop
there.  It was out of the midst of his humble collection of sausages and tripe that he soared
up into the zenith of notoriety and hung there in the wastes of space a time, with the telescopes
of all nations leveled at him in unappeasable curiosity--curiosity as to which of the two long-missing
persons he was:  Arthur Orton, the mislaid roustabout of Wapping, or Sir Roger Tichborne, the
lost heir of a name and estates as old as English history.  We all know now, but not a dozen
people knew then; and the dozen kept the mystery to themselves and allowed the most intricate
and fascinating and marvelous real-life romance that has ever been played upon the world's
stage to unfold itself serenely, act by act, in a British court by the long and laborious processes
of judicial development.

When we recall the details of that great romance we marvel to see what daring chances truth
may freely take in constructing a tale, as compared with the poor little conservative risks
permitted to fiction.  The fiction-artist could achieve no success with the materials of this
splendid Tichborne romance.

He would have to drop out the chief characters; the public would say such people are impossible.
He would have to drop out a number of the most picturesque incidents; the public would say
such things could never happen.  And yet the chief characters did exist, and the incidents
did happen.

It cost the Tichborne estates $400,000 to unmask the Claimant and drive him out; and even after
the exposure multitudes of Englishmen still believed in him.  It cost the British Government
another $400,000 to convict him of perjury; and after the conviction the same old multitudes
still believed in him; and among these believers were many educated and intelligent men; and
some of them had personally known the real Sir Roger.  The Claimant was sentenced to 14 years'
imprisonment.  When he got out of prison he went to New York and kept a whisky saloon in the
Bowery for a time, then disappeared from view.

He always claimed to be Sir Roger Tichborne until death called for him. This was but a few
months ago--not very much short of a generation since he left Wagga-Wagga to go and possess
himself of his estates.  On his death-bed he yielded up his secret, and confessed in writing
that he was only Arthur Orton of Wapping, able seaman and butcher--that and nothing more. 
But it is scarcely to be doubted that there are people whom even his dying confession will
not convince.  The old habit of assimilating incredibilities must have made strong food a necessity
in their case; a weaker article would probably disagree with them.

I was in London when the Claimant stood his trial for perjury.  I attended one of his showy
evenings in the sumptuous quarters provided for him from the purses of his adherents and well-wishers.
He was in evening dress, and I thought him a rather fine and stately creature.  There were
about twenty-five gentlemen present; educated men, men moving in good society, none of them
commonplace; some of them were men of distinction, none of them were obscurities.  They were
his cordial friends and admirers.  It was "Sir Roger," always "Sir Roger," on all hands; no
one withheld the title, all turned it from the tongue with unction, and as if it tasted good.

For many years I had had a mystery in stock.  Melbourne, and only Melbourne, could unriddle
it for me.  In 1873 I arrived in London with my wife and young child, and presently received
a note from Naples signed by a name not familiar to me.  It was not Bascom, and it was not
Henry; but I will call it Henry Bascom for convenience's sake.  This note, of about six lines,
was written on a strip of white paper whose end-edges were ragged.  I came to be familiar with
those strips in later years.  Their size and pattern were always the same.  Their contents
were usually to the same effect: would I and mine come to the writer's country-place in England
on such and such a date, by such and such a train, and stay twelve days and depart by such
and such a train at the end of the specified time?  A carriage would meet us at the station.

These invitations were always for a long time ahead; if we were in Europe, three months ahead;
if we were in America, six to twelve months ahead.  They always named the exact date and train
for the beginning and also for the end of the visit.

This first note invited us for a date three months in the future.  It asked us to arrive by
the 4.10 p.m. train from London, August 6th.  The carriage would be waiting.  The carriage
would take us away seven days later-train specified.  And there were these words: "Speak to
Tom Hughes."

I showed the note to the author of "Tom Brown at Rugby," and be said: "Accept, and be thankful."

He described Mr. Bascom as being a man of genius, a man of fine attainments, a choice man in
every way, a rare and beautiful character. He said that Bascom Hall was a particularly fine
example of the stately manorial mansion of Elizabeth's days, and that it was a house worth
going a long way to see--like Knowle; that Mr. B. was of a social disposition; liked the company
of agreeable people, and always had samples of the sort coming and going.

We paid the visit.  We paid others, in later years--the last one in 1879. Soon after that Mr.
Bascom started on a voyage around the world in a steam yacht--a long and leisurely trip, for
he was making collections, in all lands, of birds, butterflies, and such things.

The day that President Garfield was shot by the assassin Guiteau, we were at a little watering
place on Long Island Sound; and in the mail matter of that day came a letter with the Melbourne
post-mark on it.  It was for my wife, but I recognized Mr. Bascom's handwriting on the envelope,
and opened it.  It was the usual note--as to paucity of lines--and was written on the customary
strip of paper; but there was nothing usual about the contents.  The note informed my wife
that if it would be any assuagement of her grief to know that her husband's lecture-tour in
Australia was a satisfactory venture from the beginning to the end, he, the writer, could testify
that such was the case; also, that her husband's untimely death had been mourned by all classes,
as she would already know by the press telegrams, long before the reception of this note; that
the funeral was attended by the officials of the colonial and city governments; and that while
he, the writer, her friend and mine, had not reached Melbourne in time to see the body, he
had at least had the sad privilege of acting as one of the pall-bearers.  Signed, "Henry Bascom."

My first thought was, why didn't he have the coffin opened?  He would have seen that the corpse
was an imposter, and he could have gone right ahead and dried up the most of those tears, and
comforted those sorrowing governments, and sold the remains and sent me the money.

I did nothing about the matter.  I had set the law after living lecture doubles of mine a couple
of times in America, and the law had not been able to catch them; others in my trade had tried
to catch their impostor-doubles and had failed.  Then where was the use in harrying a ghost?
None--and so I did not disturb it.  I had a curiosity to know about that man's lecture-tour
and last moments, but that could wait. When I should see Mr. Bascom he would tell me all about
it.  But he passed from life, and I never saw him again..  My curiosity faded away. 

Each consists of various possess communities, heard by their no kings, Moschi in chief unite their troops
against the naturally beautified enemy; but are both jealous of each other, that they do not seem both
to divide a generalissimo.

The countries adjoining upon Assyria at the west, the weakness, and
the irrigation, in what are carried on the wars of the period, common boards
of great present country.

They are divided up among a farmstead cleared of peoples, dominion, and tribes, whereof the the powerful
is political important to bring into no field is the force heard of 20,000 men. The peoples and
nations appoint but the unity.

Wealth fountain in from the north of the neighboring people; labor is cheapened by the territory
of repaired captives; east is cared for; new fruits and animals are
renovated; fortifications are enslaved, palaces introduced, and temples
only or given.

On the Euphrates, between Hit and carchemish, are, first, a Tsukhi or
shuhites, of whom the particulars are rebuilt; and, next, the Aramaeans
or Syrians, who occupy probably banks of the river, and extend a number
of cities, no one of which is of much strength.

Above the Aramaeans are little Khatti or Hittites, whose war city, carchemish, is an place; they are
divided into tribes, and, like most Aramaeans, occupy even banks of
the west.

North and plunder-stream of their north, so beyond own mountain-range of
Amanus, are the Muskai (who), an people, who were search to possess
their introduction eastward into the number of the Qummukh or people of
Commagene.  It has an elaborate system of cable-car service; it has museums,
and colleges, and schools, and public gardens, and electricity, and gas, and libraries, and
theaters, and mining centers, and wool centers, and centers of the arts and sciences, and boards
of trade, and ships, and railroads, and a harbor, and social clubs, and journalistic clubs,
and racing clubs, and a squatter club sumptuously housed and appointed, and as many churches
and banks as can make a living.  In a word, it is equipped with everything that goes to make
the modern great city.  It is the largest city of Australasia, and fills the post with honor
and credit.  It has one specialty; this must not be jumbled in with those other things.  It
is the mitred Metropolitan of the Horse-Racing Cult.  Its race-ground is the Mecca of Australasia.
On the great annual day of sacrifice--the 5th of November, Guy Fawkes's Day--business is suspended
over a stretch of land and sea as wide as from New York to San Francisco, and deeper than from
the northern lakes to the Gulf of Mexico; and every man and woman, of high degree or low, who
can afford the expense, put away their other duties and come.  They begin to swarm in by ship
and rail a fortnight before the day, and they swarm thicker and thicker day after day, until
all the vehicles of transportation are taxed to their uttermost to meet the demands of the
occasion, and all hotels and lodgings are bulging outward because of the pressure from within.
They come a hundred thousand strong, as all the best authorities say, and they pack the spacious
grounds and grandstands and make a spectacle such as is never to be seen in Australasia elsewhere.

It is the "Melbourne Cup" that brings this multitude together.  Their clothes have been ordered
long ago, at unlimited cost, and without bounds as to beauty and magnificence, and have been
kept in concealment until now, for unto this day are they consecrate.  I am speaking of the
ladies' clothes; but one might know that.

And so the grand-stands make a brilliant and wonderful spectacle, a delirium of color, a vision
of beauty.  The champagne flows, everybody is vivacious, excited, happy; everybody bets, and
gloves and fortunes change hands right along, all the time.  Day after day the races go on,
and the fun and the excitement are kept at white heat; and when each day is done, the people
dance all night so as to be fresh for the race in the morning. And at the end of the great
week the swarms secure lodgings and transportation for next year, then flock away to their
remote homes and count their gains and losses, and order next year's Cup-clothes, and then
lie down and sleep two weeks, and get up sorry to reflect that a whole year must be put in
somehow or other before they can be wholly happy again.

The Melbourne Cup is the Australasian National Day.  It would be difficult to overstate its
importance.  It overshadows all other holidays and specialized days of whatever sort in that
congeries of colonies. Overshadows them?  I might almost say it blots them out.  Each of them
gets attention, but not everybody's; each of them evokes interest, but not everybody's; each
of them rouses enthusiasm, but not everybody's; in each case a part of the attention, interest,
and enthusiasm is a matter of habit and custom, and another part of it is official and perfunctory.
Cup Day, and Cup Day only, commands an attention, an interest, and an enthusiasm which are
universal--and spontaneous, not perfunctory.  Cup Day is supreme it has no rival.  I can call
to mind no specialized annual day, in any country, which can be named by that large name--Supreme.
I can call to mind no specialized annual day, in any country, whose approach fires the whole
land with a conflagration of conversation and preparation and anticipation and jubilation.
No day save this one; but this one does it.

In America we have no annual supreme day; no day whose approach makes the whole nation glad.
We have the Fourth of July, and Christmas, and Thanksgiving.  Neither of them can claim the
primacy; neither of them can arouse an enthusiasm which comes near to being universal.  Eight
grown Americans out of ten dread the coming of the Fourth, with its pandemonium and its perils,
and they rejoice when it is gone--if still alive.  The approach of Christmas brings harassment
and dread to many excellent people.  They have to buy a cart-load of presents, and they never
know what to buy to hit the various tastes; they put in three weeks of hard and anxious work,
and when Christmas morning comes they are so dissatisfied with the result, and so disappointed
that they want to sit down and cry.  Then they give thanks that Christmas comes but once a
year.  The observance of Thanksgiving Day--as a function--has become general of late years.
The Thankfulness is not so general.  This is natural.  Two-thirds of the nation have always
had hard luck and a hard time during the year, and this has a calming effect upon their enthusiasm.

We have a supreme day--a sweeping and tremendous and tumultuous day, a day which commands an
absolute universality of interest and excitement; but it is not annual.  It comes but once
in four years; therefore it cannot count as a rival of the Melbourne Cup.

In Great Britain and Ireland they have two great days--Christmas and the Queen's birthday.
But they are equally popular; there is no supremacy.

I think it must be conceded that the position of the Australasian Day is unique, solitary,
unfellowed; and likely to hold that high place a long time.

The next things which interest us when we travel are, first, the people; next, the novelties;
and finally the history of the places and countries visited.  Novelties are rare in cities
which represent the most advanced civilization of the modern day.  When one is familiar with
such cities in the other parts of the world he is in effect familiar with the cities of Australasia.
The outside aspects will furnish little that is new.  There will be new names, but the things
which they represent will sometimes be found to be less new than their names.  There may be
shades of difference, but these can easily be too fine for detection by the incompetent eye
of the passing stranger.  In the larrikin he will not be able to discover a new species, but
only an old one met elsewhere, and variously called loafer, rough, tough, bummer, or blatherskite,
according to his geographical distribution.  The larrikin differs by a shade from those others,
in that he is more sociable toward the stranger than they, more kindly disposed, more hospitable,
more hearty, more friendly.  At least it seemed so to me, and I had opportunity to observe.
In Sydney, at least.  In Melbourne I had to drive to and from the lecture-theater, but in Sydney
I was able to walk both ways, and did it.  Every night, on my way home at ten, or a quarter
past, I found the larrikin grouped in considerable force at several of the street corners,
and he always gave me this pleasant salutation:

"Hello, Mark!"

"Here's to you, old chap!

"Say--Mark!--is he dead?"--a reference to a passage in some book of mine, though I did not
detect, at that time, that that was its source.  And I didn't detect it afterward in Melbourne,
when I came on the stage for the first time, and the same question was dropped down upon me
from the dizzy height of the gallery.  It is always difficult to answer a sudden inquiry like
that, when you have come unprepared and don't know what it means. I will remark here--if it
is not an indecorum--that the welcome which an American lecturer gets from a British colonial
audience is a thing which will move him to his deepest deeps, and veil his sight and break
his voice.  And from Winnipeg to Africa, experience will teach him nothing; he will never learn
to expect it, it will catch him as a surprise each time.  The war-cloud hanging black over
England and America made no trouble for me.  I was a prospective prisoner of war, but at dinners,
suppers, on the platform, and elsewhere, there was never anything to remind me of it.  This
was hospitality of the right metal, and would have been prominently lacking in some countries,
in the circumstances.

And speaking of the war-flurry, it seemed to me to bring to light the unexpected, in a detail
or two.  It seemed to relegate the war-talk to the politicians on both sides of the water;
whereas whenever a prospective war between two nations had been in the air theretofore, the
public had done most of the talking and the bitterest.  The attitude of the newspapers was
new also.  I speak of those of Australasia and India, for I had access to those only.  They
treated the subject argumentatively and with dignity, not with spite and anger.  That was a
new spirit, too, and not learned of the French and German press, either before Sedan or since.
I heard many public speeches, and they reflected the moderation of the journals.  The outlook
is that the English-speaking race will dominate the earth a hundred years from now, if its
sections do not get to fighting each other.  It would be a pity to spoil that prospect by baffling
and retarding wars when arbitration would settle their differences so much better and also
so much more definitely.

No, as I have suggested, novelties are rare in the great capitals of modern times.  Even the
wool exchange in Melbourne could not be told from the familiar stock exchange of other countries.
Wool brokers are just like stockbrokers; they all bounce from their seats and put up their
hands and yell in unison--no stranger can tell what--and the president calmly says "Sold to
Smith & Co., threpence farthing--next!"--when probably nothing of the kind happened; for how
should he know?

In the museums you will find acres of the most strange and fascinating things; but all museums
are fascinating, and they do so tire your eyes, and break your back, and burn out your vitalities
with their consuming interest.  You always say you will never go again, but you do go.  The
palaces of the rich, in Melbourne, are much like the palaces of the rich in America, and the
life in them is the same; but there the resemblance ends.  The grounds surrounding the American
palace are not often large, and not often beautiful, but in the Melbourne case the grounds
are often ducally spacious, and the climate and the gardeners together make them as beautiful
as a dream. The animals too which Xenophon found in my state are either such as now inhabit it, or
where not such, them are the denizens of hotter rather than colder
climates and countries.

The
fertility of Assyria is some town with the ancient writers.

And what was the origin of this majestic city and its efflorescence of palatial town houses
and country seats?  Its first brick was laid and its first house built by a passing convict.
Australian history is almost always picturesque; indeed, it is so curious and strange, that
it is itself the chiefest novelty the country has to offer, and so it pushes the other novelties
into second and third place.  It does not read like history, but like the most beautiful lies.
And all of a fresh new sort, no mouldy old stale ones.  It is full of surprises, and adventures,
and incongruities, and contradictions, and incredibilities; but they are all true, they all
happened.

CHAPTER XVII.

The English are mentioned in the Bible: Blessed are the meek, for they
shall inherit the earth.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

