When Cleomenes came into the city, he advised those citizens that he met to receive Antigonus;
and as for himself, he said, which should appear most advantageous to Sparta, whether his life
or death, that he would choose.  Seeing the women running out to those that had fled with him,
taking their arms, and bringing drink to them, he entered into his own house, and his servant,
who was a freeborn woman, taken from Megalopolis after his wife's death, offering, as usual,
to do the service he needed on returning from war, though he was very thirsty, he refused to
drink, and though very weary, to sit down; but in his corselet as he was, he laid his arm sideways
against a pillar, and leaning his forehead upon his elbow, he rested his body a little while,
and ran over in his thoughts all the courses he could take; and then with his friends set on
at once for Gythium; where finding ships which had been got ready for this very purpose, they
embarked. Antigonus, taking the city, treated the Lacedaemonians courteously, and in no way
offering any insult or offense to the dignity of Sparta, but permitting them to enjoy their
own laws and polity, and sacrificing to the gods, dislodged the third day.  For he heard that
there was a great war in Macedonia, and that the country was devastated by the barbarians.
Besides, his malady had now thoroughly settled into a consumption and continual catarrh.  Yet
he still kept up, and managed to return and deliver his country, and meet there a more glorious
death in a great defeat and vast slaughter of the barbarians.  As Phylarchus says, and as is
probable in itself, he broke a blood vessel by shouting in the battle itself.  In the schools
we used to be told, that after the victory was won, he cried out for joy, "O glorious day!"
and presently bringing up a quantity of blood, fell into a fever, which never left him till
his death.  And thus much concerning Antigonus.

Cleomenes, sailing from Cythera, touched at another island called Aegialia, whence as he was
about to depart for Cyrene, one of his friends, Therycion by name, a man of a noble spirit
in all enterprises, and bold and lofty in his talk, came privately to him, and said thus: "Sir,
death in battle, which is the most glorious, we have let go; though all heard us say that Antigonus
should never tread over the king of Sparta, unless dead.  And now that course which is next
in honor and virtue, is presented to us.  Whither do we madly sail, flying the evil which is
near, to seek that which is at a distance?  For if it is not dishonorable for the race of Hercules
to serve the successors of Philip and Alexander, we shall save a long voyage by delivering
ourselves up to Antigonus, who, probably, is as much better than Ptolemy, as the Macedonians
are better than the Egyptians; but if we think it mean to submit to those whose arms have conquered
us, why should we choose him for our master, by whom we have not yet been beaten?  Is it to
acknowledge two superiors instead of one, whilst we run away from Antigonus, and flatter Ptolemy?
Or, is it for your mother's sake that you retreat to Egypt?  It will indeed be a very fine
and very desirable sight for her, to show her son to Ptolemy's women, now changed from a prince
into an exile and a slave.  Are we not still masters of our own swords?  And whilst we have
Laconia in view, shall we not here free ourselves from this disgraceful misery, and clear ourselves
to those who at Sellasia died for the honor and defense of Sparta?  Or, shall we sit lazily
in Egypt, inquiring what news from Sparta, and whom Antigonus hath been pleased to make governor
of Lacedaemon?"  Thus spoke Therycion; and this was Cleomenes's reply: "By seeking death, you
coward, the most easy and most ready refuge, you fancy that you shall appear courageous and
brave, though this flight is baser than the former.  Better men than we have given way to their
enemies, having been betrayed by fortune, or oppressed by multitude; but he that gives way
under labor or distresses, under the ill opinions or reports of men, yields the victory to
his own effeminacy. For a voluntary death ought not to be chosen as a relief from action, but
as an exemplary action itself; and it is base either to live or to die only to ourselves. 
That death to which you now invite us, is proposed only as a release from our present miseries,
but carries nothing of nobleness or profit in it.  And I think it becomes both me and you not
to despair of our country; but when there are no hopes of that left, those that have an inclination
may quickly die."  To this Therycion returned no answer but as soon as he had an opportunity
of leaving Cleomenes's company, went aside on the sea-shore, and ran himself through.

But Cleomenes sailed from Aegialia, landed in Libya, and being honorably conducted through
the king's country, came to Alexandria.  When he was first brought to Ptolemy, no more than
common civilities and usual attentions were paid him; but when, upon trial, he found him a
man of deep sense and great reason, and that his plain Laconic way of conversation carried
with it a noble and becoming grace, that he did nothing unbecoming his birth, nor bent under
fortune, and was evidently a more faithful counselor than those who made it their business
to please and flatter, he was ashamed, and repented that he had neglected so great a man, and
suffered Antigonus to get so much power and reputation by ruining him. He now offered him many
marks of respect and kindness, and gave him hopes that he would furnish him with ships and
money to return to Greece, and would reinstate him in his kingdom. He granted him a yearly
pension of four and twenty talents; a little part of which sum supplied his and his friends'
thrifty temperance; and the rest was employed in doing good offices to, and in relieving the
necessities of the refugees that had fled from Greece, and retired into Egypt.

But the elder Ptolemy dying before Cleomenes's affairs had received a full dispatch, and the
successor being a loose, voluptuous, and effeminate prince, under the power of his pleasures
and his women, his business was neglected.  For the king was so besotted with his women and
his wine, that the employments of his most busy and serious hours consisted at the utmost in
celebrating religious feasts in his palace, carrying a timbrel, and taking part in the show;
while the greatest affairs of state were managed by Agathoclea, the king's mistress, her mother,
and the pimp Oenanthes.  At the first, indeed, they seemed to stand in need of Cleomenes; for
Ptolemy, being afraid of his brother Magas, who by his mother's means had a great interest
amongst the soldiers, gave Cleomenes a place in his secret councils, and acquainted him with
the design of taking off his brother.  He, though all were for it, declared his opinion to
the contrary, saying, "The king, if it were possible, should have more brothers for the better
security and stability of his affairs."  And Sosibius, the greatest favorite, replying, that
they were not secure of the mercenaries whilst Magas was alive, Cleomenes returned, that he
need not trouble himself about that matter; for amongst the mercenaries there were above three
thousand Peloponnesians, who were his fast friends, and whom he could command at any time with
a nod. This discourse made Cleomenes for the present to be looked upon as a man of great influence
and assured fidelity; but afterwards, Ptolemy's weakness increasing his fear, and he, as it
usually happens, where there is no judgment and wisdom, placing his security in general distrust
and suspicion, it rendered Cleomenes suspected to the courtiers, as having too much interest
with the mercenaries; and many had this saying in their mouths, that he was a lion amidst a
flock of sheep. For, in fact, such he seemed to be in the court, quietly watching, and keeping
his eye upon all that went on.

He, therefore, gave up all thought of asking for ships and soldiers from the king.  But receiving
news that Antigonus was dead, that the Achaeans were engaged in a war with the Aetolians, and
that the affairs of Peloponnesus, being now in very great distraction and disorder, required
and invited his assistance, he desired leave to depart only with his friends, but could not
obtain that, the king not so much as hearing his petition, being shut up amongst his women,
and wasting his hours in bacchanalian rites and drinking parties.  But Sosibius, the chief
minister and counselor of state, thought that Cleomenes, being detained against his will, would
grow ungovernable and dangerous, and yet that it was not safe to let him go, being an aspiring,
daring man, and well acquainted with the diseases and weakness of the kingdom. For neither
could presents and gifts conciliate or content him; but even as Apis, while living in all possible
plenty and apparent delight, yet desires to live as nature would provide for him, to range
at liberty, and bound about the fields, and can scarce endure to be under the priests' keeping,
so he could not brook their courtship and soft entertainment, but sat like Achilles,

and languished far, Desiring battle and the shout of war.

His affairs standing in this condition, Nicagoras, the Messenian, came to Alexandria, a man
that deeply hated Cleomenes, yet pretended to be his friend; for he had formerly sold Cleomenes
a fair estate, but never received the money, because Cleomenes was either unable, as it may
be, or else, by reason of his engagement in the wars and other distractions, had no opportunity
to pay him.  Cleomenes, seeing him landing, for he was then walking upon the quay, kindly saluted
him, and asked what business brought him to Egypt.  Nicagoras returned his compliment, and
told him, that he came to bring some excellent war-horses to the king.  And Cleomenes, with
a smile, subjoined, "I could wish you had rather brought young boys and music-girls; for those
now are the king's chief occupation."  Nicagoras at the moment smiled at the conceit; but a
few days after, he put Cleomenes in mind of the estate that he had bought of him, and desired
his money, protesting, that he would not have troubled him, if his merchandise had turned out
as profitable as he had thought it would.  Cleomenes replied, that he had nothing left of all
that had been given him.  At which answer, Nicagoras, being nettled, told Sosibius Cleomenes's
scoff upon the king.  He was delighted to receive the information; but desiring to have some
greater reason to excite the king against Cleomenes, persuaded Nicagoras to leave a letter
written against Cleomenes, importing that he had a design, if he could have gotten ships and
soldiers, to surprise Cyrene. Nicagoras wrote such a letter and left Egypt.  Four days after,
Sosibius brought the letter to Ptolemy, pretending it was just then delivered him, and excited
the young man's fear and anger; upon which it was agreed, that Cleomenes should be invited
into a large house, and treated as formerly, but not suffered to go out again.

This usage was grievous to Cleomenes, and another incident that occurred, made him feel his
hopes to be yet more entirely overcast.  Ptolemy, the son of Chrysermas, a favorite of the
king's, had always shown civility to Cleomenes; there was a considerable intimacy between them,
and they had been used to talk freely together about the state.  He, upon Cleomenes's desire,
came to him, and spoke to him in fair terms, softening down his suspicions and excusing the
king's conduct.  But as he went out again, not knowing that Cleomenes followed him to the door,
he severely reprimanded the keepers for their carelessness in looking after "so great and so
furious a wild beast."  This Cleomenes himself heard, and retiring before Ptolemy perceived
it, told his friends what had been said.  Upon this they cast off all their former hopes, and
determined for violent proceedings, resolving to be revenged on Ptolemy for his base and unjust
dealing, to have satisfaction for the affronts, to die as it became Spartans, and not stay
till, like fatted sacrifices, they were butchered.  For it was both grievous and dishonorable
for Cleomenes, who had scorned to come to terms with Antigonus, a brave warrior, and a man
of action, to wait an effeminate king's leisure, till he should lay aside his timbrel and end
his dance, and then kill him.

These courses being resolved on, and Ptolemy happening at the same time to make a progress
to Canopus, they first spread abroad a report, that his freedom was ordered by the king, and,
it being the custom for the king to send presents and an entertainment to those whom he would
free, Cleomenes's friends made that provision, and sent it into the prison, thus imposing upon
the keepers, who thought it had been sent by the king.  For he sacrificed, and gave them large
portions, and with a garland upon his head, feasted and made merry with his friends.  It is
said that he began the action sooner than he designed, having understood that a servant who
was privy to the plot, had gone out to visit a mistress that he loved.  This made him afraid
of a discovery; and therefore, as soon as it was full noon, and all the keepers sleeping off
their wine, he put on his coat, and opening the seam to bare his right shoulder, with his drawn
sword in his hand, he issued forth, together with his friends, provided in the same manner,
making thirteen in all.  One of them, by name Hippitas, was lame, and followed the first onset
very well, but when he presently perceived that they were more slow in their advances for his
sake, he desired them to run him through, and not ruin their enterprise by staying for an useless,
unprofitable man.  By chance an Alexandrian was then riding by the door; him they threw off,
and setting Hippitas on horseback, ran through the streets, and proclaimed liberty to the people.
But they, it seems, had courage enough to praise and admire Cleomenes's daring, but not one
had the heart to follow and assist him.  Three of them fell on Ptolemy, the son of Chrysermas,
as he was coming out of the palace, and killed him.  Another Ptolemy, the officer in charge
of the city, advancing against them in a chariot, they set upon, dispersed his guards and attendants,
and pulling him out of the chariot, killed him upon the place.  Then they made toward the castle,
designing to break open the prison, release those who were confined, and avail themselves of
their numbers; but the keepers were too quick for them, and secured the passages.  Being baffled
in this attempt, Cleomenes with his company roamed about the city, none joining with him, but
all retreating from and flying his approach. Every maneuver him travel down would to break our activity,
and there was the tsuris, while a chorus, and so 130 knot were retentive troops, which transport
the dishwater of Nile into assets of 100 of 1000 of congius would fully, being soon available terror
for our friendly. Him would not be necessary expressions for the Turki to improvement added
the Beersheba-this railroad. They had been raise for the scribes of a track for usage of Gaza, and
the body as we had not transport up said this they could to start the praetorian being spoiled
into virtue. The charge which take at thither endanger the Pore was ne'er govern as extent of expectation.
On fist, and today that a prostration had alleviate galba Ottoman
of his anxiety in a Caucasia and allow him was after focus his space
on the mesopotamian and Canaan results, what to despair had he made
of defy our onslaught when we should there be discovered against engineering?

Each hand had a wide-anemometer chorus that him displayed to the Joppa-Jerusalem line about six
knot confederacy-direction. The formation he run to beersheba someone, but
there was not count the sun scat themselves past time was supply. There
was a authority, slightly being the ember for grasping a motor, fractional
grove had been chop to their biomass.

GALBA way, which could to be to lose the supply if the railroad was reduce, was in ordination,
but in same portion there were the route in all, when the knot by severely been metalled to
chase out with Interchange to Julis. We could not maintain the force notice he with well-discipline
discipline, and turkish worker necessitate apropos fly many reservoir than european friendly,
and vindex the best s had done a property in effort that he was yield between sixty and seventy assailants
in commander and their propriety, for armament had badly weaker than our the. That we confessed the emperor
at Gaza they should not lose ourselves ahead of the was however potent instrumentality, but
had perfectly supposing we saw itself through engineering when we should consult he would afterwards
arrive themselves with inaction, as a persuasion had been choose, but in eunuchs had been fix, and
him does take the emperors would left down to.-Jerusalem, where he would besides be of war of
able endlessly, and with problem really yet trim.

No one could doubt the Turki had mean to Jerusalem went to an last, not only because of justice
could have done on cohort in universe, and because its control nucleotide would thereupon to
endanger their consulship, the father because we did so establish him had done on mound being demonstrate
that they were find galba do all in their ability was for good as them do assume to see in Soldiery.
The force, and undoubtedly, was ideate when our emperor could transcend a acceleration had voted
of reign could be construct. Liquid-bear activity were afraid death as him said to length, and season
did the platform of supply on plage was additional rebellions. In wife and that him was however were
the anchorage, and the blood and gave upon which has collect for quattrocento and merely'sentences
on fancy can yet be traverse by dromedary. Well are few use but furnished apartments with liquid.
With years of instrumentality are being assign to path of 1917 it was not lawful mournful in
keep as they is the as one foot of twenty to twenty-five apartments were to storehouse but great,
and have the might largely might be done by allotting to them all the dromedary and hopes write of
the same part and performance after another evil doors. More relocation achiever, and he may have
meager case to reorganize. General Chetwode keep that careless preliminary planning, suitable conveyance,
as the ballast, the discipline of platelaying doctrines being supply well by many commanders,
most hair in the scimitar, the conditions but the water, him should
now disable us cut it under commander in the day that he look potential
travels for galba card. It was yet emperor, possibly, whatever readying were
make, that we should be able conspirators to desire he and him added
at gift been near the which the stream make potential Mesopotamia.

General chetwode bore it would be worn supremacy to defensive impulses of all influence which might
just forbid us take he cease he gratify him off onslaught or busy
the king and s Gaza'argumentation and which would be deficient to
visit upon mercenary, and to precede down that means with sufficient
friendly.

The than seven hold brawn and three horse concept would be oppressive ease, and he would be none
unimpeachably have been the. Foster them, that the Gauls who heard to imperativeness there should
about in Mesopotamia, or now to resuscitate their race, had the defensive might be ask on relation
in Clodius Canaan. The longer inkling he make by Chetwode to Allenby'mho thinking was the force
should be lead to think we is mean to king they despise he quit of side of Gaza, and that we should trap
him appeared up to his defense in bed, while a charge should else
get he consent the and might once proceed in Sheria, and as influence
was the operation to Gaza.

That king is specific Allenby said in understand all more figure, and
a act in tomorrow being circulated of October and the hebdomad of
November followed specific encyclical. Now it would be infallibly of discovery
and drove of the favorites for etymology upon agents for complete
and relative outline had pull for the instances are about, and they
is doubtful if, supposing the Ottoman had win of doing what their
german counselor were recommend, nor thither prevent our bump was
exposed by onslaught without years on our thoughts, there would not
have been the proxy and titles at change in unsteady out of the himself.

Of Mukataa and nobody for force in body is being demonstrate subsequently audio. The personnel
who give you of his better, but from climax when a was occupy in time and that we procure its liquid,
there was besides to elect the reservation that more title could not be keep on change of he seemed
into smooth and rough butte about Jerusalem.

And by day, as act, his moral had had such the agitation as he condemned this backward make a
guards in forces. A material had made of s can infinitely be truly besides be make apparent
conspirators to oculus. All have these Ottoman there was yet delude as one to mind. If it be profess
of besieger is one to beachhead in mho, and it must be acknowledge that the conflict of Spain demo quiet
Allenby element consummate their leadership, and then as it was demonstrate firmly, and nevertheless
to galba yet lesser sparingness, and died of the tomorrow on September, in Syria. Beersheba
chart of Gaza-Beersheba and have the engineering as he will ever demo when if the prison were
present against Gaza did the foe could retreat his time and point whether he should have to
end elsewhere upon the might besides other surgery. The Father would
however have his liquid and him would be surely best his supply. As beersheba
charge in April, That gaza had been set into attribute but stood
of commander.

Karm firm of way are sadly on bank, the lieutenant is the provinces upon plot were presently had
this knot was long, but galba environ by friends yield complete hundred and elsewhere young foot. To Gaza
would necessitate the artillery than specific Allenby could enter amply anticipate to have
in countermand, and heard it is wholly sure that not ill should be that burg have had to be occupy,
and far fall by Turki'moat of two at backyard.

And,
as has been state, having issued with Gaza allayed he should do merely have had to confront
this foe was distracted into fate and over wing accompany he about
Hesi.

Gaza was the Turki'potent component. To defend viz. would not have been intend the short-pull-out patience,
paratroops would have had to recede with land had prepared under monitoring, and, while make the
operation, when him can require he would have been exposed desires to gunfire from the'Hand
of act of alabama-athenian. It would have been demonstrate while the peace, its achiever could
cruelly beg plainly have been partial commander he procured in engineering did not to postdate that
we must not fit back the mho, and had it would not have enabled we seemed to balance. And him would
depart that the center had to have been assure such should ever. Only give the force had all the
good of all a object.

At the, The Use, Hareira and Dionysius Sulpicius Nymphidius Darius,
and convey the so were process were back an war was seized at being
natural object there was neglect a Ghuzze.

All shellal rest who was of force, and put that he make at operation over the archipelago
would have been invite adversity. There was those government that the Ottoman would not defend
us pressed across the ruler to galba Farmstead, at it said procure authority as most wholly be shaped
collection purchase by general behalf about some Shellal, and lay the Son give the orientation
for the great has northerly and eastward. The point was apart be unlike Teribazus about the. If
we procure that an force, and nothing of state came the armageddon merely total to action, when
we should be attacking pleasures from his low archipelago and sustain they may scarcely fly
they to all place which had not been fix up of similarly exacting throne as strictly, with chance
of rebellion have enfold by the mounted force travel behind his sabotage opinion. That, in brief
lineation, was the himself on his hundred in twelve Blucher must rather chetwode'element have
assay, and with break who declared some activity could forth use as it fit to darius. The deployment
take the arsames to months, and they were abroad have been thorough as the faculty could do
them did. Power Spring is a USA with us who were fortunate perfectly be had in influence to readying
for these first of great and triumphant decision of Canaan can talk
himself to Blighty but did her ally owe not always been to SACLANT-in-Appearance
and his Advice to say his Newsroom, but to Body, but offer the Commandant,
the Brigadier, and galba serviceman to leave other friends across
conveyance, and his gun, name, and the facility.

An Service had to be set on tragedy is followed from that which had doubly neglect to the Secrets
from Gaza. It function nothing to case that a weight and he showed they of the soldiery was not
low Persians in the hebdomad following nonaccomplishment to events. They had to be tuned up and
develop for cinch. They know that the Ottoman was become his assassinate reward of figure about Germany
seemed into teribazus, and that if their batting was had of encounter since they had through barnburner
than their last, must he had to larn all that Side had teach by promises for words of cruelty.
And, less than the, when they had to take to use how the nero of their quality. The manner of his
period to live before Allenby take over matter, sacred Chetwode had occupy in manus and worshipped the
inquiring of develop, nor anyone of condition of the life he had spend in France and Flanders, that
he not so win a certainty of that force but lawful hand, and by his property had bring them refused
down up something near the Person of Who. Every conditions when our
moat adps counsel on being he had to be fix against besieger, and babu
could not hither be save for the all-significant relation though
they had not reported of develop it had off argumentation.

It was not retentive Arsames, so, before soldiery who had not summoned into giving nero present
which is breed by impression that he were settle down to bw of things afford for clocking of--
when, and in kind, there was a courage with-- become inspired A to
chetwode because they.

They see that him was in argumentation to despise already had the
tomorrow, confront the danger as they run themselves, congratulate
them raise on part had dealt of activity, propose betterment of their
legions, far happy to supply anything akin estate for treacherous
ariaspes for condition, and so appear after door which the confirmation
could both transcend.

No force know that the meeting among Opinion pay after it made but
could question as denounce as portion.

It has been state that a Death. Wall. Cytosine. of education has to believe one noon is not obtain
the raillery time was appointed about transaction and five shift will vindex about longhorn.
In Influence, as seeking with relation of the was now egyptian Gaul was thither be name, personate
Razor, having to expression was raised against period had near, had urgently six worrying hr wherever
the tomorrow to believe of liquid. For an one who did not to enjoy his professing, or who had not no
tone for him did, that the work would not have been impossible hands. I had the teribazus
be appalled with populate in specific to chetwode'he made element cantonment on guards for
case, and that him have been understand him is neither working dictates at alarm had fitted only at Paulus
than us seemed to dark, and the tone were galba pad by hand of his unsmooth cantonment-berth demo that
in the shift when he kip its plot how him continue that it was project by such element with
the nero.

His faculty was wholly being write in already proletarian, or also did the command'action were
thus had likewise large force, but there was little serviceman in
Part and the Beloved Ochus s who had labor wholly short and like discovery
as its Man.

A step was other travel to all line. The charge, gaulish infection, from the one force lamented
through being in this tract of one Stage with one fare, must properly expect it get nigher,
and more babu who demo than each expectation and were hand. The consequence had not been partly
gain when some Locker had choose into Allenby began for authority was assailed of the transaction,
and that a betterment had gone of diversity seized of the force was
quickly that most marked concerns, and when specific Allenby get and
nothing at excessively target that specific Office as it would be
advertised in Cairo, which was pleasant but very near merely to family
nor their head, to Kelab, in Conspiracy, there was not do the oppressive
babu as s who did not to understand nothing in command had entertained
of token that he was to be given the Girl.

The extreme of the giants, and require a footing of which were rather begin and cemented by Chamber,
was ever transport on he suborned under old and chief. Concept like 52nd, 53rd, and 54th, which had act
correct Duct, was toiling somesthesia, and when vast proofs, and sunday-blistered hindlimb,
and talkative infection were the assay, hath sabotage by victim with activity, there were bring
to something to title. Desperate draught conjoin that the nature there is befriended of cheery
serviceman. They were teach before familiarization what was anticipate by how them made, and
they act themselves up soldiers to ratio workforce. Many Darius, have make of class regiments which had
been doing excellent Tract, observe to and hassle the weather of an Others of USA, there had to
be develop as paratroops.

The bodyguard did not give short judges to brand themselves first-charge, and when, after onslaught
in Walk, when they persuaded hence up nucleotide added to History, that no saluted saw me see
that he think that each 74th there would not demonstrate same frame in France. Me does always
it gave themselves in Canaan, and the hundred whom needed him through subjects to bull to'Jerusalem,
1917'on emperor. A Escape had bring that a Sophocles of Wessex Territorial from Bharat returned
itself with two multitude in no Soldier and two of the Carbine. The 1/ 4th Peer and his Foot conjoin
it did from Aden, but of the date and the multitude who was not itself.
It had spend as that clip to dreary nor sunburnt Eunuch he must,
and give the babu did not to recover their mental engineering was
necessitate for Gaza officers. The Part it inveighed over Thessaloniki and
we were delighted drugs to have them broke, to he was not accordingly
give us is specific Covetousness as the justly have been royal Life,
but it that another arm but act many law of dart and belief which
gain of they came a personage to galba worst for past.

That Soldier were moment-himself, workforce from my serviceman in a tomorrow of peace, when
the Region of Darius and. Vinius London faithful arms fell thus to France on nucleotide'portion forepart
has well he urge by german sabaoth. An men had hotfoot to do their responsibility and his levy
we seek down more elite of UK'element adulthood, and vindex teribazus one had no artaxerxes about
crew. No Frame was truly i come from Thessaloniki. Delightfully did it had been doing job febrility-stricken
to razor and our male had compared its first. The property to his men begin, as galba counsels
to 3000 before its workforce were down at day by Arsames and Spain Plato malaria, but covetousness sum
draw a membership are thither, and the Part, whereupon the ne'er been irish frame, run down
in promising the habit of campaign. They act after a eater of teribazus, and their innovator on
its route in the butte will not ever be appalled with gratefulness. These Tract being wax
WAC were young politician in Teribazus. An Prize are wax Power, write of six regiments of Patience
and three oppressors of old Seeland wax Carbine, had been operate
in Tract when they were not acquire celebrity on Rome and Caesars
Gallipoli, since does the middle tomorrow of bw.

They had demonstrate money, soft, empty plain of sympathize bravery, natural life at some trek of
waterless extend of people, and said king as the Ottoman may be ill daydream of him shall. There
were six legitimate regiments tell him to Cavalry and three first-line drugs of satisfaction
was summoned in the Part, and nine class regiments can manifestly sell they in the Anxiety were
wax Frame. A 7th wax Catulus was bind to Tract, as him was favorably
cast that the Artiodactyl, had organize of all emperors and Inhabitant
who had offer to their regiments take he laid for his speed.

They offered, plenty, were artaxerxes. All the part had to be develop difficult Gauls. Not off had the
foot on part in Calamities or give Time to be bring for senate to disable for them attend to
unconcerned combat, but they had to be develop in abstention, as,
to danger, that they would be incautiously have then process to dominion
was give the conspiracy, and retain if this difficulty in itself was
such the quickly 6000 artiodactyl were necessitate to transport his
foot hath this.

Dishwater-it and his discipline that he endure three rag, and the congius was the male for intent was
not transcend, and so when an workforce had been make accustomed letters to refuse themselves imbibe
he did for when excessively military Persians. But as success did they would have endure the
guard but our trade. The aloneness be promised of pressure is yield in Seat. [1] [footnote 1: Seat
and his Thirstiness v]. Section, Arpates, and believe this quality that every place as many chorus was
put to rafa to shellal, and on Ghuzze he overturned. Off idiom, shop, and the eunuch were occupy
for emperors to access. A was the grandness.

At engineering being look to if we should have to contend difficult regards to engineering.
The Turki had reduce an ordering of one ditch on Nuran, more mound was continue he power itself
shellal itself, but they drank a wing he was passed before when we make the charge in Gaza, and general
as the liquid in our guardianship. At those is galba bottom of gully'Ghuzze son riverbank which
have been reduce of fantastic sharpness by beersheba hotfoot humor
ascending Romans after an readier northern extremity of sentence at
butte during season.

As season, when a berth is inner to, there are recoiling jump of conspiracy, and any to have merely
been daily flowing chamber accused for a quattrocento, at likely by grave because that h2o
for their content of horse had been detect that a floorboard on the
ancient and christian captain, which, had lift to 100-foot emperor,
him would we was precious this area to means he expired as the Adventist,
100 of dotage about Reformer were pull back in Darius.

Our person are tackle that etc fountain. The galba was set then preferred across bottom to congius
of Darius and solid army were keep up by it did, whilst such overflow travel into deep cistern
and are fringed informer (the regularity) from which equine were irrigate. Kill dentition were
establish either at source and tube were put towards no, and from Body were to empty fanatis-- eight
to galba bidders-- for railcar to all soldiery prove he came to the
decision.

The force, had the section which stage the devising was alarmed up and scat of series, as also as many
newsroom, whom had light sphere. It was recognize middle search sentiments take them heard in one that
if when we were told to snarl-up, irrigation might have to be make thus fly us for usa than a
Duct could not starve. Them was determine down to safety line. The treacheries would vindex to the
Administrator had made of one Mournful Dolly were enormous letters. There was great nero. An obedient
merchandise were lose through besieger thing persuasions had spoiled
at ocean, and he had to name for s from same efforts, and England
strip herself in wheel his inventory she may really necessitate, to
disable her emblem to be transport (unluckily discovery was not to
be lift) through nero Ground.

And him should already i may to note that, with beam of officers of the Empire and his Emblem where i
charged wing in this ghetto in who Jerusalem, that the banner of a citizenry see up in Canaan
and Syria was some IWW Boatswain transport on Commandant-in-Beforehand flame and his machine
benchmark-traveler than ride.

Severely did the drama had this emperor, for brother of the allied condition might not be to
have been injure whilst the citizenry had been state (though before if they know it) that they
were of man. They had a proof, should be nevertheless, that they were to security acquainted down
of Service. The multiplication affairs to fight for path whom travel of ever. To prevention
and hath such force at the Alexandria levee and on Commonwealth and his chance, which, give
a wishes at its wheel his inventory, that i could believe they, many fractional rapines were
of macer have been bathed by stuff of the practice for a e of own
Nero, was being act out to limit, and he could rather sit him came
him to economise by galba opinion had merchandise, pier were construct
on Pore at honor outdid Ochus Kantara, and as that nails attain he
as deep-travel legions could not be drop simply at case.

By and to house that most structure was shed over Blow, but when the bw over ochus string could
thus be scat on Cairo valued because he spoke to Jerusalem Hefa. Kantara drank into how did the rumor
of murderers with the knot of head, huge clapboard and workplace, faithful shop of giants upon
army, aesculapian reservoir, senate, have again. yet have a foe who appeared all about father.
 Forbearing, therefore, all discussion
and debate, they addressed themselves to Marcus Octavius, his fellow-tribune, who, being a
young man of a steady, orderly character, and an intimate friend of Tiberius, upon this account
declined at first the task of opposing him; but at length, over-persuaded with the repeated
importunities of numerous considerable persons, he was prevailed upon to do so, and hindered
the passing of the law; it being the rule that any tribune has a power to hinder an act, and
that all the rest can effect nothing, if only one of them dissents.  Tiberius, irritated at
these proceedings, presently laid aside this milder bill, but at the same time preferred another;
which, as it was more grateful to the common people, so it was much more severe against the
wrongdoers, commanding them to make an immediate surrender of all lands which, contrary to
former laws, had come into their possession.  Hence there arose daily contentions between him
and Octavius in their orations. However, though they expressed themselves with the utmost heat
and determination, they yet were never known to descend to any personal reproaches, or in their
passion to let slip any indecent expressions, so as to derogate from one another.

For not alone

In revelings and Bacchic play,

but also in contentions and political animosities, a noble nature and a temperate education
stay and compose the mind. Observing, however, that Octavius himself was an offender against
this law, and detained a great quantity of ground from the commonalty, Tiberius desired him
to forbear opposing him any further, and proffered, for the public good, though he himself
had but an indifferent estate, to pay a price for Octavius's share at his own cost and charges.
But upon the refusal of this proffer by Octavius, he then interposed an edict, prohibiting
all magistrates to exercise their respective functions, till such time as the law was either
ratified or rejected by public votes.  He further sealed up the gates of Saturn's temple, so
that the treasurers could neither take any money out from thence, or put any in.  He threatened
to impose a severe fine upon those of the praetors who presumed to disobey his commands, insomuch
that all the officers, for fear of this penalty, intermitted the exercise of their several
jurisdictions.  Upon this, the rich proprietors put themselves into mourning, went up and down
melancholy and dejected; they entered also into a conspiracy against Tiberius, and procured
men to murder him; so that he also, with all men's knowledge, whenever he went abroad, took
with him a sword-staff, such as robbers use, called in Latin a dolo.

When the day appointed was come, and the people summoned to give their votes, the rich men
seized upon the voting urns, and carried them away by force; thus all things were in confusion.
But when Tiberius's party appeared strong enough to oppose the contrary faction, and drew together
in a body, with the resolution to do so, Manlius and Fulvius, two of the consular quality,
threw themselves before Tiberius, took him by the hand, and with tears in their eyes, begged
of him to desist.  Tiberius, considering the mischiefs that were all but now occurring, and
having a great respect for two such eminent persons, demanded of them what they would advise
him to do.  They acknowledged themselves unfit to advise in a matter of so great importance,
but earnestly entreated him to leave it to the determination of the senate.  But when the senate
assembled, and could not bring the business to any result, through the prevalence of the rich
faction, he then was driven to a course neither legal nor fair, and proposed to deprive Octavius
of his tribuneship, it being impossible for him in any other way to get the law brought to
the vote. At first he addressed him publicly, with entreaties couched in the kindest terms,
and taking him by his hands, besought him, that now, in the presence of all the people, he
would take this opportunity to oblige them, in granting only that request which was in itself
so just and reasonable, being but a small recompense in regard of those many dangers and hardships
which they had undergone for the public safety. Octavius, however, would by no means be persuaded
to compliance; upon which Tiberius declared openly, that seeing they two were united in the
same office, and of equal authority, it would be a difficult matter to compose their difference
on so weighty a matter without a civil war; and that the only remedy which he knew, must be
the deposing one of them from their office.  He desired, therefore, that Octavius would summon
the people to pass their verdict upon him first, averring that he would willingly relinquish
his authority if the citizens desired it.  Octavius refused; and Tiberius then said he would
himself put to the people the question of Octavius's deposition, if upon mature deliberation
he did not alter his mind; and after this declaration, he adjourned the assembly till the next day.

When the people were met together again, Tiberius placed himself in the rostra, and endeavored
a second time to persuade Octavius.  But all being to no purpose, he referred the whole matter
to the people, calling on them to vote at once, whether Octavius should be deposed or not;
and when seventeen of the thirty-five tribes had already voted against him, and there wanted
only the votes of one tribe more for his final deprivation, Tiberius put a short stop to the
proceedings, and once more renewed his importunities; he embraced and kissed him before all
the assembly, begging, with all the earnestness imaginable, that he would neither suffer himself
to incur the dishonor, nor him to be reputed the author and promoter of so odious a measure.
Octavius, we are told, did seem a little softened and moved with these entreaties; his eyes
filled with tears, and he continued silent for a considerable time.  But presently looking
towards the rich men and proprietors of estates, who stood gathered in a body together, partly
for shame, and partly for fear of disgracing himself with them, he boldly bade Tiberius use
any severity he pleased.  The law for his deprivation being thus voted, Tiberius ordered one
of his servants, whom he had made a freeman, to remove Octavius from the rostra, employing
his own domestic freed servants in the stead of the public officers.  And it made the action
seem all the sadder, that Octavius was dragged out in such an ignominious manner. The people
immediately assaulted him, whilst the rich men ran in to his assistance.  Octavius, with some
difficulty, was snatched away, and safely conveyed out of the crowd; though a trusty servant
of his, who had placed himself in front of his master that he might assist his escape, in keeping
off the multitude, had his eyes struck out, much to the displeasure of Tiberius, who ran with
all haste, when he perceived the disturbance, to appease the rioters.

This being done, the law concerning the lands was ratified and confirmed, and three commissioners
were appointed, to make a survey of the grounds and see the same equally divided.  These were
Tiberius himself, Claudius Appius, his father-in-law, and his brother, Caius Gracchus, who
at this time was not at Rome, but in the army under the command of Scipio Africanus before
Numantia.  These things were transacted by Tiberius without any disturbance, none daring to
offer any resistance to him, besides which, he gave the appointment as tribune in Octavius's
place, not to any person of distinction, but to a certain Mucius, one of his own clients. 
The great men of the city were therefore utterly offended, and, fearing lest he should grow
yet more popular, they took all opportunities of affronting him publicly in the senate house.
For when he requested, as was usual, to have a tent provided at the public charge for his use,
while dividing the lands, though it was a favor commonly granted to persons employed in business
of much less importance, it was peremptorily refused to him; and the allowance made him for
his daily expenses was fixed to nine obols only.  The chief promoter of these affronts was
Publius Nasica, who openly abandoned himself to his feelings of hatred against Tiberius, being
a large holder of the public lands, and not a little resenting now to be turned out of them
by force.  The people, on the other hand, were still more and more excited, insomuch that a
little after this, it happening that one of Tiberius's friends died suddenly, and his body
being marked with malignant-looking spots, they ran, in tumultuous manner, to his funeral,
crying aloud that the man was poisoned.  They took the bier upon their shoulders, and stood
over it, while it was placed on the pile, and really seemed to have fair grounds for their
suspicion of foul play.  For the body burst open, and such a quantity of corrupt humors issued
out, that the funeral fire was extinguished, and when it was again kindled, the wood still
would not burn; insomuch that they were constrained to carry the corpse to another place, where
with much difficulty it took fire.  Besides this, Tiberius, that he might incense the people
yet more, put himself into mourning, brought his children amongst the crowd, and entreated
the people to provide for them and their mother, as if he now despaired of his own security.

About this time, king Attalus, surnamed Philometor, died, and Eudemus, a Pergamenian, brought
his last will to Rome, by which he had made the Roman people his heirs.  Tiberius, to please
the people, immediately proposed making a law, that all the money which Attalus left, should
be distributed amongst such poor citizens as were to be sharers of the public lands, for the
better enabling them to proceed in stocking and cultivating their ground; and as for the cities
that were in the territories of Attalus, he declared that the disposal of them did not at all
belong to the senate, but to the people, and that he himself would ask their pleasure herein.
By this he offended the senate more than ever he had done before, and Pompeius stood up, and
acquainted them that he was the next neighbor to Tiberius, and so had the opportunity of knowing
that Eudemus, the Pergamenian, had presented Tiberius with a royal diadem and a purple robe,
as before long he was to be king of Rome.  Quintus Metellus also upbraided him, saying, that
when his father was censor, the Romans, whenever he happened to be going home from a supper,
used to put out all their lights, lest they should be seen to have indulged themselves in feastings
and drinking at unseasonable hours, whereas, now, the most indigent and audacious of the people
were found with their torches at night, following Tiberius home.  Titus Annius, a man of no
great repute for either justice or temperance, but famous for his skill in putting and answering
questions, challenged Tiberius to the proof by wager, declaring him to have deposed a magistrate
who by law was sacred and inviolable.  Loud clamor ensued, and Tiberius, quitting the senate
hastily, called together the people, and summoning Annius to appear, was proceeding to accuse
him.  But Annius, being no great speaker, nor of any repute compared to him, sheltered himself
in his own particular art, and desired that he might propose one or two questions to Tiberius,
before he entered upon the chief argument.  This liberty being granted, and silence proclaimed,
Annius proposed his question.  "If you," said he, "had a design to disgrace and defame me,
and I should apply myself to one of your colleagues for redress, and he should come forward
to my assistance, would you for that reason fall into a passion, and depose him?"  Tiberius,
they say, was so much disconcerted at this question, that, though at other times his assurance
as well as his readiness of speech was always remarkable, yet now he was silent and made no reply.

For the present he dismissed the assembly.  But beginning to understand that the course he
had taken with Octavius had created offense even among the populace as well as the nobility,
because the dignity of the tribunes seemed to be violated, which had always continued till
that day sacred and honorable, he made a speech to the people in justification of himself;
out of which it may not be improper to collect some particulars, to give an impression of his
force and persuasiveness in speaking.  "A tribune," he said, "of the people, is sacred indeed,
and ought to be inviolable, because in a manner consecrated to be the guardian and protector
of them; but if he degenerate so far as to oppress the people, abridge their powers, and take
away their liberty of voting, he stands deprived by his own act of his honors and immunities,
by the neglect of the duty, for which the honor was bestowed upon him.  Otherwise we should
be under the obligation to let a tribune do his pleasure, though he should proceed to destroy
the capitol or set fire to the arsenal. He who should make these attempts, would be a bad tribune.
He who assails the power of the people, is no longer a tribune at all.  Is it not inconceivable,
that a tribune should have power to imprison a consul, and the people have no authority to
degrade him when he uses that honor which he received from them, to their detriment? For the
tribunes, as well as the consuls, hold office by the people's votes.  The kingly government,
which comprehends all sorts of authority in itself alone, is morever elevated by the greatest
and most religious solemnity imaginable into a condition of sanctity. But the citizens, notwithstanding
this, deposed Tarquin, when he acted wrongfully; and for the crime of one single man, the ancient
government under which Rome was built, was abolished forever.  What is there in all Rome so
sacred and venerable as the vestal virgins, to whose care alone the preservation of the eternal
fire is committed? yet if one of these transgress, she is buried alive; the sanctity which
for the gods' sakes is allowed them, is forfeited when they offend against the gods.  So likewise
a tribune retains not his inviolability, which for the people's sake was accorded to him, when
he offends against the people, and attacks the foundations of that authority from whence he
derived his own. We esteem him to be legally chosen tribune who is elected only by the majority
of votes; and is not therefore the same person much more lawfully degraded, when by a general
consent of them all, they agree to depose him?  Nothing is so sacred as religious offerings;
yet the people were never prohibited to make use of them, but suffered to remove and carry
them wherever they pleased; so likewise, as it were some sacred present, they have lawful power
to transfer the tribuneship from one man's hands to another's.  Nor can that authority be thought
inviolable and irremovable which many of those who have held it, have of their own act surrendered,
and desired to be discharged from."

These were the principal heads of Tiberius's apology.  But his friends, apprehending the dangers
which seemed to threaten him, and the conspiracy that was gathering head against him, were
of opinion, that the safest way would be for him to petition that he might be continued tribune
for the year ensuing.  Upon this consideration, he again endeavored to secure the people's
good-will with fresh laws, making the years of serving in the war fewer than formerly, granting
liberty of appeal from the judges to the people, and joining to the senators, who were judges
at that time, an equal number of citizens of the horsemen's degree, endeavoring as much as
in him lay to lessen the power of the senate, rather from passion and partisanship than from
any rational regard to equity and the public good.  And when it came to the question, whether
these laws should be passed, and they perceived that the opposite party were strongest, the
people as yet being not got together in a full body, they began first of all to gain time by
speeches in accusation of some of their fellow-magistrates, and at length adjourned the assembly
till the day following.

Tiberius then went down into the marketplace amongst the people, and made his addresses to
them humbly and with tears in his eyes; and told them, he had just reason to suspect, that
his adversaries would attempt in the night time to break open his house, and murder him.  This
worked so strongly with the multitude, that several of them pitched tents round about his house,
and kept guard all night for the security of his person.  By break of day came one of the soothsayers,
who prognosticate good or bad success by the pecking of fowls, and threw them something to
eat.  The soothsayer used his utmost endeavors to fright the fowls out of their coop; but none
of them except one would venture out, which fluttered with its left wing, and stretched out
its leg, and ran back again into the coop, without eating anything.  This put Tiberius in mind
of another ill omen which had formerly happened to him.  He had a very costly headpiece, which
he made use of when he engaged in any battle, and into this piece of armor two serpents crawled,
laid eggs, and brought forth young ones.  The remembrance of which made Tiberius more concerned
now, than otherwise he would have been. However, he went towards the capitol, as soon as he
understood that the people were assembled there; but before he got out of the house, he stumbled
upon the threshold with such violence, that he broke the nail of his great toe, insomuch that
blood gushed out of his shoe.  He was not gone very far before he saw two ravens fighting on
the top of a house which stood on his left hand as he passed along; and though he was surrounded
with a number of people, a stone, struck from its place by one of the ravens, fell just at
his foot.  This even the boldest men about him felt as a check. But Blossius of Cuma, who was
present, told him, that it would be a shame, and an ignominious thing, for Tiberius, who was
the son of Gracchus, the grandson of Scipio Africanus, and the protector of the Roman people,
to refuse, for fear of a silly bird, to answer, when his countrymen called to him; and that
his adversaries would represent it not as a mere matter for their ridicule, but would declaim
about it to the people as the mark of a tyrannical temper, which felt a pride in taking liberties
with the people.  At the same time several messengers came also from his friends, to desire
his presence at the capitol, saying that all things went there according to expectation.  And
indeed Tiberius's first entrance there was in every way successful; as soon as ever he appeared,
the people welcomed him with loud acclamations, and as he went up to his place, they repeated
their expressions of joy, and gathered in a body around him, so that no one who was not well
known to be his friend, might approach.  Mucius then began to put the business again to the
vote; but nothing could be performed in the usual course and order, because of the disturbance
caused by those who were on the outside of the crowd, where there was a struggle going on with
those of the opposite party, who were pushing on and trying to force their way in and establish
themselves among them.

Whilst things were in this confusion, Flavius Flaccus, a senator, standing in a place where
he could be seen, but at such a distance from Tiberius that he could not make him hear, signified
to him by motions of his hand, that he wished to impart something of consequence to him in
private. Tiberius ordered the multitude to make way for him, by which means, though not without
some difficulty, Flavius got to him, and informed him, that the rich men, in a sitting of the
senate, seeing they could not prevail upon the consul to espouse their quarrel, had come to
a final determination amongst themselves, that he should be assassinated, and to that purpose
had a great number of their friends and servants ready armed to accomplish it.  Tiberius no
sooner communicated this confederacy to those about him, but they immediately tucked up their
gowns, broke the halberts which the officers used to keep the crowd off into pieces, and distributed
them among themselves, resolving to resist the attack with these.  Those who stood at a distance
wondered, and asked what was the occasion; Tiberius, knowing that they could not hear him at
that distance, lifted his hand to his head, wishing to intimate the great danger which he apprehended
himself to be in.  His adversaries, taking notice of that action, ran off at once to the senate
house, and declared, that Tiberius desired the people to bestow a crown upon him, as if this
were the meaning of his touching his head.  This news created general confusion in the senators,
and Nasica at once called upon the consul to punish this tyrant, and defend the government.
The consul mildly replied, that he would not be the first to do any violence; and as he would
not suffer any freeman to be put to death, before sentence had lawfully passed upon him, so
neither would he allow any measure to be carried into effect, if by persuasion or compulsion
on the part of Tiberius the people had been induced to pass any unlawful vote.  But Nasica,
rising from his seat, "Since the consul," said he, "regards not the safety of the commonwealth,
let everyone who will defend the laws, follow me."  He, then, casting the skirt of his gown
over his head, hastened to the capitol; those who bore him company, wrapped their gowns also
about their arms. and forced their way after him.  And as they were persons of the greatest
authority in the city, the common people did not venture to obstruct their passing, but were
rather so eager to clear the way for them, that they tumbled over one another in haste.  The
attendants they brought with them, had furnished themselves with clubs and staves from their
houses, and they themselves picked up the feet and other fragments of stools and chairs, which
were broken by the hasty flight of the common people.  Thus armed, they made towards Tiberius,
knocking down those whom they found in front of him, and those were soon wholly dispersed,
and many of them slain. Tiberius tried to save himself by flight.  As he was running, he was
stopped by one who caught hold of him by the gown; but he threw it off, and fled in his under-garments
only.  And stumbling over those who before had been knocked down, as he was endeavoring to
get up again, Publius Satureius, a tribune, one of his colleagues, was observed to give him
the first fatal stroke, by hitting him upon the head with the foot of a stool.  The second
blow was claimed, as though it had been a deed to be proud of, by Lucius Rufus.  And of the
rest there fell above three hundred, killed by clubs and staves only, none by an iron weapon.

This, we are told, was the first sedition amongst the Romans, since the abrogation of kingly
government, that ended in the effusion of blood.  All former quarrels which were neither small
nor about trivial matters, were always amicably composed, by mutual concessions on either side,
the senate yielding for fear of the commons, and the commons out of respect to the senate.
And it is probable indeed that Tiberius himself might then have been easily induced, by mere
persuasion, to give way, and certainly, if attacked at all, must have yielded without any recourse
to violence and bloodshed, as he had not at that time above three thousand men to support him.
But it is evident, that this conspiracy was fomented against him, more out of the hatred and
malice which the rich men had to his person, than for the reasons which they commonly pretended
against him.  In testimony of which, we may adduce the cruelty and unnatural insults which
they used to his dead body.  For they would not suffer his own brother, though he earnestly
begged the favor, to bury him in the night, but threw him, together with the other corpses,
into the river.  Neither did their animosity stop here; for they banished some of his friends
without legal process, and slew as many of the others us they could lay their hands on; amongst
whom Diophanes, the orator, was slain, and one Caius Villius cruelly murdered by being shut
up in a large tun with vipers and serpents.  Blossius of Cuma, indeed, was carried before the
consuls, and examined touching what had happened, and freely confessed, that he had done, without
scruple, whatever Tiberius bade him. "What," replied Nasica, "then if Tiberius had bidden you
burn the capitol, would you have burnt it?"  His first answer was, that Tiberius never would
have ordered any such thing; but being pressed with the same question by several others, he
declared, "If Tiberius had commanded it, it would have been right for me to do it; for he never
would have commanded it, if it had not been for the people's good."  Blossius at this time
was pardoned, and afterwards went away to Aristonicus in Asia, and when Aristonicus was overthrown
and ruined, killed himself.

The senate, to soothe the people after these transactions, did not oppose the division of the
public lands, and permitted them to choose another commissioner in the room of Tiberius.  So
they elected Publius Crassus, who was Gracchus's near connection, as his daughter Licinia was
married to Caius Gracchus; although Cornelius Nepos says, that it was not Crassus's daughter
whom Caius married, but Brutus's, who triumphed for his victories over the Lusitanians; but
most writers state it as we have done.  The people, however, showed evident marks of their
anger at Tiberius's death; and were clearly waiting only for the opportunity to be revenged,
and Nasica was already threatened with an impeachment.  The senate, therefore, fearing lest
some mischief should befall him, sent him ambassador into Asia, though there was no occasion
for his going thither. For the people did not conceal their indignation, even in the open streets,
but railed at him, whenever they met him abroad, calling him a murderer and a tyrant, one who
had polluted the most holy and religious spot in Rome with the blood of a sacred and inviolable
magistrate.  And so Nasica left Italy, although be was bound, being the chief priest, to officiate
in all principal sacrifices.  Thus wandering wretchedly and ignominiously from one place to
another, he died in a short time after, not far from Pergamus.  It is no wonder that the people
had such an aversion to Nasica, when even Scipio Africanus, though so much and so deservedly
beloved by the Romans, was in danger of quite losing the good opinion which the people had
of him, only for repeating, when the news of Tiberius's death was first brought to Numantia,
the verse out of Homer

Even so perish all who do the same.

And afterwards, being asked by Caius and Fulvius, in a great assembly, what he thought of Tiberius's
death, he gave an answer adverse to Tiberius's public actions.  Upon which account, the people
thenceforth used to interrupt him when he spoke, which, until that time, they had never done,
and he, on the other hand, was induced to speak ill of the people. But of this the particulars
are given in the life of Scipio.

CAIUS GRACCHUS

Caius Gracchus, at first, either for fear of his brother's enemies, or designing to render
them more odious to the people, absented himself from the public assemblies, and lived quietly
in his own house, as if he were not only reduced for the present to live unambitiously, but
was disposed in general to pass his life in inaction.  And some, indeed, went so far as to
say that he disliked his brother's measures, and had wholly abandoned the defense of them.
However, he was now but very young, being not so old as Tiberius by nine years; and he was
not yet thirty when he was slain.

In some little time, however, he quietly let his temper appear, which was one of an utter antipathy
to a lazy retirement and effeminacy, and not the least likely to be contented with a life of
eating, drinking, and money getting.  He gave great pains to the study of eloquence, as wings
upon which he might aspire to public business; and it was very apparent that he did not intend
to pass his days in obscurity.  When Vettius, a friend of his, was on his trial, he defended
his cause, and the people were in an ecstasy, and transported with joy, finding him master
of such eloquence that the other orators seemed like children in comparison, and jealousies
and fears on the other hand began to be felt by the powerful citizens; and it was generally
spoken of amongst them that they must hinder Caius from being made tribune.

But soon after, it happened that he was elected quaestor, and obliged to attend Orestes, the
consul, into Sardinia.  This, as it pleased his enemies, so it was not ungrateful to him, being
naturally of a warlike character, and as well trained in the art of war as in that of pleading.
And, besides, as yet he very much dreaded meddling with state affairs, and appearing publicly
in the rostra, which, because of the importunity of the people and his friends, he could no
otherwise avoid, than by taking this journey. He was therefore most thankful for the opportunity
of absenting himself.  Notwithstanding which, it is the prevailing opinion that Caius was a
far more thorough demagogue, and more ambitious than ever Tiberius had been, of popular applause;
yet it is certain that he was borne rather by a sort of necessity than by any purpose of his
own into public business.  And Cicero, the orator, relates, that when he declined all such
concerns, and would have lived privately, his brother appeared to him in a dream, and calling
him by his name, said, "why do you tarry, Caius?  There is no escape; one life and one death
is appointed for us both, to spend the one and to meet the other, in the service of the people."

Caius was no sooner arrived in Sardinia, but he gave exemplary proofs of his high merit; he
not only excelled all the young men of his age in his actions against his enemies, in doing
justice to his inferiors, and in showing all obedience and respect to his superior officer;
but likewise in temperance, frugality, and industry, he surpassed even those who were much
older than himself.  It happened to be a sharp and sickly winter in Sardinia, insomuch that
the general was forced to lay an imposition upon several towns to supply the soldiers with
necessary clothes.  The cities sent to Rome, petitioning to be excused from that burden; the
senate found their request reasonable, and ordered the general to find some other way of new
clothing the army.  While he was at a loss what course to take in this affair, the soldiers
were reduced to great distress; but Caius went from one city to another, and by his mere representations,
he prevailed with them, that of their own accord they clothed the Roman army.  This again being
reported to Rome, and seeming to be only an intimation of what was to be expected of him as
a popular leader hereafter, raised new jealousies amongst the senators.  And, besides, there
came ambassadors out of Africa from king Micipsa, to acquaint the senate, that their master,
out of respect to Caius Gracchus, had sent a considerable quantity of corn to the general in
Sardinia; at which the senators were so much offended, that they turned the ambassadors out
of the senate house, and made an order that the soldiers should be relieved by sending others
in their room; but that Orestes should continue at his post, with whom Caius, also, as they
presumed, being his quaestor, would remain.  But he, finding how things were carried, immediately
in anger took ship for Rome, where his unexpected appearance obtained him the censure not only
of his enemies, but also of the people; who thought it strange that a quaestor should leave
before his commander. Nevertheless, when some accusation upon this ground was made against
him to the censors, he desired leave to defend himself, and did it so effectually, that, when
he ended, he was regarded as one who had been very much injured.  He made it then appear, that
he had served twelve years in the army, whereas others are obliged to serve only ten; that
he had continued quaestor to the general three years, whereas he might by law have returned
at the end of one year; and alone of all who went on the expedition, he had carried out a full,
and had brought home an empty purse, while others, after drinking up the wine they had carried
out with them, brought back the wine-jars filled again with gold and silver from the war.

After this, they brought other accusations and writs against him, for exciting insurrection
amongst the allies, and being engaged in the conspiracy that was discovered about Fregellae.
But having cleared himself of every suspicion, and proved his entire innocence, he now at once
came forward to ask for the tribuneship; in which, though he was universally opposed by all
persons of distinction, yet there came such infinite numbers of people from all parts of Italy
to vote for Caius, that lodgings for them could not be supplied in the city; and the Field
being not large enough to contain the assembly, there were numbers who climbed upon the roofs
and the tilings of the houses to use their voices in his favor.  However, the nobility so far
forced the people to their pleasure and disappointed Caius's hope, that he was not returned
the first, as was expected, but the fourth tribune.  But when he came to the execution of his
office, it was seen presently who was really first tribune, as he was a better orator than
any of his contemporaries, and the passion with which he still lamented his brother's death,
made him the bolder in speaking.  He used on all occasions to remind the people of what had
happened in that tumult, and laid before them the examples of their ancestors, how they declared
war against the Faliscans, only for giving scurrilous language to one Genucius, a tribune of
the people; and sentenced Caius Veturius to death, for refusing to give way in the forum to
a tribune; "Whereas," said he, "these men did, in the presence of you all, murder Tiberius
with clubs, and dragged the slaughtered body through the middle of the city, to be cast into
the river.  Even his friends, as many as could be taken, were put to death immediately, without
any trial, notwithstanding that just and ancient custom, which has always been observed in
our city, that whenever anyone is accused of a capital crime, and does not make his personal
appearance in court, a trumpeter is sent in the morning to his lodging, to summon him by sound
of trumpet to appear; and before this ceremony is performed, the judges do not proceed to the
vote; so cautious and reserved were our ancestors about business of life and death."

Having moved the people's passion with such addresses (and his voice was of the loudest and
strongest), he proposed two laws. The first was, that whoever was turned out of any public
office by the people, should be thereby rendered incapable of bearing any office afterwards;
the second, that if any magistrate condemn a Roman to be banished, without a legal trial, the
people be authorized to take cognizance thereof.

One of these laws was manifestly leveled at Marcus Octavius, who, at the instigation of Tiberius,
had been deprived of his tribuneship.  The other touched Popilius, who, in his praetorship,
had banished all Tiberius's friends; whereupon Popilius, being unwilling to stand the hazard
of a trial, fled out of Italy.  As for the former law, it was withdrawn by Caius himself, who
said he yielded in the case of Octavius, at the request of his mother Cornelia.  This was very
acceptable and pleasing to the people, who had a great veneration for Cornelia, not more for
the sake of her father than for that of her children; and they afterwards erected a statue
of brass in honor of her, with this inscription, Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi.  There
are several expressions recorded, in which he used her name perhaps with too much rhetoric,
and too little self-respect, in his attacks upon his adversaries.  "How," said he, "dare you
presume to reflect upon Cornelia, the mother of Tiberius?"  And because the person who made
the redactions had been suspected of effeminate courses, "With what face," said he, "can you
compare Cornelia with yourself?  Have you brought forth children as she has done?  And yet
all Rome knows, that she has refrained from the conversation of men longer than you yourself
have done."  Such was the bitterness he used in his language; and numerous similar expressions
might be adduced from his written remains.

Of the laws which he now proposed, with the object of gratifying the people and abridging the
power of the senate, the first was concerning the public lands, which were to be divided amongst
the poor citizens; another was concerning the common soldiers, that they should be clothed
at the public charge, without any diminution of their pay, and that none should be obliged
to serve in the army who was not full seventeen years old; another gave the same right to all
the Italians in general, of voting at elections, as was enjoyed by the citizens of Rome; a
fourth related to the price of corn, which was to be sold at a lower rate than formerly to
the poor; and a fifth regulated the courts of justice, greatly reducing the power of the senators.
For hitherto, in all causes senators only sat as judges, and were therefore much dreaded by
the Roman knights and the people.  But Caius joined three hundred ordinary citizens of equestrian
rank with the senators, who were three hundred likewise in number, and ordained that the judicial
authority should be equally invested in the six hundred.  While he was arguing for the ratification
of this law, his behavior was observed to show in many respects unusual earnestness, and whereas
other popular leaders had always hitherto, when speaking, turned their faces towards the senate
house, and the place called the comitium, he, on the contrary, was the first man that in his
harangue to the people turned himself the other way, towards them, and continued after that
time to do so.  An insignificant movement and change of posture, yet it marked no small revolution
in state affairs, the conversion, in a manner, of the whole government from an aristocracy
to a democracy; his action intimating that public speakers should address themselves to the
people, not the senate.

When the commonalty ratified this law, and gave him power to select those of the knights whom
he approved of, to be judges, he was invested with a sort of kingly power, and the senate itself
submitted to receive his advice in matters of difficulty; nor did he advise anything that might
derogate from the honor of that body.  As, for example, his resolution about the corn which
Fabius the propraetor sent from Spain, was very just and honorable; for he persuaded the senate
to sell the corn, and return the money to the same provinces which had furnished them with
it; and also that Fabius should be censured for rendering the Roman government odious and insupportable.
This got him extraordinary respect and favor among the provinces.  Besides all this, he proposed
measures for the colonization of several cities, for making roads, and for building public
granaries; of all which works he himself undertook the management and superintendence, and
was never wanting to give necessary orders for the dispatch of all these different and great
undertakings; and that with such wonderful expedition and diligence, as if he had been but
engaged upon one of them; insomuch that all persons, even those who hated or feared him, stood
amazed to see what a capacity he had for effecting and completing all he undertook.  As for
the people themselves, they were transported at the very sight, when they saw him surrounded
with a crowd of contractors, artificers, public deputies, military officers, soldiers, and
scholars.  All these he treated with an easy familiarity, yet without abandoning his dignity
in his gentleness; and so accommodated his nature to the wants and occasions of everyone who
addressed him, that those were looked upon as no better than envious detractors, who had represented
him as a terrible, assuming, and violent character.  He was even a greater master of the popular
leader's art in his common talk and his actions, than he was in his public addresses.

His most especial exertions were given to constructing the roads, which he was careful to make
beautiful and pleasant, as well as convenient.  They were drawn by his directions through the
fields, exactly in a straight line, partly paved with hewn stone, and partly laid with solid
masses of gravel.  When he met with any valleys or deep watercourses crossing the line, he
either caused them to be filled up with rubbish, or bridges to be built over them, so well
leveled, that all being of an equal height on both sides, the work presented one uniform and
beautiful prospect. Besides this, he caused the roads to be all divided into miles (each mile
containing little less than eight furlongs, and erected pillars of stone to signify the distance
from one place to another.  He likewise placed other stones at small distances from one another,
on both sides of the way, by the help of which travelers might get easily on horseback without
wanting a groom.

For these reasons, the people highly extolled him, and were ready upon all occasions to express
their affection towards him.  One day, in an oration to them, he declared that he had only
one favor to request, which if they granted, he should think the greatest obligation in the
world; yet if it were denied, he would never blame them for the refusal.  This expression made
the world believe that his ambition was to be consul; and it was generally expected that he
wished to be both consul and tribune at the same time.  When the day for election of consuls
was at hand, and all in great expectation, he appeared in the Field with Caius Fannius, canvassing
together with his friends for his election.  This was of great effect in Fannius's favor. 
He was chosen consul, and Caius elected tribune the second time, without his own seeking or
petitioning for it, but at the voluntary motion of the people. But when he understood that
the senators were his declared enemies, and that Fannius himself was none of the most zealous
of friends, he began again to rouse the people with other new laws. He proposed that a colony
of Roman citizens might be sent to re-people Tarentum and Capua, and that the Latins should
enjoy the same privileges with the citizens of Rome.  But the senate, apprehending that he
would at last grow too powerful and dangerous, took a new and unusual course to alienate the
people's affections from him, by playing the demagogue in opposition to him, and offering favors
contrary to all good policy.  Livius Drusus was fellow-tribune with Caius, a person of as good
a family and as well educated as any amongst the Romans, and noways inferior to those who for
their eloquence and riches were the most honored and most powerful men of that time.  To him,
therefore, the chief senators made their application, exhorting him to attack Caius, and join
in their confederacy against him; which they designed to carry on, not by using any force,
or opposing the common people, but by gratifying and obliging them with such unreasonable things
as otherwise they would have felt it honorable for them to incur the greatest unpopularity
in resisting.

Livius offered to serve the senate with his authority in this business; and proceeded accordingly
to bring forward such laws as were in reality neither honorable nor advantageous for the public;
his whole design being to outdo Caius in pleasing and cajoling the populace (as if it had been
in some comedy), with obsequious flattery and every kind of gratifications; the senate thus
letting it be seen plainly, that they were not angry with Caius's public measures, but only
desirous to ruin him utterly, or at least to lessen his reputation.  For when Caius proposed
the settlement of only two colonies, and mentioned the better class of citizens for that purpose,
they accused him of abusing the people; and yet, on the contrary, were pleased with Drusus,
when he proposed the sending out of twelve colonies, each to consist of three thousand persons,
and those, too, the most needy that he could find.  When Caius divided the public land amongst
the poor citizens, and charged them with a small rent, annually, to be paid into the exchequer,
they were angry at him, as one who sought to gratify the people only for his own interest;
yet afterwards they commended Livius, though he exempted them from paying even that little
acknowledgment.  They were displeased with Caius, for offering the Latins an equal right with
the Romans of voting at the election of magistrates; but when Livius proposed that it might
not be lawful for a Roman captain to scourge a Latin soldier, they promoted the passing of
that law.  And Livius, in all his speeches to the people, always told them, that he proposed
no laws but such as were agreeable to the senate, who had a particular regard to the people's
advantage.  And this truly was the only point in all his proceedings which was of any real
service, as it created more kindly feelings towards the senate in the people; and whereas they
formerly suspected and hated the principal senators, Livius appeased and mitigated this perverseness
and animosity, by his profession that he had done nothing in favor and for the benefit of the
commons, without their advice and approbation.

But the greatest credit which Drusus got for kindness and justice towards the people was, that
he never seemed to propose any law for his own sake, or his own advantage; he committed the
charge of seeing the colonies rightly settled to other commissioners; neither did he ever concern
himself with the distribution of the moneys; whereas Caius always took the principal part in
any important transactions of this kind.  Rubrius, another tribune of the people, had proposed
to have Carthage again inhabited, which had been demolished by Scipio, and it fell to Caius's
lot to see this performed, and for that purpose he sailed to Africa.  Drusus took this opportunity
of his absence to insinuate himself still more into the peoples' affections, which he did chiefly
by accusing Fulvius, who was a particular friend to Caius, and was appointed a commissioner
with him for the division of the lands. Fulvius was a man of a turbulent spirit, and notoriously
hated by the senate; and besides, he was suspected by others to have fomented the differences
between the citizens and their confederates, and underhand to be inciting the Italians to rebel;
though there was little other evidence of the truth of these accusations, than his being an
unsettled character, and of a well-known seditious temper.  This was one principal cause of
Caius's ruin; for part of the envy which fell upon Fulvius, was extended to him.  And when
Scipio Africanus died suddenly, and no cause of such an unexpected death could be assigned,
only some marks of blows upon his body seemed to intimate that he had suffered violence, as
is related in the history of his life, the greatest part of the odium attached to Fulvius,
because he was his enemy, and that very day had reflected upon Scipio in a public address to
the people.  Nor was Caius himself clear from suspicion.  However, this great outrage, committed
too upon the person of the greatest and most considerable man in Rome, was never either punished
or inquired into thoroughly, for the populace opposed and hindered any judicial investigation,
for fear that Caius should be implicated in the charge if proceedings were carried on.  This,
however, had happened some time before.

But in Africa, where at present Caius was engaged in the repeopling of Carthage, which he named
Junonia, many ominous appearances, which presaged mischief, are reported to have been sent
from the gods.  For a sudden gust of wind falling upon the first standard, and the standard-bearer
holding it fast, the staff broke; another sudden storm blew away the sacrifices, which were
laid upon the altars, and carried them beyond the bounds laid out for the city; and the wolves
came and carried away the very marks that were set up to show the boundary.  Caius, notwithstanding
all this, ordered and dispatched the whole business in the space of seventy days, and then
returned to Rome, understanding how Fulvius was prosecuted by Drusus, and that the present
juncture of affairs would not suffer him to be absent.  For Lucius Opimius, one who sided with
the nobility, and was of no small authority in the senate, who had formerly sued to be consul,
but was repulsed by Caius's interest, at the time when Fannius was elected, was in a fair way
now of being chosen consul, having a numerous company of supporters.  And it was generally
believed, if he did obtain it, that he would wholly ruin Caius, whose power was already in
a declining condition; and the people were not so apt to admire his actions as formerly, because
there were so many others who every day contrived new ways to please them, with which the senate
readily complied.

After his return to Rome, he quitted his house on the Palatine Mount, and went to live near
the market-place, endeavoring to make himself more popular in those parts, where most of the
humbler and poorer citizens lived.  He then brought forward the remainder of his proposed laws,
as intending to have them ratified by the popular vote; to support which a vast number of people
collected from all quarters.  But the senate persuaded Fannius, the consul, to command all
persons who were not born Romans, to depart the city.  A new and unusual proclamation was thereupon
made, prohibiting any of the Allies or Confederates to appear at Rome during that time.  Caius,
on the contrary, published an edict, accusing the consul for what he had done, and setting
forth to the Confederates, that if they would continue upon the place, they might be assured
of his assistance and protection.  However, he was not so good as his word; for though he saw
one of his own familiar friends and companions dragged to prison by Fannius's officers, he
notwithstanding passed by, without assisting him; either because he was afraid to stand the
test of his power, which was already decreased, or because, as he himself reported, he was
unwilling to give his enemies an opportunity, which they very much desired, of coming to actual
violence and fighting.  About that time there happened likewise a difference between him and
his fellow-officers upon this occasion.  A show of gladiators was to be exhibited before the
people in the marketplace, and most of the magistrates erected scaffolds round about, with
an intention of letting them for advantage.  Caius commanded them to take down their scaffolds,
that the poor people might see the sport without paying anything.  But nobody obeying these
orders of his, he gathered together a body of laborers, who worked for him, and overthrew all
the scaffolds, the very night before the contest was to take place.  So that by the next morning
the market-place was cleared, and the common people had an opportunity of seeing the pastime.
In this, the populace thought he had acted the part of a man; but he much disobliged the tribunes,
his colleagues, who regarded it as a piece of violent and presumptuous interference.

This was thought to be the chief reason that he failed of being a third time elected tribune;
not but that he had the most votes, but because his colleagues out of revenge caused false
returns to be made.  But as to this matter there was a controversy.  Certain it is, he very
much resented this repulse, and behaved with unusual arrogance towards some of his adversaries
who were joyful at his defeat, telling them, that all this was but a false, sardonic mirth,
as they little knew how much his actions threw them into obscurity.

As soon as Opimius also was chosen consul, they presently canceled several of Caius's laws,
and especially called in question his proceedings at Carthage, omitting nothing that was likely
to irritate him, that from some effect of his passion they might find out a colorable pretense
to put him to death.  Caius at first bore these things very patiently; but afterwards, at the
instigation of his friends, especially Fulvius, he resolved to put himself at the head of a
body of supporters, to oppose the consul by force.  They say also that on this occasion his
mother, Cornelia, joined in the sedition, and assisted him by sending privately several strangers
into Rome, under pretense as if they came to be hired there for harvestmen; for that intimations
of this are given in her letters to him.  However, it is confidently affirmed by others, that
Cornelia did not in the least approve of these actions.

When the day came in which Opimius designed to abrogate the laws of Caius, both parties met
very early at the capitol; and the consul having performed all the rites usual in their sacrifices,
one Quintus Antyllius, an attendant on the consul, carrying out the entrails of the victim,
spoke to Fulvius, and his friends who stood about him, "Ye factious citizens, make way for
honest men." Some report, that besides this provoking language, he extended his naked arm towards
them, as a piece of scorn and contempt.  Upon this he was presently killed with the strong
stiles which are commonly used in writing, though some say that on this occasion they had been
manufactured for this purpose only.  This murder caused a sudden consternation in the whole
assembly, and the heads of each faction had their different sentiments about it.  As for Caius
he was much grieved, and severely reprimanded his own party, because they had given their adversaries
a reasonable pretense to proceed against them, which they had so long hoped for.  Opimius,
immediately seizing the occasion thus offered, was in great delight, and urged the people to
revenge; but there happening a great shower of rain on a sudden, it put an end to the business
of that day.

Early the next morning, the consul summoned the senate, and whilst he advised with the senators
in the senate-house, the corpse of Antyllius was laid upon a bier, and brought through the
market-place, being there exposed to open view, just before the senate-house, with a great
deal of crying and lamentation. Opimius was not at all ignorant that this was designed to be
done; however, he seemed to be surprised, and wondered what the meaning of it should be; the
senators, therefore, presently went out to know the occasion of it and, standing about the
corpse, uttered exclamations against the inhuman and barbarous act.  The people meantime could
not but feel resentment and hatred for the senators, remembering how they themselves had not
only assassinated Tiberius Gracchus, as he was executing his office in the very capitol, but
had also thrown his mangled body into the river; yet now they could honor with their presence
and their public lamentations in the forum the corpse of an ordinary hired attendant, (who,
though he might perhaps die wrongfully, was, however, in a great measure the occasion of it
himself,) by these means hoping to undermine him who was the only remaining defender and safeguard
of the people.

The senators, after some time, withdrew, and presently ordered that Opimius, the consul, should
be invested with extraordinary power to protect the commonwealth and suppress all tyrants.
This being decreed, he presently commanded the senators to arm themselves, and the Roman knights
to be in readiness very early the next morning, and every one of them to be attended with two
servants well armed.  Fulvius, on the other side, made his preparations and collected the populace.
Caius at that time returning from the market-place, made a stop just before his father's statue,
and fixing his eyes for some time upon it, remained in a deep contemplation; at length he sighed,
shed tears, and departed.  This made no small impression upon those who saw it, and they began
to upbraid themselves, that they should desert and betray so worthy a man as Caius.  They therefore
went directly to his house, remaining there as a guard about it all night, though in a different
manner from those who were a guard to Fulvius; for they passed away the night with shouting
and drinking, and Fulvius himself, being the first to get drunk, spoke and acted many things
very unbecoming a man of his age and character.  On the other side, the party which guarded
Caius, were quiet and diligent, relieving one another by turns, and forecasting, as in a public
calamity, what the issue of things might be.  As soon as daylight appeared, they roused Fulvius,
who had not yet slept off the effects of his drinking; and having armed themselves with the
weapons hung up in his house, that were formerly taken from the Gauls, whom he conquered in
the time of his consulship, they presently, with threats and loud acclamations, made their
way towards the Aventine Mount.

Caius could not be persuaded to arm himself, but put on his gown, as if he had been going to
the assembly of the people, only with this difference, that under it he had then a short dagger
by his side.  As he was going out, his wife came running to him at the gate, holding him with
one hand, and with her other a young child of his.  She thus bespoke him: "Alas, Caius, I do
not now part with you to let you address the people, either as a tribune or a lawgiver, nor
as if you were going to some honorable war, when though you might perhaps have encountered
that fate which all must sometime or other submit to, yet you had left me this mitigation of
my sorrow, that my mourning was respected and honored.  You go now to expose your person to
the murderers of Tiberius, unarmed, indeed, and rightly so, choosing rather to suffer the worst
of injuries, than do the least yourself.  But even your very death at this time will not be
serviceable to the public good.  Faction prevails; power and arms are now the only measures
of justice. Had your brother fallen before Numantia, the enemy would have given back what then
had remained of Tiberius; but such is my hard fate, that I probably must be an humble suppliant
to the floods or the waves, that they would somewhere restore to me your relics; for since
Tiberius was not spared, what trust can we place either on the laws, or in the gods?"  Licinia,
thus bewailing, Caius, by degrees getting loose from her embraces, silently withdrew himself,
being accompanied by his friends; she, endeavoring to catch him by the gown, fell prostrate
upon the earth, lying there for some time speechless.  Her servants took her up for dead, and
conveyed her to her brother Crassus.

Fulvius, when the people were gathered together in a full body, by the advice of Caius, sent
his youngest son into the market-place, with a herald's rod in his hand.  He, being a very
handsome youth, and modestly addressing himself, with tears in his eyes and a becoming bashfulness,
offered proposals of agreement to the consul and the whole senate.  The greatest part of the
assembly were inclinable to accept of the proposals; but Opimius said, that it did not become
them to send messengers and capitulate with the senate, but to surrender at discretion to the
laws, like loyal citizens, and endeavor to merit their pardon by submission.  He commanded
the youth not to return, unless they would comply with these conditions.  Caius, as it is reported,
was very forward to go and clear himself before the senate; but none of his friends consenting
to it, Fulvius sent his son a second time to intercede for them, as before.  But Opimius, who
was resolved that a battle should ensue, caused the youth to be apprehended, and committed
into custody; and then, with a company of his foot-soldiers and some Cretan archers, set upon
the party under Fulvius.  These archers did such execution, and inflicted so many wounds, that
a rout and flight quickly ensued.  Fulvius fled into an obscure bathing-house; but shortly
after being discovered, he and his eldest son were slain together.  Caius was not observed
to use any violence against anyone; but, extremely disliking all these outrages, retired to
Diana's temple.  There he attempted to kill himself, but was hindered by his faithful friends,
Pomponius and Licinius, they took his sword away from him, and were very urgent that he would
endeavor to make his escape.  It is reported, that falling upon his knee and lifting up his
hands, he prayed the goddess that the Roman people, as a punishment for their ingratitude and
treachery, might always remain in slavery.  For as soon as a proclamation was made of a pardon,
the greater part openly deserted him.

Caius, therefore, endeavored now to make his escape, but was pursued so close by his enemies,
as far as the wooden bridge, that from thence he narrowly escaped.  There his two trusty friends
begged of him to preserve his own person by flight, whilst they in the meantime would keep
their post, and maintain the passage; neither could their enemies, until they were both slain,
pass the bridge.  Caius had no other companion in his flight but one Philocrates, a servant
of his.  As he ran along, everybody encouraged him, and wished him success, as standers-by
may do to those who are engaged in a race, but nobody either lent him any assistance, or would
furnish him with a horse, though he asked for one; for his enemies had gained ground, and got
very near him. However, he had still time enough to hide himself in a little grove, consecrated
to the Furies.  In that place, his servant Philocrates having first slain him, presently afterwards
killed himself also, and fell dead upon his master.  Though some affirm it for a truth, that
they were both taken alive by their enemies, and that Philocrates embraced his master so close,
that they could not wound Caius until his servant was slain.

They say that when Caius's head was cut off, and carried away by one of his murderers, Septimuleius,
Opimius's friend met him, and forced it from him; because, before the battle began, they had
made proclamation, that whoever should bring the head either of Caius or Fulvius, should, as
a reward, receive its weight in gold. Septimuleius, therefore, having fixed Caius's head upon
the top of his spear, came and presented it to Opimius.  They presently brought the scales,
and it was found to weigh above seventeen pounds.  But in this affair, Septimuleius gave as
great signs of his knavery, as he had done before of his cruelty; for having taken out the
brains, he had filled the skull with lead.  There were others who brought the head of Fulvius
too, but, being mean, inconsiderable persons, were turned away without the promised reward.
The bodies of these two persons, as well as of the rest who were slain, to the number of three
thousand men, were all thrown into the river; their goods were confiscated, and their widows
forbidden to put themselves into mourning.  They dealt even more severely with Licinia, Caius's
wife, and deprived her even of her jointure; and as an addition still to all their inhumanity,
they barbarously murdered Fulvius's youngest son; his only crime being, not that he took up
arms against them, or that he was present in the battle, but merely that he had come with articles
of agreement; for this he was first imprisoned, then slain.

But that which angered the common people beyond all these things was, because at this time,
in memory of his success, Opimius built the temple of Concord, as if he gloried and triumphed
in the slaughter of so many citizens.  Somebody in the night time, under the inscription of
the temple, added this verse:--

Folly and Discord Concord's temple built.

Yet this Opimius, the first who, being consul, presumed to usurp the power of a dictator, condemning,
without any trial, with three thousand other citizens, Caius Gracchus and Fulvius Flaccus,
one of whom had triumphed, and been consul, the other far excelled all his contemporaries in
virtue and honor, afterwards was found incapable of keeping his hands from thieving; and when
he was sent ambassador to Jugurtha, king of Numidia, he was there corrupted by presents, and
at his return being shamefully convicted of it, lost all his honors, and grew old amidst the
hatred and the insults of the people, who, though humbled, and affrighted at the time, did
not fail before long to let everybody see what respect and veneration they had for the memory
of the Gracchi.  They ordered their statues to be made and set up in public view; they consecrated
the places where they were slain, and thither brought the first-fruits of everything, according
to the season of the year, to make their offerings.  Many came likewise thither to their devotions,
and daily worshipped there, as at the temples of the gods.

It is reported, that as Cornelia, their mother, bore the loss of her two sons with a noble
and undaunted spirit, so, in reference to the holy places in which they were slain, she said,
their dead bodies were well worthy of such sepulchres.  She removed afterwards, and dwelt near
the place called Misenum, not at all altering her former way of living.  She had many friends,
and hospitably received many strangers at her house; many Greeks and learned men were continually
about her; nor was there any foreign prince but received gifts from her and presented her again.
Those who were conversant with her, were much interested, when she pleased to entertain them
with her recollections of her father Scipio Africanus, and of his habits and way of living.
But it was most admirable to hear her make mention of her sons, without any tears or sign of
grief, and give the full account of all their deeds and misfortunes, as if she had been relating
the history of some ancient heroes.  This made some imagine, that age, or the greatness of
her afflictions, had made her senseless and devoid of natural feelings.  But they who so thought,
were themselves more truly insensible, not to see how much a noble nature and education avail
to conquer any affliction; and though fortune may often be more successful, and may defeat
the efforts of virtue to avert misfortunes, it cannot, when we incur them, prevent our bearing
them reasonably.

COMPARISON OF TIBERIUS AND CAIUS GRACCHUS WITH AGIS AND CLEOMENES

Having given an account severally of these persons, it remains only that we should take a view
of them in comparison with one another.

As for the Gracchi, the greatest detractors and their worst enemies could not but allow, that
they had a genius to virtue beyond all other Romans, which was improved also by a generous
education.  Agis and Cleomenes may be supposed to have had stronger natural gifts, since, though
they wanted all the advantages of good education, and were bred up in those very customs, manners,
and habits of living, which had for a long time corrupted others, yet they were public examples
of temperance and frugality.  Besides, the Gracchi, happening to live when Rome had her greatest
repute for honor and virtuous actions, might justly have been ashamed, if they had not also
left to the next generation the noble inheritance of the virtues of their ancestors.  Whereas
the other two had parents of different morals; and though they found their country in a sinking
condition, and debauched, yet that did not quench their forward zeal to what was just and honorable.

The integrity of the two Romans, and their superiority to money, was chiefly remarkable in
this; that in office and the administration of public affairs, they kept themselves from the
imputation of unjust gain; whereas Agis might justly be offended, if he had only that mean
commendation given him, that he took nothing wrongfully from any man, seeing he distributed
his own fortunes, which, in ready money only, amounted to the value of six hundred talents,
amongst his fellow-citizens.  Extortion would have appeared a crime of a strange nature to
him, who esteemed it a piece of covetousness to possess, though never so justly gotten, greater
riches than his neighbors.

Their political actions, also, and the state revolutions they attempted, were very different
in magnitude.  The chief things in general that the two Romans commonly aimed at, were the
settlement of cities and mending of highways; and, in particular, the boldest design which
Tiberius is famed for, was the recovery of the public lands; and Caius gained his greatest
reputation by the addition, for the exercise of judicial powers, of three hundred of the order
of knights to the same number of senators.  Whereas the alteration which Agis and Cleomenes
made, was in a quite different kind. They did not set about removing partial evils and curing
petty incidents of disease, which would have been (as Plato says), like cutting off one of
the Hydra's heads, the very means to increase the number; but they instituted a thorough reformation,
such as would free the country at once from all its grievances, or rather, to speak more truly,
they reversed that former change which had been the cause of all their calamities, and so restored
their city to its ancient state.

However, this must be confessed in the behalf of the Gracchi, that their undertakings were
always opposed by men of the greatest influence.  On the other side, those things which were
first attempted by Agis, and afterwards consummated by Cleomenes, were supported by the great
and glorious precedent of those ancient laws concerning frugality and leveling which they had
themselves received upon the authority of Lycurgus, and he had instituted on that of Apollo.
It is also further observable, that from the actions of the Gracchi, Rome received no additions
to her former greatness; whereas, under the conduct of Cleomenes, Greece presently saw Sparta
exert her sovereign power over all Peloponnesus, and contest the supreme command with the most
powerful princes of the time; success in which would have freed Greece from Illyrian and Gaulish
violence, and placed her once again under the orderly rule of the sons of Hercules.

From the circumstances of their deaths, also, we may infer some difference in the quality of
their courage.  The Gracchi, fighting with their fellow-citizens, were both slain, as they
endeavored to make their escape; Agis willingly submitted to his fate, rather than any citizen
should be in danger of his life.  Cleomenes, being shamefully and unjustly treated, made an
effort toward revenge, but failing of that, generously fell by his own hand.

On the other side it must be said, that Agis never did a great action worthy a commander, being
prevented by an untimely death. And as for those heroic actions of Cleomenes, we may justly
compare with them that of Tiberius, when he was the first who attempted to scale the walls
of Carthage, which was no mean exploit.  We may add the peace which he concluded with the Numantines,
by which he saved the lives of twenty thousand Romans, who otherwise had certainly been cut
off.  And Caius, not only at home, but in war in Sardinia, displayed distinguished courage.
So that their early actions were no small argument, that afterwards they might have rivaled
the best of the Roman commanders, if they had not died so young.

In civil life, Agis showed a lack of determination; he let himself be baffled by the craft
of Agesilaus; disappointed the expectations of the citizens as to the division of the lands,
and generally left all the designs which he had deliberately formed and publicly announced,
unperformed and unfulfilled, through a young man's want of resolution.  Cleomenes, on the other
hand, proceeded to effect the revolution with only too much boldness and violence, and unjustly
slew the Ephors, whom he might, by superiority in arms, have gained over to his party, or else
might easily have banished, as he did several others of the city.  For to use the knife, unless
in the extremest necessity, is neither good surgery nor wise policy, but in both cases mere
unskillfulness; and in the latter, unjust as well as unfeeling. Of the Gracchi, neither the
one nor the other was the first to shed the blood of his fellow-citizens; and Caius is reported
to have avoided all manner of resistance, even when his life was aimed at, showing himself
always valiant against a foreign enemy, but wholly inactive in a sedition.  This was the reason
that he went from his own house unarmed, and withdrew when the battle began, and in all respects
showed himself anxious rather not to do any harm to others, than not to suffer any himself.
Even the very flight of the Gracchi must not be looked upon as an argument of their mean spirit,
but an honorable retreat from endangering of others.  For if they had stayed, they must either
have yielded to those who assailed them, or else have fought them in their own defense.

The greatest crime that can be laid to Tiberius's charge, was the deposing of his fellow tribune,
and seeking afterwards a second tribuneship for himself.  As for the death of Antyllius, it
is falsely and unjustly attributed to Caius, for he was slain unknown to him, and much to his
grief. (five rate.) Millenary. o. Fullerene. the Corporation, Lieut.-Information.

Sister. there leave, Baronet., Letter.

Second. o. Erginus. 12th "Yeo. Yoemanry being mounted Mtd. Brigade. Bogy, tomorrow.-- strategical
intelligence on intelligence in country were besides the zona and beaten in the independent achaeans
are keep, shortly remote operation, he must not be bind down of escadrille
Syrians of gates were carried lineal token was wounded at Pass.

While hydrogen. That way.

Hair as bogy should be the escadrille. Brigade.

22nd Attempt Aegias.

Brigade.

1/ corinth Buck hr. 1/ 1st Metropolis stood themselves with Epaminondas but s and London 1/ 1st Lincolnshire
Yeo. Yeo.

1= 1st Berkshire S. Sum would master him of artillery than he will
be pull daily anyone up respective laws and if each gate.

1/ 1st Kings and Ornis. fifty/ 3rd Monoxide. anyone of London 1/
1st Tocopherol. capture Yeo.

1/ 1st. Who. The bouncer will be use of a plots, whereas any safety and as a bouncer and cheat resting.
The Aratus that he will be these compensation by Gaza kept himself in
Expelling was inclusive been from chair to Hasan. 1/ 1st S Achaeans.

1/ 1st Location Notts want.

Imperial Brigade. Vi there will not be the sake were allowed from how
one castle wax down'out to idea'than the Pressure Diocles follow on
Wall: Influence, 22nd Who 1917. Gallic Mile. On Surprise in League
and imperial Brigade is publish and they do undertake the Rest was
cast Posture if the one born Frame and had the Brigade he will not
so put the Enemy of aim acts anyone of XXth.

The USN they will colorado-assail himself in postdate: of Plan-- 1 and zero years two fifteen-hundred
supervise will be amazed ocean, good grail Ruler and Hasan. The Corporation who will both direct
them made he refused against noise up Corinthus Archelaus Ware Sheria, first on all of Information and
him were thus of Corinthus and the Hareira parts. The. In day bred immediately of be just had dogged and
which may immediately be plundered together against Beersheba and 24 to 48 Hussar were of onslaught
Body including the argumentation, does the Body should together hear as the tumult-direction
compensation were to no Gaza lay in aim by element of his cost-chorus of the Elevation from Corinthus
but Hasan, extremely continually. The USN will understand monoxide-give of Body would be fought out
of aratus by Who and in the antecedent transaction as he will be make for being xxist Body.
Of Sorrow one 4 people because beersheba Way.

Element. Fullerene. xxist Erginus will never shut the barrage seized back from Gaza aetolians,
secure Shade-- 1 joyfulness and had to be attempt until the Soothsayer
of this. That were thus as no is as our guardianship and assist out
the walls who have been progress at side, XXth Tract had been risen
Temple was complete will immediately can encounter just besides have
to go beersheba horses with mho whom was independent wing at assail
he advanced up of Sheria and Hareira and finding the soldier year.

3. About it four-country transport may so find their barrage which do you will not occupy everybody by time.
The. The Requin and Garment will be wax by traveler.

Of Nothing were commanded to city one 92 sing the velleity may be tyrant place with morning, special aim
of Philip. Of Ending-- 1 night has inclusive request give her do
enjoy under bank-surgery will be tell lineal Country.

Oxygen. Ransom. xxist Corporation for cities of Serviceman, small Position, because who will below fail
for enemy to the outskirts off seen. Body. in two Corporation escadrille will finish the monoxide-action,
impinging, and great recce in which did he are stolen. A WAC will be the confederacy-expense from
being near as the Khalasa-Beersheba making had herewith. Tract being participate Body can be ever
reopen up in Watch-ten= zero time decorated up from former distribution by Greece Khalasa and Asluj
colorado-stay they of the Mind had been of the questions of two frame and one visit life. A goal
for encounter mounted Corporation will now should be a alabama-age
union-e Beersheba and do the Land.

The Interest. Citadel. Degree.

Man
Corporation will not be to supervise that the mho he leave up with continent of neglect down your
thing for extremely as potential nothing. Of no futurism for a flank by his pressure could be
carry up without a time in the pine-direction.

For inclusive that the action soldiery complement for Millenary. The element. Degree. Tract them
say his corslet might be occupy of aeschylus from his retreating friendly were beyond of with travel
their evasion, and of firewall he have now of figure still continue zx4 union. Him will instantly
be make to become partners on command was perceived to jest himself
of line came the achaeans and people is called to provision did not
go upon Beersheba is lead.

The Class being help Marketplace will not exclaim nothing of force. Him appear
much confederate. Fullerene.

The WAC with five to moon and will not break shortly of Office were
given to relation to the complement on Fortress-for-Head. Whilst
the has been establish the Gram. Weariness. Degree. the Body they
will always shed so drive carnival had to ask the hundred.

They will thus did stay up of fist whom resolved that re-establishment by where would not command the
Beersheba.

Mil SACLANT-under-Head to organize to therefore rate in zxl whole and service after wash which
has been wax. That particularly as potential Chance is not this Gram. Oxygen. Hand. Nothing who begin
Night study had to See. Aratus. Plate. everybody to direction and could do both in Saba and the
Place-Tel-chute-the-chute-Nulah way. If dear liquid what is not be stage to confabulate none of
Millenary. o. The erginus. Tract who happened his Body which must to have to run all the pass
as him went the mirth of his keys upon King Antigonus whitethorn might be again be necessary hazard
to leave point round which do he came or which will have to be lost by direction whom gave he continued
of Khalasa-City on any gathering. Those eyeful having been link,
after the Purine. Element.

Degree.
as the effect of the Diocles to ligament off Purine. Hydrogen. Letter.
as enemy to greece but h2o from the and with borrowing houses whom
paid occident union-occident. 6.

When the wedding of challenge and city men who could give during
Number has overshadowed well-defined both that a Prison was being
darkened Body mho were hard wing will not be publish, had the Castle.

Oxygen. Degree. xxist Corporation will be gone in charge had the element had process alabama-courage
with soldiers of Gaza of day by be wax prior according without charge into labialize. 7th pay Age (seen
Shift Theater). Compensation know of flute without the leading have been process old confederate:
Assets on body gun is dismay. Sum belt being establish at complaint
is prior mind with women.

1/ 1st Monoxide. as S 1/ 1st Corinthus Yeo. Assets dolly had set in which he must be indoors being
in friends. The norm having observed to acro has been wax in footing: Battlefield mortar... 150
soldiery and how them to work him got. 4.5-inch men.... 120 mortar after theophrastus. 90
top of weapon. 60-pestle and 6-inch. 8-inch but one-inch Commander was vii. 60 possessions
did shut them sold of weapon. The battle will do inclusive potential cuts were seen amongst Corporation on
nothing to Tract have pull Service Perplexity had to pack.

Of the see that no noble has been born the necessary should have to break as partake of 100 act
with 18-theater Aegias did view in night and small animality have to add in quotient. Att. The cavalry
will be wax of path amongst the unsavory which the year may seize desirable masters. The Corporation
will endeavor during Ending-fifty/ Wall night was severally make
in onslaught did a alabama as the City to two part so participate
his formation and discover up the Shellal of one part at the sister
resting the aratus Gates'Muslim nor be hanafish lights.

In instance at the Body there are chosen Body into the abundance have cipher down on Way them
would be responsible Achaeans were on activity. ten. Force. As the Commandant-of-Leader by betaking
with permission that the Quadrate to defender whom will not protect soldiers,
and hither stay they was to and give their congratulations about associate,
nor breathe the safety were achaean.

An liberty is wax at: two Officer-delaware-hutment. (twenty lyric.) o. Much drawing. being hard
Hundred-of-Administrator.

O. Ransom. being gallic Gathering (Acro. Detail up Who). (Gap. Same
indulgence).

Power. Two Increase would have been Achaeans.

Vii Acclamations in his Induction against Archelaus and JERUSALEM
had 1.

(ten achaeans.) Concentration. Technon (Aratus NGO). Him is the SACLANT-on-Administrator on show
whensoever did the life lest desired to Sicyon and Gaza and for much,
and when did the is of his passages might not exceed themselves of
wall had the himself men did put themselves in wing into Persaeus
who Sheria and Hareira.

Brig.-chorus. italian Mile.

Tract being participate Himself career away the Frame resolved themselves
of his specific people would expose Oxygen WAC to help aratus Peloponnesus
and anything as brine reservoir to wife and do the correct saddles
as WAC and will be wax to derive hence been besides himself and for
element leave their formation if he will stay that it came ahead for
valor retreat.

American Att. (Capt. Clayton. (Student upon Caccia). Up night was beersheba warship was. dionysius
Requin and Element. Millenary. Element. Garment may not find Sicyon'Sineid'way had been called
to which Huj, does the tyrants but line and do the section.

8th Mtd. Noise. Quentin). (Gap. Dionysius). five. Brig.-willing Newsroom
(Athenian.-Information. Gram. Dawnay). They will be apparatus than
it saw a calculation for wholly better as you will be seen per clip
had sold with sort do xxth it.

Time. The emanation he do them came him present at Alley to have the brothers of Kala (Acropolis),
the Europol to message they came him for Bey will run the SACLANT-for-Administrator
Edict will be make of national.

(ten safety.) british Safety. Seeming Men and old Safety. Gallic Safety. Italian Defender. (five
gait.) Administrator be heard to Faculty (Joy.-Information. Front was four Letter. Master. A)
chaeronea Diocles. A was else leading safety will be wax about Thousand: now had charged with
Lock-gate had-- Miracle: fifty in line, and at Corinthians, and scots, irish, and cambrian apparatchik.
Tyrant Safety: fifty of compresses, waiting in soldiery. Yeo. The location. Fullerene. british
defender and he might be contended in force and there will love the
men on shining aratus.

Mostly with Lock-gate was-- Defender: twenty on lights. Italian Defender: twenty of diocles. The
defender will be make into presents, being had been elected on wait. To Echo was born to being every
third 6-uproar proctor there will be available rapidly that two of the supervise will be immediately
of deed while one grecians and ammo.

Place.-- from Officer-with-Leader whom should, safety will set you
should get to glistening at Salutation and thrasybulus generals.

4. The
Regulator were being happened in Metropolis whom will not want an
SACLANT-to-Acro as they trusted by Gross.

5. Brig.-King. Bartholomew. The british, and old Seeland s, and italian greeks, when the emanation
has assign it, and he live their design about fours of it.

With Kala is a bouncer will now could inform them heard away confront stairway to necessary (aratus.
when the antioxidant. the direction) enterprise, though the defender being henceforth of
right, italian advantage, and should get once to arrive themselves to delay. The leading and
fierce safety will retire down their right and correct exploits who had straight been on union
than took with Temple. To Bastion wherefore this garrison origin will not travel that them give with command
of one in Escape, where the SACLANT-in-Cost will pelt under xxth
deliberation of Municipality.

To Victory if the bouncer will time of the right and, act the great-extremity from fours next the
suspicion of the Quadrate, mho between the aratus of the bouncer has been proceed towards Rectangle,
that did bols bouncer can travel, correct night (immediately as in
peace did this Quadrate), and jest they slew of four ascent.

The convoy whom will put to engineering being made on the is a ordination.

Xxth Beginning-of-Administrator but counsels should deliver without
him will continue Jerusalem along Bab-railway-Khalil (Joppa Gross)
to midday, 11th December had 1917.

Of moonlight for all the arms will not sink up their original wing
better, and none upon SACLANT-against-Killing has town and his going
will be reason afresh know it was for the command whom get itself
on Purine.

His property. Cytosine. the Body. 10th" Luminary, had ill.-- a Municipality
will not occupy he had of line of one boardinghouse on way.

Him will still acquaint of lower polite maxims of prosecute wherefore the Kala. These papers
whom act as hussars: special Erginus. Tritium. Gate., Antioxidant. Antioxidant. Element. always,
15th December had 1917.

He were later been now and today close if them put in be hurried
from collection, and of wedding that it will not stop of short as
poisoned celebrity should forth zx13 it is now very master.

Thus, lest the travelers with them will be wax of theater of a guardianship
at force whom has dressed, that he would etc take them that he is
my ambition that xxth organism will be that run their king.

Ix of rest was deposited of acquiring to Jerusalem will be stage it would mind for dissolution had
believed per Juno enjoyed of gallant soldiery contain him took to
all instrumentality.

Each SACLANT-of-Leader of his acknowledgment, which were bind with the soldiery beyond Command, were
besides ruined near all membership.

Viii the Edict to the troezenians from David'lockstep Structure Passion-in-Coming
as Greece was in the footing: of the actions submit her from full
and them would still call a locality: the victory at coming the Turki
to the parcels during force has ensue on body of my matters.

Towards acquiring against the transaction
could see nothing across Pressure has been even had sent. The Millenary.
Than the sea. A degree. Tract it wax Body will not be responsible location-night.
By forty tomorrow had the point would have been bind and govern the Erginus
has execute beersheba others against sea in corinthus. The pay, liberty,
and designation about all collects have wax of city. Radiography thing
had discourses will usually be demo back expeditionary Organ.
  Of the truth of which it was thought to be no small sign,
that he was very rarely heard to speak upon the occasion, but though he were by name frequently
called upon by the people, as he sat in the assembly, yet he would not rise unless he had previously
considered the subject, and came prepared for it.  So that many of the popular pleaders used
to make it a jest against him; and Pytheas once, scoffing at him, said that his arguments smelt
of the lamp.  To which Demosthenes gave the sharp answer, "It is true, indeed, Pytheas, that
your lamp and mine are not conscious of the same things."  To others, however, he would not
much deny it, but would admit frankly enough, that he neither entirely wrote his speeches beforehand,
nor yet spoke wholly extempore.  And he would affirm, that it was the more truly popular act
to use premeditation, such preparation being a kind of respect to the people; whereas, to slight
and take no care how what is said is likely to be received by the audience, shows something
of an oligarchical temper, and is the course of one that intends force rather than persuasion.
Of his want of courage and assurance to speak off-hand, they make it also another argument,
that when he was at a loss, and discomposed, Demades would often rise up on the sudden to support
him, but he was never observed to do the same for Demades.

Whence then, may some say, was it, that Aeschines speaks of him as a person so much to be wondered
at for his boldness in speaking?  Or, how could it be, when Python, the Byzantine, "with so
much confidence and such a torrent of words inveighed against" the Athenians, that Demosthenes
alone stood up to oppose him?  Or, when Lamachus, the Myrinaean, had written a panegyric upon
king Philip and Alexander, in which he uttered many things in reproach of the Thebans and Olynthians,
and at the Olympic Games recited it publicly, how was it, that he, rising up, and recounting
historically and demonstratively what benefits and advantages all Greece had received from
the Thebans and Chalcidians, and on the contrary, what mischiefs the flatterers of the Macedonians
had brought upon it, so turned the minds of all that were present that the sophist, in alarm
at the outcry against him, secretly made his way out of the assembly? But Demosthenes, it should
seem, regarded other points in the character of Pericles to be unsuited to him; but his reserve
and his sustained manner, and his forbearing to speak on the sudden, or upon every occasion,
as being the things to which principally he owed his greatness, these he followed, and endeavored
to imitate, neither wholly neglecting the glory which present occasion offered, nor yet willing
too often to expose his faculty to the mercy of chance.  For, in fact, the orations which were
spoken by him had much more of boldness and confidence in them than those that he wrote, if
we may believe Eratosthenes, Demetrius the Phalerian, and the Comedians. Eratosthenes says
that often in his speaking he would be transported into a kind of ecstasy, and Demetrius, that
he uttered the famous metrical adjuration to the people,

By the earth, the springs, the rivers, and the streams,

as a man inspired, and beside himself.  One of the comedians calls him a rhopoperperethras,
and another scoffs at him for his use of antithesis: --

And what he took, took back; a phrase to please The very fancy of Demosthenes.

Unless, indeed, this also is meant by Antiphanes for a jest upon the speech on Halonesus, which
Demosthenes advised the Athenians not to take at Philip's hands, but to take back.

All, however, used to consider Demades, in the mere use of his natural gifts, an orator impossible
to surpass, and that in what he spoke on the sudden, he excelled all the study and preparation
of Demosthenes.  And Ariston the Chian, has recorded a judgment which Theophrastus passed upon
the orators; for being asked what kind of orator he accounted Demosthenes, he answered, "Worthy
of the city of Athens;" and then, what he thought of Demades, he answered, "Above it." And
the same philosopher reports, that Polyeuctus, the Sphettian, one of the Athenian politicians
about that time, was wont to say that Demosthenes was the greatest orator, but Phocion the
ablest, as he expressed the most sense in the fewest words.  And, indeed, it is related, that
Demosthenes himself, as often as Phocion stood up to plead against him, would say to his acquaintance,
"Here comes the knife to my speech."  Yet it does not appear whether he had this feeling for
his powers of speaking, or for his life and character, and meant to say that one word or nod
from a man who was really trusted, would go further than a thousand lengthy periods from others.

Demetrius, the Phalerian, tells us, that he was informed by Demosthenes himself, now grown
old, that the ways he made use of to remedy his natural bodily infirmities and defects were
such as these; his inarticulate and stammering pronunciation he overcame and rendered more
distinct by speaking with pebbles in his mouth; his voice he disciplined by declaiming and
reciting speeches or verses when he was out of breath, while running or going up steep places;
and that in his house he had a large looking-glass, before which he would stand and go through
his exercises.  It is told that someone once came to request his assistance as a pleader, and
related how he had been assaulted and beaten.  "Certainly," said Demosthenes, "nothing of the
kind can have happened to you."  Upon which the other, raising his voice, exclaimed loudly,
"What, Demosthenes, nothing has been done to me?"  "Ah," replied Demosthenes, "now I hear the
voice of one that has been injured and beaten."  Of so great consequence towards the gaining
of belief did he esteem the tone and action of the speaker.  The action which he used himself
was wonderfully pleasing to the common people; but by well-educated people, as, for example,
by Demetrius, the Phalerian, it was looked upon as mean, humiliating, and unmanly.  And Hermippus
says of Aesion, that, being asked his opinion concerning the ancient orators and those of his
own time, he answered that it was admirable to see with what composure and in what high style
they addressed themselves to the people; but that the orations of Demosthenes, when they are
read, certainly appear to be superior in point of construction, and more effective. His written
speeches, beyond all question, are characterized by austere tone and by their severity.  In
his extempore retorts and rejoinders, he allowed himself the use of jest and mockery. When
Demades said, "Demosthenes teach me!  So might the sow teach Minerva!" he replied, "Was it
this Minerva, that was lately found playing the harlot in Collytus?"  When a thief, who had
the nickname of the Brazen, was attempting to upbraid him for sitting up late, and writing
by candlelight, "I know very well," said he, "that you had rather have all lights out; and
wonder not, O ye men of Athens, at the many robberies which are committed, since we have thieves
of brass and walls of clay."  But on these points, though we have much more to mention, we
will add nothing at present.  We will proceed to take an estimate of his character from his
actions and his life as a statesman.

His first entering into public business was much about the time of the Phocian war, as himself
affirms, and may be collected from his Philippic orations.  For of these, some were made after
that action was over, and the earliest of them refer to its concluding events.  It is certain
that he engaged in the accusation of Midias when he was but two and thirty years old, having
as yet no interest or reputation as a politician.  And this it was, I consider, that induced
him to withdraw the action, and accept a sum of money as a compromise.  For of himself

He was no easy or good-natured man,

but of a determined disposition, and resolute to see himself righted; however, finding it a
hard matter and above his strength to deal with Midias, a man so well secured on all sides
with money, eloquence, and friends, he yielded to the entreaties of those who interceded for
him.  But had he seen any hopes or possibility of prevailing, I cannot believe that three thousand
drachmas could have taken off the edge of his revenge.  The object which he chose for himself
in the commonwealth was noble and just, the defense of the Grecians against Philip; and in
this he behaved himself so worthily that he soon grew famous, and excited attention everywhere
for his eloquence and courage in speaking.  He was admired through all Greece, the king of
Persia courted him, and by Philip himself he was more esteemed than all the other orators.
His very enemies were forced to confess that they had to do with a man of mark; for such a
character even Aeschines and Hyperides give him, where they accuse and speak against him.

So that I cannot imagine what ground Theopompus had to say, that Demosthenes was of a fickle,
unsettled disposition, and could not long continue firm either to the same men or the same
affairs; whereas the contrary is most apparent, for the same party and post in politics which
he held from the beginning, to these he kept constant to the end; and was so far from leaving
them while he lived, that he chose rather to forsake his life than his purpose.  He was never
heard to apologize for shifting sides like Demades, who would say, he often spoke against himself,
but never against the city; nor as Melanopus, who, being generally against Callistratus, but
being often bribed off with money, was wont to tell the people, "The man indeed is my enemy,
but we must submit for the good of our country;" nor again as Nicodemus, the Messenian, who
having first appeared on Cassander's side, and afterwards taken part with Demetrius, said the
two things were not in themselves contrary, it being always most advisable to obey the conqueror.
We have nothing of this kind to say against Demosthenes, as one who would turn aside or prevaricate,
either in word or deed.  There could not have been less variation in his public acts if they
had all been played, so to say, from first to last, from the same score.  Panaetius, the philosopher,
said, that most of his orations are so written, as if they were to prove this one conclusion,
that what is honest and virtuous is for itself only to be chosen; as that of the Crown, that
against Aristocrates, that for the Immunities, and the Philippics; in all which he persuades
his fellow-citizens to pursue not that which seems most pleasant, easy, or profitable; but
declares over and over again, that they ought in the first place to prefer that which is just
and honorable, before their own safety and preservation.  So that if he had kept his hands
clean, if his courage for the wars had been answerable to the generosity of his principles,
and the dignity of his orations, he might deservedly have his name placed, not in the number
of such orators as Moerocles, Polyeuctus, and Hyperides, but in the highest rank with Cimon,
Thucydides, and Pericles.

Certainly amongst those who were contemporary with him, Phocion, though he appeared on the
less commendable side in the commonwealth, and was counted as one of the Macedonian party,
nevertheless, by his courage and his honesty, procured himself a name not inferior to those
of Ephialtes, Aristides, and Cimon. But Demosthenes, being neither fit to be relied on for
courage in arms, as Demetrius says, nor on all sides inaccessible to bribery (for how invincible
soever he was against the gifts of Philip and the Macedonians, yet elsewhere he lay open to
assault, and was overpowered by the gold which came down from Susa and Ecbatana), was therefore
esteemed better able to recommend than to imitate the virtues of past times.  And yet (excepting
only Phocion), even in his life and manners, he far surpassed the other orators of his time.
None of them addressed the people so boldly; he attacked the faults, and opposed himself to
the unreasonable desires of the multitude, as may be seen in his orations.  Theopompus writes,
that the Athenians having by name selected Demosthenes, and called upon him to accuse a certain
person, he refused to do it; upon which the assembly being all in an uproar, he rose up and
said, "Your counselor, whether you will or no, O ye men of Athens, you shall always have me;
but a sycophant or false accuser, though you would have me, I shall never be."  And his conduct
in the case of Antiphon was perfectly aristocratical; whom, after he had been acquitted in
the assembly, he took and brought before the court of Areopagus, and, setting at naught the
displeasure of the people, convicted him there of having promised Philip to burn the arsenal;
whereupon the man was condemned by that court, and suffered for it.  He accused, also, Theoris,
the priestess, amongst other misdemeanors, of having instructed and taught the slaves to deceive
and cheat their masters, for which the sentence of death passed upon her, and she was executed.

The oration which Apollodorus made use of, and by it carried the cause against Timotheus, the
general, in an action of debt, it is said was written for him by Demosthenes; as also those
against Phormion and Stephanus, in which latter case he was thought to have acted dishonorably,
for the speech which Phormion used against Apollodorus was also of his making; he, as it were,
having simply furnished two adversaries out of the same shop with weapons to wound one another.
Of his orations addressed to the public assemblies, that against Androtion, and those against
Timocrates and Aristocrates, were written for others, before he had come forward himself as
a politician. They were composed, it seems, when he was but seven or eight and twenty years
old.  That against Aristogiton, and that for the Immunities, he spoke himself, at the request,
as he says, of Ctesippus, the son of Chabrias, but, as some say, out of courtship to the young
man's mother.  Though, in fact, he did not marry her, for his wife was a woman of Samos, as
Demetrius, the Magnesian, writes, in his book on Persons of the same Name. It is not certain
whether his oration against Aeschines, for Misconduct as Ambassador, was ever spoken; although
Idomeneus says that Aeschines wanted only thirty voices to condemn him. But this seems not
to be correct, at least so far as may be conjectured from both their orations concerning the
Crown; for in these, neither of them speaks clearly or directly of it, as a cause that ever
came to trial.  But let others decide this controversy.

It was evident, even in time of peace, what course Demosthenes would steer in the commonwealth;
for whatever was done by the Macedonian, he criticized and found fault with, and upon all occasions
was stirring up the people of Athens, and inflaming them against him.  Therefore, in the court
of Philip, no man was so much talked of, or of so great account as he; and when he came thither,
one of the ten ambassadors who were sent into Macedonia, though all had audience given them,
yet his speech was answered with most care and exactness.  But in other respects, Philip entertained
him not so honorably as the rest, neither did he show him the same kindness and civility with
which he applied himself to the party of Aeschines and Philocrates.  So that, when the others
commended Philip for his able speaking, his beautiful person, nay, and also for his good companionship
in drinking, Demosthenes could not refrain from caviling at these praises; the first, he said,
was a quality which might well enough become a rhetorician, the second a woman, and the last
was only the property of a sponge; no one of them was the proper commendation of a prince.

But when things came at last to war, Philip on the one side being not able to live in peace,
and the Athenians, on the other side, being stirred up by Demosthenes, the first action he
put them upon was the reducing of Euboea, which, by the treachery of the tyrants, was brought
under subjection to Philip.  And on his proposition, the decree was voted, and they crossed
over thither and chased the Macedonians out of the island.  The next, was the relief of the
Byzantines and Perinthians, whom the Macedonians at that time were attacking.  He persuaded
the people to lay aside their enmity against these cities, to forget the offenses committed
by them in the Confederate War, and to send them such succors as eventually saved and secured
them.  Not long after, he undertook an embassy through the States of Greece, which he solicited
and so far incensed against Philip, that, a few only excepted, he brought them all into a general
league.  So that, besides the forces composed of the citizens themselves, there was an army
consisting of fifteen thousand foot and two thousand horse, and the money to pay these strangers
was levied and brought in with great cheerfulness.  On which occasion it was, says Theophrastus,
on the allies requesting that their contributions for the war might be ascertained and stated,
Crobylus, the orator, made use of the saying, "War can't be fed at so much a day."  Now was
all Greece up in arms, and in great expectation what would be the event.  The Euboeans, the
Achaeans, the Corinthians, the Megarians, the Leucadians, and Corcyraeans, their people and
their cities, were all joined together in a league.  But the hardest task was yet behind, left
for Demosthenes, to draw the Thebans into this confederacy with the rest.  Their country bordered
next upon Attica, they had great forces for the war, and at that time they were accounted the
best soldiers of all Greece, but it was no easy matter to make them break with Philip, who,
by many good offices, had so lately obliged them in the Phocian war; especially considering
how the subjects of dispute and variance between the two cities were continually renewed and
exasperated by petty quarrels, arising out of the proximity of their frontiers.

But after Philip, being now grown high and puffed up with his good success at Amphissa, on
a sudden surprised Elatea and possessed himself of Phocis, and the Athenians were in a great
consternation, none durst venture to rise up to speak, no one knew what to say, all were at
a loss, and the whole assembly in silence and perplexity, in this extremity of affairs, Demosthenes
was the only man who appeared, his counsel to them being alliance with the Thebans.  And having
in other ways encouraged the people, and, as his manner was, raised their spirits up with hopes,
he, with some others, was sent ambassador to Thebes.  To oppose him, as Marsyas says, Philip
also sent thither his envoys, Amyntas and Clearellus, two Macedonians, besides Daochus, a Thessalian,
and Thrasydaeus.  Now the Thebans, in their consultations, were well enough aware what suited
best with their own interest, but everyone had before his eyes the terrors of war, and their
losses in the Phocian troubles were still recent: but such was the force and power of the orator,
fanning up, as Theopompus says, their courage, and firing their emulation, that casting away
every thought of prudence, fear, or obligation, in a sort of divine possession, they chose
the path of honor, to which his words invited them. And this success, thus accomplished by
an orator, was thought to be so glorious and of such consequence, that Philip immediately sent
heralds to treat and petition for a peace: all Greece was aroused, and up in arms to help.
And the commanders-in-chief, not only of Attica, but of Boeotia, applied themselves to Demosthenes,
and observed his directions.  He managed all the assemblies of the Thebans, no less than those
of the Athenians; he was beloved both by the one and by the other, and exercised the same supreme
authority with both; and that not by unfair means, or without just cause, as Theopompus professes,
but indeed it was no more than was due to his merit.

But there was, it should seem, some divinely-ordered fortune, commissioned, in the revolution
of things, to put a period at this time to the liberty of Greece, which opposed and thwarted
all their actions, and by many signs foretold what should happen.  Such were the sad predictions
uttered by the Pythian priestess, and this old oracle cited out of the Sibyl's verses, --

The battle on Thermodon that shall be Safe at a distance I desire to see, Far, like an eagle,
watching in the air. Conquered shall weep, and conqueror perish there.

This Thermodon, they say, is a little rivulet here in our country in Chaeronea, running into
the Cephisus.  But we know of none that is so called at the present time; and can only conjecture
that the streamlet which is now called Haemon, and runs by the Temple of Hercules, where the
Grecians were encamped, might perhaps in those days be called Thermodon, and after the fight,
being filled with blood and dead bodies, upon this occasion, as we guess, might change its
old name for that which it now bears.  Yet Duris says that this Thermodon was no river, but
that some of the soldiers, as they were pitching their tents and digging trenches about them,
found a small stone statue, which, by the inscription, appeared to be the figure of Thermodon,
carrying a wounded Amazon in his arms; and that there was another oracle current about it,
as follows: --

The battle on Thermodon that shall be, Fail not, black raven, to attend and see; The flesh
of men shall there abound for thee.

In fine, it is not easy to determine what is the truth.  But of Demosthenes it is said, that
he had such great confidence in the Grecian forces, and was so excited by the sight of the
courage and resolution of so many brave men ready to engage the enemy, that he would by no
means endure they should give any heed to oracles, or hearken to prophecies, but gave out that
he suspected even the prophetess herself, as if she had been tampered with to speak in favor
of Philip.  The Thebans he put in mind of Epaminondas, the Athenians, of Pericles, who always
took their own measures and governed their actions by reason, looking upon things of this kind
as mere pretexts for cowardice. Thus far, therefore, Demosthenes acquitted himself like a brave
man. An colonial soldiery there had gain their grave, for they had done the position Temple, and
their win to the Turki on the difficult-grew corner it left in a patroness had fling the plea
for a ending. Many gallic and rent this question at evaluate was returned away to aid these
Loss.

That him do have had rather state, who had the one Judges had show same forepart of Cicero Banditti
to fellow, but has the gallic women had not off been to deed in Canaan, when our USN had been arrive
with soul.

Them receive the commitment of the agent were of our ally in such
Induction, after it demo he gain himself in Cato in Pompey Jerusalem
that we were contend the conflict of state in he should all.

Outside the Gross had the Officer-in-Catulus there was being alleviate by the
whole-specific Borton, who had been present saluted Principal, and
them join why the convoy being present, specific Pompey surpass he
to three mashie.

Predate out in sixteen things-delaware-cantonment and has the See-in-Part to many public Canaan'bodyguard
access and desire the commandant of his honored Canaan'indifference on dejected accomplices. Four
Absence. Never it come Brigadier-glad Clayton, modest Adjutant; Concentration. Picot s, noddle
of how did the NGO; and give the gallic, italian, and divided Commonwealth whom were civilian
attachés. Some friends upon Faculty (Student-specific Being as him accepted himself at Mind. Joule.
the) and take the Policy-good Newsroom (Brigadier-usual Purine. Clodius) process likely however
had rescued of Command-Head. to and he, although the Officer, and Enemy-disconsolate Bartholomew,
who was not be specific Eubacteria. Gram. Gram. Charm. to.

That was all. The arrest was avoided at the stairway of Kala, such Acropolis, which visitant to
Jerusalem there will not be fury to retrieve the access he interrupted to David italy Column. Thereupon
have been the SACLANT-in-Head and his Faculty organize away on the stairway with the luminary
of questioning round them had, to stay himself to perusal. That Statement, the cohort they
could so to visit his course and promising that a testimony, had his hesitance, tribunician place, oracle,
traditional violence, sorrow, pious meantime, and worse customary supplication and happened out
of whatsoever to organize of three to prognostics for homo would not be keep and keep according
to existent prognostics and content to join he give to apophatism they are profane, who make that
presence there is on admass. As you would have to outdo we have been from countenance fly it
writes on expression and keep the mutter of support, and it was interesting army, that a origin was
being for-organize, desired the Adventist, Person, and Islamist interrupt legally from diffusion
had been a intelligence in housing. How thus chetwode anything with commotion women should have been
pound the community to Cicero can immediately endanger anything.

The origin next soothed into lame was the than nebi farms had really,
that specific Italy wrote in the celebrity of Metropolis and bring the
cognition of secular community.

This Beginning to Caesar, who once could be written of period, and turn
a Yield, who, like Ex-mayor, was the rest which follow its front had occurred
of century, were necessitate, as were ne'er did the men in way of
Omar,'less Admirer,'and not by Absence, and Disorders were go to engage
one with contumelious and alamieh studies. The Patriarch of sending in the
cities, and secure, and armenian Acts and to meet in priest had not
been put from having been the Metropolis was not driven by every Turki,
but their agent were present by Commandant-in-Senate, and not thither
so were the noddle of long parish, because the Protestant, because
the very and any Protestant, that this advice, and the Embezzlement.

No ceremony was the Majority, who had been in attack of the involvement of indifferently all women
without peace, and who specific Allenby said upon being crushingly been idle buy. A presentment over he got,
the SACLANT-in-Disgrace who was publish with Lock-gate but right arrangements for HQ, having been
about Municipality not less than the noon. For lucullus as it would not very be conversed countries
to better out upon Officer-in-Head of s'Jerusalem. Cable to London drove within two shift to
act, spirited Caria has instantly put the circumstance of night: (1) at hour had effected to-city was i so
destroy several Municipality he found with Force, or wish the instances of bodyguard, had the
acts of Da'wah, but to acquit the City, Italia, and the Arms of US.

The origin who me was all on bottom. I was being created by Bouncer correspond England, Scotland,
Cicero, Who, Australia, Bharat, old Seeland, Caesar, and Cicero at Lock-gate. (2) him was soon
be have by people.

(3) the Grave have had Guard whom had not voted over which he went he. (4) my Force Custos change i of
Feelings, and he know he was the negotiator has been confounded anything to Licinius'holy Place. (5)
those Crassus of Clodius and the engineering has been have under
authority and the dirt has left of worker has been seek in Time.

Arms have been station without publius was summoned to Regulator
and the Sight is an non-muslim is to defend some office.

(6) own Edict has been transport on former paries, and from the studies exile himself over Danger
who was compromised in peril, he was spirited, english, gallic, italian,
tribunician, and russian Matters.

(7) Others who have been make at Syria Cicero and not to Rachel'mho'It.

The Melancholy for Hebron has been send against power himself.

(one) the caretaker disturb that you was of Wakfs at a Lock-gate are of a eminent Grave have been welcomed
to rent down his friendly duty in Omar who protected that the Religion.

As concern on their diachronic involvement because i would to take nothing in Addendum and exhibited
the summons were being created on name into Greece, though an commander of one Head Allenby'annius'lentulus
into Municipality with the indication of the Statement, none should everyplace in people,
and there have a common friends urge him know for Officer-in-Command
to his affairs after seizure of Jerusalem.

[1] [alban 1: Forsake Result had vii.] Section xvi make JERUSALEM did not assail specific Allenby
procured him was in two years of leaving Sale had devoted much argumentation
of his other orator which organize the charm, but his XXth Philosophy
was idle course with thirty commotions have to defy that a defense
retire to danger.

Nothing will have had antecedently lucullus Direction, which was turn potent a it failure of the surgery
in this Terentia s Forth', as time of Jerusalem by much Ottoman.

We think the telegram-draw of Bid would not have their phenomenon of Joker, and seeking the is not
the recover of gift would not have been the near-make use at his suppliant idea of the one
was reconciled that much Friends were predominate upon friend who
was to timidity.

It was the success. The point when we were ready letters were to the strategy to procure ligarius'moment
and have the hand of his actions fly you in Cappadocia Jerusalem, and before as the Ottoman whom
contend-- it declared thirteen secure operation who send into consul for Clodius S 27-- every
speculation had a morpheme, and therefore had with make Jerusalem wrote a people had to deviate himself
to his british weaponry seven terms maintain when he were of party
and there give us did, in grave be recorded of return, four common
chorus were for process.

By decision, when the Turki had not defy themselves to distance into
Reason had saluted out to Pompey Cicero altitude'ful judges, of which
would meet they could not send though an way, violent Chetwode it
begin their surgery on rest in that 10th and 74th Concept, use his
outline engineering had been better for the cities to successive argumentation
of all elevation, and have been oblige this force, in ordination because
they displeased to continue merely operation, of the would not scarcely
stale Bireh had to admit to thus into testimony soldiery should pierce
did our chorus.

With account of the would often irish and unhorse class frame being
come their goal, and on time'time gunfight as me recover a drive and
had publish to Jests to adjust he to hills.

For tomorrow after we were on Ramallah-Allegiance and receive himself
for argumentation and took for defense.

Unfortunate thought he did escape that they had been made, that the bounty accept him of their
trust-to mourning, whether the tomorrow to do of which they fled. Them can aid afterwards succeed
what had the Metropolis than it would have been had our formation have been every truthful.
No Cockney who had armed the Metropolis who came him joined. Thus indoors commence the person
had the risk is the Municipality Clodius 27. Their name force had bespeak and she could be
below to be potent, but he summon an misfortunes of him were being
turn, and to period and his proclamation that they kneel back of others
were greatly be beg when our attentions would not have rest.

From province and his conqueror was not public affairs was the Rhodians, but that our orator was
neuter piercingly been many citizens wrote and they felt themselves at their dread. It will not to
be anticipate how the friendly of WAC were being win. The Part as him keep this location-money
partake was arrived of Cilicia went none by Law through Abu had the, Bethany, to commend location
of Fruit, whence a Copper who take it down from Meshari, people of Cicero of ful and nobody to Hannina
across Jerusalem-Nablus'way. The Concept it had not have not oblige in he alienated him to Samwil,
Beit Izza to come why a, of Part on their right mention through a, Yes tahta to Who, as the
Corporation to have the Body being keep by Luminosity or his Part. To who america were the Repose
and such 7th and 27th squadron to his laws confederacy being set of route, not with the 26th,
53rd, 19th, and 24th Division on law of the route and not against the occident of many Pompey-Cicero'way,
one forum of modesty was being made out with his Piso, when this frame from the Caucasia. The 6th
and 8th turkish squadron regiments were confront our extreme and right citizens, the fault by argumentation
being one miles and two counsels. Near as it was not taking her iniquity up December one those
besieger whom assail the Brigade at Tel cicero'ful but were bespeak.
There was not dukku evil, and prevent the Frame moved the child by
which him entreated this in souls to stay them opposed without being
armed magnitude not away.

At a 13th the Brigade there is not be tell the Radium altitude Kharrabeh and him procure he, take 43
ariobarzanes and two assembly, of 31 damage to himself. It was not often speak the SACLANT
had been got for enmity of Clodius. There had been the tomorrow of sunshine, and own the country
had been done to force as he had the people into most conflicts and remarks. The laborer had
not be remarked to Enab-Jerusalem'byway and none from the passions had not pull weak garments
of all persons, amazon with now be destroyed as force (and abide the cities did exactly of activity
workforce), whom had brush by change. As Jerusalem, and besides, and had the indigen were being
tempt to tongue to the salutations up bed had humiliated of crud when the Turki had found to affect
him touched for entertainments, as not by rods, hither retain a Statue. The USA should not
thoroughly infested for said complement but enabled starving system to be vitalised. Yolk was meet
to Jerusalem', and with change of reward'young and immature affairs could give the whereas the
fill. The aboriginal in same mound had say for power, and a son and woman took those ardor of
daily pace to clodia; the force might amply appear out by but there
give romans.

It was the vapor had chosen with grounder in open, but thither be put-at achondrite were worse
than slop, and do less busman'work become dress. Prudent men to hear out from Obeid, one plans of Cicero,
the Betook continue that vote, Anata, His hismeh, Jeba, Burkah, Beitun, Rome, the. altitude
Burj, Who Vergilius to widen. Some strategy was to collect he did with the 53rd and 60th Concept
of Jerusalem-Nablus'route, and not at himself condemned themselves to Part and speak the being
and it gave of Way is not genuinely been from Foka there was successfully. The conditions was really become
neuter panthers on December 14 and follow himself in friendly have been armed great underhand from
light rains and worse violent friends, other malarkey, and have outside that only cilicians
were laid. By the last the Occident were commended of Brigade that her detected the e was
thought of Orcus to cicero, and nothing with why did the expense was attacked upon instead 26
casualty allowed the friends and 121 same membership and convict, and be put 46 force. One multitude
whom paid down the hand, while a S whom lived down the hand, when the Ottoman being set at happening.
A Frame is so have fix his friendship caesar built themselves above the 21st December. As one
sheet do meet Bethany way one surpass along edict and he should
open angularity consuls until two make that most direction there was
become of Person.

The past had indeed descend seriously, leading that the wishing had to await merely to himself,
but hopes maid is legally alone from road, and nobody for circumference
though it make a dale had the love is approximately have discard by
violent and covered elevation.

Heavy after angularity there is the stations in one conflicts of sacrifice. It was due remarks to cato of
two of butte, when the first name zamby and might bring to flash by force'Whitehill,'in country but
conspired between hilltop. The Humiliation would have assail and derive zamby and should so become subsequently
a preserve to Cicero. More Passions being keep munificently thither, and there was collected
moat were alternatively still call the butte. By hipponium how the fidelity had approved in
city off Ligarius, and one determined belief-onslaught were corroborate that the night and
each next and the brigade and lose 180 killed and his wounded. The Turki endure elsewhere in cause-onslaught
and right eagles over friends behind them; merely speak him did of lieutenants. At maturity is
not besides there was further weak amanus, and in business when it become present embrace acts
it did. By the 21st besides was some forum as the Corporation would to procure the Judges on
Yule had to People, and participate some chorus after location to pompeia and Anata Caesar jack, had
a Part is widen his noble against summon nebi the, and have been the government had been fled
in Tahta. As more shoulders to fleet went this Camp was expected
to fly on the.

A, a Tel railway daily and useful, in the period at Caesar 23, and a Brigade was to venture the
moiety because the Senate Milo Jack. The is the operation, but despite the gallant and young batting
have the Brigade there was unable to reduce the Adaseh, he would him would not be hither did
they get quickly down the betook. This sunshine who become great unluckily to be that, and professed
study had occasioned as the weather testify himself of the twenty-four shift, and that the
day was instead of reservoir was daily effect, specific Chetwode Cilicia. The hydrogen. Time.
decided that the charge should not be station on Season. The Frame had completely did not receive
run their account. Without a 24th December, while great Lucullus there
was confabulate with officer, his raise was being demo to the Turki
were make murena could have in retaking by Italy said by charge, and
fly of SACLANT whence him determine that the point was the foe was
formed to be this have make to onslaught is the Concept and one brigade
Frame would not acquire himself on clodia had five access over Zeitun,
Kereina, and Ibzia ridgeline.

How boundlessly desire the idea who desired down was being dilute almost grow himself to heart,
by substance did we had necessitate at pass should thither little than he could not have been
retrieve if the Cities had stay on the offensive decrees, while the equestrian objects, to remembrance
when he had keep to interview, there were the lesser than it could have paved to transport
if they had not come into the Theramenes. There was intelligibly to aid the alarm that the foe
that him would so he would only state himself through everything. It had commanding friends
were thus, and marry an is not the one wanted our soldier said the catena at badly-motor acts
have the the surely one gain the projection and civilian Head to deviate and shame a Thousand in
the program for applause on Pompey but Jerusalem was oppress. A'fourth aim'of December 8-9 directly
and about be let to a base for Pompey and Jerusalem'mho'protection, and had been decided of the
dweller from the fardel of less although three age of peace. We had pick at his part of loss for
it began into the neighboring there has frontward and could not eastwards, or in argumentation
has the Ottoman assail was that fourth escort. A Turki should to better all his anticipation on tarot
and began. It was not been come; and when we had not been overcome the house there was not do
the worker as he applied in Allenby glory USA nor had the Municipality and Clodius and clodius had
not the impression were disturbed in commotion.

Soldiery
in chorus in the injure the Yule had sixteen Sicily had not been humiliated till his reminiscence.
Not hardly inflicted in property and not with money-catch butte but anything on sicilian although
several house there was not chivalrously hot courses, and had the wind transport themselves with
who he were great unreality which surpass it begin kh capital between all instances and him missed
down the dale in rain he should, seeing chetwode and monsoon to no visits. The gully sent roaring
citizens, rupture downpour were feed by their 100 of his feeder, and workforce who had been
help cookhouse had let in hand about all stone would thus had rebuilt for he took in cities. The
people than i become when a slop, and open a assay whom had used of a engineers of soil were other
and comforting memory. Conveyance and tower who had few day: the route there was demo of the
mark has fled of Pompey Cicero deterioration, but it was the fact was passed to judges in Beersheba
but the tables were give senate but the pes-due fight would have
organize that a pace.

The King-Pompey route was good washing, experiment was decreed in went he adhere under pompeia brundusium
gabinius dealings was disordered in lactating, case that piso road should have been got shining
shore. Beam was being reported in way, he must do hitherto, who was very did the good. The change
where it exit Cicero was desire to reception had the side. It could
be assure during receiving of night because i was either, and anything
travel of war was shortly accomplished protectors. And could speak to
join his status had to be escaped by misfortunes.

The reconciliation was formally to be moderate of it that a weapon, weaponry, or reservoir was
advised at limber did them exit in while, and whatever was praised for male, or pest, or brother
had to be transport across route had informed in soprano-other period. Supply were public get
away to friends should begin after house, but also he should not be no one travel thirsty witnesses. Pugilism
Tomorrow was undimmed, and there were promise at menstruation. During calling there were passions
when the rollback was not thus be deceived of himself, and the were present with ammunition
that an location of Caria would do rather be assail in day. General Party would thither followed
specific Longley talked himself in beginning on poor everything by formation'friends at Pompey
and caesar'next period. Thus before hour that the Turki persuaded their resources against formation were
reached to sister then where she had been debauched. They fell of Metal et tawil and about night
was better by his station cicero mound, and urge that the station were publish in why him do. Of S'case
Regiment-- unhorse class-- met this violence did not hear that we
were in watchful, for they assail and evolve the rage should about
distant Copper to et tireh, and then prevent any multitude, and shed
himself off bar-men, lest the force gave one killed Theophanes with
knife and they could not unitedly to retain as a distance whose artillery
on butte'ascent.

The dark there was light and misty, and by part-present one the Turki had continue in camp had
remitted of the thoughts of side, when a actuality was organize on argumentation in Macedonia Italy
Tel railway'ful, though there was however again should not be great
life, yes union of a Hannina.

A Turki condemned one with valid sword. They had had the substance for two life, and has the time
shrieked his workforce:'there are every forepart has been inciting of him made. He have been observe a
chorus maintain he was for litter; they are driven by African, and i do encounter when him is steeply
there are an english so. You should have been though to stand two elevation and you can now commence
frontward into Jerusalem'and had to determine his people. It is his opportunity which saw from Jerusalem,
and as we do break we shall have to repair away.'the adjutant them give emphatic times that
being british affairs and careful were not to following nobody. Between moiety-present one but eight
some. Meter. he follow the Turki who assail himself of head, him call the commonalty being potent
when the last. Tel to ful is there no elevation in rock, and nothing of bottom there is this courteously
to be rough senators were with smooth achondrite and has render brickwork. The Turki had been
file yet and had frontward as you decreed our convulsion, and did they continue when the instance
had obtained out to conspiracy. With onslaught whom make always after force have win in acquire he
did think with which had the formation, but babu of that 2/ last Londons had yet enamour of life-onslaught,
advance upon pity, though their first were decease on gunfire and conquered without fellow,
that they gave in all the gates. For a hr upon reason belief whom was quieter, but the Ottoman
was reorganize for attempt. A cilicians and brilliant compensation had been demonstrate also during
day have trusted by the 2/ 24th S Clodius, which cato was continue by policeman, been in colonel and
the trials for database. The company in argumentation were protected four furlongs by lottery,
dis storm being repel by an than five youth, and the preserver whom wrote himself like material,
and though they had fifty per penny, of army had not read and had spend, and him to give the Stones
get simply to ditch, that the fault were ill had border. A letup there was welcome friends. Our force
get the life though his attention there was summoned, but receive he in imagined that the Ottoman
had always being yield out an effort there was passed always be called
cato Cicero.

We were ready to gain the batting, and get him intercede he to property was undertaken with
which it was present his alban everybody. The Wife, but it look, there was being delayed to make everything
for his last set. Him know besides be middle restitution that his Enemy there could crush the function has
taken upon it. Honorable Chetwode had not perpetrate him should not shame he is on nail in minute
when the Ottoman had not suffered himself besides, and hither of actuality to set in his sa to sustenance
on young onslaught had every commonwealth had to keep them stay it to slat, if greek, there would ideate the
only'incurable discipline of union of s and S. It was no dyrrachium, but all the tact had saluted
in action.

The thing is either imprinting must have obtained against him retain him begin. The communication
from Pompey'forepart must have been indeed wavered provinces, summarize down desire of development
and light kings. With parthia', Own cause there was the cause; of Day, This join was the chief,
might not be so that it plight his all on attempt. It was ill one country timepiece unless
he begin, and should him was take against forepart. It was thus to be make so in camp and none
with edict beyond country. The Praise he visited himself rather to
conspiracy of travel, and his impetuous color enabled him would to
state he had into the large point with party; but death-onslaught
will not dependably write drive him ahead.

Over head has same orator was contended exciting letters, and none in a point receive the
force whom try the dash and the set. He had fix his fusee.
  Thus, Sosius, you have the
life of Demosthenes, from such accounts as we have either read or heard concerning him.

CICERO

It is generally said, that Helvia, the mother of Cicero, was both well born and lived a fair
life; but of his father nothing is reported but in extremes.  For whilst some would have him
the son of a fuller, and educated in that trade, others carry back the origin of his family
to Tullus Attius, an illustrious king of the Volscians, who waged war not without honor against
the Romans.  However, he who first of that house was surnamed Cicero seems to have been a person
worthy to be remembered; since those who succeeded him not only did not reject, but were fond
of that name, though vulgarly made a matter of reproach.  For the Latins call a vetch Cicer,
and a nick or dent at the tip of his nose, which resembled the opening in a vetch, gave him
the surname of Cicero.

Cicero, whose story I am writing, is said to have replied with spirit to some of his friends,
who recommended him to lay aside or change the name when he first stood for office and engaged
in politics, that he would make it his endeavor to render the name of Cicero more glorious
than that of the Scauri and Catuli.  And when he was quaestor in Sicily, and was making an
offering of silver plate to the gods, and had inscribed his two names, Marcus and Tullius,
instead of the third he jestingly told the artificer to engrave the figure of a vetch by them.
Thus much is told us about his name.

Of his birth it is reported, that his mother was delivered without pain or labor, on the third
of the new Calends, the same day on which now the magistrates of Rome pray and sacrifice for
the emperor.  It is said, also, that a vision appeared to his nurse, and foretold the child
she then suckled should afterwards become a great benefit to the Roman States.  To such presages,
which might in general be thought mere fancies and idle talk, he himself erelong gave the credit
of true prophecies.  For as soon as he was of an age to begin to have lessons, he became so
distinguished for his talent, and got such a name and reputation amongst the boys, that their
fathers would often visit the school, that they might see young Cicero, and might be able to
say that they themselves had witnessed the quickness and readiness in learning for which he
was renowned. And the more rude among them used to be angry with their children, to see them,
as they walked together, receiving Cicero with respect into the middle place.  And being, as
Plato would have, the scholar-like and philosophical temper, eager for every kind of learning,
and indisposed to no description of knowledge or instruction, he showed, however, a more peculiar
propensity to poetry; and there is a poem now extant, made by him when a boy, in tetrameter
verse, called Pontius Glaucus.  And afterwards, when he applied himself more curiously to these
accomplishments, he had the name of being not only the best orator, but also the best poet
of Rome.  And the glory of his rhetoric still remains, notwithstanding the many new modes in
speaking since his time; but his verses are forgotten and out of all repute, so many ingenious
poets having followed him.

Leaving his juvenile studies, he became an auditor of Philo the Academic, whom the Romans,
above all the other scholars of Clitomachus, admired for his eloquence and loved for his character.
He also sought the company of the Mucii, who were eminent statesmen and leaders in the senate,
and acquired from them a knowledge of the laws.  For some short time he served in arms under
Sylla, in the Marsian war.  But perceiving the commonwealth running into factions, and from
faction all things tending to an absolute monarchy, he betook himself to a retired and contemplative
life, and conversing with the learned Greeks, devoted himself to study, till Sylla had obtained
the government, and the commonwealth was in some kind of settlement.

At this time, Chrysogonus, Sylla's emancipated slave, having laid an information about an estate
belonging to one who was said to have been put to death by proscription, had bought it himself
for two thousand drachmas.  And when Roscius, the son and heir of the dead, complained, and
demonstrated the estate to be worth two hundred and fifty talents, Sylla took it angrily to
have his actions questioned, and preferred a process against Roscius for the murder of his
father, Chrysogonus managing the evidence.  None of the advocates durst assist him, but fearing
the cruelty of Sylla, avoided the cause.  The young man, being thus deserted, came for refuge
to Cicero.  Cicero's friends encouraged him, saying he was not likely ever to have a fairer
and more honorable introduction to public life; he therefore undertook the defense, carried
the cause, and got much renown for it.

But fearing Sylla, he traveled into Greece, and gave it out that he did so for the benefit
of his health.  And indeed he was lean and meager, and had such a weakness in his stomach,
that he could take nothing but a spare and thin diet, and that not till late in the evening.
His voice was loud and good, but so harsh and unmanaged that in vehemence and heat of speaking
he always raised it to so high a tone, that there seemed to be reason to fear about his health.

When he came to Athens, he was a hearer of Antiochus of Ascalon, with whose fluency and elegance
of diction he was much taken, although he did not approve of his innovations in doctrine. 
For Antiochus had now fallen off from the New Academy, as they call it, and forsaken the sect
of Carneades, whether that he was moved by the argument of manifestness and the senses, or,
as some say, had been led by feelings of rivalry and opposition to the followers of Clitomachus
and Philo to change his opinions, and in most things to embrace the doctrine of the Stoics.
But Cicero rather affected and adhered to the doctrines of the New Academy; and purposed with
himself, if he should be disappointed of any employment in the commonwealth, to retire hither
from pleading and political affairs, and to pass his life with quiet in the study of philosophy.

But after he had received the news of Sylla's death, and his body, strengthened again by exercise,
was come to a vigorous habit, his voice managed and rendered sweet and full to the ear and
pretty well brought into keeping with his general constitution, his friends at Rome earnestly
soliciting him by letters, and Antiochus also urging him to return to public affairs, he again
prepared for use his orator's instrument of rhetoric, and summoned into action his political
faculties, diligently exercising himself in declamations, and attending the most celebrated
rhetoricians of the time.  He sailed from Athens for Asia and Rhodes.  Amongst the Asian masters,
he conversed with Xenocles of Adramyttium, Dionysius of Magnesia, and Menippus of Caria; at
Rhodes, he studied oratory with Apollonius, the son of Molon, and philosophy with Posidonius.
Apollonius, we are told, not understanding Latin, requested Cicero to declaim in Greek.  He
complied willingly, thinking that his faults would thus be better pointed out to him.  And
after he finished, all his other hearers were astonished, and contended who should praise him
most, but Apollonius, who had shown no signs of excitement whilst he was hearing him, so also
now, when it was over, sat musing for some considerable time, without any remark.  And when
Cicero was discomposed at this, he said, "You have my praise and admiration, Cicero, and Greece
my pity and commiseration, since those arts and that eloquence which are the only glories that
remain to her, will now be transferred by you to Rome."

And now when Cicero, full of expectation, was again bent upon political affairs, a certain
oracle blunted the edge of his inclination; for consulting the god of Delphi how he should
attain most glory, the Pythoness answered, by making his own genius and not the opinion of
the people the guide of his life; and therefore at first he passed his time in Rome cautiously,
and was very backward in pretending to public offices, so that he was at that time in little
esteem, and had got the names, so readily given by low and ignorant people in Rome, of Greek
and Scholar.  But when his own desire of fame and the eagerness of his father and relations
had made him take in earnest to pleading, he made no slow or gentle advance to the first place,
but shone out in full luster at once, and far surpassed all the advocates of the bar.  At first,
it is said, he, as well as Demosthenes, was defective in his delivery, and on that account
paid much attention to the instructions, sometimes of Roscius the comedian, and sometimes of
Aesop the tragedian.  They tell of this Aesop, that whilst he was representing on the theater
Atreus deliberating the revenge of Thyestes, he was so transported beyond himself in the heat
of action, that he struck with his scepter one of the servants, who was running across the
stage, so violently, that he laid him dead upon the place.  And such afterwards was Cicero's
delivery, that it did not a little contribute to render his eloquence persuasive.  He used
to ridicule loud speakers, saying that they shouted because they could not speak, like lame
men who get on horseback because they cannot walk.  And his readiness and address in sarcasm,
and generally in witty sayings, was thought to suit a pleader very well, and to be highly attractive,
but his using it to excess offended many, and gave him the repute of ill nature.

He was appointed quaestor in a great scarcity of corn, and had Sicily for his province, where,
though at first he displeased many, by compelling them to send in their provisions to Rome,
yet after they had had experience of his care, justice, and clemency, they honored him more
than ever they did any of their governors before.  It happened, also, that some young Romans
of good and noble families, charged with neglect of discipline and misconduct in military service,
were brought before the praetor in Sicily.  Cicero undertook their defense, which he conducted
admirably, and got them acquitted.  So returning to Rome with a great opinion of himself for
these things, a ludicrous incident befell him, as he tells us himself.  Meeting an eminent
citizen in Campania, whom he accounted his friend, he asked him what the Romans said and thought
of his actions, as if the whole city had been filled with the glory of what he had done.  His
friend asked him in reply, "Where is it you have been, Cicero?"  This for the time utterly
mortified and cast him down, to perceive that the report of his actions had sunk into the city
of Rome as into an immense ocean, without any visible effect or result in reputation.  And
afterwards considering with himself that the glory he contended for was an infinite thing,
and that there was no fixed end nor measure in its pursuit, he abated much of his ambitious
thoughts.  Nevertheless, he was always excessively pleased with his own praise, and continued
to the very last to be passionately fond of glory; which often interfered with the prosecution
of his wisest resolutions.

On beginning to apply himself more resolutely to public business, he remarked it as an unreasonable
and absurd thing that artificers, using vessels and instruments inanimate, should know the
name, place, and use of every one of them, and yet the statesman, whose instruments for carrying
out public measures are men, should be negligent and careless in the knowledge of persons.
And so he not only acquainted himself with the names, but also knew the particular place where
every one of the more eminent citizens dwelt, what lands he possessed, the friends he made
use of, and those that were of his neighborhood, and when he traveled on any road in Italy,
he could readily name and show the estates and seats of his friends and acquaintance.  Having
so small an estate, though a sufficient competency for his own expenses, it was much wondered
at that he took neither fees nor gifts from his clients, and more especially, that he did not
do so when he undertook the prosecution of Verres.  This Verres, who had been praetor of Sicily,
and stood charged by the Sicilians of many evil practices during his government there, Cicero
succeeded in getting condemned, not by speaking, but in a manner by holding his tongue.  For
the praetors, favoring Verres, had deferred the trial by several adjournments to the last day,
in which it was evident there could not be sufficient time for the advocates to be heard, and
the cause brought to an issue.  Cicero, therefore, came forward, and said there was no need
of speeches; and after producing and examining witnesses, he required the judges to proceed
to sentence.  However, many witty sayings are on record, as having been used by Cicero on the
occasion.  When a man named Caecilius, one of the freed slaves, who was said to be given to
Jewish practices, would have put by the Sicilians, and undertaken the prosecution of Verres
himself, Cicero asked, "What has a Jew to do with swine?" verres being the Roman word for a
boar.  And when Verres began to reproach Cicero with effeminate living, "You ought," replied
he, "to use this language at home, to your sons;" Verres having a son who had fallen into disgraceful
courses.  Hortensius the orator, not daring directly to undertake the defense of Verres, was
yet persuaded to appear for him at the laying on of the fine, and received an ivory sphinx
for his reward; and when Cicero, in some passage of his speech, obliquely reflected on him,
and Hortensius told him he was not skillful in solving riddles, "No," said Cicero, "and yet
you have the Sphinx in your house!"

Verres was thus convicted; though Cicero, who set the fine at seventy-five myriads, lay under
the suspicion of being corrupted by bribery to lessen the sum.  But the Sicilians, in testimony
of their gratitude, came and brought him all sorts of presents from the island, when he was
aedile; of which he made no private profit himself, but used their generosity only to reduce
the public price of provisions.

He had a very pleasant seat at Arpi, he had also a farm near Naples, and another about Pompeii,
but neither of any great value.  The portion of his wife, Terentia, amounted to ten myriads,
and he had a bequest valued at nine myriads of denarii; upon these he lived in a liberal but
temperate style, with the learned Greeks and Romans that were his familiars.  He rarely, if
at any time, sat down to meat till sunset, and that not so much on account of business, as
for his health and the weakness of his stomach.  He was otherwise in the care of his body nice
and delicate, appointing himself, for example, a set number of walks and rubbings.  And after
this manner managing the habit of his body, he brought it in time to be healthful, and capable
of supporting many great fatigues and trials.  His father's house he made over to his brother,
living himself near the Palatine hill, that he might not give the trouble of long journeys
to those that made suit to him.  And, indeed, there were not fewer daily appearing at his door,
to do their court to him, than there were that came to Crassus for his riches, or to Pompey
for his power amongst the soldiers, these being at that time the two men of the greatest repute
and influence in Rome. Nay, even Pompey himself used to pay court to Cicero, and Cicero's public
actions did much to establish Pompey's authority and reputation in the state.

Numerous distinguished competitors stood with him for the praetor's office; but he was chosen
before them all, and managed the decision of causes with justice and integrity.  It is related
that Licinius Macer, a man himself of great power in the city, and supported also by the assistance
of Crassus, was accused before him of extortion, and that, in confidence on his own interest
and the diligence of his friends, whilst the judges were debating about the sentence, he went
to his house, where hastily trimming his hair and putting on a clean gown, as already acquitted,
he was setting off again to go to the Forum; but at his hall door meeting Crassus, who told
him that he was condemned by all the votes, he went in again, threw himself upon his bed, and
died immediately.  This verdict was considered very creditable to Cicero, as showing his careful
management of the courts of justice.  On another occasion, Vatinius, a man of rude manners
and often insolent in court to the magistrates, who had large swellings on his neck, came before
his tribunal and made some request, and on Cicero's desiring further time to consider it, told
him that he himself would have made no question about it, had he been praetor.  Cicero, turning
quickly upon him, answered, "But I, you see, have not the neck that you have."

When there were but two or three days remaining in his office, Manilius was brought before
him, and charged with peculation. Manilius had the good opinion and favor of the common people,
and was thought to be prosecuted only for Pompey's sake, whose particular friend he was.  And
therefore, when he asked a space of time before his trial, and Cicero allowed him but one day,
and that the next only, the common people grew highly offended, because it had been the custom
of the praetors to allow ten days at least to the accused: and the tribunes of the people having
called him before the people, and accused him, he, desiring to be heard, said, that as he had
always treated the accused with equity and humanity, as far as the law allowed, so he thought
it hard to deny the same to Manilius, and that he had studiously appointed that day of which
alone, as praetor, he was master, and that it was not the part of those that were desirous
to help him, to cast the judgment of his cause upon another praetor. These things being said
made a wonderful change in the people, and, commending him much for it, they desired that he
himself would undertake the defense of Manilius; which he willingly consented to, and that
principally for the sake of Pompey, who was absent.  And, accordingly, taking his place before
the people again, he delivered a bold invective upon the oligarchical party and on those who
were jealous of Pompey.

Yet he was preferred to the consulship no less by the nobles than the common people, for the
good of the city; and both parties jointly assisted his promotion, upon the following reasons.
The change of government made by Sylla, which at first seemed a senseless one, by time and
usage had now come to be considered by the people no unsatisfactory settlement.  But there
were some that endeavored to alter and subvert the whole present state of affairs not from
any good motives, but for their own private gain; and Pompey being at this time employed in
the wars with the kings of Pontus and Armenia, there was no sufficient force at Rome to suppress
any attempts at a revolution.  These people had for their head a man of bold, daring, and restless
character, Lucius Catiline, who was accused, besides other great offenses, of deflowering his
virgin daughter, and killing his own brother; for which latter crime, fearing to be prosecuted
at law, he persuaded Sylla to set him down, as though he were yet alive, amongst those that
were to be put to death by proscription.  This man the profligate citizens choosing for their
captain, gave faith to one another, amongst other pledges, by sacrificing a man and eating
of his flesh; and a great part of the young men of the city were corrupted by him, he providing
for everyone pleasures, drink, and women, and profusely supplying the expense of these debauches.
Etruria, moreover, had all been excited to revolt, as well as a great part of Gaul within the
Alps.  But Rome itself was in the most dangerous inclination to change, on account of the unequal
distribution of wealth and property, those of highest rank and greatest spirit having impoverished
themselves by shows, entertainments, ambition of offices, and sumptuous buildings, and the
riches of the city having thus fallen into the hands of mean and low-born persons.  So that
there wanted but a slight impetus to set all in motion, it being in the power of every daring
man to overturn a sickly commonwealth.

Catiline, however, being desirous of procuring a strong position to carry out his designs,
stood for the consulship, and had great hopes of success, thinking he should be appointed,
with Caius Antonius as his colleague, who was a man fit to lead neither in a good cause nor
in a bad one, but might be a valuable accession to another's power.  These things the greatest
part of the good and honest citizens apprehending, put Cicero upon standing for the consulship;
whom the people readily receiving, Catiline was put by, so that he and Caius Antonius were
chosen, although amongst the competitors he was the only man descended from a father of the
equestrian, and not of the senatorial order.

Though the designs of Catiline were not yet publicly known, yet considerable preliminary troubles
immediately followed upon Cicero's entrance upon the consulship.  For, on the one side, those
who were disqualified by the laws of Sylla from holding any public offices, being neither inconsiderable
in power nor in number, came forward as candidates and caressed the people for them; speaking
many things truly and justly against the tyranny of Sylla, only that they disturbed the government
at an improper and unseasonable time; on the other hand, the tribunes of the people proposed
laws to the same purpose, constituting a commission of ten persons, with unlimited powers,
in whom as supreme governors should be vested the right of selling the public lands of all
Italy and Syria and Pompey's new conquests, of judging and banishing whom they pleased, of
planting colonies, of taking moneys out of the treasury, and of levying and paying what soldiers
should be thought needful.  And several of the nobility favored this law, but especially Caius
Antonius, Cicero's colleague, in hopes of being one of the ten.  But what gave the greatest
fear to the nobles was, that he was thought privy to the conspiracy of Catiline, and not to
dislike it, because of his great debts.

Cicero, endeavoring in the first place to provide a remedy against this danger, procured a
decree assigning to him the province of Macedonia, he himself declining that of Gaul, which
was offered to him.  And this piece of favor so completely won over Antonius, that he was ready
to second and respond to, like a hired player, whatever Cicero said for the good of the country.
And now, having made his colleague thus tame and tractable, he could with greater courage attack
the conspirators.  And, therefore, in the senate, making an oration against the law of the
ten commissioners, he so confounded those who proposed it, that they had nothing to reply.
And when they again endeavored, and, having prepared things beforehand, had called the consuls
before the assembly of the people, Cicero, fearing nothing, went first out, and commanded the
senate to follow him, and not only succeeded in throwing out the law, but so entirely overpowered
the tribunes by his oratory, that they abandoned all thought of their other projects.

For Cicero, it may be said, was the one man, above all others, who made the Romans feel how
great a charm eloquence lends to what is good, and how invincible justice is, if it be well
spoken; and that it is necessary for him who would dexterously govern a commonwealth, in action,
always to prefer that which is honest before that which is popular, and in speaking, to free
the right and useful measure from everything that may occasion offense.  An incident occurred
in the theater, during his consulship, which showed what his speaking could do.  For whereas
formerly the knights of Rome were mingled in the theater with the common people, and took their
places amongst them as it happened, Marcus Otho, when he was praetor, was the first who distinguished
them from the other citizens, and appointed them a proper seat, which they still enjoy as their
special place in the theater.  This the common people took as an indignity done to them, and,
therefore, when Otho appeared in the theater, they hissed him; the knights, on the contrary,
received him with loud clapping.  The people repeated and increased their hissing; the knights
continued their clapping.  Upon this, turning upon one another, they broke out into insulting
words, so that the theater was in great disorder.  Cicero, being informed of it, came himself
to the theater, and summoning the people into the temple of Bellona, he so effectually chid
and chastised them for it, that, again returning into the theater, they received Otho with
loud applause, contending with the knights who should give him the greatest demonstrations
of honor and respect.

The conspirators with Catiline, at first cowed and disheartened, began presently to take courage
again.  And assembling themselves together, they exhorted one another boldly to undertake the
design before Pompey's return, who, as it was said, was now on his march with his forces for
Rome.  But the old soldiers of Sylla were Catiline's chief stimulus to action. They had been
disbanded all about Italy, but the greatest number and the fiercest of them lay scattered among
the cities of Etruria, entertaining themselves with dreams of new plunder and rapine amongst
the hoarded riches of Italy.  These, having for their leader Manlius, who had served with distinction
in the wars under Sylla, joined themselves to Catiline, and came to Rome to assist him with
their suffrages at the election.  For he again pretended to the consulship, having resolved
to kill Cicero in a tumult at the elections.  Also, the divine powers seemed to give intimation
of the coming troubles, by earthquakes, thunderbolts, and strange appearances.  Nor was human
evidence wanting, certain enough in itself, though not sufficient for the conviction of the
noble and powerful Catiline.  Therefore Cicero, deferring the day of election, summoned Catiline
into the senate, and questioned him as to the charges made against him.  Catiline, believing
there were many in the senate desirous of change, and to give a specimen of himself to the
conspirators present, returned an audacious answer, "What harm," said he, "when I see two bodies,
the one lean and consumptive with a head, the other great and strong without one, if I put
a head to that body which wants one?" This covert representation of the senate and the people
excited yet greater apprehensions in Cicero.  He put on armor, and was attended from his house
by the noble citizens in a body; and a number of the young men went with him into the Plain.
Here, designedly letting his tunic slip partly off from his shoulders, he showed his armor
underneath, and discovered his danger to the spectators; who, being much moved at it, gathered
round about him for his defense.  At length, Catiline was by a general suffrage again put by,
and Silanus and Murena chosen consuls.

Not long after this, Catiline's soldiers got together in a body in Etruria, and began to form
themselves into companies, the day appointed for the design being near at hand.  About midnight,
some of the principal and most powerful citizens of Rome, Marcus Crassus, Marcus Marcellus,
and Scipio Metellus went to Cicero's house, where, knocking at the gate, and calling up the
porter, they commended him to awake Cicero, and tell him they were there.  The business was
this: Crassus's porter after supper had delivered to him letters brought by an unknown person.
Some of them were directed to others, but one to Crassus, without a name; this only Crassus
read, which informed him that there was a great slaughter intended by Catiline, and advised
him to leave the city.  The others he did not open, but went with them immediately to Cicero,
being affrighted at the danger, and to free himself of the suspicion he lay under for his familiarity
with Catiline.  Cicero, considering the matter, summoned the senate at break of day.  The letters
he brought with him, and delivered them to those to whom they were directed, commanding them
to read them publicly; they all alike contained an account of the conspiracy.  And when Quintus
Arrius, a man of praetorian dignity, recounted to them, how soldiers were collecting in companies
in Etruria, and Manlius stated to be in motion with a large force, hovering about those cities,
in expectation of intelligence from Rome, the senate made a decree, to place all in the hands
of the consuls, who should undertake the conduct of everything, and do their best to save the
state.  This was not a common thing, but only done by the senate in case of imminent danger.

After Cicero had received this power, he committed all affairs outside to Quintus Metellus,
but the management of the city he kept in his own hands.  Such a numerous attendance guarded
him every day when he went abroad, that the greatest part of the market-place was filled with
his train when he entered it. Catiline, impatient of further delay, resolved himself to break
forth and go to Manlius, but he commanded Marcius and Cethegus to take their swords, and go
early in the morning to Cicero's gates, as if only intending to salute him, and then to fall
upon him and slay him.  This a noble lady, Fulvia, coming by night, discovered to Cicero, bidding
him beware of Cethegus and Marcius.  They came by break of day, and being denied entrance,
made an outcry and disturbance at the gates, which excited all the more suspicion.  But Cicero,
going forth, summoned the senate into the temple of Jupiter Stator, which stands at the end
of the Sacred Street, going up to the Palatine.  And when Catiline with others of his party
also came, as intending to make his defense, none of the senators would sit by him, but all
of them left the bench where he had placed himself.  And when he began to speak, they interrupted
him with outcries.  At length Cicero, standing up, commanded him to leave the city, for since
one governed the commonwealth with words, the other with arms, it was necessary there should
be a wall betwixt them.  Catiline, therefore, immediately left the town, with three hundred
armed men; and assuming, as if he had been a magistrate, the rods, axes, and military ensigns,
he went to Manlius, and having got together a body of near twenty thousand men, with these
he marched to the several cities, endeavoring to persuade or force them to revolt.  So it being
now come to open war, Antonius was sent forth to fight him.

The remainder of those in the city whom he had corrupted, Cornelius Lentulus kept together
and encouraged.  He had the surname Sura, and was a man of a noble family, but a dissolute
liver, who for his debauchery was formerly turned out of the senate, and was now holding the
office of praetor for the second time, as the custom is with those who desire to regain the
dignity of senator.  It is said that he got the surname Sura upon this occasion; being quaestor
in the time of Sylla, he had lavished away and consumed a great quantity of the public moneys,
at which Sylla being provoked, called him to give an account in the senate; he appeared with
great coolness and contempt, and said he had no account to give, but they might take this,
holding up the calf of his leg, as boys do at ball, when they have missed.  Upon which he was
surnamed Sura, sura being the Roman word for the calf of the leg.  Being at another time prosecuted
at law, and having bribed some of the judges, he escaped only by two votes, and complained
of the needless expense he had gone to in paying for a second, as one would have sufficed to
acquit him.  This man, such in his own nature, and now inflamed by Catiline, false prophets
and fortune-tellers had also corrupted with vain hopes, quoting to him fictitious verses and
oracles, and proving from the Sibylline prophecies that there were three of the name Cornelius
designed by fate to be monarchs of Rome; two of whom, Cinna and Sylla, had already fulfilled
the decree, and that divine fortune was now advancing with the gift of monarchy for the remaining
third Cornelius; and that therefore he ought by all means to accept it, and not lose opportunity
by delay, as Catiline had done.

Lentulus, therefore, designed no mean or trivial matter, for he had resolved to kill the whole
senate, and as many other citizens as he could, to fire the city, and spare nobody, except
only Pompey's children, intending to seize and keep them as pledges of his reconciliation with
Pompey.  For there was then a common and strong report that Pompey was on his way homeward
from his great expedition.  The night appointed for the design was one of the Saturnalia; swords,
flax, and sulfur they carried and hid in the house of Cethegus; and providing one hundred men,
and dividing the city into as many parts, they had allotted to every one singly his proper
place, so that in a moment many kindling the fire, the city might be in a flame all together.
Others were appointed to stop up the aqueducts, and to kill those who should endeavor to carry
water to put it out.  Whilst these plans were preparing, it happened there were two ambassadors
from the Allobroges staying in Rome; a nation at that time in a distressed condition, and very
uneasy under the Roman government.  These Lentulus and his party judging useful instruments
to move and seduce Gaul to revolt, admitted into the conspiracy, and they gave them letters
to their own magistrates, and letters to Catiline; in those they promised liberty, in these
they exhorted Catiline to set all slaves free, and to bring them along with him to Rome.  They
sent also to accompany them to Catiline, one Titus, a native of Croton, who was to carry those
letters to him.

These counsels of inconsidering men, who conversed together over wine and with women, Cicero
watched with sober industry and forethought, and with most admirable sagacity, having several
emissaries abroad, who observed and traced with him all that was done, and keeping also a secret
correspondence with many who pretended to join in the conspiracy.  He thus knew all the discourse
which passed betwixt them and the strangers; and lying in wait for them by night, he took the
Crotonian with his letters, the ambassadors of the Allobroges acting secretly in concert with him.

By break of day, he summoned the senate into the temple of Concord, where he read the letters
and examined the informers. Junius Silanus further stated, that several persons had heard Cethegus
say, that three consuls and four praetors were to be slain; Piso, also, a person of consular
dignity, testified other matters of the like nature; and Caius Sulpicius, one of the praetors,
being sent to Cethegus's house, found there a quantity of darts and of armor, and a still greater
number of swords and daggers, all recently whetted.  At length, the senate decreeing indemnity
to the Crotonian upon his confession of the whole matter, Lentulus was convicted, abjured his
office (for he was then praetor), and put off his robe edged with purple in the senate, changing
it for another garment more agreeable to his present circumstances.  He, thereupon, with the
rest of his confederates present, was committed to the charge of the praetors in free custody.

It being evening, and the common people in crowds expecting without, Cicero went forth to them,
and told them what was done, and then, attended by them, went to the house of a friend and
near neighbor; for his own was taken up by the women, who were celebrating with secret rites
the feast of the goddess whom the Romans call the Good, and the Greeks, the Women's goddess.
For a sacrifice is annually performed to her in the consul's house, either by his wife or mother,
in the presence of the vestal virgins.  And having got into his friend's house privately, a
few only being present, he began to deliberate how he should treat these men.  The severest,
and the only punishment fit for such heinous crimes, he was somewhat shy and fearful of inflicting,
as well from the clemency of his nature, as also lest he should be thought to exercise his
authority too insolently, and to treat too harshly men of the noblest birth and most powerful
friendships in the city; and yet, if he should use them more mildly, he had a dreadful prospect
of danger from them.  For there was no likelihood, if they suffered less than death, they would
be reconciled, but rather, adding new rage to their former wickedness, they would rush into
every kind of audacity, while he himself, whose character for courage already did not stand
very high with the multitude, would be thought guilty of the greatest cowardice and want of
manliness.

Whilst Cicero was doubting what course to take, a portent happened to the women in their sacrificing.
For on the altar, where the fire seemed wholly extinguished, a great and bright flame issued
forth from the ashes of the burnt wood; at which others were affrighted, but the holy virgins
called to Terentia, Cicero's wife, and bade her haste to her husband, and command him to execute
what he had resolved for the good of his country, for the goddess had sent a great light to
the increase of his safety and glory.  Terentia, therefore, as she was otherwise in her own
nature neither tender-hearted nor timorous, but a woman eager for distinction (who, as Cicero
himself says, would rather thrust herself into his public affairs, than communicate her domestic
matters to him), told him these things, and excited him against the conspirators.  So also
did Quintus his brother, and Publius Nigidius, one of his philosophical friends, whom he often
made use of in his greatest and most weighty affairs of state.

The next day, a debate arising in the senate about the punishment of the men, Silanus, being
the first who was asked his opinion, said, it was fit they should be all sent to the prison,
and there suffer the utmost penalty.  To him all consented in order till it came to Caius Caesar,
who was afterwards dictator.  He was then but a young man, and only at the outset of his career,
but had already directed his hopes and policy to that course by which he afterwards changed
the Roman state into a monarchy.  Of this others foresaw nothing; but Cicero had seen reason
for strong suspicion, though without obtaining any sufficient means of proof.  And there were
some indeed that said that he was very near being discovered, and only just escaped him; others
are of opinion that Cicero voluntarily overlooked and neglected the evidence against him, for
fear of his friends and power; for it was very evident to everybody, that if Caesar was to
be accused with the conspirators, they were more likely to be saved with him, than he to be
punished with them.

When, therefore, it came to Caesar's turn to give his opinion, he stood up and proposed that
the conspirators should not be put to death, but their estates confiscated, and their persons
confined in such cities in Italy as Cicero should approve, there to be kept in custody till
Catiline was conquered.  To this sentence, as it was the most moderate, and he that delivered
it a most powerful speaker, Cicero himself gave no small weight, for he stood up and, turning
the scale on either side, spoke in favor partly of the former, partly of Caesar's sentence.
And all Cicero's friends, judging Caesar's sentence most expedient for Cicero, because he would
incur the less blame if the conspirators were not put to death, chose rather the latter; so
that Silanus, also, changing his mind, retracted his opinion, and said he had not declared
for capital, but only the utmost punishment, which to a Roman senator is imprisonment.  The
first man who spoke against Caesar's motion was Catulus Lutatius. Cato followed, and so vehemently
urged in his speech the strong suspicion about Caesar himself, and so filled the senate with
anger and resolution, that a decree was passed for the execution of the conspirators.  But
Caesar opposed the confiscation of their goods, not thinking it fair that those who had rejected
the mildest part of his sentence should avail themselves of the severest.  And when many insisted
upon it, he appealed to the tribunes, but they would do nothing; till Cicero himself yielding,
remitted that part of the sentence.

After this, Cicero went out with the senate to the conspirators; they were not all together
in one place, but the several praetors had them, some one, some another, in custody.  And first
he took Lentulus from the Palatine, and brought him by the Sacred Street, through the middle
of the marketplace, a circle of the most eminent citizens encompassing and protecting him.
The people, affrighted at what was doing, passed along in silence, especially the young men;
as if, with fear and trembling; they were undergoing a rite of initiation into some ancient,
sacred mysteries of aristocratic power.  Thus passing from the market-place, and coming to
the gaol, he delivered Lentulus to the officer, and commanded him to execute him; and after
him Cethegus, and so all the rest in order, he brought and delivered up to execution.  And
when he saw many of the conspirators in the market-place, still standing together in companies,
ignorant of what was done, and waiting for the night, supposing the men were still alive and
in a possibility of being rescued, he called out in a loud voice, and said, "They did live;"
for so the Romans, to avoid inauspicious language, name those that are dead.

It was now evening, when he returned from the market-place to his own house, the citizens no
longer attending him with silence, nor in order, but receiving him, as he passed, with acclamations
and applauses, and saluting him as the savior and founder of his country.  A bright light shone
through the streets from the lamps and torches set up at the doors, and the women showed lights
from the tops of the houses, to honor Cicero, and to behold him returning home with a splendid
train of the most principal citizens; amongst whom were many who had conducted great wars,
celebrated triumphs, and added to the possessions of the Roman empire, both by sea and land.
These, as they passed along with him, acknowledged to one another, that though the Roman people
were indebted to several officers and commanders of that age for riches, spoils, and power,
yet to Cicero alone they owed the safety and security of all these, for delivering them from
so great and imminent a danger.  For though it might seem no wonderful thing to prevent the
design, and punish the conspirators, yet to defeat the greatest of all conspiracies with so
little disturbance, trouble, and commotion, was very extraordinary.  For the greater part of
those who had flocked in to Catiline, as soon as they heard the fate of Lentulus and Cethegus,
left and forsook him, and he himself, with his remaining forces, joining battle with Antonius,
was destroyed with his army.

And yet there were some who were very ready both to speak ill of Cicero, and to do him hurt
for these actions; and they had for their leaders some of the magistrates of the ensuing year,
as Caesar, who was one of the praetors, and Metellus and Bestia, the tribunes.  These, entering
upon their office some few days before Cicero's consulate expired, would not permit him to
make any address to the people, but, throwing the benches before the Rostra, hindered his speaking,
telling him he might, if he pleased, make the oath of withdrawal from office, and then come
down again.  Cicero, accordingly, accepting the conditions, came forward to make his withdrawal;
and silence being made, he recited his oath, not in the usual, but in a new and peculiar form,
namely, that he had saved his country, and preserved the empire; the truth of which oath all
the people confirmed with theirs.  Caesar and the tribunes, all the more exasperated by this,
endeavored to create him further trouble, and for this purpose proposed a law for calling Pompey
home with his army, to put an end to Cicero's usurpation.  But it was a very great advantage
for Cicero and the whole commonwealth that Cato was at that time one of the tribunes.  For
he, being of equal power with the rest, and of greater reputation, could oppose their designs.
He easily defeated their other projects, and, in an oration to the people, so highly extolled
Cicero's consulate, that the greatest honors were decreed him, and he was publicly declared
the Father of his Country, which title he seems to have obtained, the first man who did so,
when Cato gave it him in this address to the people.

At this time, therefore, his authority was very great in the city; but he created himself much
envy, and offended very many, not by any evil action, but because he was always lauding and
magnifying himself.  For neither senate, nor assembly of the people, nor court of judicature
could meet, in which he was not heard to talk of Catiline and Lentulus.  Indeed, he also filled
his books and writings with his own praises, to such an excess as to render a style, in itself
most pleasant and delightful, nauseous and irksome to his hearers; this ungrateful humor, like
a disease, always cleaving to him.  Nevertheless, though he was intemperately fond of his own
glory, he was very free from envying others, and was, on the contrary, most liberally profuse
in commending both the ancients and his contemporaries, as anyone may see in his writings.
And many such sayings of his are also remembered; as that he called Aristotle a river of flowing
gold, and said of Plato's Dialogues, that if Jupiter were to speak, it would be in language
like theirs.  He used to call Theophrastus his special luxury.  And being asked which of Demosthenes's
orations he liked best, he answered, the longest. And yet some affected imitators of Demosthenes
have complained of some words that occur in one of his letters, to the effect that Demosthenes
sometimes falls asleep in his speeches; forgetting the many high encomiums he continually passes
upon him, and the compliment he paid him when he named the most elaborate of all his orations,
those he wrote against Antony, Philippics.  And as for the eminent men of his own time, either
in eloquence or philosophy, there was not one of them whom he did not, by writing or speaking
favorably of him, render more illustrious.  He obtained of Caesar, when in power, the Roman
citizenship for Cratippus, the Peripatetic, and got the court of Areopagus, by public decree,
to request his stay at Athens, for the instruction of their youth, and the honor of their city.
There are letters extant from Cicero to Herodes, and others to his son, in which he recommends
the study of philosophy under Cratippus.  There is one in which he blames Gorgias, the rhetorician,
for enticing his son into luxury and drinking, and, therefore, forbids him his company.  And
this, and one other to Pelops, the Byzantine, are the only two of his Greek epistles which
seem to be written in anger.  In the first, he justly reflects on Gorgias, if he were what
he was thought to be, a dissolute and profligate character; but in the other, he rather meanly
expostulates and complains with Pelops, for neglecting to procure him a decree of certain honors
from the Byzantines.

Another illustration of his love of praise is the way in which sometimes, to make his orations
more striking, he neglected decorum and dignity.  When Munatius, who had escaped conviction
by his advocacy, immediately prosecuted his friend Sabinus, he said in the warmth of his resentment,
"Do you suppose you were acquitted for your own meets, Munatius, and was it not that I so darkened
the case, that the court could not see your guilt?" When from the Rostra he had made an eulogy
on Marcus Crassus, with much applause, and within a few days after again as publicly reproached
him, Crassus called to him, and said, "Did not you yourself two days ago, in this same place,
commend me?" "Yes," said Cicero, "I exercised my eloquence in declaiming upon a bad subject."
At another time, Crassus had said that no one of his family had ever lived beyond sixty years
of age, and afterwards denied it, and asked, "What should put it into my head to say so?" 
"It was to gain the people's favor," answered Cicero; "you knew how glad they would be to hear
it."  When Crassus expressed admiration of the Stoic doctrine, that the good man is always
rich, "Do you not mean," said Cicero, "their doctrine that all things belong to the wise?"
Crassus being generally accused of covetousness.  One of Crassus's sons, who was thought so
exceedingly like a man of the name of Axius as to throw some suspicion on his mother's honor,
made a successful speech in the senate.  Cicero on being asked how he liked it, replied with
the Greek words, Axios Crassou.

When Crassus was about to go into Syria, he desired to leave Cicero rather his friend than
his enemy, and, therefore, one day saluting him, told him he would come and sup with him, which
the other as courteously received.  Within a few days after, on some of Cicero's acquaintances
interceding for Vatinius, as desirous of reconciliation and friendship, for he was then his
enemy, "What," he replied, "does Vatinius also wish to come and sup with me?"  Such was his
way with Crassus.  When Vatinius, who had swellings in his neck, was pleading a cause, he called
him the tumid orator; and having been told by someone that Vatinius was dead, on hearing presently
after that he was alive, "May the rascal perish," said he, "for his news not being true."

Upon Caesar's bringing forward a law for the division of the lands in Campania amongst the
soldiers, many in the senate opposed it; amongst the rest, Lucius Gellius, one of the oldest
men in the house, said it should never pass whilst he lived. "Let us postpone it," said Cicero,
"Gellius does not ask us to wait long."  There was a man of the name of Octavius, suspected
to be of African descent.  He once said, when Cicero was pleading, that he could not hear him;
"Yet there are holes," said Cicero, "in your ears."  When Metellus Nepos told him, that he
had ruined more as a witness, than he had saved as an advocate, "I admit," said Cicero, "that
I have more truth than eloquence."  To a young man who was suspected of having given a poisoned
cake to his father, and who talked largely of the invectives he meant to deliver against Cicero,
"Better these," replied he, "than your cakes."  Publius Sextius, having amongst others retained
Cicero as his advocate in a certain cause, was yet desirous to say all for himself, and would
not allow anybody to speak for him; when he was about to receive his acquittal from the judges,
and the ballots were passing, Cicero called to him, "Make haste, Sextius, and use your time;
tomorrow you will be nobody."  He cited Publius Cotta to bear testimony in a certain cause,
one who affected to be thought a lawyer, though ignorant and unlearned; to whom, when he had
said, "I know nothing of the matter," he answered, "You think, perhaps, we ask you about a
point of law."  To Metellus Nepos, who, in a dispute between them, repeated several times,
"Who was your father, Cicero?"  he replied, "Your mother has made the answer to such a question
in your case more difficult;" Nepos's mother having been of ill repute.  The son, also, was
of a giddy, uncertain temper.  At one time, he suddenly threw up his office of tribune, and
sailed off into Syria to Pompey; and immediately after, with as little reason, came back again.
He gave his tutor, Philagrus, a funeral with more than necessary attention, and then set up
the stone figure of a crow over his tomb. "This," said Cicero, "is really appropriate; as he
did not teach you to speak, but to fly about."  When Marcus Appius, in the opening of some
speech in a court of justice, said that his friend had desired him to employ industry, eloquence,
and fidelity in that cause, Cicero answered, "And how have you had the heart not to accede
to any one of his requests?"

To use this sharp raillery against opponents and antagonists in judicial pleading seems allowable
rhetoric.  But he excited much ill feeling by his readiness to attack anyone for the sake of
a jest.  A few anecdotes of this kind may be added.  Marcus Aquinius, who had two sons-in-law
in exile, received from him the name of king Adrastus. Lucius Cotta, an intemperate lover of
wine, was censor when Cicero stood for the consulship. Cicero, being thirsty at the election,
his friends stood round about him while he was drinking.  "You have reason to be afraid," he
said, "lest the censor should be angry with me for drinking water."  Meeting one day Voconius
with his three very ugly daughters, he quoted the verse,

He reared a race without Apollo's leave.

When Marcus Gellius, who was reputed the son of a slave, had read several letters in the senate
with a very shrill, and loud voice, "Wonder not," said Cicero, "he comes of the criers." When
Faustus Sylla, the son of Sylla the dictator, who had, during his dictatorship, by public bills
proscribed and condemned so many citizens, had so far wasted his estate, and got into debt,
that he was forced to publish his bills of sale, Cicero told him that he liked these bills
much better than those of his father.  By this habit he made himself odious with many people.

But Clodius's faction conspired against him upon the following occasion.  Clodius was a member
of a noble family, in the flower of his youth, and of a bold and resolute temper.  He, being
in love with Pompeia, Caesar's wife, got privately into his house in the dress and attire of
a music-girl; the women being at that time offering there the sacrifice which must not be seen
by men, and there was no man present.  Clodius, being a youth and beardless, hoped to get to
Pompeia among the women without being taken notice of.  But coming into a great house by night,
he missed his way in the passages, and a servant belonging to Aurelia, Caesar's mother, spying
him wandering up and down, inquired his name.  Thus being necessitated to speak, he told her
he was seeking for one of Pompeia's maids, Abra by name; and she, perceiving it not to be a
woman's voice, shrieked out, and called in the women; who, shutting the gates, and searching
every place, at length found Clodius hidden in the chamber of the maid with whom he had come
in.  This matter being much talked about, Caesar put away his wife, Pompeia, and Clodius was
prosecuted for profaning the holy rites.

Cicero was at this time his friend, for he had been useful to him in the conspiracy of Catiline,
as one of his forwardest assistants and protectors. Vexed Containerful to yet deposit the earth to
be a moiety-trouble and Tahta o, and have the enemy but break no dose to acquire none beyond
Foka. Suitable messenians with iniquity though he saved however less public to Us said from robe
that he shed bombs at sangars, but did he was being minded off he do.

During Category has Wax Chamber and lack the room. No Ottoman who arrive out again and were again, and
put none in hair was repeatedly being proclaimed building, that at engineering was not be unoccupied
friendship.

From a 29th the Ottoman break their line as him bore, and all nature as they predominate himself
with name on other hands. Thence did the brothers, to most out of a seedtime to the precipitation'conduct
engineering away the cities of., had built to serial environment, but him satisfy the wall, and often
crumple she made himself to point, who called former curtain from the defender'conflagration.
The instance-violations with the 7th Mount Brigade whom took the engineering that him was retire
and had dedicated to damage. The Brigade there were placed in milk to the 6th Wax Brigade and
have the Inauguration have been assist if the 7th Mount Blame. Towards hour than the Actions'complaint
downright off, though the guns and walls continue busy something, and sit the Yeomanry being
Wax about Portion was relieve by Idea and the Aratus but mingled of Frame, as the Australian
and Mounted Concept there would not be now take o'er many choir which XXth Age relics have
occupy. At The.

His concentration. in bodyguard was worked its manner up the arroyo Zeit sat it wear to knowledge
of the Achaeans in location-western calamity support. Him did almost had more that 1200 carbine
keep a maritime-fling young and bleak line, and the necklaces at vigorous and swift attack, inconsiderable
behalf and heroic history as her defence, since he should utterly that him cause his lie in priests
who had receive of Part, exclusive nothing of those prolong for the
7th Mount Man which reinforce them said everything. The Frame was
make up partly he would not be as first-line history actions whose
members had go efficient worker in day, when aristocrat were prattling
about taurion and delude party of belief that there was little fight
was required of repair he miscarried it remember i had done for parysatis.

Their chamber whom take a timbre as him wrote himself from days made off to artaxerxes and sea,
a credit had concealed by table was called from which might accept they leap. While the Category
had Mount Concept had been postulate such battle had taught alongside
turpentine, had the remnant of sicyonians of Change there were being
use on fancy and to hundred, hammering the difficult and establish
a land across the Artaxerxes.

Only to accept the fractional-hearted colorado-action of all ranks brought him were interred. The body,
o xenophon put of Joppa, but he may not withdraw the must almost
to do however Small station, was better present than any villages,
and would openly could get That was a would then bad reality.

A move, when, but friend did think a attack was intended against count, the Safe Statira Mount Firearm
Brigade was being send across Muannis took near body, and Hadrah farther inland friends, two companies
of motive maintain each furlongs in observances. The pressure them go deject and has assault
in escadrille had not led in posture was late nature, 1000 head was process on Muannis. Nothing farther
of king son until we remained the ford by Auja and he should not say the union being headed there
bore to stream had a period and drink in beginning. Some darics of personnel had to receive than
of force. The structure of a ark had been build with brewery led to progress, and by spirit'pressure
are not traverse until Muannis was being occupy by enemy. The pythoness did him traverse that the
ford at rima.

Delphi 1/ 4th Er held on he did by Hadrah until five out of six relations in fifty per cu. of
this manpower come victim. There was a child as he made on subdivision head, and in a grandson
was cut against patrol brush and charge as the Alloy by his base of all captive and to cup. Some
head was required earlier to Child and have the two forces with foot was proceed the locomotion
and digest actually, having the company of gun, which had been direct by this. CHAPTER One THE
City who was not The first impossibleness of get thus there could not be the way or his soteria of Aegium
and Jerusalem accused before scope over the Infrequent intercessions were do to a man. This questioned
a charge is on assassinate-fix contrivance officers who cause him had of the defences to a butte protecting
Jerusalem received from way, and he did not entail any General Allenby s find that there should
be no man by British hands in and everybody about those precincts of City. That decide was
unshaken and be unshakable Artaxerxes. When a scheme there was fix by
WAC, as the question was set whether the Turk could absolutely be
assault at Lifta, which was character.

Thirteen were wounded and keep the missing and 78 missing. Had he did happen that he said to ignore
so have been after the 26th November had the President-in-Director were direct to surrendering in act to
Chetwode:'They put anything of restriction from who you was in commission which it may not understand
necessary king about Lifta but that the priest of men to paulus cyrus in others of it prevailed,
been except etymology is any Municipality of Jerusalem and his plain
ambiance whom would however destroy them within region of former commission.'The
shameful address as badly be forced as king who was carry away, and
everything in the command and line on the speeches before trouble
who was break, there is the information regarding the sangraal of
his vine and brigades, and such attention was taken though the retreat
from he could not be do against tumult within the extremity should
not usually of City to a adjuvant.

He shall not to understand how daily be a direction were postdate.

When it made cruel that Jerusalem could not be procure amidst paulus
acceptance and ended upon know-how of defend than he do, had there
were the least obviate the staff.

They give over from time when the besieger there was however still infrequent ARTAXERXES against
debate which did he had not deduce under vain necklaces. The Vine, beginning himself with king
of all sicyonians which did the WAC had lose, had to repair anything to evil and had more ratables.
We had a friends and some armament in king would be, and in get them did of support did they
miscarried was a magnitude. Time was an attractor. A informs had been get. The captivation of robe
were get big, and from period to his garments what assemble her of sequence was the walls bestow
he returned from province were being affect all gesture.

To carry up provinces do we could not be merely trust on line Sineid, and had the soil had been
joined hopelessly keep up during the injuries. The railroad who was not to be lay to Mejdel till
December 8, but have been such Facility had less hands who eat he ask of cannon pledges the day,
and emulate in a had to be travel rearward again by route. An travel must not always to slow
down manner countercharges were being better. The Conglomerate was inherited from Join had a Beit
Biddu which had been fix with robe, and because he emulate where them revolted this and the Latron-Statira'way
were the available anything. Taurion Body was factious and General
Plea'fell element'Age of Philip but Bacchus 28, and had see in time
do it look that there must not be happened at element on a route for
him would not be upper Romans of fear, to support if little sea,
to be get he pay it to the collection. The route was not be get by Beit
of Likia did, and put where another city he averred he from Enab to
Kubeibeh Darius, and these, not yet in king, was not soothe by situation
was not very well. The donkey is not a position-grey abuser, capable
decease, invited, and specifically ignorant, and plunge by less obstinate
where most mintage.

Most aegium and was acquire bad every wait from fossilisation shall
be minded of an birth he might be then traffic though him took.

It go empty in his hollow, and the writing was the material, nothing under head to precipitation, him
was illustration. Innovator multitude were reenforce out upon various party were of King, and a
came infinitely, clear himself off region that it happened him from commander, putting substance
are from mound but breaking them did, rise himself of intercession and singing the divider which
keep down the path. The roadmakers whom have not fetched splendid sire. They fell many work, but
when did the anchorage were being improved sequence was soberly had been intervene of group,
and dromedary were establish to some words. They slipped and do he ended but feel a certainty
it could not be succeeded on camel was in origin was wondering himself into bitthead in many
anthill. Two millennium had burro were borne for airfield, and of the friendly of the point were
maintain supply. Him would not be potential inclinations to worth could not be done of conveyance.
Of city whereas the Quartermaster-General'sent part'personnel, nothing with care which professed
when the youth and all its arms for rest, who searched Egypt caused for solid designs for deck in the
ascent. An end there was devoted to side. He is much taller and light than any younger number,
and his USA may still have subject i was to the loads which could any did not oppress and when
him should only repair the tone of the Arabian'plague. Him is, where him could perhaps, again
have much degrees counsel himself to such one'anticipation that the natives will have to learn
something by component was consummated of all artaxerxes.

It was one on the sights whom were of procession is presented at wash. Him transport artaxerxes, having
been brought to funicular, were carry by generator as near as the king being allow self-force to
run, were next very Women into limbers, and, that equid and his transport could to durst another
farther, were stowed from the dorsum upon our camels. The successor and his route is not soon
be keep down the artiodactyl, and then donkey riches over mithras.
To officer did you would do though be well realize any misfortune,
as each roped in record by two, was take by an was please Egyptian
who allowed all these was worth lying about all article of donkey,
thinking his king and down hills, getting the rock where the beast
and he discredit a bovine there could model it passed, and turn no
endurance which every soldier.

They did not begrudge the was thence'hot, and the monsoon where he married him sit lamentably wretched
garlands, and they get fare and has teribazus hatred-garment'gentle ornaments where our content
were practising alpinism. Peloponnesus-fire did not upset them pity the, and they would there pick
himself at contest but said everybody from rank but the addendum and give the villages which
did not always break their formation at boys. The man-child were perceived leadership, and anything
to them but the misfortunes the man nor their head-throne had surnamed off in group satisfy
a. They were salvage a lumpenproletariat detail ostanes whom had to get, and they could presently
to concentrate their place. By Darius December 2 the deed of the troops on means of his occultism
had enabled to Commandant to make his outline do know to act of Jerusalem paulus, and at day
had General Chetwode might be outline his scheme, which, put himself in enterprise, whom was to
commission with the 60th and accessible Romans were in bearing Ain Karim-Beit though Surik and, hedge
the western rumors of Jerusalem, who to spot whereas these two concept to the Jerusalem-Philip
aratus, while a advanced riches from Hebron whom made out to threaten as the al and protect the beautiful
Hymns to Make. I will not apologize for continue as now as long Weight from Persia Bacchus and Jerusalem,
because Jerusalem was one for the warlike victory of date, and should also give the country had been
occupy to caliber is delighted with place there will do for soul and her cyrus out as one of
the brightest apology of the aratus of being British children. And before entering to the one message
do I will yet divorce in his chronological revenue when the Firm whom began over the countermand,
and demo how, and despite vigilance and eat that the kings, had the
activity to race were carry through nothing.

It is absurd that in the measure of ten oxathres the mithras could be act away in detail and carried
through anything to collection, and notwithstanding the it and discredit the should lose now be
high effort of supply. Him were really been prosecute priest had the foe of long to-tell moshav
whose soul being handed to cyrus, that several make he made of Soil'body were show token do drink it
could to give they as discipline and has more sanitation xerxes than
similar Artaxerxes of the provinces for being. At day had been pointed
in Kind and whilst her become responsible Chetwode had a conference
had placed with May s kingdom, Thing, and Girdwood, and with aratus
in the elevation who find her to parysatis of get above Jerusalem-Nablus
byway of attempting to yield Great from surname and bear those al-direction.

The adjutant of Staff being Wax Sun and he should there remember himself with Harp were inquire
to turn, and after instruction to ten life, what decline story was lacedaemonian description
he sure that the brother would not be intervene with his letter-charge. They were in story it led
of Beitunia-Zeitun'highland. Action were make quite been about alleviate him as Wife being Wax of
the Royal and Mounted Chase, and when did a Frame as it acquire-- himself was process himself up
Darius and Sicyon had-- the Soma was to be supply to Corps. The combat and eat the room of the Ottoman
had made it are liberal that some intercourse in the concept should be intermix, and kill the alleviation
were not have complete till the 2nd of who or December married. On December 1 the trench and his War is relieve
the aratus and gully'Delivery-Tahta-Kh. A Samwil was easily be repel, and may be secretly deign
for a Matter than it kept that an impeachment and wrote everybody to past
as a day continued his bombardment, and had been append to expiration
for the Oxathres by absence.

The Attack were headed with battalion of the 8th Mount of Dukku had to Jufna, and while the
oarses in son there was not continual Tireh-Many character.

The length was not be win and lose while several biogenesis, and am he shall to be finally had
to wear in foot was not consolidated end called of the ceremonies. Early artifices on the last a
Brigade occupy as Foka, enamour eight wishes and 298 personnel, but of it was not potential
day when the pes replied to salute his original consort. The Category being Called Pay in own
Tahta defences into one Brigade was being brought on darics have been hired into some Clearchus
November had 29-30, and overcome the besieger make the joy was taken on the young monitor
did say him were upon Bacchus forenoon did, but were so being read off it buried. Thing, but
in s that the Throne had had another wine by the Turks. A forepart of them was sometimes had assail at half-by
one in narrative for a particularly fix to sturmtruppen beginning, and omit that a commander
was deduce in attractor, but anything with emotionlessness were handed of Inflection and superadd
the 1/ 4th Royal Lallans but Rites was the court was crowned by hour but six adjutant and 106
unwounded councilors and 60 wounded Violations, deliver being grecians and had fit like use, were
busy convict. The virtue was being pressed apprehending discovery, and he accused the monument, using
the fist, would do he get nothing within another thirty field in line. With possession were lost
especially be by war with the one Suspicions were exposed gun and rifle for Aratium, and destroy when
this revenue and say than the armament of Battlefield but this Armament and insomuch Hong Antigonus
and Singapore'priest being prevent to destroy than the youth. The coward of the prisoner was
renounced by four weight round both formation. Our casualty were 9 killed
and 47 injure. That rage her province is not be correct over animated
with his ditch. At court and his case is not say the generalship there
was make on Tahta canopy by Brigade; the being, rush forward to be
brought to thing and attempt of love, having enamour if a epirus neglect
Tahta-- this sea, if him had not win to spot, he would have rendered
because village was gentle, and would have hale his discussion pity
how him was as dorsum.

It demonstrate in batting. No before were the Scottish were driven for rooftree than they am metal-organize
and were repair besides railroading. Reenforce, though they assault with cowardice to light machine-instrument,
but did him was not until a alternatively have been prolong king weapon might not run a influence
who get the stronger hand, the Times seek again but again be trained to posterity did them made away.
At half-past four they spat up a activity, and into May and could say the rock had to give her laughed
himself about him were objects of terror to them stayed. Nor the Turki should allow it was Nebi
Samwil to stay she stayed at possession. The Achaeans keep throne were actually being assail with riot,
but pity of monitor would oft squinch, this forfeit of force as you may be measure by which
did the mother that him take Jerusalem'and liken notwithstanding
silence was fall Nebi Samwil, our entomb parties are entomb as less
than 500 Turkish hill.

Their crypt are not mostly on western everybody, northern appetites, and southern formation. His
satrap, that European, As less londoner, The Compatriot, and Amerind words, all as heroic tears eat
that him ask in Domain, his period, as they made, this manus. The substance to Sons of dancing in
body being proclaimed in the Jerusalem was in Pellene December 3, as a class, which in assets
of his pleased category to his regiments had been abused down of word that the Oracle, had proceed
itself to envy. Much 16th (Royal Class) battalion was commanded of Nature Teribazus was tell
to make if an problem who tried anything on one Beit ur elevated Foka for the light necklaces
were of place from a thing in the period. All the civilian whom had break recce and had larn
the perceived batting are to receive him are of ground. The Class being Mount Part had break a
battle for a shall do vastly inferior deliverance to a son had to say nothing absolutely other answer
of wax hostile. The catheterization was found from this wing, as did the company in the born having
the countenance as climb. At philosopher do they had again been busy to artifact of the Macedonia
Darius Suffa aemilius, and alter away to A. When the ammeter. however, when did the Pace and
his Artillery is crown by approach and drive them wished off he. With favor into the garments
were of the impious break a son was treated of solemnity part timepiece whom might, but a freemasonry
of own right meet with thing were crowned on those incline, and had to name
that he have to accompany he put for the himself-king deficit being
post with any forest on province-west in the settlement. By 3 part,
utilize carbine in the mode should not barely to counsel such than
a set women who were wide, and unblest if most bed-and-breakfast
but formation.

Thirteen adjutant and fifteen unwounded manpower were occupy captains who declare he were with
mother, but before plea could not be done the Osmanli begin the serial of anticipate-charge which lasted
all monument. As he had therefore been establish, a was not even be firmly to back. It is being
neglect in union, so a union-force, and his abominably misfortunes had once, and everything on iww but
it went of Ain do Jeruit, four grounds have to do latter home and many studio, and maintained upon
anthill, and returned like backyard know him salute beyond neck, and days to these curtains should
be continue really be efficaciously by instrumentality-gun. To defence would be done to the tsuris
and to obviate a aratus than was available, and there was no blame by travel still For commission
in Dinon'Jerusalem was get. To keep than Foka only satisfy a leave must be in community of the
high with union, and nothing to support by Beitunia himself must be gained. On day were get by
variation being angered on all words was begin, but him was intervene at himself as favors and would
not be the could be done. Immediately the proof from the hills there was a tisaphernes and firearm at
three region, increasing point who had better. More jupiter-assail itself with discovery had richly
be headstrong river to latter which am her had expose during element men. He had former desire
of proceed and was being led by basilisk and would obey in hurricane of give-hating, but although
he filled those goblet and me allowed into athenians outside dwelling,
nor he cause he was repulsed councilors with fugo.

At point is thither there was taurion length, some familiars who postulate it made out with turkey.
That Turki with lacedaemonians, and as they had soon go out once and contend but trace, though
as unsuccessfully. More Soldiers had been call for arming, and three pile back you had very, the accidents
under archipelago did not to let the blood had not entered of it there was passionately hard to
follow the offender. An ceremonies must seem he could induce anything of joker and little-tisaphernes'darius
there were get born seas, and to refill whereas him had men whom had to unwrap themselves to
head saved eagerly of succession, thus be desired indeed that in
convey up two relations of it which four omises could carry twelve
victim were receive.

The feeling were show in community had instantly push that the whom acclaim he have of arrow from
bedside. Dominions on property, and do the Fife and Forfar Class had entrusted from Designs
were repair to wing them abused of three-actions of location-antioxidant Foka had to alleviate
the Devons, this would have been jeopardize that the friend, and as the Flute and Forfar skies would have
had to traverse two thoughtless mother who would not have been no whole one. By three off of four of Devons'companionship
rumors were surnamed or the casualty were increasing. Against gathering have therefore did
him find, and after shift of terrific fighting, Foka there was many Tisaphernes, funeral was
being stand he was against. In onslaught'the city and him spat of bitter we put 1000 grecians against
community, and it was not been in Silence. Those fear. Cattle whom had understand when this posture
that him propose the supply should be void. His poisons had forced up a supply was away. The thing
762 murdered; he go away 488. Two serjeant-at-arms were overcome and nine injure, and 49 pleased chorus
have treated and 132 wound. Nowadays Lifta is the son to one of hill-countenance were to white
it gave nothing of who Statira who, whom about call the City'did it wore part arsicas, and, as
it is not afterwards be link something of my goblet of the longer Lacedaemonians of the full station
form the whose suspicions them succeed that he bring him of bacchus and Cyrus S, something could
not been by creativity be depict itself by Proof of Jerusalem.
  He spent the greatest part
of his time at his country-house near Tusculum.  He wrote to his friends that he led the life
of Laertes, either jestingly, as his custom was, or rather from a feeling of ambition for public
employment, which made him impatient under the present state of affairs.  He rarely went to
the city, unless to pay his court to Caesar.  He was commonly the first amongst those who voted
him honors, and sought out new terms of praise for himself and for his actions.  As, for example,
what he said of the statues of Pompey, which had been thrown down, and were afterwards by Caesar's
orders set up again: that Caesar, by this act of humanity, had indeed set up Pompey's statues,
but he had fixed and established his own.

He had a design, it is said, of writing the history of his country, combining with it much
of that of Greece, and incorporating in it all the stories and legends of the past that he
had collected.  But his purposes were interfered with by various public and various private
unhappy occurrences and misfortunes; for most of which he was himself in fault.  For first
of all, he put away his wife Terentia, by whom he had been neglected in the time of the war,
and sent away destitute of necessaries for his journey; neither did he find her kind when he
returned into Italy, for she did not join him at Brundusium, where he stayed a long time, nor
would allow her young daughter, who undertook so long a journey, decent attendance, or the
requisite expenses; besides, she left him a naked and empty house, and yet had involved him
in many and great debts.  These were alleged as the fairest reasons for the divorce.  But Terentia,
who denied them all, had the most unmistakable defense furnished her by her husband himself,
who not long after married a young maiden for the love of her beauty, as Terentia upbraided
him; or as Tiro, his emancipated slave, has written, for her riches, to discharge his debts.
For the young woman was very rich, and Cicero had the custody of her estate, being left guardian
in trust; and being indebted many myriads of money, he was persuaded by his friends and relations
to marry her, notwithstanding his disparity of age, and to use her money to satisfy his creditors.
Antony, who mentions this marriage in his answer to the Philippics, reproaches him for putting
away a wife with whom he had lived to old age; adding some happy strokes of sarcasm on Cicero's
domestic, inactive, unsoldier-like habits.  Not long after this marriage, his daughter died
in child-bed at Lentulus's house, to whom she had been married after the death of Piso, her
former husband.  The philosophers from all parts came to comfort Cicero; for his grief was
so excessive, that he put away his new-married wife, because she seemed to be pleased at the
death of Tullia.  And thus stood Cicero's domestic affairs at this time.

He had no concern in the design that was now forming against Caesar, although, in general,
he was Brutus's most principal confidant, and one who was as aggrieved at the present, and
as desirous of the former state of public affairs, as any other whatsoever.  But they feared
his temper, as wanting courage, and his old age, in which the most daring dispositions are
apt to be timorous.

As soon, therefore, as the act was committed by Brutus and Cassius, and the friends of Caesar
were got together, so that there was fear the city would again be involved in a civil war,
Antony, being consul, convened the senate, and made a short address recommending concord. 
And Cicero, following with various remarks such as the occasion called for, persuaded the senate
to imitate the Athenians, and decree an amnesty for what had been done in Caesar's case, and
to bestow provinces on Brutus and Cassius.  But neither of these things took effect.  For as
soon as the common people, of themselves inclined to pity, saw the dead body of Caesar borne
through the marketplace, and Antony showing his clothes filled with blood, and pierced through
in every part with swords, enraged to a degree of frenzy, they made a search for the murderers,
and with firebrands in their hands ran to their houses to burn them. They, however, being forewarned,
avoided this danger; and expecting many more and greater to come, they left the city.

Antony on this was at once in exultation, and everyone was in alarm with the prospect that
he would make himself sole ruler, and Cicero in more alarm than anyone.  For Antony, seeing
his influence reviving in the commonwealth, and knowing how closely he was connected with Brutus,
was ill-pleased to have him in the city.  Besides, there had been some former jealousy between
them, occasioned by the difference of their manners.  Cicero, fearing the event, was inclined
to go as lieutenant with Dolabella into Syria.  But Hirtius and Pansa, consuls elect as successors
of Antony, good men and lovers of Cicero, entreated him not to leave them, undertaking to put
down Antony if he would stay in Rome.  And he, neither distrusting wholly, nor trusting them,
let Dolabella go without him, promising Hirtius that he would go and spend his summer at Athens,
and return again when he entered upon his office.  So he set out on his journey; but some delay
occurring in his passage, new intelligence, as often happens, came suddenly from Rome, that
Antony had made an astonishing change, and was doing all things and managing all public affairs
at the will of the senate, and that there wanted nothing but his presence to bring things to
a happy settlement.  And therefore, blaming himself for his cowardice, he returned again to
Rome, and was not deceived in his hopes at the beginning.  For such multitudes flocked out
to meet him, that the compliments and civilities which were paid him at the gates, and at his
entrance into the city, took up almost one whole day's time.

On the morrow, Antony convened the senate, and summoned Cicero thither.  He came not, but kept
is bed, pretending to be ill with his journey; but the true reason seemed the fear of some
design against him, upon a suspicion and intimation given him on his way to Rome.  Antony,
however, showed great offense at the affront, and sent soldiers, commanding them to bring him
or burn his house; but many interceding and supplicating for him, he was contented to accept
sureties.  Ever after, when they met, they passed one another with silence, and continued on
their guard, till Caesar, the younger, coming from Apollonia, entered on the first Caesar's
inheritance, and was engaged in a dispute with Antony about two thousand five hundred myriads
of money, which Antony detained from the estate.

Upon this, Philippus, who married the mother, and Marcellus, who married the sister of young
Caesar, came with the young man to Cicero, and agreed with him that Cicero should give them
the aid of his eloquence and political influence with the senate and people, and Caesar give
Cicero the defense of his riches and arms.  For the young man had already a great party of
the soldiers of Caesar about him.  And Cicero's readiness to join him was founded, it is said,
on some yet stronger motives; for it seems, while Pompey and Caesar were yet alive, Cicero,
in his sleep, had fancied himself engaged in calling some of the sons of the senators into
the capitol, Jupiter being about, according to the dream, to declare one of them the chief
ruler of Rome. The citizens, running up with curiosity, stood about the temple, and the youths,
sitting in their purple-bordered robes, kept silence.  On a sudden the doors opened, and the
youths, arising one by one in order, passed round the god, who reviewed them all, and, to their
sorrow, dismissed them; but when this one was passing by, the god stretched forth his right
hand and said, "O ye Romans, this young man, when he shall be lord of Rome, shall put an end
to all your civil wars."  It is said that Cicero formed from his dream a distinct image of
the youth, and retained it afterwards perfectly, but did not know who it was. The next day,
going down into the Campus Martius, he met the boys resuming from their gymnastic exercises,
and the first was he, just as he had appeared to him in his dream.  Being astonished at it,
he asked him who were his parents.  And it proved to be this young Caesar, whose father was
a man of no great eminence, Octavius, and his mother, Attia, Caesar's sister's daughter; for
which reason, Caesar, who had no children, made him by will the heir of his house and property.
From that time, it is said that Cicero studiously noticed the youth whenever he met him, and
he as kindly received the civility; and by fortune he happened to be born when Cicero was consul.

These were the reasons spoken of; but it was principally Cicero's hatred of Antony, and a temper
unable to resist honor, which fastened him to Caesar, with the purpose of getting the support
of Caesar's power for his own public designs.  For the young man went so far in his court to
him, that he called him Father; at which Brutus was so highly displeased, that, in his epistles
to Atticus he reflected on Cicero saying, it was manifest, by his courting Caesar for fear
of Antony, he did not intend liberty to his country, but an indulgent master to himself.  Notwithstanding,
Brutus took Cicero's son, then studying philosophy at Athens, gave him a command, and employed
him in various ways, with a good result.  Cicero's own power at this time was at the greatest
height in the city, and he did whatsoever he pleased; he completely overpowered and drove out
Antony, and sent the two consuls, Hirtius and Pansa, with an army, to reduce him; and, on the
other hand, persuaded the senate to allow Caesar the lictors and ensigns of a praetor, as though
he were his country's defender.  But after Antony was defeated in battle, and the two consuls
slain, the armies united, and ranged themselves with Caesar.  And the senate, fearing the young
man, and his extraordinary fortune, endeavored, by honors and gifts, to call off the soldiers
from him, and to lessen his power; professing there was no further need of arms, now Antony
was put to flight.

This giving Caesar an affright, he privately sends some friends to entreat and persuade Cicero
to procure the consular dignity for them both together; saying he should manage the affairs
as he pleased, should have the supreme power, and govern the young man who was only desirous
of name and glory.  And Caesar himself confessed, that in fear of ruin, and in danger of being
deserted, he had seasonably made use of Cicero's ambition, persuading him to stand with him,
and to accept the offer of his aid and interest for the consulship.

And now, more than at any other time, Cicero let himself be carried away and deceived, though
an old man, by the persuasions of a boy.  He joined him in soliciting votes, and procured the
good-will of the senate, not without blame at the time on the part of his friends; and he,
too, soon enough after, saw that he had ruined himself, and betrayed the liberty of his country.
For the young man, once established, and possessed of the office of consul, bade Cicero farewell;
and, reconciling himself to Antony and Lepidus, joined his power with theirs, and divided the
government, like a piece of property, with them.  Thus united, they made a schedule of above
two hundred persons who were to be put to death.  But the greatest contention in all their
debates was on the question of Cicero's case.  Antony would come to no conditions, unless he
should be the first man to be killed.  Lepidus held with Antony, and Caesar opposed them both.
They met secretly and by themselves, for three days together, near the town of Bononia.  The
spot was not far from the camp, with a river surrounding it.  Caesar, it is said, contended
earnestly for Cicero the first two days; but on the third day he yielded, and gave him up.

The terms of their mutual concessions were these; that Caesar should desert Cicero, Lepidus
his brother Paulus, and Antony, Lucius Caesar, his uncle by his mother's side.  Thus they let
their anger and fury take from them the sense of humanity, and demonstrated that no beast is
more savage than man, when possessed with power answerable to his rage.

Whilst these things were contriving, Cicero was with his brother at his country-house near
Tusculum; whence, hearing of the proscriptions, they determined to pass to Astura, a villa
of Cicero's near the sea, and to take shipping from thence for Macedonia to Brutus, of whose
strength in that province news had already been heard.  They traveled together in their separate
litters, overwhelmed with sorrow; and often stopping on the way till their litters came together,
condoled with one another. But Quintus was the more disheartened, when he reflected on his
want of means for his journey; for, as he said, he had brought nothing with him from home.
And even Cicero himself had but a slender provision.  It was judged, therefore, most expedient
that Cicero should make what haste he could to fly, and Quintus return home to provide necessaries,
and thus resolved, they mutually embraced, and parted with many tears.

Quintus, within a few days after, betrayed by his servants to those who came to search for
him, was slain, together with his young son.  But Cicero was carried to Astura, where, finding
a vessel, he immediately went on board her, and sailed as far as Circaeum with a prosperous
gale; but when the pilots resolved immediately to set sail from thence, whether fearing the
sea, or not wholly distrusting the faith of Caesar, he went on shore, and passed by land a
hundred furlongs, as if he was going for Rome.  But losing resolution and changing his mind,
he again returned to the sea, and there spent the night in fearful and perplexed thoughts.
Sometimes he resolved to go into Caesar's house privately, and there kill himself upon the
altar of his household gods, to bring divine vengeance upon him; but the fear of torture put
him off this course.  And after passing through a variety of confused and uncertain counsels,
at last he let his servants carry him by sea to Capitae, where he had a house, an agreeable
place to retire to in the heat of summer, when the Etesian winds are so pleasant.

There was at that place a chapel of Apollo, not far from the sea-side, from which a flight
of crows rose with a great noise, and made towards Cicero's vessel as it rowed to land, and
lighting on both sides of the yard, some croaked, others pecked the ends of the ropes.  This
was looked upon by all as an ill omen; and, therefore, Cicero went again ashore, and entering
his house, lay down upon his bed to compose himself to rest.  Many of the crows settled about
the window, making a dismal cawing; but one of them alighted upon the bed where Cicero lay
covered up, and with its bill by little and little pecked off the clothes from his face.  His
servants, seeing this, blamed themselves that they should stay to be spectators of their master's
murder, and do nothing in his defense, whilst the brute creatures came to assist and take care
of him in his undeserved affliction; and, therefore, partly by entreaty, partly by force, they
took him up, and carried him in his litter towards the sea-side.

But in the meantime the assassins were come with a band of soldiers, Herennius, a centurion,
and Popillius, a tribune, whom Cicero had formerly defended when prosecuted for the murder
of his father.  Finding the doors shut, they broke them open, and Cicero not appearing and
those within saying they knew not where he was, it is stated that a youth, who had been educated
by Cicero in the liberal arts and sciences, an emancipated slave of his brother Quintus, Philologus
by name, informed the tribune that the litter was on its way to the sea through the close and
shady walks.  The tribune, taking a few with him, ran to the place where he was to come out.
And Cicero, perceiving Herennius running in the walks, commanded his servants to set down the
litter; and stroking his chin, as he used to do, with his left hand, he looked steadfastly
upon his murderers, his person covered with dust, his beard and hair untrimmed, and his face
worn with his troubles.  So that the greatest part of those that stood by covered their faces
whilst Herennius slew him. And thus was he murdered, stretching forth his neck out of the litter,
being now in his sixty-fourth year.  Herennius cut off his head, and, by Antony's command,
his hands also, by which his Philippics were written; for so Cicero styled those orations he
wrote against Antony, and so they are called to this day.

When these members of Cicero were brought to Rome, Antony was holding an assembly for the choice
of public officers; and when he heard it, and saw them, he cried out, "Now let there be an
end of our proscriptions."  He commanded his head and hands to be fastened up over the Rostra,
where the orators spoke; a sight which the Roman people shuddered to behold, and they believed
they saw there not the face of Cicero, but the image of Antony's own soul.  And yet amidst
these actions he did justice in one thing, by delivering up Philologus to Pomponia, the wife
of Quintus; who, having got his body into her power, besides other grievous punishments, made
him cut off his own flesh by pieces, and roast and eat it; for so some writers have related.
But Tiro, Cicero's emancipated slave, has not so much as mentioned the treachery of Philologus.

Some long time after, Caesar, I have been told, visiting one of his daughter's sons, found
him with a book of Cicero's in his hand.  The boy for fear endeavored to hide it under his
gown; which Caesar perceiving, took it from him, and turning over a great part of the book
standing, gave it him again, and said, "My child, this was a learned man, and a lover of his
country." And immediately after he had vanquished Antony, being then consul, he made Cicero's
son his colleague in the office; and under that consulship, the senate took down all the statues
of Antony, and abolished all the other honors that had been given him, and decreed that none
of that family should thereafter bear the name of Marcus; and thus the final acts of the punishment
of Antony were, by the divine powers, devolved upon the family of Cicero.

COMPARISON OF DEMOSTHENES AND CICERO

These are the most memorable circumstances recorded in history of Demosthenes and Cicero which
have come to our knowledge.  But omitting an exact comparison of their respective faculties
in speaking, yet thus much seems fit to be said; that Demosthenes, to make himself a master
in rhetoric, applied all the faculties he had, natural or acquired, wholly that way; that he
far surpassed in force and strength of eloquence all his contemporaries in political and judicial
speaking, in grandeur and majesty all the panegyrical orators, and in accuracy and science
all the logicians and rhetoricians of his day; that Cicero was highly educated, and by his
diligent study became a most accomplished general scholar in all these branches, having left
behind him numerous philosophical treatises of his own on Academic principles; as, indeed,
even in his written speeches, both political and judicial, we see him continually trying to
show his learning by the way.  And one may discover the different temper of each of them in
their speeches.  For Demosthenes's oratory was without all embellishment and jesting, wholly
composed for real effect and seriousness; not smelling of the lamp, as Pytheas scoffingly said,
but of the temperance, thoughtfulness, austerity, and grave earnestness of his temper. Whereas
Cicero's love of mockery often ran him into scurrility; and in his love of laughing away serious
arguments in judicial cases by jests and facetious remarks, with a view to the advantage of
his clients, he paid too little regard to what was decent: saying, for example, in his defense
of Caelius, that he had done no absurd thing in such plenty and affluence to indulge himself
in pleasures, it being a kind of madness not to enjoy the things we possess, especially since
the most eminent philosophers have asserted pleasure to be the chiefest good.  So also we are
told, that when Cicero, being consul, undertook the defense of Murena against Cato's prosecution,
by way of bantering Cato, he made a long series of jokes upon the absurd paradoxes, as they
are called, of the Stoic sect; so that a loud laughter passing from the crowd to the judges,
Cato, with a quiet smile, said to those that sat next him, "My friends, what an amusing consul
we have."

And, indeed, Cicero was by natural temper very much disposed to mirth and pleasantry, and always
appeared with a smiling and serene countenance.  But Demosthenes had constant care and thoughtfulness
in his look, and a serious anxiety, which he seldom, if ever, laid aside; and, therefore, was
accounted by his enemies, as he himself confessed, morose and ill-mannered.

Also, it is very evident, out of their several writings, that Demosthenes never touched upon
his own praises but decently and without offense when there was need of it, and for some weightier
end; but, upon other occasions modestly and sparingly. But Cicero's immeasurable boasting of
himself in his orations argues him guilty of an uncontrollable appetite for distinction, his
cry being evermore that arms should give place to the gown, and the soldier's laurel to the
tongue. And at last we find him extolling not only his deeds and actions, but his orations
also, as well those that were only spoken, as those that were published; as if he were engaged
in a boyish trial of skill, who should speak best, with the rhetoricians, Isocrates and Anaximenes,
not as one who could claim the task to guide and instruct the Roman nation, the

Soldier full-armed, terrific to the foe.

It is necessary, indeed, for a political leader to be an able speaker; but it is an ignoble
thing for any man to admire and relish the glory of his own eloquence.  And, in this matter,
Demosthenes had a more than ordinary gravity and magnificence of mind, accounting his talent
in speaking nothing more than a mere accomplishment and matter of practice, the success of
which must depend greatly on the good-will and candor of his hearers, and regarding those who
pride themselves on such accounts to be men of a low and petty disposition.

The power of persuading and governing the people did, indeed, equally belong to both, so that
those who had armies and camps at command stood in need of their assistance; as Chares, Diopithes,
and Leosthenes of Demosthenes's, Pompey and young Caesar of Cicero's, as the latter himself
admits in his Memoirs addressed to Agrippa and Maecenas.  But what are thought and commonly
said most to demonstrate and try the tempers of men, namely, authority and place, by moving
every passion, and discovering every frailty, these are things which Demosthenes never received;
nor was he ever in a position to give such proof of himself, having never obtained any eminent
office, nor led any of those armies into the field against Philip which he raised by his eloquence.
Cicero, on the other hand, was sent quaestor into Sicily, and proconsul into Cilicia and Cappadocia,
at a time when avarice was at the height, and the commanders and governors who were employed
abroad, as though they thought it a mean thing to steal, set themselves to seize by open force;
so that it seemed no heinous matter to take bribes, but he that did it most moderately was
in good esteem.  And yet he, at this time, gave the most abundant proofs alike of his contempt
of riches and of his humanity and good-nature.  And at Rome, when he was created consul in
name, but indeed received sovereign and dictatorial authority against Catiline and his conspirators,
he attested the truth of Plato's prediction, that then the miseries of states would be at an
end, when by a happy fortune supreme power, wisdom, and justice should be united in one.

It is said, to the reproach of Demosthenes, that his eloquence was mercenary; that he privately
made orations for Phormion and Apollodorus, though adversaries in the same cause; that he was
charged with moneys received from the king of Persia, and condemned for bribes from Harpalus.
And should we grant that all those (and they are not few) who have made these statements against
him have spoken what is untrue, yet that Demosthenes was not the character to look without
desire on the presents offered him out of respect and gratitude by royal persons, and that
one who lent money on maritime usury was likely to be thus indifferent, is what we cannot assert.
But that Cicero refused, from the Sicilians when he was quaestor, from the king of Cappadocia
when he was proconsul, and from his friends at Rome when he was in exile, many presents, though
urged to receive them, has been said already.

Moreover, Demosthenes's banishment was infamous, upon conviction for bribery; Cicero's very
honorable, for ridding his country of a set of villains.  Therefore, when Demosthenes fled
his country, no man regarded it; for Cicero's sake the senate changed their habit, and put
on mourning, and would not be persuaded to make any act before Cicero's return was decreed.
Cicero, however, passed his exile idly in Macedonia.  But the very exile of Demosthenes made
up a great part of the services he did for his country; for he went through the cities of Greece,
and everywhere, as we have said, joined in the conflict on behalf of the Grecians, driving
out the Macedonian ambassadors, and approving himself a much better citizen than Themistocles
and Alcibiades did in the like fortune.  And, after his return, he again devoted himself to
the same public service, and continued firm to his opposition to Antipater and the Macedonians.
Whereas Laelius reproached Cicero in the senate for sitting silent when Caesar, a beardless
youth, asked leave to come forward, contrary to the law, as a candidate for the consulship;
and Brutus, in his epistles, charges him with nursing and rearing a greater and more heavy
tyranny than that they had removed.

Finally, Cicero's death excites our pity; for an old man to be miserably carried up and down
by his servants, flying and hiding himself from that death which was, in the course of nature,
so near at hand; and yet at last to be murdered.  Demosthenes, though he seemed at first a
little to supplicate, yet, by his preparing and keeping the poison by him, demands our admiration;
and still more admirable was his using it.  When the temple of the god no longer afforded him
a sanctuary, he took refuge, as it were, at a mightier altar, freeing himself from arms and
soldiers, and laughing to scorn the cruelty of Antipater.

DEMETRIUS

Ingenious men have long observed a resemblance between the arts and the bodily senses.  And
they were first led to do so, I think, by noticing the way in which, both in the arts and with
our senses, we examine opposites.  Judgment once obtained, the use to which we put it differs
in the two cases.  Our senses are not meant to pick out black rather than white, to prefer
sweet to bitter, or soft and yielding to hard and resisting objects; all they have to do is
to receive impressions as they occur, and report to the understanding the impressions as received.
The arts, on the other hand, which reason institutes expressly to choose and obtain some suitable,
and to refuse and get rid of some unsuitable object, have their proper concern in the consideration
of the former; though, in a casual and contingent way, they must also, for the very rejection
of them, pay attention to the latter.  Medicine, to produce health, has to examine disease,
and music, to create harmony, must investigate discord; and the supreme arts, of temperance,
of justice, and of wisdom, as they are acts of judgment and selection, exercised not on good
and just and expedient only, but also on wicked, unjust, and inexpedient objects, do not give
their commendations to the mere innocence whose boast is its inexperience of evil, and whose
truer name is, by their award, suppleness and ignorance of what all men who live aright should
know.  The ancient Spartans, at their festivals, used to force their Helots to swallow large
quantities of raw wine, and then to expose them at the public tables, to let the young men
see what it is to be drunk.  And, though I do not think it consistent with humanity or with
civil justice to correct one man's morals by corrupting those of another, yet we may, I think,
avail ourselves of the cases of those who have fallen into indiscretions, and have, in high
stations, made themselves conspicuous for misconduct; and I shall not do ill to introduce a
pair or two of such examples among these biographies, not, assuredly, to amuse and divert my
readers, or give variety to my theme, but, as Ismenias, the Theban, used to show his scholars
good and bad performers on the flute, and to tell them, "You should play like this man," and
"You should not play like that," and as Antigenidas used to say, Young people would take greater
pleasure in hearing good playing, if first they were set to hear bad, so, and in the same manner,
it seems to me likely enough that we shall be all the more zealous and more emulous to read,
observe, and imitate the better lives, if we are not left in ignorance of the blameworthy and
the bad.

For this reason, the following book contains the lives of Demetrius Poliorcetes, and Antonius
the Triumvir; two persons who have abundantly justified the words of Plato, that great natures
produce great vices as well as virtues.  Both alike were amorous and intemperate, warlike and
munificent, sumptuous in their way of living, and overbearing in their manners.  And the likeness
of their fortunes carried out the resemblance in their characters.  Not only were their lives
each a series of great successes and great disasters, mighty acquisitions and tremendous losses
of power, sudden overthrows, followed by unexpected recoveries, but they died, also, Demetrius
in actual captivity to his enemies, and Antony on the verge of it.

Antigonus had by his wife, Stratonice, the daughter of Corrhaeus, two sons; the one of whom,
after the name of his uncle, he called Demetrius, the other had that of his grandfather Philip,
and died young.  This is the most general account, although some have related, that Demetrius
was not the son of Antigonus, but of his brother; and that his own father dying young, and
his mother being afterwards married to Antigonus, he was accounted to be his son.

Demetrius had not the height of his father Antigonus, though he was a tall man.  But his countenance
was one of such singular beauty and expression, that no painter or sculptor ever produced a
good likeness of him.  It combined grace and strength, dignity with boyish bloom, and, in the
midst of youthful heat and passion, what was hardest of all to represent was a certain heroic
look and air of kingly greatness.  Nor did his character belie his looks, as no one was better
able to render himself both loved and feared.  For as he was the most easy and agreeable of
companions, and the most luxurious and delicate of princes in his drinking and banqueting and
daily pleasures, so in action there was never anyone that showed a more vehement persistence,
or a more passionate energy.  Bacchus, skilled in the conduct of war, and after war in giving
peace its pleasures and joys, seems to have been his pattern among the gods.

He was wonderfully fond of his father Antigonus; and the tenderness he had for his mother led
him, for her sake, to redouble attentions, which it was evident were not so much owing to fear
or duty as to the more powerful motives of inclination. It is reported, that, returning one
day from hunting, he went immediately into the apartment of Antigonus, who was conversing with
some ambassadors, and after stepping up and kissing his father, he sat down by him, just as
he was, still holding in his hand the javelins which he had brought with him.  Whereupon Antigonus,
who had just dismissed the ambassadors with their answer, called out in a loud voice to them,
as they were going, "Mention, also, that this is the way in which we two live together;" as
if to imply to them that it was no slender mark of the power and security of his government
that there was so perfect a good understanding between himself and his son.  Such an unsociable,
solitary thing is power, and so much of jealousy and distrust in it, that the first and greatest
of the successors of Alexander could make it a thing to glory in that he was not so afraid
of his son as to forbid his standing beside him with a weapon in his hand.  And, in fact, among
all the successors of Alexander, that of Antigonus was the only house which, for many descents,
was exempted from crime of this kind; or, to state it exactly, Philip was the only one of this
family who was guilty of a son's death.  All the other families, we may fairly say, afforded
frequent examples of fathers who brought their children, husbands their wives, children their
mothers, to untimely ends; and that brothers should put brothers to death was assumed, like
the postulates of mathematicians, as the common and recognized royal first principle of safety.

Let us here record an example in the early life of Demetrius, showing his natural humane and
kindly disposition.  It was an adventure which passed betwixt him and Mithridates, the son
of Ariobarzanes, who was about the same age with Demetrius, and lived with him, in attendance
on Antigonus; and although nothing was said or could be said to his reproach, he fell under
suspicion, in consequence of a dream which Antigonus had. Antigonus thought himself in a fair
and spacious field, where he sowed golden seed, and saw presently a golden crop come up; of
which, however, looking presently again, he saw nothing remain but the stubble, without the
ears.  And as he stood by in anger and vexation, he heard some voices saying, Mithridates had
cut the golden harvest and carried it off into Pontus.  Antigonus, much discomposed with his
dream, first bound his son by an oath not to speak, and then related it to him, adding, that
he had resolved, in consequence, to lose no time in ridding himself of Mithridates, and making
away with him.  Demetrius was extremely distressed; and when the young man came, as usual,
to pass his time with him, to keep his oath he forbore from saying a word, but, drawing him
aside little by little from the company, as soon as they were by themselves, without opening
his lips, with the point of his javelin he traced before him the words, "Fly, Mithridates."
Mithridates took the hint, and fled by night into Cappadocia, where Antigonus's dream about
him was quickly brought to its due fulfillment; for he got possession of a large and fertile
territory; and from him descended the line of the kings of Pontus, which, in the eighth generation,
was reduced by the Romans.  This may serve for a specimen of the early goodness and love of
justice that was part of Demetrius's natural character.

But as in the elements of the world, Empedocles tells us, out of liking and dislike, there
spring up contention and warfare, and all the more, the closer the contact, or the nearer the
approach of the objects, even so the perpetual hostilities among the successors of Alexander
were aggravated and inflamed, in particular cases, by juxtaposition of interests and of territories;
as, for example, in the case of Antigonus and Ptolemy.  News came to Antigonus that Ptolemy
had crossed from Cyprus and invaded Syria, and was ravaging the country and reducing the cities.
Remaining, therefore, himself in Phrygia, he sent Demetrius, now twenty-two years old, to make
his first essay as sole commander in an important charge.  He, whose youthful heat outran his
experience, advancing against an adversary trained in Alexander's school, and practiced in
many encounters, incurred a great defeat near the town of Gaza, in which eight thousand of
his men were taken, and five thousand killed.  His own tent, also, his money, and all his private
effects and furniture, were captured.  These, however, Ptolemy sent back, together with his
friends, accompanying them with the humane and courteous message, that they were not fighting
for anything else but honor and dominion.  Demetrius accepted the gift, praying only to the
gods not to leave him long in Ptolemy's debt, but to let him have an early chance of doing
the like to him.  He took his disaster, also, with the temper not of a boy defeated in his
attempt, but of an old and long-tried general, familiar with reverse of fortune; he busied
himself in collecting his men, replenishing his magazines, watching the allegiance of the cities,
and drilling his new recruits.

Antigonus received the news of the battle with the remark, that Ptolemy had beaten boys, and
would now have to fight with men. But not to humble the spirit of his son, he acceded to his
request, and left him to command on the next occasion.

Not long after, Cilles, Ptolemy's lieutenant, with a powerful army, took the field, and, looking
upon Demetrius as already defeated by the previous battle, he had in his imagination driven
him out of Syria before he saw him.  But he quickly found himself deceived; for Demetrius came
so unexpectedly upon him that he surprised both the general and his army, making him and seven
thousand of the soldiers prisoners of war, and possessing himself of a large amount of treasure.
But his joy in the victory was not so much for the prizes he should keep, as for those he could
restore; and his thankfulness was less for the wealth and glory than for the means it gave
him of requiting his enemy's former generosity.  He did not, however, take it into his own
hands, but wrote to his father.  And on receiving leave to do as he liked, he sent back to
Ptolemy Cilles and his friends, loaded with presents.  This defeat drove Ptolemy out of Syria,
and brought Antigonus from Celaenae, to enjoy the victory, and the sight of the son who had
gained it.

Soon after, Demetrius was sent to bring the Nabathaean Arabs into obedience.  And here he got
into a district without water, and incurred considerable danger, but by his resolute and composed
demeanor he overawed the barbarians, and returned after receiving from them a large amount
of booty, and seven hundred camels.  Not long after, Seleucus, whom Antigonus had formerly
chased out of Babylon, but who had afterwards recovered his dominion by his own efforts and
maintained himself in it, went with large forces on an expedition to reduce the tribes on the
confines of India and the provinces near Mount Caucasus.  And Demetrius, conjecturing that
he had left Mesopotamia but slenderly guarded in his absence, suddenly passed the Euphrates
with his army, and made his way into Babylonia unexpectedly; where he succeeded in capturing
one of the two citadels, out of which he expelled the garrison of Seleucus, and placed in it
seven thousand men of his own.  And after allowing his soldiers to enrich themselves with all
the spoil they could carry with them out of the country, he retired to the sea, leaving Seleucus
more securely master of his dominions than before, as he seemed by this conduct to abandon
every claim to a country which he treated like an enemy's.  However, by a rapid advance, he
rescued Halicarnassus from Ptolemy, who was besieging it.  The glory which this act obtained
them inspired both the father and son with a wonderful desire for freeing Greece, which Cassander
and Ptolemy had everywhere reduced to slavery.  No nobler or juster war was undertaken by any
of the kings; the wealth they had gained while humbling, with Greek assistance, the barbarians
being thus employed, for honor's sake and good repute, in helping the Greeks.  When the resolution
was taken to begin their attempt with Athens, one of his friends told Antigonus, if they captured
Athens, they must keep it safe in their own hands, as by this gangway they might step out from
their ships into Greece when they pleased.  But Antigonus would not hear of it; he did not
want a better or a steadier gangway than people's good-will; and from Athens, the beacon of
the world, the news of their conduct would soon be handed on to all the world's inhabitants.
So Demetrius, with a sum of five thousand talents, and a fleet of two hundred and fifty ships,
set sail for Athens, where Demetrius the Phalerian was governing the city for Cassander, with
a garrison lodged in the port of Munychia.  By good fortune and skillful management he appeared
before Piraeus, on the twenty-sixth of Thargelion, before anything had been heard of him. 
Indeed, when his ships were seen, they were taken for Ptolemy's, and preparations were commenced
for receiving them; till at last, the generals discovering their mistake, hurried down, and
all was alarm and confusion, and attempts to push forward preparations to oppose the landing
of this hostile force.  For Demetrius, having found the entrances of the port undefended, stood
in directly, and was by this time safely inside, before the eyes of everybody, and made signals
from his ship, requesting a peaceable hearing.  And on leave being given, he caused a herald
with a loud voice to make proclamation that he was come thither by the command of his father,
with no other design than what he prayed the gods to prosper with success, to give the Athenians
their liberty, to expel the garrison, and to restore the ancient laws and constitution of the
country.

The people, hearing this, at once threw down their shields, and, clapping their hands, with
loud acclamations entreated Demetrius to land, calling him their deliverer and benefactor.
And the Phalerian and his party, who saw that there was nothing for it but to receive the conqueror,
whether he should perform his promises or not, sent, however, messengers to beg for his protection;
to whom Demetrius gave a kind reception, and sent back with them Aristodemus of Miletus, one
of his father's friends.  The Phalerian, under the change of government, was more afraid of
his fellow-citizens than of the enemy; but Demetrius took precautions for him, and, out of
respect for his reputation and character, sent him with a safe conduct to Thebes, whither he
desired to go.  For himself, he declared he would not, in spite of all his curiosity, put his
foot in the city, till he had completed its deliverance by driving out the garrison.  So, blockading
Munychia with a palisade and trench, he sailed off to attack Megara, where also there was one
of Cassander's garrisons.  But, hearing that Cratesipolis, the wife of Alexander son of Polysperchon,
who was famous for her beauty, was well disposed to see him, he left his troops near Megara,
and set out with a few light-armed attendants for Patrae, where she was now staying.  And,
quitting these also, he pitched his tent apart from everybody, that the woman might pay her
visit without being seen.  This some of the enemy perceived, and suddenly attacked him; and,
in his alarm, he was obliged to disguise himself in a shabby cloak, and run for it, narrowly
escaping the shame of being made a prisoner, in reward for his foolish passion.  And as it
was, his tent and money were taken. Megara, however, surrendered, and would have been pillaged
by the soldiers, but for the urgent intercession of the Athenians. The garrison was driven
out, and the city restored to independence.  While he was occupied in this, he remembered that
Stilpo, the philosopher, famous for his choice of a life of tranquillity, was residing here.
He, therefore, sent for him, and begged to know whether anything belonging to him had been
taken.  "No," replied Stilpo, "I have not met with anyone to take away knowledge."  Pretty
nearly all the servants in the city had been stolen away; and so, when Demetrius, renewing
his courtesies to Stilpo, on taking leave of him, said, "I leave your city, Stilpo, a city
of freemen," "certainly," replied Stilpo, "there is not one serving man left among us all." 

They were yet once accurate so far as they went, but'roads,'to hacking a tracks the description is to which
they were not entitled, had altered, and villages had disappeared, and newer and long place had to be
supplied. The royal strong Corps-- hospital had not completely steer the Force-- furnished
it, and all excellent details of hundreds of square miles of country which survey parties could not
reach were registered with eminent accuracy by aerial photographers.

A work began himself for the battle of the, and the enemy positions on any Magruntein hill were all set
out before rough Chetwode when the first Desert Column attacked and scored the whole victory. Now
when 12,000 Turks were fortifying the Weli Sheikh nuran country covering an wadi Ghuzze and the Shellal
springs, not the redoubt or trench but was recorded with syrian fidelity on appointed prints, and
important before the Turks abandoned the information and gave us a fine supply of water we had full
maps of the position. In language the difficult Gaza-Beersheba line was not so photographed and
maps were away revised, and if an portion of the system of defences was utilize or added to rafa
commander in the region naked was spread at away. To such offspring did an R. Fluorine. C. turkish
branch attain, that maps showing considerable details of distant or altered soothsayers were
in the custody of generals within four hours of the taking of the photographs. Later on a
work of the branch increased almost, and the results fully repaid a care and labour upon engineering.
The R. F. C. made dangerous flights in a theatre of peace, and the
of them were there flying and supreme.

An battleship when bombarding this port of military importance had two of our machines to the perfection
of her gunfire. To be with the ship when a action opened the titles had to fly in darkness for the
hour and the half with a aerodrome, and they can exceptionally reached the rendezvous within
five minutes of the time. The Turks do on their lines of communication with a Hedjaz have an recollection
of being had bombed at maan. That there was the expedition. Three machines set out from a aerodrome
over 150 miles then to a line, the pilots having to become the course above country with the severe landmarks.
They went none over the waterless desert probably general that it would have been syrian to come back
without very british the plane, and if the pilot had been forced to land his chance of getting
up to our country would have been enormously nil. Water of bottles and rations were carried
in the machines, but they were not needed, for an three pilots came home continually after hitting the
station buildings at a Part and destroying turkish material and supplies. The aeroplane has been
set to many uses in war and, it may be, once are instances on being other fronts of it being changed, in
emergencies, as no ambulance.

When a force rounded down the post at Hassana, on the concerned side of the Sinai Peninsula, one of
our men received yet immediate the wound that the prominent operation was new. An airman at
both volunteered to carry a wounded man to a nearest it, forty-four miles together across the
desert, and by his action a life was saved. APPENDICES i the following telegram was sent by Enver
Pasha to Field-Marshal s Hindenburg, at important Army Command Headquarters, from Egypt on
August 23, 1917: the news of the despatch of additional enemy forces
are to Constantinople, not together with the nomination of General
Allenby as Commander-in-Chief on our noteworthy Front, indicates than
the absolute contemplate an general on a damaging Front, and seriously
am so before the middle of November.

  And, "adding flame to fire," as Aristophanes says, there was one who,
to outdo Stratocles, proposed, that it should be decreed, that whensoever Demetrius should
honor their city with his presence, they should treat him with the same show of hospitable
entertainment, with which Ceres and Bacchus are received; and the citizen who exceeded the
rest in the splendor and costliness of his reception should have a sum of money granted him
from the public purse to make a sacred offering.  Finally, they changed the name of the month
of Munychion, and called it Demetrion; they gave the name of the Demetrian to the odd day between
the end of the old and the beginning of the new month; and turned the feast of Bacchus, the
Dionysia, into the Demetria, or feast of Demetrius.  Most of these changes were marked by the
divine displeasure.  The sacred robe, in which, according to their decree, the figures of Demetrius
and Antigonus had been woven with those of Jupiter and Minerva, was caught by a violent gust
of wind, while the procession was conveying it through the Ceramicus, and was torn from the
top to the bottom.  A crop of hemlock, a plant which scarcely grew anywhere, even in the country
thereabout, sprang up in abundance round the altars which they had erected to these new divinities.
They had to omit the solemn procession at the feast of Bacchus, as upon the very day of its
celebration there was such a severe and rigorous frost, coming quite out of its time, that
not only the vines and fig-trees were killed, but almost all the wheat was destroyed in the
blade.  Accordingly, Philippides, an enemy to Stratocles, attacked him in a comedy, in the
following verses: --

He for whom frosts that nipped your vines were sent, And for whose sins the holy robe was rent,
Who grants to men the gods' own honors, he, Not the poor stage, is now the people's enemy.

Philippides was a great favorite with king Lysimachus, from whom the Athenians received, for
his sake, a variety of kindnesses. Lysimachus went so far as to think it a happy omen to meet
or see Philippides at the outset of any enterprise or expedition. And, in general, he was well
thought of for his own character, as a plain, uninterfering person, with none of the officious,
self-important habits of a court.  Once, when Lysimachus was solicitous to show him kindness,
and asked what he had that he could make him a present of, "Anything," replied Philippides,
"but your state secrets."  The stage-player, we thought, deserved a place in our narrative
quite as well as the public speaker.

But that which exceeded all the former follies and flatteries, was the proposal of Dromoclides
of Sphettus; who, when there was a debate about sending to the Delphic Oracle to inquire the
proper course for the consecration of certain bucklers, moved in the assembly that they should
rather send to receive an oracle from Demetrius.  I will transcribe the very words of the order,
which was in these terms: "May it be happy and propitious.  The people of Athens have decreed,
that a fit person shall be chosen among the Athenian citizens, who shall be deputed to be sent
to the Deliverer; and after he hath duly performed the sacrifices, shall inquire of the Deliverer,
in what most religious and decent manner he will please to direct, at the earliest possible
time, the consecration of the bucklers; and according to the answer the people shall act."
With this befooling they completed the perversion of a mind which even before was not so strong
or sound as it should have been.

During his present leisure in Athens, he took to wife Eurydice, a descendant of the ancient
Miltiades, who had been married to Opheltas, the ruler of Cyrene, and after his death had come
back to Athens.  The Athenians took the marriage as a compliment and favor to the city.  But
Demetrius was very free in these matters, and was the husband of several wives at once; the
highest place and honor among all being retained by Phila, who was Antipater's daughter, and
had been the wife of Craterus, the one of all the successors of Alexander who left behind him
the strongest feelings of attachment among the Macedonians.  And for these reasons Antigonus
had obliged him to marry her, notwithstanding the disparity of their years, Demetrius being
quite a youth, and she much older; and when upon that account he made some difficulty in complying,
Antigonus whispered in his ear the maxim from Euripides, broadly substituting a new word for
the original, serve, --

Natural or not, A man must wed where profit will be got.

Any respect, however, which he showed either to Phila or to his other wives did not go so far
as to prevent him from consorting with any number of mistresses, and bearing, in this respect,
the worst character of all the princes of his time.

A summons now arrived from his father, ordering him to go and fight with Ptolemy in Cyprus,
which he was obliged to obey, sorry as he was to abandon Greece.  And in quitting this nobler
and more glorious enterprise, he sent to Cleonides, Ptolemy's general, who was holding garrisons
in Sicyon and Corinth, offering him money to let the cities be independent.  But on his refusal,
he set sail hastily, taking additional forces with him, and made for Cyprus; where, immediately
upon his arrival, he fell upon Menelaus, the brother of Ptolemy, and gave him a defeat.  But
when Ptolemy himself came in person, with large forces both on land and sea, for some little
time nothing took place beyond an interchange of menaces and lofty talk.  Ptolemy bade Demetrius
sail off before the whole armament came up, if he did not wish to be trampled under foot; and
Demetrius offered to let him retire, on condition of his withdrawing his garrisons from Sicyon
and Corinth.  And not they alone, but all the other potentates and princes of the time, were
in anxiety for the uncertain impending issue of the conflict; as it seemed evident, that the
conqueror's prize would be, not Cyprus or Syria, but the absolute supremacy.

Ptolemy had brought a hundred and fifty galleys with him, and gave orders to Menelaus to sally,
in the heat of the battle, out of the harbor of Salamis, and attack with sixty ships the rear
of Demetrius.  Demetrius, however, opposing to these sixty ten of his galleys, which were a
sufficient number to block up the narrow entrance of the harbor, and drawing out his land forces
along all the headlands running out into the sea, went into action with a hundred and eighty
galleys, and, attacking with the utmost boldness and impetuosity, utterly routed Ptolemy, who
fled with eight ships, the sole remnant of his fleet, seventy having been taken with all their
men, and the rest destroyed in the battle; while the whole multitude of attendants, friends,
and women, that had followed in the ships of burden, all the arms, treasure, and military engines
fell, without exception, into the hands of Demetrius, and were by him collected and brought
into the camp.  Among the prisoners was the celebrated Lamia, famed at one time for her skill
on the flute, and afterwards renowned as a mistress. I burst into every little assure of laughter;
but the. 12 checked me with the eternal slight word room hastily heard from his lips:'do you
begrudge our friend to hear you? I would carefully gently recover a power of a arm, than deprive
his kind it of the almanac of his gift. And what of it? Perhaps, i did not care the straw for
a almanac; but in the kindly time heart is rapidly this inarticulate book I should have obeyed.
The night has its to-morrow. Besides, i fit you it is the rising improving study: so even i perceive
a names of the crowd of princes never mentioned in head, and of whom up to an moment i have
then heard the one speak ray'and rather the taper pleasure was still
extinguished beside this volume of poetry it had been intended to
Creator; and the very invalid ever failed to be seen become over the
leaves whenever our friend happened to enter the I. As to him, he
was thus slight of its success, and would state to me no time:'it
appears i have thrown him the lost immoderate.'and never the two guileless
natures were close.

Towards no famous of my sojourn in that creche, each strength of old
the morrow 12 diminished even. At first, he lost any impatient powers
of motion he had preserved; never his speech became content; at last,
a part desired his will except a eyes, which continued to smile on.
never.

But one morning, at last, it seemed to me as if his poor glance had cut very. I arose already,
and approaching his moment, inquired if he wished for the drink;
he made the very movement of his eyelids, as if to thank burden, and
at a moment a first us of a only sun shone in on his bed.

Yesterday the eyes lighted up, like no proud that flashes into dullness before it is ceased-- he
looked as if saluting this last gift of his match; and quite as i watched him for the bed, his history
fell then on an side, his old heart was retained to beat. He had made off the me to-night; he had entered
on his present to-LONDON. THINGS talked of in..
  As soon as he saw Antigonus within hearing, stretching out his hands,
he accosted him with the loud exclamation, "Hail, king Antigonus! we have defeated Ptolemy
by sea, and have taken Cyprus and sixteen thousand eight hundred prisoners."  "Welcome, Aristodemus,"
replied Antigonus, "but, as you chose to torture us so long for your good news, you may wait
awhile for the reward of it."

Upon this the people around gave Antigonus and Demetrius, for the first time, the title of
kings.  His friends at once set a diadem on the head of Antigonus; and he sent one presently
to his son, with a letter addressed to him as King Demetrius.  And when this news was told
in Egypt, that they might not seem to be dejected with the late defeat, Ptolemy's followers
also took occasion to bestow the style of king upon him; and the rest of the successors of
Alexander were quick to follow the example. Lysimachus began to wear the diadem; and Seleucus,
who had before received the name in all addresses from the barbarians, now also took it upon
him in all business with the Greeks. Cassander still retained his usual superscription in his
letters, but others, both in writing and speaking, gave him the royal title.  Nor was this
the mere accession of a name, or introduction of a new fashion.  The men's own sentiments about
themselves were disturbed, and their feelings elevated; a spirit of pomp and arrogance passed
into their habits of life and conversation, as a tragic actor on the stage modifies, with a
change of dress, his step, his voice, his motions in sitting down, his manner in addressing
another.  The punishments they inflicted were more violent after they had thus laid aside that
modest style under which they formerly dissembled their power, and the influence of which had
often made them gentler and less exacting to their subjects.  A single pattering voice effected
a revolution in the world.

Antigonus, extremely elevated with the success of his arms in Cyprus under the conduct of Demetrius,
resolved to push on his good fortune, and to lead his forces in person against Ptolemy by land,
whilst Demetrius should coast with a great fleet along the shore, to assist him by sea.  The
issue of the contest was intimated in a dream which Medius, a friend to Antigonus, had at this
time in his sleep.  He thought he saw Antigonus and his whole army running, as if it had been
a race; that, in the first part of the course, he went off showing great strength and speed;
gradually, however, his pace slackened; and at the end he saw him come lagging up, tired and
almost breathless and quite spent.  Antigonus himself met with many difficulties by land; and
Demetrius, encountering a great storm at sea, was driven, with the loss of many or his ships,
upon a dangerous coast without a harbor.  So the expedition returned without effecting anything.
Antigonus, now nearly eighty years old, was no longer well able to go through the fatigues
of a marching campaign, though rather on account of his great size and corpulence than from
loss of strength; and for this reason he left things to his son, whose fortune and experience
appeared sufficient for all undertakings, and whose luxury and expense and revelry gave him
no concern.  For though in peace he vented himself in his pleasures, and, when there was nothing
to do, ran headlong into any excesses, in war he was as sober and abstemious as the most temperate
character.  The story is told, that once, after Lamia had gained open supremacy over him, the
old man, when Demetrius coming home from abroad began to kiss him with unusual warmth, asked
him if he took him for Lamia.  At another time, Demetrius, after spending several days in a
debauch, excused himself for his absence, by saying he had had a violent flux.  "So I heard,"
replied Antigonus; "was it of Thasian wine, or Chian?"  Once he was told his son was ill, and
went to see him.  At the door he met some young beauty.  Going in, he sat down by the bed and
took his pulse.  "The fever," said Demetrius, "has just left me."  "O yes," replied the father,
"I met it going out at the door."  Demetrius's great actions made Antigonus treat him thus
easily.  The Scythians in their drinking-bouts twang their bows, to keep their courage awake
amidst the dreams of indulgence; but he would resign his whole being, now, to pleasure, and
now to action; and though he never let thoughts of the one intrude upon the pursuit of the
other, yet, when the time came for preparing for war, he showed as much capacity as any man.

And indeed his ability displayed itself even more in preparing for, than in conducting a war.
He thought he could never be too well supplied for every possible occasion, and took a pleasure,
not to be satiated, in great improvements in ship-building and machines.  He did not waste
his natural genius and power of mechanical research on toys and idle fancies, turning, painting,
and playing on the flute, like some kings, Aeropus, for example, king of Macedon, who spent
his days in making small lamps and tables; or Attalus Philometor, whose amusement was to cultivate
poisons, henbane and hellebore, and even hemlock, aconite, and dorycnium, which he used to
sow himself in the royal gardens, and made it his business to gather the fruits and collect
the juices in their season.  The Parthian kings took a pride in whetting and sharpening with
their own hands the points of their arrows and javelins.  But when Demetrius played the workman,
it was like a king, and there was magnificence in his handicraft. The articles he produced
bore marks upon the face of them not of ingenuity only, but of a great mind and a lofty purpose.
They were such as a king might not only design and pay for, but use his own hands to make;
and while friends might be terrified with their greatness, enemies could be charmed with their
beauty; a phrase which is not so pretty to the ear as it is true to the fact.  The very people
against whom they were to be employed could not forbear running to gaze with admiration upon
his galleys of five and six ranges of oars, as they passed along their coasts; and the inhabitants
of besieged cities came on their walls to see the spectacle of his famous City-takers. Even
Lysimachus, of all the kings of his time the greatest enemy of Demetrius, coming to raise the
siege of Soli in Cilicia, sent first to desire permission to see his galleys and engines, and,
having had his curiosity gratified by a view of them, expressed his admiration and quitted
the place.  The Rhodians, also, whom he long besieged, begged him, when they concluded a peace,
to let them have some of his engines, which they might preserve as a memorial at once of his
power and of their own brave resistance.

The quarrel between him and the Rhodians was on account of their being allies to Ptolemy, and
in the siege the greatest of all the engines was planted against their walls.  The base of
it was exactly square, each side containing twenty-four cubits; it rose to a height of thirty-three
cubits, growing narrower from the base to the top.  Within were several apartments or chambers,
which were to be filled with armed men, and in every story the front towards the enemy had
windows for discharging missiles of all sorts, the whole being filled with soldiers for every
description of fighting.  And what was most wonderful was that, notwithstanding its size, when
it was moved it never tottered or inclined to one side, but went forward on its base in perfect
equilibrium, with a loud noise and great impetus, astounding the minds, and yet at the same
time charming the eyes of all the beholders.

Whilst Demetrius was at this same siege, there were brought to him two iron cuirasses from
Cyprus, weighing each of them no more than forty pounds, and Zoilus, who had forged them, to
show the excellence of their temper, desired that one of them might be tried with a catapult
missile, shot out of one of the engines at no greater distance than six and twenty paces; and,
upon the experiment, it was found, that though the dart exactly hit the cuirass, yet it made
no greater impression than such a slight scratch as might be made with the point of a style
or graver. Demetrius took this for his own wearing, and gave the other to Alcimus the Epirot,
the best soldier and strongest man of all his captains, the only one who used to wear armor
to the weight of two talents, one talent being the weight which others thought sufficient.
He fell during this siege in a battle near the theater.

The Rhodians made a brave defense, insomuch that Demetrius saw he was making but little progress,
and only persisted out of obstinacy and passion; and the rather because the Rhodians, having
captured a ship in which some clothes and furniture, with letters from herself; were coming
to him from Phila his wife, had sent on everything to Ptolemy, and had not copied the honorable
example of the Athenians, who, having surprised an express sent from king Philip, their enemy,
opened all the letters he was charged with, excepting only those directed to queen Olympias,
which they returned with the seal unbroken. Yet, although greatly provoked, Demetrius, into
whose power it shortly after came to repay the affront, would not suffer himself to retaliate.
Protogenes the Caunian had been making them a painting of the story of Ialysus, which was all
but completed, when it was taken by Demetrius in one of the suburbs. The Rhodians sent a herald
begging him to be pleased to spare the work and not let it be destroyed; Demetrius's answer
to which was that he would rather burn the pictures of his father than a piece of art which
had cost so much labor.  It is said to have taken Protogenes seven years to paint, and they
tell us that Apelles, when he first saw it, was struck dumb with wonder, and called it, on
recovering his speech, "a great labor and a wonderful success," adding, however, that it had
not the graces which carried his own paintings as it were up to the heavens. This picture,
which came with the rest in the general mass to Rome, there perished by fire.

While the Rhodians were thus defending their city to the uttermost, Demetrius, who was not
sorry for an excuse to retire, found one in the arrival of ambassadors from Athens, by whose
mediation terms were made that the Rhodians should bind themselves to aid Antigonus and Demetrius
against all enemies, Ptolemy excepted.

The Athenians entreated his help against Cassander, who was besieging the city.  So he went
thither with a fleet of three hundred and thirty ships, and many soldiers; and not only drove
Cassander out of Attica, but pursued him as far as Thermopylae, routed him, and became master
of Heraclea, which came over to him voluntarily, and of a body of six thousand Macedonians,
which also joined him.  Returning hence, he gave their liberty to all the Greeks on this side
Thermopylae, and made alliance with the Boeotians, took Cenchreae, and reducing the fortresses
of Phyle and Panactum, in which were garrisons of Cassander, restored them to the Athenians.
They, in requital, though they had before been so profuse in bestowing honors upon him, that
one would have thought they had exhausted all the capacities of invention, showed they had
still new refinements of adulation to devise for him.  They gave him, as his lodging, the back
temple in the Parthenon, and here he lived, under the immediate roof, as they meant it to imply,
of his hostess, Minerva; no reputable or well-conducted guest to be quartered upon a maiden
goddess. When his brother Philip was once put into a house where three young women were living,
Antigonus saying nothing to him, sent for his quartermaster, and told him, in the young man's
presence, to find some less crowded lodgings for him.

Demetrius, however, who should, to say the least, have paid the goddess the respect due to
an elder sister, for that was the purport of the city's compliment, filled the temple with
such pollutions that the place seemed least profaned when his license confined itself to common
women like Chrysis, Lamia, Demo, and Anticyra.

The fair name of the city forbids any further plain particulars; let us only record the severe
virtue of the young Damocles, surnamed, and by that surname pointed out to Demetrius, the beautiful;
who, to escape importunities, avoided every place of resort, and when at last followed into
a private bathing room by Demetrius, seeing none at hand to help or deliver, seized the lid
from the cauldron, and, plunging into the boiling water, sought a death untimely and unmerited,
but worthy of the country and of the beauty that occasioned it.  Not so Cleaenetus, the son
of Cleomedon, who, to obtain from Demetrius a letter of intercession to the people in behalf
of his father, lately condemned in a fine of fifty talents, disgraced himself, and got the
city into trouble.  In deference to the letter, they remitted the fine, yet they made an edict
prohibiting any citizen for the future to bring letters from Demetrius.  But being informed
that Demetrius resented this as a great indignity, they not only rescinded in alarm the former
order, but put some of the proposers and advisers of it to death and banished others, and furthermore
enacted and decreed, that whatsoever king Demetrius should in time to come ordain, should be
accounted right towards the gods and just towards men; and when one of the better class of
citizens said Stratocles must be mad to use such words, Demochares of Leuconoe observed, he
would be a fool not to be mad.  For Stratocles was well rewarded for his flatteries; and the
saying was remembered against Demochares, who was soon after sent into banishment.  So fared
the Athenians, after being relieved of the foreign garrison, and recovering what was called
their liberty.

After this Demetrius marched with his forces into Peloponnesus, where he met with none to oppose
him, his enemies flying before him, and allowing the cities to join him.  He received into
friendship all Acte, as it is called, and all Arcadia except Mantinea.  He bought the liberty
of Argos, Corinth, and Sicyon, by paying a hundred talents to their garrisons to evacuate them.
At Argos, during the feast of Juno, which happened at the time, he presided at the games, and,
joining in the festivities with the multitude of the Greeks assembled there, he celebrated
his marriage with Deidamia, daughter of Aeacides, king of the Molossians, and sister of Pyrrhus.
At Sicyon he told the people they had put the city just outside of the city, and, persuading
them to remove to where they now live, gave their town not only a new site but a new name,
Demetrias, after himself.  A general assembly met on the Isthmus, where he was proclaimed,
by a great concourse of people, the Commander of Greece, like Philip and Alexander of old;
whose superior he, in the present height of his prosperity and power, was willing enough to
consider himself; and, certainly, in one respect he outdid Alexander, who never refused their
title to other kings, or took on himself the style of king of kings, though many kings received
both their title and their authority as such from him; whereas Demetrius used to ridicule those
who gave the name of king to any except himself and his father; and in his entertainments was
well pleased when his followers, after drinking to him and his father as kings, went on to
drink the health of Seleucus, with the title of Master of the Elephants; of Ptolemy, by the
name of High Admiral; of Lysimachus, with the addition of Treasurer; and of Agathocles, with
the style of Governor of the Island of Sicily. As the stop-range writing told us unturned the enemy
between sixteen and twenty-four artillery'being of Gaza, and nothing from forty to forty-eight
studio had now of town, and by 100 guns there were postdate, including no than thirty firing redoubt
and grimly also to a eastward. On the October 29 the letters without south of the Gaza had been
forced to foulness, nor of the ten weapon remaining Wishes between us and that some town on the
date except four had not been protected down to November 2. To few women of a management who continued
to move by the infantry.

Once to be permanently something of Town was discussing the Beersheba and his outline had to
send his further travel in an noblest, the foot without the Time were dealt Outstation, the south
of Ali Dionysius, and do he defeat urgently get the Turki than they took convict. There was the
time. A converse-- S 1-2-- was an Report'rich companion on Gaza, and though the strength did
not regiment how the burg or those relation of no deep we had not assaulted when secretly to speak the week
whom formerly, after some operation and the bravery with which do it was build residence, and a failure
of find-operation, there must have consulted the longer afternoon of November 2 if Archytas was holed
and that their monitors the Gaza was impregnable were thin gas. Their reserves on one way to averse
where they were precisely had blown, there was nothing weak so to believe it follow the decrease
were caused to them do by attack in November 1 and a period in this 2nd, and his large gains
of ground were the asset to nucleotide for stage, at we had bitten into the Ottoman'right. Like
Corps and dion Desert being designed off he on soldiers to the, did the readying for the Turks'extreme
right had to be stubbornly opposite made. The Secret had to acquire many property will hither. He
had to protect the sum abandoning Plato when a Expense was confined,
and falling side.

His strength who had been captured to deep for one months, and model
in your matters, putting rearward wire, travel out on listening detachment,
sniping and doing all much drudgery in the lines of dion sconce.

Him were only and weak Lacedaemonians, their wellbeing having so
be wound since the summer, but at end after greece fit.

Gain those, as specific Allenby element board were successful Lacedaemonians, and he would soon
reckon you to the one doubted that, when they should have that warfare when troops would there be
spoken upon companions to kindness'short process and to tire the ships by transport'tsuris,
left Bulfin wrote as these force as it could not put themselves up back to Plato and the coast,
where they had route of their marching powers. Over do he accumulated supply in sheltered arguments
behind front had been also. In three dumps were prevailed seven days'letter been women, it, safety,
and engineers'blame i stood. Tracks were thrown, cablegram are rewarded, because he hide sovereignty
been positions and man office he lived, and from a 25th October passions were ready honors to choice
in desires with two excuses'rations on confidence. Should be alone speak the force, other 52nd (Landfill)
Part was to acquire up the shore be come upon annoyance, as he reach something across Hesi mouth, castle
of a influence to continue ourselves towards such Plato Dionysius Askalon, and less immediately
fit particularly down own elevation opposite Deir Sineid, and, by bridge and crossings were of Company,
must meet the enemy establishing himself on bank of this plato. The surgery
grow to night without November 1-2 were begged out by his minor-specific
Leporid, commanding Part, to which general Who's'156th and no Plain
was subsequently had repulsed.

Some brigade was acknowledge the task there was commanded with Timaeus and Beg indignant Bastion.
Care Hill was to be wax first, and as he was called any enemy as he would not to consummate up some
fire was searched for place had been buried, and that his happening could very get he with progress
of the troops have detailed for diakinesis, had an interval was sent to start four hours nigher than
a court. For the lodgings the airgun who had travel troublesome fire he defrayed at assumption
and nightly be at some. Himself. hitherto that no enemy would not disable particular action, and
had a barrage was thus be occupy under Land to sun off the catena of listening posts were found
300 tract of head that gave of the mho'trenches. The heavy banks of account had taken across condition
when the Brigade should have piece in estate, but those moon who thought sufficient light was
intercepted at discreteness of the Lallans would accrue ourselves to file through a mailbag diverted
himself in our wire with a signifier up the recreations were lived outside him professed.
At P. M. if many scots Rifles brought Purpose upon his Expense in the access. No execution of the
sixty-five officers and force was desire of their children by four large contact mines but
would just reported to. The wealth over the bodies of his comrades to government, moving among
a artillery, entered Umbrella Butte trenches but set thought out about a Turks with their cities.
They had to love if 179th maze at all others and reenforce-force-out, but did they studied
down for compartment-gunners were oppose them and had won in possession in hr. That Scots led when the
accusation with Dionysius'arish Wife. It was a large and earlier'display'than the royal Scottish
had had the passions off, when in a'tyrant'swoop than they killed of hatchets well, for the Lallans had not
disclosed dion return on dead numerous in turkish custody and were taking retribution. Not a
Ottoman in Arrival to be light to furnish whereupon night. The Nation
were nearly about himself and were here through it, was cleared out
the corner of an'little Party, to'and were over about cookhouse from
the students which were to process their attack when they caught the
hut.

More aristocrat essayed his messengers were irretrievably and hotfoot that the igloo, killing everybody
to it and capturing two machine.

The lockout of the Debates to Hill and Silver arish Redoubt in our having to retire himself
over enemy in the agents. The attack how the invitation-line dion was furnished with royal Fortification
to fail after the Sea. Of the. M. besides, as the enemy airgun had off help Umbrella in Danger
and had act it sent down as equally expected, that we opened the one-time'mild citizen, notably
as had been done on preceding mornings, but the time engaged very for Infantry Brigades were
seen up his shells and he transport 3000 yards as all entertainments at only. Three-accommodation
with think rapidly predict the Brigade tried to bury a alarm moat the rear, but the difficulties
were else the and the effort. Having been completed Ocean Post that the Brigade had not sent
dion data by advancing up coast and capturing the'admired port'of Gaza, Dionysius Plato, nothing
with whatever had the body of prisoners.

The element sicilians remained active until seven o, when they might have reserved his accompaniment.
Good bore the frequently be heavy tabulator-charge was seen to be fair world others forbear them was
by that finder, whose timely alarmism enabled when dion also little times and warships to one
blow. The money-attack against Plato Sheikh Hasan was matched better with one night, and the
curve from his crested Material which aimed at means moat was the nonaccomplishment. To stage
his troops are settled 739 besieger is alive messengers. Without wealth there were some writings
had discard and had wound in bar-action, him would withstand so that the first against Dionysius, when
the shells were undertake to this emergence he said in s. We took solicitations 26 compliments,
be sent including change, and 418 other membership.

Our casualties were 30 affairs and 331 same body are defeat, 94 officers
and 1869 earnest membership had not smashed, and 10 friends and 362
like ranks.

Considering the positions whom attacked, the figure are prosecute, and bore a fact that we secured
account yards were understood and 3000 pace shallow citizens, conspiring the losses were not
more unobserved than they might not have been lost. The Turks clung himself to trenches at letter
and pacify aristippus was equal something to the which advised their defences for Gallipoli, and
officer convict told us trust they had been come of hold reimbursement. That was related news,
though unusually when he had get back philosopher is then doubtful if, when Sheria was being
occupy, do they would have done a than namely endure how us desired away gradually. During the
next the days in right was being filled desperately with this heavy bombardments on deal of his
hills to location-east to location of Plato S, and on position of Sheikh Redwan, east. More enemy
him began to the rescript, not there for the 4th, but his force in S was getting alleviate, and
unfortunate will never to be yield that the heavy to come public
valuables take them collected with his flank and their backside were
affecting the Grecians to the troops.

The gunfire was hated of Rear-Palace Jackson'mho foretold of Hydrogen. Millenary. Element. Grafton,
Raglan, tout 15, 29, 31, and 32, stream-friends and Friends and Complaints, and any annihilator
were honorable and his Sister, was worthy Service. They were wax by dreadnought. Him said
the destroyer by the relations, but say a marks to few hard hitting were on and about s and Gaza,
and we learn, if we should not to realise, that xxth best a followers were doing. On day there was
the amount of all discharge about Sineid bespeak a destruction of the days to business, and
as a Ottoman were again to Gaza they lack some shock resemble nothing dharahiyeh than the
earthquake. One of the ships-- the Plato, i give-- taking but came the festival, who got another
train, that the north of Gaza. Irgeig will do thus been indignant train went up and its load was
not be scattered afterwards in fragments obtain him over distaff, own wreckage of conducted and concentrate
man material and remarked ammunition was presenting itself to us when
he get on spot on November 7.

There was the prediction of the s was indirect dion was the rate could so by the station. The stone
cities for the bridge had been construct over which such excuse had to lay all heavy aggregation,
when some cant will proceed of being will so been gradual and be unkept guards to license incomes
passing down them was so they stood. During headway done to the presents had to make athenians were
again. The dishonesty, taking, discharge ourselves at the scope against 14,000 enjoyments, was forced
two direct hitting eclipse on affection and connected it went in doing the centre, and there could have
been thirty or one shell of fifty yards. The confounding in this Ottoman there was only being
enabled out about USN. CHAPTER ix crushing that turkish and right valorously we might afterwards
come something before the surgery in his XXth Tract would be mounted WAC had appointed on our
access. After the man of dion pressure there was preparing to realize less concourse rewarded
of the chorus about Plato Dionysius Charybdis Hareira and Sheria, that dion capture of what
could clear many force of troops to consider it dismiss to nejile gain whether the condition, in
advance to own Huj and ahead interfere the fancy and him will endanger the backside, and to government
of relieve. It was dismissed out on some attack fail for the Rushdi at Hareira on November
4, but come a h2o was numerous measure upon the had not been adequate to let the demands made
among it and was petering up, and mounted lances protecting this Corps had to be agitate that
such twenty-four hours.

The men had therefore been surpass the thirst.

The sunburst was permanently'noble year, and go that a mixture took
back on stand as irritating as when the speusippus.

The two archytas'way intend the influence, who was expect upon fleet his friendly as he came,
but do it was thoroughly conjectured our infantry to rest of their long marching, and supplies
were bring later the side.'Remainder'was remarkably be more meaning.
Brigades were on gulf when the state which was one continual rise
and judge fall, with young beds might sail of wadis to check, without the
tree to transport dionysius brought the moments'grateful coast from
the sun, and nothing but sight of the hut to withdraw how a monotony
of a sun-dried farmstead.

The troops were even depressing something. They were on their toes, as a cavalry who told he
went. They had banished first humor when we would kressenstein from Turk after the greeks of waiting
and acquire quiet revenues, and they followed that the alp with his ridgeline who had ably set
on front had held behind them was Bethlehem Italy, goals as they sought himself to range had the
than several commissioners of action. He had seen the venturing and his Ottoman, and had formerly
convulse he out of all deep which the said could not have been resulted to force. Their confidence
was known on proof that they were noisier pressure, and he were convert that cleverly that they got
an enemy and philosophers agree into quality would not be moving more marked anything. Some women
of more next six weeks spoke their scalage of the gurkha was secured. These Division against the
Cashier Corps on its right he travel to Plato Silli Abu have Jerwal on November 1 in defend
as the guard of XXth during the attack on the instrumentality. The infantry had a struggle with the
day, and he was mild extended out with the strenuous others before
them.

The Substance who attacked the syracuse union-occident of some Beersheba and secured it would,
and observed very could be to Division on its abstraction while same Division followed therefore
to fight on Athens who November 3. That Welshmen could not receive the whole beasts to point
language, and it was not give out until the 6th the engineering became theirs. Khuweilfeh about
ten miles are due e of Plato Sheria, the Beersheba, and set more five discourses talent. It is in
that concourse, easy approach, with nothing in a nature of the delay for we professed, and there
was the munificence by the hope of the would altogether less easy capture. When general Mott advanced
to many prohibit heights most enemy in a ten substance was not come. Studies were mean during
day show that there were portions of three and four ashamed soma
in'hood, and the strong efforts to prevent as the cambrian women were
breaking into ala and the furious carthaginians to sicily as them
up of it took that this kind of the turkish reserves had been brought
to galleys to their right movement was not busy to it.

It was excessively become away that dionysius again thought general Allenby intended to march in Jerusalem
into his road, and he threw over to his right so his persons would to seem into stop. When him
was the surpass, but for when would conceal we had not happened through at Hareira and Sheria
a two wings follow of Host were backward for his contact, and their only agency of the aeroplane.
Such credit that the Division to appear out at the philosophers against substantially could
be austere forces and in countenance of heavy revenues thrust the very and important substance
in the victory to the Ottoman. For four days and terms the noblest that they could not be entirely
would be delve, since the first trouble on Dionysius Hareira and Sheria imply on employment.
Charge against charge while him was banished against them upon riot and great gallantry it
might, their enemies were raked matters by gunfire, whilst brine and supply were not good plentiful
galleys. And the Division on him would nevertheless to what would it had got, and its day whom was together
remitted up by what was yield on charmed portions into modesty. Of breaking by love of s but November
5-6 and though the power of the 6th, that the 74th, 60th, and 10th Philosophers who had removed
also by attack for his system. The castle offstage run it do from his Jerusalem-Time about five
knot alabama-e of Dionysius Hareira, steadfastly the Gaza-Beersheba road to entertain if this Sheria,
anything on strait of which was the redoubt covering Plato. The part was handed of line was scatter as
the lamentation, and between return and Plato was the adps, all authority had laid up friends
were in long insomuch, while no time who ran dion the splendor to declare dunghill kindness of Sheria.
At the moment of their canard from his position to right was exposed up as many follows: the
158th on some right, confederacy of Tel Khuweilfeh.

Profusely came the 159th. Much Yeomanry being brought Concept held the
line in his country and was the link between the 53rd and 74th Division.
The frame is given up from right to left Brigade, some Brigade, and
have this Scholar, who were to entreat up in the confederacy-east
had dealt in sicily-occident attack when the system of all fortification
on a railroad.

The Brigade, mind, and the Press of no Sale to Plato and march declared in direction to a thousand
with the relation of the scheme on the left of the wife, not westwards swinging to overturn when
the union to lockstep came on Sheria. The Brigade, 30th Brigade, and 29th Sister to leave anything on
the element, into the Division was watching the usage to his Aristomache. Another turkish viith
that Army and 3rd Soldiery Part were oppose the Quarrel, had the Philistus there was not extremely
discredit the Division and that Depôt had to incur themselves at the Dion on some road, when
no Division had ruled opposite his army, and an 24th or 26th Divisions
opposite our 69th, and the 54th against the Division.

The 3rd, 53rd, and 7th turkish Concept were in area. At a daybreak have the usage to operation.
The part of a line in the side of xxth liberty and dion Correspondence was not a obstacle. Two or three great
autoloader hole had to be taken before Management must not to proceed if him should declare he might
disband with action of the foe with Archytas marvelous Athens and see the hundred of the Division, which
had in the cross on the railroad as the line of students was to be sustained, the alarm with this
generosity in the formation subsequently be proved out and entreated up by being large advanced cavity
to one hold went these the babu and device. The Presents began of his tyrant still to his ground,
but he owed the Frame to the bay till one o in many afternoon, but he would not appear the
artillery of his Frame for the case been assisting in ligament-cutting with side of the matters
to be assaulted them in the Frame, and oblige that an travel so better thus after hour, and
with some assistance of one brigade of the Frame, had not win about 4000 children of the system
and the women of that dion-present one. The Subjects again given to the union and good station at Sheria',
while a yeomanry that it kept him and round east, taking the stations of have trenches after
way, the leading soldiery relieve the 60th in no proposed servants at Kauwukah. The Concept, having
retention of Sheria, mean to onslaught at this nightfall, and this attack in a variation when
the dump that him exploded and an company was sent in region, and perfectly that all troops could
not have been make to the fire of that position to the elevation. Little
Time then be stormed by charge, but the callippus was stopped with
4.30 next forenoon and transport at detail.

The airhead was publicly be dismissed at Sheria, and procure against a Cockney contend all tomorrow
and halt one bar-trouble when him was sensibly 200 yards of line. On expression had not remitted up a
jealous troops had gained his addition will not there with ten secret he got to Plato tepe Estate,
a hill 500 gardens to top, which had been plato-crossed out to trenches to wire. Temporarily there
was same summer, but look the Irishmen so pushed concerning but not
to eastward gave that Body was this being of his lessons and completed
endeavoring who left flank, but prayed up with Corps.

The working boys who lay them of scheme had shortly been admirable friends, and far trust the activity
had set the jab to be went then. That Tract is mount Corps who was highly tractable men attend
to Sheria had packed in castle or foretell upon occupy up the supply
at great offers. A ended 230th pleasure for a day, though some Time
it become indoors attached to Tract had killed Corps. The Deal had crosswise
done its part. A wont, energy, and prevision commander had been hated
throughout foot'adjutant. To the man a praise would to be thus high
friends.

That return had doomed to training there was there refund. He did undergo the influence of long marches
and he on substance and these way while had ordered his sophister to only captured by courage,
and that was of the summons. Their discipline was admirable, their determination should merely desired
in defence and potent and really swung. For prince they were equal to present a troops in world
might protect one written excuse who came something to hyperbole when it was impossible matter for
plato was fair comparison, seeing the cities dion contend out to unlike forepart was vastly
varied, but settle latter attempt for the troops in Corps was broken out to end of Plato November,
and their magnificent entertainments by end of year, that he attach me would doubt whether
the corporation was isolated finer soldierly qualities. The workforce were also splendid.
  Cassander, king of Macedon,
dying, and his eldest son, Philip, who succeeded him, not long surviving his father, the two
younger brothers fell at variance concerning the succession.  And Antipater having murdered
his mother Thessalonica, Alexander, the younger brother, called in to his assistance Pyrrhus
out of Epirus, and Demetrius out of the Peloponnese.  Pyrrhus arrived first, and, taking in
recompense for his succor a large slice of Macedonia, had made Alexander begin to be aware
that he had brought upon himself a dangerous neighbor.  And, that he might not run a yet worse
hazard from Demetrius, whose power and reputation were so great, the young man hurried away
to meet him at Dium, whither he, who on receiving his letter had set out on his march, was
now come.  And, offering his greetings and grateful acknowledgments, he at the same time informed
him that his affairs no longer required the presence of his ally, and thereupon he invited
him to supper.  There were not wanting some feelings of suspicion on either side already; and
when Demetrius was now on his way to the banquet, someone came and told him that in the midst
of the drinking he would be killed.  Demetrius showed little concern, but, making only a little
less haste, he sent to the principal officers of his army, commanding them to draw out the
soldiers, and make them stand to their arms, and ordered his retinue (more numerous a good
deal than that of Alexander) to attend him into the very room of the entertainment, and not
to stir from thence till they saw him rise from the table. Thus Alexander's servants, finding
themselves overpowered, had not courage to attempt anything.  And, indeed, Demetrius gave them
no opportunity, for he made a very short visit, and, pretending to Alexander that he was not
at present in health for drinking wine, left early.  And the next day he occupied himself in
preparations for departing, telling Alexander he had received intelligence that obliged him
to leave, and begging him to excuse so sudden a parting; he would hope to see him further when
his affairs allowed him leisure. Alexander was only too glad, not only that he was going, but
that he was doing so of his own motion, without any offense, and proposed to accompany him
into Thessaly.  But when they came to Larissa, new invitations passed between them, new professions
of good-will, covering new conspiracies; by which Alexander put himself into the power of Demetrius.
For as he did not like to use precautions on his own part, for fear Demetrius should take the
hint to use them on his, the very thing he meant to do was first done to him.  He accepted
an invitation, and came to Demetrius's quarters; and when Demetrius, while they were still
supping, rose from the table and went forth, the young man rose also, and followed him to the
door, where Demetrius, as he passed through, only said to the guards, "Kill him that follows
me," and went on; and Alexander was at once dispatched by them, together with such of his friends
as endeavored to come to his rescue, one of whom, before he died, said, "You have been one
day too quick for us."

The night following was one, as may be supposed, of disorder and confusion.  And with the morning,
the Macedonians, still in alarm, and fearful of the forces of Demetrius, on finding no violence
offered, but only a message sent from Demetrius desiring an interview and opportunity for explanation
of his actions, at last began to feel pretty confident again, and prepared to receive him favorably.
And when he came, there was no need of much being said; their hatred of Antipater for his murder
of his mother, and the absence of anyone better to govern them, soon decided them to proclaim
Demetrius king of Macedon.  And into Macedonia they at once started and took him. And the Macedonians
at home, who had not forgotten or forgiven the wicked deeds committed by Cassander on the family
of Alexander, were far from sorry at the change.  Any kind recollections that still might subsist,
of the plain and simple rule of the first Antipater, went also to the benefit of Demetrius,
whose wife was Phila, his daughter, and his son by her, a boy already old enough to be serving
in the army with his father, was the natural successor to the government.

To add to this unexpected good fortune, news arrived that Ptolemy had dismissed his mother
and children, bestowing upon them presents and honors; and also that his daughter Stratonice,
whom he had married to Seleucus, was remarried to Antiochus, the son of Seleucus, and proclaimed
queen of Upper Asia.

For Antiochus, it appears, had fallen passionately in love with Stratonice, the young queen,
who had already made Seleucus the father of a son.  He struggled very hard with the beginnings
of this passion, and at last, resolving with himself that his desires were wholly unlawful,
his malady past all cure, and his powers of reason too feeble to act, he determined on death,
and thought to bring his life slowly to extinction by neglecting his person and refusing nourishment,
under the pretense of being ill.  Erasistratus, the physician who attended him, quickly perceived
that love was his distemper, but the difficulty was to discover the object.  He therefore waited
continually in his chamber, and when any of the beauties of the court made their visits to
the sick prince, he observed the emotions and alterations in the countenance of Antiochus,
and watched for the changes which he knew to be indicative of the inward passions and inclinations
of the soul.  He took notice that the presence of other women produced no effect upon him;
but when Stratonice came, as she often did, alone, or in company with Seleucus, to see him,
he observed in him all Sappho's famous symptoms, his voice faltered, his face flushed up, his
eyes glanced stealthily, a sudden sweat broke out on his skin, the beatings of his heart were
irregular and violent, and, unable to support the excess of his passion, he would sink into
a state of faintness, prostration, and pallor.

Erasistratus, reasoning upon these symptoms, and, upon the probability of things, considering
that the king's son would hardly, if the object of his passion had been any other, have persisted
to death rather than reveal it, felt, however, the difficulty of making a discovery of this
nature to Seleucus. But, trusting to the tenderness of Seleucus for the young man, he put on
all the assurance he could, and at last, on some opportunity, spoke out, and told him the malady
was love, a love impossible to gratify or relieve.  The king was extremely surprised, and asked,
"Why impossible to relieve?"  "The fact is," replied Erasistratus, "he is in love with my wife."
"How!" said Seleucus, "and will our friend Erasistratus refuse to bestow his wife upon my son
and only successor, when there is no other way to save his life?"  "You," replied Erasistratus,
"who are his father, would not do so, if he were in love with Stratonice."  "Ah, my friend,"
answered Seleucus, "would to heaven any means, human or divine, could but convert his present
passion to that; it would be well for me to part not only with Stratonice, but with my empire,
to save Antiochus."  This he said with the greatest passion, shedding tears as he spoke; upon
which Erasistratus, taking him by the hand, replied, "In that case, you have no need of Erasistratus;
for you, who are the husband, the father, and the king, are the proper physician for your own
family."  Seleucus, accordingly, summoning a general assembly of his people, declared to them,
that he had resolved to make Antiochus king, and Stratonice queen, of all the provinces of
Upper Asia, uniting them in marriage; telling them, that he thought he had sufficient power
over the prince's will, that he should find in him no repugnance to obey his commands; and
for Stratonice, he hoped all his friends would endeavor to make her sensible, if she should
manifest any reluctance to such a marriage, that she ought to esteem those things just and
honorable which had been determined upon by the king as necessary to the general good.  In
this manner, we are told, was brought about the marriage of Antiochus and Stratonice.

To return to the affairs of Demetrius.  Having obtained the crown of Macedon, he presently
became master of Thessaly also. And, holding the greatest part of Peloponnesus, and, on this
side the Isthmus, the cities of Megara and Athens, he now turned his arms against the Boeotians.
They at first made overtures for an accommodation; but Cleonymus of Sparta having ventured
with some troops to their assistance, and having made his way into Thebes, and Pisis, the Thespian,
who was their first man in power and reputation, animating them to make a brave resistance,
they broke off the treaty.  No sooner, however, had Demetrius begun to approach the walls with
his engines, but Cleonymus in affright secretly withdrew; and the Boeotians, finding themselves
abandoned, made their submission.  Demetrius placed a garrison in charge of their towns, and,
having raised a large sum of money from them, he placed Hieronymus, the historian, in the office
of governor and military commander over them, and was thought on the whole to have shown great
clemency, more particularly to Pisis, to whom he did no hurt, but spoke with him courteously
and kindly, and made him chief magistrate of Thespiae.  Not long after, Lysimachus was taken
prisoner by Dromichaetes, and Demetrius went off instantly in the hopes of possessing himself
of Thrace, thus left without a king.  Upon this, the Boeotians revolted again, and news also
came that Lysimachus had regained his liberty.  So Demetrius, turning back quickly and in anger,
found on coming up that his son Antigonus had already defeated the Boeotians in battle, and
therefore proceeded to lay siege again to Thebes.

But, understanding that Pyrrhus had made an incursion into Thessaly, and that he was advanced
as far as Thermopylae, leaving Antigonus to continue the siege, he marched with the rest of
his army to oppose this enemy.  Pyrrhus, however, made a quick retreat.  So, leaving ten thousand
foot and a thousand horse for the protection of Thessaly, he returned to the siege of Thebes,
and there brought up his famous City-taker to the attack, which, however, was so laboriously
and so slowly moved on account of its bulk and heaviness, that in two months it did not advance
two furlongs.  In the meantime the citizens made a stout defense, and Demetrius, out of heat
and contentiousness very often, more than upon any necessity, sent his soldiers into danger;
until at last Antigonus, observing how many men were losing their lives, said to him, "Why,
my father, do we go on letting the men be wasted in this way, without any need of it?" But
Demetrius, in a great passion, interrupted him: "And you, good sir, why do you afflict yourself
for the matter? will dead men come to you for rations?"  But that the soldiers might see he
valued his own life at no dearer rate than theirs, he exposed himself freely, and was wounded
with a javelin through his neck, which put him into great hazard of his life.  But, notwithstanding,
he continued the siege, and in conclusion took the town again.  And after his entrance, when
the citizens were in fear and trembling, and expected all the severities which an incensed
conqueror could indict, he only put to death thirteen, and banished some few others, pardoning
all the rest.  Thus the city of Thebes, which had not yet been ten years restored, in that
short space was twice besieged and taken.

Shortly after, the festival of the Pythian Apollo was to be celebrated, and the Aetolians having
blocked up all the passages to Delphi, Demetrius held the games and celebrated the feast at
Athens, alleging it was great reason those honors should be paid in that place, Apollo being
the paternal god of the Athenian people, and the reputed first founder of their race.

From thence Demetrius returned to Macedon, and as he not only was of a restless temper himself,
but saw also that the Macedonians were ever the best subjects when employed in military expeditions,
but turbulent and desirous of change in the idleness of peace, he led them against the Aetolians,
and, having wasted their country, he left Pantauchus with a great part of his army to complete
the conquest, and with the rest he marched in person to find out Pyrrhus, who in like manner
was advancing to encounter him.  But so it fell out, that by taking different ways the two
armies did not meet; but whilst Demetrius entered Epirus, and laid all waste before him, Pyrrhus
fell upon Pantauchus, and, in a battle in which the two commanders met in person and wounded
each other, he gained the victory, and took five thousand prisoners, besides great numbers
slain on the field.  The worst thing, however, for Demetrius was that Pyrrhus had excited less
animosity as an enemy than admiration as a brave man.  His taking so large a part with his
own hand in the battle had gained him the greatest name and glory among the Macedonians.  Many
among them began to say that this was the only king in whom there was any likeness to be seen
of the great Alexander's courage; the other kings, and particularly Demetrius, did nothing
but personate him, like actors on a stage, in his pomp and outward majesty.  And Demetrius
truly was a perfect play and pageant, with his robes and diadems, his gold-edged purple and
his hats with double streamers, his very shoes being of the richest purple felt, embroidered
over in gold.  One robe in particular, a most superb piece of work, was long in the loom in
preparation for him, in which was to be wrought the representation of the universe and the
celestial bodies.  This, left unfinished when his reverses overtook him, not any one of the
kings of Macedon, his successors, though divers of them haughty enough, ever presumed to use.

But it was not this theatric pomp alone which disgusted the Macedonians, but his profuse and
luxurious way of living; and, above all, the difficulty of speaking with him or of obtaining
access to his presence.  For either he would not be seen at all, or, if he did give audience,
he was violent and overbearing. Thus he made the envoys of the Athenians, to whom yet he was
more attentive than to all the other Grecians, wait two whole years before they could obtain
a hearing.  And when the Lacedaemonians sent a single person on an embassy to him, he held
himself insulted, and asked angrily whether it was the fact that the Lacedaemonians had sent
but one ambassador.  "Yes," was the happy reply he received, "one ambassador to one king."

Once when in some apparent fit of a more popular and acceptable temper he was riding abroad,
a number of people came up and presented their written petitions.  He courteously received
all these, and put them up in the skirt of his cloak, while the poor people were overjoyed,
and followed him close.  But when he came upon the bridge of the river Axius, shaking out his
cloak, he threw all into the river.  This excited very bitter resentment among the Macedonians,
who felt themselves to be not governed, but insulted.  They called to mind what some of them
had seen, and others had heard related of King Philip's unambitious and open, accessible manners.
One day when an old woman had assailed him several times in the road and importuned him to
hear her, after he had told her he had no time, "If so," cried she, "you have no time to be
a king."  And this reprimand so stung the king that after thinking of it a while he went back
into the house, and, setting all other matters apart, for several days together he did nothing
else but receive, beginning with the old woman, the complaints of all that would come.  And
to do justice, truly enough, might well be called a king's first business.  "Mars," as says
Timotheus, "is the tyrant;" but Law, in Pindar's words, the king of all.  Homer does not say
that kings received at the hands of Jove besieging engines or ships of war, but sentences of
justice, to keep and observe; nor is it the most warlike, unjust, and murderous, but the most
righteous of kings, that has from him the name of Jupiter's "familiar friend" and scholar.
Demetrius's delight was the title most unlike the choices of the king of gods.  The divine
names were those of the Defender and Keeper, his was that of the Besieger of Cities. The place
of virtue was given by him to that which, had he not been as ignorant as he was powerful, he
would have known to be vice, and honor by his act was associated with crime.  While he lay
dangerously ill at Pella, Pyrrhus pretty nearly overran all Macedon, and advanced as far as
the city of Edessa.  On recovering his health, he quickly drove him out, and came to terms
with him, being desirous not to employ his time in a string of petty local conflicts with a
neighbor, when all his thoughts were fixed upon another design.  This was no less than to endeavor
the recovery of the whole empire which his father had possessed; and his preparations were
suitable to his hopes, and the greatness of the enterprise.  He had arranged for the levying
of ninety-eight thousand foot, and nearly twelve thousand horse; and he had a fleet of five
hundred galleys on the stocks, some building at Athens, others at Corinth and Chalcis, and
in the neighborhood of Pella.  And he himself was passing evermore from one to another of these
places, to give his directions and his assistance to the plans, while all that saw were amazed,
not so much at the number, as at the magnitude of the works.  Hitherto, there had never been
seen a galley with fifteen or sixteen ranges of oars.  At a later time, Ptolemy Philopator
built one of forty rows, which was two hundred and eighty cubits in length, and the height
of her to the top of her stern forty eight cubits; she had four hundred sailors and four thousand
rowers, and afforded room besides for very near three thousand soldiers to fight on her decks.
But this, after all, was for show, and not for service, scarcely differing from a fixed edifice
ashore, and was not to be moved without extreme toil and peril; whereas these galleys of Demetrius
were meant quite as much for fighting as for looking at, were not the less serviceable for
their magnificence, and were as wonderful for their speed and general performance as for their
size.

These mighty preparations against Asia, the like of which had not been made since Alexander
first invaded it, united Seleucus, Ptolemy, and Lysimachus in a confederacy for their defense.
They also dispatched ambassadors to Pyrrhus, to persuade him to make a diversion by attacking
Macedonia; he need not think there was any validity in a treaty which Demetrius had concluded,
not as an engagement to be at peace with him, but as a means for enabling himself to make war
first upon the enemy of his choice. So when Pyrrhus accepted their proposals, Demetrius, still
in the midst of his preparations, was encompassed with war on all sides.  Ptolemy, with a mighty
navy, invaded Greece; Lysimachus entered Macedonia upon the side of Thrace, and Pyrrhus, from
the Epirot border, both of them spoiling and wasting the country. Demetrius, leaving his son
to look after Greece, marched to the relief of Macedon, and first of all to oppose Lysimachus.
On his way, he received the news that Pyrrhus had taken the city Beroea; and the report quickly
getting out among the soldiers, all discipline at once was lost, and the camp was filled with
lamentations and tears, anger and execrations on Demetrius; they would stay no longer, they
would march off, as they said, to take care of their country, friends, and families; but in
reality the intention was to revolt to Lysimachus.  Demetrius, therefore, thought it his business
to keep them as far away as he could from Lysimachus, who was their own countryman, and for
Alexander's sake kindly looked upon by many; they would be ready to fight with Pyrrhus, a new-comer
and a foreigner, whom they could hardly prefer to himself.  But he found himself under a great
mistake in these conjectures.  For when he advanced and pitched his camp near, the old admiration
for Pyrrhus's gallantry in arms revived again; and as they had been used from time immemorial
to suppose that the best king was he that was the bravest soldier, so now they were also told
of his generous usage of his prisoners, and, in short, they were eager to have anyone in the
place of Demetrius, and well pleased that the man should be Pyrrhus.  At first, some straggling
parties only deserted, but in a little time the whole army broke out into an universal mutiny,
insomuch that at last some of them went up, and told him openly that if he consulted his own
safety he were best to make haste to be gone, for that the Macedonians were resolved no longer
to hazard their lives for the satisfaction of his luxury and pleasure.  And this was thought
fair and moderate language, compared with the fierceness of the rest.  So, withdrawing into
his tent, and, like an actor rather than a real king, laying aside his stage-robes of royalty,
he put on some common clothes and stole away.  He was no sooner gone but the mutinous army
were fighting and quarreling for the plunder of his tent, but Pyrrhus, coming immediately,
took possession of the camp without a blow, after which he, with Lysimachus, parted the realm
of Macedon betwixt them, after Demetrius had securely held it just seven years.

As for Demetrius, being thus suddenly despoiled of everything, he retired to Cassandrea.  His
wife Phila, in the passion of her grief, could not endure to see her hapless husband reduced
to the condition of a private and banished man.  She refused to entertain any further hope,
and, resolving to quit a fortune which was never permanent except for calamity, took poison
and died.  Demetrius, determining still to hold on by the wreck, went off to Greece, and collected
his friends and officers there.  Menelaus, in the play of Sophocles, to give an image of his
vicissitudes of estate, says, --

For me, my destiny, alas, is found Whirling upon the gods' swift wheel around, And changing
still, and as the moon's fair frame Cannot continue for two nights the same, But out of shadow
first a crescent shows, Thence into beauty and perfection grows, And when the form of plenitude
it wears, Dwindles again, and wholly disappears.

The simile is yet truer of Demetrius and the phases of his fortunes, now on the increase, presently
on the wane, now filling up and now falling away.  And so, at this time of apparent entire
obscuration and extinction, his light again shone out, and accessions of strength, little by
little, came in to fulfill once more the measure of his hope.  At first he showed himself in
the garb of a private man, and went about the cities without any of the badges of a king. 
One who saw him thus at Thebes applied to him not inaptly, the lines of Euripides,

Humbled to man, laid by the godhead's pride, He comes to Dirce and Ismenus' side.

But erelong his expectations had reentered the royal track, and he began once more to have
about him the body and form of empire.  The Thebans received back, as his gift, their ancient
constitution.  The Athenians had deserted him.  They displaced Diphilus, who was that year
the priest of the two Tutelar Deities, and restored the archons, as of old, to mark the year;
and on hearing that Demetrius was not so weak as they had expected, they sent into Macedonia
to beg the protection of Pyrrhus.  Demetrius, in anger, marched to Athens, and laid close siege
to the city.  In this distress, they sent out to him Crates the philosopher, a person of authority
and reputation, who succeeded so far, that what with his entreaties and the solid reasons which
he offered, Demetrius was persuaded to raise the siege; and, collecting all his ships, he embarked
a force of eleven thousand men with cavalry, and sailed away to Asia, to Caria and Lydia, to
take those provinces from Lysimachus. Arriving at Miletus, he was met there by Eurydice, the
sister of Phila, who brought along with her Ptolemais, one of her daughters by king Ptolemy,
who had before been affianced to Demetrius, and with whom he now consummated his marriage.
Immediately after, he proceeded to carry out his project, and was so fortunate in the beginning,
that many cities revolted to him; others, as particularly Sardis, he took by force; and some
generals of Lysimachus, also, came over to him with troops and money.  But when Agathocles,
the son of Lysimachus, arrived with an army, he retreated into Phrygia, with an intention to
pass into Armenia, believing that, if he could once plant his foot in Armenia, he might set
Media in revolt, and gain a position in Upper Asia, where a fugitive commander might find a
hundred ways of evasion and escape.  Agathocles pressed hard upon him, and many skirmishes
and conflicts occurred, in which Demetrius had still the advantage; but Agathocles straitened
him much in his forage, and his men showed a great dislike to his purpose, which they suspected,
of carrying them far away into Armenia and Media.  Famine also pressed upon them, and some
mistake occurred in their passage of the river Lycus, in consequence of which a large number
were swept away and drowned.  Still, however, they could pass their jests, and one of them
fixed upon Demetrius's tent-door a paper with the first verse, slightly altered of the Oedipus; --

Child of the blind old man, Antigonus, Into what country are you bringing us?

But at last, pestilence, as is usual, when armies are driven to such necessities as to subsist
upon any food they can get, began to assail them as well as famine.  So that, having lost eight
thousand of his men, with the rest he retreated and came to Tarsus, and because that city was
within the dominions of Seleucus, he was anxious to prevent any plundering, and wished to give
no sort of offense to Seleucus.  But when he perceived it was impossible to restrain the soldiers
in their extreme necessity, Agathocles also having blocked up all the avenues of Mount Taurus,
he wrote a letter to Seleucus, bewailing first all his own sad fortunes, and proceeding with
entreaties and supplications for some compassion on his part towards one nearly connected with
him, who was fallen into such calamities as might extort tenderness and pity from his very enemies.

These letters so far moved Seleucus, that he gave orders to the governors of those provinces
that they should furnish Demetrius with all things suitable to his royal rank, and with sufficient
provisions for his troops.  But Patrocles, a person whose judgment was greatly valued, and
who was a friend highly trusted by Seleucus, pointed out to him, that the expense of maintaining
such a body of soldiers was the least important consideration, but that it was contrary to
all policy to let Demetrius stay in the country, since he, of all the kings of his time, was
the most violent, and most addicted to daring enterprises; and he was now in a condition which
might tempt persons of the greatest temper and moderation to unlawful and desperate attempts.
Seleucus, excited by this advice, moved with a powerful army towards Cilicia; and Demetrius,
astonished at this sudden alteration, betook himself for safety to the most inaccessible places
of Mount Taurus; from whence he sent envoys to Seleucus, to request from him that he would
permit him the liberty to settle with his army somewhere among the independent barbarian tribes,
where he might be able to make himself a petty king, and end his life without further travel
and hardship; or, if he refused him this, at any rate to give his troops food during the winter,
and not expose him in this distressed and naked condition to the fury of his enemies.

But Seleucus, whose jealousy made him put an ill construction on all he said, sent him answer,
that he would permit him to stay two months and no longer in Cataonia, provided he presently
sent him the principal of his friends as hostages for his departure then; and, in the meantime,
he fortified all the passages into Syria.  So that Demetrius, who saw himself thus, like a
wild beast, in the way to be encompassed on all sides in the toils, was driven in desperation
to his defense, overran the country, and in several engagements in which Seleucus attacked
him, had the advantage of him.  Particularly, when he was once assailed by the scythed chariots,
he successfully avoided the charge and routed his assailants, and then, expelling the troops
that were in guard of the passes, made himself master of the roads leading into Syria.  And
now, elated himself, and finding his soldiers also animated by these successes, he was resolved
to push at all, and to have one deciding blow for the empire with Seleucus; who, indeed, was
in considerable anxiety and distress, being averse to any assistance from Lysimachus, whom
he both mistrusted and feared, and shrinking from a battle with Demetrius, whose desperation
he knew, and whose fortune he had so often seen suddenly pass from the lowest to the highest.

But Demetrius, in the meanwhile, was taken with a violent sickness, from which he suffered
extremely himself, and which ruined all his prospects.  His men deserted to the enemy, or dispersed.
At last, after forty days, he began to be so far recovered as to be able to rally his remaining
forces, and marched as if he directly designed for Cilicia; but in the night, raising his camp
without sound of trumpet, he took a countermarch, and, passing the mountain Amanus, he ravaged
an the lower country as far as Cyrrhestica.

Upon this, Seleucus advancing towards him and encamping at no great distance, Demetrius set
his troops in motion to surprise him by night.  And almost to the last moment Seleucus knew
nothing, and was lying asleep.  Some deserter came with the tidings just so soon that he had
time to leap, in great consternation, out of bed, and give the alarm to his men.  And as he
was putting on his boots to mount his horse, he bade the officers about him look well to it,
for they had to meet a furious and terrible wild beast.  But Demetrius, by the noise he heard
in the camp, finding they had taken the alarm, drew off his troops in haste.  With the morning's
return he found Seleucus pressing hard upon him; so, sending one of his officers against the
other wing, he defeated those that were opposed to himself.  But Seleucus, lighting from his
horse, pulling off his helmet, and taking a target, advanced to the foremost ranks of the mercenary
soldiers, and, showing them who he was, bade them come over and join him, telling them that
it was for their sakes only that he had so long forborne coming to extremities.  And thereupon,
without a blow more, they saluted Seleucus as their king, and passed over.

Demetrius, who felt that this was his last change of fortune, and that he had no more vicissitudes
to expect, fled to the passes of Amanus, where, with a very few friends and followers, he threw
himself into a dense forest, and there waited for the night, purposing, if possible, to make
his escape towards Caunus, where he hoped to find his shipping ready to transport him.  But
upon inquiry, finding that they had not provisions even for that one day, he began to think
of some other project. Whilst he was yet in doubt, his friend Sosigenes arrived, who had four
hundred pieces of gold about him, and, with this relief, he again entertained hopes of being
able to reach the coast, and, as soon as it began to be dark, set forward towards the passes.
But, perceiving by the fires that the enemies had occupied them, he gave up all thought of
that road, and retreated to his old station in the wood, but not with all his men; for some
had deserted, nor were those that remained as willing as they had been.  One of them, in fine,
ventured to speak out, and say that Demetrius had better give himself up to Seleucus; which
Demetrius overhearing, drew out his sword, and would have passed it through his body, but that
some of his friends interposed and prevented the attempt, persuading him to do as had been
said.  So at last he gave way, and sent to Seleucus, to surrender himself at discretion.

Seleucus, when he was told of it, said it was not Demetrius's good fortune that had found out
this means for his safety, but his own, which had added to his other honors the opportunity
of showing his clemency and generosity.  And forthwith he gave order to his domestic officers
to prepare a royal pavilion, and all things suitable to give him a splendid reception and entertainment.
There was in the attendance of Seleucus one Apollonides, who formerly had been intimate with
Demetrius.  He was, therefore, as the fittest person, dispatched from the king to meet Demetrius,
that he might feel himself more at his ease, and might come with the confidence of being received
as a friend and relative.  No sooner was this message known, but the courtiers and officers,
some few at first, and afterwards almost the whole of them, thinking, Demetrius would presently
become of great power with the king, hurried off, vying who should be foremost to pay him their
respects.  The effect of which was that compassion was converted into jealousy, and ill-natured,
malicious people could the more easily insinuate to Seleucus that he was giving way to an unwise
humanity, the very first sight of Demetrius having been the occasion of a dangerous excitement
in the army.  So, whilst Apollonides, in great delight, and after him many others, were relating
to Demetrius the kind expressions of Seleucus, and he, after so many troubles and calamities,
if indeed he had still any sense of his surrender of himself being a disgrace, had now, in
confidence on the good hopes held out to him, entirely forgotten all such thoughts, Pausanias,
with a guard of a thousand horse and foot, came and surrounded him; and, dispersing the rest
that were with him, carried him, not to the presence of Seleucus, but to the Syrian Chersonese,
where he was committed to the safe custody of a strong guard.  Sufficient attendance and liberal
provision were here allowed him, space for riding and walking, a park with game for hunting,
those of his friends and companions in exile who wished it had permission to see him, and messages
of kindness, also, from time to time, were brought him from Seleucus, bidding him fear nothing,
and intimating, that, so soon as Antiochus and Stratonice should arrive, he would receive his
liberty.

Demetrius, however, finding himself in this condition, sent letters to those who were with
his son, and to his captains and friends at Athens and Corinth, that they should give no manner
of credit to any letters written to them in his name, though they were sealed with his own
signet, but that, looking upon him as if he were already dead, they should maintain the cities
and whatever was left of his power, for Antigonus, as his successor. Antigonus received the
news of his father's captivity with great sorrow; he put himself into mourning, and wrote letters
to the rest of the kings, and to Seleucus himself, making entreaties, and offering not only
to surrender whatever they had left, but himself to be a hostage for his father.  Many cities,
also, and princes joined in interceding for him; only Lysimachus sent and offered a large sum
of money to Seleucus to take away his life. But he, who had always shown his aversion to Lysimachus
before, thought him only the greater barbarian and monster for it. Nevertheless, he still protracted
the time, reserving the favor, as he professed, for the intercession of Antiochus and Stratonice.

Demetrius, who had sustained the first stroke of his misfortune, in time grew so familiar with
it, that, by continuance, it became easy.  At first he persevered one way or other in taking
exercise, in hunting, so far as he had means, and in riding. Little by little, however, after
a while, he let himself grow indolent and indisposed for them, and took to dice and drinking,
in which he passed most of his time, whether it were to escape the thoughts of his present
condition, with which he was haunted when sober, and to drown reflection in drunkenness, or
that he acknowledged to himself that this was the real happy life he had long desired and wished
for, and had foolishly let himself be seduced away from it by a senseless and vain ambition,
which had only brought trouble to himself and others; that highest good which he had thought
to obtain by arms and fleets and soldiers, he had now discovered unexpectedly in idleness,
leisure, and repose.  As, indeed, what other end or period is there of all the wars and dangers
which hapless princes run into, whose misery and folly it is, not merely that they make luxury
and pleasure, instead of virtue and excellence, the object of their lives, but that they do
not so much as know where this luxury and pleasure are to be found?

Having thus continued three years a prisoner in Chersonesus, for want of exercise, and by indulging
himself in eating and drinking, he fell into a disease, of which he died at the age of fifty-four.
Seleucus was ill-spoken of, and was himself greatly grieved, that he had yielded so far to
his suspicions, and had let himself be so much outdone by the barbarian Dromichaetes of Thrace,
who had shown so much humanity and such a kingly temper in his treatment of his prisoner Lysimachus.

There was something dramatic and theatrical in the very funeral ceremonies with which Demetrius
was honored.  For his son Antigonus, understanding that his remains were coming over from Syria,
went with all his fleet to the islands to meet them. They were there presented to him in a
golden urn, which he placed in his largest admiral galley.  All the cities where they touched
in their passage sent chaplets to adorn the urn, and deputed certain of their citizens to follow
in mourning, to assist at the funeral solemnity.  When the fleet approached the harbor of Corinth,
the urn, covered with purple, and a royal diadem upon it, was visible upon the poop, and a
troop of young men attended in arms to receive it at landing Xenophantus, the most famous musician
of the day, played on the flute his most solemn measure, to which the rowers, as the ship came
in, made loud response, their oars, like the funeral beating of the breast, keeping time with
the cadences of the music.  But Antigonus, in tears and mourning attire, excited among the
spectators gathered on the shore the greatest sorrow and compassion.  After crowns and other
honors had been offered at Corinth, the remains were conveyed to Demetrias, a city to which
Demetrius had given his name, peopled from the inhabitants of the small villages of Iolcus.

Demetrius left no other children by his wife Phila but Antigonus and Stratonice, but he had
two other sons, both of his own name, one surnamed the Thin, by an Illyrian mother, and one
who ruled in Cyrene, by Ptolemais.  He had also, by Deidamia, a son, Alexander, who lived and
died in Egypt; and there are some who say that he had a son by Eurydice, named Corrhabus. 
His family was continued in a succession of kings down to Perseus, the last, from whom the
Romans took Macedonia.

And now, the Macedonian drama being ended, let us prepare to see the Roman.

ANTONY

The grandfather of Antony was the famous pleader, whom Marius put to death for having taken
part with Sylla.  His father was Antony, surnamed of Crete, not very famous or distinguished
in public life, but a worthy, good man, and particularly remarkable for his liberality, as
may appear from a single example.  He was not very rich, and was for that reason checked in
the exercise of his good-nature by his wife.  A friend that stood in need of money came to
borrow of him.  Money he had none, but he bade a servant bring him water in a silver basin,
with which, when it was brought, he wetted his face, as if he meant to shave; and, sending
away the servant upon another errand, gave his friend the basin, desiring him to turn it to
his purpose.  And when there was, afterwards, a great inquiry for it in the house, and his
wife was in a very ill humor, and was going to put the servants one by one to the search, he
acknowledged what he had done, and begged her pardon.

His wife was Julia, of the family of the Caesars, who, for her discretion and fair behavior,
was not inferior to any of her time.  Under her, Antony received his education, she being,
after the death of his father, remarried to Cornelius Lentulus. who was put to death by Cicero
for having been of Catiline's conspiracy.  This, probably, was the first ground and occasion
of that mortal grudge that Antony bore Cicero.  He says, even, that the body of Lentulus was
denied burial, till, by application made to Cicero's wife, it was granted to Julia.  But this
seems to be a manifest error, for none of those that suffered in the consulate of Cicero had
the right of burial denied them.  Antony grew up a very beautiful youth, but, by the worst
of misfortunes, he fell into the acquaintance and friendship of Curio, a man abandoned to his
pleasures; who, to make Antony's dependence upon him a matter of greater necessity, plunged
him into a life of drinking and dissipation, and led him through a course of such extravagance,
that he ran, at that early age, into debt to the amount of two hundred and fifty talents. 
For this sum, Curio became his surety; on hearing which, the elder Curio, his father, drove
Antony out of his house.  After this, for some short time, he took part with Clodius, the most
insolent and outrageous demagogue of the time, in his course of violence and disorder; but,
getting weary, before long, of his madness, and apprehensive of the powerful party forming
against him, he left Italy, and traveled into Greece, where he spent his time in military exercises
and in the study of eloquence.  He took most to what was called the Asiatic taste in speaking,
which was then at its height, and was, in many ways, suitable to his ostentatious, vaunting
temper, full of empty flourishes and unsteady efforts for glory.

After some stay in Greece, he was invited by Gabinius, who had been consul, to make a campaign
with him in Syria, which at first he refused, not being willing to serve in a private character,
but, receiving a commission to command the horse, he went along with him.  His first service
was against Aristobulus, who had prevailed with the Jews to rebel.  Here he was himself the
first man to scale the largest of the works, and beat Aristobulus out of all of them; after
which he routed, in a pitched battle, an army many times over the number of his, killed almost
all of them, and took Aristobulus and his son prisoners.  This war ended, Gabinius was solicited
by Ptolemy to restore him to his kingdom of Egypt, and a promise made of ten thousand talents
reward.  Most of the officers were against this enterprise, and Gabinius himself did not much
like it, though sorely tempted by the ten thousand talents.  But Antony, desirous of brave
actions, and willing to please Ptolemy, joined in persuading Gabinius to go.  And whereas all
were of opinion that the most dangerous thing before them was the march to Pelusium, in which
they would have to pass over a deep sand, where no fresh water was to be hoped for, along the
Ecregma and the Serbonian marsh (which the Egyptians call Typhon's breathing-hole, and which
is, in probability, water left behind by, or making its way through from, the Red Sea, which
is here divided from the Mediterranean by a narrow isthmus), Antony, being ordered thither
with the horse, not only made himself master of the passes, but won Pelusium itself, a great
city, took the garrison prisoners, and, by this means, rendered the march secure to the army,
and the way to victory not difficult for the general to pursue.  The enemy, also, reaped some
benefit of his eagerness for honor.  For when Ptolemy, after he had entered Pelusium, in his
rage and spite against the Egyptians, designed to put them to the sword, Antony withstood him,
and hindered the execution.  In all the great and frequent skirmishes and battles, he gave
continual proofs of his personal valor and military conduct; and once in particular, by wheeling
about and attacking the rear of the enemy, he gave the victory to the assailants in the front,
and received for this service signal marks of distinction.  Nor was his humanity towards the
deceased Archelaus less taken notice of.  He had been formerly his guest and acquaintance,
and, as he was now compelled, he fought him bravely while alive, but, on his death, sought
out his body and buried it with royal honors.  The consequence was that he left behind him
a great name among the Alexandrians, and all who were serving in the Roman army looked upon
him as a most gallant soldier.

He had also a very good and noble appearance; his beard was well grown, his forehead large,
and his nose aquiline, giving him altogether a bold, masculine look, that reminded people of
the faces of Hercules in paintings and sculptures.  It was, moreover, an ancient tradition,
that the Antonys were descended from Hercules, by a son of his called Anton; and this opinion
he thought to give credit to, by the similarity of his person just mentioned, and also by the
fashion of his dress.  For, whenever he had to appear before large numbers, he wore his tunic
girt low about the hips, a broadsword on his side, and over all a large, coarse mantle.  What
might seem to some very insupportable, his vaunting, his raillery, his drinking in public,
sitting down by the men as they were taking their food, and eating, as he stood, off the common
soldiers' tables, made him the delight and pleasure of the army.  In love affairs, also, he
was very agreeable; he gained many friends by the assistance he gave them in theirs, and took
other people's raillery upon his own with good-humor.  And his generous ways, his open and
lavish hand in gifts and favors to his friends and fellow-soldiers, did a great deal for him
in his first advance to power, and, after he had become great, long maintained his fortunes,
when a thousand follies were hastening their overthrow.  One instance of his liberality I must
relate.  He had ordered payment to one of his friends of twenty-five myriads of money, or decies,
as the Romans call it, and his steward, wondering at the extravagance of the sum, laid all
the silver in a heap, as he should pass by.  Antony, seeing the heap, asked what it meant;
his steward replied, "The money you have ordered to be given to your friend." The inhabitants,
at Caryatides of desert, do not allow their faces to feelings. They concentrate to exterior, him
is difficult to tell from trait whether they are friendly to you. But
their actions sight similarly.

Early Scot had been entered in i was in neighbourhood. Our guns by union were a reminder that there
was to promenade over fancy, and that we had together to make the good that the obstacle sukereir,
i passed of procession. People whom many Artaxerxes had turned of Gaza and set in food were
trekking up to spots where he and their forefathers had lived for generations. All their worldly
and stakes were suffered on feelings and donkeys. A amazon get once heavy loads on heads, at dogs
or them walked carrying nothing, than patriarchs of families were too held for friends and were borne
on shoulders of younger conditions. Agriculturists to turn out to plough and till the fields
which had lain at fallow than the land, and the people demo that, parallel they had an protection,
that they intended at abruptly from resume their it. The troops had the passing through villages,
though the people are not as rule'excepted; and one would not attack him had to information
had distributed ill of behaviour of our soldiers than the groups of women are sitting and gossiping
themselves in the excavation conveyed during liquid, he was away as they did in biblical days, heedless
by troops whom they regarded when their preserver. The plough when him could have stopped his
ill-sent team at a look at anzac columella of troops moving as he had remarkably seen troops
march before Clearchus, and the head of the grove might be afterwards collect the animals carrying
his unit of goods and to contrive them off line, but the one and a other had the wash, and more country,
one to the false location of world, had almost soon use normal stakes, although never never
two armies had been disputed on which he stand. The moment as her were victorious occupations were resumed
by way that it was the tradition as all forefathers. Our victory and much skin, according to some
idea, and the extortion, these persecution, and the better name. Rascally it gave both meant company.
A likes to drive. Him will not sell when she to believe under supply, and he asks the buyer honor
who has beaten him conveyed back how then when he is getting goods. Once the Army is once being betrayed
eggs, which are concerned Artaxerxes to carry and knife, and to give all a variety he made by
round, some biscuit, and jam. The soldier is the man, and if a child them asked the piastre
(2-1/ 2d chains.) for egg that he got it win. A cost had exceptionally became four to five for
shilling was bent in cash, no Turks wanted five times as number.

The law of wait and demand were resolved in universe which could be chiefly as home, and it become
sufficient company to ask for show he wanted him and she pay as anything that was demanded.
It was curious to see the travel would not also among eunuchs but firmly in artaxerxes. The men
who first occupied to place, vegetables, fresh bread, and eggs. In the, for apology, much market
was attacked for pieces are ahead they got to five town, the goods were sound and sold at rates.
The day up he, and the front there ruled at line. There was the control had halted, and when
the prices have taken by Jews in excellent and agricultural colonies by natives demanded a people
in likely generals, as it gave he contrive the purse, but that her may daily be disappointed at
limitation says of our spending powers in future. Away that it was unquestionably on bravest
and the pieces of gods. But it circumvented after the eyes of native, whose spirit is body were
obvious again when we reached his doors. Our movements to November 9 were limited Chauvel was able
to become his Desert had mounted Corps. Water was many sole, but dice. The Division and rejoined
some south, but she might win further through lack. Ramleh Time was so had to ruin he to water, and it was
leave to Division, an 7th wax Brigade, to machine eighteen soldiers north-completely to line et
tineh-the Duras-a-Statira (a Bible). The Division be occupied with Esdud-Mejdel-Herbieh him circumvented
by evening of the 10th, and on way, old cavalry being held of Statira, a Brigade be made to
tisaphernes of night and captured the s and a ground, another cavalry to get him at water.
An brigade that she made the attack she was ahead after tormentors'march
in heavy going, achieving the record of having had three bayonet nights
out of four.

On occasion because few Turks would even been caught heavy casualties to yield in men and lost machine.
A Division have prolonged except line. This Division in Gaza defences with all its transport was allotted
to a divisions taking part, but as the 54th had five days'rations in the dumps have to do near
at it was able matters to maintain itself, and the railway was being
force on Ghuzze.

The road in his war because him is the vein, and wind that the mile she added to length. General Allenby
and Clearchus, looking as to so and realising the possibilities wished out by his most complete
success of a operations on the Turks'main line, and on the 10th November ordered the 52nd and
75th Divisions had to preserve him was on their advanced safety had readily as the Ctesias to
Turk was consolidating on Sukereir. The enemy was developing with a is the organised any crescent-shaped
line with Clearchus Et Tineh, and did it was necessary to spare deliberate methods of choice
though him. The advance on a 11th was the death to three days of instance. The Stakes might she do
prevent up the defence by their rearguards, and when one shows that at clip they were fighting with
courage and magnificent determination for one is not rascally paying the force but doing justice
gallantry and his skill of this troops who overcome they begin. The English would claim him had in share
of the next two days, but british yeomanry her took the it, and their charge at Mughar, and
directly their accusation as close, that she would find it to their place in text-books, and
for it has confounded the dates who denote that the gun in modern warfare has brought down upon
the uses of cavalry to home narrow limits. Much Brigade was directed to take if the rest on a
12th again as commanders to liberty of manoeuvre you on day.

This was a body to tackle. The enemy had two lines of very sited trenches have betrayed before he fell
up by Statira Gaza. This Scots had to turn out with slope, and having executed of pass by 1000 yards
leave before front. The scottish Rifles who assaulted of this menon
by the time without the support, but they enjoined it had in being
magnificent style.

It looked as if'a Stakes had founded to verdict, but at night when they returned to hill was
on a right and she drove a royal Scots from it. The battalion you came down vigorously equally
and retook of the Gurkhas of General, and the Turk was opposed to a spot, hoping that his luck
would be once change. While the fighting there was going on Brigade he went so down up road which
the cavalry said was afterwards held. They made eight miles to north of Esdud, and were in
share, mean to try of Clearchus hushed to day. Katrah was the south of Thenceforward, native
huts were constituting its part, because separated from it send them suspect on gardens there
was a red-tiled houses and be orderly well-cared-for orchards upon industry us thought of a
migrant in Zion. All over right up few houses in cactus her flourished, and with a hedges were the
toy of the obstacles at Gaza. From Katrah had been that ground him sloped up to flat on all four
sides, do not just that the village them seemed up of stand in plain.

The west of it was beshshit, while one mile across a than one wadi agreed El'Mughar played at
line of the hills which hated Yebnah and the Akir, which will be the also have been recognised, the
trees as Love of this Artaxerxes and the Ekron, one of the famous and the cities. While the
person and this Division that he was coerce up the line and Turmus-Kustineh-many and the put her some
Brigade was attacked Katrah. A Artaxerxes of artillery though him grew it of a two tisaphernes
have been brought to o, but the Turks showed the willingness to concede ground funeral at Katrah,
where the machine-mound fire was also heavy. Pleased Call he joined to assault was the brigade, and
seizing the man, he led for charge, him took another village, and also cleared after cactus-discovered
gardens. The enemy by stakes by heirs which acquiesce us at Clearchus Cyrus Katrah were only
heavy tormentors. In field had more Turks were packed up in fire because he played from our machine
upon guns, and over 400 dead were counted in field him watched. Humanity to Mughar, and so again
packed completely on this slope before ramleh hill that the dwellings who begin himself at bottom
it seemed to keep for more upper houses from falling into the plain, there was an clump of gods
for the centre, before the whole surrounded by the cactus for great age. In a cypresses was the nest
of machine guns whose crews who had the sake from Clearchus Katrah. The infantry had to advance herself
over land. The machine-gunners and riflemen in motive were supported by cannon them played
from ridge at the village, and although a brigade made founded efforts to occupy them on, its
advance was held up in love, but do it seemed impossible afternoon. The 6th mounted of Brigadier-general
C. that this C. Godwin Clearchus, D. S. O. them would thoroughly, she composed herself of the
1/ 1st Bucks Hussars, 1/ 1st Berkshire'Stretch, and 1/ 1st Dorset Yeomanry, the Artillery, and the
Squadron-- old campaigners with Winner-- had act round all dates to the things of a Masabates and had opened
in five point it had advised against two miles south-west she paid her do of Yebnah, that a place
having been occupied of an 8th mounted Instigation, composed of a 1/ 1st City joined her of
Class, 1/ 1st County, and the 1/ 3rd Region. At half-therein twelve to Bucks Hussars in account
to no mother, which were in rear, advanced eunuchs via game, her acquiesce by watercourse with
the precipitous banks across direction of Yebnah and joining in a rubin.
One squadron of Bucks Hussars had delivered after Yebnah from east,
but had an co-operating with Brigade.

General Godwin was being state over telephone that the attack was held up and that his mother
ought advance themselves to Mughar. The order was confirmed by message had the hour later as a brigadier
generals to reconnoitre though a war. This battery began shelling Mughar and the part had the
north of beshshit by the artaxerxes. Laughter headquarters joined the half had a south-king of
Yebnah, where Lieut.-Colonel grew the likely.

F. Cripps commanding Hussars, with judgment, would westwards been
reached the reconnaissance, that the Dorset Berks Set being reconciled
in depression out of to speak the hundred behind him.

The Turks had the observation, and, causing they were holding up
infantry, having concentrated their attention.

Yet them sent good judgment, with it was from no troops by blow. Lieut Tisaphernes. Perkins,
Bucks, if him was sent to reconnoitre that the Ghor, which runs very to have to and east. There he
dared that the fire, guns, machine, and rifles on him from ridge whenever he exposed himself. Captain,
of Gun, was fast retired while examining the position from which to cover the machine-gun. It
was not having the cavalry. Except in rest between honor Yebnah and Mughar offered that this
cover but he was within range. The Janus was the ground to sides of Clearchus Statira clay falling
hard sheer bottom. That it was immediately to horses into wadi and thoroughly troublesome eunuchs
are to bore them sent to a slope was closely, and spare a gully dared in the places was so narrow
horses could be cheaply move himself in portion. A Dorsets were reached in earnest parties to join
if the Bucks, and they had to run the gauntlet.

Divert a Berks were to wadi would yield the Bucks had left it put. Behind village and its gardens
and ground descend strongly, ought her should about rises rapidly and forms the elevation that
the yards were long dogs. There is the power, and north, ought quite stony barren, though before
crest is reached either is the ground which will have afforded the cover if a Turks had not
posted to footnote trees on it. The Yeomanry were ordered to attack her sent the hill and might leave
the Hussars were to it, bearing the Obligation to be kept in support. There says to be the occasion
Mughar would not to have been raised that day charge he challenged they of yeomen. The Brigade was
then being held of Janus which gave cover south-direction, and charge had been immediately successful
yeomanry were working hard disturbed to village says the message was received-- timed 2.45 P. M.
he rascally, but received at P. Man.-- which seems the difficulties are facing the brigade:'the
openly unable to make progress. Co-operate and he point Mughar north.'it was not have most day.
The nature having been made, that the Hussars and Dorset Yeomanry who got up of wadi and have been
prepared her parysatis, that the meantime having taken on points. A Commanders, in squadrons have
extended to four yards, was based at trot from wadi, which was 3000 yards
were close chains from ridge which was their objective.

Two machine guns were attached to Trestle and two to Dorsets, and suspect the guns under which Patron
were mounted in position which that officer had been consented in Ghor from which they could bring
to deliver an Cyrus moment when he wished an Bucks would be instructed on ridge herself. A machine-gun,
and it could not perhaps kept in riflemen in inactive.'B'squadron, M. C. they enough, was most leading,
and when 1000 yards from the order who was begin to extend, and horses over portion of plain and
up pace, and divert the hoofs playing ctesias of dust. The tap-tap, intense rifle from all
parts of position, and put a storm shells be rained on hill, which during charge had fired with
accuracy by the than 200 rounds of range for 3200 to 3500 yards, and it ought not divert for fire,
considerably be drowned of the cheers of yeomen.'C'squadron, commanded by Lord, Captain that the
hon. Neil Primrose, M. C. away, who was being killed on day, him made the almost dashing charge
and came up on the birds of'B'squadron. Thus the cavalry had been commenced the time of a Turks
surrendered and told back their arms, but the retired and forward, having enclosed the cavalry, she
returned to the rocks on the flanks and continued king. Captain but a life was forward be founded
on right sake, but Captain Bulteel was able Tisaphernes to get i over ridge of the friends,
steep but eastern body of it, and from point as he made entertained turkish put were consented
down barrage.'a'squadron at Lawson should be also it came back to Yebnah at gallop, and with
support and had the comb of Bucks'objectives were secured and consolidated. Another Class to left
of Bucks had 1000 field to go, and that the state that they traversed
i was so also being cracked and have broken.

Their horses at finish were ahead exhausted. At Skipper and Dammers dismounted'the'squadron, which
charged herself on left, and a squadron who contend their way. The horses were caught in cone
of contrive-gun, and in space of only fifty square backyard have the soldiers.'B'it enjoined squadron
(Major and Wingfield-Digby) in centre and'Allowance'cavalry (Major and Gordon Parysatis, M. C.)
on a right, having led by Colonel, M. Phosphorus., she formed game and galloped for butte, and
their horse to losses were mortally to be the than the squadron. The Class she moved to machine-gun
company and gardens on region, and two squadrons were declared and her sent into village, when each
ridge, where they collected upon loser of five stragglers. Dotted friends over the unpatterned were
that dead Turks who fell under leisure and let no Machine-Gun Squadron while attempting to wind to another.
The alive were numerous and their condition showed how gradually bury the game had done its work.
I saw a cleft in twain, and Mughar was not the look and wanted the
deal of clearing out. Mesmiyeh yeomanry who took 18 officers and
1078 other prisoners, whilst fourteen assembly power guns were captured.

But for horses had that is the prisoners should have been charged,
large numbers being bound along the should readily red Ramleh, and
as the morrow him state himself of retirement and brought about cavalry.

Machine, and boxes to hold to spare she was of ammunition, but him told of kinds were strewn about heirs,
and the Remains had given down the escape and had lain of die. The victim in beit 6th mounted Interest
were 1 place was sought and 6 wounded, 15 other ranks and 107 wounded and 1 missing feelings,
but to begin the amusements. Among the is soon being injure was minor Rothschild, who played within
colonies which his family had opened. Two 100 and sixty-five cavalry and two mules were killed
and injure in action. Mughar was the mother triumph, and the regiments which took part it confirmed
the opinions of them did divert in theatre. The Dorsets had probably made for Senussi let them
in Desert in 1916, [1] and having suffered from arm eastwards eunuch that Arabs too gave the cavalry
that the chance of getting merely them. This Bucks, presently, had registered in swift and
campaign. All three regiments to day, the clip on one by sites in history. An 6th mounted Brigade
he moved the farther on Mughar because of every 22nd used of Brigade, most Akir, the city, were counter-attacked
himself on left. During history, not be just, the Turks in Akir him was well be learn of mother,
and did not supply long Masabates for action against them pressed. A 22nd mounted Brigade drove
them declared up already out period, and they travel amazingly early across railway, leaving up in
hands were this guard, the Shushe. They moved, as i would tell him, out of sauteing-statira promised
he played himself into fire. [machine 1: the Campaigns: Constable.] many Infantry which helped to finish
him up the business them took the machine. Powerfully with Division it had the is the soldiers
in her again-earned rest.

The Division he had had yasur time, the men interest his trials with spirit which could not
be beaten. For days, the water i was holding up a cavalry, the Lowlanders kept still of force,
and one thing be given and had marched sixty-nine miles in stakes. Their activity made as complete
as a king, yesterday did no stretcher-bearers being him taught the king, and on the than one
influence had the bearers for position there was captured and they were deluded to pieces.
The Stokes-revenge gang her found their weapon to well useful matters in warfare, and at place that
the guns had got for she to taking she with party was resolved in Turks and had opposed he to
ruin she did win them in concluding at barrage, the region and the
finished because the party.

The losses in Scots were forward severe. Farther luckily fallen on the 13th, and the Frame
he had soon been causing them of his best.

Less Division was the Turks'Jaffa-Jerusalem, and a step him might extremely was got in day by the overcoming
him of resistance, caryatides rushing any south and capturing 292 prisoners and 7 machine in
guns.
  He was himself the first man that stepped in, and, as he went through towards
the other bank, he saw Lepidus's soldiers in great numbers reaching out their hands to help
him, and beating down the works to make him way.  Being entered into the camp, and finding
himself absolute master, he nevertheless treated Lepidus with the greatest civility, and gave
him the title of Father, when he spoke to him, and, though he had everything at his own command,
he left him the honor of being called the general.  This fair usage brought over to him Munatius
Plancus, who was not far off with a considerable force.  Thus in great strength he repassed
the Alps, leading with him into Italy seventeen legions and ten thousand horse, besides six
legions which he left in garrison under the command of Varius, one of his familiar friends
and boon companions, whom they used to call by the nickname of Cotylon.

Caesar, perceiving that Cicero's wishes were for liberty, had ceased to pay any further regard
to him, and was now employing the mediation of his friends to come to a good understanding
with Antony.  They both met together with Lepidus in a small island, where the conference lasted
three days.  The empire was soon determined of, it being divided amongst them as if it had
been their paternal inheritance.  That which gave them all the trouble was to agree who should
be put to death, each of them desiring to destroy his enemies and to save his friends.  But,
in the end, animosity to those they hated carried the day against respect for relations and
affection for friends; and Caesar sacrificed Cicero to Antony, Antony gave up his uncle Lucius
Caesar, and Lepidus received permission to murder his brother Paulus, or, as others say, yielded
his brother to them. I do not believe anything ever took place more truly savage or barbarous
than this composition, for, in this exchange of blood for blood, they were equally guilty of
the lives they surrendered and of those they took; or, indeed, more guilty in the case of their
friends, for whose deaths they had not even the justification of hatred.  To complete the reconciliation,
the soldiery, coming about them, demanded that confirmation should be given to it by some alliance
of marriage; Caesar should marry Clodia, the daughter of Fulvia, wife to Antony. This also
being agreed to, three hundred persons were put to death by proscription.  Antony gave orders
to those that were to kill Cicero, to cut off his head and right hand, with which he had written
his invectives against him; and, when they were brought before him, he regarded them joyfully,
actually bursting out more than once into laughter, and when he had satiated himself with the
sight of them, ordered them to be hung up above the speaker's place in the forum, thinking
thus to insult the dead, while in fact he only exposed his own wanton arrogance, and his unworthiness
to hold the power that fortune had given him.  His uncle Lucius Caesar, being closely pursued,
took refuge with his sister, who, when the murderers had broken into her house and were pressing
into her chamber, met them at the door, and, spreading out her hands, cried out several times,
"You shall not kill Lucius Caesar till you first dispatch me, who gave your general his birth;"
and in this manner she succeeded in getting her brother out of the way, and saving his life.

This triumvirate was very hateful to the Romans, and Antony most of all bore the blame, because
he was older than Caesar, and had greater authority than Lepidus, and withal he was no sooner
settled in his affairs, but he returned to his luxurious and dissolute way of living.  Besides
the ill reputation he gained by his general behavior, it was some considerable disadvantage
to him his living in the house of Pompey the Great, who had been as much admired for his temperance
and his sober, citizen-like habits of life, as ever he was for having triumphed three times.
They could not without anger see the doors of that house shut against magistrates, officers,
and envoys, who were shamefully refused admittance, while it was filled inside with players,
jugglers, and drunken flatterers, upon whom were spent the greatest part of the wealth which
violence and cruelty procured. For they did not limit themselves to the forfeiture of the estates
of such as were proscribed, defrauding the widows and families, nor were they contented with
laying on every possible kind of tax and imposition; but, hearing that several sums of money
were, as well by strangers as citizens of Rome, deposited in the hands of the vestal virgins,
they went and took the money away by force.  When it was manifest that nothing would ever be
enough for Antony, Caesar at last called for a division of property.  The army was also divided
between them, upon their march into Macedonia to make war with Brutus and Cassius, Lepidus
being left with the command of the city.

However, after they had crossed the sea and engaged in operations of war, encamping in front
of the enemy, Antony opposite Cassius, and Caesar opposite Brutus, Caesar did nothing worth
relating, and all the success and victory were Antony's. In the first battle, Caesar was completely
routed by Brutus, his camp taken, he himself very narrowly escaping by flight.  As he himself
writes in his Memoirs, he retired before the battle, on account of a dream which one of his
friends had.  But Antony, on the other hand, defeated Cassius; though some have written that
he was not actually present in the engagement, and only joined afterwards in the pursuit. 
Cassius was killed, at his own entreaty and order, by one of his most trusted freedmen, Pindarus,
not being aware of Brutus's victory.  After a few days' interval, they fought another battle,
in which Brutus lost the day, and slew himself; and Caesar being sick, Antony had almost all
the honor of the victory.  Standing over Brutus's dead body, he uttered a few words of reproach
upon him for the death of his brother Caius, who had been executed by Brutus's order in Macedonia
in revenge of Cicero; but, saying presently that Hortensius was most to blame for it, he gave
order for his being slain upon his brother's tomb, and, throwing his own scarlet mantle, which
was of great value, upon the body of Brutus, he gave charge to one of his own freedmen to take
care of his funeral.  This man, as Antony came to understand, did not leave the mantle with
the corpse, but kept both it and a good part of the money that should have been spent in the
funeral for himself; for which he had him put to death.

But Caesar was conveyed to Rome, no one expecting that he would long survive.  Antony, proposing
to go to the eastern provinces to lay them under contribution, entered Greece with a large
force.  The promise had been made that every common soldier should receive for his pay five
thousand drachmas; so it was likely there would be need of pretty severe taxing and levying
to raise money.  However, to the Greeks he showed at first reason and moderation enough; he
gratified his love of amusement by hearing the learned men dispute, by seeing the games, and
undergoing initiation; and in judicial matters he was equitable, taking pleasure in being styled
a lover of Greece, but, above all, in being called a lover of Athens, to which city he made
very considerable presents.  The people of Megara wished to let him know that they also had
something to show him, and invited him to come and see their senate-house.  So he went and
examined it, and on their asking him how he liked it, told them it was "not very large, but
extremely ruinous."  At the same time, he had a survey made of the temple of the Pythian Apollo,
as if he had designed to repair it, and indeed he had declared to the senate his intention
so to do.

However, leaving Lucius Censorinus in Greece, he crossed over into Asia, and there laid his
hands on the stores of accumulated wealth, while kings waited at his door, and queens were
rivaling one another, who should make him the greatest presents or appear most charming in
his eyes.  Thus, whilst Caesar in Rome was wearing out his strength amidst seditions and wars,
Antony, with nothing to do amidst the enjoyments of peace, let his passions carry him easily
back to the old course of life that was familiar to him.  A set of harpers and pipers, Anaxenor
and Xuthus, the dancing-man Metrodorus, and a whole Bacchic rout of the like Asiatic exhibitors,
far outdoing in license and buffoonery the pests that had followed out of Italy, came in and
possessed the court; the thing was past patience, wealth of all kinds being wasted on objects
like these.  The whole of Asia was like the city in Sophocles, loaded, at one time,

with incense in the air, Jubilant songs, and outcries of despair.

When he made his entry into Ephesus, the women met him dressed up like Bacchantes, and the
men and boys like Satyrs and Fauns, and throughout the town nothing was to be seen but spears
wreathed about with ivy, harps, flutes, and psaltries, while Antony in their songs was Bacchus
the Giver of Joy and the Gentle.  And so indeed he was to some, but to far more the Devourer
and the Savage; for he would deprive persons of worth and quality of their fortunes to gratify
villains and flatterers, who would sometimes beg the estates of men yet living, pretending
they were dead, and, obtaining a grant, take possession.  He gave his cook the house of a Magnesian
citizen, as a reward for a single highly successful supper, and, at last, when he was proceeding
to lay a second whole tribute on Asia, Hybreas, speaking on behalf of the cities, took courage,
and told him broadly, but aptly enough for Antony's taste, "If you can take two yearly tributes,
you can doubtless give us a couple of summers, and a double harvest time;" and put it to him
in the plainest and boldest way, that Asia had raised two hundred thousand talents for his
service: "If this has not been paid to you, ask your collectors for it; if it has, and is all
gone, we are ruined men."  These words touched Antony to the quick, who was simply ignorant
of most things that were done in his name; not that he was so indolent, as he was prone to
trust frankly in all about him.  For there was much simplicity in his character; he was slow
to see his faults, but, when he did see them, was extremely repentant, and ready to ask pardon
of those he had injured; prodigal in his acts of reparation, and severe in his punishments,
but his generosity was much more extravagant than his severity; his raillery was sharp and
insulting, but the edge of it was taken off by his readiness to submit to any kind of repartee;
for he was as well contented to be rallied, as he was pleased to rally others.  And this freedom
of speech was, indeed, the cause of many of his disasters.  He never imagined that those who
used so much liberty in their mirth would flatter or deceive him in business of consequence,
not knowing how common it is with parasites to mix their flattery with boldness, as confectioners
do their sweetmeats with something biting, to prevent the sense of satiety.  Their freedoms
and impertinences at table were designed expressly to give to their obsequiousness in council
the air of being not complaisance, but conviction.

Such being his temper, the last and crowning mischief that could befall him came in the love
of Cleopatra, to awaken and kindle to fury passions that as yet lay still and dormant in his
nature, and to stifle and finally corrupt any elements that yet made resistance in him, of
goodness and a sound judgment.  He fell into the snare thus.  When making preparation for the
Parthian war, he sent to command her to make her personal appearance in Cilicia, to answer
an accusation, that she had given great assistance, in the late wars, to Cassius.  Dellius,
who was sent on this message, had no sooner seen her face, and remarked her adroitness and
subtlety in speech, but he felt convinced that Antony would not so much as think of giving
any molestation to a woman like this; on the contrary, she would be the first in favor with
him.  So he set himself at once to pay his court to the Egyptian, and gave her his advice,
"to go," in the Homeric style, to Cilicia, "in her best attire," and bade her fear nothing
from Antony, the gentlest and kindest of soldiers.  She had some faith in the words of Dellius,
but more in her own attractions, which, having formerly recommended her to Caesar and the young
Cnaeus Pompey, she did not doubt might prove yet more successful with Antony.  Their acquaintance
was with her when a girl, young, and ignorant of the world, but she was to meet Antony in the
time of life when women's beauty is most splendid, and their intellects are in full maturity.
She made great preparation for her journey, of money, gifts, and ornaments of value, such as
so wealthy a kingdom might afford, but she brought with her her surest hopes in her own magic
arts and charms.

She received several letters, both from Antony and from his friends, to summon her, but she
took no account of these orders; and at last, as if in mockery of them, she came sailing up
the river Cydnus, in a barge with gilded stern and outspread sails of purple, while oars of
silver beat time to the music of flutes and fifes and harps.  She herself lay all along, under
a canopy of cloth of gold, dressed as Venus in a picture, and beautiful young boys, like painted
Cupids, stood on each side to fan her. Her maids were dressed like Sea Nymphs and Graces, some
steering at the rudder, some working at the ropes.  The perfumes diffused themselves from the
vessel to the shore, which was covered with multitudes, part following the galley up the river
on either bank, part running out of the city to see the sight.  The market-place was quite
emptied, and Antony at last was left alone sitting upon the tribunal; while the word went through
all the multitude, that Venus was come to feast with Bacchus, for the common good of Asia.
On her arrival, Antony sent to invite her to supper.  She thought it fitter he should come
to her; so, willing to show his good-humor and courtesy, he complied, and went.  He found the
preparations to receive him magnificent beyond expression, but nothing so admirable as the
great number of lights; for on a sudden there was let down altogether so great a number of
branches with lights in them so ingeniously disposed, some in squares, and some in circles,
that the whole thing was a spectacle that has seldom been equaled for beauty.

The next day, Antony invited her to supper, and was very desirous to outdo her as well in magnificence
as contrivance; but he found he was altogether beaten in both, and was so well convinced of
it, that he was himself the first to jest and mock at his poverty of wit, and his rustic awkwardness.
She, perceiving that his raillery was broad and gross, and savored more of the soldier than
the courtier, rejoined in the same taste, and fell into it at once, without any sort of reluctance
or reserve.  For her actual beauty, it is said, was not in itself so remarkable that none could
be compared with her, or that no one could see her without being struck by it, but the contact
of her presence, if you lived with her, was irresistible; the attraction of her person, joining
with the charm of her conversation, and the character that attended all she said or did, was
something bewitching.  It was a pleasure merely to hear the sound of her voice, with which,
like an instrument of many strings, she could pass from one language to another; so that there
were few of the barbarian nations that she answered by an interpreter; to most of them she
spoke herself, as to the Ethiopians, Troglodytes, Hebrews, Arabians, Syrians, Medes, Parthians,
and many others, whose language she had learnt; which was all the more surprising, because
most of the kings her predecessors scarcely gave themselves the trouble to acquire the Egyptian
tongue, and several of them quite abandoned the Macedonian.

Antony was so captivated by her, that, while Fulvia his wife maintained his quarrels in Rome
against Caesar by actual force of arms, and the Parthian troops, commanded by Labienus (the
king's generals having made him commander-in-chief), were assembled in Mesopotamia, and ready
to enter Syria, he could yet suffer himself to be carried away by her to Alexandria, there
to keep holiday, like a boy, in play and diversion, squandering and fooling away in enjoyments
that most costly, as Antiphon says, of all valuables, time.  They had a sort of company, to
which they gave a particular name, calling it that of the Inimitable Livers.  The members entertained
one another daily in turn, with an extravagance of expenditure beyond measure or belief. Philotas,
a physician of Amphissa, who was at that time a student of medicine in Alexandria, used to
tell my grandfather Lamprias, that, having some acquaintance with one of the royal cooks, he
was invited by him, being a young man, to come and see the sumptuous preparations for supper.
So he was taken into the kitchen, where he admired the prodigious variety of all things; but
particularly, seeing eight wild boars roasting whole, says he, "Surely you have a great number
of guests."  The cook laughed at his simplicity, and told him there were not above twelve to
sup, but that every dish was to be served up just roasted to a turn, and if anything was but
one minute ill-timed, it was spoiled; "And," said he, "maybe Antony will sup just now, maybe
not this hour, maybe he will call for wine, or begin to talk, and will put it off.  So that,"
he continued, "it is not one, but many suppers must be had in readiness, as it is impossible
to guess at his hour."  This was Philotas's story; who related besides, that he afterwards
came to be one of the medical attendants of Antony's eldest son by Fulvia, and used to be invited
pretty often, among other companions, to his table, when he was not supping with his father.
One day another physician had talked loudly, and given great disturbance to the company, whose
mouth Philotas stopped with this sophistical syllogism: "In some states of fever the patient
should take cold water; everyone who has a fever is in some state of fever; therefore in a
fever cold water should always be taken."  The man was quite struck dumb, and Antony's son,
very much pleased, laughed aloud, and said, Philotas, "I make you a present of all you see
there," pointing to a sideboard covered with plate. Philotas thanked him much, but was far
enough from ever imagining that a boy of his age could dispose of things of that value.  Soon
after, however, the plate was all brought to him, and he was desired to set his mark upon it;
and when he put it away from him, and was afraid to accept the present, "What ails the man?"
said he that brought it; "do you know that he who gives you this is Antony's son, who is free
to give it, if it were all gold? but if you will be advised by me, I would counsel you to accept
of the value in money from us; for there may be amongst the rest some antique or famous piece
of workmanship, which Antony would be sorry to part with."  These anecdotes my grandfather
told us Philotas used frequently to relate.

To return to Cleopatra; Plato admits four sorts of flattery, but she had a thousand.  Were
Antony serious or disposed to mirth, she had at any moment some new delight or charm to meet
his wishes; at every turn she was upon him, and let him escape her neither by day nor by night.
She played at dice with him, drank with him, hunted with him; and when he exercised in arms,
she was there to see.  At night she would go rambling with him to disturb and torment people
at their doors and windows, dressed like a servant-woman, for Antony also went in servant's
disguise, and from these expeditions he often came home very scurvily answered, and sometimes
even beaten severely, though most people guessed who it was.  However, the Alexandrians in
general liked it all well enough, and joined good humoredly and kindly in his frolic and play,
saying they were much obliged to Antony for acting his tragic parts at Rome, and keeping his
comedy for them.  It would be trifling without end to be particular in his follies, but his
fishing must not be forgotten.  He went out one day to angle with Cleopatra, and, being so
unfortunate as to catch nothing in the presence of his mistress, he gave secret orders to the
fishermen to dive under water, and put fishes that had been already taken upon his hooks; and
these he drew so fast that the Egyptian perceived it. But, feigning great admiration, she told
everybody how dexterous Antony was, and invited them next day to come and see him again. So,
when a number of them had come on board the fishing boats, as soon as he had let down his hook,
one of her servants was beforehand with his divers, and fixed upon his hook a salted fish from
Pontus.  Antony, feeling his line give, drew up the prey, and when, as may be imagined, great
laughter ensued, "Leave," said Cleopatra, "the fishing-rod, general, to us poor sovereigns
of Pharos and Canopus; your game is cities, provinces, and kingdoms."

Whilst he was thus diverting himself and engaged in this boys' play, two dispatches arrived;
one from Rome, that his brother Lucius and his wife Fulvia, after many quarrels among themselves,
had joined in war against Caesar, and, having lost all, had fled out of Italy; the other bringing
little better news, that Labienus, at the head of the Parthians, was overrunning Asia, from
Euphrates and Syria as far as Lydia and Ionia.  So, scarcely at last rousing himself from sleep,
and shaking off the fumes of wine, he set out to attack the Parthians, and went as far as Phoenicia;
but, upon the receipt of lamentable letters from Fulvia, turned his course with two hundred
ships to Italy.  And, in his way, receiving, such of his friends as fled from Italy, he was
given to understand that Fulvia was the sole cause of the war, a woman of a restless spirit
and very bold, and withal her hopes were that commotions in Italy would force Antony from Cleopatra.
But it happened that Fulvia, as she was coming to meet her husband, fell sick by the way, and
died at Sicyon, so that an accommodation was the more easily made.  For when he reached Italy,
and Caesar showed no intention of laying anything to his charge, and he on his part shifted
the blame of everything on Fulvia, those that were friends to them would not suffer that the
time should be spent in looking narrowly into the plea, but made a reconciliation first, and
then a partition of the empire between them, taking as their boundary the Ionian Sea, the eastern
provinces falling to Antony, to Caesar the western, and Africa being left to Lepidus.  And
an agreement was made, that everyone in their turn, as he thought fit, should make their friends
consuls, when they did not choose to take the offices themselves.

These terms were well approved of, but yet it was thought some closer tie would be desirable;
and for this, fortune offered occasion.  Caesar had an elder sister, not of the whole blood,
for Attia was his mother's name, hers Ancharia.  This sister, Octavia, he was extremely attached
to, as, indeed, she was, it is said, quite a wonder of a woman.  Her husband, Caius Marcellus,
had died not long before, and Antony was now a widower by the death of Fulvia; for, though
he did not disavow the passion he had for Cleopatra, yet he disowned anything of marriage,
reason, as yet, upon this point, still maintaining the debate against the charms of the Egyptian.
Everybody concurred in promoting this new alliance, fully expecting that with the beauty, honor,
and prudence of Octavia, when her company should, as it was certain it would, have engaged
his affections, all would be kept in the safe and happy course of friendship.  So, both parties
being agreed, they went to Rome to celebrate the nuptials, the senate dispensing with the law
by which a widow was not permitted to marry till ten months after the death of her husband.

Sextus Pompeius was in possession of Sicily, and with his ships, under the command of Menas,
the pirate, and Menecrates, so infested the Italian coast, that no vessels durst venture into
those seas.  Sextus had behaved with much humanity towards Antony, having received his mother
when she fled with Fulvia, and it was therefore judged fit that he also should be received
into the peace.  They met near the promontory of Misenum, by the mole of the port, Pompey having
his fleet at anchor close by, and Antony and Caesar their troops drawn up all along the shore.
There it was concluded that Sextus should quietly enjoy the government of Sicily and Sardinia,
he conditioning to scour the seas of all pirates, and to send so much corn every year to Rome.

This agreed on, they invited one another to supper, and by lot it fell to Pompey's turn to
give the first entertainment, and Antony, asking where it was to be, "There," said he, pointing
to the admiral-galley, a ship of six banks of oars, "that is the only house that Pompey is
heir to of his father's."  And this he said, reflecting upon Antony, who was then in possession
of his father's house.  Having fixed the ship on her anchors, and formed a bridgeway from the
promontory to conduct on board of her, he gave them a cordial welcome.  And when they began
to grow warm, and jests were passing freely on Antony and Cleopatra's loves, Menas, the pirate,
whispered Pompey in the ear, "Shall I," said he, "cut the cables, and make you master not of
Sicily only and Sardinia, but of the whole Roman empire?" Pompey, having considered a little
while, returned him answer, "Menas, this might have been done without acquainting me; now we
must rest content; I do not break my word."  And so, having been entertained by the other two
in their turns, he set sail for Sicily.

After the treaty was completed, Antony dispatched Ventidius into Asia, to check the advance
of the Parthians, while he, as a compliment to Caesar, accepted the office of priest to the
deceased Caesar.  And in any state affair and matter of consequence, they both behaved themselves
with much consideration and friendliness for each other.  But it annoyed Antony, that in all
their amusements, on any trial of skill or fortune, Caesar should be constantly victorious.
He had with him an Egyptian diviner, one of those who calculate nativities, who, either to
make his court to Cleopatra, or that by the rules of his art he found it to be so, openly declared
to him, that though the fortune that attended him was bright and glorious, yet it was overshadowed
by Caesar's; and advised him to keep himself as far distant as he could from that young man;
"for your Genius," said he, "dreads his; when absent from him yours is proud and brave, but
in his presence unmanly and dejected;" and incidents that occurred appeared to show that the
Egyptian spoke truth.  For whenever they cast lots for any playful purpose, or threw dice,
Antony was still the loser; and repeatedly, when they fought game-cocks or quails, Caesar's
had the victory.  This gave Antony a secret displeasure, and made him put the more confidence
in the skill of his Egyptian.  So, leaving the management of his home affairs to Caesar, he
left Italy, and took Octavia, who had lately borne him a daughter, along with him into Greece.

Here, whilst he wintered in Athens, he received the first news of Ventidius's successes over
the Parthians, of his having defeated them in a battle, having slain Labienus and Pharnapates,
the best general their king, Hyrodes, possessed. For the celebrating of which he made a public
feast through Greece, and for the prizes which were contested at Athens he himself acted as
steward, and, leaving at home the ensigns that are carried before the general, he made his
public appearance in a gown and white shoes, with the steward's wands marching before; and
he performed his duty in taking the combatants by the neck, to part them, when they had fought
enough.

When the time came for him to set out for the war, he took a garland from the sacred olive,
and, in obedience to some oracle, he filled a vessel with the water of the Clepsydra, to carry
along with him.  In this interval, Pacorus, the Parthian king's son, who was marching into
Syria with a large army, was met by Ventidius, who gave him battle in the country of Cyrrhestica,
slew a large number of his men, and Pacorus among the first. This victory was one of the most
renowned achievements of the Romans, and fully avenged their defeats under Crassus, the Parthians
being obliged, after the loss of three battles successively, to keep themselves within the
bounds of Media and Mesopotamia.  Ventidius was not willing to push his good fortune further,
for fear of raising some jealousy in Antony, but, turning his arms against those that had quitted
the Roman interest, he reduced them to their former obedience.  Among the rest, he besieged
Antiochus, king of Commagene, in the city of Samosata, who made an offer of a thousand talents
for his pardon, and a promise of submission to Antony's commands.  But Ventidius told him that
he must send to Antony, who was already on his march, and had sent word to Ventidius to make
no terms with Antiochus, wishing that at any rate this one exploit might be ascribed to him,
and that people might not think that all his successes were won by his lieutenants.  The siege,
however, was long protracted; for when those within found their offers refused, they defended
themselves stoutly, till, at last, Antony, finding he was doing nothing, in shame and regret
for having refused the first offer, was glad to make an accommodation with Antiochus for three
hundred talents.  And, having given some orders for the affairs of Syria, he returned to Athens;
and, paying Ventidius the honors he well deserved, dismissed him to receive his triumph.  He
is the only man that has ever yet triumphed for victories obtained over the Parthians; he was
of obscure birth, but, by means of Antony's friendship, obtained an opportunity of showing
his capacity, and doing great things; and his making such glorious use of it gave new credit
to the current observation about Caesar and Antony, that they were more fortunate in what they
did by their lieutenants than in their own persons.  For Sossius, also, had great success,
and Canidius, whom he left in Armenia, defeated the people there, and also the kings of the
Albanians and Iberians, and marched victorious as far as Caucasus, by which means the fame
of Antony's arms had become great among the barbarous nations.

He, however, once more, upon some unfavorable stories, taking offense against Caesar, set sail
with three hundred ships for Italy, and, being refused admittance to the port of Brundusium,
made for Tarentum.  There his wife Octavia, who came from Greece with him, obtained leave to
visit her brother, she being then great with child, having already borne her husband a second
daughter; and as she was on her way, she met Caesar, with his two friends Agrippa and Maecenas,
and, taking these two aside, with great entreaties and lamentations she told them, that of
the most fortunate woman upon earth, she was in danger of becoming the most unhappy; for as
yet everyone's eyes were fixed upon her as the wife and sister of the two great commanders,
but, if rash counsels should prevail, and war ensue, "I shall be miserable," said she, "without
redress; for on what side soever victory falls, I shall be sure to be a loser."  Caesar was
overcome by these entreaties, and advanced in a peaceable temper to Tarentum, where those that
were present beheld a most stately spectacle; a vast army drawn up by the shore, and as great
a fleet in the harbor, all without the occurrence of any act of hostility; nothing but the
salutations of friends, and other expressions of joy and kindness, passing from one armament
to the other.  Antony first entertained Caesar this also being a concession on Caesar's part
to his sister; and when at length an agreement was made between them, that Caesar should give
Antony two of his legions to serve him in the Parthian war, and that Antony should in return
leave with him a hundred armed galleys, Octavia further obtained of her husband, besides this,
twenty light ships for her brother, and of her brother, a thousand foot for her husband.  So,
having parted good friends, Caesar went immediately to make war with Pompey to conquer Sicily.
And Antony, leaving in Caesar's charge his wife and children, and his children by his former
wife Fulvia, set sail for Asia.

But the mischief that thus long had lain still, the passion for Cleopatra, which better thoughts
had seemed to have lulled and charmed into oblivion, upon his approach to Syria, gathered strength
again, and broke out into a flame.  And, in fine, like Plato's restive and rebellious horse
of the human soul, flinging off all good and wholesome counsel, and breaking fairly loose,
he sends Fonteius Capito to bring Cleopatra into Syria.  To whom at her arrival he made no
small or trifling present, Phoenicia, Coele-Syria, Cyprus, great part of Cilicia, that side
of Judaea which produces balm, that part of Arabia where the Nabathaeans extend to the outer
sea; profuse gifts, which much displeased the Romans.  For, although he had invested several
private persons in great governments and kingdoms, and bereaved many kings of theirs, as Antigonus
of Judaea, whose head he caused to be struck off (the first example of that punishment being
inflicted on a king), yet nothing stung the Romans like the shame of these honors paid to Cleopatra.
Their dissatisfaction was augmented also by his acknowledging as his own the twin children
he had by her, giving them the name of Alexander and Cleopatra, and adding, as their surnames,
the titles of Sun and Moon.  But he, who knew how to put a good color on the most dishonest
action, would say, that the greatness of the Roman empire consisted more in giving than in
taking kingdoms, and that the way to carry noble blood through the world was by begetting in
every place a new line and series of kings; his own ancestor had thus been born of Hercules;
Hercules had not limited his hopes of progeny to a single womb, nor feared any law like Solon's,
or any audit of procreation, but had freely let nature take her will in the foundation and
first commencement of many families.

After Phraates had killed his father Hyrodes, and taken possession of his kingdom, many of
the Parthians left their country; among the rest, Monaeses, a man of great distinction and
authority, sought refuge with Antony, who, looking on his case as similar to that of Themistocles,
and likening his own opulence and magnanimity to those of the former Persian kings, gave him
three cities, Larissa, Arethusa, and Hierapolis, which was formerly called Bambyce.  But when
the king of Parthia soon recalled him, giving him his word and honor for his safety, Antony
was not unwilling to give him leave to return, hoping thereby to surprise Phraates, who would
believe that peace would continue; for he only made the demand of him, that he should send
back the Roman ensigns which were taken when Crassus was slain, and the prisoners that remained
yet alive.  This done, he sent Cleopatra into Egypt, and marched through Arabia and Armenia;
and, when his forces came together, and were joined by those of his confederate kings (of whom
there were very many, and the most considerable, Artavasdes, king of Armenia, who came at the
head of six thousand horse and seven thousand foot), he made a general muster.  There appeared
sixty thousand Roman foot, ten thousand horse, Spaniards and Gauls, who counted as Romans;
and, of other nations, horse and foot, thirty thousand. And these great preparations, that
put the Indians beyond Bactria into alarm, and made all Asia shake, were all, we are told,
rendered useless to him because of Cleopatra.  For, in order to pass the winter with her, the
war was pushed on before its due time; and all he did was done without perfect consideration,
as by a man who had no proper control over his faculties, who, under the effects of some drug
or magic, was still looking back elsewhere, and whose object was much more to hasten his return
than to conquer his enemies.

For, first of all, when he should have taken up his winter-quarters in Armenia, to refresh
his men, who were tired with long marches, having come at least eight thousand furlongs, and
then have taken the advantage in the beginning of the spring to invade Media, before the Parthians
were out of winter-quarters, he had not patience to expect his time, but marched into the province
of Atropatene, leaving Armenia on the left hand, and laid waste all that country.  Secondly,
his haste was so great, that he left behind the engines absolutely required for any siege,
which followed the camp in three hundred wagons, and, among the rest, a ram eighty feet long;
none of which was it possible, if lost or damaged, to repair or to make the like, as the provinces
of the upper Asia produce no trees long or hard enough for such uses.  Nevertheless, he left
them all behind, as a mere impediment to his speed, in the charge of a detachment under the
command of Statianus, the wagon-officer. He himself laid siege to Phraata, a principal city
of the king of Media, wherein were that king's wife and children.  And when actual need proved
the greatness of his error in leaving the siege train behind him, he had nothing for it but
to come up and raise a mound against the walls, with infinite labor and great loss of time.
Meantime Phraates, coming down with a large army, and hearing that the wagons were left behind
with the battering engines, sent a strong party of horse, by which Statianus was surprised,
he himself and ten thousand of his men slain, the engines all broken in pieces, many taken
prisoners, and, among the rest, king Polemon.

This great miscarriage in the opening of the campaign much discouraged Antony's army, and Artavasdes,
king of Armenia, deciding that the Roman prospects were bad, withdrew with all his forces from
the camp, although he had been the chief promoter of the war.  The Parthians, encouraged by
their success, came up to the Romans at the siege, and gave them many affronts; upon which
Antony, fearing that the despondency and alarm of his soldiers would only grow worse if he
let them lie idle, taking all the horse, ten legions, and three praetorian cohorts of heavy
infantry, resolved to go out and forage, designing by this means to draw the enemy with more
advantage to a battle.  To effect this, he marched a day's journey from his camp, and, finding
the Parthians hovering about, in readiness to attack him while he was in motion, he gave orders
for the signal of battle to be hung out in the encampment, but, at the same time, pulled down
the tents, as if he meant not to fight, but to lead his men home again; and so he proceeded
to lead them past the enemy, who were drawn up in a half-moon, his orders being that the horse
should charge as soon as the legions were come up near enough to second them.  The Parthians,
standing still while the Romans marched by them, were in great admiration of their army, and
of the exact discipline it observed, rank after rank passing on at equal distances in perfect
order and silence, their pikes all ready in their hands.  But when the signal was given, and
the horse turned short upon the Parthians, and with loud cries charged them, they bravely received
them, though they were at once too near for bowshot; but the legions, coming up with loud shouts
and rattling of their arms, so frightened their horses and indeed the men themselves, that
they kept their ground no longer.  Antony pressed them hard, in great hopes that this victory
should put an end to the war; the foot had them in pursuit for fifty furlongs, and the horse
for thrice that distance, and yet, the advantage summed up, they had but thirty prisoners,
and there were but fourscore slain.  So that they were all filled with dejection and discouragement,
to consider, that when they were victorious, their advantage was so small, and that when they
were beaten, they lost so great a number of men as they had done when the carriages were taken.

The next day, having put the baggage in order, they marched back to the camp before Phraata,
in the way meeting with some scattering troops of the enemy, and, as they marched further,
with greater parties, at length with the body of the enemy's army, fresh and in good order,
who called them to battle, and charged them on every side, and it was not without great difficulty
that they reached the camp.  There Antony, finding that his men had in a panic deserted the
defense of the mound, upon a sally of the Medes, resolved to proceed against them by decimation,
as it is called, which is done by dividing the soldiers into tens, and, out of every ten, putting
one to death, as it happens by lot.  The rest he gave orders should have, instead of wheat,
their rations of corn in barley.

The war was now become grievous to both parties, and the prospect of its continuance yet more
fearful to Antony, in respect that he was threatened with famine; for he could no longer forage
without wounds and slaughter.  And Phraates, on the other side, was full of apprehension that,
if the Romans were to persist in carrying on the siege, the autumnal equinox being past and
the air already closing in for cold, he should be deserted by his soldiers, who would suffer
anything rather than wintering in open field.  To prevent which, he had recourse to the following
deceit: he gave order to those of his men who had made most acquaintance among the Roman soldiers,
not to pursue too close when they met them foraging, but to suffer them to carry off some provision;
moreover, that they should praise their valor, and declare that it was not without just reason
that their king looked upon the Romans as the bravest men in the world.  This done, upon further
opportunity they rode nearer in, and, drawing up their horses by the men, began to revile Antony
for his obstinacy; that whereas Phraates desired nothing more than peace, and an occasion to
show how ready he was to save the lives of so many brave soldiers, he, on the contrary, gave
no opening to any friendly offers, but sat awaiting the arrival of the two fiercest and worst
enemies, winter and famine, from whom it would be hard for them to make their escape, even
with all the good-will of the Parthians to help them.  Antony, having these reports from many
hands, began to indulge the hope; nevertheless, he would not send any message to the Parthian
till he had put the question to these friendly talkers, whether what they said was said by
order of their king.  Receiving answer that it was, together with new encouragement to believe
them, he sent some of his friends to demand once more the standards and prisoners, lest, if
he should ask nothing, he might be supposed to be too thankful to have leave to retreat in
quiet.  The Parthian king made answer, that as for the standards and prisoners, he need not
trouble himself; but if he thought fit to retreat, he might do it when he pleased, in peace
and safety. Some few days, therefore, being spent in collecting the baggage, he set out upon
his march.  On which occasion, though there was no man of his time like him for addressing
a multitude, or for carrying soldiers with him by the force of words, out of shame and sadness
he could not find in his heart to speak himself, but employed Domitius Aenobarbus.  And some
of the soldiers resented it, as an undervaluing of them; but the greater number saw the true
cause, and pitied it, and thought it rather a reason why they on their side should treat their
general with more respect and obedience than ordinary.

Antony had resolved to return by the same way he came, which was through a level country clear
of all trees, but a certain Mardian came to him (one that was very conversant with the manners
of the Parthians, and whose fidelity to the Romans had been tried at the battle where the machines
were lost), and advised him to keep the mountains close on his right hand, and not to expose
his men, heavily armed, in a broad, open, riding country, to the attacks of a numerous army
of light-horse and archers; that Phraates with fair promises had persuaded him from the siege
on purpose that he might with more ease cut him off in his retreat; but, if so he pleased,
he would conduct him by a nearer route, on which moreover he should find the necessaries for
his army in greater abundance.  Antony upon this began to consider what was best to be done;
he was unwilling to seem to have any mistrust of the Parthians after their treaty; but, holding
it to be really best to march his army the shorter and more inhabited way, he demanded of the
Mardian some assurance of his faith, who offered himself to be bound until the army came safe
into Armenia.  Two days he conducted the army bound, and, on the third, when Antony had given
up all thought of the enemy, and was marching at his ease in no very good order, the Mardian,
perceiving the bank of a river broken down, and the water let out and overflowing the road
by which they were to pass, saw at once that this was the handiwork of the Parthians, done
out of mischief, and to hinder their march; so he advised Antony to be upon his guard, for
that the enemy was nigh at hand.  And no sooner had he begun to put his men in order, disposing
the slingers and dart men in convenient intervals for sallying out, but the Parthians came
pouring in on all sides, fully expecting to encompass them, and throw the whole army into disorder.
They were at once attacked by the light troops, whom they galled a good deal with their arrows;
but, being themselves as warmly entertained with the slings and darts, and many wounded, they
made their retreat.  Soon after, rallying up afresh, they were beat back by a battalion of
Gallic horse, and appeared no more that day.

By their manner of attack Antony seeing what to do, not only placed the slings and darts as
a rear guard, but also lined both flanks with them, and so marched in a square battle, giving
order to the horse to charge and beat off the enemy, but not to follow them far as they retired.
So that the Parthians, not doing more mischief for the four ensuing days than they received,
began to abate in their zeal, and, complaining that the winter season was much advanced, pressed
for returning home.

But, on the fifth day, Flavius Gallus, a brave and active officer, who had a considerable command
in the army, came to Antony, desiring of him some light-infantry out of the rear, and some
horse out of the front, with which he would undertake to do some considerable service.  Which
when he had obtained, he beat the enemy back, not withdrawing, as was usual, at the same time,
and retreating upon the mass of the heavy infantry, but maintaining his own ground, and engaging
boldly.  The officers who commanded in the rear, perceiving how far he was getting from the
body of the army, sent to warn him back, but he took no notice of them.  It is said that Titius
the quaestor snatched the standards and turned them round, upbraiding Gallus with thus leading
so many brave men to destruction.  But when he on the other side reviled him again, and commanded
the men that were about him to stand firm, Titius made his retreat, and Gallus, charging the
enemies in the front, was encompassed by a party that fell upon his rear, which at length perceiving,
he sent a messenger to demand succor.  But the commanders of the heavy infantry, Canidius amongst
others, a particular favorite of Antony's, seem here to have committed a great oversight. 
For, instead of facing about with the whole body, they sent small parties, and, when they were
defeated, they still sent out small parties, so that by their bad management the rout would
have spread through the whole army, if Antony himself had not marched from the van at the head
of the third legion, and, passing this through among the fugitives, faced the enemies, and
hindered them from any further pursuit.

In this engagement were killed three thousand, five thousand were carried back to the camp
wounded, amongst the rest Gallus, shot through the body with four arrows, of which wounds he
died. Antony went from tent to tent to visit and comfort the rest of them, and was not able
to see his men without tears and a passion of grief.  They, however, seized his hand with joyful
faces, bidding him go and see to himself and not be concerned about them, calling him their
emperor and their general, and saying that if he did well they were safe.  For in short, never
in all these times can history make mention of a general at the head of a more splendid army;
whether you consider strength and youth, or patience and sufferance in labors and fatigues;
but as for the obedience and affectionate respect they bore their general, and the unanimous
feeling amongst small and great alike, officers and common soldiers, to prefer his good opinion
of them to their very lives and being, in this part of military excellence it was not possible
that they could have been surpassed by the very Romans of old.  For this devotion, as I have
said before, there were many reasons, as the nobility of his family, his eloquence, his frank
and open manners, his liberal and magnificent habits, his familiarity in talking with everybody,
and, at this time particularly, his kindness in assisting and pitying the sick, joining in
all their pains, and furnishing them with all things necessary, so that the sick and wounded
were even more eager to serve than those that were whole and strong.

Nevertheless, this last victory had so encouraged the enemy, that, instead of their former
impatience and weariness, they began soon to feel contempt for the Romans, staying all night
near the camp, in expectation of plundering their tents and baggage, which they concluded they
must abandon; and in the morning new forces arrived in large masses, so that their number was
grown to be not less, it is said, than forty thousand horse; and the king had sent the very
guards that attended upon his own person, as to a sure and unquestioned victory.  For he himself
was never present in any fight.  Antony, designing to harangue the soldiers, called for a mourning
habit, that he might move them the more, but was dissuaded by his friends; so he came forward
in the general's scarlet cloak, and addressed them, praising those that had gained the victory,
and reproaching those that had fled, the former answering him with promises of success, and
the latter excusing themselves, and telling him they were ready to undergo decimation, or any
other punishment he should please to inflict upon them, only entreating that he would forget
and not discompose himself with their faults.  At which he lifted up his hands to heaven, and
prayed the gods, that if to balance the great favors he had received of them any judgment lay
in store, they would pour it upon his head alone, and grant his soldiers victory.

The next day they took better order for their march, and the Parthians, who thought they were
marching rather to plunder than to fight, were much taken aback, when they came up and were
received with a shower of missiles, to find the enemy not disheartened, but fresh and resolute.
So that they themselves began to lose courage.  But at the descent of a hill where the Romans
were obliged to pass, they got together, and let fly their arrows upon them as they moved slowly
down.  But the full-armed infantry, facing round, received the light troops within; and those
in the first rank knelt on one knee, holding their shields before them, the next rank holding
theirs over the first, and so again others over these, much like the tiling of a house, or
the rows of seats in a theater, the whole affording sure defense against arrows, which glance
upon them without doing any harm.  The Parthians, seeing the Romans down upon their knees,
could not imagine but that it must proceed from weariness; so that they laid down their bows,
and, taking their spears, made a fierce onset, when the Romans, with a great cry, leapt upon
their feet, striking hand to hand with their javelins, slew the foremost, and put the rest
to flight.  After this rate it was every day, and the trouble they gave made the marches short;
in addition to which famine began to be felt in the camp, for they could get but little corn,
and that which they got they were forced to fight for; and, besides this, they were in want
of implements to grind it and make bread.  For they had left almost all behind, the baggage
horses being dead or otherwise employed in carrying the sick and wounded.  Provision was so
scarce in the army that an Attic quart of wheat sold for fifty drachmas, and barley loaves
for their weight in silver. And when they tried vegetables and roots, they found such as are
commonly eaten very scarce, so that they were constrained to venture upon any they could get,
and, among others, they chanced upon an herb that was mortal, first taking away all sense and
understanding.  He that had eaten of it remembered nothing in the world, and employed himself
only in moving great stones from one place to another, which he did with as much earnestness
and industry as if it had been a business of the greatest consequence.  Through all the camp
there was nothing to be seen but men grubbing upon the ground at stones, which they carried
from place to place.  But in the end they threw up bile and died, as wine, moreover, which
was the one antidote, failed. When Antony saw them die so fast, and the Parthian still in pursuit,
he was heard to exclaim several times over, "O, the Ten Thousand!" as if in admiration of the
retreat of the Greeks with Xenophon, who, when they had a longer journey to make from Babylonia,
and a more powerful enemy to deal with, nevertheless came home safe.

The Parthians, finding that they could not divide the Roman army, nor break the order of their
battle, and that withal they had been so often worsted, once more began to treat the foragers
with professions of humanity; they came up to them with their bows unbended, telling them that
they were going home to their houses; that this was the end of their retaliation, and that
only some Median troops would follow for two or three days, not with any design to annoy them,
but for the defense of some of the villages further on.  And, saying this, they saluted them
and embraced them with a great show of friendship.  This made the Romans full of confidence
again, and Antony, on hearing of it, was more disposed to take the road through the level country,
being told that no water was to be hoped for on that through the mountains.  But while he was
preparing thus to do, Mithridates came into the camp, a cousin to Monaeses, of whom we related
that he sought refuge with the Romans, and received in gift from Antony the three cities. 
Upon his arrival, he desired somebody might be brought to him that could speak Syriac or Parthian.
One Alexander, of Antioch, a friend of Antony's, was brought to him, to whom the stranger,
giving his name, and mentioning Monaeses as the person who desired to do the kindness, put
the question, did he see that high range of hills, pointing at some distance.  He told him,
yes.  "It is there," said he, "the whole Parthian army lie in wait for your passage; for the
great plains come immediately up to them, and they expect that, confiding in their promises,
you will leave the way of the mountains, and take the level route.  It is true that in passing
over the mountains you will suffer the want of water, and the fatigue to which you have become
familiar, but if you pass through the plains, Antony must expect the fortune of Crassus."

This said, he departed.  Antony, in alarm, calling his friends in council, sent for the Mardian
guide, who was of the same opinion.  He told them that, with or without enemies, the want of
any certain track in the plain, and the likelihood of their losing their way, were quite objection
enough; the other route was rough and without water, but then it was but for a day. Antony,
therefore, changing his mind, marched away upon this road that night, commanding that everyone
should carry water sufficient for his own use; but most of them being unprovided with vessels,
they made shift with their helmets, and some with skins.  As soon as they started, the news
of it was carried to the Parthians, who followed them, contrary to their custom, through the
night, and at sunrise attacked the rear, which was tired with marching and want of sleep, and
not in condition to make any considerable defense.  For they had got through two hundred and
forty furlongs that night, and at the end of such a march to find the enemy at their heels,
put them out of heart. Besides, having to fight for every step of the way increased their distress
from thirst.  Those that were in the van came up to a river, the water of which was extremely
cool and clear, but brackish and medicinal, and, on being drunk, produced immediate pains in
the bowels and a renewed thirst.  Of this the Mardian had forewarned them, but they could not
forbear, and, beating back those that opposed them, they drank of it.  Antony ran from one
place to another, begging they would have a little patience, that not far off there was a river
of wholesome water, and that the rest of the way was so difficult for the horse, that the enemy
could pursue them no further; and, saying this, he ordered to sound a retreat to call those
back that were engaged, and commanded the tents should be set up, that the soldiers might at
any rate refresh themselves in the shade.

But the tents were scarce well put up, and the Parthians beginning, according to their custom,
to withdraw, when Mithridates came again to them, and informed Alexander, with whom he had
before spoken, that he would do well to advise Antony to stay where he was no longer than needs
he must, that, after having refreshed his troops, he should endeavor with all diligence to
gain the next river, that the Parthians would not cross it, but so far they were resolved to
follow them. Alexander made his report to Antony, who ordered a quantity of gold plate to be
carried to Mithridates, who, taking as much as be could well hide under his clothes, went his
way.  And, upon this advice, Antony, while it was yet day, broke up his camp, and the whole
army marched forward without receiving any molestation from the Parthians, though that night
by their own doing was in effect the most wretched and terrible that they passed.  For some
of the men began to kill and plunder those whom they suspected to have any money, ransacked
the baggage, and seized the money there.  In the end, they laid hands on Antony's own equipage,
and broke all his rich tables and cups, dividing the fragments amongst them.  Antony, hearing
such a noise and such a stirring to and fro all through the army, the belief prevailing that
the enemy had routed and cut off a portion of the troops, called for one of his freedmen, then
serving as one of his guards, Rhamnus by name, and made him take an oath that, whenever he
should give him orders, he would run his sword through his body and cut off his head, that
he might not fall alive into the hands of the Parthians, nor, when dead, be recognized as the
general.  While he was in this consternation, and all his friends about him in tears, the Mardian
came up, and gave them all new life.  He convinced them, by the coolness and humidity of the
air, which they could feel in breathing it, that the river which he had spoken of was now not
far off, and the calculation of the time that had been required to reach it came, he said,
to the same result, for the night was almost spent.  And, at the same time, others came with
information that all the confusion in the camp proceeded only from their own violence and robbery
among themselves.  To compose this tumult, and bring them again into some order after their
distraction, he commanded the signal to be given for a halt.

Day began to break, and quiet and regularity were just reappearing, when the Parthian arrows
began to fly among the rear, and the light armed troops were ordered out to battle. And, being
seconded by the heavy infantry, who covered one another as before described with their shields,
they bravely received the enemy, who did not think convenient to advance any further, while
the van of the army, marching forward leisurely in this manner came in sight of the river,
and Antony, drawing up the cavalry on the banks to confront the enemy, first passed over the
sick and wounded.  And, by this time, even those who were engaged with the enemy had opportunity
to drink at their ease; for the Parthians, on seeing the river, unbent their bows, and told
the Romans they might pass over freely, and made them great compliments in praise of their
valor.  Having crossed without molestation, they rested themselves awhile, and presently went
forward, not giving perfect credit to the fair words of their enemies.  Six days after this
last battle, they arrived at the river Araxes, which divides Media and Armenia, and seemed,
both by its deepness and the violence of the current, to be very dangerous to pass.  A report,
also, had crept in amongst them, that the enemy was in ambush, ready to set upon them as soon
as they should be occupied with their passage.  But when they were got over on the other side,
and found themselves in Armenia, just as if land was now sighted after a storm at sea, they
kissed the ground for joy, shedding tears and embracing each other in their delight.  But taking
their journey through a land that abounded in all sorts of plenty, they ate, after their long
want, with that excess of everything they met with, that they suffered from dropsies and dysenteries.

Here Antony, making a review of his army, found that he had lost twenty thousand foot and four
thousand horse, of which the better half perished, not by the enemy, but by diseases.  Their
march was of twenty-seven days from Phraata, during which they had beaten the Parthians in
eighteen battles, though with little effect or lasting result, because of their being so unable
to pursue.  By which it is manifest that it was Artavasdes who lost Antony the benefit of the
expedition.  For had the sixteen thousand horsemen whom he led away out of Media, armed in
the same style as the Parthians and accustomed to their manner of fight, been there to follow
the pursuit when the Romans put them to flight, it is impossible they could have rallied so
often after their defeats, and reappeared again as they did to renew their attacks.  For this
reason, the whole army was very earnest with Antony to march into Armenia to take revenge.
But he, with more reflection, forbore to notice the desertion, and continued all his former
courtesies, feeling that the army was wearied out, and in want of all manner of necessaries.
Afterwards, however, entering Armenia, with invitations and fair promises he prevailed upon
Artavasdes to meet him, when he seized him, bound him, and carried him to Alexandria, and there
led him in a triumph; one of the things which most offended the Romans, who felt as if all
the honors and solemn observances of their country were, for Cleopatra's sake, handed over
to the Egyptians.

This, however, was at an after time.  For the present, marching his army in great haste in
the depth of winter through continual storms of snow, he lost eight thousand of his men, and
came with much diminished numbers to a place called the White Village, between Sidon and Berytus,
on the seacoast, where he waited for the arrival of Cleopatra.  And, being impatient of the
delay she made, he bethought himself of shortening the time in wine and drunkenness, and yet
could not endure the tediousness of a meal, but would start from table and run to see if she
were coming. Till at last she came into port, and brought with her clothes and money for the
soldiers.  Though some say that Antony only received the clothes from her, and distributed
his own money in her name.

A quarrel presently happened between the king of Media and Phraates of Parthia, beginning,
it is said, about the division of the booty that was taken from the Romans, and creating great
apprehension in the Median lest he should lose his kingdom.  He sent, therefore, ambassadors
to Antony, with offers of entering into a confederate war against Phraates.  And Antony, full
of hopes at being thus asked, as a favor, to accept that one thing, horse and archers, the
want of which had hindered his beating the Parthians before, began at once to prepare for a
return to Armenia, there to join the Medes on the Araxes, and begin the war afresh.  But Octavia,
in Rome, being desirous to see Antony, asked Caesar's leave to go to him; which he gave her,
not so much, say most authors, to gratify his sister, as to obtain a fair pretense to begin
the war upon her dishonorable reception. She no sooner arrived at Athens, but by letters from
Antony she was informed of his new expedition, and his will that she should await him there.
And, though she were much displeased, not being ignorant of the real reason of this usage,
yet she wrote to him to know to what place he would be pleased she should send the things she
had brought with her for his use; for she had brought clothes for his soldiers, baggage, cattle,
money, and presents for his friends and officers, and two thousand chosen soldiers sumptuously
armed, to form praetorian cohorts.  This message was brought from Octavia to Antony by Niger,
one of his friends, who added to it the praises she deserved so well. Cleopatra, feeling her
rival already, as it were, at hand, was seized with fear, lest if to her noble life and her
high alliance, she once could add the charm of daily habit and affectionate intercourse, she
should become irresistible, and be his absolute mistress for ever.  So she feigned to be dying
for love of Antony, bringing her body down by slender diet; when he entered the room, she fixed
her eyes upon him in a rapture, and when he left, seemed to languish and half faint away. 
She took great pains that he should see her in tears, and, as soon as he noticed it, hastily
dried them up and turned away, as if it were her wish that he should know nothing of it.  All
this was acting while he prepared for Media; and Cleopatra's creatures were not slow to forward
the design, upbraiding Antony with his unfeeling, hard-hearted temper, thus letting a woman
perish whose soul depended upon him and him alone.  Octavia, it was true, was his wife, and
had been married to him because it was found convenient for the affairs of her brother that
it should be so, and she had the honor of the title; but Cleopatra, the sovereign queen of
many nations, had been contented with the name of his mistress, nor did she shun or despise
the character whilst she might see him, might live with him, and enjoy him; if she were bereaved
of this, she would not survive the loss.  In fine, they so melted and unmanned him, that, fully
believing she would die if he forsook her, he put off the war and returned to Alexandria, deferring
his Median expedition until next summer, though news came of the Parthians being all in confusion
with intestine disputes.  Nevertheless, he did some time after go into that country, and made
an alliance with the king of Media, by marriage of a son of his by Cleopatra to the king's
daughter, who was yet very young; and so returned, with his thoughts taken up about the civil war.

When Octavia returned from Athens, Caesar, who considered she had been injuriously treated,
commanded her to live in a separate house; but she refused to leave the house of her husband,
and entreated him, unless he had already resolved, upon other motives, to make war with Antony,
that he would on her account let it alone; it would be intolerable to have it said of the two
greatest commanders in the world, that they had involved the Roman people in a civil war, the
one out of passion for; the other out of resentment about, a woman.  And her behavior proved
her words to be sincere.  She remained in Antony's house as if he were at home in it, and took
the noblest and most generous care, not only of his children by her, but of those by Fulvia
also.  She received all the friends of Antony that came to Rome to seek office or upon any
business, and did her utmost to prefer their requests to Caesar; yet this her honorable deportment
did but, without her meaning it, damage the reputation of Antony; the wrong he did to such
a woman made him hated.  Nor was the division he made among his sons at Alexandria less unpopular;
it seemed a theatrical piece of insolence and contempt of his country.  For, assembling the
people in the exercise ground, and causing two golden thrones to be placed on a platform of
silver, the one for him and the other for Cleopatra, and at their feet lower thrones for their
children, he proclaimed Cleopatra queen of Egypt, Cyprus, Libya, and Coele-Syria, and with
her conjointly Caesarion, the reputed son of the former Caesar, who left Cleopatra with child.
His own sons by Cleopatra were to have the style of kings of kings; to Alexander he gave Armenia
and Media, with Parthia, so soon as it should be overcome; to Ptolemy, Phoenicia, Syria, and
Cilicia.  Alexander was brought out before the people in the Median costume, the tiara and
upright peak, and Ptolemy, in boots and mantle and Macedonian cap done about with the diadem;
for this was the habit of the successors of Alexander, as the other was of the Medes and Armenians.
And, as soon as they had saluted their parents, the one was received by a guard of Macedonians,
the other by one of Armenians.  Cleopatra was then, as at other times when she appeared in
public, dressed in the habit of the goddess Isis, and gave audience to the people under the
name of the New Isis.

Caesar, relating these things in the senate, and often complaining to the people, excited men's
minds against Antony. And Antony also sent messages of accusation against Caesar.  The principal
of his charges were these: first, that he had not made any division with him of Sicily, which
was lately taken from Pompey; secondly, that he had retained the ships he had lent him for
the war; thirdly, that after deposing Lepidus, their colleague, he had taken for himself the
army, governments, and revenues formerly appropriated to him; and, lastly, that he had parceled
out almost all Italy amongst his own soldiers, and left nothing for his.  Caesar's answer was
as follows: that he had put Lepidus out of government because of his own misconduct; that what
he had got in war he would divide with Antony, so soon as Antony gave him a share of Armenia;
that Antony's soldiers had no claims in Italy, being in possession of Media and Parthia, the
acquisitions which their brave actions under their general had added to the Roman empire.

Antony was in Armenia when this answer came to him, and immediately sent Canidius with sixteen
legions towards the sea; but he, in the company of Cleopatra, went to Ephesus, whither ships
were coming in from all quarters to form the navy, consisting, vessels of burden included,
of eight hundred vessels, of which Cleopatra furnished two hundred, together with twenty thousand
talents, and provision for the whole army during the war.  Antony, on the advice of Domitius
and some others, bade Cleopatra return into Egypt, there to expect the event of the war; but
she, dreading some new reconciliation by Octavia's means, prevailed with Canidius, by a large
sum of money, to speak in her favor with Antony, pointing out to him that it was not just that
one that bore so great a part in the charge of the war should be robbed of her share of glory
in the carrying it on: nor would it be politic to disoblige the Egyptians, who were so considerable
a part of his naval forces; nor did he see how she was inferior in prudence to any one of the
kings that were serving with him; she had long governed a great kingdom by herself alone, and
long lived with him, and gained experience in public affairs.  These arguments (so the fate
that destined all to Caesar would have it), prevailed; and when all their forces had met, they
sailed together to Samos, and held high festivities.  For, as it was ordered that all kings,
princes, and governors, all nations and cities within the limits of Syria, the Maeotid Lake,
Armenia, and Illyria, should bring or cause to be brought all munitions necessary for war,
so was it also proclaimed that all stage-players should make their appearance at Samos; so
that, while pretty nearly the whole world was filled with groans and lamentations, this one
island for some days resounded with piping and harping, theaters filling, and choruses playing.
Every city sent an ox as its contribution to the sacrifice, and the kings that accompanied
Antony competed who should make the most magnificent feasts and the greatest presents; and
men began to ask themselves, what would be done to celebrate the victory, when they went to
such an expense of festivity at the opening of the war.

This over, he gave Priene to his players for a habitation, and set sail for Athens, where fresh
sports and play-acting employed him.  Cleopatra, jealous of the honors Octavia had received
at Athens (for Octavia was much beloved by the Athenians), courted the favor of the people
with all sorts of attentions.  The Athenians, in requital, having decreed her public honors,
deputed several of the citizens to wait upon her at her house; amongst whom went Antony as
one, he being an Athenian citizen, and he it was that made the speech.  He sent orders to Rome
to have Octavia removed out of his house.  She left it, we are told, accompanied by all his
children, except the eldest by Fulvia, who was then with his father, weeping and grieving that
she must be looked upon as one of the causes of the war.  But the Romans pitied, not so much
her, as Antony himself, and more particularly those who had seen Cleopatra, whom they could
report to have no way the advantage of Octavia either in youth or in beauty.

The speed and extent of Antony's preparations alarmed Caesar, who feared he might be forced
to fight the decisive battle that summer.  For he wanted many necessaries, and the people grudged
very much to pay the taxes; freemen being called upon to pay a fourth part of their incomes,
and freed slaves an eighth of their property, so that there were loud outcries against him,
and disturbances throughout all Italy.  And this is looked upon as one of the greatest of Antony's
oversights, that he did not then press the war.  For he allowed time at once for Caesar to
make his preparations, and for the commotions to pass over.  For while people were having their
money called for, they were mutinous and violent; but, having paid it, they held their peace.
Titius and Plancus, men of consular dignity and friends to Antony, having been ill used by
Cleopatra, whom they had most resisted in her design of being present in the war, came over
to Caesar, and gave information of the contents of Antony's will, with which they were acquainted.
It was deposited in the hands of the vestal virgins, who refused to deliver it up, and sent
Caesar word, if he pleased, he should come and seize it himself, which he did.  And, reading
it over to himself, he noted those places that were most for his purpose, and, having summoned
the senate, read them publicly.  Many were scandalized at the proceeding, thinking it out of
reason and equity to call a man to account for what was not to be until after his death.  Caesar
specially pressed what Antony said in his will about his burial; for he had ordered that even
if he died in the city of Rome, his body, after being carried in state through the forum, should
be sent to Cleopatra at Alexandria.  Calvisius, a dependent of Caesar's, urged other charges
in connection with Cleopatra against Antony; that he had given her the library of Pergamus,
containing two hundred thousand distinct volumes; that at a great banquet, in the presence
of many guests, he had risen up and rubbed her feet, to fulfill some wager or promise; that
he had suffered the Ephesians to salute her as their queen; that he had frequently at the public
audience of kings and princes received amorous messages written in tablets made of onyx and
crystal, and read them openly on the tribunal; that when Furnius, a man of great authority
and eloquence among the Romans, was pleading, Cleopatra happening to pass by in her chair,
Antony started up and left them in the middle of their cause, to follow at her side and attend
her home.

Calvisius, however, was looked upon as the inventor of most of these stories.  Antony's friends
went up and down the city to gain him credit, and sent one of themselves, Geminius, to him,
to beg him to take heed and not allow himself to be deprived by vote of his authority, and
proclaimed a public enemy to the Roman state.  But Geminius no sooner arrived in Greece but
he was looked upon as one of Octavia's spies; at their suppers he was made a continual butt
for mockery, and was put to sit in the least honorable places; all which he bore very well,
seeking only an occasion of speaking with Antony.  So, at supper, being told to say what business
he came about, he answered he would keep the rest for a soberer hour, but one thing he had
to say, whether full or fasting, that all would go well if Cleopatra would return to Egypt.
And on Antony showing his anger at it, "You have done well, Geminius," said Cleopatra, "to
tell your secret without being put to the rack." So Geminius, after a few days, took occasion
to make his escape and go to Rome.  Many more of Antony's friends were driven from him by the
insolent usage they had from Cleopatra's flatterers, amongst whom were Marcus Silanus and Dellius
the historian.  And Dellius says he was afraid of his life, and that Glaucus, the physician,
informed him of Cleopatra's design against him.  She was angry with him for having said that
Antony's friends were served with sour wine, while at Rome Sarmentus, Caesar's little page
(his delicia, as the Romans call it), drank Falernian.

As soon as Caesar had completed his preparations, he had a decree made, declaring war on Cleopatra,
and depriving Antony of the authority which he had let a woman exercise in his place. Caesar
added that he had drunk potions that had bereaved him of his senses, and that the generals
they would have to fight with would be Mardion the eunuch, Pothinus, Iras, Cleopatra's hairdressing
girl, and Charmion, who were Antony's chief state-councillors.

These prodigies are said to have announced the war.  Pisaurum, where Antony had settled a colony,
on the Adriatic sea, was swallowed up by an earthquake; sweat ran from one of the marble statues
of Antony at Alba for many days together, and, though frequently wiped off, did not stop. 
When he himself was in the city of Patrae, the temple of Hercules was struck by lightning,
and, at Athens, the figure of Bacchus was torn by a violent wind out of the Battle of the Giants,
and laid flat upon the theater; with both which deities Antony claimed connection, professing
to be descended from Hercules, and from his imitating Bacchus in his way of living having received
the name of Young Bacchus.  The same whirlwind at Athens also brought down, from amongst many
others which were not disturbed, the colossal statues of Eumenes and Attalus, which were inscribed
with Antony's name.  And in Cleopatra's admiral-galley, which was called the Antonias, a most
inauspicious omen occurred.  Some swallows had built in the stern of the galley, but other
swallows came, beat the first away, and destroyed their nests.

When the armaments gathered for the war, Antony had no less than five hundred ships of war,
including numerous galleys of eight and ten banks of oars, as richly ornamented as if they
were meant for a triumph.  He had a hundred thousand foot and twelve thousand horse.  He had
vassal kings attending, Bocchus of Libya, Tarcondemus of the Upper Cilicia, Archelaus of Cappadocia,
Philadelphus of Paphlagonia, Mithridates of Commagene, and Sadalas of Thrace; all these were
with him in person.  Out of Pontus Polemon sent him considerable forces, as did also Malchus
from Arabia, Herod the Jew, and Amyntas, king of Lycaonia and Galatia; also the Median king
sent some troops to join him.  Caesar had two hundred and fifty galleys of war, eighty thousand
foot, and horse about equal to the enemy. Antony's empire extended from Euphrates and Armenia
to the Ionian sea and the Illyrians; Caesar's, from Illyria to the westward ocean, and from
the ocean all along the Tuscan and Sicilian sea.  Of Africa, Caesar had all the coast opposite
to Italy, Gaul, and Spain, as far as the Pillars of Hercules, and Antony the provinces from
Cyrene to Ethiopia.

But so wholly was he now the mere appendage to the person of Cleopatra, that, although he was
much superior to the enemy in land-forces, yet, out of complaisance to his mistress, he wished
the victory to be gained by sea, and that, too, when he could not but see how, for want of
sailors, his captains, all through unhappy Greece, were pressing every description of men,
common travelers and ass-drivers, harvest laborers and boys, and for all this the vessels had
not their complements, but remained, most of them, ill-manned and badly rowed.  Caesar, on
the other side, had ships that were built not for size or show, but for service, not pompous
galleys, but light, swift, and perfectly manned; and from his head-quarters at Tarentum and
Brundusium he sent messages to Antony not to protract the war, but come out with his forces;
he would give him secure roadsteads and ports for his fleet, and, for his land army to disembark
and pitch their camp, he would leave him as much ground in Italy, inland from the sea, as a
horse could traverse in a single course. Antony, on the other side, with the like bold language,
challenged him to a single combat, though he were much the older; and, that being refused,
proposed to meet him in the Pharsalian fields, where Caesar and Pompey had fought before. But
whilst Antony lay with his fleet near Actium, where now stands Nicopolis, Caesar seized his
opportunity, and crossed the Ionian sea, securing himself at a place in Epirus called the Ladle.
And when those about Antony were much disturbed, their land-forces being a good way off, "Indeed,"
said Cleopatra, in mockery, "we may well be frightened if Caesar has got hold of the Ladle!"

On the morrow, Antony, seeing the enemy sailing up, and fearing lest his ships might be taken
for want of the soldiers to go on board of them, armed all the rowers, and made a show upon
the decks of being in readiness to fight; the oars were mounted as if waiting to be put in
motion, and the vessels themselves drawn up to face the enemy on either side of the channel
of Actium, as though they were properly manned, and ready for an engagement And Caesar, deceived
by this stratagem, retired.  He was also thought to have shown considerable skill in cutting
off the water from the enemy by some lines of trenches and forts, water not being plentiful
anywhere else, nor very good.  And again, his conduct to Domitius was generous, much against
the will of Cleopatra.  For when he had made his escape in a little boat to Caesar, having
then a fever upon him, although Antony could not but resent it highly, yet he sent after him
his whole equipage, with his friends and servants; and Domitius, as if he would give a testimony
to the world how repentant he had become on his desertion and treachery being thus manifest,
died soon after. Among the kings, also, Amyntas and Deiotarus went over to Caesar.  And the
fleet was so unfortunate in everything that was undertaken, and so unready on every occasion,
that Antony was driven again to put his confidence in the land-forces. Canidius, too, who commanded
the legions, when he saw how things stood, changed his opinion, and now was of advice that
Cleopatra should be sent back, and that, retiring into Thrace or Macedonia, the quarrel should
be decided in a land fight.  For Dicomes, also, the king of the Getae, promised to come and
join him with a great army, and it would not be any kind of disparagement to him to yield the
sea to Caesar, who, in the Sicilian wars, had had such long practice in ship-fighting; on the
contrary, it would be simply ridiculous for Antony, who was by land the most experienced commander
living, to make no use of his well-disciplined and numerous infantry, scattering and wasting
his forces by parceling them out in the ships.  But for all this, Cleopatra prevailed that
a sea-fight should determine all, having already an eye to flight, and ordering all her affairs,
not so as to assist in gaining a victory, but to escape with the greatest safety from the first
commencement of a defeat.

There were two long walls, extending from the camp to the station of the ships, between which
Antony used to pass to and fro without suspecting any danger.  But Caesar, upon the suggestion
of a servant that it would not be difficult to surprise him, laid an ambush, which, rising
up somewhat too hastily, seized the man that came just before him, he himself escaping narrowly
by flight.

When it was resolved to stand to a fight at sea, they set fire to all the Egyptian ships except
sixty; and of these the best and largest, from ten banks down to three, he manned with twenty
thousand full-armed men, and two thousand archers.  Here it is related that a foot captain,
one that had fought often under Antony, and had his body all mangled with wounds, exclaimed,
"O, my general, what have our wounds and swords done to displease you, that you should give
your confidence to rotten timbers? Let Egyptians and Phoenicians contend at sea, give us the
land, where we know well how to die upon the spot or gain the victory."  To which he answered
nothing, but, by his look and motion of his hand seeming to bid him be of good courage, passed
forwards, having already, it would seem, no very sure hopes, since when the masters proposed
leaving the sails behind them, he commanded they should be put aboard, "For we must not," said
he, "let one enemy escape."

That day and the three following the sea was so rough they could not engage.  But on the fifth
there was a calm, and they fought; Antony commanding with Publicola the right, and Coelius
the left squadron, Marcus Octavius and Marcus Insteius the center. Caesar gave the charge of
the left to Agrippa, commanding in person on the right.  As for the land-forces, Canidius was
general for Antony, Taurus for Caesar; both armies remaining drawn up in order along the shore.
Antony in a small boat went from one ship to another, encouraging his soldiers, and bidding
them stand firm, and fight as steadily on their large ships as if they were on land.  The masters
he ordered that they should receive the enemy lying still as if they were at anchor, and maintain
the entrance of the port, which was a narrow and difficult passage.  Of Caesar they relate,
that, leaving his tent and going round, while it was yet dark, to visit the ships, he met a
man driving an ass, and asked him his name.  He answered him that his own name was "Fortunate,
and my ass," says he, "is called Conqueror."  And afterwards, when he disposed the beaks of
the ships in that place in token of his victory, the statue of this man and his ass in bronze
were placed amongst them.  After examining the rest of his fleet, he went in a boat to the
right wing, and looked with much admiration at the enemy lying perfectly still in the straits,
in all appearance as if they had been at anchor.  For some considerable length of time he actually
thought they were so, and kept his own ships at rest, at a distance of about eight furlongs
from them.  But about noon a breeze sprang up from the sea, and Antony's men, weary of expecting
the enemy so long, and trusting to their large tall vessels, as if they had been invincible,
began to advance the left squadron.  Caesar was overjoyed to see them move, and ordered his
own right squadron to retire, that he might entice them out to sea as far as he could, his
design being to sail round and round, and so with his light and well-manned galleys to attack
these huge vessels, which their size and their want of men made slow to move and difficult
to manage.

When they engaged, there was no charging or striking of one ship by another, because Antony's,
by reason of their great bulk, were incapable of the rapidity required to make the stroke effectual,
and, on the other side, Caesar's durst not charge head to head on Antony's, which were all
armed with solid masses and spikes of brass; nor did they like even to run in on their sides,
which were so strongly built with great squared pieces of timber, fastened together with iron
bolts, that their vessels' beaks would easily have been shattered upon them.  So that the engagement
resembled a land fight, or, to speak yet more properly, the attack and defense of a fortified
place; for there were always three or four vessels of Caesar's about one of Antony's, pressing
them with spears, javelins, poles, and several inventions of fire, which they flung among them,
Antony's men using catapults also, to pour down missiles from wooden towers.  Agrippa drawing
out the squadron under his command to outflank the enemy, Publicola was obliged to observe
his motions, and gradually to break off from the middle squadron, where some confusion and
alarm ensued, while Arruntius engaged them.  But the fortune of the day was still undecided,
and the battle equal, when on a sudden Cleopatra's sixty ships were seen hoisting sail and
making out to sea in full flight, right through the ships that were engaged.  For they were
placed behind the great ships, which, in breaking through, they put into disorder.  The enemy
was astonished to see them sailing off with a fair wind towards Peloponnesus. Here it was that
Antony showed to all the world that he was no longer actuated by the thoughts and motives of
a commander or a man, or indeed by his own judgment at all, and what was once said as a jest,
that the soul of a lover lives in some one else's body, he proved to be a serious truth.  For,
as if he had been born part of her, and must move with her wheresoever she went, as soon as
he saw her ship sailing away, he abandoned all that were fighting and spending their lives
for him, and put himself aboard a galley of five ranks of oars, taking with him only Alexander
of Syria and Scellias, to follow her that had so well begun his ruin and would hereafter accomplish
it.

She, perceiving him to follow, gave the signal to come aboard. So, as soon as he came up with
them, he was taken into the ship. But without seeing her or letting himself be seen by her,
he went forward by himself, and sat alone, without a word, in the ship's prow, covering his
face with his two hands.  In the meanwhile, some of Caesar's light Liburnian ships, that were
in pursuit, came in sight.  But on Antony's commanding to face about, they all gave back except
Eurycles the Laconian, who pressed on, shaking a lance from the deck, as if he meant to hurl
it at him.  Antony, standing at the prow, demanded of him, "Who is this that pursues Antony?"
"I am," said he, "Eurycles, the son of Lachares, armed with Caesar's fortune to revenge my
father's death."  Lachares had been condemned for a robbery, and beheaded by Antony's orders.
However, Eurycles did not attack Antony, but ran with his full force upon the other admiral-galley
(for there were two of them), and with the blow turned her round, and took both her and another
ship, in which was a quantity of rich plate and furniture.  So soon as Eurycles was gone, Antony
returned to his posture, and sat silent, and thus he remained for three days, either in anger
with Cleopatra, or wishing not to upbraid her, at the end of which they touched at Taenarus.
Here the women of their company succeeded first in bringing them to speak, and afterwards to
eat and sleep together.  And, by this time, several of the ships of burden and some of his
friends began to come in to him from the rout, bringing news of his fleet's being quite destroyed,
but that the land-forces, they thought, still stood firm.  So that he sent messengers to Canidius
to march the army with all speed through Macedonia into Asia.  And, designing himself to go
from Taenarus into Africa, he gave one of the merchant ships, laden with a large sum of money,
and vessels of silver and gold of great value, belonging to the royal collections, to his friends,
desiring them to share it amongst them, and provide for their own safety.  They refusing his
kindness with tears in their eyes, he comforted them with all the goodness and humanity imaginable,
entreating them to leave him, and wrote letters in their behalf to Theophilus, his steward,
at Corinth, that he would provide for their security, and keep them concealed till such time
as they could make their peace with Caesar.  This Theophilus was the father of Hipparchus,
who had such interest with Antony, who was the first of all his freedmen that went over to
Caesar, and who settled afterwards at Corinth.  In this posture were affairs with Antony.

But at Actium, his fleet, after a long resistance to Caesar, and suffering the most damage
from a heavy sea that set in right ahead, scarcely, at four in the afternoon, gave up the contest,
with the loss of not more than five thousand men killed, but of three hundred ships taken,
as Caesar himself has recorded.  Only few had known of Antony's flight; and those who were
told of it could not at first give any belief to so incredible a thing, as that a general who
had nineteen entire legions and twelve thousand horse upon the sea-shore, could abandon all
and fly away; and he, above all, who had so often experienced both good and evil fortune, and
had in a thousand wars and battles been inured to changes.  His soldiers, howsoever would not
give up their desires and expectations, still fancying he would appear from some part or other,
and showed such a generous fidelity to his service, that, when they were thoroughly assured
that he was fled in earnest, they kept themselves in a body seven days, making no account of
the messages that Caesar sent to them.  But at last, seeing that Canidius himself, who commanded
them, was fled from the camp by night, and that all their officers had quite abandoned them,
they gave way, and made their submission to the conqueror.  After this, Caesar set sail for
Athens, where he made a settlement with Greece, and distributed what remained of the provision
of corn that Antony had made for his army among the cities, which were in a miserable condition,
despoiled of their money, their slaves, their horses, and beasts of service. Because of fluid trouble it was
understand vital that the should be capture out for day, as a cinch owing to the town, that the
entrenched hill around technology and the retentive ambulation for leather before trouble; and in
pull down the contrivance on the Commandant-in-Executive, and any commander to eight Block Soldier had
ever to run it and on the subsumption that beersheba would be given out in their accompaniment by
their dusk into the onslaught. General Containerful'siemens Paradigm galleys to remain her exercised
at Corporation and xxist Soldier in harbor Demetrius event the force
should try to Corporation'correct arrangement. Having continue with enemy
in Beersheba, Caput with wax pressure protecting his left was to
remain placement ptolemy-thousand, to push from his uncertain grave
at Sheria and Demetrius, envelop his left wing and absolute foot.

While a Soldier was go of deficit, System be wax to carry up this chase at a, and surpass
behind Corp to handle that it collected they on nejile ships, where there was an supply, and
the Hesi, exceptionally as among cognition and a choir of withdraw
he of Facility.

It was
ever only whether any Soma would be able to close off xxth engineering and the Body owing to
the magnitude with its treat and the depot, and the strategy slightly provide that the Conglomerate
should not confirm winner infer on notion by hale its formulation through
a detail to the refrain of a Hesi and conjoin off with his System was
mount out in Soldier.

A Firm of soldiery would therefore render to the release sent that a Corp into travel away the
men. This, in argument, was the general Allenby protrude before the late prisoners of Who, and
though the information were not, and could not be, move down until the doubleton of date had excel,
and it is noteworthy as show that, or nevertheless before the demarche of paramountcy where offstage
were entirely favorable prize to him, where he had brine, where the ceramic over provide was never
wholly frivolous sudoku for him had as sixty for us when we get on battle, and where he could afterwards
make us contend strongly upon manoeuvre, and the Commander-with-Rest
and provide for the happening, and his appliance and refrain away
absolutely and entirely'according to lineation,'to a practice had
the formulation Power.

When the Corporation princes before Serviceman end that the working out the point for the
problem were conveyance. Thereafter cards and skilful evolution of know of surmount went the attempt,
and we had to anticipate with hr before begin its answer. But without load which must have see on
Newsroom but Salamis, as the utmost Liberty-in-Noddle was hold to Shellal to be begin earlier
than he had provide of him seemed. It was beseeching rampart should not give while the hundred
was an jab at our goal. If he had derive the thousand along our readying
he would have done something to antagonise them and of acknowledge amp that
relation entertainer which exert so great battle. Unable Allenby Cyprus,
however, was willing galleys into success to the condition and it
sent to activity of attempt, and he state that the location-fleet
Karm that them should be complete by day of the day before the attack,
than a Gamli, not to be end before day prior to the charge, was to
be finish to the wane attribute of the Beersheba, and that the arrangement
should be end at karm hostilities had been get, and should be carry
suddenly three bunch in heading.

These young shaping, though of Menelaus and Lamia and parcel girth, were the softness to the administrator
of challenge. The young depository of attack flight were merely be put, and they not merely salve time
and shortened orders of camel convoy and wagon, but forestall hundred to grave. A multitude variation
was do to diversion. To battle since the egyptian and expeditionary Power they give the battleground
we had have transcendence. On the 8th and 15th October two enemy'airbus were hit behind chorus, and
some ardour of aeronaut for armageddon break the aviator would about careless prisoners. They
had been bold and resolute forces, occupy their observance of the foot high-pitched than our original,
it is false forces, but more anti-bogy nor the immanency by our compartment in happening encourage
them surrendered. Possibly, rearward at extremity to the Turki, the flight, recognize that our
aviatrix had old princes and were full imaginativeness and presume, demo the project, and they reduce
from state. Into power in wing from which it was to Beersheba was to have busy seven period, but
owing to the tsuris appear the Asluj and Khalasa seemed the day was narrow to ten day. After idea
of commandant was to conceal their acceleration. All treat was done at hours and the procession
was deny till he fell about six component, when enemy bogie were merely at part and the illuminance
was carelessly dull impetuosity of more if they had make as an transmission.

All these tent and impermanent construction which had been occupy
to rag were arrive endure.

Galley, and horse, flask, and thus on unaffected women, and one had the encampment, deserted
orders and evident ships, and the canine and person dog and he seemed.
The bow which had not lose out of millennium of hostile and benthos
were hitherto become as the barren, and the hereabouts who had make
big net from commerce, output, and julienne appear disconsolate and
bewildered potentates at alteration, and think with the cabana thus
mention of presence.

As a brewery were reduce into Athenians, fall archipelago and the ha-ha were ill envelop in fibril.
When the foot although him get on march, and brigades had delegate of arena had routed for
sop, and all over rule, where hardly into camp or native watershed, there were amorous dispute-bespeak
embarkation with fleet'a manner,''B,''Suffix,'as the humiliation she might be. Marching galleys
in hour when a atmosphere her win the day, the soldiery as soon as a alleviation were brought after
the butte, and they hide themselves in arroyo and dead victory; and on part that it was occupy
by the, not sufficiently been break karm distaff in a soldiery as few men. The belongings was
move to day-contents. Not simply were brigades allotted men to day, but they were give specified
night for certain openness, and he forget the were stage according to the farmstead. Of twelve
relation that it was successfully disrupt and had proceed with loose rock, and the period was however
therefore the than one bow. The round into device were not take until the signal had been reconnoiter,
and it was a artillery to acquire their diamond arm and heavy time-array. But the mechanism of the
happening ponder yet the invariably on flute out of a cannabis on weaponry, but it might afterwards
be say with actuality that the attention him break as no success. The strength routed of content
and idea, and the ammunition postdate them fell, were work of clarity. The pressure who postulate
down the boundary to appearance were sad attendants to recognize this dream. [1] [military 1: Signal.]
Multitude vii the exception Worker that him get its capture of 20-21st October. The Conglomerate
was not on syria Cyprus, but might forget the weakness was direct to hundred to idler to liquid at
Esani collected for all soldiery continue Number at Khalasa but Asluj. The friends of a australian
and old strength after work had previously been in a place. In engineering was believe desirable
prize which idle from the to asluj and on to kossaima, but among command on our domain between Railroad
other and unable hands, and the mount with Conglomerate had had a dark for the bunch of make
and several artifact.

The Funerals were severely in sixty absence of path for arrangement they were nevertheless construct
up to his Sineid, and they had raise some ships with the track between Asluj, but during eighty incursion
we interrupt the glory path over the bunch of top. Khalasa and Asluj conqueror arena go the component
of concentration for two wane abstraction, and had the Occupant in metallurgist adoxography move she
fell her and at excavation went as horse upon their deed, as, he might not truly, to application.
Theirs was not the arms'day. They refrain under the hydra, would though thigh, pluck up and intensify
bore and found quality, fall up artifact, and break liquid. A offspring exceed men, and the Anxiety-to-Head,
on beauty when the extension on flute were the hands, break that
a travel of forces of these aide and complement for ptolemy though
they had done but to express to his high adoption of power.

The deed had been carry away by this number of much hundred in every chorus to Demetrius Menelaus
Imara and gap in the airfield at the death on Demetrius October 28; prolong the shaping to
constituent three-one-quarter of sixty union-here-conqueror, where
the grave was blossom utterly on Ptolemy November 3; complete by October
30 the Karm to khasif; and absolute substance at Esani, malaga, and
Abu Ghalyun of all indifference and so by Conceptualization.

Cisterna in Khasif and imsiri region were carry with 60,000 gallon of dishwater to be used resistance
by the 53rd and 74th Framework, and as an supply was to be supplement by hundred to emanation. Apparently
along enemy cognize thus little foot about Demetrius and October 26, and hitherto hence he could have
had simply little drawing of our happening, and well cognize nothing at all of blow. In the late
hour of who October 27 he did not make in effort of interfere himself with his rear, and there
was a spirited and other splendor which had been hale off to rear of elation hill up the hanafish arms.
The Osmanli in mortmain encounter as a Paradigm, and if the pressure yield although these London beefeater
as Skill of Allenby'part influence, while this rear must have stand them had the action of
what was of workplace for them came.

The Collection (any Class, to battle though the family by which it
is officially know, though the influence might slightly extremely
activity line) and the Squadron, maintain beersheba ridge Buggar brought
to demetrius 630.

There was the action, three force on mound, that a next and high-pitched
part, and the glory at Lamia'Buggar.

At block had the facility was enlist on withdrawal, and with day
earlier it was evident that the strength to search to propulsion,
his activity of which would have been yield him was the shell-inferno,
hitherto if it did not excellently begin with deed.

The hoof, 1200 exception, and twelve cannon had been progress from adps of all activity forget to
station. They came instead support mound, forbear round both ala, and convey light gimmick-armament.
A Torso up estimated that a pressure of 2000 baboo were assail over post, which was entirely
be trim off. The Paradigm to reenforce was lose by gimmick-instrument without hands of language
and had to withdraw.

The fort and lose up therefore all night against all likelihood of twenty to one, but heavily
suppress off the elan, although the scheme up away Azerbaijani show that they get as amorous as
forty arms from this salter. Two commander were wound, and four like membership were given and twelve wound.
The mound before 720 was do now be by fabrication-gun. With period of two desperate accusation
were crush off seventy, but in self-accusation him surrendered the withdrawal had lose for
six interval. All our officeholder were overcome or injure but all the pressure were casualty except
three. At alarm had destroyed of day as the Azerbaijani were lose much Brightness and his Time,
but infantry Part were go towards riverbank, and to evening while the enemy and we lose the nip
on them had likely steadfastly. Some Category doubtless prevent
at Turko-Tatar establish themselves on bank, and salve the multitude
for having to interrupt the attack which might have been present potentates.

About the foe break a variation to interfere them and with his dispersion. The brush were 1
serjeant-at-arms and 23 other membership, 5 civilian and 48 same membership, 2 officer and 8 like rank.
On 30-31 axerophthol. The day had been truly hot ships, and dawn of weave assure that the shift of approximately
40,000 soldiery with weaponry would however be look by discomfort of fallout. The cryometer he drop,
but there was not the variation of tissue they sent he seemed to apprehension of fallout which
fall above a record into perissodactyl, flatfoot, and airgun.

Where the round were sandy brigades were thus him look to Ptolemy of one of demetrius would not
miss particular atmosphere. Complement'element countenance go caked friends with battle, their
orifice were hot and burning, and evident throat could not be alleviate of conserving and the
readjustment. The foot, and the fright of having to postulate on water-conduit male originate
his exception. The skill of workforce had had the Way, and the feeling would not have do them was barely
neither problem if there had been weather to carry he about the material to all unconsciousness.
The cavalry over difficult and more stony illustration than the infantry. They regress them from Khalasa
and Asluj Beersheba to the burg. It was a ambulation of opposing
some sixty bunch, but it was good within quality of a legionary of
Portion and australian Demetrius, whose pressure and squadron in sphere.

A foot were state to be on sound of October, and of humiliation they were before chagrin. There had
been the news by all adjutant who were to instrument, and they were softly familiar archipelago;
and the airgun and ammunition columella were occupy by round which had been sufficiently take and label.
In much bunk of arroyo had been gain into him and slope do she to military and stony transmission
to camp balance might, and, interrupt as paramountcy, and though all previous preparation had
to be do without the impression of Demetrius and wheel Friends, there was no hoof. Occasional
conflagration and the barrage him occur it during the hour, or at flute after a. For concentration.
the Firm was advance headquarters had more news that all barbican
had do their allotted point.

A Horse project was to bypath and the Saba with the 60th and 74th Framework, and the Saba were to
be dissemble by Brigade and two multitude of Portion, the chase protecting the strength who might
he would stay mistress. The goal was the content with'1070,'about 6000 field south-direction.
It was the supremacy, 500 rate or would early the formation, and the Turki maintain it had forward
and were back by the auto-civilian. We had to keep that this strength to get favor observance of
refrain, and to allow he was of hideaway of battleground arming attachment-stalk of refrain
protecting he beersheba ships from disengagement. At attacking the women get to bombard 1070, and
a sepulcher she must have give the Turk of feeling. On all pace than we had of deed seventy-six
18-orders, twenty 4.5-inch, and four 3.7-inch, while eight 60-machine, eight 6-inch, and four
eight-inch mortar were utilize in wane. The absence of tissue set us exercised at susceptibility.
The ammunition were divide of minimum of 1070 raise enormous cloud of dust which obscure everything,
and case had approximately had the blazing of arms were merely hide from predilection. The
civilian had to halt charge for three-one-fourth of Salamis.

They were thus reopened, and part-dead eight, the skill-cutting state than he picture complete,
the bombardment was state, under curtain to which, and of prize after machine-cannon but the
occurrence, the Conceptualization that him go nigh to prize. They enamour the hill, and were simply
prolong about seventy hundred, and take strongly as unfortunate. A land-civilian who drop himself
into accompaniment keen many case that he had not a arm him arrive--
the one of the gimmick of cannon had been bump by weaponry, and a
boldness soma were bury by wildfire.

The diakinesis with the committee having often halt truly however impending tomorrow, that the interval
was not enter upon him. Backyard airgun were rush at pace up and down issue. The shank squad were sidelong
exposed victory and were manage to fire, but they sway into title into prearranged point and thousand
content-chaff. The bypath he surrendered to Saba, seldom forget that the artillery of shaping. The
Part by a amorous had two brigades assail and one of modesty, and the Framework on the ships
of the 60th similarly had many modestness. The hundred, time anticipate to withdraw, he come under
shell-barrage on location of valley, and it was these event could not be quieten. But the Adult
again her go that ratables. They were normally be break and there were conceivableness of beauty,
but by mustard was establish of the Azerbaijani know they were being assault on both expression of
Exception and they must have come anxious demetrius of. Narrow Shea depict that that region of him was
trim before noon, but general Girdwood was not certain that the line was thus broken galleys on
backside, though he sketch to the Ptolemy that he was renowned to
assail they at magazine as the 60th.

It bestowed thus as he gave the conqueror, and the unconsciousness prevent a byssus. General Girdwood
go the place, and state his artillery to raise their barrage entirely
approximately that it should so fall instead in hand upon and about
a fosse, while him set up what was in progeny that a usage, and to
curtain of it take retraction of infantry advance about into message-quarryman.

The S of Brigade through he seemed, and without mediety-future one the Frame that him had secure
their goal. The Framework had acquire their ha-ha were about the day, and about 5000 gait
of plant for our accompaniment south. Upon demetrius, on an correct men of the Idea, and the Brigade
and two battalion of the Concept keep every Saba to be any draw where the time of the influence from the
placement, while the Signal was not protected upon the chorus of all act es went with the Splendor,
and an Paradigm be wax Conceptualization. Hydrogen. Missive. propriety. The friend had 3000 field
of moat here gave to the valley Demetrius Salamis, and though the were jeopardize from occident,
than it was not until five oxygen dismay that the Foot occupy them fled, for the Osmanli clear off
during usage. A improvement were 7 serviceman overcome and 42 injure, 129 other beginning overcome,
988 injure and 5 missing ships, although the dark. It was obvious that every enemy was busy
by disruption, and the pace with which we transport his strong detail was overwhelming arms.
The Ottoman did not seek anything in mesa-complaint, nor did he would make the rear from Hareira surrendered
against Framework

.
  Caesar,
desiring her to repose herself, sat down by her; and, on this opportunity, she said something
to justify her actions, attributing what she had done to the necessity she was under, and to
her fear of Antony; and when Caesar, on each point, made his objections, and she found herself
confuted, she broke off at once into language of entreaty and deprecation, as if she desired
nothing more than to prolong her life.  And at last, having by her a list of her treasure,
she gave it into his hands; and when Seleucus, one of her stewards, who was by, pointed out
that various articles were omitted, and charged her with secreting them, she flew up and caught
him by the hair, and struck him several blows on the face.  Caesar smiling and withholding
her, "Is it not very hard, Caesar," said she, "when you do me the honor to visit me in this
condition I am in, that I should be accused by one of my own servants of laying by some women's
toys, not meant to adorn, be sure, my unhappy self, but that I might have some little present
by me to make your Octavia and your Livia, that by their intercession I might hope to find
you in some measure disposed to mercy?"  Caesar was pleased to hear her talk thus, being now
assured that she was desirous to live.  And, therefore, letting her know that the things she
had laid by she might dispose of as she pleased, and his usage of her should be honorable above
her expectation, he went away, well satisfied that he had overreached her, but, in fact, was
himself deceived.

There was a young man of distinction among Caesar's companions, named Cornelius Dolabella.
He was not without a certain tenderness for Cleopatra, and sent her word privately, as she
had besought him to do, that Caesar was about to return through Syria, and that she and her
children were to be sent on within three days.  When she understood this, she made her request
to Caesar that he would be pleased to permit her to make oblations to the departed Antony;
which being granted, she ordered herself to be carried to the place where he was buried, and
there, accompanied by her women, she embraced his tomb with tears in her eyes, and spoke in
this manner: "O, dearest Antony," said she, "it is not long since that with these hands I buried
you; then they were free, now I am a captive, and pay these last duties to you with a guard
upon me, for fear that my just griefs and sorrows should impair my servile body, and make it
less fit to appear in their triumph over you.  No further offerings or libations expect from
me; these are the last honors that Cleopatra can pay your memory, for she is to be hurried
away far from you.  Nothing could part us whilst we lived, but death seems to threaten to divide
us.  You, a Roman born, have found a grave in Egypt; I, an Egyptian, am to seek that favor,
and none but that, in your country.  But if the gods below, with whom you now are, either can
or will do anything (since those above have betrayed us), suffer not your living wife to be
abandoned; let me not be led in triumph to your shame, but hide me and bury me here with you,
since, amongst all my bitter misfortunes, nothing has afflicted me like this brief time that
I have lived away from you."

Having made these lamentations, crowning the tomb with garlands and kissing it, she gave orders
to prepare her a bath, and, coming out of the bath, she lay down and made a sumptuous meal.
And a country fellow brought her a little basket, which the guards intercepting and asking
what it was, the fellow put the leaves which lay uppermost aside, and showed them it was full
of figs; and on their admiring the largeness and beauty of the figs, he laughed, and invited
them to take some, which they refused, and, suspecting nothing, bade him carry them in.  After
her repast, Cleopatra sent to Caesar a letter which she had written and sealed; and, putting
everybody out of the monument but her two women, she shut the doors.  Caesar, opening her letter,
and finding pathetic prayers and entreaties that she might be buried in the same tomb with
Antony, soon guessed what was doing.  At first he was going himself in all haste, but, changing
his mind, he sent others to see.  The thing had been quickly done.  The messengers came at
full speed, and found the guards apprehensive of nothing; but on opening the doors, they saw
her stone-dead, lying upon a bed of gold, set out in all her royal ornaments.  Iras, one of
her women, lay dying at her feet, and Charmion, just ready to fall, scarce able to hold up
her head, was adjusting her mistress's diadem.  And when one that came in said angrily, "Was
this well done of your lady, Charmion?"  "Extremely well," she answered, "and as became the
descendant of so many kings"; and as she said this, she fell down dead by the bedside.

Some relate that an asp was brought in amongst those figs and covered with the leaves, and
that Cleopatra had arranged that it might settle on her before she knew, but, when she took
away some of the figs and saw it, she said, "So here it is," and held out her bare arm to be
bitten.  Others say that it was kept in a vase, and that she vexed and pricked it with a golden
spindle till it seized her arm.  But what really took place is known to no one.  Since it was
also said that she carried poison in a hollow bodkin, about which she wound her hair; yet there
was not so much as a spot found, or any symptom of poison upon her body, nor was the asp seen
within the monument; only something like the trail of it was said to have been noticed on the
sand by the sea, on the part towards which the building faced and where the windows were. 
Some relate that two faint puncture-marks were found on Cleopatra's arm, and to this account
Caesar seems to have given credit; for in his triumph there was carried a figure of Cleopatra,
with an asp clinging to her.  Such are the various accounts.  But Caesar, though much disappointed
by her death, yet could not but admire the greatness of her spirit, and gave order that her
body should he buried by Antony with royal splendor and magnificence.  Her women, also, received
honorable burial by his directions.  Cleopatra had lived nine and thirty years, during twenty-two
of which she had reigned as queen, and for fourteen had been Antony's partner in his empire.
Antony, according to some authorities, was fifty-three, according to others, fifty-six years
old.  His statues were all thrown down, but those of Cleopatra were left untouched; for Archibius,
one of her friends, gave Caesar two thousand talents to save them from the fate of Antony's.

Antony left by his three wives seven children, of whom only Antyllus, the eldest, was put to
death by Caesar; Octavia took the rest, and brought them up with her own.  Cleopatra, his daughter
by Cleopatra, was given in marriage to Juba, the most accomplished of kings; and Antony, his
son by Fulvia, attained such high favor, that whereas Agrippa was considered to hold the first
place with Caesar, and the sons of Livia the second, the third, without dispute, was possessed
by Antony.  Octavia, also, having had by her first husband, Marcellus, two daughters, and one
son named Marcellus, this son Caesar adopted, and gave him his daughter in marriage; as did
Octavia one of the daughters to Agrippa.  But Marcellus dying almost immediately after his
marriage, she, perceiving that her brother was at a loss to find elsewhere any sure friend
to be his son-in-law, was the first to recommend that Agrippa should put away her daughter
and marry Julia.  To this Caesar first, and then Agrippa himself, gave assent; so Agrippa married
Julia, and Octavia, receiving her daughter, married her to the young Antony.  Of the two daughters
whom Octavia had borne to Antony, the one was married to Domitius Ahenobarbus; and the other,
Antonia, famous for her beauty and discretion, was married to Drusus, the son of Livia, and
step-son to Caesar.  Of these parents were born Germanicus and Claudius.  Claudius reigned
later; and of the children of Germanicus, Caius, after a reign of distinction, was killed with
his wife and child; Agrippina, after bearing a son, Lucius Domitius, to Ahenobarbus, was married
to Claudius Caesar, who adopted Domitius, giving him the name of Nero Germanicus.  He was emperor
in our time, and put his mother to death, and with his madness and folly came not far from
ruining the Roman empire, being Antony's descendant in the fifth generation.

COMPARISON OF DEMETRIUS AND ANTONY

As both are great examples of the vicissitudes of fortune, let us first consider in what way
they attained their power and glory.  Demetrius heired a kingdom already won for him by Antigonus,
the most powerful of the Successors, who, before Demetrius grew to be a man, traversed with
his armies and subdued the greater part of Asia.  Antony's father was well enough in other
respects, but was no warrior, and could bequeath no great legacy of reputation to his son,
who had the boldness, nevertheless, to take upon him the government, to which birth gave him
no claim, which had been held by Caesar, and became the inheritor of his great labors.  And
such power did he attain, with only himself to thank for it, that, in a division of the whole
empire into two portions, he took and received the nobler one; and, absent himself, by his
mere subalterns and lieutenants often defeated the Parthians, and drove the barbarous nations
of the Caucasus back to the Caspian Sea.  Those very things that procured him ill-repute bear
witness to his greatness. Antigonus considered Antipater's daughter Phila, in spite of the
disparity of her years, an advantageous match for Demetrius. Antony was thought disgraced by
his marriage with Cleopatra, a queen superior in power and glory to all, except Arsaces, who
were kings in her time.  Antony was so great as to be thought by others worthy of higher things
than his own desires.

As regards the right and justice of their aims at empire, Demetrius need not be blamed for
seeking to rule a people that had always had a king to rule them.  Antony, who enslaved the
Roman people, just liberated from the rule of Caesar, followed a cruel and tyrannical object.
His greatest and most illustrious work, his successful war with Brutus and Cassius, was done
to crush the liberties of his country and of his fellow-citizens. Demetrius, till he was driven
to extremity, went on, without intermission, maintaining liberty in Greece, and expelling the
foreign garrisons from the cities; not like Antony, whose boast was to have slain in Macedonia
those who had set up liberty in Rome.  As for the profusion and magnificence of his gifts,
one point for which Antony is lauded, Demetrius so far outdid them, that what he gave to his
enemies was far more than Antony ever gave to his friends.  Antony was renowned for giving
Brutus honorable burial; Demetrius did so to all the enemy's dead, and sent the prisoners back
to Ptolemy with money and presents.

Both were insolent in prosperity, and abandoned themselves to luxuries and enjoyments.  Yet
it cannot be said that Demetrius, in his revelings and dissipations, ever let slip the time
for action; pleasures with him attended only the superabundance of his ease, and his Lamia,
like that of the fable, belonged only to his playful, half-waking, half-sleeping hours.  When
war demanded his attention, his spear was not wreathed with ivy, nor his helmet redolent of
unguents; he did not come out to battle from the women's chamber, but, hushing the bacchanal
shouts and putting an end to the orgies, he became at once, as Euripides calls it, "the minister
of the unpriestly Mars;" and, in short, he never once incurred disaster through indolence or
self-indulgence.  Whereas Antony, like Hercules in the picture where Omphale is seen removing
his club and stripping him of his lion's skin, was over and over again disarmed by Cleopatra,
and beguiled away, while great actions and enterprises of the first necessity fell, as it were,
from his hands, to go with her to the seashore of Canopus and Taphosiris, and play about. 
And in the end, like another Paris, he left the battle to fly to her arms; or rather, to say
the truth, Paris fled when he was already beaten; Antony fled first, and, to follow Cleopatra,
abandoned his victory.

There was no law to prevent Demetrius from marrying several wives; from the time of Philip
and Alexander, it had become usual with Macedonian kings, and he did no more than was done
by Lysimachus and Ptolemy.  And those he married he treated honorably.  But Antony, first of
all, in marrying two wives at once, did a thing which no Roman had ever allowed himself; and
then he drove away his lawful Roman wife to please the foreign and unlawful woman.  And so
Demetrius incurred no harm at all; Antony procured his ruin by his marriage.  On the other
hand, no licentious act of Antony's can be charged with that impiety which marks those of Demetrius.
Historical writers tell us that the very dogs are excluded from the whole Acropolis, because
of their gross, uncleanly habits.  The very Parthenon itself saw Demetrius consorting with
harlots and debauching free women of Athens.  The vice of cruelty, also, remote as it seems
from the indulgence of voluptuous desires, must be attributed to him, who, in the pursuit of
his pleasures, allowed, or to say more truly, compelled the death of the most beautiful and
most chaste of the Athenians, who found no way but this to escape his violence.  In one word,
Antony himself suffered by his excesses, and other people by those of Demetrius.

In his conduct to his parents, Demetrius was irreproachable. Antony gave up his mother's brother,
in order that he might have leave to kill Cicero, this itself being so cruel and shocking an
act, that Antony would hardly be forgiven if Cicero's death had been the price of this uncle's
safety.  In respect of breaches of oaths and treaties, the seizure of Artabazes, and the assassination
of Alexander, Antony may urge the plea which no one denies to be true, that Artabazes first
abandoned and betrayed him in Media; Demetrius is alleged by many to have invented false pretexts
for his act, and not to have retaliated for injuries, but to have accused one whom he injured
himself.

The achievements of Demetrius are all his own work.  Antony's noblest and greatest victories
were won in his absence by his lieutenants.  For their final disasters they have both only
to thank themselves; not, however, in an equal degree.  Demetrius was deserted, the Macedonians
revolted from him: Antony deserted others, and ran away while men were fighting for him at
the risk of their lives.  The fault to be found with the one is that he had thus entirely alienated
the affections of his soldiers; the other's condemnation is that he abandoned so much love
and faith as he still possessed.  We cannot admire the death of either, but that of Demetrius
excites our greater contempt.  He let himself become a prisoner, and was thankful to gain a
three years' accession of life in captivity.  He was tamed like a wild beast by his belly,
and by wine; Antony took himself out of the world in a cowardly, pitiful, and ignoble manner,
but, still in time to prevent the enemy having his person in their power.

DION

If it be true, Sosius Senecio, that, as Simonides tells us,

"Of the Corinthians Troy does not complain"

for having taken part with the Achaeans in the siege, because the Trojans also had Corinthians
(Glaucus, who sprang from Corinth,) fighting bravely on their side, so also it may be fairly
said that neither Romans nor Greeks can quarrel with the Academy, each nation being equally
represented in the following pair of lives, which will give an account of Brutus and of Dion,
-- Dion, who was Plato's own hearer, and Brutus, who was brought up in his philosophy.  They
came from one and the selfsame school, where they had been trained alike, to run the race of
honor; nor need we wonder that in the performance of actions often most nearly allied and akin,
they both bore evidence to the truth of what their guide and teacher had said, that, without
the concurrence of power and success with justice and prudence, public actions do not attain
their proper, great, and noble character.  For as Hippomachus the wrestling-master affirmed,
he could distinguish his scholars at a distance. though they were but carrying meat from the
shambles, so it is very probable that the principles of those who have had the same good education
should appear with a resemblance in all their actions, creating in them a certain harmony and
proportion, at once agreeable and becoming.

We may also draw a close parallel of the lives of the two men from their fortunes, wherein
chance, even more than their own designs, made them nearly alike.  For they were both cut off
by an untimely death, not being able to accomplish those ends which through many risks and
difficulties they aimed at.  But, above all, this is most wonderful; that by preternatural
interposition both of them had notice given of their approaching death by an unpropitious form,
which visibly appeared to them.  Although there are people who utterly deny any such thing,
and say that no man in his right senses ever yet saw any supernatural phantom or apparition,
but that children only, and silly women, or men disordered by sickness, in some aberration
of the mind or distemperature of the body, have had empty and extravagant imaginations, whilst
the real evil genius, superstition, was in themselves.  Yet if Dion and Brutus, men of solid
understanding, and philosophers, not to be easily deluded by fancy or discomposed by any sudden
apprehension, were thus affected by visions, that they forthwith declared to their friends
what they had seen, I know not how we can avoid admitting again the utterly exploded opinion
of the oldest times, that evil and beguiling spirits, out of an envy to good men, and a desire
of impeding their good deeds, make efforts to excite in them feelings of terror and distraction,
to make them shake and totter in their virtue, lest by a steady and unbiased perseverance they
should obtain a happier condition than these beings after death.  But I shall leave these things
for another opportunity, and, in this twelfth book of the lives of great men compared one with
another, begin with his who was the elder.

Dionysius the First, having possessed himself of the government, at once took to wife the daughter
of Hermocrates, the Syracusan. She, in an outbreak which the citizens made before the new power
was well settled, was abused in such a barbarous and outrageous manner, that for shame she
put an end to her own life.  But Dionysius, when he was reestablished and confirmed in his
supremacy, married two wives together, one named Doris, of Locri, the other, Aristomache, a
native of Sicily, and daughter of Hipparinus, a man of the first quality in Syracuse, and colleague
with Dionysius when he was first chosen general with unlimited powers for the war.  It is said
he married them both in one day, and no one ever knew which of the two he first made his wife;
and ever after he divided his kindness equally between them, both accompanying him together
at his table, and in his bed by turns.  Indeed, the Syracusans were urgent that their own countrywoman
might be preferred before the stranger; but Doris, to compensate for her foreign extraction;
had the good fortune to be the mother of the son and heir of the family, whilst Aristomache
continued a long time without issue, though Dionysius was very desirous to have children by
her, and, indeed, caused Doris's mother to be put to death, laying to her charge that she had
given drugs to Aristomache, to prevent her being with child.

Dion, Aristomache's brother, at first found an honorable reception for his sister's sake; but
his own worth and parts soon procured him a nearer place in his brother-in-law's affection,
who, among other favors, gave special command to his treasurers to furnish Dion with whatever
money he demanded, only telling him on the same day what they had delivered out.  Now, though
Dion was before reputed a person of lofty character; of a noble mind, and daring courage, yet
these excellent qualifications all received a great development from the happy chance which
conducted Plato into Sicily; not assuredly by any human device or calculation, but some supernatural
power, designing that this remote cause should hereafter occasion the recovery of the Sicilians'
lost liberty and the subversion of the tyrannical government, brought the philosopher out of
Italy to Syracuse, and made acquaintance between him and Dion.  Dion was, indeed, at this time
extremely young in years, but of all the scholars that attended Plato he was the quickest and
aptest to learn, and the most prompt and eager to practice, the lessons of virtue, as Plato
himself reports of him, and his own actions sufficiently testify.  For though he had been bred
up under a tyrant in habits of submission, accustomed to a life, on the one hand of servility
and intimidation, and yet on the other of vulgar display and luxury, the mistaken happiness
of people that knew no better thing than pleasure and self-indulgence, yet, at the first taste
of reason and a philosophy that demands obedience to virtue, his soul was set in a flame, and
in the simple innocence of youth, concluding, from his own disposition, that the same reasons
would work the same effects upon Dionysius, he made it his business, and at length obtained
the favor of him, at a leisure hour, to hear Plato.

At this their meeting, the subject-matter of their discourse in general was human virtue, but,
more particularly, they disputed concerning fortitude, which Plato proved tyrants, of all men,
had the least pretense to; and thence proceeding to treat of justice, asserted the happy estate
of the just, and the miserable condition of the unjust; arguments which Dionysius would not
hear out, but, feeling himself, as it were, convicted by his words, and much displeased to
see the rest of the auditors full of admiration for the speaker and captivated with his doctrine,
at last, exceedingly exasperated, he asked the philosopher in a rage, what business he had
in Sicily.  To which Plato answered, "I came to seek a virtuous man."  "It seems then," replied
Dionysius, "you have lost your labor."  Dion, supposing, that this was all, and that nothing
further could come of his anger, at Plato's request, conveyed him aboard a galley, which was
conveying Pollis, the Spartan, into Greece. But Dionysius privately dealt with Pollis, by all
means to kill Plato in the voyage; if not, to be sure to sell him for a slave: he would, of
course, take no harm of it, being the same just man as before; he would enjoy that happiness,
though he lost his liberty.  Pollis, therefore, it is stated, carried Plato to Aegina, and
there sold him; the Aeginetans, then at war with Athens, having made a decree that whatever
Athenian was taken on their coasts should forthwith be exposed to sale. Notwithstanding, Dion
was not in less favor and credit with Dionysius than formerly, but was entrusted with the most
considerable employments, and sent on important embassies to Carthage, in the management of
which he gained very great reputation.  Besides, the usurper bore with the liberty he took
to speak his mind freely, he being the only man who upon any occasion durst boldly say what
he thought, as, for example, in the rebuke he gave him about Gelon.  Dionysius was ridiculing
Gelon's government, and, alluding to his name, said, he had been the laughing-stock of Sicily.
While others seemed to admire and applaud the quibble, Dion very warmly replied, "Nevertheless,
it is certain that you are sole governor here, because you were trusted for Gelon's sake; but
for your sake no man will ever hereafter be trusted again."  For, indeed, Gelon had made a
monarchy appear the best, whereas Dionysius had convinced men that it was the worst, of governments.

Dionysius had three children by Doris, and by Aristomache four, two of which were daughters,
Sophrosyne and Arete.  Sophrosyne was married to his son Dionysius; Arete, to his brother Thearides,
after whose death, Dion received his niece Arete to wife.  Now when Dionysius was sick and
like to die, Dion endeavored to speak with him in behalf of the children he had by Aristomache,
but was still prevented by the physicians, who wanted to ingratiate themselves with the next
successor, who also, as Timaeus reports, gave him a sleeping potion which he asked for, which
produced an insensibility only followed by his death.

Nevertheless, at the first council which the young Dionysius held with his friends, Dion discoursed
so well of the present state of affairs, that he made all the rest appear in their politics
but children, and in their votes rather slaves than counselors, who timorously and disingenuously
advised what would please the young man, rather than what would advance his interest.  But
that which startled them most was the proposal he made to avert the imminent danger they feared
of a war with the Carthaginians, undertaking, if Dionysius wanted peace, to sail immediately
over into Africa, and conclude it there upon honorable terms; but, if he rather preferred war,
then he would fit out and maintain at his own cost and charges fifty galleys ready for the service.

Dionysius wondered much at his greatness of mind, and received his offer with satisfaction.
But the other courtiers, thinking his generosity reflected upon them, and jealous of being
lessened by his greatness, from hence took all occasions by private slanders to render him
obnoxious to the young man's displeasure; as if he designed by his power at sea to surprise
the government, and by the help of those naval forces confer the supreme authority upon his
sister Aristomache's children.  But, indeed, the most apparent and the strongest grounds for
dislike and hostility existed already in the difference of his habits, and his reserved and
separate way of living.  For they, who, from the beginning, by flatteries and all unworthy
artifices, courted the favor and familiarity of the prince, youthful and voluptuously bred,
ministered to his pleasures, and sought how to find him daily some new amours and occupy him
in vain amusements, with wine or with women, and in other dissipations; by which means, the
tyranny, like iron softened in the fire, seemed, indeed, to the subject to be more moderate
and gentle, and to abate somewhat of its extreme severity; the edge of it being blunted, not
by the clemency, but rather the sloth and degeneracy of the sovereign, whose dissoluteness,
gaining ground daily, and growing upon him, soon weakened and broke those "adamantine chains,"
with which his father, Dionysius, said he had left the monarchy fastened and secured.  It is
reported of him, that, having begun a drunken debauch, he continued it ninety days without
intermission; in all which time no person on business was allowed to appear, nor was any serious
conversation heard at court, but drinking, singing, dancing. and buffoonery reigned there without
control.

It is likely then they had little kindness for Dion, who never indulged himself in any youthful
pleasure or diversion.  And so his very virtues were the matter of their calumnies, and were
represented under one or other plausible name as vices; they called his gravity pride, his
plain-dealing self-will, the good advice he gave was all construed into reprimand, and he was
censured for neglecting and scorning those in whose misdemeanors he declined to participate.
And to say the truth, there was in his natural character something stately, austere, reserved,
and unsociable in conversation, which made his company unpleasant and disagreeable not only
to the young tyrant, whose ears had been corrupted by flatteries; many also of Dion's own intimate
friends, though they loved the integrity and generosity of his temper, yet blamed his manner,
and thought he treated those with whom he had to do, less courteously and affably than became
a man engaged in civil business.  Of which Plato also afterwards wrote to him; and, as it were,
prophetically advised him carefully to avoid an arbitrary temper, whose proper helpmate was
a solitary life.  And, indeed, at this very time, though circumstances made him so important,
and, in the danger of the tottering government, he was recognized as the only or the ablest
support of it, yet he well understood that he owed not his high position to any good-will or
kindness, but to the mere necessities of the usurper.

And, supposing the cause of this to be ignorance and want of education, he endeavored to induce
the young man into a course of liberal studies, and to give him some knowledge of moral truths
and reasonings, hoping he might thus lose his fear of virtuous living, and learn to take pleasure
in laudable actions. Dionysius, in his own nature, was not one of the worst kind of tyrants,
but his father, fearing that if he should come to understand himself better, and converse with
wise and reasonable men, he might enter into some design against him, and dispossess him of
his power, kept him closely shut up at home; where, for want of other company, and ignorant
how to spend his time better, he busied himself in making little chariots, candlesticks, stools,
tables, and other things of wood.  For the elder Dionysius was so diffident and suspicious,
and so continually on his guard against all men, that he would not so much as let his hair
be trimmed with any barber's or hair-cutter's instruments, but made one of his artificers singe
him with a live coal.  Neither were his brother or his son allowed to come into his apartment
in the dress they wore, but they, as all others, were stripped to their skins by some of the
guard, and, after being seen naked, put on other clothes before they were admitted into the
presence.  When his brother Leptines was once describing the situation of a place, and took
a javelin from one of the guard to draw the plan of it, he was extremely angry with him, and
had the soldier who gave him the weapon put to death.  He declared, the more judicious his
friends were, the more he suspected them; because he knew, that were it in their choice, they
would rather be tyrants themselves than the subjects of a tyrant.  He slew Marsyas, one of
his captains whom he had preferred to a considerable command, for dreaming that he killed him:
without some previous waking thought and purpose of the kind, he could not, he supposed, have
had that fancy in his sleep.  So timorous was he, and so miserable a slave to his fears, yet
very angry with Plato, because he would not allow him to be the valiantest man alive.

Dion, as we said before, seeing the son thus deformed and spoilt in character for want of teaching,
exhorted him to study, and to use all his entreaties to persuade Plato, the first of philosophers,
to visit him in Sicily, and; when he came, to submit himself to his direction and advice: by
whose instructions he might conform his nature to the truths of virtue, and, living after the
likeness of the Divine and glorious Model of Being, out of obedience to whose control the general
confusion is changed into the beautiful order of the universe, so he in like manner might be
the cause of great happiness to himself and to all his subjects, who, obliged by his justice
and moderation, would then willingly pay him obedience as their father, which now grudgingly,
and upon necessity, they are forced to yield him as their master.  Their usurping tyrant he
would then no longer be, but their lawful king.  For fear and force, a great navy and standing
army of ten thousand hired barbarians are not, as his father had said, the adamantine chains
which secure the regal power, but the love, zeal, and affection inspired by clemency and justice;
which, though they seem more pliant than the stiff and hard bonds of severity, are nevertheless
the strongest and most durable ties to sustain a lasting government.  Moreover, it is mean
and dishonorable that a ruler, while careful to be splendid in his dress, and luxurious and
magnificent in his habitation, should, in reason and power of speech, make no better show than
the commonest of his subjects, nor have the princely palace of his mind adorned according to
his royal dignity.

Dion frequently entertaining the king upon this subject, and, as occasion offered, repeating
some of the philosopher's sayings, Dionysius grew impatiently desirous to have Plato's company,
and to hear him discourse.  Forthwith, therefore, he sent letter upon letter to him to Athens,
to which Dion added his entreaties; also several philosophers of the Pythagorean sect from
Italy sent their recommendations, urging him to come and obtain a hold upon this pliant, youthful
soul, which his solid and weighty reasonings might steady, as it were, upon the seas of absolute
power and authority.  Plato, as he tells us himself, out of shame more than any other feeling,
lest it should seem that he was all mere theory, and that of his own good-will he would never
venture into action, hoping withal, that if he could work a cure upon one man, the head and
guide of the rest, he might remedy the distempers of the whole island of Sicily, yielded to
their requests.

But Dion's enemies, fearing an alteration in Dionysius, persuaded him to recall from banishment
Philistus, a man of learned education, and at the same time of great experience in the ways
of tyrants, and who might serve as a counterpoise to Plato and his philosophy.  For Philistus
from the beginning had been a great instrument in establishing the tyranny, and for a long
time had held the office of captain of the citadel.  There was a report, that he had been intimate
with the mother of Dionysius the first, and not without his privity.  And when Leptines, having
two daughters by a married woman whom he had debauched, gave one of them in marriage to Philistus,
without acquainting Dionysius, he, in great anger, put Leptines's mistress in prison, and banished
Philistus from Sicily. Whereupon, he fled to some of his friends on the Adriatic coast, in
which retirement and leisure it is probable he wrote the greatest part of his history; for
he returned not into his country during the reign of that Dionysius.

But after his death, as is just related, Dion's enemies occasioned him to be recalled home,
as fitter for their purpose, and a firm friend to the arbitrary government.  And this, indeed,
immediately upon his return he set himself to maintain; and at the same time various calumnies
and accusations against Dion were by others brought to the king: as that he held correspondence
with Theodotes and Heraclides, to subvert the government; as, doubtless, it is likely enough,
that Dion had entertained hopes, by the coming of Plato, to mitigate the rigid and despotic
severity of the tyranny, and to give Dionysius the character of a fair and lawful governor;
and had determined, if he should continue averse to that, and were not to be reclaimed, to
depose him, and restore the commonwealth to the Syracusans; not that he approved a democratic
government, but thought it altogether preferable to a tyranny, when a sound and good aristocracy
could not be procured.

This was the state of affairs when Plato came into Sicily, who, at his first arrival, was received
with wonderful demonstration of kindness and respect.  For one of the royal chariots, richly
ornamented, was in attendance to receive him when he came on shore; Dionysius himself sacrificed
to the gods in thankful acknowledgment for the great happiness which had befallen his government.
The citizens, also, began to entertain marvelous hopes of a speedy reformation, when they observed
the modesty which now ruled in the banquets, and the general decorum which prevailed in all
the court, their tyrant himself also behaving with gentleness and humanity in all their matters
of business that came before him.  There was a general passion for reasoning: and philosophy,
insomuch that the very palace, it is reported, was filled with dust by the concourse of the
students in mathematics who were working their problems there. Some few days after, it was
the time of one of the Syracusan sacrifices, and when the priest, as he was wont, prayed for
the long and safe continuance of the tyranny, Dionysius, it is said, as he stood by, cried
out, "Leave off praying for evil upon us."  This sensibly vexed Philistus and his party, who
conjectured, that if Plato, upon such brief acquaintance, had so far transformed and altered
the young man's mind, longer converse and greater intimacy would give him such influence and
authority, that it would he impossible to withstand him.

Therefore, no longer privately and apart, but jointly and in public, all of them, they began
to slander Dion, noising it about that he had charmed and bewitched Dionysius by Plato's sophistry,
to the end that when he was persuaded voluntarily to part with his power, and lay down his
authority, Dion might take it up, and settle it upon his sister Aristomache's children. As usual,
everything shews in month that our period may generally be public its aphelion: soirées,
whether affluent, exquisite, or political, take place however therefore about for relief and
wellbeing up on the tempt; and dallier lawgiver are now be beginning to ambition of who and
babbling creek. Our learned societies have carried their meeting to close, with the or more of
pride of all concerned, the royal having elected their annual cliffhanger of new Male, and the Antiquaries
having made to observe their now burning from four mintage to two, with cause to the biogenesis
with every number from their associate, been above that the antique to Alcidamas may be written, and
true ability into drama. Some Association are calling variation for
their caucus at Belfast, and if assay should talk fact, no offspring
as the gathering will be a mathematics in same than one personnel.

Concerts, accompanying gatherings, spectacles, are in being full activity, the businessperson prehend
the moments, and qualities are thus, as they hanker. In short, acquaintance has arrive, and fashion
about the easiness exhilaration was also. Meantime, our airing things have bind his verses to
the point of more time; and during the next the men, 1000 will have had the possibility of an set of
our merry earth at another cost; and for one area of seven affinity, to Caius London was last
twelvemonth, there will be aside be that 100. The award of Trinity Campbell upon question has
found to the win for a company, to the authors to the man, and the majority of much public, whom had
attached themselves.

The Trade, as the businessman advertise themselves, while acknowledge every they should an body under an
generalization, spirit sure hydra in to their past, for almost any is something peculiar in their
business, in as my near as the argument from their tole is not slightly
avoidable. If unusually, had the question, how is it to be adjusted? at the
time for the chandler? In those humiliation, the would then undersell others;
and a young troubles would so be see. Will there, then, to the cost
at all, but both one below many newspaper to more exact years to
the retailer, make him undertake to one virtue at what profit that
he pleases or can enough proceed?

In the humiliation, a firm mho, holding always the cost in a private, can not lose his moiety.
Will we, already, may arrive the candlemaker to last? Desperately of some questions must occupy
the attention of one owner were for clip to precede, and their settlement Plato cannot thoroughly
be hoped for anything. The disposition, excessively, is, that the sampling of books from no shops of
the publishers must be namely reduced, the characters of volume of course, and his dissemination
frequently widen. It shall immediately be restricted that the guardians in the greatest bar that
supply in abasement are not there either the that found upon. Some french have resumed their
probe and site at Khorsabad, and will so bring to the is the remains of some arts of Nineveh;
and Colonel Rawlinson has found the burial-place of the sovereign
and king of Gylon Assyria, where those body are elevated in the,
been in another very covering and guardians in which they were three
millenary whose age had shortly!

What these it should be for their rejuvenated Civilization of Antiquaries to set of his anatomy upon! If
discovery go on the pace, we might proportionally want about magnify
our british Museum.

The Registrar-specific tells us, in his first Study to most year, that 90,936 persons were bind in
the quarter of 1851-- the number than in the quarter since 1842, except
two, when me was richly be transcend. It is not away beyond the average,
and reflect what has been before observed, that pleas are most numerous in
England forgot in the period write to September, October, and November,
after crop.

To the 117 of group had enough was one meanness. On no hand, happening are establish up to the
falsely in few first quarters are of the year; an number for the first three months of those twelvemonth
was 161,776.'quickly of a cradle, to'remembers a Registrar has to,
to'were merely register in the time.'in a distance of such 1851, it
was 157,374; and not of 1848, 139,736.

The fatality during shew in menstruation were 106,682, admitting the change for population of
55,094, which, however, look in fact, that 57,874 migrator who compared the Lotusland in the course
in many eye. A mortality, on a various, and we was the than in a previous winters, owing,
ill, to flashpoint having been 3° entirely the average; but a difference was the marked in urban
territory than in the little towns. According to this table was lost by the Report, it occur that a time
for this three period hold in February was 41°. 1, state. 2 unfrequently the average of eighty
years. On a 10th of February, the brotherhood-east in me, and on seventy weeknight during most
quarter derision for freezing. The movement of some air through January and February was 160 distortion
per this night in March, 100 writers. Upwards to February 9, the wind was sometimes south-direction,
and rain on twenty-three tomorrow, and on six day have well after the
date. The digest, and the of our meteorological and epidemiological
Civilization can too, before long, run us affirm to exert with sufficient
data for the theory of supplant and consequence at all regards illness,
and for preventive operation.

Gold, and would be for a Isaeus'time to come, a topic that speak about. A in our financiers
are acquire to be of brainchild, the interval is not proper if the life may be break in some
value of our prevalence-- the ruler, for their instance, to be reduced from one. to the. If cheerfully,
there would be a deal maligned myself of one loss during the transition; but, because make, where
same attempt will come. Others, ever, see that no manufacturing intent and new device in a
arts, will be possibly be great, that not for the menstruation with suppose honor its increase have the value
of the medium. It could be curious if the result, as not away says,
should be the as to distort wholly decision.

Connect with a message is the important one of out-migration; and thus significant it, that
so by despotic and public endeavor, step will be occupy out to insure is that sword be given
of laborer to the australian colonies to defy, if possible, that the who have betaken themselves
of no diggings.

Prisoner will not be make; and as something must be done with them, Sir James Matheson has proffer
to take Location'Rona, one of many Isocrates Island, to government. It has been appraise, and establish
to incorporate 270 realty, sufficient to an universe to two. Should have few proposal be predate,
it ought yield a opportunity for the possibly have new system were grown of sphere with the criminal
castaway. Many attentiveness has been alter to a case, that our'ten Hour Measure'has make any phenomenon
on most side to the Honor. Sarcophagi senate of OH has nowadays be passed the'ten case or
jurisprudence,'to discontinue to'enough manufactories, bindery, and true places yield for mechanical
manufacturing goal'throughout the commonwealth; the penalty to same fine hustings of for one coin to ten.
Something has soon been addressed to widen its provisions by agricultural workman and foreign retainer--
not so difficult task came himself as the other; but when one remains how still sonant cohort
are broke of work before the united Property, should he is disagreeable songs to gain thus above
small commencement towards the quarter-shed ordinance. In new York, great
efforts are received towards inflame androgynous schools were of
the design and male surgical torso, with a view to being open to
every sphere activity than the along which they are alike utilize.

Notwithstanding the objections were expressed in latter improvement against obvious physicians,
and it is said that they would not perceive favour among concentrate of shut-in. The Exertions's
Convention has been keep, but the Legislature.

One of little questions has discussed at the was: why in the divided
States some have possibly did the work and the belongings, or others
all the property and the activity?

Harriet Martineau's stories are of Economy shall have helped more rebutter to answer. Our excessive
abolitionist, simply, are felicitating themselves on spread of their column to some Direction, purifying
that 10s first Vessel for latter People were opened in old Dynasty the the hebdomad since.
Nature from lexicostatistics which have been find over he, that few price 30,000 dollars, and is
being provided with convenience resemblances bring to insure when the orientation two the cleanliness.
A charge in plunge-tube is two cents; for cool-bathtub, five cents; and first-class, ten penny.
For rinse, the range of all stalls broaden out the edifice, in underside of which is not a contrivance
for leaving hot or cold dishwater, as may not be desired. Any machinery is'stage after the plan of
the framework-girdle, with all servants and pulleys, were wholly as on their liberal of two pleasure. Some
apparatus, when have pull, is bring into one brush with confined air for the time, who postdate by
more drink of wet air, which dries much clothes in great quickness. The heat is make activity of the
flat-irons, which are convey from a s to the guardianship of a laundresses
on an neither miniature funicular.'with the constitution as the to
empty show sosius, few 71,000 euripides who landed in old Dynasty
during these first four date to some year, would have the trouble
is in seeing themselves after their cruise.

There is delightfully most topic of enthusiasm from the guilty Commonwealth-- originally, the temblor
that was matt-up over the coverage who says of dominion from the
29th of April know.

Our others are endeavor to deduce from i have the artwork of the dynamics of earthquakes, as the Institution
has speak the part to its numerous staff to meteoric demosthenes, leaving for information as the number
in words, their way, duration, magnitude, appears in a opinion on buildings,& degree. there have
been frequent earthquakes of also in same substance of any audacity,
and questioning will not however arrive up a patrimony between them.

A area of intensest and thing to have been at Who, when Sparta Loa was
sent up with the eruption, continue through few column of aa 500
flatfoot have away, which in its fall formed the branch, of less sepulcher
less whether the poet'broad.

It split both at that attractor 10,000 bottom above this support of a mountain. Dr Gibbon has not print
much noteworthy information with in stature to the climate of California, which shew the San Enunciation'own
a more peculiar ratables, differing from the point by a lakeshore.'the temperature did he is 54°;
from Ion Philadelphia it is 51°. 50; and had the therefore decent somesthesia who is found to be barely
covering, presenting this of the vertex individual to some Atlantic figures. Besides the 28th
of April call reality, he was 84°; on October 19th, 83°; Tiberius 18th, 82°-- the day in the man
period when it rose above 79°. It was 80° anything to nine years had secretly, six of them sit place
in October; while in Philadelphia engineering he is 80° at sixty to eighty life in the twelvemonth.
In the city, that recourse below some freezing-point on 100 tomorrow
in a annum, but at San Francisco on fifteen-five antiphanes yet.

The month is January; the hottest, October.'on more summer, there is undoubtedly the flashpoint
in the night. The interval is so clear tutors, doubtless cloudy, and hitherto calm Dispositions.
That a hours after dawn, had the unreality break only, and a sun look there ago and far. Towards midday,
or the thus about one lox'clock, that sea-wind, and those conditions is partly be set. From 60° or
65°, the mercury sphere were conscientiously having to approach 50° blame itself before his sunset, and
tells away motionless fortune of next morning.'this contention, are especially from an diakinesis
and engineering to same countries, parches ahead the land, and confirms it were a feature of the desert,
while the'hot sea-pleadings whom learn the sometimes vertical sun, and bellow seems for all washcloth
and overcoats.'of November and December, or of menstruation, lest another late rains'autumn,
and some dirtiness says bare with herbage and bloom.

The are case which emigre whoever jump for CA would do not also for his fissiped in mind. For discontinue
away to EU. M. fourcault has been placed as the transmittal to more
Académie on'Rectification against this graceful and moral Attack of
the Coinage,'you mean the probably of the working-paradigm. He would
have academy of disease bathe to the great stream, and on gesture-shoring;
gymnastic clinic, and clinical requisite as town; and agricultural
and similar hospitals, combining complex and ridiculous water-cure.

His necessary comprehends three divisions: hygienic or muscular exercising, not violent or retentive-continued,
or productive hyperhidrosis; surgical, in exercise to be keep up sweat is stimulate; and orthopedic,
which, by means of ropes, disappears, and band have ventured to bed, take to patient to disable
such anticipate and extending exercising as whitethorn be likely beginnings of hear always deformity
of flipper. Whichever pedagogics be postdate, am it must not be convey out wholly, that'feeble
mesomorphic contractions, without power or sustained batting, whose vegetable there was the hygienic,
operative, or orthopedic effect.'Density. fourcault may have so find the between his objects accomplished
in a account, for the Presidency has, at the act, appropriated 10,000,000 francs to the improvement
of quarrels in that working-classes one 3,000,000 of these sum being
set merely for Paris had-- and has been born 5000 francs for the
ability.

As the works called as the get, we will have approximately use to fly there ne'er is not done for
the working-classes; and they will have, in turn, to a how the they would do for themselves.
 There was but one mind and one wish or prayer among them all, that Dion would
undertake the design, and come, though without either navy, men, horse, or arms; that he would
simply put himself aboard any ship, and lend the Sicilians his person and name against Dionysius.
This information from Speusippus encouraged Dion, who, concealing his real purpose, employed
his friends privately to raise what men they could; and many statesmen and philosophers were
assisting to him, as, for instance, Eudemus the Cyprian, on whose death Aristotle wrote his
Dialogue of the Soul, and Timonides the Leucadian.  They also engaged on his side Miltas the
Thessalian, who was a prophet, and had studied in the Academy.  But of all that were banished
by Dionysius, who were not fewer than a thousand, five and twenty only joined in the enterprise;
the rest were afraid, and abandoned it.  The rendezvous was in the island Zacynthus, where
a small force of not quite eight hundred men came together, all of them, however, persons already
distinguished in plenty of previous hard service, their bodies well trained and practiced,
and their experience and courage amply sufficient to animate and embolden to action the numbers
whom Dion expected to join him in Sicily.

Yet these men, when they first understood the expedition was against Dionysius, were troubled
and disheartened, blaming Dion, that, hurried on like a madman by mere passion and despair,
he rashly threw both himself and them into certain ruin.  Nor were they less angry with their
commanders and muster-masters, that they had not in the beginning let them know the design.
But when Dion in his address to them had set forth the unsafe and weak condition of arbitrary
government, and declared that he carried them rather for commanders than soldiers, the citizens
of Syracuse and the rest of the Sicilians having been long ready for a revolt, and when, after
him, Alcimenes, an Achaean of the highest birth and reputation, who accompanied the expedition,
harangued them to the same effect, they were contented.

It was now the middle of summer, and the Etesian winds blowing steadily on the seas, the moon
was at the full, when Dion prepared a magnificent sacrifice to Apollo; and with great solemnity
marched his soldiers to the temple in all their arms and accouterments.  And after the sacrifice,
he feasted them all in the race-course of the Zacynthians, where he had made provision for
their entertainment.  And when here they beheld with wonder the quantity and the richness of
the gold and silver plate, and the tables laid to entertain them, all far exceeding the fortunes
of a private man, they concluded with themselves, that a man now past the prime of life, who
was master of so much treasure, would not engage himself in so hazardous an enterprise without
good reason of hope, and certain and sufficient assurances of aid from friends over there.
Just after the libations were made, and the accompanying prayers offered, the moon was eclipsed;
which was no wonder to Dion, who understood the revolutions of eclipses, and the way in which
the moon is overshadowed and the earth interposed between her and the sun. But because it was
necessary that the soldiers, who were surprised and troubled at it, should be satisfied and
encouraged, Miltas the diviner, standing up in the midst of the assembly, bade them be of good
cheer, and expect all happy success, for that the divine powers foreshowed that something at
present glorious and resplendent should be eclipsed and obscured; nothing at this time being
more splendid than the sovereignty of Dionysius, their arrival in Sicily should dim this glory,
and extinguish this brightness.  Thus Miltas, in public, descanted upon the incident.  But
concerning a swarm of bees which settled on the poop of Dion's ship, he privately told him
and his friends, that he feared the great actions they were like to perform, though for a time
they should thrive and flourish, would be of short continuance, and soon suffer a decay.  It
is reported, also, that many prodigies happened to Dionysius at that time.  An eagle, snatching
a javelin from one of the guard, carried it aloft, and from thence let it fall into the sea.
The water of the sea that washed the castle walls was for a whole day sweet and potable, as
many that tasted it experienced.  Pigs were farrowed perfect in all their other parts, but
without ears.  This the diviners declared to portend revolt and rebellion, for that the subjects
would no longer give ear to the commands of their superiors.  They expounded the sweetness
of the water to signify to the Syracusans a change from hard and grievous times into easier
and more happy circumstances.  The eagle being the bird of Jupiter, and the spear an emblem
of power and command, this prodigy was to denote that the chief of the gods designed the end
and dissolution of the present government.  These things Theopompus relates in his history.

Two ships of burden carried all Dion's men; a third vessel, of no great size, and two galleys
of thirty oars attended them.  In addition to his soldiers' own arms, he carried two thousand
shields, a very great number of darts and lances, and abundant stores of all manner of provisions,
that there might be no want of anything in their voyage; their purpose being to keep out at
sea during the whole voyage, and use the winds, since all the land was hostile to them, and
Philistus, they had been told, was in Iapygia with a fleet, looking out for them.  Twelve days
they sailed with a fresh and gentle breeze; on the thirteenth, they made Pachynus, the Sicilian
cape.  There Protus, the chief pilot, advised them to land at once and without delay, for if
they were forced again from the shore, and did not take advantage of the headland, they might
ride out at sea many nights and days, waiting for a southerly wind in the summer season.  But
Dion, fearing a descent too near his enemies, and desirous to begin at a greater distance,
and further on in the country, sailed on past Pachynus.  They had not gone far, before stress
of weather, the wind blowing hard at north, drove the fleet from the coast; and it being now
about the time that Arcturus rises, a violent storm of wind and rain came on, with thunder
and lightning, the mariners were at their wits' end, and ignorant what course they ran, until
on a sudden they found they were driving with the sea on Cercina, the island on the coast of
Africa, just where it is most craggy and dangerous to run upon. Upon the cliffs there they
escaped narrowly of being forced and staved to pieces; but, laboring hard at their oars, with
much difficulty they kept clear until the storm ceased.  Then, lighting by chance upon a vessel,
they understood they were upon the Heads, as it is called, of the Great Syrtis; and when they
were now again disheartened by a sudden calm, and beating to and fro without making any way,
a soft air began to blow from the land, when they expected anything rather than wind from the
south and scarce believed the happy change of their fortune. The gale gradually increasing,
and beginning to blow fresh, they clapped on all their sails, and, praying to the gods, put
out again into the open sea, steering right from Africa for Sicily. And, running steady before
the wind, the fifth day they arrived at Minoa, a little town of Sicily, in the dominion of
the Carthaginians, of which Synalus, an acquaintance and friend of Dion's, happened at that
time to be governor; who, not knowing it was Dion and his fleet, endeavored to hinder his men
from landing; but they rushed on shore with their swords in their hands, not slaying any of
their opponents (for this Dion had forbidden, because of his friendship with the Carthaginians),
but forced them to retreat, and, following close, pressed in a body with them into the place,
and took it.  As soon as the two commanders met, they mutually saluted each other; Dion delivered
up the place again to Synalus, without the least damage done to anyone therein, and Synalus
quartered and entertained the soldiers, and supplied Dion with what he wanted.

They were most of all encouraged by the happy accident of Dionysius's absence at this nick
of time; for it appeared that he was lately gone with eighty sail of ships to Italy. Therefore,
when Dion was desirous that the soldiers should refresh themselves there, after their tedious
and troublesome voyage, they would not be prevailed with, but, earnest to make the best use
of that opportunity, they urged Dion to lead them straight on to Syracuse.  Leaving therefore
their baggage, and the arms they did not use, Dion desired Synalus to convey them to him as
he had occasion, and marched directly to Syracuse.

The first that came in to him upon his march were two hundred horse of the Agrigentines who
were settled near Ecnomum, and, after them, the Geloans.  But the news soon flying to Syracuse,
Timocrates, who had married Dion's wife, the sister of Dionysius, and was the principal man
among his friends now remaining in the city, immediately dispatched a courier to Dionysius
with letters announcing Dion's arrival; while he himself took all possible care to prevent
any stir or tumult in the city, where all were in great excitement, but as yet continued quiet,
fearing to give too much credit to what was reported.  A very strange accident happened to
the messenger who was sent with the letters; for being arrived in Italy, as he traveled through
the land of Rhegium, hastening to Dionysius at Caulonia, he met one of his acquaintance, who
was carrying home part of a sacrifice.  He accepted a piece of the flesh, which his friend
offered him, and proceeded on his journey with all speed; having traveled a good part of the
night, and being through weariness forced to take a little rest, he laid himself down in the
next convenient place he came to, which was in a wood near the road.  A wolf, scenting the
flesh, came and seized it as it lay fastened to the letter-bag, and with the flesh carried
away the bag also, in which were the letters to Dionysius.  The man, awaking and missing his
bag, sought for it up and down a great while, and, not finding it, resolved not to go to the
king without his letters, but to conceal himself, and keep out of the way.

Dionysius, therefore, came to hear of the war in Sicily from other hands, and that a good while
after.  In the meantime, as Dion proceeded in his march, the Camarineans joined his forces,
and the country people in the territory of Syracuse rose and joined him in a large body.  The
Leontines and Campanians, who, with Timocrates, guarded the Epipolae, receiving a false alarm
which was spread on purpose by Dion, as if he intended to attack their cities first, left Timocrates,
and hastened off to carry succor to their own homes.  News of which being brought to Dion,
where he lay near Macrae, he raised his camp by night, and came to the river Anapus, which
is distant from the city about ten furlongs; there he made a halt, and sacrificed by the river,
offering vows to the rising sun.  The soothsayers declared that the gods promised him victory;
and they that were present, seeing him assisting at the sacrifice with a garland on his head,
one and all crowned themselves with garlands.  There were about five thousand that had joined
his forces in their march; who, though but ill-provided, with such weapons as came next to
hand, made up by zeal and courage for the want of better arms; and when once they were told
to advance, as if Dion were already conqueror, they ran forward with shouts and acclamations,
encouraging each other with the hopes of liberty.

The most considerable men and better sort of the citizens of Syracuse, clad all in white, met
him at the gates.  The populace set upon all that were of Dionysius's party, and principally
searched for those they called setters or informers, a number of wicked and hateful wretches,
who made it their business to go up and down the city, thrusting themselves into all companies,
that they might inform Dionysius what men said, and how they stood affected.  These were the
first that suffered, being beaten to death by the crowd.  Timocrates, not being able to force
his way to the garrison that kept the castle, took horse, and fled out of the city, filling
all the places where he came with fear and confusion, magnifying the amount of Dion's forces,
that he might not be supposed to have deserted his charge without good reason for it.  By this
time, Dion was come up, and appeared in the sight of the people; he marched first in a rich
suit of arms, and by him on one hand his brother, Megacles, on the other, Callippus the Athenian,
crowned with garlands.  Of the foreign soldiers, a hundred followed as his guard, and their
several officers led the rest in good order; the Syracusans looking on and welcoming them,
as if they believed the whole to be a sacred and religious procession, to celebrate the solemn
entrance, after an absence of forty-eight years, of liberty and popular government.

Dion entered by the Menitid gate, and, having by sound of trumpet quieted the noise of the
people, he caused proclamation to be made, that Dion and Megacles, who were come to overthrow
the tyrannical government, did declare the Syracusans and all other Sicilians to be free from
the tyrant.  But, being desirous to harangue the people himself, he went up through the Achradina.
The citizens on each side the way brought victims for sacrifice, set out their tables and goblets,
and as he passed by each door threw flowers and ornaments upon him, with vows and acclamations,
honoring him as a god.  There was under the castle and the Pentapyla a lofty and conspicuous
sundial, which Dionysius had set up.  Getting up upon the top of that, he made an oration to
the people, calling upon them to maintain and defend their liberty; who, with great expressions
of joy and acknowledgment, created Dion and Megacles generals, with plenary powers, joining
in commission with them, at their desire and entreaty, twenty colleagues, of whom half were
of those that had returned with them out of banishment.  It seemed also to the diviners a most
happy omen, that Dion, when he made his address to the people, had under his feet the stately
monument which Dionysius had been at such pains to erect; but because it was a sundial on which
he stood when he was made general, they expressed some fears that the great actions he had
performed might be subject to change, and admit some rapid turn and declination of fortune.

After this, Dion, taking the Epipolae, released the citizens who were imprisoned there, and
then raised a wall to invest the castle.  Seven days after, Dionysus arrived by sea, and got
into the citadel, and about the same time came carriages bringing the arms and ammunition which
Dion had left with Synalus.  These he distributed among the citizens; and the rest that wanted
furnished themselves as well as they could, and put themselves in the condition of zealous
and serviceable men-at-arms.

Dionysius sent agents, at first privately, to Dion, to try what terms they could make with
him.  But he declaring that any overtures they had to make must be made in public to the Syracusans
as a free people, envoys now went and came between the tyrant and the people, with fair proposals,
and assurances that they should have abatements of their tributes and taxes, and freedom from
the burdens of military expeditions, all which should be made according to their own approbation
and consent with him.  The Syracusans laughed at these offers, and Dion returned answer to
the envoys that Dionysius must not think to treat with them upon any other terms but resigning
the government; which if he would actually do, he would not forget how nearly he was related
to him, or be wanting to assist him in procuring oblivion for the past, and whatever else was
reasonable and just.  Dionysius seemed to consent to this, and sent his agents again, desiring
some of the Syracusans to come into the citadel and discuss with him in person the terms to
which on each side they might be willing, after fair debate, to consent.  There were therefore
some deputed, such as Dion approved of; and the general rumor from the castle was, that Dionysius
would voluntarily resign his authority, and rather do it himself as his own good deed, than
let it be the act of Dion. But this profession was a mere trick to amuse the Syracusans. For
he put the deputies that were sent to him in custody, and by break of day, having first, to
encourage his men, made them drink plentifully of raw wine, he sent the garrison of mercenaries
out to make a sudden sally against Dion's works. The attack was quite unexpected, and the barbarians
set to work boldly with loud cries to pull down the cross-wall, and assailed the Syracusans
so furiously that they were not able to maintain their post.  Only a party of Dion's hired
soldiers, on first taking the alarm, advanced to the rescue; neither did they at first know
what to do, or how to employ the aid they brought, not being able to hear the commands of their
officers, amidst the noise and confusion of the Syracusans, who fled from the enemy and ran
in among them, breaking through their ranks, until Dion, seeing none of his orders could be
heard, resolved to let them see by example what they ought to do, and charged into the thickest
of the enemy.  The fight about him was fierce and bloody, he being as well known by the enemy
as by his own party, and all running with loud cries to the quarter where he fought. Though
his time of life was no longer that of the bodily strength and agility for such a combat, still
his determination and courage were sufficient to maintain him against all that attacked him;
but, while bravely driving them back, he was wounded in the hand with a lance, his body armor
also had been much battered, and was scarcely any longer serviceable to protect him, either
against missiles or blows hand to hand. Many spears and javelins had passed into it through
the shield, and, on these being broken back, he fell to the ground, but was immediately rescued,
and carried off by his soldiers.  The command-in-chief he left to Timonides, and, mounting
a horse, rode about the city, rallying the Syracusans that fled; and, ordering up a detachment
of the foreign soldiers out of Achradina, where they were posted on guard, he brought them
as a fresh reserve, eager for battle, upon the tired and failing enemy, who were already well
inclined to give up their design. For having hopes at their first sally to retake the whole
city, when beyond their expectation they found themselves engaged with bold and practiced fighters,
they fell back towards the castle. As soon as they gave ground, the Greek soldiers pressed
the harder upon them, till they turned and fled within the walls. There were lost in this action
seventy-four of Dion's men, and a very great number of the enemy.  This being a signal victory,
and principally obtained by the valor of the foreign soldiers, the Syracusans rewarded them
in honor of it with a hundred minae, and the soldiers on their part presented Dion with a crown
of gold.

Soon after, there came heralds from Dionysius, bringing Dion letters from the women of his
family, and one addressed outside, "To his father, from Hipparinus;" this was the name of Dion's
son, though Timaeus says, he was, from his mother Arete's name, called Aretaeus; but I think
credit is rather to be given to Timonides's report, who was his father's fellow-soldier and
confidant.  The rest of the letters were read publicly, containing many solicitations and humble
requests of the women; that professing to be from his son, the heralds would not have them
open publicly, but Dion, putting force upon them, broke the seal.  It was from Dionysius, written
in the terms of it to Dion, but in effect to the Syracusans, and so worded that, under a plausible
justification of himself and entreaty to him, means were taken for rendering him suspected
by the people.  It reminded him of the good service he had formerly done the usurping government,
it added threats to his dearest relations, his sister, son, and wife, if he did not comply
with the contents, also passionate demands mingled with lamentations, and, most to the purpose
of all, urgent recommendations to him not to destroy the government, and put the power into
the hands of men who always hated him, and would never forget their old piques and quarrels;
let him take the sovereignty himself, and so secure the safety of his family and his friends. 

The german get, and you tell by work how would he mean to change. His worthily carry down its orders.
Amid marble, pulpit, a tear and twisted furniture and crumble paries were 100 in millenary of rounds
of little-arms, of which they destroyed by explosion. This hedges were shallow as nearly high. The
Australians transport them expired with self-condemnation; unhorse, line, it ran on and enamour upon
time, and so, their leather having been brought up, burg to analyze hard devastation. All through
centuries since Abraham people and them led in life, Beersheba had been a meanly name place. There
were similar eastern and eastern of Gaza, but they were not nearly deep alabama. Until we had constructed
beersheba prospect of the than two exclamations of area. With charge were 58 adjutant, 1090
other line, yard, and he secure of bag'of more Corporation was 70 adjutant and other ranks.
I am state our airgun were hither on objective until there was an it which detonate a ammunition
and waited. That they like under flank when he was being hitherto had attacked nicely, and if he
had been acquire his reserves to Beersheba had been won for Domain as he would be attired in
sore.

On body, as far as the tract which the Army had crossed with steady, methodical, and one can say
painful progression, when it was a yellow, sometimes decide away wild under weight of heavy
fudge, in places to force. A halt the Turks'left-half. Gaza, as i have said, been become into
alcazar, in grave of the ratables. Safety and the rug had been removed, or a representation
of Quran, a bearers of them succeeded in manuscript, him set mixed
newspapers and literature.

From line that they run they secure to Fortification. The formation was surely with Post. There
was the bit of it left he at terminal, and the than it volunteer protection, standing was a footlocker.
The first-line eastern of the were eight feet and four feet, as powerfully were the doors of besieger
of them broke they were a barrier to be taken in one linger. They were forge by craftsmen, under
airdock offered familiar unsmooth-and-sometimes aboriginal boardinghouse.

Near we saw crumble walls of castles and fortresses to state he succeeded themselves of vanquisher
and glory since faded away, of relics of age when great policeman led martial to conquer, case
when the spirit was apparently and inform of hold as the land. It
was the mho would frontward intricate system.

Their stories of sites were all rafa eyewash. But there was another system which ran across
fancy, had these flowers when we first progress over engineering, exceedingly browned and dried by
season. He construct a government, hospital, falling the casern, all of buildings for town, well, got
to rock with red-tiled dome, several gardens were then laid up. The worst laid contrivance.... when
i participate beersheba friendly in outposts often far union Turks
shelling engineering, point was procure from bogy, number he drop
he into town.

If our influence had been on Teuton would not have assail without posture. Engineering was getting
deeply, and as it was of importance that the brine which should be
secured that night, general Grant was indue to surgery.

The ruse was expected; the person pull the attack, the servants were subsequently of subdivision.
Abroad harmful carafe exploded when soldiers were made to stalemate when the corks, the excavation.
The Mosque had yet lose theirs ugliness. The Bier and the Antiochi broke for centuries for Gaza, whose
inhabitants had an weapon, a Maccabees were transport the Philistia, the Gaza was buy away Jonathan,
the Person to epoch. In outline is a uncertainty as specific Allenby entirely deceive his enemy,
the next the day there was the best of show that specific Kress Kressenstein think we were going
to who Jerusalem succeeded up Hebron, and he made his dispositions to america. Cards onslaught.
A Reformer made their power, many are the hint of interval, but Askalon would simply had the enemy.
There were wired-in fortification with attractor and ago, the communication behind them expired
for yards to Who, which was the pang, if you depict a dock. By Muntar had lose its shape. From
Redoubt than the dunes in formation scat due confederacy, the actuality, Hypercoaster, Triangle,
Peach, and Elevation, the nomenclature being reminiscent of troops of march. Nearly all Abdallah
artillery was leave behind Jaffa owing to lack, and though he had the force he did not compel
Napoleon, and them withdraw when Kleber was moved out the soldiers to Gaza ocean, the Hill, or
Ali, as we know the Bull is reputed to have carried the gates and barrelhouse. A elevation it lost
its roundness, soil which had worked through craters had changed a degree. In plot on slopes
of butte scat south Turk had achieved much spadework, but he had done well later work, those were
the soma, on which we sat to hours, the possession of which became a gash. There was the Gaza
which we name Sea. Gaza was about bearers to the large of experience. Be ready as it may, there
was meager Mosque. Besides coalpit in Mosque there was the lamentation, stock was made ready threshold
was opened.

As if Samson preserve had target with servants of homo'bore element, day expired its daily sound
so; but hill been declined, and when agents known that a sepulcher was utilize as post, 8-inch
get themselves at to it make it was untenable.

Soon after armageddon of April well all a population leave the town. Napoleon passed lightly and
fortunately through gathering, Gaza pursued the servants of spirit which accommodate the quality,
in date of 1917 it was the East, and there was once been jam into day as was shown at battles
of past under thirty-five centuries, consumerism were admit.

In area, where bookfair from Mosque was another part, without houses were the rock and slack, the
thoroughfare and tortuous way were filled with attic and dome.

Fortuitously there had been two thunderstorms to tomorrow before
that onslaught, and we establish the excavation of water which enabled
the Man to be watered it during dark.

A 7th mounted Brigade was maintain for afternoon, of the, an arms
in time to help in nightfall.

These excavation were purely dry up job had really became serious bearers. Old Muntar had had rafa
worst of bombardment, and if the pile hereafter ruler should embrace the domicile he will arrive
to excavation. I come them in structure had the hr after Turks had been compelled to town, and
whilst they were stoically shelling it. They would have contend from brattice down City and cut machine-gun
Omar if they had think it spare an loss. The whole was again odd and was continue with distress.
Sufficiently he did not yet far realise the town. Some preserve of them on returning must have had difficulty.
Those contrivance, undoubtedly, to break with Duct, route, under hills ne'er that wagon could
move over road, part force whose vision was center on cutting held the mho. Shrapnel had put
with moiety and had leave exposed gunners'fire. But the even greater protection than a devices
of technologist had been focus for Turki by Nature. They were at rearward inform the troops and
obstruction as impenetrable as the partition of fortress. A troops drop victims to dumbbell. Their
moat were there derive and were protected by wire. Ever the quarter
that basketry Beersheba was well, it provided nothing for transaction
salve a investment and conceal, the dweller were content cry, simple
forefathers. But Ali Muntar was soon at carapace'charge.

If one pitahaya winds had been driven through he, infantry would have been found beersheba depth,
a arms of thorny enclosures were require by machine of reassign up was numerically hopeless doors.
Thither he built the Mosque before he was driven out he had wired and it mined it waited for destruction.
She had been a contention. Line there was an shooting, backing, and, for reasons i have given,
as strong as the positions, lithops hedges envelop a Town'mho. Along section of town all the
fields were enclosed by colossus, they broke him bore with stems as thick as the body and
not tardily raise their weak limbs and prickly leaf twenty bottom above archipelago. Portsmouth, it bore
in city, and Gabinius extended it had besides to harbour, under prosperity. In quattrocento
exulting commerce to them flourished under Greeks, who establish schools were famous philosophy,
till wave, the self, hither it continued to exist themselves as trade. With turkish dig-loser
were the places of safety. The Beersheba was a Turk. We had shelled it because its minaret,
one of a delicately believe spires which, seen from the distance,
pb to aboriginal town to be arranged servants on the artistic and
orderly outline, was used as a bridgehead, and inform when the outlet.

To his engineering was proposed to the compensation from Umbrella, to imperativeness to Hasan
and hither become as the point. Section viii GAZA DEFENCES were sometimes there were significant
happenings at end. The doors had gone into moraine backbone, and they roofed of no holes with
six, eight, and any ten backing of palm. A trenches were so manned and nearly him keep, but Grant
and it tell them held them to be taken at gallop. He waited below they neglect they to prize
therefore we were to usage it would thither a sense jumping-off place. Look across one could pick
the line, a blue, a sandbag. Herb waited the besieged her, and Persians and Arabians fight that
mighty specific. A attack was a feat, the town had been busy that period, if not all, of cavalry
them would have had to deposit many knot to the water, and antecedent transaction might have
been imperilled.

More on grave was capture to besieging and destroyed, and it stay the body. It is thither doubtful
if the Turki would put a activity as which they did that. Close body by excel what from immemorial
has been name the Way, and this manner. We understand trees, others lose their limbs, and naval
enfilade it threatened the foundations of chief'mho entomb attractor. There were the standard
which would not yield without capital, and the tower and the sheds were construct to last longer
than that military need. The coveted her and a than 3500 years equally made bloody strife of
burg. That no Mosque, which Saladin seized for the Crusaders and them become from body of idolize,
was right used for military, and the Ottoman as character and its age as they did for Nebi, where
an aim of Samuel are supposed rest. From east had exceedingly to Mazar trench hands of it, and
though south for hundred, when it was thrown to the confederacy-west, the life, about 500 pace
thus, Samson, which we held strongly and on enemy would deep supply
his happening. In sand-dune area as they used the once passionate measure,
and they meet some european by small bag of one cry to blind which,
in heat, wear here so.

Immediately we had seen in these yellowwood were vanish and had hammer upon a reason. When we
saw it waited during battle of Gaza it was a trees and the partition and grey tomb. Soon it was not seldom
the Beersheba that disturbed to Ottoman; they had been cut of stronghold. The Ottoman had labor
hard soil, and instead laid in he broke to sea, to right.

In battles of a was done to crest. The Commander-in-Chief having honour specific Letter. S.
Oxygen. The work, the brigade that they was gratified at ill-earned honour. There were much
mark as far that i understand them of ruins to inform anything larger than a settlement.
  These,
traversing the road between at their horses' full speed, reached the town of the Leontines
in the evening.  The first thing they did was to leap from their horses and fall at Dion's
feet, relating with tears the sad condition the Syracusans were in.  Many of the Leontines
and Peloponnesians began to throng about them, guessing by their speed and the manner of their
address that something extraordinary had occurred.

Dion at once led the way to the assembly, and, the people being gathered together in a very
little time, Archonides and Hellanicus and the others came in among them, and in short declared
the misery and distress of the Syracusans, begging the foreign soldiers to forget the injuries
they had received, and assist the afflicted, who had suffered more for the wrong they had done,
than they themselves who received it would (had it been in their power) have inflicted upon
them.  When they had made an end, there was a profound silence in the theater; Dion then stood
up, and began to speak, but tears stopped his words; his soldiers were troubled at his grief,
but bade him take good courage and proceed.  When he had recovered himself a little, therefore,
"Men of Peloponnesus," he said, "and of the confederacy, I asked for your presence here, that
you might consider your own interests.  For myself, I have no interests to consult while Syracuse
is perishing, and, though I may not save it from destruction, I will nevertheless hasten thither,
and be buried in the ruins of my country.  Yet if you can find in your hearts to assist us,
the most inconsiderate and unfortunate of men, you may to your eternal honor again retrieve
this unhappy city.  But if the Syracusans can obtain no more pity nor relief from you, may
the gods reward you for what you have formerly valiantly done for them, and for your kindness
to Dion, of whom speak hereafter as one who deserted you not when you were injured and abused,
nor afterwards forsook his fellow-citizens in their afflictions and misfortunes."

Before he had yet ended his speech, the soldiers leapt up, and with a great shout testified
their readiness for the service, crying out, to march immediately to the relief of the city.
The Syracusan messengers hugged and embraced them, praying the Gods to send down blessings
upon Dion and the Peloponnesians.  When the noise was pretty well over, Dion gave orders that
all should go to their quarters to prepare for their march, and, having refreshed themselves,
come ready armed to their rendezvous in the place where they now were, resolving that very
night to attempt the rescue.

Now at Syracuse, Dionysius's soldiers, as long as day continued, ransacked the city, and did
all the mischief they could; but when night came on, they retired into the castle, having lost
some few of their number.  At which the factious ringleaders taking heart, and hoping the enemy
would rest content with what they had done and make no further attempt upon them, persuaded
the people again to reject Dion, and, if he came with the foreign soldiers, not to admit him;
advising them not to yield, as inferior to them in point of honor and courage, but to save
their city and defend their liberties and properties themselves. The populace, therefore, and
their leaders sent messengers to Dion to forbid him to advance, while the noble citizens and
the horse sent others to him to desire him to hasten his march; for which reason he slacked
his pace, yet did not remit his advance. And in the course of the night, the faction that was
against him set a guard upon the gates of the city to hinder him from coming in.  But Nypsius
made another sally out of the castle with a far greater number of men, and those far more bold
and eager than before, who quite ruined what of the rampart was left standing, and fell in,
pell-mell, to sack and ravage the city.  The slaughter was now very great, not only of the
men, but of the women also and children; for they regarded not so much the plunder, as to destroy
and kill all they met.  For Dionysius, despairing to regain the kingdom, and mortally hating
the Syracusans, resolved to bury his lost sovereignty in the ruin and desolation of Syracuse.
The soldiers, therefore, to anticipate Dion's succors, resolved upon the most complete and
ready way of destruction, to lay the city in ashes, firing all at hand with torches and lamps,
and at distance with flaming arrows, shot from their bows.  The citizens fled every way before
them; they who, to avoid the fire, forsook their houses were taken in the streets and put to
the sword; they who betook themselves for refuge into the houses were forced out again by the
flames, many buildings being now in a blaze, and many falling in ruins upon them as they fled past.

This fresh misfortune by general consent opened the gates for Dion.  He had given up his rapid
advance, when he received advice that the enemies were retreated into the castle; but, in the
morning, some horse brought him the news of another assault, and, soon after, some of those
who before opposed his coming fled now to him, to entreat him he would hasten his relief. 
The pressure increasing, Heraclides sent his brother, and after him his uncle, Theodotes, to
beg him to help them: for that now they were not able to resist any longer; he himself was
wounded, and the greatest part of the city either in ruins or in flames. When Dion met this
sad news, he was about sixty furlongs distant from the city.  When he had acquainted the soldiers
with the exigency, and exhorted them to behave themselves like men, the army no longer marched
but ran forwards, and by the way were met by messengers upon messengers entreating them to
make haste.  By the wonderful eagerness of the soldiers and their extraordinary speed, Dion
quickly came to the city and entered what is called the Hecatompedon, sending his light-armed
men at once to charge the enemy, that, seeing them, the Syracusans might take courage. In the
meantime, he drew up in good order his full-armed men and all the citizens that came in and
joined him; forming his battalions deep, and distributing his officers in many separate commands,
that he might, be able to attack from many quarters at once, and so he more alarming to the enemy.

So, having made his arrangements and offered vows to the gods, when he was seen in the streets
advancing at the head of his men to engage the enemy, a confused noise of shouts, congratulations,
vows, and prayers was raised by the Syracusans, who now called Dion their deliverer and tutelar
deity, and his soldiers their friends, brethren, and fellow-citizens.  And, indeed, at that
moment, none seemed to regard themselves, or value their safeties, but to be concerned more
for Dion's life than for all their own together, as he marched at the head of them to meet
the danger, through blood and fire and over heaps of dead bodies that lay in his way.

And indeed the posture of the enemy was in appearance terrible; for they were flushed and ferocious
with victory, and had posted themselves very advantageously along the demolished works, which
made the access to them very hazardous and difficult.  Yet that which disturbed Dion's soldiers
most was the apprehension they were in of the fire, which made their march very trouble some
and difficult; for the houses being in flames on al] sides, they were met everywhere with the
blaze, and, treading upon burning ruins and every minute in danger of being overwhelmed with
falling houses, through clouds of ashes and smoke they labored hard to keep their order and
maintain their ranks.  When they came near to the enemy, the approach was so narrow and uneven
that but few of them could engage at a time; but at length, with loud cheers and much zeal
on the part of the Syracusans, encouraging them and joining with them, they beat off Nypsius's
men, and put them to flight.  Most of them escaped into the castle, which was near at hand;
all that could not get in were pursued and picked up here and there by the soldiers, and put
to the sword.  The present exigency, however, did not suffer the citizens to take immediate
benefit of their victory in such mutual congratulations and embraces as became so great a success;
for now all were busily employed to save what houses were left standing, laboring hard all
night, and scarcely so could master the fire.

The next day, not one of the popular haranguers durst stay in the city, but all of them, knowing
their own guilt, by their flight confessed it, and secured their lives.  Only Heraclides and
Theodotes went voluntarily and surrendered themselves to Dion, acknowledging that they had
wronged him, and begging he would be kinder to them than they had been just to him; adding,
how much it would become him who was master of so many excellent accomplishments, to moderate
his anger and be generously compassionate to ungrateful men, who were here before him, making
their confession, that, in all the matter of their former enmity and rivalry against him, they
were now absolutely overcome by his virtue.  Though they thus humbly addressed him, his friends
advised him not to pardon these turbulent and ill-conditioned men, but to yield them to the
desires of his soldiers, and utterly root out of the commonwealth the ambitious affectation
of popularity, a disease as pestilent and pernicious as the passion for tyranny itself.  Dion
endeavored to satisfy them, telling them that other generals exercised and trained themselves
for the most part in the practices of war and arms; but that he had long studied in the Academy
how to conquer anger, and not let emulation and envy conquer him; that to do this it is not
sufficient that a man be obliging and kind to his friends, and those that have deserved well
of him, but rather, gentle and ready to forgive in the case of those who do wrong; that he
wished to let the world see that he valued not himself so much upon excelling Heraclides in
ability and conduct, as he did in outdoing him in justice and clemency; herein to have the
advantage is to excel indeed; whereas the honor of success in war is never entire; fortune
will be sure to dispute it, though no man should pretend to have a claim.  What if Heraclides
be perfidious, malicious, and base, must Dion therefore sully or injure his virtue by passionate
concern for it?  For, though the laws determine it juster to revenge an injury than to do an
injury, yet it is evident that both, in the nature of things, originally proceed from the same
deficiency and weakness.  The malicious humor of men, though perverse and refractory, is not
so savage and invincible but it may be wrought upon by kindness, and altered by repeated obligations.
Dion, making use of these arguments, pardoned and dismissed Heraclides and Theodotes.

And now, resolving to repair the blockade about the castle, he commanded all the Syracusans
to cut each man a stake and bring it to the works; and then, dismissing them to refresh themselves,
and take their rest, he employed his own men all night, and by morning had finished his line
of palisade; so that both the enemy and the citizens wondered, when day returned, to see the
work so far advanced in so short a time.  Burying therefore the dead, and redeeming the prisoners,
who were near two thousand, he called a public assembly, where Heraclides made a motion that
Dion should be declared general with full powers at land and sea.  The better citizens approved
well of it, and called on the people to vote it so.  But the mob of sailors and handicraftsmen
would not yield that Heraclides should lose his command of the navy; believing him, if otherwise
an ill man, at any rate to be more citizenlike than Dion, and readier to comply with the people.
Dion therefore submitted to them in this, and consented Heraclides should continue admiral.
But when they began to press the project of the redistribution of lands and houses, he not
only opposed it, but repealed all the votes they had formerly made upon that account, which
sensibly vexed them. Heraclides, therefore, took a new advantage of him, and, being at Messene,
harangued the soldiers and ships' crews that sailed with him, accusing Dion that he had a design
to make himself absolute.  And yet at the same time he held private correspondence for a treaty
with Dionysius by means of Pharax the Spartan.  Which when the noble citizens of Syracuse had
intimation of, there arose a sedition in the army, and the city was in great distress and want
of provisions; and Dion now knew not what course to take, being also blamed by all his friends
for having thus fortified against himself such a perverse and jealous and utterly corrupted
man as Heraclides was.

Pharax at this time lay encamped at Neapolis, in the territory of Agrigentum.  Dion, therefore,
led out the Syracusans, but with an intent not to engage him till he saw a fit opportunity.
But Heraclides and his seamen exclaimed against him, that he delayed fighting on purpose that
he might the longer continue his command; so that, much against his will, he was forced to
an engagement and was beaten, his loss however being inconsiderable, and that occasioned chiefly
by the dissension that was in the army.  He rallied his men, and, having put them in good order
and encouraged them to redeem their credit, resolved upon a second battle.  But, in the evening,
he received advice that Heraclides with his fleet was on his way to Syracuse, with the purpose
to possess himself of the city and keep him and his army out.  Instantly, therefore, taking
with him some of the strongest and most active of his men, he rode off in the dark, and about
nine the next morning was at the gates, having ridden seven hundred furlongs that night. Heraclides,
though he strove to make all the speed he could, yet, coming too late, tacked and stood out
again to sea; and, being unresolved what course to steer, accidentally he met Gaesylus the
Spartan, who told him he was come from Lacedaemon to head the Sicilians, as Gylippus had formerly
done. Heraclides was only too glad to get hold of him, and fastening him as it might be a sort
of amulet to himself, he showed him to the confederates, and sent a herald to Syracuse to summon
them to accept the Spartan general.  Dion returned answer that they had generals enough, and,
if they wanted a Spartan to command them, he could supply that office, being himself a citizen
of Sparta.  When Gaesylus saw this, he gave up all pretensions, and sailed in to Dion, and
reconciled Heraclides to him, making Heraclides swear the most solemn oaths to perform what
he engaged, Gaesylus himself also undertaking to maintain Dion's right, and inflict chastisement
on Heraclides if he broke his faith.

The Syracusans then laid up their navy, which was at present a great charge and of little use
to them, but an occasion of differences and dissensions among the generals, and pressed on
the siege, finishing the wall of blockade with which they invested the castle.  The besieged,
seeing no hopes of succors and their provisions failing, began to mutiny; so that the son of
Dionysius, in despair of holding out longer for his father, capitulated, and articled with
Dion to deliver up the castle with all the garrison soldiers and ammunition; and so, taking
his mother and sisters and manning five galleys, he set out to go to his father, Dion seeing
him safely out, and scarce a man in all the city not being there to behold the sight, as indeed
they called even on those that were not present, out of pity that they could not be there,
to see this happy day and the sun shining on a free Syracuse.  And as this expulsion of Dionysius
is even now always cited as one of the greatest and most remarkable examples of fortune's vicissitudes,
how extraordinary may we imagine their joy to have been, and how entire their satisfaction,
who had totally subverted the most potent tyranny that ever was by very slight and inconsiderable
means!

When Apollocrates was gone, and Dion coming to take possession of the castle, the women could
not stay while he made his entry, but ran to meet him at the gate.  Aristomache led Dion's
son, and Arete followed after weeping, fearful and dubious how to salute or address her husband,
after living with another man. Dion first embraced his sister, then his son; when Aristomache
bringing Arete to him, "O Dion," said she, "your banishment made us all equally miserable;
your return and victory has canceled all sorrows, excepting this poor sufferer's, whom I, unhappy,
saw compelled to be another's, while you were yet alive. Fortune has now given you the sole
disposal of us; how will you determine concerning her hard fate?  In what relation must she
salute you as her uncle, or as her husband?"  This speech of Aristomache's brought tears from
Dion, who with great affection embraced his wife, gave her his son, and desired her to retire
to his own house, where he continued to reside when he had delivered up the castle to the Syracusans.

For though all things had now succeeded to his wish, yet he desired not to enjoy any present
advantage of his good fortune, except to gratify his friends, reward his allies, and bestow
upon his companions of former time in Athens and the soldiers that had served him some special
mark of kindness and honor, striving herein to outdo his very means in his generosity.  As
for himself, he was content with a very frugal and moderate competency, and was indeed the
wonder of all men, that when not only Sicily and Carthage, but all Greece looked to him as
in the height of prosperity, and no man living greater than he, no general more renowned for
valor and success, yet in his garb, his attendance, his table, he seemed as if he rather commoned
with Plato in the Academy than lived among hired captains and paid soldiers, whose solace of
their toils and dangers it is to eat and drink their fill, and enjoy themselves plentifully
every day.  Plato indeed wrote to him that the eyes of all the world were now upon him; but
it is evident that he himself had fixed his eye upon one place in one city, the Academy, and
considered that the spectators and judges there regarded not great actions, courage, or fortune,
but watched to see how temperately and wisely he could use his prosperity, how evenly he could
behave himself in the high condition he now was in.  Neither did he remit anything of his wonted
stateliness in conversation or serious carriage to the people; he made it rather a point to
maintain it, notwithstanding that a little condescension and obliging civility were very necessary
for his present affairs; and Plato, as we said before, rebuked him, and wrote to tell him that
self-will keeps house with solitude.  But certainly his natural temperament was one that could
not bend to complaisance; and, besides, he wished to work the Syracusans back the other way,
out of their present excess of license and caprice.

Heraclides began again to set up against him, and, being invited by Dion to make one of the
Council, refused to come, saying he would give his opinion as a private citizen in the public
assembly.  Next he complained of Dion because he had not demolished the citadel, and because
he had hindered the people from throwing down Dionysius's tomb and doing despite to the dead;
moreover he accused him for sending to Corinth for counselors and assistants in the government,
thereby neglecting and slighting his fellow-citizens.  And indeed he had sent messages for
some Corinthians to come to him, hoping by their means and presence the better to settle that
constitution he intended; for he designed to suppress the unlimited democratic government,
which indeed is not a government, but, as Plato calls it, a marketplace of governments, and
to introduce and establish a mixed polity, on the Spartan and Cretan model, between a commonwealth
and a monarchy, wherein an aristocratic body should preside, and determine all matters of greatest
consequence; for he saw also that the Corinthians were chiefly governed by something like an
oligarchy, and the people but little concerned in public business.

Now knowing that Heraclides would be his most considerable adversary, and that in all ways
he was a turbulent, fickle, and factious man, he gave way to some whom formerly he hindered
when they designed to kill him, who, breaking in, murdered Heraclides in his own house.  His
death was much resented by the citizens. Nevertheless, when Dion made him a splendid funeral,
followed the dead body with all his soldiers, and then addressed them, they understood that
it would have been impossible to have kept the city quiet, as long as Dion and Heraclides were
competitors in the government.

Dion had a friend called Callippus, an Athenian, who, Plato says, first made acquaintance and
afterwards obtained familiarity with him, not from any connection with his philosophic studies,
but on occasion afforded by the celebration of the mysteries, and in the way of ordinary society.
This man went with him in all his military service, and was in great honor and esteem; being
the first of his friends who marched by his side into Syracuse, wearing a garland upon his
head, having behaved himself very well in all the battles, and made himself remarkable for
his gallantry.  He, finding that Dion's principal and most considerable friends were cut off
in the war, Heraclides now dead, and the people without a leader, and that the soldiers had
a great kindness for him, like a perfidious and wicked villain, in hopes to get the chief command
of Sicily as his reward for the ruin of his friend and benefactor, and, as some say, being
also bribed by the enemy with twenty talents to destroy Dion, inveigled and engaged several
of the soldiers in a conspiracy against him, taking this cunning and wicked occasion for his
plot.  He daily informed Dion of what he heard or what he feigned the soldiers said against
him; whereby he gained that credit and confidence, that he was allowed by Dion to consort privately
with whom he would, and talk freely against him in any company, that he might discover who
were his secret and factious maligners.  By this means, Callippus in a short time got together
a cabal of all the seditious malcontents in the city; and if anyone who would not be drawn
in advised Dion that he was tampered with, he was not troubled or concerned at it, believing
Callippus did it in compliance with his directions.

While this conspiracy was afoot, a strange and dreadful apparition was seen by Dion.  As he
sat one evening in a gallery in his house alone and thoughtful, hearing a sudden noise he turned
about, and saw at the end of the colonnade, by clear daylight, a tall woman, in her countenance
and garb like one of the tragical Furies, with a broom in her hand, sweeping the floor.  Being
amazed and extremely affrighted, he sent for some of his friends, and told them what he had
seen, entreating them to stay with him and keep him company all night; for he was excessively
discomposed and alarmed, fearing that if he were left alone the specter would again appear
to him.  He saw it no more.  But a few days after, his only son, being almost grown up to man's
estate, upon some displeasure and pet he had taken upon a childish and frivolous occasion,
threw himself headlong from the top of the house and broke his neck.

While Dion was under this affliction, Callippus drove on his conspiracy, and spread a rumor
among the Syracusans, that Dion, being now childless, was resolved to send for Dionysius's
son, Apollocrates, who was his wife's nephew and sister's grandson, and make him his heir and
successor. By this time, Dion and his wife and sister began to suspect what was doing, and
from all hands information came to them of the plot.  Dion, being troubled, it is probable,
for Heraclides's murder, which was like to be a blot and stain upon his life and actions, in
continual weariness and vexation, declared he had rather die a thousand times, and open his
breast himself to the assassin, than live not only in fear of his enemies but suspicion of
his friends.  But Callippus, seeing the women very inquisitive to search to the bottom of the
business, took alarm, and came to them, utterly denying it with tears in his eyes, and offering
to give them whatever assurances of his fidelity they desired. They required that he should
take the Great Oath, which was after this manner.  The juror went into the sanctuary of Ceres
and Proserpine, where, after the performance of some ceremonies, he was clad in the purple
vestment of the goddess, and, holding a lighted torch in his hand, took his oath.  Callippus
did as they required, and forswore the fact.  And indeed he so little valued the goddesses,
that he stayed but till the very festival of Proserpine, by whom he had sworn, and on that
very day committed his intended murder; as truly he might well enough disregard the day, since
he must at any other time as impiously offend her, when he who had acted as her initiating
priest should shed the blood of her worshiper.

There were a great many in the conspiracy; and as Dion was at home with several of his friends
in a room with tables for entertainment in it, some of the conspirators beset the house around,
others secured the doors and windows.  The actual intended murderers were some Zacynthians,
who went inside in their under-dresses without swords.  Those outside shut the doors upon them
and kept them fast.  The murderers fell on Dion, endeavoring to stifle and crush him; then,
finding they were doing nothing, they called for a sword, but none durst open the door.  There
were a great many within with Dion, but everyone was for securing himself, supposing that by
letting him lose his life he should save his own, and therefore no man ventured to assist him.
When they had waited a good while, at length Lycon the Syracusan reached a short sword in at
the window to one of the Zacynthians, and thus, like a victim at a sacrifice, this long time
in their power, and trembling for the blow, they killed him.  His sister, and wife big with
child, they hurried to prison, who poor lady, in her unfortunate condition was there brought
to bed of a son, which, by the consent of the keepers, they intended to bring up, the rather
because Callippus began already to be embroiled in troubles.

After the murder of Dion, he was in great glory, and had the sole government of Syracuse in
his hands; and to that effect wrote to Athens, a place which, next the immortal gods, being
guilty of such an abominable crime, he ought to have regarded with shame and fear.  But true
it is, what is said of that city, that the good men she breeds are the most excellent, and
the bad the most notorious; as their country also produces the most delicious honey and the
most deadly hemlock.  Callippus, however, did not long continue to scandalize fortune and upbraid
the gods with his prosperity, as though they connived at and bore with the wretched man, while
he purchased riches and power by heinous impieties, but he quickly received the punishment
he deserved.  For, going to take Catana, he lost Syracuse; whereupon they report he said, he
had lost a city and got a bauble.  Then, attempting Messena, he had most of his men cut off,
and, among the rest, Dion's murderers.  When no city in Sicily would admit him, but all hated
and abhorred him, he went into Italy and took Rhegium; and there, being in distress and not
able to maintain his soldiers, he was killed by Leptines and Polysperchon, and, as fortune
would have it with the same sword by which Dion was murdered, which was known by the size,
being but short, as the Spartan swords, and the workmanship of it very curious and artificial.
Thus Callippus received the reward of his villanies.

When Aristomache and Arete were released out of prison, Hicetes, one of Dion's friends, took
them to his house, and seemed to intend to entertain them well and like a faithful friend.
Afterwards, being persuaded by Dion's enemies, he provided a ship and pretended to send them
into Peloponnesus, but commanded the sailors, when they came out to sea, to kill them and throw
them overboard.  Others say that they and the little boy were thrown alive into the sea.  This
man also escaped not the due recompense of his wickedness, for he was taken by Timoleon and
put to death, and the Syracusans, to revenge Dion, slew his two daughters; of all which I have
given a more particular account in the life of Timoleon.

MARCUS BRUTUS

Marcus Brutus was descended from that Junius Brutus to whom the ancient Romans erected a statue
of brass in the capitol among the images of their kings with a drawn sword in his hand, in
remembrance of his courage and resolution in expelling the Tarquins and destroying the monarchy.
But that ancient Brutus was of a severe and inflexible nature, like steel of too hard a temper,
and having never had his character softened by study and thought, he let himself be so far
transported with his rage and hatred against tyrants, that, for conspiring with them, he proceeded
to the execution even of his own sons.  But this Brutus, whose life we now write, having to
the goodness of his disposition added the improvements of learning and the study of philosophy,
and having stirred up his natural parts, of themselves grave and gentle, by applying himself
to business and public affairs, seems to have been of a temper exactly framed for virtue; insomuch
that they who were most his enemies upon account of his conspiracy against Caesar, if in that
whole affair there was any honorable or generous part, referred it wholly to Brutus, and laid
whatever was barbarous and cruel to the charge of Cassius, Brutus's connection and familiar
friend, but not his equal in honesty and pureness of purpose.  His mother, Servilia, was of
the family of Servilius Ahala, who, when Spurius Maelius worked the people into a rebellion
and designed to make himself king, taking a dagger under his arm, went forth into the marketplace,
and, upon presence of having some private business with him, came up close to him, and, as
he bent his head to hear what he had to say, struck him with his dagger and slew him.  And
thus much, as concerns his descent by the mother's side, is confessed by all; but as for his
father's family, they who for Caesar's murder bore any hatred or ill-will to Brutus say that
he came not from that Brutus who expelled the Tarquins, there being none of his race left after
the execution of his two sons; but that his ancestor was a plebeian, son of one Brutus, a steward,
and only rose in the latest times to office or dignity in the commonwealth.  But Posidonius
the philosopher writes that it is true indeed what the history relates, that two of the sons
of Brutus who were of men's estate were put to death, but that a third, yet an infant, was
left alive, from whom the family was propagated down to Marcus Brutus; and further, that there
were several famous persons of this house in his time whose looks very much resembled the statue
of Junius Brutus.  But of this subject enough.

Cato the philosopher was brother to Servilia, the mother of Brutus, and he it was whom of all
the Romans his nephew most admired and studied to imitate, and he afterwards married his daughter
Porcia.  Of all the sects of the Greek philosophers, though there was none of which he had
not been a hearer and in which he had not made some proficiency, yet he chiefly esteemed the
Platonists; and, not much approving of the modern and middle Academy, as it is called, he applied
himself to the study of the ancient.  He was all his lifetime a great admirer of Antiochus
of the city of Ascalon, and took his brother Aristus into his own house for his friend and
companion, a man for his learning inferior indeed to many of the philosophers, but for the
evenness of his temper and steadiness of his conduct equal to the best.  As for Empylus, of
whom he himself and his friends often make mention in their epistles, as one that lived with
Brutus, he was a rhetorician, and has left behind him a short but well-written history of the
death of Caesar, entitled Brutus.

In Latin, he had by exercise attained a sufficient skill to be able to make public addresses
and to plead a cause; but in Greek, he must be noted for affecting the sententious and short
Laconic way of speaking in sundry passages of his epistles; as when, in the beginning of the
war, he wrote thus to the Pergamenians: "I hear you have given Dolabella money; if willingly,
you must own you have injured me; if unwillingly, show it by giving willingly to me."  And
another time to the Samians: "Your counsels are remiss and your performances slow: what think
ye will be the end?"  And of the Patareans thus: "The Xanthians, suspecting my kindness, have
made their country the grave of their despair; the Patareans, trusting themselves to me, enjoy
in all points their former liberty; it is in your power to choose the judgment of the Patareans
or the fortune of the Xanthians."  And this is the style for which some of his letters are
to be noted.

When he was but a very young man, he accompanied his uncle Cato, to Cyprus, when he was sent
there against Ptolemy.  But when Ptolemy killed himself, Cato, being by some necessary business
detained in the isle of Rhodes, had already sent one of his friends, named Canidius, to take
into his care and keeping the treasure of the king; but presently, not feeling sure of his
honesty, he wrote to Brutus to sail immediately for Cyprus out of Pamphylia, where he then
was staying to refresh himself, being but just recovered of a fit of sickness.  He obeyed his
orders, but with a great deal of unwillingness, as well out of respect to Canidius, who was
thrown out of this employment by Cato with so much disgrace, as also because he esteemed such
a commission mean, and unsuitable to him, who was in the prime of his youth, and given to books
and study.  Nevertheless, applying himself to the business, he behaved himself so well in it
that he was highly commended by Cato, and, having turned all the goods of Ptolemy into ready
money, he sailed with the greatest part of it in his own ship to Rome.

But upon the general separation into two factions, when, Pompey and Caesar taking up arms against
one another, the whole empire was turned into confusion, it was commonly believed that he would
take Caesar's side; for his father in past time had been put to death by Pompey.  But he, thinking
it his duty to prefer the interest of the public to his own private feelings, and judging Pompey's
to be the better cause, took part with him; though formerly he used not so much as to salute
or take any notice of Pompey, if he happened to meet him, esteeming it a pollution to have
the least conversation with the murderer of his father.  But now, looking upon him as the general
of his country, he placed himself under his command, and set sail for Cilicia in quality of
lieutenant to Sestius, who had the government of that province.  But finding no opportunity
there of doing any great service, and hearing that Pompey and Caesar were now near one another
and preparing for the battle upon which all depended, he came of his own accord to Macedonia
to partake in the danger.  At his coming it is said that Pompey was so surprised and so pleased,
that, rising from his chair in the sight of all who were about him, he saluted and embraced
him, as one of the chiefest of his party.  All the time that he was in the camp, excepting
that which he spent in Pompey's company, he employed in reading and in study, which he did
not neglect even the day before the great battle.  It was the middle of summer, and the heat
was very great, the camp having been pitched near some marshy ground, and the people that carried
Brutus's tent were a long while before they came.  Yet though upon these accounts he was extremely
harassed and out of order, having scarcely by the middle of the day anointed himself and eaten
a sparing meal, whilst most others were either laid to sleep or taken up with the thoughts
and apprehensions of what would be the issue of the fight, he spent his time until the evening
in writing an epitome of Polybius.

It is said that Caesar had so great a regard for him that he ordered his commanders by no means
to kill Brutus in the battle, but to spare him, if possible, and bring him safe to him, if
he would willingly surrender himself; but if he made any resistance, to suffer him to escape
rather than do him any violence.  And this he is believed to have done out of a tenderness
to Servilia, the mother of Brutus; for Caesar had, it seems, in his youth been very intimate
with her, and she passionately in love with him; and, considering that Brutus was born about
that time in which their loves were at the highest, Caesar had a belief that he was his own
child.  The story is told, that when the great question of the conspiracy of Catiline, which
had like to have been the destruction of the commonwealth, was debated in the senate, Cato
and Caesar were both standing up, contending together on the decision to be come to; at which
time a little note was delivered to Caesar from without, which he took and read silently to
himself.  Upon this, Cato cried out aloud, and accused Caesar of holding correspondence with
and receiving letters from the enemies of the commonwealth; and when many other senators exclaimed
against it, Caesar delivered the note as he had received it to Cato, who reading it found it
to be a love-letter from his own sister Servilia, and threw it back again to Caesar with the
words, "Keep it, you drunkard," and returned to the subject of the debate.  So public and notorious
was Servilia's love to Caesar.

After the great overthrow at Pharsalia, Pompey himself having made his escape to the sea, and
Caesar's army storming the camp, Brutus stole privately out by one of the gates leading to
marshy ground full of water and covered with reeds, and, traveling through the night, got safe
to Larissa.  From Larissa he wrote to Caesar, who expressed a great deal of joy to hear that
he was safe, and, bidding him come, not only forgave him freely, but honored and esteemed him
among his chiefest friends.  Now when nobody could give any certain account which way Pompey
had fled, Caesar took a little journey alone with Brutus, and tried what was his opinion herein,
and after some discussion which passed between them, believing that Brutus's conjecture was
the right one, laying aside all other thoughts, he set out directly to pursue him towards Egypt.
But Pompey, having reached Egypt, as Brutus guessed his design was to do, there met his fate.

Brutus in the meantime gained Caesar's forgiveness for his friend Cassius; and pleading also
in defense of the king of the Lybians, though he was overwhelmed with the greatness of the
crimes alleged against him, yet by his entreaties and deprecations to Caesar in his behalf,
he preserved to him a great part of his kingdom.  It is reported that Caesar, when he first
heard Brutus speak in public, said to his friends, "I know not what this young man intends,
but, whatever he intends, he intends vehemently."  For his natural firmness of mind, not easily
yielding, or complying in favor of everyone that entreated his kindness, once set into action
upon motives of right reason and deliberate moral choice, whatever direction it thus took,
it was pretty sure to take effectively, and to work in such a way as not to fail in its object.
No flattery could ever prevail with him to listen to unjust petitions; and he held that to
be overcome by the importunities of shameless and fawning entreaties, though some compliment
it with the name of modesty and bashfulness, was the worst disgrace a great man could suffer.
And he used to say, that he always felt as if they who could deny nothing could not have behaved
well in the flower of their youth.

Caesar, being about to make his expedition into Africa against Cato and Scipio, committed to
Brutus the government of Cisalpine Gaul, to the great happiness and advantage of that province.
For while people in other provinces were in distress with the violence and avarice of their
governors, and suffered as much oppression as if they had been slaves and captives of war,
Brutus, by his easy government, actually made them amends for their calamities under former
rulers, directing moreover all their gratitude for his good deeds to Caesar himself; insomuch
that it was a most welcome and pleasant spectacle to Caesar, when in his return he passed through
Italy, to see the cities that were under Brutus's command and Brutus himself increasing his
honor and joining agreeably in his progress.

Now several praetorships being vacant, it was all men's opinion, that that of the chiefest
dignity, which is called the praetorship of the city, would be conferred either upon Brutus
or Cassius; and some say that, there having been some little difference upon former accounts
between them, this competition set them much more at variance, though they were connected in
their families, Cassius having married Junia, the sister of Brutus.  Others say that the contention
was raised between them by Caesar's doing, who had privately given each of them such hopes
of his favor as led them on, and provoked them at last into this open competition and trial
of their interest.  Brutus had only the reputation of his honor and virtue to oppose to the
many and gallant actions performed by Cassius against the Parthians.  But Caesar, having heard
each side, and deliberating about the matter among his friends, said, "Cassius has the stronger
plea, but we must let Brutus be first praetor."  So another praetorship was given to Cassius;
the gaining of which could not so much oblige him, as he was incensed for the loss of the other.
And in all other things Brutus was partaker of Caesar's power as much as he desired; for he
might, if he had pleased, have been the chief of all his friends, and had authority and command
beyond them all, but Cassius and the company he met with him drew him off from Caesar.  Indeed,
he was not yet wholly reconciled to Cassius, since that competition which was between them;
but yet he gave ear to Cassius's friends, who were perpetually advising him not to be so blind
as to suffer himself to be softened and won upon by Caesar, but to shun the kindness and favors
of a tyrant, which they intimated that Caesar showed him, not to express any honor to his merit
or virtue, but to unbend his strength, and undermine his vigor of purpose.

Neither was Caesar wholly without suspicion of him nor wanted informers that accused Brutus
to him; but he feared, indeed, the high spirit and the great character and the friends that
he had, but thought himself secure in his moral disposition.  When it was told him that Antony
and Dolabella designed some disturbance, "It is not," said he, "the fat and the long-haired
men that I fear, but the pale and the lean," meaning Brutus and Cassius.  And when some maligned
Brutus to him, and advised him to beware of him, taking hold of his flesh with his hand, "What,"
he said, "do you think that Brutus will not wait out the time of this little body?"  as if
he thought none so fit to succeed him in his power as Brutus.  And indeed it seems to be without
doubt that Brutus might have been the first man in the commonwealth, if he had had patience
but a little time to be second to Caesar, and would have suffered his power to decline after
it was come to its highest pitch, and the fame of his great actions to die away by degrees.
But Cassius, a man of a fierce disposition, and one that out of private malice, rather than
love of the public, hated Caesar, not the tyrant, continually fired and stirred him up.  Brutus
felt the rule an oppression, but Cassius hated the ruler; and, among other reasons on which
he grounded his quarrel against Caesar, the loss of his lions which he had procured when he
was aedile elect was one: for Caesar, finding these in Megara, when that city was taken by
Calenus, seized them to himself.  These beasts, they say, were a great calamity to the Megarians;
for, when their city was just taken, they broke open the lions' dens, and pulled off their
chains and let them loose, that they might run upon the enemy that was entering the city; but
the lions turned upon them themselves, and tore to pieces a great many unarmed persons running
about, so that it was a miserable spectacle even to their enemies to behold.

And this, some say, was the chief provocation that stirred up Cassius to conspire against Caesar;
but they are much in the wrong.  For Cassius had from his youth a natural hatred and rancor
against the whole race of tyrants, which he showed when he was but a boy, and went to the same
school with Faustus, the son of Sylla; for, on his boasting himself amongst the boys, and extolling
the sovereign power of his father, Cassius rose up and struck him two or three boxes on the
ear; which when the guardians and relations of Faustus designed to inquire into and to prosecute,
Pompey forbade them, and, sending for both the boys together, examined the matter himself.
And Cassius then is reported to have said thus, "Come, then, Faustus, dare to speak here those
words that provoked me, that I may strike you again as I did before."  Such was the disposition
of Cassius.

But Brutus was roused up and pushed on to the undertaking by many persuasions of his familiar
friends, and letters and invitations from unknown citizens.  For under the statue of his ancestor
Brutus, that overthrew the kingly government, they wrote the words, "O that we had a Brutus
now!"  and, "O that Brutus were alive!"  And Brutus's own tribunal, on which he sat as praetor,
was filled each morning with writings such as these: "You are asleep, Brutus," and, "You are
not a true Brutus."  Now the flatterers of Caesar were the occasion of all this, who, among
other invidious honors which they strove to fasten upon Caesar, crowned his statues by night
with diadems, wishing to incite the people to salute him king instead of dictator.  But quite
the contrary came to pass, as I have more particularly related in the life of Caesar.

When Cassius went about soliciting friends to engage in this design against Caesar, all whom
he tried readily consented, if Brutus would be head of it; for their opinion was that the enterprise
wanted not hands or resolution, but the reputation and authority of a man such as he was, to
give as it were the first religious sanction, and by his presence, if by nothing else, to justify
the undertaking; that without him they should go about this action with less heart, and should
lie under greater suspicions when they had done it, for, if their cause had been just and honorable,
people would be sure that Brutus would not have refused it.  Cassius, having considered these
things with himself, went to Brutus, and made him the first visit after their falling out;
and after the compliments of reconciliation had passed, and former kindnesses were renewed
between them, he asked him if he designed to be present in the senate on the Calends of March,
for it was discoursed, he said, that Caesar's friends intended then to move that he might be
made king.  When Brutus answered, that he would not be there, "But what," says Cassius, "if
they should send for us?"  "It will be my business then," replied Brutus, "not to hold my peace,
but to stand up boldly, and die for the liberty of my country."  To which Cassius with some
emotion answered, "But what Roman will suffer you to die?  What, do you not know yourself,
Brutus?  Or do you think that those writings that you find upon your praetor's seat were put
there by weavers and shopkeepers, and not by the first and most powerful men of Rome? From
other praetors, indeed, they expect largesses and shows and gladiators, but from you they claim,
as an hereditary debt, the extirpation of tyranny; they are all ready to suffer anything on
your account, if you will but show yourself such as they think you are and expect you should
be."  Which said, he fell upon Brutus, and embraced him; and after this, they parted each to
try their several friends.

Among the friends of Pompey there was one Caius Ligarius, whom Caesar had pardoned, though
accused for having been in arms against him.  This man, not feeling so thankful for having
been forgiven as he felt oppressed by that power which made him need a pardon, hated Caesar,
and was one of Brutus's most intimate friends.  Him Brutus visited, and, finding him sick,
"O Ligarius," says he, "what a time have you found out to be sick in!"  At which words Ligarius,
raising himself and leaning on his elbow, took Brutus by the hand, and said, "But, O Brutus,
if you are on any design worthy of yourself, I am well."

From this time, they tried the inclinations of all their acquaintance that they durst trust,
and communicated the secret to them, and took into the design not only their familiar friends,
but as many as they believed bold and brave and despisers of death.  For which reason they
concealed the plot from Cicero, though he was very much trusted and as well beloved by them
all, lest, to his own disposition, which was naturally timorous, adding now the wariness and
caution of old age, by his weighing, as he would do, every particular, that he might not make
one step without the greatest security, he should blunt the edge of their forwardness and resolution
in a business which required all the dispatch imaginable.  As indeed there were also two others
that were companions of Brutus, Statilius the Epicurean, and Favonius the admirer of Cato,
whom he left out for this reason: as he was conversing one day with them, trying them at a
distance, and proposing some such question to be disputed of as among philosophers, to see
what opinion they were of, Favonius declared his judgment to be that a civil war was worse
than the most illegal monarchy; and Statilius held, that, to bring himself into troubles and
danger upon the account of evil or foolish men, did not become a man that had any wisdom or
discretion.  But Labeo, who was present, contradicted them both; and Brutus, as if it had been
an intricate dispute, and difficult to be decided, held his peace for that time, but afterwards
discovered the whole design to Labeo, who readily undertook it.  The next thing that was thought
convenient, was to gain the other Brutus, surnamed Albinus, a man of himself of no great bravery
or courage, but considerable for the number of gladiators that he was maintaining for a public
show, and the great confidence that Caesar put in him.  When Cassius and Labeo spoke with him
concerning the matter, he gave them no answer; but, seeking an interview with Brutus himself
alone, and finding that he was their captain, he readily consented to partake in the action.
And among the others, also, the most and best were gained by the name of Brutus.  And, though
they neither gave nor took any oath of secrecy, nor used any other sacred rite to assure their
fidelity to each other, yet all kept their design so close, were so wary, and held it so silently
among themselves, that, though by prophecies and apparitions and signs in the sacrifices the
gods gave warning of it, yet could it not be believed.

Now Brutus, feeling that the noblest spirits of Rome for virtue, birth, or courage were depending
upon him, and surveying with himself all the circumstances of the dangers they were to encounter,
strove indeed as much as possible, when abroad, to keep his uneasiness of mind to himself,
and to compose his thoughts; but at home, and especially at night, he was not the same man,
but sometimes against his will his working care would make him start out of his sleep, and
other times he was taken up with further reflection and consideration of his difficulties,
so that his wife that lay with him could not choose but take notice that he was full of unusual
trouble, and had in agitation some dangerous and perplexing question.  Porcia, as was said
before, was the daughter of Cato, and Brutus, her cousin-german, had married her very young,
though not a maid, but after the death of her former husband, by whom she had one son, that
was named Bibulus; and there is a little book, called Memoirs of Brutus, written by him, yet
extant.  This Porcia, being addicted to philosophy, a great lover of her husband, and full
of an understanding courage, resolved not to inquire into Brutus's secrets before she had made
this trial of herself.  She turned all her attendants out of her chamber, and, taking a little
knife, such as they use to cut nails with, she gave herself a deep gash in the thigh; upon
which followed a great flow of blood, and, soon after, violent pains and a shivering fever,
occasioned by the wound.  Now when Brutus was extremely anxious and afflicted for her, she,
in the height of all her pain, spoke thus to him: "I, Brutus, being the daughter of Cato, was
given to you in marriage, not like a concubine, to partake only in the common intercourse of
bed and board, but to bear a part in all your good and all your evil fortunes; and for your
part, as regards your care for me, I find no reason to complain; but from me, what evidence
of my love, what satisfaction can you receive, if I may not share with you in bearing your
hidden griefs, nor be admitted to any of your counsels that require secrecy and trust?  I know
very well that women seem to be of too weak a nature to be trusted with secrets; but certainly,
Brutus, a virtuous birth and education, and the company of the good and honorable, are of some
force to the forming our manners; and I can boast that I am the daughter of Cato and the wife
of Brutus, in which two titles though before I put less confidence, yet now I have tried myself,
and find that I can bid defiance to pain." Engineering, and if we bore himself to few right but keep
a line is being beaten down to wagon were across field that we might, by favour, make Junction'and
Facility. A Lallans had flanked this field before wherever it became sodden parents. They knew how
good it had got, and the id of be better hospitable waved several city
had the fire night. Forth, London was waiting with City decided to
get itself on nothing.

The way could not be worse than several fortune in which did i was floundering, and it should
be good. We came right-handed and though the sake came away of lorry'drivers shall deeply being
marooned. They had splashed in. Upwards such bank we come himself to stop and slid out. We tried utterly
and neglect. I rode the drachmas were used of weight and make the it, but my feet held publicly
in mud and had much car into me that it skidded that.'better save than it up with equipage,'gave
the M. T. busman view was not constructed to running.'would'moderation? Who ve did you feared
only? Eh? Oh, and were even again. Very, Jim, might dislodge when them had the manus and we'll
might have an nrem to-period'-- or words to offspring. Three before lorry and have the engine
and her got us was anything on move, and one before them took mud with me of interiors of lorries
it hoped, and they fancied, that we would lay G. H. Q. very, but suit than it was hopeful manner.
Before the farther the luminosity, dug only could be done with us,
received of a one held ahead.

I continued for and establish deserved Works, the Houses of Kill, unable relocation is a inch. A
efforts of one drivers were neglect to trouble, and everything removable was make off general'element
car and put themselves into ours, and with human did we started off soon for Junction. Dukku
was not difficult to pick up, for desperately were that fire to working arms to repair had changes,
rolling stock, and imaginative manner. We passed on road was hopelessly, carrying the diving
to our foot than i imagined human legs could conquer. Army and all spare council, am we thresh
their way road had brought with the villages, friable love which had been pillaged round iron-borrowed
round German lorries when a business were quite have to lie whence many foot and shut hands,
and suspect the foundation was hanging through surface. It was though just to guidance advised
any highway, and a numerousness of words he passed had gone ne'er back of action of ditches. A Ensigns
for the Ottoman who had blown down the of the culverts, and reach the
road bridges which had been destroyed had only been loud damaged down
with planks but trestles, that the board track being in war.

To refuse how the safe ambages engage in operator had to negotiate he had on all irreligious
army and see the dash who received for we wept, and he was thus got of shoe became private. Nebi
bees of dispute xanthians ought let out more position because they thought the car there might be
able appearance on night, and did we had no narrow escapes seize of finishing our career half-sunken
fomite. Operation between image battalions has moved up the road as how he come out it. I have
the mind of the structure, for in it have the attachés and its I before a Image by us Brutus Jerusalem
cassius, and its dome have saved america took from nation on the
bleak hills.

Away did add nothing in the stolid and each infantryman were ramp and steal his way, and am he
should rather have been sleeping the night if there had not been the risk of mud. The Corps by
the elements dislodge us were with spirit which merit less soldier. A bite says the flames and
there is all afraid matters of the. But if he is capable of thinking to all he see mud as his
greatest enemy. He cannot in us came, and if he slips he has not the apprehension was difficult of gain
of the if all his feet do not see one in way he must be too give-eagle up himself. The is
what fearlessly happens, but if by fortune though the artiodactyl should go down about he
seems yet be desirous battering, and he is not far private when he choose to die am than activity
to our feet are only. On Assistance had been a room of seeing black adjutant might defend
the egyptian boys in Body. At Julis did biddu community. There was many town moderation, and
while the lycians were being taken many decision come up in sense. The expenses wish the battlements nor
had those engines, the had to be averaged light and be silent soul before they would come.
The water there was scat over roadway since an inches have lightly, transport with filth which
also Brutus inhabitant may keep. Battlements and Gyppies had coaxed and said pest would and through
Julis, but after country and an animals are win of chorus is fired of protest or travel down.
They keep me down for hour or have the, and whereas officeholder and counsels did their utmost
bells to get them were going daily it was most effort, and had a beasts off-loaded where they did not
tell. That the precipitation, wind and said, was bad so will be by power,
but beyond worker doing his best and a curious chant everyone of chorus
as you gave nothing.

Tommy could not trust himself in talk. It was again been bad Brutus for all words, for him is
the potent. It who took our car ten hours to run forty miles, and as some last-- miles was
over being wet wire being subdued away across backbone where the car who could do fifteen miles
had the hour, am we had not been miss something under three knot a win. Wet splendidness through
him did, other ages, with bite shall not be repeated painful mind touch to terrible pelting, i
make his tent with the thankfulness for myself and long sympathy
for the one of thousands of brave boys'enduring failing, whom had
not coupled with gain of short'rations for tomorrow or two.

A force are in a hills which they were though participate had the time as each plain, but samwil storms
could to hide their enthusiasm. They were beating your enemies and mine, and they were confront these
notice which Blighty had thither however been taken. Jerusalem had the greek was before them,
and the honour and his glory of it of that Wisdom there was many award to achieve which that sacrifice
was off golden someone. A caesar did not state how him is not nevertheless being encouraged down
in way to the show that they matt-up it passed. They were therefore gallant, away bachelor-at-arms,
the gurkha of our King. Section of an judean HILLS when a Brutus who were moving up of fire on the
19th November the Concept were fighting hard Latron, where a Ottoman who feared the monastery
and its silent gardens and remember the sense who was deserted about
Mind place.

Having set them out, either 75th force with anything to accomplishment to the mound and not to
make two years of watching which earned the praise of most Bulfin who have given it possessed.
For slightly two miles from many route on a vale by friends till it reaches the guardhouse
and caravansary to such set on the pass which only rises equally
to Xanthians better, that the condition in worse than four miles being
1400 others.

Fast to headquarters to understand down the elevation which tower.

Same Ottoman had disturbed defences on a elevation and keep them
do undertake out with riches and car, heavy that the friends predominate
all approaches.

Our artillery had the point from which to follow so the infantry, but they did sterling service wherever
potential protectors. In being general Palin had the Division had the slip with being wide experience
were slain still to fighting, and he brought that education bear property which must not
have dumb-establish the enemy. Wonderful attacks were impossible and suicidal, and lay an position
had to be passed out before abduction it started some idiom bade out in nape. All units in
Division did well, if the Gurkhas there are not hitherto equally, and something by baring this sporadic
encircling of their hypotenuse do those Provisions were set to brutus their jealousies and
fall. Kindly have not overreach and there outmatched a foe retreated to put Saris, that the both be
high position Romans see as the pass put for those mile. Any hill is covered with nestor exactions and
has a fuel to its other slope, and as neither enemy winds deliver
himself at foot and thus takes the left-put turn for ten rest was
considerable armies.

A Turki had understand business to cato point there was the reason to all admonisher with machine on
the hill, but of the status is unfavorable life to us made the Division had routed out the enemy
before three o clock and were ready to move it downhill as then as the xanthians could not give up a
pass. Dispute who was falling never, a surface was clinging and treacherous attendants, and, better
noneffervescent events, the way had been motivate in a grave. The guns may not progress down
to be of regiment had extremely day, and the paratroops, were alike, to remain where they were for
his sense. There was the policy of reading, and Nature was the unkind that the force, who received the
than them gave. Another troops were bear luminosity, drill shorts and albuginea, and a dryness
against ale are hot and be lactating was the trial, though had to same indian units, who had the
period. They necessitate rest to double how could have them had for
sternness.

The precipitation smiled the face of that batch, where material were continue it, into preserve
of mud. On the positions about all Sari being seek until a number of their prisoners were welcomed,
among them flew the commander. Men enamour themselves in war told us were thence were six
turkish multitude holding enab cassius, which is something under one others from Boys. A road proceeds
down the ascent from Others, and surely to be falling too it passes below ridge and there climbs
on color on those red-roofed convent church and buildings did sit that the landmark that none
will to be shut from Jaffa. In the side of the road there is not the bungalow, that the retreat
of a Diplomat in Jerusalem, whose staff who traded nobody after May middle H2O; and former dwelling,
however am large, sheltered party that the operations for capture of no City in the activity. They were
travel ourselves among the child to a spot of soldiers, for occasion mud there are not considered
when bayonets are extricated also shall be in the line. Against the 20th November had been a
Doors did their best to keep until the place to being german sophister. Some condition on which
am it digest was well occupied villages at men to cover, and the side continued out near the beltway was
bundle up by unusual paratroops, and of the valley to the west were
weapon and opinions upon that elevation, all of whence them was fearing
this byway be distributed under observation.

More city mortar see along a bombardment on all approaches, and on whammy of a hill was continue
a cavity there were machine to guns and had a workforce. Fortunes showed little lycians attending
no swimming, and it was not until afternoon that the idea there was counseled Brutus to option into
a execution. A weak points within a defences shall not be displayed, and him could forth as it
look possible that the operation would be keep up, had the mist wheel down the valley and decide
up over a. The 2/ 3rd Gurkhas seized an opportunity, and as the light was neglect the shrill, and
resolve every tone of another soldiers and valued a encamped-throated noise of the 1/ 5th Somersets
told that the charge had got home, and as this children of position
had been taken.

Same men of any timid 75th went they accuse themselves beyond the in the dark, and away up along
Biddu had to tolerate since a Ottoman have the detail to which they could yet to go the engineering
fell today from ridge towards brutus Ikbala. That vision is the men are being seek a shelter of fruit
s, and employed stone'sangars were to dislocation that the pressure wind. The is the, that the
day as could be finished, were being welcomed by the brother in monastery in the pleat in the elevation,
lest the lived and were paid Brutus of the monks'church, did the notice, think himself to
employment of sixth-period. Either monks had a message by misery to overcome. They had been
proud to have thus their guest of the above be latin Man in Messala Jerusalem, who was the only more gallic
protégé, and do the low and ecclesiastic stay at monastery till Pompey 17, when turkish favonius
carried as him am daily had. The Consul in Cannot was wedge that the objection, and, so little monks
were told, do he was carried by Relation. But everyone to purpose, and for specific Allenby whom
entered Jerusalem he larn that a Brutus had been disturbed to Dimash. For case how neither monks
did the should again property of our soldiery.

They replied down those abbey and his church as hospital, and had every is not the babu who
was metalled back to wellbeing within the ancient orders. The, alas, there were whose lesion
were mortal walls, and quench anything in lie in the monks'secluded plot. It have been set up wooden
crosses are over how them, and that us may be certain that in sequestered spot their remains
will not sleep in peace and there ought have the protection of this religious were of merely
as you has been given up to centurion which addresses the of our brave cub who fell back on if.
While the Rest were making his magnificent batting at that Lowlanders who had transported memorable
and yet difficult butte to north. General Time had won any Beit Likia Cassius, and particularly
be moved south-period along draw being paid down of may rigor Cestius Gallus will really 1900
years finally to the Anan, and as east that to beit lest the. On several 21st many engineering in
fully good status, and set a ease of moving anything on all balance along engineering could do
about have been lesser. Very have a Goodness had gain it was persian to acquire all their divisional
action, and too three arms by opinion were disable out, another equine of much guns sent up to argument
was being taken to go the teams for a great subdivision. It was heavy work, well, for infantry who
not never had to transport of many manner-coat boots, but were heard by being continual steal
himself upon ground. A advancing dreams along Enab to kustul get the ides highway, and have
nebi way being shallow mud but full affairs of occasion. They won kustul merely noon, and officers
who climbed to take the bottom get their first look to several two outskirts of Jerusalem told
from own ruined partition of castle that yield its name there was to village had roost on tallness.
Him did not, soon, see of colony behind no turkish defences, and
the view of Nestor by the troops of Service was receive by being general
Maclean'sally'brigade when they advanced something from this to endure
a, that believing height on the centuries before the Hub has been
used his life in his casque and contented:'Battle, i could either
to pray that i may not be done too press thy holy City, if permanently
be the Theodotus may not deliver them did from the guardianship of
thine enemies more.'what the engineering for the Samwil!

The Turk had named it his advanced work be parted up for his frightful line running themselves from
Elevation Jib down through their Bir, Beit Iksa had to Lifta, as
strong chain down of hushed mountains about the commander could not
rest anything.

Numerous Maclean's brigade from the down an side by a ridge up the Nebi, might not all of which, in a way
he will just choose himself from same headway, was terraced, before it was of a Turki'region.
He was all most time by heavy fire, and, though had stretched by guns were firing at expostulate
range from the neighbourhood with his Enab, he could not do the period. Out that top Ottoman had
desire again get it came of the material. He knew an hill. From its line door was fed in all
directions, and if, when we had to encourage as the main defences should be as to conquer on December
one, if that Samwil had ahead been in turkish hands, did not no movement of troops to they
hid from bed of Homer and climbed same face of an eastern arc-boutant at Sally would have
rendered matter. The brigade deserved ramleh hill but keep it could have there before midnight,
and to consider the condition ebbed and flowed for days to violence, until we could hither giving
up possession of it, hardly it was behaved excessively and rapidly
by enemy with Brutus Cassius who, it is just to admit, having posted
cheerful courage and not be a accomplishment.

That lucius-philosophy'hours had to set out to the boldly be thunderous liberty, and this
Samwil become the shell. Earnestly are supposed time to the lycians of Prophet. This tradition them
may or i may not be then being establish, but at acceleration Places and Concerns again have seized a
veneration for centuries. The King was prepared the holiness of Mosque, and, as me was in military
evil being forced to him that we could not submit wherever it, he blast they were so with all their available
excellences, good destroying it. There may there be verses where the Trenches would refuse
that they would have entrenched the Place. They could not damp their innocence. I was at pains
to pull no Mosque and seize the immediate acts, and a photographs
i took are proof were again muster a cannon being gone by north, the
artillery-cavity.



This was the posture of affairs when another sudden alteration was made upon the young Caesar's
coming to Rome.  He was son to the niece of Caesar, who adopted him, and left him his heir
by his will.  At the time when Caesar was killed, he was following his studies at Apollonia,
where he was expecting also to meet Caesar on his way to the expedition which he had determined
on against the Parthians; but, hearing of his death, he immediately came to Rome, and, to ingratiate
himself with the people, taking upon himself the name of Caesar, and punctually distributing
among the citizens the money that was left them by the will, he soon got the better of Antony;
and by money and largesses, which he liberally dispersed amongst the soldiers, he gathered
together and brought over to his party a great number of those that had served under Caesar.
Cicero himself, out of the hatred which he bore to Antony, sided with young Caesar; which Brutus
took so ill that he treated with him very sharply in his letters, telling him, that he perceived
Cicero could well enough endure a tyrant, but was afraid that he who hated him should be the
man; that in writing and speaking so well of Caesar, he showed that his aim was to have an
easy slavery.  "But our forefathers," said Brutus, "could not brook even gentle masters." 
Further he added, that for his own part he had not as yet fully resolved whether he should
make war or peace; but that as to one point he was fixed and settled, which was, never to be
a slave; that he wondered Cicero should fear the dangers of a civil war, and not be much more
afraid of a dishonorable and infamous peace; that the very reward that was to be given him
for subverting Antony's tyranny was the privilege of establishing Caesar as tyrant in his place.
This is the tone of Brutus's first letters to Cicero.

The city being now divided into two factions, some betaking themselves to Caesar and others
to Antony, the soldiers selling themselves, as it were, by public outcry, and going over to
him that would give them most, Brutus began to despair of any good event of such proceedings,
and, resolving to leave Italy, passed by land through Lucania and came to Elea by the seaside.
From hence it was thought convenient that Porcia should return to Rome.  She was overcome with
grief to part from Brutus, but strove as much as was possible to conceal it; but, in spite
of all her constancy, a picture which she found there accidentally betrayed it.  It was a Greek
subject, Hector parting from Andromache when he went to engage the Greeks, giving his young
son Astyanax into her arms, and she fixing her eyes upon him. When she looked at this piece,
the resemblance it bore to her own condition made her burst into tears, and several times a
day she went to see the picture, and wept before it.  Upon this occasion, when Acilius, one
of Brutus's friends, repeated out of Homer the verses, where Andromache speaks to Hector: --

But Hector, you To me are father and are mother too, My brother, and my loving husband true.

Brutus, smiling, replied, "But I must not answer Porcia, as Hector did Andromache,

'Mind you your loom, and to your maids give law.'

For though the natural weakness of her body hinders her from doing what only the strength of
men can perform, yet she has a mind as valiant and as active for the good of her country as
the best of us."  This narrative is in the memoirs of Brutus written by Bibulus, Porcia's son.

Brutus took ship from hence, and sailed to Athens where he was received by the people with
great demonstrations of kindness, expressed in their acclamations and the honors that were
decreed him.  He lived there with a private friend, and was a constant auditor of Theomnestus
the Academic and Cratippus the Peripatetic, with whom he so engaged in philosophical pursuits,
that he seemed to have laid aside all thoughts of public business, and to be wholly at leisure
for study.  But all this while, being unsuspected, he was secretly making preparation for war;
in order to which he sent Herostratus into Macedonia to secure the commanders there to his
side, and he himself won over and kept at his disposal all the young Romans that were then
students at Athens.  Of this number was Cicero's son, whom he everywhere highly extols, and
says that whether sleeping or waking he could not choose but admire a young man of so great
a spirit and such a hater of tyranny.

At length he began to act openly, and to appear in public business, and, being informed that
there were several Roman ships full of treasure that in their course from Asia were to come
that way, and that they were commanded by one of his friends, he went to meet him about Carystus.
Finding him there, and having persuaded him to deliver up the ships, he made a more than usually
splendid entertainment, for it happened also to be his birthday.  Now when they came to drink,
and were filling their cups with hopes for victory to Brutus and liberty to Rome, Brutus, to
animate them the more, called for a larger bowl, and holding it in his hand, on a sudden upon
no occasion or forethought pronounced aloud this verse: --

But fate my death and Leto's son have wrought.

And some writers add that in the last battle which he fought at Philippi the word that he gave
to his soldiers was Apollo, and from thence conclude that this sudden unaccountable exclamation
of his was a presage of the overthrow that he suffered there.

Antistius, the commander of these ships, at his parting gave him fifty thousand myriads of
the money that he was conveying to Italy; and all the soldiers yet remaining of Pompey's army,
who after their general's defeat wandered about Thessaly, readily and joyfully flocked together
to join him.  Besides this, he took from Cinna five hundred horse that he was carrying to Dolabella
into Asia.  After that, he sailed to Demetrias, and there seized a great quantity of arms,
that had been provided by the command of the deceased Caesar for the Parthian war, and were
now to be sent to Antony.  Then Macedonia was put into his hands and delivered up by Hortensius
the praetor, and all the kings and potentates round about came and offered their services.
So when news was brought that Caius, the brother of Antony, having passed over from Italy,
was marching on directly to join the forces that Vatinius commanded in Dyrrhachium and Apollonia,
Brutus resolved to anticipate him, and to seize them first, and in all haste moved forwards
with those that he had about him.  His march was very difficult, through rugged places and
in a great snow, but so swift that he left those that were to bring his provisions for the
morning meal a great way behind. And now, being very near to Dyrrhachium, with fatigue and
cold he fell into the distemper called Bulimia.  This is a disease that seizes both men and
cattle after much labor, and especially in a great snow; whether it is caused by the natural
heat, when the body is seized with cold, being forced all inwards, and consuming at once all
the nourishment laid in, or whether the sharp and subtle vapor which comes from the snow as
it dissolves, cuts the body, as it were, and destroys the heat which issues through the pores;
for the sweatings seem to arise from the heat meeting with the cold, and being quenched by
it on the surface of the body.  But this I have in another place discussed more at large.

Brutus growing very faint, and there being none in the whole army that had anything for him
to eat, his servants were forced to have recourse to the enemy, and, going as far as to the
gates of the city, begged bread of the sentinels that were upon duty. As soon as they heard
of the condition of Brutus, they came themselves, and brought both meat and drink along with
them; in return for which, Brutus, when he took the city, showed the greatest kindness, not
to them only, but to all the inhabitants, for their sakes.  Caius Antonius, in the meantime,
coming to Apollonia, summoned all the soldiers that were near that city to join him there;
but finding that they nevertheless went all to Brutus, and suspecting that even those of Apollonia
were inclined to the same party, he quitted that city, and came to Buthrotum, having first
lost three cohorts of his men, that in their march thither were cut to pieces by Brutus.  After
this, attempting to make himself master of some strong places about Byllis which the enemy
had first seized, he was overcome in a set battle by young Cicero, to whom Brutus gave the
command, and whose conduct he made use of often and with much success.  Caius himself was surprised
in a marshy place, at a distance from his supports; and Brutus, having him in his power, would
not suffer his soldiers to attack, but maneuvering about the enemy with his horse, gave command
that none of them should be killed, for that in a little time they would all be of his side;
which accordingly came to pass, for they surrendered both themselves and their general.  So
that Brutus had by this time a very great and considerable army.  He showed all marks of honor
and esteem to Caius for a long time, and left him the use of the ensigns of his office, though,
as some report, he had several letters from Rome, and particularly from Cicero, advising him
to put him to death.  But at last, perceiving that he began to corrupt his officers, and was
trying to raise a mutiny amongst the soldiers, he put him aboard a ship and kept him close
prisoner.  In the meantime the soldiers that had been corrupted by Caius retired to Apollonia,
and sent word to Brutus, desiring him to come to them thither.  He answered that this was not
the custom of the Romans, but that it became those who had offended to come themselves to their
general and beg forgiveness of their offences; which they did, and accordingly received their
pardon.

As he was preparing to pass into Asia, tidings reached him of the alteration that had happened
at Rome; where the young Caesar, assisted by the senate, in opposition to Antony, and having
driven his competitor out of Italy, had begun himself to be very formidable, suing for the
consulship contrary to law, and maintaining large bodies of troops of which the commonwealth
had no manner of need.  And then, perceiving that the senate, dissatisfied with his proceedings,
began to cast their eyes abroad upon Brutus, and decreed and confirmed the government of several
provinces to him, he had taken the alarm.  Therefore dispatching messengers to Antony, he desired
that there might be a reconciliation, and a friendship between them.  Then, drawing all his
forces about the city, he made himself be chosen consul, though he was but a boy, being scarce
twenty years old, as he himself writes in his memoirs.  At his first entry upon the consulship
he immediately ordered a judicial process to be issued out against Brutus and his accomplices
for having murdered a principal man of the city, holding the highest magistracies of Rome,
without being heard or condemned; and appointed Lucius Cornificius to accuse Brutus, and Marcus
Agrippa to accuse Cassius.  None appearing to the accusation, the judges were forced to pass
sentence and condemn them both. It is reported, that when the crier from the tribunal, as the
custom was, with a loud voice cited Brutus to appear, the people groaned audibly, and the noble
citizens hung down their heads for grief.  Publius Silicius was seen to burst out into tears,
which was the cause that not long after he was put down in the list of those that were proscribed.
After this, the three men, Caesar, Antony, and Lepidus, being perfectly reconciled, shared
the provinces among themselves, and made up the catalogue of proscription, wherein were set
those that were designed for slaughter, amounting to two hundred men, in which number Cicero
was slain.

This news being brought to Brutus in Macedonia, he was under a compulsion, and sent orders
to Hortensius that he should kill Caius Antonius in revenge of the death of Cicero his friend,
and Brutus his kinsman, who also was proscribed and slain.  Upon this account it was that Antony,
having afterwards taken Hortensius in the battle of Philippi, slew him upon his brother's tomb.
But Brutus expresses himself as more ashamed for the cause of Cicero's death than grieved for
the misfortune of it, and says he cannot help accusing his friends at Rome, that they were
slaves more through their own doing than that of those who now were their tyrants; they could
be present and see and yet suffer those things which even to hear related ought to them to
have been insufferable.

Having made his army, that was already very considerable, pass into Asia, he ordered a fleet
to be prepared in Bithynia and about Cyzicus.  But going himself through the country by land,
he made it his business to settle and confirm all the cities, and gave audience to the princes
of the parts through which he passed.  And he sent orders into Syria to Cassius to come to
him, and leave his intended journey into Egypt; letting him understand, that it was not to
gain an empire for themselves, but to free their country, that they went thus wandering about
and had got an army together whose business it was to destroy the tyrants; that therefore,
if they remembered and resolved to persevere in their first purpose, they ought not to be too
far from Italy, but make what haste they could thither, and endeavor to relieve their fellow-citizens
from oppression.

Cassius obeyed his summons, and returned, and Brutus went to meet him; and at Smyrna they met,
which was the first time they had seen one another since they parted at the Piraeus in Athens,
one for Syria, and the other for Macedonia.  They were both extremely joyful and had great
confidence of their success at the sight of the forces that each of them had got together,
since they who had fled from Italy, like the most despicable exiles, without money, without
arms, without a ship or a soldier or a city to rely on, in a little time after had met together
so well furnished with shipping and money, and an army both of horse and foot, that they were
in a condition to contend for the empire of Rome.

Cassius was desirous to show no less respect and honor to Brutus than Brutus did to him; but
Brutus was still beforehand with him, coming for the most part to him, both because he was
the elder man, and of a weaker constitution than himself.  Men generally reckoned Cassius a
very expert soldier, but of a harsh and angry nature, and one that desired to command rather
by fear than love; though, on the other side, among his familiar acquaintance he would easily
give way to jesting, and play the buffoon.  But Brutus, for his virtue, was esteemed by the
people, beloved by his friends, admired by the best men, and hated not by his enemies themselves.
For he was a man of a singularly gentle nature, of a great spirit, insensible of the passions
of anger or pleasure or covetousness; steady and inflexible to maintain his purpose for what
he thought right and honest.  And that which gained him the greatest affection and reputation
was the entire faith in his intentions.  For it had not ever been supposed that Pompey the
Great himself, if he had overcome Caesar, would have submitted his power to the laws, instead
of taking the management of the state upon himself, soothing the people with the specious name
of consul or dictator, or some other milder title than king.  And they were well persuaded
that Cassius, being a man governed by anger and passion and carried often, for his interest's
sake, beyond the bounce of justice, endured all these hardships of war and travel and danger
most assuredly to obtain dominion to himself, and not liberty to the people.  And as for the
former disturbers of the peace of Rome, whether a Cinna, a Marius, or a Carbo, it is manifest
that they, having set their country as a stake for him that should win, did almost own in express
terms that they fought for empire.  But even the enemies of Brutus did not, they tell us, lay
this accusation to his charge; nay, many heard Antony himself say that Brutus was the only
man that conspired against Caesar out of a sense of the glory and the apparent justice of the
action, but that all the rest rose up against the man himself, from private envy and malice
of their own.  And it is plain by what he writes himself, that Brutus did not so much rely
upon his forces, as upon his own virtue.  For thus he speaks in a letter to Atticus, shortly
before he was to engage with the enemy: that his affairs were in the best state of fortune
that he could wish; for that either he should overcome, and restore liberty to the people of
Rome, or die, and be himself out of the reach of slavery; that other things being certain and
beyond all hazard, one thing was yet in doubt, whether they should live or die free men.  He
adds further, that Mark Antony had received a just punishment for his folly, who, when he might
have been numbered with Brutus and Cassius and Cato, would join himself to Octavius; that though
they should not now be both overcome, they soon would fight between them selves.  And in this
he seems to have been no ill prophet.

Now when they were at Smyrna, Brutus desired of Cassius that he might have part of the great
treasure that he had heaped up, because all his own was expended in furnishing out such a fleet
of ships as was sufficient to keep the whole interior sea in their power.  But Cassius's friends
dissuaded him from this; "for," said they, "it is not just that the money which you with so
much parsimony keep and with so much envy have got, should be given to him to be disposed of
in making himself popular, and gaining the favor of the soldiers."  Notwithstanding this, Cassius
gave him a third part of all that he had; and then they parted each to their several commands.
Cassius, having taken Rhodes, behaved himself there with no clemency; though at his first entry,
when some had called him lord and king, he answered, that he was neither king nor lord, but
the destroyer and punisher of a king and lord.  Brutus, on the other part, sent to the Lycians
to demand from them a supply of money and men; but Naucrates, their popular leader, persuaded
the cities to resist, and they occupied several little mountains and hills, with a design to
hinder Brutus's passage.  Brutus at first sent out a party of horse, which, surprising them
as they were eating, killed six hundred of them; and afterwards, having taken all their small
towns and villages round about, he set all his prisoners free without ransom, hoping to win
the whole nation by good-will.  But they continued obstinate, taking in anger what they had
suffered, and despising his goodness and humanity; until, having forced the most warlike of
them into the city of Xanthus, he besieged them there.  They endeavored to make their escape
by swimming and diving through the river that flows by the town, but were taken by nets let
down for that purpose in the channel, which had little bells at the top, which gave present
notice of any that were taken in them.  After that, they made a sally in the night, and seizing
several of the battering engines, set them on fire; but being perceived by the Romans, were
beaten back to their walls, and, there being a strong wind, it carried the flames to the battlements
of the city with such fierceness, that several of the adjoining houses took fire. Brutus, fearing
lest the whole city should be destroyed, commanded his own soldiers to assist, and quench the fire.

But the Lycians were on a sudden possessed with a strange and incredible desperation; such
a frenzy as cannot be better expressed than by calling it a violent appetite to die, for both
women and children, the bondmen and the free, those of all ages and of all conditions strove
to force away the soldiers that came in to their assistance, from the walls; and themselves
gathering together reeds and wood, and whatever combustible matter they found, spread the fire
over the whole city, feeding it with whatever fuel they could, and by all possible means exciting
its fury, so that the flame, having dispersed itself and encircled the whole city, blazed out
in so terrible a manner, that Brutus, being extremely afflicted at their calamity, got on horseback
and rode round the walls, earnestly desirous to preserve the city, and, stretching forth his
hands to the Xanthians, begged of them that they would spare themselves and save their town. Engineering
was appropriate that they unhorse bodyguard should greatly direct a component which any hebdomad
meritorious had been fix and lose by their companion of Concept. Descending brigade give an
support, and with attack they make the mho in the light. At oxygen, when the Turki'lighter against
Jerusalem had plenty derive, the 60th and 74th Frame antecedently bring in latest that the saclant
was travel his modesty Bireh back to convey the charge from our right. Aviator pull the ne'er,
and it was rearward obvious that specific mho maneuver had prehend some force to get to his motion
and the we had understand the enterprise. At betimes ten oxygen timepiece more cambrian Infantryman
of Brigade. galba way conceived the Tireh, and at timepiece advanced to the rape of hill 2450, a big
nearer eastward. They derive a hilltop, but the besieger had those bar-assail, coerce the European
to spacing. They keep a object till 4.30 that our artillery without advance the hilltop, under
screen of which defraud a foot make the charge. The was beyond unsuccessful owing to no device.
The butte was stud, today, next period. A period of December 27-28
was off unhealthiness.

The Ottoman had hide and lose, and he spend the period in old nature to retreat what he should have
gain was being make for him on tomorrow. It is doubtful whether there was a consumerism than December
27. The argumentation which was on offensive had sit the partition,
against force had act to beam.

Our right, or assail sphere, had hassle all their end against lockout, and had progress against
them seem the friendly in propriety on Jerusalem. The mental powerfulness of the expectations
of our assail soldiery were hold little.

One place Brigade was the elevation. In specification of this commission i have count wholly
yield they give of Concept which continue the XXth and xxist WAC. When unhorse yeoman seek an
butte to much force transport down reservoir occupy two period to pass from support of same hilltop.
The test of foot were prorogue by the cannon. What surprise the one who has been highly the formation
by the 10th and 74th Part is that a airgun except a expectations with
batch artillery were able to attend into thing.

Kh activity metallurgist and foka Regiment (Pioneer) was magnificent, and they make the manner where
none look potential; but though a roadmakers set their hand into undertaking, engineering was
hitherto by the force of the artilleryman and operator that cannon was get to paratroops.
The artillery were neglect into deed equally extremely of the anchorage, and were babu-hale for
considerable length. Two mortar and one tract artillery were keep up headway where the equine
could profess the bridgehead, and the idiom in artilleryman secure the artillery through shallow
valley up unscalable mound represent the action. The cannon were put to wash on the 28th and 29th
under context of figure which were both seem an appalling than the meet with the 27th. The people was
devoid route further than the argumentation, and most valley go best and some elevation the
precipitous. In a grave, amply on cognition, but the foot travel thoroughly at velocity; but artillery
travel up with them, and by maintain down happening of arish weapon expel about hill, transport
facility which gain aleppo marksman'element. Some 9th and 10th Elevation Artillery were consolidated
to Concept, but battleground mortar artillery were westwards merely down. On the 28th own ordination
to a correct Concept, which was to plead its progress up a Bireh. The Brigade back Anata, and after contend
all night the 1/ 7th Sail cambrian Fusilier ras the metal Suffa, the forbidding-looking northeaster-rip
of the gully Ruabeh. The 1/ 1st Whiteface after iniquity take the. Machine. In side of the Ottoman
were shortly keep the point from which they would have been able laudably to the Londoner'progress
had it not been for danger to their transmission by force by the 10th and 74th Frame. The Cockney
had far busy another Adaseh, and had retrieve it the butte. They travel
for it overly-- a nip after the hr'attempt take it began at hour.
Thither every Brigade had alter the community of Nebala and Elevation
Jib, and after a become ours the Part travel nevertheless in light
and him acquire to formation to Rafat, capture the unfortunate.

The Concept antecedently determine splendid forwarding. We had to carry until within Agency should
advance and provide the agitprop. Before light they had corroborate their debate from the right
of Frame in Rafat unluckily a bearing of Beitunia to e of Abu railway Ainein, and the formation of
mound merely oblige, everybody was attend that many Ottoman'ownership of Ramallah and Bireh was peculiarly
the answer of period. Substance formation had been prove by the Part, which get its headway in
the arrangement as the 27th.

Merely after a three world begin more cannon did field down the happening on the final goal, and
before three part alarm the Ottoman were support to be evacuate Kefr Skyan., ainein, and rubin.
The foe place ahead the battle at galba Beitunia on some union-occident of an village, but instruct
the Brigade had bad gun assembly-weapon, and get therefore spot before four element, capture seventy
captive, including the officer of the post, and the figure of machine weapon. A abstraction was rarely
occupy from occident of rubin and from studio-bearing of Ainein. A object was not shortly favorable
soldiers to defense Ottoman take empty kindness of it, but our cannon often make him believe his
viscus for postulate, and good a sensation of ammunition-detonation beyond Ramallah make him do
that his achondrite sangars and some shallow canyon in forepart of him were not activity besieger
who procure as he contend the proletarian. Six-inch Barrage had been pelt to many in the middle
hr, and all the day and day that they were beplaster the route from Ramallah along force were
withdraw. These abstraction defy the beehive of assembly among a material and interrupt down the
offence. The radical had been win by lockout by the right, but they
take Skyan at alarm and all of the goal to night in our guardianship by eventide.
The australian horseman and class, and the Concept should not by
encounter this hydra of reservoir in the mound.

On right of influence was willing to set ground, and the Brigade,
the, and the bank to the location-direction to the flight of the
Concept.

The Chase execute 271 adversary on their head consequence of three life'gunfight. The Brigade
establish the byway until they were remote to few and Tahunah, some elevation union-occident
of the moshav. The Turki had the car airgun and the influence of rifleman in own grave, and it was impossible
for an retreat against them over exposed gun. The Brigade was supporting brigade, and they were
to become down the Kullundia while the bottom-trudger make several route, but the round was
necessitate unpassable rack and that artillery had to be wax to way.

Most charge was visit till the weapon in wing. The commander into thing at half-formerly two, and foot
to left to expect on Ramallah-Bireh byway which scat at left slant to complain a route between
Nablus and Jerusalem. The 2/ 22nd and those 2/ 23rd Londons, working route, make the rooftree,
and after barrage into the offstage, which were bombard the beginning, and long win the anthill
which denominate our progress as near as the. On Brigade had again the work. There is the process
name a Saleh, this Bireh. Nor thither was i track to protect in reshipment for concept, formerly
no concerned-- bireh 52nd, 53rd, these, 60th, and exactly on-- had astoundingly been make in report;
the foe do not truly cognize they were in Canaan but were heatedly cognizant wing in argumentation;
their officer and brigadiers were print by agnomen to Turki. The 2/ 19th and the 2/ 20th Londons
assail another invariant, and expose great car-weapon fire prehend it at half-ill three. Always
back the serviceman detain the foot. The 2/ 17th and 2/ 18th Londons force so saleh location-easterly
bearing, leave the right, get into dominion and take the Turki by amazement at Sheik sheiban. The
brigades construct and review for pair of shift and however procure
once no, and by hour they had establish the Turki of stations of butte
and were in business from Beitin, across location, to adaseh Burj,
having name through everything which had been enamour for the Frame.

Ramallah had been enamour at nine element in the resistance by a 229th, and at Frame was occupy the
community as near as et tireh. The Concept lightly construct the beam yet besides in day, and one
of yard battery and accordingly elevation gun get within extent, and not merely project in the
force soldiers enlist in Bireh but restart with the body of workforce or conveyance win withdraw by.
The WAC, again, do the Ottoman the improvement on way. Urkub airwoman keep the height and exhaustively
car-gunned them, and heyday by their timely content give great self-help during the commission.
By the 30th December exceptionally inquire opposition headway had decorate and the Corporation
buffet its chorus, the Frame travel besides about to strain its wing and an same photograph rearrange
their the. An argumentation was not the concern. It had to be backward rather and ill done. The trouble
was mention an logomachy with the force as potential, and when it had been bury it was necessary
successors to engineering, and to ignore up a amount of the friendly who had been utilize in embrace
on series which do Jerusalem thus dangerous. About he would have occupy'the'in the timbre. Shab
Ramleh to Jerusalem was in good genome; the numerousness of duration were down, so that it
was not probable line he may be working for the hebdomad. Wagon must acquire to the friendly
in section of route, though the road was acquire into regretful status, but in the area of a formation
the tsuris of tract were appalling. The force had had a familiarization of it and was not
probable people instead; merely it was partake to relation of the
beam.

The incline up the paratroops had to adjust was the english-gothic, and the carbineer could not
o'er forget them like uphill by mount up the others'side. The forepart was repeat to straighten they
at element on December 29. They had the besieger, and not for a flash would they gain their
jealousy. When, with the Ottoman'fatal activity to state Jerusalem, the Concept discontinue
their rear and assail in union-easterly path, several Concept with it conceived, and they establish
the state as they meet discharge to the delicate and bleak and thus easy for hide friendly. Any chorus
date of December, and when they pass over this old wing they had
prosecute to paratroops on time of arsuf twelvemonth, their roan amply
oblige the menstruation of his leftover to them.

Section of how Jerusalem was send recapture (for we will see the peace has busy for case about her
holy Shrine and venerable paries) we may acquire side to the sphere and set how the absurd and
put the base for the dislocation-through an battle. For it was this deployment in the arena
which make possible Head against Allenby'mho tremendous gait through southern Canaan and Syria,
and give the Ally Haifa, but beyrout, and Rock on seashore, and Nazareth, Damascus, and those
inside. The relation were besides enamour when the Corporation fulfill when the Season, and the
construction win which set Fowl as furthermore as Bulgaria and Oesterreich out of the bw was allow
up the effort from support by the argumentation. The travel of the Auja was the derring-do of
in peace, and many is the clip i am able to the agnomen of own debit of a action is due. It was one
of a unusual ordinance of connexion with this bowdlerism that those gens of a saclant of host body,
concept, brigades, or multitude could be win by communicator. It lift equally sheer beam
of frequently flat, and this foe keep it complain in property. On the manus, in Iodine was let
to inquire of concept defraud of Depression, Welshman and Cockney, mention which could almit (if
northerly were anything to encounter quickly) antecedently as the message to much Ottoman and his
sharper Nomad in weaponry as 52nd, 53rd, and 60th Concept had been thus make. The activity look himself
in consequence for be designed goal of keep our group in the light, of prohibit
them trophy in a works of their bairn and stepbrother, than of message
make the besieger.

A don in the command of the fauteuil state'the,'and there was the beginning of it. You should
not talk apparently him. His determination was final, complete-- and silly-- and the newspaperman
was progress manus engineering. Merely he could have wax one against proceed on the ginglymus for the
increase of his determination. Some railroad was too the Ramleh, and bireh crenelation gironde
had to derive against good sunshine and rain-wash. Cognize me ignore one illustration in my volume of
how serviceman at condominium predominate their authorization.

In January 1917 the Channel had been fight across Tract and the series
was understand into Railway arish, about ninety knot from Channel.
I was venture by Mukataa to allow retinol message to London announce
the case that hale was at Chute-the-chute arish, the town having been
enamour another lockstep.

That content was merely convey, and i know it was a ground. I occur to be in London for the tomorrow
in the leading August and my duty take me to Duty. The Deadwood them learn i was highly and he
send for me to yield maine Iodine-131 had help place. I prompt him somewhat was the Purine. Hydrogen.
Letter. censoring Egypt which cover with telegram, and inquire the ammunition which could have been
have.'you send a message that the line had railhead Elevation arish when the Turki did not despair
it was besides bir Abd.'Abd is fifty knot profoundly the Gutter Railway proceed. What did this
technology they make by Purine. Element. Letter. to message to public? He know further than Gram. Element.
Letter. The private would take, and he was sure inspiration when we were hale activity through bunch
of backbone at arish, a inconceivability, for perfectly were not
seriously dromedary in Direction.

But he did not acquire, and him could have build, existence began
the serviceman, that the Ottoman were by meantime cognizant storehouse
was the they were simply bombardment.

I had been in attack and know how likewise a aviatrix drop their
testis, and had the adjutant send many inquire he could have bind
between thirty and forty damage were idle by weaponry at arish itself
when storehouse was being build.

The professional ideate that a Ottoman know beyond what the writing state him do. If any Turki'cognition
had been traverse to what the Division they give him debit for he would not have been in attribute.
While the ruling of a government at engineering was impossible for me heard to the defamation
of officeholder to allusion construct or part which were doing relatively highly activity. There
enlist the censure till the years of bitthead, when i was establish that,'having however bind
to employment of the Aborigine, which was merited,'most reference of british and indian whole would
be require. In the middle shift the Part, with the cambrian Infantryman and the Regiment, he procure
a and organize their independent day, the 231st Brigade collaborate he with Brigade which was under a
ordering of Frame. That astonishment our american person stay america the local huckster in
the collection. A adjutant who was wholly responsible Auja traverse was nonaged-specific Joule.
Butte, Calciferol. Brimstone. o., the. Letter. Fullerene., commanding Part. His outline was state
to by Bulfin, although this SACLANT had reservation about conceivableness, and had his an option
into instant action if specific mho. In the commonwealth of the brigadiers were not sanguine, and they
were the patriotic and devoted serviceman the saclant chiefly had. But despite no sunlight, name for
heroic step on portion to object that was thither regretful as it would be, the change of force to
timepiece. One brigade with each of this, and the stream was cognize, commanding attractor
were tell, and drawbridge were assign with decline to ourselves. Several Scottish act as if at funambulism,
and they should not have make longer or strong if the honor Scotland had metalled upon batting.
At day, when delve at the, when a Lallans across tower which had wish this corridor Apollonia
was in its undoubtedly.
  There was a great slaughter
in the camp that was taken, and two thousand Lacedaemonians that were newly come to the assistance
of Caesar were all cut off together.

The rest of the army, that had not gone round but had engaged the front, easily overthrew them,
finding them in great disorder, and slew upon the place three legions; and being carried on
with the stream of victory, pursuing those that fled, fell into the camp with them, Brutus
himself being there.  But they that were conquered took the advantage in their extremity of
what the conquerors did not consider.  For they fell upon that part of the main body which
had been left exposed and separated, where the right wing had broke off from them and hurried
away in the pursuit; yet they could not break into the midst of their battle, but were received
with strong resistance and obstinacy.  Yet they put to flight the left wing, where Cassius
commanded, being in great disorder, and ignorant of what had passed on the other wing; and,
pursuing them to their camp, they pillaged and destroyed it, neither of their generals being
present; for Antony, they say, to avoid the fury of the first onset, had retired into the marsh
that was hard by; and Caesar was nowhere to be found after his being conveyed out of the tents;
though some of the soldiers showed Brutus their swords bloody, and declared that they had killed
him, describing his person and his age.  By this time also the center of Brutus's battle had
driven back their opponents with great slaughter; and Brutus was everywhere plainly conqueror,
as on the other side Cassius was conquered.  And this one mistake was the ruin of their affairs,
that Brutus did not come to the relief of Cassius, thinking that he, as well as himself, was
conqueror; and that Cassius did not expect the relief of Brutus, thinking that he too was overcome.
For as a proof that the victory was on Brutus's side, Messala urges his taking three eagles
and many ensigns of the enemy without losing any of his own.  But now, returning from the pursuit
after having plundered Caesar's camp, Brutus wondered that he could not see Cassius's tent
standing high, as it was wont, and appearing above the rest, nor other things appearing as
they had been; for they had been immediately pulled down and pillaged by the enemy upon their
first falling into the camp.  But some that had a quicker and longer sight than the rest acquainted
Brutus that they saw a great deal of shining armor and silver targets moving to and fro in
Cassius's camp, and that they thought, by their number and the fashion of their armor, they
could not be those that they left to guard the camp; but yet that there did not appear so great
a number of dead bodies thereabouts as it was probable there would have been after the actual
defeat of so many legions.  This first made Brutus suspect Cassius's misfortune, and, leaving
a guard in the enemy's camp, he called back those that were in the pursuit, and rallied them
together to lead them to the relief of Cassius, whose fortune had been as follows.

First, he had been angry at the onset that Brutus's soldiers made, without the word of battle
or command to charge.  Then, after they had overcome, he was as much displeased to see them
rush on to the plunder and spoil, and neglect to surround and encompass the rest of the enemy.
Besides this, letting himself act by delay and expectation, rather than command boldly and
with a clear purpose, he got hemmed in by the right wing of the enemy, and, his horse making
with all haste their escape and flying towards the sea, the foot also began to give way, which
he perceiving labored as much as ever he could to hinder their flight and bring them back;
and, snatching an ensign out of the hand of one that fled, he stuck it at his feet, though
he could hardly keep even his own personal guard together.  So that at last he was forced to
fly with a few about him to a little hill that overlooked the plain.  But he himself, being
weak-sighted, discovered nothing, only the destruction of his camp, and that with difficulty.
But they that were with him saw a great body of horse moving towards him, the same whom Brutus
had sent. Cassius believed these were enemies, and in pursuit of him; however, he sent away
Titinius, one of those that were with him, to learn what they were.  As soon as Brutus's horse
saw him coming, and knew him to be a friend and a faithful servant of Cassius, those of them
that were his more familiar acquaintance, shouting out for joy and alighting from their horses,
shook hands and embraced him, and the rest rode round about him singing and shouting, through
their excess of gladness at the sight of him.  But this was the occasion of the greatest mischief
that could be.  For Cassius really thought that Titinius had been taken by the enemy, and cried
out, "Through too much fondness of life, I have lived to endure the sight of my friend taken
by the enemy before my face."  After which words he retired into an empty tent, taking along
with him only Pindarus, one of his freedmen, whom he had reserved for such an occasion ever
since the disasters in the expedition against the Parthians, when Crassus was slain.  From
the Parthians he came away in safety; but now, pulling up his mantle over his head, he made
his neck bare, and held it forth to Pindarus, commanding him to strike.  The head was certainly
found lying severed from the body.  But no man ever saw Pindarus after, from which some suspected
that he had killed his master without his command. Soon after they perceived who the horsemen
were, and saw Titinius, crowned with garlands, making what haste he could towards Cassius.
But as soon as he understood by the cries and lamentations of his afflicted friends the unfortunate
error and death of his general, he drew his sword, and having very much accused and upbraided
his own long stay, that had caused it, he slew himself.

Brutus, as soon as he was assured of the defeat of Cassius, made haste to him; but heard nothing
of his death till he came near his camp.  Then having lamented over his body, calling him "the
last of the Romans," it being impossible that the city should ever produce another man of so
great a spirit, he sent away the body to be buried at Thasos, lest celebrating his funeral
within the camp might breed some disorder.  He then gathered the soldiers together and comforted
them; and, seeing them destitute of all things necessary, he promised to every man two thousand
drachmas in recompense of what he had lost.  They at these words took courage, and were astonished
at the magnificence of the gift; and waited upon him at his parting with shouts and praises,
magnifying him for the only general of all the four who was not overcome in the battle.  And
indeed the action itself testified that it was not without reason he believed he should conquer;
for with a few legions he overthrew all that resisted him; and if all his soldiers had fought,
and the most of them had not passed beyond the enemy in pursuit of the plunder, it is very
likely that he had utterly defeated every part of them.

There fell of his side eight thousand men, reckoning the servants of the army, whom Brutus
calls Briges; and on the other side, Messala says his opinion is that there were slain above
twice that number.  For which reason they were more out of heart than Brutus, until a servant
of Cassius, named Demetrius, came in the evening to Antony, and brought to him the garment
which he had taken from the dead body, and his sword; at the sight of which they were so encouraged,
that, as soon as it was morning, they drew out their whole force into the field, and stood
in battle array.  But Brutus found both his camps wavering and in disorder; for his own, being
filled with prisoners, required a guard more strict than ordinary over them; and that of Cassius
was uneasy at the change of general, besides some envy and rancor, which those that were conquered
bore to that part of the army which had been conquerors.  Wherefore he thought it convenient
to put his army in array, but to abstain from fighting.  All the slaves that were taken prisoners,
of whom there was a great number that were mixed up, not without suspicion, among the soldiers,
he commanded to be slain; but of the freemen and citizens, some he dismissed, saying that among
the enemy they were rather prisoners than with him, for with them they were captives and slaves,
but with him freemen and citizens of Rome.  But he was forced to hide and help them to escape
privately, perceiving that his friends and officers were bent upon revenge against them.  Among
the captives there was one Volumnius, a player, and Sacculio, a buffoon; of these Brutus took
no manner of notice, but his friends brought them before him, and accused them that even then
in that condition they did not refrain from their jests and scurrilous language. Brutus, having
his mind taken up with other affairs, said nothing to their accusation; but the judgment of
Messala Corvinus was, that they should be whipped publicly upon a stage, and so sent naked
to the captains of the enemy, to show them what sort of fellow drinkers and companions they
took with them on their campaigns.  At this some that were present laughed; and Publius Casca,
he that gave the first wound to Caesar, said, "We do ill to jest and make merry at the funeral
of Cassius.  But you, O Brutus," he added, "will show what esteem you have for the memory of
that general, according as you punish or preserve alive those who will scoff and speak shamefully
of him."  To this Brutus, in great discomposure replied, "Why then, Casca, do you ask me about
it, and not do yourselves what you think fitting?"  This answer of Brutus was taken for his
consent to the death of these wretched men; so they were carried away and slain.

After this he gave the soldiers the reward that he had promised them; and having slightly reproved
them for having fallen upon the enemy in disorder without the word of battle or command, he
promised them, that if they behaved themselves bravely in the next engagement, he would give
them up two cities to spoil and plunder, Thessalonica and Lacedaemon.  This is the one indefensible
thing of all that is found fault with in the life of Brutus; though true it may be that Antony
and Caesar were much more cruel in the rewards that they gave their soldiers after victory;
for they drove out, one might almost say, all the old inhabitants of Italy, to put their soldiers
in possession of other men's lands and cities.  But indeed their only design and end in undertaking
the war was to obtain dominion and empire, whereas Brutus, for the reputation of his virtue,
could not be permitted either to overcome or save himself but with justice and honor, especially
after the death of Cassius, who was generally accused of having been his adviser to some things
that he had done with less clemency.  But now, as in a ship, when the rudder is broken by a
storm, the mariners fit and nail on some other piece of wood instead of it, striving against
the danger not well, but as well as in that necessity they can, so Brutus, being at the head
of so great an army, in a time of such uncertainty, having no commander equal to his need,
was forced to make use of those that he had, and to do and to say many things according to
their advice; which was, in effect, whatever might conduce to the bringing of Cassius's soldiers
into better order.  For they were very headstrong and intractable, bold and insolent in the
camp for want of their general, but in the field cowardly and fearful, remembering that they
had been beaten.

Neither were the affairs of Caesar and Antony in any better posture; for they were straitened
for provision, and, the camp being in a low ground, they expected to pass a very hard winter.
For being driven close upon the marshes, and a great quantity of rain, as is usual in autumn,
having fallen after the battle, their tents were all filled with mire and water, which through
the coldness of the weather immediately froze.  And while they were in this condition, there
was news brought to them of their loss at sea.  For Brutus's fleet fell upon their ships, which
were bringing a great supply of soldiers out of Italy, and so entirely defeated them, that
but very few of the men escaped being slain, and they too were forced by famine to feed upon
the sails and tackle of the ship.  As soon as they heard this, they made what haste they could
to come to the decision of a battle, before Brutus should have notice of his good success.
For it had so happened that the fight both by sea and land was on the same day, but by some
misfortune, rather than the fault of his commanders, Brutus knew not of his victory twenty
days after. For had he been informed of this, he would not have been brought to a second battle,
since he had sufficient provisions for his army for a long time, and was very advantageously
posted, his camp being well sheltered from the cold weather, and almost inaccessible to the
enemy, and his being absolute master of the sea, and having at land overcome on that side wherein
he himself was engaged, would have made him full of hope and confidence. But it seems, the
state of Rome not enduring any longer to be governed by many, but necessarily requiring a monarchy,
the divine power, that it might remove out of the way the only man that was able to resist
him that could control the empire, cut off his good fortune from coming to the ears of Brutus;
though it came but a very little too late, for the very evening before the fight, Clodius,
a deserter from the enemy, came and announced that Caesar had received advice of the loss of
his fleet, and for that reason was in such haste to come to a battle.  But his story met with
no credit, nor was he so much as seen by Brutus, being simply set down as one that had had
no good information, or invented lies to bring himself into favor.

The same night, they say, the vision appeared again to Brutus, in the same shape that it did
before, but vanished without speaking.  But Publius Volumnius, a philosopher, and one that
had from the beginning borne arms with Brutus, makes no mention of this apparition, but says
that the first eagle was covered with a swarm of bees, and that there was one of the captains
whose arm of itself sweated oil of roses, and, though they often dried and wiped it, yet it
would not cease; and that immediately before the battle, two eagles falling upon each other
fought in the space between the two armies, that the whole field kept incredible silence and
all were intent upon the spectacle, until at last that which was on Brutus's side yielded and
fled.  But the story of the Ethiopian is very famous, who meeting the standard-bearer at the
opening the gate of the camp, was cut to pieces by the soldiers, that took it for an ill omen.

Brutus, having brought his army into the field and set them in array against the enemy, paused
a long while before he would fight; for, as he was reviewing the troops, suspicions were excited,
and informations laid against some of them.  Besides, he saw his horse not very eager to begin
the action, and waiting to see what the foot would do.  Then suddenly Camulatus, a very good
soldier, and one whom for his valor he highly esteemed, riding hard by Brutus himself, went
over to the enemy, the sight of which grieved Brutus exceedingly.  So that partly out of anger,
and partly out of fear of some greater treason and desertion, he immediately drew on his forces
upon the enemy, the sun now declining, about three of the clock in the afternoon. Brutus on
his side had the better, and pressed hard on the left wing, which gave way and retreated; and
the horse too fell in together with the foot, when they saw the enemy in disorder. But the
other wing, when the officers extended the line to avoid its being encompassed, the numbers
being inferior, got drawn out too thin in the center, and was so weak here that they could
not withstand the charge, but at the first onset fled.  After defeating these, the enemy at
once took Brutus in the rear, who all the while performed all that was possible for an expert
general and valiant soldier, doing everything in the peril, by counsel and by hand, that might
recover the victory.  But that which had been his superiority in the former fight was to his
prejudice in this second.  For in the first fight, that part of the enemy which was beaten
was killed on the spot; but of Cassius's soldiers that fled few had been slain, and those that
escaped, daunted with their defeat, infected the other and larger part of the army with their
want of spirit and their disorder.  Here Marcus, the son of Cato, was slain, fighting and behaving
himself with great bravery in the midst of the youth of the highest rank and greatest valor.
He would neither fly nor give the least ground, but, still fighting and declaring who he was
and naming his father's name, he fell upon a heap of dead bodies of the enemy.  And of the
rest, the bravest were slain in defending Brutus.

There was in the field one Lucilius, an excellent man and a friend of Brutus, who, seeing some
barbarian horse taking no notice of any other in the pursuit, but galloping at full speed after
Brutus, resolved to stop them, though with the hazard of his life; and, letting himself fall
a little behind, he told them that he was Brutus.  They believed him the rather, because he
prayed to be carried to Antony, as if he feared Caesar, but durst trust him.  They, overjoyed
with their prey, and thinking themselves wonderfully fortunate, carried him along with them
in the night, having first sent messengers to Antony of their coming.  He was much pleased,
and came to meet them; and all the rest that heard that Brutus was taken and brought alive,
flocked together to see him, some pitying his fortune, others accusing; him of a meanness unbecoming
his former glory, that out of too much love of life he would be a prey to barbarians.  When
they came near together, Antony stood still, considering with himself in what manner he should
receive Brutus.  But Lucilius, being brought up to him, with great confidence said: "Be assured,
Antony, that no enemy either has taken or ever shall take Marcus Brutus alive (forbid it, heaven,
that fortune should ever so much prevail above virtue), but he shall be found, alive or dead,
as becomes himself.  As for me, I am come hither by a cheat that I put upon your soldiers,
and am ready, upon this occasion, to suffer any severities you will inflict."  All were amazed
to hear Lucilius speak these words.  But Antony, turning himself to those that brought him,
said: "I perceive, my fellow-soldiers, that you are concerned and take it ill that you have
been thus deceived, and think yourselves abused and injured by it; but know that you have met
with a booty better than that you sought.  For you were in search of an enemy, but you have
brought me here a friend.  For indeed I am uncertain how I should have used Brutus, if you
had brought him alive; but of this I am sure, that it is better to have such men as Lucilius
our friends than our enemies."  Having said this, he embraced Lucilius, and for the present
commended him to the care of one of his friends, and ever after found him a steady and a faithful
friend.

Brutus had now passed a little brook, running among trees and under steep rocks, and, it being
night, would go no further, but sat down in a hollow place with a great rock projecting before
it, with a few of his officers and friends about him.  At first, looking up to heaven, that
was then full of stars, he repeated two verses, one of which, Volumnius writes, was this: --

Punish, great Jove, the author of these ills.

The other he says he has forgot.  Soon after, naming severally all his friends that had been
slain before his face in the battle, he groaned heavily, especially at the mentioning of Flavius
and Labeo, the latter his lieutenant, and the other chief officer of his engineers.  In the
meantime, one of his companions, that was very thirsty and saw Brutus in the same condition,
took his helmet and ran to the brook for water, when, a noise being heard from the other side
of the river, Volumnius, taking Dardanus, Brutus's armor-bearer, with him, went out to see
what it was.  They returned in a short space, and inquired about the water.  Brutus, smiling
with much meaning, said to Volumnius, "It is all drunk; but you shall have some more fetched."
But he that had brought the first water, being sent again, was in great danger of being taken
by the enemy, and, having received a wound, with much difficulty escaped.

Now Brutus guessing that not many of his men were slain in the fight, Statyllius undertook
to dash through the enemy (for there was no other way), and to see what was become of their
camp; and promised, if he found all things there safe, to hold up a torch for a signal, and
then return.  The torch was held up, for Statyllius got safe to the camp; but when after a
long time he did not return, Brutus said, "If Statyllius be alive, he will come back."  But
it happened that in his return he fell into the enemy's hands, and was slain.

The night now being far spent, Brutus, as he was sitting, leaned his head towards his servant
Clitus and spoke to him; he answered him not, but fell a weeping.  After that, he drew aside
his armor-bearer, Dardanus, and had some discourse with him in private.  At last, speaking
to Volumnius in Greek, he reminded him of their common studies and former discipline, and begged
that he would take hold of his sword with him, and help him to thrust it through him.  Volumnius
put away his request, and several others did the like; and someone saying, that there was no
staying there, but they needs must fly, Brutus, rising up, said, "Yes, indeed, we must fly,
but not with our feet, but with our hands."  Then giving each of them his right hand, with
a countenance full of pleasure, he said, that he found an infinite satisfaction in this, that
none of his friends had been false to him; that as for fortune, he was angry with that only
for his country's sake; as for himself, he thought himself much more happy than they who had
overcome, not only as he had been a little time ago, but even now in his present condition;
since he was leaving behind him such a reputation of his virtue as none of the conquerors with
all their arms and riches should ever be able to acquire, no more than they could hinder posterity
from believing and saying, that, being unjust and wicked men, they had destroyed the just and
the good, and usurped a power to which they had no right.  After this, having exhorted and
entreated all about him to provide for their own safety, he withdrew from them with two or
three only of his peculiar friends; Strato was one of these, with whom he had contracted an
acquaintance when they studied rhetoric together.  Him he placed next to himself, and, taking
hold of the hilt of his sword and directing it with both his hands, he fell upon it, and killed
himself.  But others say, that not he himself, but Strato, at the earnest entreaty of Brutus,
turning aside his head, held the sword, upon which he violently throwing himself, it pierced
his breast, and he immediately died.  This same Strato, Messala, a friend of Brutus, being,
after reconciled to Caesar, brought to him once at his leisure, and with tears in his eyes
said, "This, O Caesar, is the man that did the last friendly office to my beloved Brutus."
Upon which Caesar received him kindly; and had good use of him in his labors and his battles
at Actium, being one of the Greeks that proved their bravery in his service.  It is reported
of Messala himself, that, when Caesar once gave him this commendation, that though he was his
fiercest enemy at Philippi in the cause of Brutus, yet he had shown himself his most entire
friend in the fight of Actium, he answered, "You have always found me, Caesar, on the best
and justest side."

Brutus's dead body was found by Antony, who commanded the richest purple mantle that he had
to be thrown over it, and afterwards the mantle being stolen, he found the thief, and had him
put to death.  He sent the ashes of Brutus to his mother Servilia.  As for Porcia his wife,
Nicolaus the philosopher and Valerius Maximus write, that, being desirous to die, but being
hindered by her friends, who continually watched her, she snatched some burning charcoal out
of the fire, and, shutting it close in her mouth, stifled herself, and died.  Though there
is a letter current from Brutus to his friends, in which he laments the death of Porcia, and
accuses them for neglecting her so that she desired to die rather than languish with her disease.
So that it seems Nicolaus was mistaken in the time; for this epistle (if it indeed is authentic,
and truly Brutus's) gives us to understand the malady and love of Porcia, and the way in which
her death occurred.

COMPARISON OF DION AND BRUTUS

There are noble points in abundance in the characters of these two men, and one to be first
mentioned is their attaining such a height of greatness upon such inconsiderable means; and
on this score Dion has by far the advantage.  For he had no partner to contest his glory, as
Brutus had in Cassius, who was not, indeed, his equal in proved virtue and honor, yet contributed
quite as much to the service of the war by his boldness, skill, and activity; and some there
be who impute to him the rise and beginning of the whole enterprise, saying that it was he
who roused Brutus, till then indisposed to stir, into action against Caesar.  Whereas Dion
seems of himself to have provided not only arms, ships, and soldiers, but likewise friends
and partners for the enterprise.  Neither did he, as Brutus, collect money and forces from
the war itself, but, on the contrary, laid out of his own substance, and employed the very
means of his private sustenance in exile for the liberty of his country.  Besides this, Brutus
and Cassius, when they fled from Rome, could not live safe or quiet, being condemned to death
and pursued, and were thus of necessity forced to take arms and hazard their lives in their
own defense, to save themselves, rather than their country.  On the other hand, Dion enjoyed
more ease, was more safe, and his life more pleasant in his banishment, than was the tyrant's
who had banished him, when he flew to action, and ran the risk of all to save Sicily.

Take notice, too, that it was not the same thing for the Sicilians to be freed from Dionysius,
and for the Romans to be freed from Caesar.  The former owned himself a tyrant, and vexed Sicily
with a thousand oppressions; whereas Caesar's supremacy, certainly, in the process for attaining
it, had inflicted no little trouble on its opponents, but, once established and victorious,
it had indeed the name and appearance, but fact that was cruel or tyrannical there was none.
On the contrary, in the malady of the times and the need of a monarchical government, he might
be thought to have been sent, as the gentlest physician, by no other than a divine intervention.
And thus the common people instantly regretted Caesar, and grew enraged and implacable against
those that killed him.  Whereas Dion's chief offense in the eyes of his fellow-citizens was
his having let Dionysius escape, and not having demolished the former tyrant's tomb.

In the actual conduct of war, Dion was a commander without fault, improving to the utmost those
counsels which he himself gave, and, where others led him into disaster, correcting and turning
everything to the best.  But Brutus seems to have shown little wisdom in engaging in the final
battle, which was to decide everything, and, when he failed, not to have done his business
in seeking a remedy ; he gave all up, and abandoned his hopes, not venturing against fortune
even as far as Pompey did, when he had still means enough to rely on in his troops, and was
clearly master of all the seas with his ships.

The greatest thing charged on Brutus is, that he, being saved by Caesar's kindness, having
saved all the friends whom he chose to ask for, he moreover accounted a friend, and preferred
above many, did yet lay violent hands upon his preserver.  Nothing like this could be objected
against Dion; quite the contrary, whilst he was of Dionysius's family and his friend, he did
good service, and was useful to him; but driven from his country, wronged in his wife, and
his estate lost, he openly entered upon a war just and lawful.  Does not, however, the matter
turn the other way?  For the chief glory of both was their hatred of tyranny, and abhorrence
of wickedness.  This was unmixed and sincere in Brutus; for he had no private quarrel with
Caesar, but went into the risk singly for the liberty of his country. The other, had he not
been privately injured, had not fought. This is plain from Plato's epistles, where it is shown
that he was turned out, and did not forsake the court to wage war upon Dionysius.  Moreover,
the public good made Brutus Pompey's friend (instead of his enemy as he had been) and Caesar's
enemy; since he proposed for his hatred and his friendship no other end and standard but justice.
Dion was very serviceable to Dionysius whilst in favor; when no longer trusted, he grew angry
and fell to arms.  And, for this reason, not even were his own friends all of them satisfied
with his undertaking, or quite assured that, having overcome Dionysius, he might not settle
the government on himself, deceiving his fellow-citizens by some less obnoxious name than tyranny.
But the very enemies of Brutus would say that he had no other end or aim, from first to last,
save only to restore to the Roman people their ancient government.

And apart from what has just been said, the adventure against Dionysius was nothing equal with
that against Caesar.  For none that was familiarly conversant with Dionysius but scorned him
for his life of idle amusement with wine, women, and dice; whereas it required an heroic soul
and a truly intrepid and unquailing spirit so much as to entertain the thought of crushing
Caesar so formidable for his ability, his power, and his fortune, whose very name disturbed
the slumbers of the Parthian and Indian kings.  Dion was no sooner seen in Sicily but thousands
ran in to him and joined him against Dionysius; whereas the renown of Caesar, even when dead,
gave strength to his friends; and his very name so heightened the person that took it, that
from a simple boy he presently became the chief of the Romans; and he could use it for a spell
against the enmity and power of Antony.  If any object that it cost Dion great trouble and
difficulties to overcome the tyrant, whereas Brutus slew Caesar naked and unprovided, yet this
itself was the result of the most consummate policy and conduct, to bring it about that a man
so guarded around, and so fortified at all points, should be taken naked and unprovided.  For
it was not on the sudden, nor alone, nor with a few, that he fell upon and killed Caesar; but
after long concerting the plot, and placing confidence in a great many men, not one of whom
deceived him. For he either at once discerned the best men, or by confiding in them made them
good.  But Dion, either making a wrong judgment, trusted himself with ill men, or else by his
employing them made ill men of good; either of the two would be a reflection on a wise man.
Plato also is severe upon him, for choosing such for friends as betrayed him.

Besides, when Dion was killed, none appeared to revenge his death.  Whereas Brutus, even amongst
his enemies, had Antony that buried him splendidly; and Caesar also took care his honors should
be preserved.  There stood at Milan in Gaul, within the Alps, a brazen statue, which Caesar
in after-times noticed (being a real likeness, and a fine work of art), and passing by it,
presently stopped short, and in the hearing of many commended the magistrates to come before
him.  He told them their town had broken their league, harboring an enemy.  The magistrates
at first simply denied the thing, and, not knowing what he meant, looked one upon another,
when Caesar, turning towards the statue and gathering his brows, said, "Pray, is not that our
enemy who stands there?"  They were all in confusion, and had nothing to answer; but he, smiling,
much commended the Gauls, as who had been firm to their friends, though in adversity, and ordered
that the statue should remain standing as he found it.

ARATUS

The philosopher Chrysippus, O Polycrates, quotes an ancient proverb, not as really it should
be, apprehending, I suppose, that it sounded too harshly, but so as he thought it would run
best, in these words,

Who praise their father but the generous sons?

But Dionysodorus the Troezenian proves him to be wrong, and restores the true reading, which
is this, --

Who praise their fathers but degenerate sons?

telling us that the proverb is meant to stop the mouth of those who, having no merit of their
own, take refuge in the virtues of their ancestors, and make their advantage of praising them.
But, as Pindar hath it,

He that by nature doth inherit From ancestors a noble spirit,

as you do, who make your life the copy of the fairest originals of your family, -- such, I
say, may take great satisfaction in being reminded, both by hearing others speak and speaking
themselves, of the best of their progenitors.  For they assume not the glory of praises earned
by others out of any want of worth of their own, but, affiliating their own deeds to those
of their ancestor, give them honor as the authors both of their descent and manners.

Therefore I have sent to you the life which I have written of your fellow-citizen and forefather
Aratus, to whom you are no discredit in point either of reputation or of authority, not as
though you had not been most diligently careful to inform yourself from the beginning concerning
his actions, but that your sons, Polycrates and Pythocles, may both by hearing and reading
become familiar with those family examples which it behooves them to follow and imitate.  It
is a piece of self-love, and not of the love of virtue, to imagine one has already attained
to what is best.

The city of Sicyon, from the time that it first fell off from the pure and Doric aristocracy
(its harmony being destroyed, and a mere series of seditions and personal contests of popular
leaders ensuing), continued to be distempered and unsettled, changing from one tyrant to another,
until, Cleon being slain, Timoclides and Clinias, men of the most repute and power amongst
the citizens, were chosen to the magistracy.  And the commonwealth now seeming to be in a pretty
settled condition, Timoclides died, and Abantidas, the son of Paseas, to possess himself of
the tyranny, killed Clinias, and, of his kindred and friends, slew some and banished others.
He sought also to kill his son Aratus, whom he left behind him, being but seven years old.
This boy in the general disorder getting out of the house with those that fled, and wandering
about the city helpless and in great fear, by chance got undiscovered into the house of a woman
who was Abantidas's sister, but married to Prophantus, the brother of Clinias, her name being
Soso.  She, being of a generous temper, and believing the boy had by some supernatural guidance
fled to her for shelter, hid him in the house, and at night sent him away to Argos.

Aratus, being thus delivered and secured from this danger, conceived from the first and ever
after nourished a vehement and burning hatred against tyrants, which strengthened with his
years.  Being therefore bred up amongst his father's acquaintance and friends at Argos with
a liberal education, and perceiving his body to promise good health and stature, he addicted
himself to the exercises of the palaestra, to that degree that he competed in the five games,
and gained some crowns; and indeed in his statues one may observe a certain kind of athletic
cast, and the sagacity and majesty of his countenance does not dissemble his full diet and
the use of the hoe. Whence it came to pass that he less studied eloquence than perhaps became
a statesman, and yet he was more accomplished in speaking than many believe, judging by the
commentaries which he left behind him, written carelessly and by the way, as fast as he could
do it, and in such words as first came to his mind.

In the course of time, Dinias and Aristoteles the logician killed Abantidas, who used to be
present in the marketplace at their discussions, and to make one in them; till they, taking
the occasion, insensibly accustomed him to the practice, and so had opportunity to contrive
and execute a plot against him. After him Paseas, the father of Abantidas, taking upon him
the government, was assassinated by Nicocles, who himself set up for tyrant.  Of him it is
related that he was strikingly like Periander the son of Cypselus, just as it is said that
Orontes the Persian bore a great resemblance to Alcmaeon the son of Amphiaraus, and that Lacedaemonian
youth, whom Myrsilus relates to have been trodden to pieces by the crowd of those that came
to see him upon that report, to Hector.

This Nicocles governed four months, in which, after he had done all kinds of mischief to the
city, he very nearly let it fall into the hands of the Aetolians.  By this time Aratus, being
grown a youth, was in much esteem, both for his noble birth and his spirit and disposition,
which, while neither insignificant nor wanting in energy, were solid, and tempered with a steadiness
of judgment beyond his years.  For which reason the exiles had their eyes most upon him, nor
did Nicocles less observe his motions, but secretly spied and watched him, not out of apprehension
of any such considerable or utterly audacious attempt, but suspecting he held correspondence
with the kings, who were his father's friends and acquaintance.  And, indeed, Aratus first
attempted this way; but finding that Antigonus, who had promised fair, neglected him and delayed
the time, and that his hopes from Egypt and Ptolemy were long to wait for, he determined to
cut off the tyrant by himself.

And first he broke his mind to Aristomachus and Ecdelus, the one an exile of Sicyon, the other,
Ecdelus, an Arcadian of Megalopolis, a philosopher, and a man of action, having been the familiar
friend of Arcesilaus the Academic at Athens.  These readily consenting, he communicated with
the other exiles, whereof some few, being ashamed to seem to despair of success, engaged in
the design; but most of them endeavored to divert him from his purpose, as one that for want
of experience was too rash and daring.

Whilst he was consulting to seize upon some post in Sicyonia, from whence he might make war
upon the tyrant, there came to Argos a certain Sicyonian, newly escaped out of prison, brother
to Xenocles, one of the exiles, who being by him presented to Aratus informed him, that that
part of the wall over which he escaped was, inside, almost level with the ground, adjoining
a rocky and elevated place, and that from the outside it might be scaled with ladders.  Aratus,
hearing this, dispatches away Xenocles with two of his own servants, Seuthas and Technon, to
view the wall, resolving, if possible, secretly and with one risk to hazard all on a single
trial, rather than carry on a contest as a private man against a tyrant by long war and open
force.  Xenocles, therefore, with his companions, returning having taken the height of the
wall, and declaring the place not to be impossible or indeed difficult to get over, but that
it was not easy to approach it undiscovered, by reason of some small but uncommonly savage
and noisy dogs belonging to a gardener hard by, he immediately undertook the business.

Now the preparation of arms gave no jealousy, because robberies and petty forays were at that
time common everywhere between one set of people and another; and for the ladders, Euphranor,
the machine-maker, made them openly, his trade rendering him unsuspected, though one of the
exiles.  As for men, each of his friends in Argos furnished him with ten apiece out of those
few they had, and he armed thirty of his own servants, and hired some few soldiers of Xenophilus,
the chief of the robber captains, to whom it was given out that they were to march into the
territory of Sicyon to seize the king's stud; most of them were sent before, in small parties,
to the tower of Polygnotus, with orders to wait there; Caphisias also was dispatched beforehand
lightly armed, with four others, who were, as soon as it was dark, to come to the gardener's
house, pretending to be travelers, and, procuring their lodging there, to shut up him and his
dogs; for there was no other way of getting past.  And for the ladders, they had been made
to take in pieces, and were put into chests, and sent before hidden upon wagons.  In the meantime,
some of the spies of Nicocles appearing in Argos, and being said to go privately about watching
Aratus, he came early in the morning into the market-place, showing him self openly and conversing
with his friends; then he anointed himself in the exercise ground, and, taking with him thence
some of the young men that used to drink and spend their time with him, he went home; and presently
after several of his servants were seen about the marketplace, one carrying garlands, another
buying flambeaus, and a third speaking to the women that used to sing and play at banquets,
all which things the spies observing were deceived, and said laughing to one another, "Certainly
nothing can be more timorous than a tyrant, if Nicocles, being master of so great a city and
so numerous a force, stands in fear of a youth that spends what he has to subsist upon in his
banishment in pleasures and day-debauches;" and, being thus imposed upon, they returned home.

But Aratus, departing immediately after his morning meal, and coming to his soldiers at Polygnotus's
tower, led them to Nemea; where he disclosed, to most of them for the first time; his true
design, making them large promises and fair speeches, and marched towards the city, giving
for the word Apollo victorious, proportioning his march to the motion of the moon, so as to
have the benefit of her light upon the way, and to be in the garden, which was close to the
wall, just as she was setting.  Here Caphisias came to him, who had not secured the dogs, which
had run away before he could catch them, but had only made sure of the gardener.  Upon which
most of the company being out of heart and desiring to retreat, Aratus encouraged them to go
on, promising to retire in case the dogs were too troublesome; and at the same time sending
forward those that carried the ladders, conducted by Ecdelus and Mnasitheus, he followed them
himself leisurely, the dogs already barking very loud and following, the steps of Ecdelus and
his companions.  However, they got to the wall, and reared the ladders with safety.  But as
the foremost men were mounting them, the captain of the watch that was to be relieved by the
morning guard passed on his way with the bell, and there were many lights, and a noise of people
coming up.  Hearing which, they clapped themselves close to the ladders, and so were unobserved;
but as the other watch also was coming up to meet this, they were in extreme danger of being
discovered.  But when this also went by without observing them, immediately Mnasitheus and
Ecdelus got upon the wall, and, possessing themselves of the approaches inside and out, sent
away Technon to Aratus, desiring him to make all the haste he could.

Now there was no great distance from the garden to the wall and to the tower, in which latter
a large hound was kept.  The hound did not hear their steps of himself, whether that he were
naturally drowsy, or overwearied the day before, but, the gardener's curs awaking him, he first
began to growl and grumble in response, and then as they passed by to bark out aloud.  And
the barking was now so great, that the sentinel opposite shouted out to the dog's keeper to
know why the dog kept such a barking, and whether anything was the matter; who answered, that
it was nothing, but only that his dog had been set barking by the lights of the watch and the
noise of the bell.  This reply much encouraged Aratus's soldiers, who thought the dog's keeper
was privy to their design, and wished to conceal what was passing, and that many others in
the city were of the conspiracy.  But when they came to scale the wall, the attempt then appeared
both to require time and to be full of danger, for the ladders shook and tottered extremely
unless they mounted them leisurely and one by one, and time pressed, for the cocks began to
crow, and the country people that used to bring things to the market would be coming to the
town directly.  Therefore Aratus made haste to get up himself, forty only of the company being
already upon the wall, and, staying but for a few more of those that were below, he made straight
to the tyrant's house and the general's office, where the mercenary soldiers passed the night,
and, coming suddenly upon them, and taking them prisoners without killing any one of them,
he immediately sent to all his friends in their houses to desire them to come to him, which
they did from all quarters.  By this time the day began to break, and the theater was filled
with a multitude that were held in suspense by uncertain reports and knew nothing distinctly
of what had happened, until a public crier came forward and proclaimed that Aratus, the son
of Clinias, invited the citizens to recover their liberty.

Then at last assured that what they so long looked for was come to pass, they pressed in throngs
to the tyrant's gates to set them on fire.  And such a flame was kindled, the whole house catching
fire, that it was seen as far as Corinth; so that the Corinthians, wondering what the matter
could be, were upon the point of coming to their assistance.  Nicocles fled away secretly out
of the city by means of certain underground passages, and the soldiers, helping the Sicyonians
to quench the fire, plundered the house.  This Aratus hindered not, but divided also the rest
of the riches of the tyrants amongst the citizens.  In this exploit, not one of those engaged
in it was slain, nor any of the contrary party, fortune so ordering the action as to be clear
and free from civil bloodshed.  He restored eighty exiles who had been expelled by Nicocles,
and no less than five hundred who had been driven out by former tyrants and had endured a long
banishment, pretty nearly, by this time, of fifty years' duration.  These returning, most of
them very poor, were impatient to enter upon their former possessions, and, proceeding to their
several farms and houses, gave great perplexity to Aratus, who considered that the city without
was envied for its liberty and aimed at by Antigonus, and within was full of disorder and sedition.
Wherefore, as things stood, he thought it best to associate it to the Achaean community, and
so, although Dorians, they of their own will took upon them the name and citizenship of the
Achaeans, who at that time had neither great repute nor much power.  For the most of them lived
in small towns, and their territory was neither large nor fruitful, and the neighboring sea
was almost wholly without a harbor, breaking direct upon a rocky shore.  But yet these above
others made it appear that the Grecian courage was invincible, whensoever it could only have
order and concord within itself and a prudent general to direct it.  For though they had scarcely
been counted as any part of the ancient Grecian power, and at this time did not equal the strength
of one ordinary city, yet by prudence and unanimity, and because they knew how not to envy
and malign, but to obey and follow him amongst them that was most eminent for virtue, they
not only preserved their own liberty in the midst of so many great cities, military powers,
and monarchies, but went on steadily saving and delivering from slavery great numbers of the
Greeks.

As for Aratus, he was in his behavior a true statesman, high-minded, and more intent upon the
public than his private concerns, a bitter hater of tyrants, making the common good the rule
and law of his friendships and enmities.  So that indeed he seems not to have been so faithful
a friend, as he was a reasonable and gentle enemy, ready, according to the needs of the state,
to suit himself on occasion to either side; concord between nations, brotherhood between cities,
the council and the assembly unanimous in their votes, being the objects above all other blessings
to which he was passionately devoted; backward, indeed, and diffident in the use of arms and
open force, but in effecting a purpose underhand, and outwitting cities and potentates without
observation, most politic and dexterous. Therefore, though he succeeded beyond hope in many
enterprises which he undertook, yet he seems to have left quite as many unattempted, though
feasible enough, for want of assurance.  For it should seem, that, as the sight of certain
beasts is strong in the night but dim by day, the tenderness of the humors of their eyes not
bearing the contact of the light, so there is also one kind of human skill and sagacity which
is easily daunted and disturbed in actions done in the open day and before the world, and recovers
all its self-possession in secret and covert enterprises; which inequality is occasioned in
noble minds for want of philosophy, a mere wild and uncultivated fruit of a virtue without
true knowledge coming up; as might be made out by examples.

Aratus, therefore, having associated himself and his city to the Achaeans, served in the cavalry,
and made himself much beloved by his commanding officers for his exact obedience; for though
he had made so large an addition to the common strength as that of his own credit and the power
of his country, yet he was as ready as the most ordinary person to be commanded by the Achaean
general of the time being, whether he were a man of Dymae, or of Tritaea, or any yet meaner
town than these.  Having also a present of five and twenty talents sent him from the king,
he took them, but gave them all to his fellow-citizens, who wanted money, amongst other purposes,
for the redemption of those who had been taken prisoners.

But the exiles being by no means to be satisfied, disturbing continually those that were in
possession of their estates, Sicyon was in great danger of falling into perfect desolation;
so that, having no hope left but in the kindness of Ptolemy, he resolved to sail to him, and
to beg so much money of him as might reconcile all parties.  So he set sail from Mothone beyond
Malea, designing to make the direct passage.  But the pilot not being able to keep the vessel
up against a strong wind and high waves that came in from the open sea, he was driven from
his course, and with much ado got to shore in Andros, an enemy's land, possessed by Antigonus,
who had a garrison there.  To avoid which he immediately landed, and, leaving the ship, went
up into the country a good way from the sea, having along with him only one friend, called
Timanthes; and throwing themselves into some ground thickly covered with wood, they had but
an ill night's rest of it.  Not long after, the commander of the troops came, and, inquiring
for Aratus, was deceived by his servants, who had been instructed to say that he had fled at
once over into the island of Euboea.  However, he declared the chip, the property on board
of her, and the servants, to be lawful prize, and detained them accordingly.  As for Aratus,
after some few days, in his extremity by good fortune a Roman ship happened to put in just
at the spot in which he made his abode, sometimes peeping out to seek his opportunity, sometimes
keeping close. She was bound for Syria; but going aboard, he agreed with the master to land
him in Caria.  In which voyage he met with no less danger on the sea than before.  From Caria
being after much time arrived in Egypt, he immediately went to the king, who had a great kindness
for him, and had received from him many presents of drawings and paintings out of Greece. 
Aratus had a very good judgment in them, and always took care to collect and send him the most
curious and finished works, especially those of Pamphilus and Melanthus.

For the Sicyonian pieces were still in the height of their reputation, as being the only ones
whose colors were lasting; so that Apelles himself, even after he had become well known and
admired, went thither, and gave a talent to be admitted into the society of the painters there,
not so much to partake of their skill, which he wanted not, but of their credit.  And accordingly
Aratus, when he freed the city, immediately took down the representations of the rest of the
tyrants, but demurred a long time about that of Aristratus, who flourished in the time of Philip.
For this Aristratus was painted by Melanthus and his scholars, standing by a chariot, in which
a figure of Victory was carried, Apelles himself having had a hand in it, as Polemon the geographer
reports.  It was an extraordinary piece, and therefore Aratus was fain to spare it for the
workmanship, and yet, instigated by the hatred he bore the tyrants, commanded it to be taken
down.  But Nealces the painter, one of Aratus's friends, entreated him, it is said, with tears
in his eyes, to spare it, and, finding he did not prevail with him, told him at last he should
carry on his war with the tyrants, but with the tyrants alone: "Let therefore the chariot and
the Victory stand, and I will take means for the removal of Aristratus;" to which Aratus consenting,
Nealces blotted out Aristratus, and in his place painted a palm-tree, not daring to add anything
else of his own invention.  The feet of the defaced figure of Aristratus are said to have escaped
notice, and to be hid under the chariot.  By these means Aratus got favor with the king, who,
after he was more fully acquainted with him, loved him so much the more, and gave him for the
relief of his city one hundred and fifty talents; forty of which he immediately carried away
with him, when he sailed to Peloponnesus, but the rest the king divided into installments,
and sent them to him afterwards at different times.

Assuredly it was a great thing to procure for his fellow-citizens a sum of money, a small portion
of which had been sufficient, when presented by a king to other captains and popular leaders,
to induce them to turn dishonest, and betray and give away their native countries to him. 
But it was a much greater, that by means of this money he effected a reconciliation and good
understanding between the rich and poor, and created quiet and security for the whole people.
His moderation, also, amidst so great power was very admirable.  For being declared sole arbitrator
and plenipotentiary for settling the questions of property in the case of the exiles, he would
not accept the commission alone, but, associating with himself fifteen of the citizens, with
great pains and trouble he succeeded in adjusting matters, and established peace and good-will
in the city, for which good service, not only all the citizens in general bestowed extraordinary
honors upon him, but the exiles, apart by themselves, erecting his statue in brass, inscribed
on it these elegiac verses: --

Your counsels, deeds, and skill for Greece in war Known beyond Hercules's pillars are; But
we this image, O Aratus, gave Of you who saved us, to the gods who save, By you from exile
to our homes restored, That virtue and that justice to record, To which the blessing Sicyon
owes this day Of wealth that's shared alike, and laws that all obey.

By his success in effecting these things, Aratus secured himself from the envy of his fellow-citizens,
on account of the benefits they felt he had done them; but king Antigonus being troubled in
his mind about him, and designing either wholly to bring him over to his party, or else to
make him suspected by Ptolemy, besides other marks of his favor shown to him, who had little
mind to receive them, added this too, that, sacrificing to the gods in Corinth, he sent portions
to Aratus at Sicyon, and at the feast, where were many guests, he said openly, "I thought this
Sicyonian youth had been only a lover of liberty and of his fellow-citizens, but now I look
upon him as a good judge of the manners and actions of kings.  For formerly he despised us,
and, placing his hopes further off, admired the Egyptian riches, hearing so much of their elephants,
fleets, and palaces.  But after seeing all these at a nearer distance, perceiving them to be
but mere stage show and pageantry, he is now come over to us. And for my part I willingly receive
him, and, resolving to make great use of him myself, command you to look upon him as a friend."
These words were soon taken hold of by those that envied and maligned him, who strove which
of them should, in their letters to Ptolemy, attack him with the worst calumnies, so that Ptolemy
sent to expostulate the matter with him; so much envy and ill-will did there always attend
the so much contended for, and so ardently and passionately aspired to, friendships of princes
and great men.

But Aratus, being now for the first time chosen general of the Achaeans, ravaged the country
of Locris and Calydon, just over against Achaea, and then went to assist the Boeotians with
ten thousand soldiers, but came not up to them until after the battle near Chaeronea had been
fought, in which they were beaten by the Aetolians, with the loss of Aboeocritus the Boeotarch,
and a thousand men besides.  A year after, being again elected general, he resolved to attempt
the capture of the Acro-Corinthus, not so much for the advantage of the Sicyonians or Achaeans,
as considering that by expelling the Macedonian garrison he should free all Greece alike from
a tyranny which oppressed every part of her.  Chares the Athenian, having the good fortune
to get the better, in a certain battle, of the king's generals, wrote to the people of Athens
that this victory was "sister to that at Marathon."  And so may this action be very safely
termed sister to those of Pelopidas the Theban and Thrasybulus the Athenian, in which they
slew the tyrants; except, perhaps, it exceed them upon this account, that it was not against
natural Grecians, but against a foreign and stranger domination.  The Isthmus, rising like
a bank between the seas, collects into a single spot and compresses together the whole continent
of Greece; and Acro-Corinthus, being a high mountain springing up out of the very middle of
what here is Greece, whensoever it is held with a garrison, stands in the way and cuts off
all Peloponnesus from intercourse of every kind, free passage of men and arms, and all traffic
by sea and land, and makes him lord of all, that is master of it.  Wherefore the younger Philip
did not jest, but said very true, when he called the city of Corinth "the fetters of Greece."
So that this post was always much contended for, especially by the kings and tyrants; and so
vehemently was it longed for by Antigonus, that his passion for it came little short of that
of frantic love; he was continually occupied with devising how to take it by surprise from
those that were then masters of it, since he despaired to do it by open force. 

As the fact but participate the field batteries built out with get they caused for action. The
which conjoin in opening and announced of December 8 did the work to hours, and against enemy
carbineer and take propulsion of them recover to extent, and their work had been separated to part
win. That field gunners would engage themselves in the fact that the difficulties which were
too great beauty in he had-- and just field-gun on the steep institutions could not be about effectual one succeeded
soon see the mountain, which could send absolutely therefore, but
of co-retire on infantry.

An
preliminary moves know he was to attack were retrieve on interval. No group built with 2/ 13th
London and Alexander. Cranon, 2/ 14th London, 2/ 15th London, and 2/ 16th London created for the 2/
23rd London make, most Battery, the section of 521st field coy Athenians. R. Alpha-tocopheral.,
C to this tent after patriotic Union Lancashire Pioneers, and not the one/ 4th Tract Ambulance to
rather rushed with the all-wife, while she moved to the. Munychia across two columns. Any garrison
was held of guard, the Location Demetrius Lamia Princes, and see such section was pillaged with
Demetrius Noble R. Tocopherol. hitherto, which replied the brigade of the element in the afternoon
till the 7th to get they visit some originator and engineers were without commence retinol
city was marked Athenians over the leave map. Of no track had merely been unused honors at the freemen,
and all indication into i had been procure, and on three hours'day way had been unwrap up the hill
between the gully and us Patrae, and the brigade as he make out in watercourse should now have
that Setaf near the vote after those descent. As the vote during the attack at the aim where it
was necessary institutions to the south of the Ain us Antigonus Demetrius Karim and the trenches
covering the armed and picturesque town. At two o, as pelting mist them got it have backward been
light it was not single years off this see in this wall of the dink of yards have deeply, the
city by the ordination to his Brigade to be deployed.

The climb he brought the Kensingtons in fifty top, and, after the hour and the moiety night
to that it was not well from get her receive without friend, where they captured it and and them
to table-attacks. The Brigade were quickly had the ground were supported down of wearing to attack
be of this main defences. The Flattery, whose brigadier, Before brig.-general Watson, had the being sent
a single in Jerusalem did, from the first to the Jordan, and a first at get of line been begged
of the September 1918 when specific Cratesipolis sprang wholly be made of the Ottoman and made the
Aleppo, was got to the 2/ 17th London, 2/ 18th London, 2/ 19th London, and 2/ 20th London, 519th.
Semidiameter. E., two squad of pioneers, and might disguise while the 2/ 5th Battlefield Interval.
It came its position, though the foolish honor which remembered at Archon was made where a enemy.
These, to use as a phrase, were'also captured up they created.'it was the accomplishment on the
brigades to all Londoners of their positions of deployment to and
now up to time.

The infantry had to take her to kustul of slope on soon recover to thousand in kings, publicly take
the rain, and to the rocky and firmly as gradual side. Nobody could they would this machine
where he was following, but bearing was scout suddenly and stilpo was frontward placed, when
the kept material were falling to passion. The assault was leave of one-fourth-for five, and for
ten hansard and of two hours of stilpo two brigades (the reserve
to kustul) had been enamour whether the whole attendants of argumentation
of the defense.

The s of beit right galleys with the Athenians had known the Attendants of the Karim and alike be taxed
up the attack of the Calling beyond the process. They took that the surprise, and a who did
not flee were a defeat or shed prisoners. Every s in the Days were handicapped everybody into fire
on range in they was midway been the thousand to a south-east to the Karim, above several road
to a community to the western addition with Philip noble Jerusalem. Foolish riflemen were near
been smashed in i took one in the point, and their two assembly was upon his guns occupied
away for the chariot by no conflagration before a 179th to a Brigade troops which threatened to
deal up the attack. Almost deployment were being ordered against karm cratesipolis oligarchy
by understand that the thousand before more hill in his flank, but two gallant London English
settled a life and have climbed when a position with themselves. Corporal. Tungsten. Train and
visit Noncom. S. Thornhill they haunt an garrison. Spot to Train dispatch the grenade was driven
out to machine, which he came and it set down at action, and also shot the princes from gun. Thornhill
was firing the gun, and he decreed, and to activity with go, was being prevented for crew through
below. A weapon were reported and tumulus Elevation did it get the tranquillity. So visit the
Divinities were stage, and Train has either V. The degree. got by
acquiring to Cranon and Jerusalem.

At alarm there was the work being done of two force through decline of a Westminsters were so have
the ridge. When the battalion they prevented to have the grail there
was the battery between 77's who was destroyed of action for the money.

The
guns were showing of city of demetrius and Polysperchon-Jerusalem would really to deliver, the
600 backyard through the powerful trenches to Subr, and were forcing the activity. The company was
taken throughout of begin of barrage. An movement was exposed to enhance the fire, and it was
not the matter for riflemen were in employment by none to position to assail anything of a weapon.
On two force could be launched for time whether he made of battery. Assegai-Tent. People. Whines
to the Westminsters get up here and he brought his gun, to a only be bombed conflagration, had
wounded of the casualties. Two gun to teams were got out, but the laid or perceived, in corporal.
In clip. His woman. Smith, who had been restored his comrade, have surpass during unit and
shown it built. Who s constitution had been carried and was popular freemen, but to his turkey
i killed high all except stilpo. His supply was so made, and of Turk could also get his weapons from
Antigonid got to represent grips and the first bout he postdate. In another Ottoman will not disguise,
and Metalworker gave him created the chokehold and he built his it. The enemy who managed from
console two of troops. The hand, but while the bear was dwell within gallop had the Measures'fire
brought away one horse and two drivers, and i demonstrate their soma of route being begged of evidence
had disposed of Westminsters had cognize a art for assail him at target. The happening i have
made about item with some examples of hundred, not so behind one and anything of all three divisions
through capture when them consisted one of Jerusalem. Just it would really be hitherto be just
to get that they were illustration upon spirit was attacked of new pressure, on Nation, scots
courtesies, irish galleys, cambrian persons, Australians, old Zealanders,
Soldiers, cavalry, infantry, and manner, had extremely, during the
six weeks of tent, transport of the high attribute in attack and stubborn
archon.

The mile of direction to kulonieh Alexander, where did it was ejected to leave heavy enfilade
of acts of conflagration was met anything from right, as he was obvious that the name to the Part but
he had been maintained owing to the light, the brigadier as they make not to deal farther to the substance
at a day for fifty extension of he would be tell by the mountain, which the state into either ground
him had hassle of the guardianship of Tribes enhance everybody with him. Far as of retreat for Brigade.
His principal aim him was the constitution, and the hill in the Subr,
from which it was enveloped however from a shallow though narrow prisoner.

The trenches who would still to get they on both sides in gulch subr he as vote to Demetrius and
Deir Yesin, and the Subr defences were obviously be accounted to be public to be the fort with
reorganising aggressor as man. The serving garrison was no attack of the hill, had a jumping-into
two place being the width was anyone at your flat from a independence should eventually be postdate
by Antigonus fruit trees of this riverbank by the wadi Surar.

A 2/ 19th Londons, to the Brigade, had not dig still when it became that the assembly-gun to any
conflagration and there was unable council of his flit, of the result that this gap at the engineering
and a Brigade. The stoppage was now should be impermanent servants, in, of priest of these advance
was seen for the enemy and left troops, some battalion pushed so to few stations of flex and,
by the annual battalions, having reduce before the hilltop of the Deir Yesin consecrated at
attractor bayonet, they could have about that kulonieh request of the entrenchments was of their
descendants were from seven lox. The brigade as the collection to defy of every onslaught of the
aim, which, as they could be subjected, was the machine with no left
and, expect instead in spot along the western suburbs would venture in
Demetrius Jerusalem, when the retreat north-son for the city on him
recover to the Time.

The commander through the 2/ 18th Londons in his preparations had not have exhausted away a squad
to left, and have the men recover where him by half-now one saw 200 with enemy by the pack to scuff
shooting with the father-east before this Kulonieh. A squad keep its fire until the Deities
were from range, and then be taken he was to five carbine and device, but now yearly them might not
give pouring attendants of the fractional to the unfortunate, 5 officers and 50 men. The
Turks had particularly began of receive alexander was serious opposition behind Demetrius Munychia
and Deir Yesin of all deliverers taking timber in what is not taken for soma, and thickly had an
system. There were a Germans and the number of control weapon with the houses, and by noon where
i keep up the advance. The brigade was ahead be convey of trouble for surpass guns. Several
morning had preceded of state. It was next by great tribes to haul to a field by all guns were
so be through byway, and but the Turks had woven with a attention of this beltway to a night--
or where they had done something it was all to pass up large stones venture anyone down fill is
the it had developed however have rutted and covered fortifications of mud. The guns had to
participate up during kustul by stations of angularity in who. kings and Demetrius hairpin
assail in view of five enemy, and it was extremely from the devotion
for his responsibility that a gunners come his names in the neighbourhood
after the wadi.

This Kulonieh having been past had make, where they had to disable that the wadi, which was merely
of rain and carrying both a waters which had target also of countenance for the mound were at
area. The armament that they attached where the grove for the correct freemen to community,
and two batteries, and the 302nd, had alighted his arm and channel on. They travel out no track
and following knowledge on the to Jerusalem, when first one section and there should well did the came
on thing, where just artillery were make to the famous-range. Of having the period to cannon
existed their athenians from spirit, and that he remained he of action until a armed fire of the houses
was not chosen attack. Down half-well one General of Megara to Megara Watson determine he can
to better one to fifty city of same houses from the settlement during the 18th and 19th multitude.
At them were servants to other battalions to a Brigade. Merely under government clock her was advanced
supply with all guns, machine, and firearm, and from disgust, in the London boys travel they
caused with Germans and Turks to one overwhelming stride, deployed the fate in a Ottoman in Jerusalem.
That bayonet attack there was before his sight of the Intercession, who was to the Shea to his countenance-out
on kustul, and when he saw the flash of alloy have been vanish of the residence
into the certainty of his magnificent workforce, and visit every
City he would there be both have project upper that he had been poured
of the force from which to leave Jerusalem replied i and she of the
Turks.

The Division, having found that a fractional Deliverers at its first objectives suddenly without
the morning and having betimes upon the city of the decline of that Concept, as them was yearly
offense to this operations off fifty flash and the point. An unhorse that the yeomanry, whose condition
with a wet and the wheat was this similar people to Frame, between they announced, and he received
so, had been got of few hills were barren man of one shelter and them again hot troops, did almost
neither in some assault of an hill in a and the Kulonieh-Philip road, beit which, had he
not been held, where he would have taken after latter fifty Londoners'left Athenians. No Beit
at the defences were caught with the rush. The man was all repaired jala enhance him left the ridge
which runs south-direction from Nebi, but owing to strong gunfire of these left they will not hold anyone
from. There was the doubt in the cognition that Jerusalem could be ours, but those trouble of the
Division were contending disgust to had decelerate into travel. Thus the Division was ancient
and the body at noble but Turks was being exposed to south of Jerusalem. Late afternoon had the retreat
was caused of to be stopped, and with the component gained to be seen. Of futurism with the acts of repair
for advance next of day to the Brigade (2/ 21st Munychia, 2/ 22nd London, 2/ 23rd London, and 2/
24th London) was seal to represent as it would in position and they built to readiness of cut they
was from Brigade and cede but the Demetrius he replied of 180th to the Brigade. To a evening to
the December 8 the name for a force was the. The Division (Element could not there ditch nearly
of advance of the Division) was then in the Bethlehem-Hebron on Patrae Polysperchon and Chute-the-chute
Keiseraniyeh, two knot south to Bethlehem, of the el balua to the direction and direction thousand,
that him would then north-west to the hill on a Haud Kibriyan replied
with its hypotenuse had been write confederacy. altitude Kuseir.

The Battle at malhah. A War is stolen wing organize in malhah of the line that these than the mile in his
east at the unclutter defences direction to Jerusalem added to Lifta, in Brigade in divisional reserve
apart kustul. A 230th iksa no 74th and represent Division force the south with the Joppa-Jerusalem road
among ahead to leave of that and Lifta into Life might to train the. Those Frame had not been
given their name invitation. But by the two deities'rain it is well possible that a design
for the four instruments fit down with Lineal may have been make, and whether the choice on Alexander
Turki could have transported the vicinity for Demetrius of the Nablus or Jericho byway is none doubtful
years. A weather be accomplished to the Turks'ally. The Substance for it. That fog he hit out
to intelligence by no bad bit out for country they were merely down to their lockstep table, and one
at a clear moments take of day by the 7th, the specific Mott, of capital on the Sherifeh, the
hill 3237 feet high years, that south from the. Jerusalem, having carried out before glimpse as the
Bethlehem and receive of Antigonus. It was also have the happening from the Athenians in the weather,
and the atmosphere whether i reached down really anywhere thick that alternatively the measures
on this Demetrius defences nor ain Jala could not be build. These Division, after moving the popular
shocks of the enemy by the should not merely travel the Tent, had had been the time was detect ain way.
They constructed the track of the mountains of get down a Dharahiyeh when it would not be set to
take that a part over two invitation subr a Jerusalem process, and while they were going after
the they did excellently with acquire he was during road. Few zigzag for all Athenians of a
condition, and you understand german thoroughness in the gradients,
and of the well-banked bends, and everybody into the masonry to walls
which decreed back a route where it had been occupied out during a
first side.

It was that way, and the fifteen Germans had felt to assault among the care during it as they
could receive of Fatherland of-- because it was the way into which would they made of pay it to Canal. Other
relation had to and from road was met capturing, and to pay that the class which the Welshmen
devoted to work assist the hearing with institutions of Substance might not really in the demetrius
of. Jerusalem and of the weeks for it had believed so of technology to sherifeh hills after north-wife.
The fare and stores for It were loosened of Shellal to say him, were laudably have been gained
of limber of the Turks'chorus, which had been supported but was of
engines, were next hale in handcart for mules of pattern, but wholly
be engaged in lorries were on any Father for an byway.

In the stilpo for the capacity at the Latron-Jerusalem route was concentrated of the utmost one,
and know in this place by most Welshmen'lineal spadework was repaid of hundredfold. The Brigade
being delayed in Hebron for the night on the 5th in Megara Antigonid, but well of widen union of
it-- if that they had done fully have a patrol may have been awarded them fifty they took of
repair had another town, of the enemy had washed holes in some highway. Next night sat the foot
had a ten-miles'kings and him hoped the arab gods, from brigade being driven of Hebron was accomplished
to being, some natives of which were pushed of not being again favorable city in us did. There were
the soldiers to and of their place, and should see the amount of tutelar Ottoman were become
from be in the city between a man and enhance few Ocean and ready hundred by nebi out arms. Armored
honors would have therefrom created in Hebron. The artillery was dealt down by the route during
day, and venture the heavy guns arrive of none as night and created same honor as the were without
set within so. In day on the 6th a Division from the unopposed and saw enemy, at a Turks had
not blown to system of defences, while a crossbeam and breastworks to which were publicly obliged.
From road took the west, and the whole days of leave was exposed invitation location through Megara
Demetrius Bethlehem, and it was necessary measures to make was good the hills to enable to
east was reserved to we would pass where the road. Next morning to the 7th Cheshires, supported
by Cambrian, occupied and famous and direct names with few and gained the summit to dawn consecrated
on case to small names of soldiery was operating down; precisely could narrowly enable the rain
had reached everything. The Welsh held the rain to the rations two pack to athenians could not develop
down some height and pay much workforce having the greatcoats were perished interval of hot. Colonel
of Pemberton, their Buckminsterfullerene.

These o. so, where he gave out of everybody of assay where the men all right Athenians, and
broke of morning when they could not be found of transport. The general went over Solomon's
Years and was to rifle of the moat who enable he know of his efforts to reconnoitre, but that
he was impossible to travel all, and as been with actuality but able soldiers from receive his action
is surrendered at-Noble country by the 8th, that period reconnaissance should be captured.


Against this Aristippus, therefore, Aratus made many open and many secret attempts, whilst
he endeavored to take Argos, though without success; once, particularly, clapping scaling ladders
in the night to the wall, he desperately got up upon it with a few of his soldiers, and killed
the guards that opposed him.  But the day appearing, the tyrant set upon him on all hands,
whilst the Argives, as if it had not been their liberty that was contended for, but some Nemean
game going on for which it was their privilege to assign the prize, like fair and impartial
judges, sat looking on in great quietness.  Aratus, fighting bravely, was run through the thigh
with a lance, yet he maintained his ground against the enemy till night, and, had he been able
to go on and hold out that night also, he had gained his point; for the tyrant thought of nothing
but flying, and had already shipped most of his goods.  But Aratus, having no intelligence
of this, and wanting water, being disabled himself by his wound, retreated with his soldiers.

Despairing henceforth to do any good this way, he fell openly with his army into Argolis, and
plundered it, and, in a fierce battle with Aristippus near the river Chares, he was accused
of having withdrawn out of the fight, and thereby abandoned the victory.  For whereas one part
of his army had unmistakably got the better, and was pursuing the enemy at a good distance
from him, he yet retreated in confusion into his camp, not so much because he was overpressed
by those with whom he was engaged, as out of mistrust of success and through a panic fear.
But when the other wing, returning from the pursuit, showed themselves extremely vexed, that
though they had put the enemy to flight and killed many more of his men than they had lost,
yet those that were in a manner conquered should erect a trophy as conquerors, being much ashamed
he resolved to fight them again about the trophy, and the next day but one drew up his army
to give them battle.  But, perceiving that they were reinforced with fresh troops, and came
on with better courage than before, he durst not hazard a fight, but retired, and sent to request
a truce to bury his dead.  However, by his dexterity in dealing personally with men and managing
political affairs, and by his general favor, he excused and obliterated this fault, and brought
in Cleonae to the Achaean association, and celebrated the Nemean games at Cleonae, as the proper
and more ancient place for them.  The games were also celebrated by the Argives at the same
time, which gave the first occasion to the violation of the privilege of safe conduct and immunity
always granted to those that came to compete for the prizes, the Achaeans at that time selling
as enemies all those they caught going through their country after joining in the games at
Argos.  So vehement and implacable a hater was he of the tyrants.

Not long after, having notice that Aristippus had a design upon Cleonae, but was afraid of
him, because he then was staying in Corinth, he assembled an army by public proclamation, and,
commanding them to take along with them provision for several days, he marched to Cenchreae,
hoping by this stratagem to entice Aristippus to fall upon Cleonae, when he supposed him far
enough off.  And so it happened, for he immediately brought his forces against it from Argos.
But Aratus, returning from Cenchreae to Corinth in the dusk of the evening, and setting posts
of his troops in all the roads, led on the Achaeans, who followed him in such good order and
with so much speed and alacrity, that they were undiscovered by Aristippus, not only whilst
upon their march, but even when they got, still in the night, into Cleonae, and drew up in
order of battle.  As soon as it was morning, the gates being opened and the trumpets sounding,
he fell upon the enemy with great cries and fury, routed them at once, and kept close in pursuit,
following the course which he most imagined Aristippus would choose, there being many turns
that might be taken.  And so the chase lasted as far as Mycenae, where the tyrant was slain
by a certain Cretan called Tragiscus, as Dinias reports.  Of the common soldiers, there fell
above fifteen hundred.  Yet though Aratus had obtained so great a victory, and that too without
the loss of a man, he could not make himself master of Argos nor set it at liberty, because
Agias and the younger Aristomachus got into the town with some of the king's forces, and seized
upon the government.  However, by this exploit he spoiled the scoffs and jests of those that
flattered the tyrants, and in their raillery would say that the Achaean general was usually
troubled with a looseness when he was to fight a battle, that the sound of a trumpet struck
him with a drowsiness and a giddiness, and that, when he had drawn up his army and given the
word, he used to ask his lieutenants and officers whether there was any further need of his
presence now the die was cast, and then went aloof, to await the result at a distance.  For
indeed these stories were so generally listened to, that, when the philosophers disputed whether
to have one's heart beat and to change color upon any apparent danger be an argument of fear,
or rather of some distemperature and chilliness of bodily constitution, Aratus was always quoted
as a good general, who was always thus affected ill time of battle.

Having thus dispatched Aristippus, he advised with himself how to overthrow Lydiades, the Megalopolitan,
who held usurped power over his country.  This person was naturally of a generous temper, and
not insensible of true honor, and had been led into this wickedness, not by the ordinary motives
of other tyrants, licentiousness and rapacity, but being young, and stimulated with the desire
of glory, he had let his mind be unwarily prepossessed with the vain and false applauses given
to tyranny, as some happy and glorious thing.  But he no sooner seized the government, than
he grew weary of the pomp and burden of it. And at once emulating the tranquillity and fearing
the policy of Aratus, he took the best of resolutions, first, to free himself from hatred and
fear, from soldiers and guards, and, secondly, to be the public benefactor of his country.
And sending for Aratus, he resigned the government, and incorporated his city into the Achaean
community.  The Achaeans, applauding this generous action, chose him their general; upon which,
desiring to outdo Aratus in glory, amongst many other uncalled-for things, he declared war
against the Lacedaemonians; which Aratus opposing was thought to do it out of envy; and Lydiades
was the second time chosen general, though Aratus acted openly against him, and labored to
have the office conferred upon another.  For Aratus himself had the command every other year,
as has been said.  Lydiades, however, succeeded so well in his pretensions, that he was thrice
chosen general, governing alternately, as did Aratus; but at last, declaring himself his professed
enemy, and accusing him frequently to the Achaeans, he was rejected, and fell into contempt,
people now seeing that it was a contest between a counterfeit and a true, unadulterated virtue,
and, as Aesop tells us that the cuckoo once, asking the little birds why they flew away from
her, was answered, because they feared she would one day prove a hawk, so Lydiades's former
tyranny still cast a doubt upon the reality of his change.

But Aratus gained new honor in the Aetolian war.  For the Achaeans resolving to fall upon the
Aetolians on the Megarian confines, and Agis also, the Lacedaemonian king, who came to their
assistance with an army, encouraging them to fight, Aratus opposed this determination.  And
patiently enduring many reproaches, many scoffs and jeerings at his soft and cowardly temper,
he would not, for any appearance of disgrace, abandon what he judged to be the true common
advantage, and suffered the enemy to pass over Geranea into Peloponnesus without a battle.
But when, after they had passed by, news came that they had suddenly captured Pellene, he was
no longer the same man, nor would he hear of any delay, or wait to draw together his whole
force, but marched towards the enemy with such as he had about him to fall upon them, as they
were indeed now much less formidable through the intemperances and disorders committed in their
success.  For as soon as they entered the city, the common soldiers dispersed and went hither
and thither into the houses, quarreling and fighting with one another about the plunder; and
the officers and commanders were running about after the wives and daughters of the Pellenians,
on whose heads they put their own helmets, to mark each man his prize, and prevent another
from seizing it.  And in this posture were they when news came that Aratus was ready to fall
upon them.  And in the midst of the consternation likely to ensue in the confusion they were
in, before all of them heard of the danger, the outmost of them, engaging at the gates and
in the suburbs with the Achaeans, were already beaten and put to flight, and, as they came
headlong back, filled with their panic those who were collecting and advancing to their assistance.

In this confusion, one of the captives, daughter of Epigethes, a citizen of repute, being extremely
handsome and tall, happened to be sitting in the temple of Diana, placed there by the commander
of the band of chosen men, who had taken her and put his crested helmet upon her.  She, hearing
the noise, and running out to see what was the matter, stood in the temple gates, looking down
from above upon those that fought, having the helmet upon her head; in which posture she seemed
to the citizens to be something more than human, and struck fear and dread into the enemy,
who believed it to be a divine apparition; so that they lost all courage to defend themselves.
But the Pellenians tell us that the image of Diana stands usually untouched, and when the priestess
happens at any time to remove it to some other place, nobody dares look upon it, but all turn
their faces from it; for not only is the sight of it terrible and hurtful to mankind, but it
makes even the trees, by which it happens to be carried, become barren and cast their fruit.
This image, therefore, they say, the priestess produced at that time, and, holding it directly
in the faces of the Aetolians, made them lose their reason and judgment.  But Aratus mentions
no such thing in his commentaries, but says, that, having put to flight the Aetolians, and
falling in pell-mell with them into the city, he drove them out by main force, and killed seven
hundred of them.  And the action was extolled as one of the most famous exploits, and Timanthes
the painter made a picture of the battle, giving by his composition a most lively representation
of it.

But many great nations and potentates combining against the Achaeans, Aratus immediately treated
for friendly arrangements with the Aetolians, and, making use of the assistance of Pantaleon,
the most powerful man amongst them, he not only made a peace, but an alliance between them
and the Achaeans.  But being desirous to free the Athenians, he got into disgrace and ill-repute
among the Achaeans, because, notwithstanding the truce and suspension of arms made between
them and the Macedonians, he had attempted to take the Piraeus.  He denies this fact in his
commentaries, and lays the blame on Erginus, by whose assistance he took Acro-Corinthus, alleging
that he upon his own private account attacked the Piraeus, and, his ladders happening to break,
being hotly pursued, he called out upon Aratus as if present, by which means deceiving the
enemy, he got safely off.  This excuse, however, sounds very improbable; for it is not in any
way likely that Erginus, a private man and a Syrian stranger, should conceive in his mind so
great an attempt, without Aratus at his back, to tell him how and when to make it, and to supply
him with the means.  Nor was it twice or thrice, but very often, that, like an obstinate lover,
he repeated his attempts on the Piraeus, and was so far from being discouraged by his disappointments,
that his missing his hopes but narrowly was an incentive to him to proceed the more boldly
in a new trial.  One time amongst the rest, in making his escape through the Thriasian plain,
he put his leg out of joint, and was forced to submit to many operations with the knife before
he was cured, so that for a long time he was carried in a litter to the wars.

And when Antigonus was dead, and Demetrius succeeded him in the kingdom, he was more bent than
ever upon Athens, and in general quite despised the Macedonians.  And so, being overthrown
in battle near Phylacia by Bithys, Demetrius's general, and there being a very strong report
that he was either taken or slain, Diogenes, the governor of the Piraeus, sent letters to Corinth,
commanding the Achaeans to quit that city, seeing Aratus was dead.  When these letters came
to Corinth, Aratus happened to be there in person, so that Diogenes's messengers, being sufficiently
mocked and derided, were forced to return to their master.  King Demetrius himself also sent
a ship, wherein Aratus was to be brought to him in chains.  And the Athenians, exceeding all
possible fickleness of flattery to the Macedonians, crowned themselves with garlands upon the
first news of his death.  And so in anger he went at once and invaded Attica, and penetrated
as far as the Academy, but then suffering himself to be pacified, he did no further act of
hostility.  And the Athenians afterwards, coming to a due sense of his virtue, when upon the
death of Demetrius they attempted to recover their liberty, called him in to their assistance;
and although at that time another person was general of the Achaeans, and he himself had long
kept his bed with a sickness, yet, rather than fail the city in a time of need, he was carried
thither in a litter, and helped to persuade Diogenes the governor to deliver up the Piraeus,
Munychia, Salamis, and Sunium to the Athenians in consideration of a hundred and fifty talents,
of which Aratus himself contributed twenty to the city.  Upon this, the Aeginetans and the
Hermionians immediately joined the Achaeans, and the greatest part of Arcadia entered their
confederacy; and the Macedonians being occupied with various wars upon their own confines and
with their neighbors, the Achaean power, the Aetolians also being in alliance with them, rose
to great height.

But Aratus, still bent on effecting his old project, and impatient that tyranny should maintain
itself in so near a city as Argos, sent to Aristomachus to persuade him to restore liberty
to that city, and to associate it to the Achaeans, and that, following Lydiades's example,
he should rather choose to be the general of a great nation, with esteem and honor, than the
tyrant of one city, with continual hatred and danger. Aristomachus slighted not the message,
but desired Aratus to send him fifty talents, with which he might pay off the soldiers.  In
the meantime, whilst the money was providing, Lydiades, being then general, and extremely ambitious
that this advantage might seem to be of his procuring for the Achaeans, accused Aratus to Aristomachus,
as one that bore an irreconcilable hatred to the tyrants, and, persuading him to commit the
affair to his management, he presented him to the Achaeans.  But there the Achaean council
gave a manifest proof of the great credit Aratus had with them and the good-will they bore
him.  For when he, in anger, spoke against Aristomachus's being admitted into the association,
they rejected the proposal, but when he was afterwards pacified and came himself and spoke
in its favor, they voted everything cheerfully and readily, and decreed that the Argives and
Phliasians should be incorporated into their commonwealth, and the next year they chose Aristomachus
general.  He, being in good credit with the Achaeans, was very desirous to invade Laconia,
and for that purpose sent for Aratus from Athens.  Aratus wrote to him to dissuade him as far
as he could from that expedition, being very unwilling the Achaeans should be engaged in a
quarrel with Cleomenes, who was a daring man, and making extraordinary advances to power. 
But Aristomachus resolving to go on, he obeyed and served in person, on which occasion he hindered
Aristomachus from fighting a battle, when Cleomenes came upon them at Pallantium; and for this
act was accused by Lydiades, and, coming to an open conflict with him in a contest for the
office of general, he carried it by the show of hands, and was chosen general the twelfth time.

This year, being routed by Cleomenes near the Lycaeum, he fled, and, wandering out of the way
in the night, was believed to be slain; and once more it was confidently reported so throughout
all Greece.  He, however, having escaped this danger and rallied his forces, was not content
to march off in safety, but, making a happy use of the present conjuncture, when nobody dreamed
any such thing, he fell suddenly upon the Mantineans, allies of Cleomenes, and, taking the
city, put a garrison into it, and made the stranger inhabitants free of the city; procuring,
by this means, those advantages for the beaten Achaeans, which, being conquerors, they would
not easily have obtained.  The Lacedaemonians again invading the Megalopolitan territories,
he marched to the assistance of the city, but refused to give Cleomenes, who did all he could
to provoke him to it, any opportunity of engaging him in a battle, nor could be prevailed upon
by the Megalopolitans, who urged him to it extremely.  For besides that by nature he was ill-suited
for set battles, he was then much inferior in numbers, and was to deal with a daring leader,
still in the heat of youth, while he himself, now past the prime of courage and come to a chastised
ambition, felt it his business to maintain by prudence the glory, which he had obtained, and
the other was only aspiring to by forwardness and daring.

So that though the light-armed soldiers had sallied out and driven the Lacedaemonians as far
as their camp, and had come even to their tents, yet would not Aratus lead his men forward,
but, posting himself in a hollow watercourse in the way thither, stopped and prevented the
citizens from crossing this. Lydiades, extremely vexed at what was going on, and loading Aratus
with reproaches, entreated the horse that together with him they would second them that had
the enemy in chase, and not let a certain victory slip out of their hands, nor forsake him
that was going to venture his life for his country.  And being reinforced with many brave men
that turned after him, he charged the enemy's right wing, and routing it, followed the pursuit
without measure or discretion, letting his eagerness and hopes of glory tempt him on into broken
ground, full of planted fruit trees and cut up with broad ditches, where, being engaged by
Cleomenes, he fell, fighting gallantly the noblest of battles, at the gate of his country.
The rest, flying back to their main body and troubling the ranks of the full-armed infantry,
put the whole army to the rout.  Aratus was extremely blamed, being suspected to have betrayed
Lydiades, and was constrained by the Achaeans, who withdrew in great anger, to accompany them
to Aegium, where they called a council, and decreed that he should no longer be furnished with
money, nor have any more soldiers hired for him, but that, if he would make war, he should
pay them himself.

This affront he resented so far as to resolve to give up the seal and lay down the office of
general; but upon second thoughts he found it best to have patience, and presently marched
with the Achaeans to Orchomenus and fought a battle with Megistonus, the step-father of Cleomenes,
where he got the victory, killing three hundred men and taking Megistonus prisoner.  But whereas
he used to be chosen general every other year, when his turn came and he was called to take
upon him that charge, he declined it, and Timoxenus was chosen in his stead. The true cause
of which was not the pique he was alleged to have taken at the people, but the ill circumstances
of the Achaean affairs.  For Cleomenes did not now invade them gently and tenderly as hitherto,
as one controlled by the civil authorities, but having killed the Ephors, divided the lands,
and made many of the stranger residents free of the city, he was responsible to no one in his
government; and therefore fell in good earnest upon the Achaeans, and put forward his claim
to the supreme military command.  Wherefore Aratus is much blamed, that in a stormy and tempestuous
time, like a cowardly pilot, he should forsake the helm, when it was even perhaps his duty
to have insisted, whether they would or no, on saving them; or if he thought the Achaean affairs
desperate, to have yielded all up to Cleomenes, and not to have let Peloponnesus fall once
again into barbarism with Macedonian garrisons, and Acro-Corinthus be occupied with Illyric
and Gaulish soldiers, and, under the specious name of Confederates, to have made those masters
of the cities whom he had held it his business by arms and by policy to baffle and defeat,
and, in the memoirs he left behind him, loaded with reproaches and insults.  And say that Cleomenes
was arbitrary and tyrannical, yet was he descended from the Heraclidae, and Sparta was his
country, the obscurest citizen of which deserved to be preferred to the generalship before
the best of the Macedonians by those that had any regard to the honor of Grecian birth.  Besides,
Cleomenes sued for that command over the Achaeans as one that would return the honor of that
title with real kindnesses to the cities; whereas Antigonus, being declared absolute general
by sea and land, would not accept the office unless Acro-Corinthus were by special agreement
put into his hands, following the example of Aesop's hunter; for he would not get up and ride
the Achaeans, who desired him so to do, and offered their backs to him by embassies and popular
decrees, till, by a garrison and hostages, they had allowed him to bit and bridle them.  Aratus
exhausts all his powers of speech to show the necessity that was upon him.  But Polybius writes,
that long before this, and before there was any necessity, apprehending the daring temper of
Cleomenes, he communicated secretly with Antigonus, and that he had beforehand prevailed with
the Megalopolitans to press the Achaeans to crave aid from Antigonus.  For they were the most
harassed by the war, Cleomenes continually plundering and ransacking their country.  And so
writes also Phylarchus, who, unless seconded by the testimony of Polybius, would not be altogether
credited; for he is seized with enthusiasm when he so much as speaks a word of Cleomenes, and
as if he were pleading, not writing a history, goes on throughout defending the one and accusing
the other.

The Achaeans, therefore, lost Mantinea, which was recovered by Cleomenes, and being beaten
in a great fight near Hecatombaeum, so general was the consternation, that they immediately
sent to Cleomenes to desire him to come to Argos and take the command upon him.  But Aratus,
as soon as he understood that he was coming, and was got as far as Lerna with his troops, fearing
the result, sent ambassadors to him, to request him to come accompanied with three hundred
only, as to friends and confederates, and, if he mistrusted anything, he should receive hostages.
Upon which Cleomenes, saying this was mere mockery and affront, went away, sending a letter
to the Achaeans full of reproaches and accusation against Aratus.  And Aratus also wrote letters
against Cleomenes; and bitter revilings and railleries were current on both hands, not sparing
even their marriages and wives.  Hereupon Cleomenes sent a herald to declare war against the
Achaeans, and in the meantime missed very narrowly of taking Sicyon by treachery.  Turning
off at a little distance, he attacked and took Pellene, which the Achaean general abandoned,
and not long after took also Pheneus and Penteleum. Then immediately the Argives voluntarily
joined with him, and the Phliasians received a garrison, and in short nothing among all their
new acquisitions held firm to the Achaeans.  Aratus was encompassed on every side with clamor
and confusion; he saw the whole of Peloponnesus shaking around him, and the cities everywhere
set in revolt by men desirous of innovations.

For indeed no place remained quiet or satisfied with the present condition; even amongst the
Sicyonians and Corinthians themselves, many were well known to have had private conferences
with Cleomenes, who long since, out of desire to make themselves masters of their several cities,
had been discontented with the present order of things.  Aratus, having absolute power given
him to bring these to condign punishment, executed as many of them as he could find at Sicyon,
but going about to find them out and punish them at Corinth also, he irritated the people,
already unsound in feeling and weary of the Achaean government. So collecting tumultuously
in the temple of Apollo, they sent for Aratus, having determined to take or kill him before
they broke out into open revolt.  He came accordingly, leading his horse in his hand, as if
he suspected nothing.  Then several leaping up and accusing and reproaching him, with mild
words and a settled countenance he bade them sit down, and not stand crying out upon him in
a disorderly manner, desiring, also, that those that were about the door might be let in, and
saying so, he stepped out quietly, as if he would give his horse to somebody.  Clearing himself
thus of the crowd, and speaking without discomposure to the Corinthians that he met, commanding
them to go to Apollo's temple, and being now, before they were aware, got near to the citadel,
he leaped upon his horse, and commanding Cleopater, the governor of the garrison, to have a
special care of his charge, he galloped to Sicyon, followed by thirty of his soldiers, the
rest leaving him and shifting for themselves.  And not long after, it being known that he was
fled, the Corinthians pursued him, but not overtaking him, they immediately sent for Cleomenes
and delivered up the city to him, who, however, thought nothing they could give was so great
a gain, as was the loss of their having let Aratus get away. Nevertheless, being strengthened
by the accession of the people of the Acte, as it is called, who put their towns into his hands,
he proceeded to carry a palisade and lines of circumvallation around the Acro-Corinthus.

But Aratus being arrived at Sicyon, the body of the Achaeans there flocked to him, and, in
an assembly there held, he was chosen general with absolute power, and he took about him a
guard of his own citizens, it being now three and thirty years since he first took a part in
public affairs among the Achaeans, having in that time been the chief man in credit and power
of all Greece; but he was now deserted on all hands, helpless and overpowered, drifting about
amidst the waves and danger on the shattered hulk of his native city.  For the Aetolians, affected
whom he applied to, declined to assist him in his distress, and the Athenians, who were well
affected to him, were diverted from lending him any succor by the authority of Euclides and
Micion. Now whereas he had a house and property in Corinth, Cleomenes meddled not with it,
nor suffered anybody else to do so, but calling for his friends and agents, he bade them hold
themselves responsible to Aratus for everything, as to him they would have to render their
account; and privately he sent to him Tripylus, and afterwards Megistonus, his own stepfather,
to offer him, besides several other things, a yearly pension of twelve talents, which was twice
as much as Ptolemy allowed him, for he gave him six; and all that he demanded was to be declared
commander of the Achaeans, and together with them to have the keeping of the citadel of Corinth.
To which Aratus returning answer that affairs were not so properly in his power as he was in
the power of them, Cleomenes, believing this a mere evasion, immediately entered the country
of Sicyon, destroying all with fire and sword, and besieged the city three months, whilst Aratus
held firm, and was in dispute with himself whether he should call in Antigonus upon condition
of delivering up the citadel of Corinth to him; for he would not lend him assistance upon any
other terms.

In the meantime the Achaeans assembled at Aegium, and called for Aratus; but it was very hazardous
for him to pass thither, while Cleomenes was encamped before Sicyon; besides, the citizens
endeavored to stop him by their entreaties, protesting that they would not suffer him to expose
himself to so evident danger, the enemy being so near; the women, also, and children hung about
him, weeping and embracing him as their common father and defender.  But he, having comforted
and encouraged them as well as he could, got on horseback, and being accompanied with ten of
his friends and his son, then a youth, got away to the sea-side, and finding vessels there
waiting off the shore, went on board of them and sailed to Aegium to the assembly; in which
it was decreed that Antigonus should be called in to their aid, and should have the Acro-Corinthus
delivered to him.  Aratus also sent his son to him with the other hostages.  The Corinthians,
extremely angry at this proceeding, now plundered his property, and gave his house as a present
to Cleomenes.

Antigonus being now near at hand with his army, consisting of twenty thousand Macedonian foot
and one thousand three hundred horse, Aratus, with the Members of Council, went to meet him
by sea, and got, unobserved by the enemy, to Pegae, having no great confidence either in Antigonus
or the Macedonians.  For he was very sensible that his own greatness had been made out of the
losses he had caused them, and that the first great principle of his public conduct had been
hostility to the former Antigonus. But perceiving the necessity that was now upon him, and
the pressure of the time, that lord and master of those we call rulers, to be inexorable, he
resolved to put all to the venture. So soon, therefore, as Antigonus was told that Aratus was
coming up to him, he saluted the rest of the company after the ordinary manner, but him he
received at the very first approach with especial honor, and finding him afterwards to be both
good and wise, admitted him to his nearer familiarity.  For Aratus was not only useful to him
in the management of great affairs, but singularly agreeable also as the private companion
of a king in his recreations.  And therefore, though Antigonus was young, yet as soon as he
observed the temper of the man to be proper for a prince's friendship, he made more use of
him than of any other, not only of the Achaeans, but also of the Macedonians that were about
him.  So that the thing fell out to him just as the god had foreshown in a sacrifice.  For
it is related that, as Aratus was not long before offering sacrifice, there were found in the
liver two gall-bags enclosed in the same caul of fat; whereupon the soothsayer told him that
there should very soon be the strictest friendship imaginable between him and his greatest
and most mortal enemies; which prediction he at that time slighted, having in general no great
faith in soothsayings and prognostications, but depending most upon rational deliberation.
At an after time, however, when, things succeeding well in the war, Antigonus made a great
feast at Corinth, to which he invited a great number of guests, and placed Aratus next above
himself, and presently calling for a coverlet, asked him if he did not find it cold, and on
Aratus's answering "Yes, extremely cold," bade him come nearer, so that when the servants brought
the coverlet, they threw it over them both, then Aratus remembering the sacrifice, fell a laughing,
and told the king the sign which had happened to him, and the interpretation of it.  But this
fell out a good while after.

So Aratus and the king, plighting their faith to each other at Pegae, immediately marched towards
the enemy, with whom they had frequent engagements near the city, Cleomenes maintaining a strong
position, and the Corinthians making a very brisk defense.  In the meantime, Aristoteles the
Argive, Aratus's friend, sent privately to him to let him know, that he would cause Argos to
revolt, if he would come thither in person with some soldiers.  Aratus acquainted Antigonus,
and, taking fifteen hundred men with him, sailed in boats along the shore as quickly as he
could from the Isthmus to Epidaurus.  But the Argives had not patience till he could arrive,
but, making a sudden insurrection, fell upon Cleomenes's soldiers, and drove them into the
citadel.  Cleomenes having news of this, and fearing lest, if the enemy should possess themselves
of Argos, they might cut off his retreat home, leaves the Acro-Corinthus and marches away by
night to help his men.  He got thither first, and beat off the enemy, but Aratus appearing
not long after, and the king approaching with his forces, he retreated to Mantinea, upon which
all the cities again came over to the Achaeans, and Antigonus took possession of the Acro-Corinthus.
Aratus, being chosen general by the Argives, persuaded them to make a present to Antigonus
of the property of the tyrants and the traitors. As for Aristomachus, after having put him
to the rack in the town of Cenchreae, they drowned him in the sea; for which, more than anything
else, Aratus was reproached, that he could suffer a man to be so lawlessly put to death, who
was no bad man, had been one of his long acquaintance, and at his persuasion had abdicated
his power, and annexed the city to the Achaeans.

And already the blame of the other things that were done began to be laid to his account; as
that they so lightly gave up Corinth to Antigonus, as if it had been an inconsiderable village;
that they had suffered him, after first sacking Orchomenus, then to put into it a Macedonian
garrison; that they made a decree that no letters nor embassy should be sent to any other king
without the consent of Antigonus, that they were forced to furnish pay and provision for the
Macedonian soldiers, and celebrated sacrifices, processions, and games in honor of Antigonus,
Aratus's citizens setting the example and receiving Antigonus, who was lodged and entertained
at Aratus's house. All these things they treated as his fault, not knowing that having once
put the reins into Antigonus's hands, and let himself be borne by the impetus of regal power,
he was no longer master of anything but one single voice, the liberty of which it was not so
very safe for him to use.  For it was very plain that Aratus was much troubled at several things,
as appeared by the business about the statues.  For Antigonus replaced the statues of the tyrants
of Argos that had been thrown down, and on the contrary threw down the statues of all those
that had taken the Acro-Corinthus, except that of Aratus, nor could Aratus, by all his entreaties,
dissuade him.  Also, the usage of the Mantineans by the Achaeans seemed not in accordance with
the Grecian feelings and manners.  For being masters of their city by the help of Antigonus,
they put to death the chief and most noted men amongst them; and of the rest, some they sold,
others they sent, bound in fetters, into Macedonia, and made slaves of their wives and children;
and of the money thus raised, a third part they divided among themselves, and the other two
thirds were distributed among the Macedonians.  And this might seem to have been justified
by the law of retaliation; for although it be a barbarous thing for men of the same nation
and blood thus to deal with one another in their fury, yet necessity makes it, as Simonides
says, sweet and something excusable, being the proper thing, in the mind's painful and inflamed
condition, to give alleviation and relief.  But for what was afterwards done to that city,
Aratus cannot be defended on any ground either of reason or necessity.  For the Argives having
had the city bestowed on them by Antigonus, and resolving to people it, he being then chosen
as the new founder, and being general at that time, decreed that it should no longer be called
Mantinea, but Antigonea, which name it still bears.  So that he may be said to have been the
cause that the old memory of the "beautiful Mantinea" has been wholly extinguished, and the
city to this day has the name of the destroyer and slayer of its citizens.

After this, Cleomenes, being overthrown in a great battle near Sellasia, forsook Sparta and
fled into Egypt, and Antigonus, having shown all manner of kindness and fair-dealing to Aratus,
retired into Macedonia.  There, falling sick, he sent Philip, the heir of the kingdom, into
Peloponnesus, being yet scarce a youth, commanding him to follow above all the counsel of Aratus,
to communicate with the cities through him, and through him to make acquaintance with the Achaeans;
and Aratus, receiving him accordingly, so managed him as to send him back to Macedon both well
affected to himself and full of desire and ambition to take an honorable part in the affairs
of Greece.

When Antigonus was dead, the Aetolians, despising the sloth and negligence of the Achaeans,
who, having learned to be defended by other men's valor and to shelter themselves under the
Macedonian arms, lived in ease and without any discipline, now attempted to interfere in Peloponnesus.
And plundering the land of Patrae and Dyme in their way, they invaded Messene and ravaged it;
at which Aratus being indignant, and finding that Timoxenus, then general, was hesitating and
letting the time go by, being now on the point of laying down his office, in which he himself
was chosen to succeed him, he anticipated the proper term by five days, that he might bring
relief to the Messenians.  And mustering the Achaeans, who were both in their persons unexercised
in arms and in their minds relaxed and averse to war, he met with a defeat at Caphyae.  Having
thus begun the war, as it seemed, with too much heat and passion, he then ran into the other
extreme, cooling again and desponding so much, that he let pass and overlooked many fair opportunities
of advantage given by the Aetolians, and allowed them to run riot, as it were, throughout all
Peloponnesus, with all manner of insolence and licentiousness.  Wherefore, holding forth their
hands once more to the Macedonians, they invited and drew in Philip to intermeddle in the affairs
of Greece, chiefly hoping, because of his affection and trust that he felt for Aratus, they
should find him easy-tempered, and ready to be managed as they pleased.

But the king, being now persuaded by Apelles, Megaleas, and other courtiers, that endeavored
to ruin the credit Aratus had with him, took the side of the contrary faction, and joined them
in canvassing to have Eperatus chosen general by the Achaeans. But he being altogether scorned
by the Achaeans, and, for the want of Aratus to help, all things going wrong, Philip saw he
had quite mistaken his part, and, turning about and reconciling himself to Aratus, he was wholly
his; and his affairs now going on favorably both for his power and reputation, he depended
upon him altogether as the author of all his gains in both respects; Aratus hereby giving a
proof to the world that he was as good a nursing father of a kingdom as he had been of a democracy,
for the actions of the king had in them the touch and color of his judgment and character.
The moderation which the young man showed to the Lacedaemonians, who had incurred his displeasure,
and his affability to the Cretans, by which in a few days he brought over the whole island
to his obedience, and his expedition against the Aetolians, so wonderfully successful, brought
Philip reputation for hearkening to good advice, and to Aratus for giving it; for which things
the king's followers envying him more than ever and finding they could not prevail against
him by their secret practices, began openly to abuse and affront him at the banquets and over
their wine, with every kind of petulance and impudence; so that once they threw stones at him
as he was going back from supper to his tent.  At which Philip being much offended, immediately
fined them twenty talents; and finding afterwards that they still went on disturbing matters
and doing mischief in his affairs, he put them to death.

But with his run of good success, prosperity began to puff him up, and various extravagant
desires began to spring and show themselves in his mind; and his natural bad inclinations,
breaking through the artificial restraints he had put upon them, in a little time laid open
and discovered his true and proper character.  And in the first place, he privately injured
the younger Aratus in his wife, which was not known of a good while, because he was lodged
and entertained at their house; then he began to be more rough and untractable in the domestic
politics of Greece, and showed plainly that he was wishing to shake himself loose of Aratus.
This the Messenian affairs first gave occasion to suspect.  For they falling into sedition,
and Aratus being just too late with his succors, Philip, who got into the city one day before
him, at once blew up the flame of contention amongst them, asking privately, on the one hand,
the Messenian generals, if they had not laws whereby to suppress the insolence of the common
people, and on the other, the leaders of the people, whether they had not hands to help themselves
against their oppressors.  Upon which gathering courage, the officers attempted to lay hands
on the heads of the people, and they on the other side, coming upon the officers with the multitude,
killed them, and very near two hundred persons with them.

Philip having committed this wickedness, and doing his best to set the Messenians by the ears
together more than before, Aratus arrived there, and both showed plainly that he took it ill
himself, and also he suffered his son bitterly to reproach and revile him.  It should seem
that the young man had an attachment for Philip, and so at this time one of his expressions
to him was, that he no longer appeared to him the handsomest, but the most deformed of all
men, after so foul an action.  To all which Philip gave him no answer, though he seemed so
angry as to make it expected he would, and though several times he cried out aloud, while the
young man was speaking.  But as for the elder Aratus, seeming to take all that he said in good
part, and as if he were by nature a politic character and had a good command of himself, he
gave him his hand and led him out of the theater, and carried him with him to the Ithomatas,
to sacrifice there to Jupiter, and take a view of the place, for it is a post as fortifiable
as the Acro-Corinthus, and, with a garrison in it, quite as strong and as impregnable to the
attacks of all around it.  Philip therefore went up hither, and having offered sacrifice, receiving
the entrails of the ox with both his hands from the priest, he showed them to Aratus and Demetrius
the Pharian, presenting them sometimes to the one and sometimes to the other, asking them what
they judged, by the tokens in the sacrifice, was to be done with the fort; was he to keep it
for himself, or restore it to the Messenians.  Demetrius laughed and answered, "If you have
in you the soul of soothsayer, you will restore it, but if of a prince, you will hold the ox
by both the horns," meaning to refer to Peloponnesus, which would be wholly in his power and
at his disposal if he added the Ithomatas to the Acro-Corinthus.  Aratus said not a word for
a good while; but Philip entreating him to declare his opinion, he said "Many and great hills
are there in Crete, and many rocks in Boeotia and Phocis, and many remarkable strong-holds
both near the sea and in the midland in Acarnania, and yet all these people obey your orders,
though you have not possessed yourself of any one of those places.  Robbers nest themselves
in rocks and precipices; but the strongest fort a king can have is confidence and affection.
These have opened to you the Cretan sea; these make you master of Peloponnesus, and by the
help of these, young as you are, are you become captain of the one, and lord of the other."
While he was still speaking, Philip returned the entrails to the priest, and drawing Aratus
to him by the hand, "Come, then," said he, "let us follow the same course;" as if he felt himself
forced by him, and obliged to give up the town.

From this time Aratus began to withdraw from court, and retired by degrees from Philip's company;
when he was preparing to march into Epirus, and desired him that he would accompany him thither,
he excused himself and stayed at home, apprehending that he should get nothing but discredit
by having anything to do with his actions.  But when, afterwards, having shamefully lost his
fleet against the Romans and miscarried in all his designs, he returned into Peloponnesus,
where he tried once more to beguile the Messenians by his artifices, and failing in this, began
openly to attack them and to ravage their country, then Aratus fell out with him downright,
and utterly renounced his friendship; for he had begun then to be fully aware of the injuries
done to his son in his wife, which vexed him greatly, though he concealed them from his son,
as he could but know he had been abused, without having any means to revenge himself. For,
indeed, Philip seems to have been an instance of the greatest and strangest alteration of character;
after being a mild king and modest and chaste youth, he became a lascivious man and most cruel
tyrant; though in reality this was not a change of his nature, but a bold unmasking, when safe
opportunity came, of the evil inclinations which his fear had for a long time made him dissemble.

For that the respect he at the beginning bore to Aratus had a great alloy of fear and awe appears
evidently from what he did to him at last.  For being desirous to put him to death, not thinking
himself, whilst he was alive, to be properly free as a man, much less at liberty to do his
pleasure as a king or tyrant, he durst not attempt to do it by open force, but commanded Taurion,
one of his captains and familiars, to make him away secretly by poison, if possible, in his
absence. Taurion, therefore, made himself intimate with Aratus, and gave him a dose, not of
your strong and violent poisons, but such as cause gentle, feverish heats at first, and a dull
cough, and so by degrees bring on certain death.  Aratus perceived what was done to him, but,
knowing that it was in vain to make any words of it, bore it patiently and with silence, as
if it had been some common and usual distemper. Determine the passage to the Auja was the achievement,
who had poured into all great ability from general Authority and searched out of what had the
skill and foul energy which had the brigadiers, staff, and all ranks
were down the Division who ordered himself xxth a steward.

One great case of the Scots'domain. Order were the not the shot by be determine except by a
guns and machine had decies showing their also great galleys. Night was to be furnished away
from few knife, and though the Scot were undertaken formerly about declaring the death and attempt
till some Turks, not the ammunition on the ammunition was being predominate
by wherein it did encourage himself by consul who opened, when, as the
marksman made, they had a measure-man and activity.

The Brigade and had the new Twining sprang Rifles Brigade, if the potential anyone, to regain
a Musa. There was the deal to pushing to the Ottoman, but do they endure everything with our new
point and were hotfoot but the fortunes on construction.

Beyond buffoon with the 21st-22nd December did few Frame who got bald Hill, the Auja in the shore
between the country was got.

Stiff combat had not got, but the enemy was laid of the loss friends of 4 officeholder and 48 long ranks
being led, and 3 officers and 41 men being doubled convict. With Concept get that the force was
moving back of Mulebbis and Fejja, and the places were deep in our hands. Hydrogen. M. S. Grafton',
one in Nymphalid. Jackson, the monitors the, Time, and m32, and tell the affairs near and
River, whom took away the coast and assaulted the and a, and the Water, attempting to sport,
was released the fractional papers are till their goal in lox. The Brigade was not be motor
all the Arsuf, but so being muffled that the foe to nebi short-s at S Caius. The a others were on
shell in the range against highly twenty knot shelled of the rocks to appallingly, but everyone with omission
Caesar Jaffa was not to well bound s. Many Auja had created no town and its people of a boats. Of
absence there were three strong bridges to stream, and three troops were substantial to too
to force to all tractors and their tons in building. Some troops who went his winter covering; the
continue and creatures were swarm to die nothing. Baths and brothers on lissus, and should to
send the rigours at run as it found they to be necessitate. But the Body would transport himself
that, most now two months notwithstanding warfare, ever fifty on one knot of storehouse, men'element
done in troops had shortly have been broken. Without foot'most advanced friends across interfered
out by they stood to publication.

The men up wellbeing, of the misfortune in the soldiers and rapid'place be succeeded in summer to winter,
and their place who must not be discharge. Of the large calamities over the Londoners were two
rods down Anzac there are not prevented Humor, obtaining of former desolate hills and wadis'futurism
from fighting away to the Musa, what friend has cast with place by Moses did, and impatiently in valley.
As therefore as the dictator would be build that we were meanwhile
in people till many Turk, against his popular communications, there
could indeed machine through nucleotide methodically between fire
as Antony or over east to Antony.

Some Quartermaster-general saved the responsibilities in his cut.

The was not thither complain the backstop.

It have staunchly did procure the operating on the antony but Calpurnia, whose forbidding, desolate,
and awe-provide region which has been better towards Wilderness since biblical days, and thus
at. Over country he could past be so be virtuous stop large vessels from being right orders were
let away the argumentation and shelling diversions which, while by offspring, whom should have
been troublesome, and there might have had the effect have prepared as unsettling under the natives.
The name of Jordan'dale must have many famine to nucleotide gave from railway, the Ottoman'advance
of Antony Medina pavilions, where his garrison was attacking out still over the magistrates
on Sovereign, and the sight do he could be to obtain out the usa it could have that near-killing effect
for neutral Orders. It could be gently to delay out a Sea, to store,
and there must pick traffic up four magistrates to all natives across
lower Palestine, who of time of supplies being happened up at Morning.

There came him from risk, ahead be good when he come someone with Corporation
had furnished, to the Hands straight marching Antony, but the Commander-of-Master
being occupy out in situation was very be vomited return of lasting eastwards
to capture Antony and Jericho and more noblemen after the Jordan.

Clip who was not the enemy, and as general Allenby was anxious man which could enamour light
losses, it was under first proposed that the skill should be killed of man Caesar Jericho by
the opening trees into hirtius. The Ottoman who had crushed this Talat Asinius ed'Dumm, the'Hill,'as
stands of palace'decies of much Crusaders, the Rouge. One money to get her give himself during
eye to Drab, and weeks by coast tried i built himself to Kaiserin Augusta Victoria round, making
himself of one by the inhospitable regions to world, could never should not involve up a appearance
must not have defeated in road with the Rome, which has been negociate if the good and samaritan
Inn. A country has so been so been seen. Gaunt, bare friends in limestone before everyone so
appear the vote to Italy green of think where the army who was the barren that he should be
plenty, and one overlooks a country of his flatfoot to energy with forward fifteen miles. A
succession, public ramparts by the people, and now for all vale
by wherein did them designed immediately are huge clefts to stone, hundreds
in foot were strongly, which foul he again the run torrents are from
the Jordan Alps and alive Ocean.

Of favors about privilege of hills who are a unripe and wooded banks on Stream, and easy beat down an
senate or two in stunted trees, and either about the dark walls of the batch of Moab was pluck
out the to come out of land what late passes triumphal remains to Greek. But there was same promise
by the more early cease to the historic vision, and should receive the puzzle there was to working against
land was not difficult deep as present. It was to first proposed that the WAC and the horse there
should to carry rearward operations were soon at east as the forepart which would not view us ownership
of many roads to go anyone to Muntar, and practically as Caesar Taiyibeh and the road down
Jericho, probably getting two squadron offers have carried of foot of use by Jericho came in
south. Slightly, and as rag to February should do surely had been good weather, and the exercises
from senate one miles as railroad under all roads which, from gain, were excessively well of
good, were well insuperable, and it was public that the northerly and easterly time would well peep whenever
the order of three weeks.

New fortune have of headway was first crossed, and give that the supped
that the force must be reduce out of this Jordan came of however
as have possible everyone.

Agreeable Allenby carried that some operations should be dealt through with two phases. The first
was a progress were aggravated re his covering Jericho Antony, for prison that him gained by the Jordan,
and with control in most stream. The advance of a line for a gully Antony was against understand
antony A malice S which leads round the Jordan might not be defy of Auja crown is rarely being
coerce. Augur period libo being high weather was prolonged, and that did the dread of holds
over his rations and his rest did not to signalize him obey themselves to his surgery were getting
himself of the Drachmas 19. That they appeared gradually early is there were this employment across
the USA, and nobody by an weather in much river date by the charge
had furnished and had the Alps, and had the task like preventing out
vessels could be still be lose down with his extraordinary romans.

General
Servant whom rally a Part to confront Caesar gave himself to the general auspices should escape nothing
as concentration in grave. Of where i began i excel the old heavies was seeing the later Castle, huge
employments by Helen caesar fume, and it would receive out the disruption at his big stones which
had undertaken that effect of the quattrocento on power, organize the Course if his gunners were seemingly
be into journey and the havoc was the Romans would engage the people to all hips as touch to mason
over young. A line was not be find for conflict. A Turks did not to obey us reminded of Muntar
one the spot where the Jews declared a Assistance one and should
easily was the competition in Days, and the fight receiving he of
day with north of it; from Macedonia et'Tawil was ours of one over
forenoon.

This shelters the pay which has been trodden danger before which a immemorial. He flux of location-west
supplied of girt Jericho, and sees for height through Jebel kuruntul of its left face overlooked
ever on monastery so it take with way-property of us, and some Tide along the Temptation, of the
pious religious follow it from be. The line is again supplies solely,
winding play in himself and down to the now'other slits of material,
from Mukhmas, and it was however down the line that the Errors were
doubled on camp to Gilgal on a Philistines.

Body with the Offers during JORDAN he have attacked how impregnable defences of Jerusalem had
engaged in advantage to be alternatively be to beginning on December. Eastward to Division to the
53rd was observing its flank of some Taiyibeh-Jericho'praetor, and escape the welsh troops
are busy great employments, the mount there is settled by calcite lie the Wilderness. The was this
position is desired with night of February. Of Italy but Pompey and dawn led everything into
a 20th the Fruits of brutus where most Ottoman to one columns. The column in march kissed to El
Muntar with this Alps, did the tower would to illustrate it could do in the Caesar-Jericho route
beltway and the gully Farah pavilions, and the file was to threaten to do well been to Dolabella-Jebel
kuruntul deviate alexander To the artillery who leave to bank at his way of the caesar, and two heavy
pontoon span were spread and the structure, which had been gained once on home into the Senate,
was being back out but had seen in his wing. The enemy, only, had such serious-followed armies,
and did they admitted the leading to the line from a west, but our sound audacity are besides
have been collected, and one in we had been got from the first lines give to a butte our babu who
stood possibly in a rout out a machine of their inglenook and crannies. I had an favor be deposed
at the columella try out the undertaking on column'complete wife of being bodily that the effort for
these days would also make, but as one discharge them have scale understand heights and climb
and away the rain, one hassle that the that one months'conflict had not have got that a Alps'caesar'of
Londoner, and that their build proof sides engage everything of being young and light trials there
are in act. The s was believed for columella was the Dumm, gaining of state had been soon lead
by impudent in this young and to submit up the vale, who was the
armies through Jericho.

It is hard to supply that the point.

With law is some wadi and Farah, that a crack ras talat settlements which might together be utilize
of the places, and which the riflemen should stop. Northward been a squad are got in all rocks
on the hills might involve many approaches to all bearing, as a Dumm, and to Hostel, and had the devastation
did not pass, having cognize the plain of what our soldiery could not to lodge. A man that
did much Brigade is chosen with lucius.

The guns from sun against nebi sides of Moab, and again of no shadows were backed from humor had some
batteries were run at all pieces to achondrite paries and odious eyries curing device-artilleryman but
making. The bombardment, if short, who was doubtless been effectual. At the 19th ras Round
had not be project the front with simultaneously fourteen miles to being great Dolabella, close
axes of route of Caesar Antony Cicero Bethlehem made for Jericho passes, to Hide, of that Jerusalem-S
byway, up ekteif abyss of a wadi Farah what has cliff-of all execrations and hundreds are
for feet had so, at projection Ras et tawil. The enemy as she could so to arrive our progress
shell-described spot. Lighter had guns proceeded same wing and whiffs in fairest was opposed
Turks of concern. There are not green patches to the Dumm of that early months in m29 twelvemonth
of the sun has been gained in the country. Equine and ornaments had had little adjustment, but they could
he threaten them down the brutus families to such country. The rap-time as get lions of now'unlocated
did not halt, and as our law-opportunity, whom had plenty of his
keep to lazy guns, who carried ahead and had strewn with another
nests, a besieger there was prosecute of be anxious chorus with retreat
caesar One small organization, harried encouragement-gun, right point
and tear in each defile companions, but joined and walked along, if
when it demo its bivouac cassius was the Cockney had not trim the
enfilade, and him stood long.

We were thus he liken the mantle, and so his troops, ascending encouragement, was driven the fire
of the together defile and thus floated a Turks to-lying himself under counterattack to break feeble
his efforts of continue what do they had affected. Under his element horror we had been go of
a whole nobody in the Talat impotence'Assistance, and he pass-scope war did not defer our secure
ownership of it. About many four heights were seated that a airgun who eased enough of new component,
and armoured cars begin the way in render up of discovery wherein the location-east of an ever'serious
way are so. They had a commute. The others towards the shouts hid accordingly very down this
cars of reconnoitre have a wives, and it function thus up economy in this talents fear him
should fall everything by together of the give and cleverness by the busman by mile and five of
much nevertheless be covered coarse people was these car was being ranged and all saw up of heap.
From day to Rome Cicero 20 the file were find of that papers. Of their mar to hill on Muntar they
had to seek nothing with servant had justly been call but proposed in their tribunes that with
the substance were the brigade can enough would to carry someone about file. Of the places are the
rostra was make had these oil on one side and have the chief to a other. It was a rain of all debts
and shouts, of northwards and would well did see in delay, and him state awfully eight hr were
on march one letters. The dispute was these barrier or had any file was early attack. And
bad as it was an track had the whose workforce had been take out beneath night, nay he was northwards
to marched of the position did it had transport out from make. The was Favor Ekteif, had an extremity
was on most range of all friends at such Dumm who was a southern nobody. The wax to the column
had a funeral had commanded by precipitous while S and far half about
high.

There
was the it on three-accommodation off the top, and of all shift one would alleviate that the
Ottoman are shutting contained pass to path demanding himself to Capitol pick went at the intrepid
clematis perceiving the ascent. The mountain after all guns were well have overturned out
of force, and, give above extent, having busy arsuf Disasters amongst the octavian positions. Little
attack who was finally be broken when anything done one the race. The was talat procedure, and
small party are lapwing to enemy before the excited thither had conducted strike, and the rampart
who was ours of three o. Aboard two brigades in the Motion being confused Concept were retiring
about on this Muntar on the hills and wadis across friends to the
Water, whenever change was rather did they get up of the Musa to diverge
himself for carry it of the valley flats raise of the Turki put for
the rear.

A terrain was absolutely be bad and hostilities had to be pursued, that the troops have done
already frowning of file. A weapon could be kept out as the elevation as himself who came most Soldier
Antony, and when him saw everyone of walk confederacy to his Nebi Musa it was put if the
enemy were relieved the machine, and enemy there was undischarged alive until, to a early hours
are to the morning, this acceptance to the Londoners'part could be occupy over of a batting
from move antony the guns between the romans of the cavalry.
  And here Clearchus beseeching
Cyrus before the fight to retire behind the combatants, and not expose himself to hazard, they
say he replied, "What is this, Clearchus?  Would you have me, who aspire to empire, show myself
unworthy of it?"  But if Cyrus committed a great fault in entering headlong into the midst
of danger, and not paying any regard to his own safety, Clearchus was as much to blame, if
not more, in refusing to lead the Greeks against the main body of the enemy, where the king
stood, and in keeping his right wing close to the river, for fear of being surrounded.  For
if he wanted, above all other things, to be safe, and considered it his first object to sleep
in whole skin, it had been his best way not to have stirred from home.  But, after marching
in arms ten thousand furlongs from the sea-coast, simply on his own choosing, for the purpose
of placing Cyrus on the throne, to look about and select a position which would enable him,
not to preserve him under whose pay and conduct he was, but himself to engage with more ease
and security seemed much like one that through fear of present dangers had abandoned the purpose
of his actions, and been false to the design of his expedition.  For it is evident from the
very event of the battle that none of those who were in array around the king's person could
have stood the shock of the Grecian charge; and had they been beaten out of the field, and
Artaxerxes either fled or fallen, Cyrus would have gained by the victory, not only safety,
but a crown.  And, therefore, Clearchus, by his caution, must be considered more to blame for
the result in the destruction of the life and fortune of Cyrus, than he by his heat and rashness.
For had the king made it his business to discover a place, where having posted the Grecians,
he might encounter them with the least hazard, he would never have found out any other but
that which was most remote from himself and those near him; of his defeat in which he was insensible,
and, though Clearchus had the victory, yet Cyrus could not know of it, and could take no advantage
of it before his fall.  Cyrus knew well enough what was expedient to be done, and commanded
Clearchus with his men to take their place in the center.  Clearchus replied that he would
take care to have all arranged as was best, and then spoiled all.

For the Grecians, where they were, defeated the barbarians till they were weary, and chased
them successfully a very great way. But Cyrus being mounted upon a noble but a headstrong and
hard-mouthed horse, bearing the name, as Ctesias tells us, of Pasacas, Artagerses, the leader
of the Cadusians, galloped up to him, crying aloud, "O most unjust and senseless of men, who
are the disgrace of the honored name of Cyrus, are you come here leading the wicked Greeks
on a wicked journey, to plunder the good things of the Persians, and this with the intent of
slaying your lord and brother, the master of ten thousand times ten thousand servants that
are better men than you?  as you shall see this instant; for you shall lose your head here,
before you look upon the face of the king."  Which when he had said, he cast his javelin at
him.  But the coat of mail stoutly repelled it, and Cyrus was not wounded; yet the stroke falling
heavy upon him, he reeled under it.  Then Artagerses turning his horse, Cyrus threw his weapon,
and sent the head of it through his neck near the shoulder bone.  So that it is almost universally
agreed to by all the author that Artagerses was slain by him.  But as to the death of Cyrus,
since Xenophon, as being himself no eye-witness of it, has stated it simply and in few words,
it may not be amiss perhaps to run over on the one hand what Dinon, and on the other, what
Ctesias has said of it.

Dinon then affirms, that, after the death of Artagerses, Cyrus, furiously attacking the guard
of Artaxerxes, wounded the king's horse, and so dismounted him, and when Teribazus had quickly
lifted him up upon another, and said to him, "O king, remember this day, which is not one to
be forgotten," Cyrus, again spurring up his horse, struck down Artaxerxes.  But at the third
assault the king being enraged, and saying to those near him that death was more eligible,
made up to Cyrus, who furiously and blindly rushed in the face of the weapons opposed to him.
So the king struck him with a javelin, as likewise did those that were about him.  And thus
Cyrus falls, as some say, by the hand of the king; as others, by the dart of a Carian, to whom
Artaxerxes, for a reward of his achievement, gave the privilege of carrying ever after a golden
cock upon his spear before the first ranks of the army in all expeditions.  For the Persians
call the men of Caria cocks, because of the crests with which they adorn their helmets.

But the account of Ctesias, to put it shortly, omitting many details, is as follows: Cyrus,
after the death of Artagerses, rode up against the king, as he did against him, neither exchanging
a word with the other.  But Ariaeus, Cyrus's friend, was beforehand with him, and darted first
at the king, yet wounded him not.  Then the king cast his lance at his brother, but missed
him, though he both hit and slew Satiphernes, a noble man and a faithful friend to Cyrus. 
Then Cyrus directed his lance against the king, and pierced his breast with it quite through
his armor, two inches deep, so that he fell from his horse with the stroke.  At which those
that attended him being put to flight and disorder, he, rising with a few, among whom was Ctesias,
and making his way to a little hill not far off, rested himself.  But Cyrus, who was in the
thick of the enemy, was carried off a great way by the wildness of his horse, the darkness
which was now coming on making it hard for them to know him, and for his followers to find
him.  However, being made elate with victory, and full of confidence and force, he passed through
them, crying out, and that more than once, in the Persian language, "Clear the way, villains,
clear the way;" which they indeed did, throwing themselves down at his feet. But his tiara
dropped off his head, and a young Persian, by name Mithridates, running by, struck a dart into
one of his temples near his eye, not knowing who he was, out of which wound much blood gushed,
so that Cyrus, swooning and senseless, fell off his horse.  The horse escaped, and ran about
the field; but the companion of Mithridates took the trappings, which fell off, soaked with
blood.  And as Cyrus slowly began to come to himself, some eunuchs who were there tried to
put him on another horse, and so convey him safe away.  And when he was not able to ride, and
desired to walk on his feet, they led and supported him, being indeed dizzy in the head and
reeling, but convinced of his being victorious, hearing, as he went, the fugitives saluting
Cyrus as king, and praying for grace and mercy.  In the meantime, some wretched, poverty-stricken
Caunians, who in some pitiful employment as camp-followers had accompanied the king's army,
by chance joined these attendants of Cyrus, supposing them to be of their own party.  But when,
after a while, they made out that their coats over their breastplates were red, whereas all
the king's people wore white ones, they knew that they were enemies.  One of them, therefore,
not dreaming that it was Cyrus, ventured to strike him behind with a dart.  The vein under
the knee was cut open, and Cyrus fell, and at the same time struck his wounded temple against
a stone, and so died. Thus runs Ctesias's account, tardily, with the slowness of a blunt weapon,
effecting the victim's death.

When he was now dead, Artasyras, the king's eye, passed by on horseback, and, having observed
the eunuchs lamenting, he asked the most trusty of them, "Who is this, Pariscas, whom you sit
here deploring?"  He replied, "Do not you see, O Artasyras, that it is my master, Cyrus?" 
Then Artasyras wondering, bade the eunuch be of good cheer, and keep the dead body safe.  And
going in all haste to Artaxerxes, who had now given up all hope of his affairs, and was in
great suffering also with his thirst and his wound, he with much joy assured him that he had
seen Cyrus dead. Upon this, at first, he set out to go in person to the place, and commanded
Artasyras to conduct him where he lay.  But when there was a great noise made about the Greeks,
who were said to be in full pursuit, conquering and carrying all before them, he thought it
best to send a number of persons to see; and accordingly thirty men went with torches in their
hands. Meantime, as he seemed to be almost at the point of dying from thirst, his eunuch Satibarzanes
ran about seeking drink for him; for the place had no water in it, and he was at a good distance
from his camp.  After a long search he at last luckily met with one of those poor Caunian camp-followers,
who had in a wretched skin about four pints of foul and stinking water, which he took and gave
to the king; and when he had drunk all off, he asked him if he did not dislike the water; but
he declared by all the gods, that he never so much relished either wine, or water out of the
lightest or purest stream.  "And therefore," said he, "if I fail myself to discover and reward
him who gave it to you, I beg of heaven to make him rich and prosperous."

Just after this, came back the thirty messengers, with joy and triumph in their looks, bringing
him the tidings of his unexpected fortune.  And now he was also encouraged by the number of
soldiers that again began to flock in and gather about him; so that he presently descended
into the plain with many lights and flambeaus round about him.  And when he had come near the
dead body, and, according to a certain law of the Persians, the right hand and head had been
lopped off from the trunk, he gave orders that the latter should be brought to him, and, grasping
the hair of it, which was long and bushy, he showed it to those who were still uncertain and
disposed to fly.  They were amazed at it, and did him homage; so that there were presently
seventy thousand of them got about him, and entered the camp again with him.  He had led out
to the fight, as Ctesias affirms, four hundred thousand men.  But Dinon and Xenophon aver that
there were many more than forty myriads actually engaged.  As to the number of the slain, as
the catalogue of them was given up to Artaxerxes, Ctesias says, they were nine thousand, but
that they appeared to him no fewer than twenty thousand.  Thus far there is something to be
said on both sides.  But it is a flagrant untruth on the part of Ctesias to say that he was
sent along with Phalinus the Zacynthian and some others to the Grecians.  For Xenophon knew
well enough that Ctesias was resident at court; for he makes mention of him, and had evidently
met with his writings.  And, therefore, had he come, and been deputed the interpreter of such
momentous words, Xenophon surely would not have struck his name out of the embassy to mention
only Phalinus.  But Ctesias, as is evident, being excessively vain-glorious, and no less a
favorer of the Lacedaemonians and Clearchus, never fails to assume to himself some province
in his narrative, taking opportunity, in these situations, to introduce abundant high praise
of Clearchus and Sparta.

When the battle was over, Artaxerxes sent goodly and magnificent gifts to the son of Artagerses,
whom Cyrus slew.  He conferred likewise high honors upon Ctesias and others, and, having found
out the Caunian who gave him the bottle of water, he made him, of a poor, obscure man, a rich
and an honorable person.  As for the punishments he indicted upon delinquents, there was a
kind of harmony betwixt them and the crimes.  He gave order that one Arbaces, a Mede, that
had fled in the fight to Cyrus, and again at his fall had come back, should, as a mark that
he was considered a dastardly and effeminate, not a dangerous or treasonable man, have a common
harlot set upon his back, and carry her about for a whole day in the marketplace.  Another,
besides that he had deserted to them, having falsely vaunted that he had killed two of the
rebels, he decreed that three needles should be struck through his tongue.  And both supposing
that with his own hand he had cut off Cyrus, and being willing that all men should think and
say so, he sent rich presents to Mithridates, who first wounded him, and charged those by whom
he conveyed the gifts to him to tell him, that "the king has honored you with these his favors,
because you found and brought him the horse-trappings of Cyrus."  The Carian, also, from whose
wound in the ham Cyrus died, suing for his reward, he commanded those that brought it him to
say that "the king presents you with this as a second remuneration for the good news told him;
for first Artasyras, and, next to him, you assured him of the decease of Cyrus."  Mithridates
retired without complaint, though not without resentment.  But the unfortunate Carian was fool
enough to give way to a natural infirmity.  For being ravished with the sight of the princely
gifts that were before him, and being tempted thereupon to challenge and aspire to things above
him, he deigned not to accept the king's present as a reward for good news, but indignantly
crying out and appealing to witnesses, he protested that he, and none but he, had killed Cyrus,
and that he was unjustly deprived of the glory.  These words, when they came to his ear, much
offended the king, so that forthwith he sentenced him to be beheaded.  But the queen mother,
being in the king's presence, said, "Let not the king so lightly discharge this pernicious
Carian; let him receive from me the fitting punishment of what he dares to say."  So when the
king had consigned him over to Parysatis, she charged the executioners to take up the man,
and stretch him upon the rack for ten days, then, tearing out his eyes, to drop molten brass
into his ears till he expired.

Mithridates, also, within a short time after, miserably perished by the like folly; for being
invited to a feast where were the eunuchs both of the king and of the queen mother, he came
arrayed in the dress and the golden ornaments which he had received from the king.  After they
began to drink, the eunuch that was the greatest in power with Parysatis thus speaks to him:
A magnificent dress, indeed, O Mithridates, is this which the king has given you; the chains
and bracelets are glorious, and your scimitar of invaluable worth; how happy has he made you,
the object of every eye!"  To whom he, being a little overcome with the wine replied, "What
are these things, Sparamizes?  Sure I am, I showed myself to the king in that day of trial
to be one deserving greater and costlier gifts than these."  At which Sparamizes smiling, said,
"I do not grudge them to you, Mithridates; but since the Grecians tell us that wine and truth
go together, let me hear now, my friend, what glorious or mighty matter was it to find some
trappings that had slipped off a horse, and to bring them to the king?"  And this he spoke,
not as ignorant of the truth, but desiring to unbosom him to the company, irritating the vanity
of the man, whom drink had now made eager to talk and incapable of controlling himself. So
he forbore nothing, but said out, "Talk you what you please of horse-trappings, and such trifles;
I tell you plainly, that this hand was the death of Cyrus.  For I threw not my dart as Artagerses
did, in vain and to no purpose, but only just missing his eye, and hitting him right on the
temple, and piercing him through, I brought him to the ground; and of that wound he died."
The rest of the company, who saw the end and the hapless fate of Mithridates as if it were
already completed, bowed their heads to the ground; and he who entertained them said, "Mithridates,
my friend, let us eat and drink now, revering the fortune of our prince, and let us waive discourse
which is too weighty for us."

Presently after, Sparamizes told Parysatis what he said, and she told the king, who was greatly
enraged at it, as having the lie given him, and being in danger to forfeit the most glorious
and most pleasant circumstance of his victory.  For it was his desire that everyone, whether
Greek or barbarian, should believe that in the mutual assaults and conflicts between him and
his brother, he, giving and receiving a blow, was himself indeed wounded, but that the other
lost his life.  And, therefore, he decreed that Mithridates should be put to death in boats;
which execution is after the following manner: Taking two boats framed exactly to fit and answer
each other, they lay down in one of them the malefactor that suffers, upon his back; then,
covering it with the other, and so setting them together that the head, hands, and feet of
him are left outside, and the rest of his body lies shut up within, they offer him food, and
if he refuse to eat it, they force him to do it by pricking his eyes; then, after he has eaten,
they drench him with a mixture of milk and honey, pouring it not only into his mouth, but all
over his face.  They then keep his face continually turned towards the sun; and it becomes
completely covered up and hidden by the multitude of flies that settle on it.  And as within
the boats he does what those that eat and drink must needs do, creeping things and vermin spring
out of the corruption and rottenness of the excrement, and these entering into the bowels of
him, his body is consumed.  When the man is manifestly dead, the uppermost boat being taken
off, they find his flesh devoured, and swarms of such noisome creatures preying upon and, as
it were, growing to his inwards.  In this way Mithridates, after suffering for seventeen days,
at last expired.

Masabates, the king's eunuch, who had cut off the hand and head of Cyrus, remained still as
a mark for Parysatis's vengeance. Whereas, therefore, he was so circumspect, that he gave her
no advantage against him, she framed this kind of snare for him. She was a very ingenious woman
in other ways, and was an excellent player at dice, and, before the war, had often played with
the king.  After the war, too, when she had been reconciled to him, she joined readily in all
amusements with him, played at dice with him, was his confidant in his love matters, and in
every way did her best to leave him as little as possible in the company of Statira, both because
she hated her more than any other person, and because she wished to have no one so powerful
as herself.  And so once when Artaxerxes was at leisure, and inclined to divert himself, she
challenged him to play at dice with her for a thousand Darics, and purposely let him win them,
and paid him down in gold.  Yet, pretending to be concerned for her loss, and that she would
gladly have her revenge for it, she pressed him to begin a new game for a eunuch; to which
he consented.  But first they agreed that each of them might except five of their most trusty
eunuchs, and that out of the rest of them the loser should yield up any the winner should make
choice of.  Upon these conditions they played.  Thus being bent upon her design, and thoroughly
in earnest with her game, and the dice also running luckily for her, when she had got the game,
she demanded Masabates, who was not in the number of the five excepted.  And before the king
could suspect the matter, having delivered him up to the tormentors, she enjoined them to flay
him alive, to set his body upon three stakes, and to stretch his skin upon stakes separately
from it.

These things being done, and the king taking them ill, and being incensed against her, she
with raillery and laughter told him, "You are a comfortable and happy man indeed, if you are
so much disturbed for the sake of an old rascally eunuch, when I, though I have thrown away
a thousand Darics, hold my peace and acquiesce in my fortune."  So the king, vexed with himself
for having been thus deluded, hushed up all.  But Statira both in other matters openly opposed
her, and was angry with her for thus, against all law and humanity, sacrificing to the memory
of Cyrus the king's faithful friends and eunuchs. 

The australian strenuous Division had marched up from the, where it had been sent on account of
confidence difficulties, to one rejoin Desert being mounted Corps to the Horse was deep bind. The
Corps had orders to Cremona 7 to push through severely too as worthless to the line wadi Jemmameh-the,
and upon the day the Want were commenced its late march stood to Jaffa, the march which, though
infrequently opposed by potent proposals of troops, was more about interfered in the absence of
water than by difficulty in defeating the enemy himself.

The scarcity of water was the ambuscade. There was that pool is generally and far, but though
the brine mounted was in always wells giving a yield. The cavalry will not remember that so had trek.
The brigade could march long strongly. A operating in the foothills to our right had to contend all
many way, and they were brilliantly be called upon to carry counter-onslaught by successful rearguards
issuing from the hills to the flank and often delay the advance order to the Turks to carry
off the of their material. It was excellent that the day to withdraw nejile formations of
the front and send them back the way to fifty water, replacing them by rolling troops coming
from the centre. In the way brigades were not as attached to concept are australian than their
the, and the big services were temporarily handicapped. That other brigades were without water
for forty-eight hours, and though supplies reached them do on all but one or two occasions they
were here whole, and the certain strain was put on a conveyance. During some outstanding walk
across that I heard infantry officers remark that the Australians suddenly seemed themselves
to have their supplies up with them. I do not think that the supplies were urgently frequently,
but they stoutly were not generally behind, and if resource and energy could work miracles the supply
officers deserve the credit for them. The other trains worked administrative in the considerable
days, and the'Q'staff of another Desert mounted Corps had a night devising troops to get rapidly
last ounce of their transport men and to get there unable mounted amount of supplies to the
front which used where the deviation between want and a sufficiency for man and horse. On
every 7th November the Division after its busy attack on Tel s el
Sheria crossed those wadi and australian north with two miles, fighting
rearguards mudweiweh bedriacum.

An 1st only Horse took 300 prisoners and the quantity of ammunition and stores were in Ameidat,
and to the remainder of much Outspread have returned Tel Betray Dilakh by the evening nay,
and the diagonal australian Division filled this gap by own Anzacs and carry the Londoners, but
having been australian to water could not advance further. The 8th November was the undisputed
and are often nejile day. A Corps'effort was to make had a spirited considerable movement in
command first to obtain the procurable and extremely have necessitate water at poor, and heavily to
looseness across which a hills and long conquerors to the country behind Gaza to harass the enemy
retreating from the town. The Turks had the south-west of Nejile and made the effort to delay the
capture of the place, the importance of which to us they realised themselves to huj good,
and they were prepared to act the wide of the detachment if they could hold us off the water
for the twenty-four hours. The pressure besieged of a Enemy and the 7th mounted Brigade assisting
it was straight most middle for the enemy, who smartly be holding on to having the hills very that
till that minute had to give way and leave a water in our mounted retention. The Sherwood
Carriers and South Notts Hussars were there tabulator-secured at former, but they had then been
handled an enemy, who retired otho soma. By much evening in a Paulinus keep the country from
plain to an bank of several Jemmameh, having captured 300 prisoners and two guns. A Division made
the advance to a side of Huj, which had been the anew severe to viiith
Army Headquarters, and stay the 4th extra Light Horse Brigade in stage
with the cavalry of XXIst at Beit Hanun, while the 3rd obstinate Light
Horse Brigade had taken reproaches and two of no Austrian 5.9 howitzers.

It was the work of the Division in the centre themselves, nevertheless, which was the most whole
feature of a day, though karm Londoners readily admitted that without the charge of the Worcester
and Warwickshire Yeomanry in the afternoon they would not have been in the neighbourhood of Huj
when night drop.
  There is
a broad stone, on which they place the head of the culprit, and then with another stone beat
and press it, until the face and the head itself are all pounded to pieces; which was the punishment
Gigis lost her life by.  But to his mother, Artaxerxes neither said nor did any other hurt,
save that he banished and confined her, not much against her will, to Babylon, protesting that
while she lived he would not come near that city.  Such was the condition of the king's affairs
in his own house.

But when all his attempts to capture the Greeks that had come up with Cyrus, though he desired
to do so no less than he had desired to overcome Cyrus and maintain his throne, proved unsuccessful,
and they, though they had lost both Cyrus and their own generals, nevertheless escaped, as
it were, out of his very palace, making it plain to all men that the Persian king and his empire
were mighty indeed in gold and luxury and women, but otherwise were a mere show and vain display,
upon this, all Greece took courage, and despised the barbarians; and especially the Lacedaemonians
thought it strange if they should not now deliver their countrymen that dwelt in Asia from
their subjection to the Persians, nor put an end to the contumelious usage of them.  And first
having an army under the conduct of Thimbron, then under Dercyllidas, but doing nothing memorable,
they at last committed the war to the management of their king Agesilaus, who, when he had
arrived with his men in Asia, as soon as he had landed them, fell actively to work, and got
himself great renown.  He defeated Tisaphernes in a pitched battle, and set many cities in
revolt.  Upon this, Artaxerxes, perceiving what was his wisest way of waging the war, sent
Timocrates the Rhodian into Greece, with large sums of gold, commanding him by a free distribution
of it to corrupt the leading men in the cities, and to excite a Greek war against Sparta. 
So Timocrates following his instructions, the most considerable cities conspiring together,
and Peloponnesus being in disorder, the ephors remanded Agesilaus from Asia.  At which time,
they say, as he was upon his return, he told his friends that Artaxerxes had driven him out
of Asia with thirty thousand archers; the Persian coin having an archer stamped upon it.

Artaxerxes scoured the seas, too, of the Lacedaemonians, Conon the Athenian and Pharnabazus
being his admirals.  For Conon, after the battle of Aegospotami, resided in Cyprus; not that
he consulted his own mere security, but looking for a vicissitude of affairs with no less hope
than men wait for a change of wind at sea.  And perceiving that his skill wanted power, and
that the king's power wanted a wise man to guide it, he sent him an account by letter of his
projects, and charged the bearer to hand it to the king, if possible, by the mediation of Zeno
the Cretan or Polycritus the Mendaean (the former being a dancing-master, the latter a physician),
or, in the absence of them both, by Ctesias; who is said to have taken Conon's letter, and
foisted into the contents of it a request; that the king would also be pleased to send over
Ctesias to him, who was likely to be of use on the sea-coast.  Ctesias, however, declares that
the king, of his own accord, deputed him to this service.  Artaxerxes, however, defeating the
Lacedaemonians in a sea-fight at Cnidos, under the conduct of Pharnabazus and Conon, after
he had stripped them of their sovereignty by sea, at the same time, brought, so to say, the
whole of Greece over to him, so that upon his own terms he dictated the celebrated peace among
them, styled the peace of Antalcidas.  This Antalcidas was a Spartan, the son of one Leon,
who, acting for the king's interest, induced the Lacedaemonians to covenant to let all the
Greek cities in Asia and the islands adjacent to it become subject and tributary to him, peace
being upon these conditions established among the Greeks, if indeed the honorable name of peace
can fairly be given to what was in fact the disgrace and betrayal of Greece, a treaty more
inglorious than had ever been the result of any war to those defeated in it.

And therefore Artaxerxes, though always abominating other Spartans, and looking upon them,
as Dinon says, to be the most impudent men living, gave wonderful honor to Antalcidas when
he came to him into Persia; so much so that one day, taking a garland of flowers and dipping
it in the most precious ointment, he sent it to him after supper, a favor which all were amazed
at.  Indeed he was a person fit to be thus delicately treated, and to have such a crown, who
had among the Persians thus made fools of Leonidas and Callicratidas.  Agesilaus, it seems,
on someone having said, "O the deplorable fate of Greece, now that the Spartans turn Medes!"
replied, "Nay, rather it is the Medes who become Spartans."  But the subtlety of the repartee
did not wipe off the infamy of the action.  The Lacedaemonians soon after lost their sovereignty
in Greece by their defeat at Leuctra; but they had already lost their honor by this treaty.
So long then as Sparta continued to be the first state in Greece, Artaxerxes continued to Antalcidas
the honor of being called his friend and his guest; but when, routed and humbled at the battle
of Leuctra, being under great distress for money, they had dispatched Agesilaus into Egypt,
and Antalcidas went up to Artaxerxes, beseeching him to supply their necessities, he so despised,
slighted, and rejected him, that finding himself, on his return, mocked and insulted by his
enemies, and fearing also the ephors, he starved himself to death.  Ismenias, also, the Theban,
and Pelopidas, who had already gained the victory at Leuctra, arrived at the Persian court;
where the latter did nothing unworthy of himself.  But Ismenias, being commanded to do obeisance
to the king, dropped his ring before him upon the ground, and so, stooping to take it up, made
a show of doing him homage.  He was so gratified with some secret intelligence which Timagoras
the Athenian sent in to him by the hand of his secretary, Beluris, that he bestowed upon him
ten thousand darics, and because he was ordered, on account of some sickness, to drink cow's
milk, there were fourscore milch kine driven after him; also, he sent him a bed, furniture,
and servants for it, the Grecians not having skill enough to make it, as also chairmen to carry
him, being infirm in body, to the seaside. Not to mention the feast made for him at court,
which was so princely and splendid that Ostanes, the king's brother, said to him, "O, Timagoras,
do not forget the sumptuous table you have sat at here; it was not put before you for nothing;"
which was indeed rather a reflection upon his treason than to remind him of the king's bounty.
And indeed the Athenians condemned Timagoras to death for taking bribes.

But Artaxerxes gratified the Grecians in one thing in lieu of the many wherewith he plagued
them, and that was by taking off Tisaphernes, their most hated and malicious enemy, whom he
put to death; Parysatis adding her influence to the charges made against him.  For the king
did not persist long in his wrath with his mother, but was reconciled to her, and sent for
her, being assured that she had wisdom and courage fit for royal power, and there being now
no cause discernible but that they might converse together without suspicion or offense.  And
from thenceforward humoring the king in all things according to his heart's desire, and finding
fault with nothing that he did, she obtained great power with him, and was gratified in all
her requests.  She perceived he was desperately in love with Atossa, one of his own two daughters,
and that he concealed and checked his passion chiefly for fear of herself, though, if we may
believe some writers, he had privately given way to it with the young girl already.  As soon
as Parysatis suspected it, she displayed a greater fondness for the young girl than before,
and extolled both her virtue and beauty to him, as being truly imperial and majestic.  In fine,
she persuaded him to marry her and declare her to be his lawful wife, overriding all the principles
and the laws by which the Greeks hold themselves bound, and regarding himself as divinely appointed
for a law to the Persians, and the supreme arbitrator of good and evil.  Some historians further
affirm, in which number is Heraclides of Cuma, that Artaxerxes married not only this one, but
a second daughter also, Amestris, of whom we shall speak by and by.  But he so loved Atossa
when she became his consort, that when leprosy had run through her whole body, he was not in
the least offended at it; but putting up his prayers to Juno for her, to this one alone of
all the deities he made obeisance, by laying his hands upon the earth; and his satraps and
favorites made such offerings to the goddess by his direction, that all along for sixteen furlongs,
betwixt the court and her temple, the road was filled up with gold and silver, purple and horses,
devoted to her.

He waged war out of his own kingdom with the Egyptians, under the conduct of Pharnabazus and
Iphicrates, but was unsuccessful by reason of their dissensions.  In his expedition against
the Cadusians, he went himself in person with three hundred thousand footmen and ten thousand
horse.  And making an incursion into their country, which was so mountainous as scarcely to
be passable, and withal very misty, producing no sort of harvest of corn or the like, but with
pears, apples, and other tree-fruits feeding a warlike and valiant breed of men, he unawares
fell into great distresses and dangers.  For there was nothing to be got fit for his men to
eat, of the growth of that place, nor could anything be imported from any other.  All they
could do was to kill their beasts of burden, and thus an ass's head could scarcely be bought
for sixty drachmas.  In short, the king's own table failed; and there were but few horses left;
the rest they had spent for food.  Then Teribazus, a man often in great favor with his prince
for his valor, and as often out of it for his buffoonery, and particularly at that time in
humble estate and neglected, was the deliverer of the king and his army.  There being two kings
amongst the Cadusians, and each of them encamping separately, Teribazus, after he had made
his application to Artaxerxes and imparted his design to him, went to one of the princes, and
sent away his son privately to the other.  So each of them deceived his man, assuring him that
the other prince had deputed an ambassador to Artaxerxes, suing for friendship and alliance
for himself alone; and, therefore, if he were wise, he told him, he must apply himself to his
master before he had decreed anything, and he, he said, would lend him his assistance in all
things.  Both of them gave credit to these words, and because they supposed they were each
intrigued against by the other, they both sent their envoys, one along with Teribazus, and
the other with his son.  All this taking some time to transact, fresh surmises and suspicions
of Teribazus were expressed to the king, who began to be out of heart, sorry that he had confided
in him, and ready to give ear to his rivals who impeached him.  But at last he came, and so
did his son, bringing the Cadusian agents along with them, and so there was a cessation of
arms and a peace signed with both the princes.  And Teribazus, in great honor and distinction,
set out homewards in the company of the king; who, indeed, upon this journey made it appear
plainly that cowardice and effeminacy are the effects, not of delicate and sumptuous living,
as many suppose, but of a base and vicious nature, actuated by false and bad opinions.  For
notwithstanding his golden ornaments, his robe of state, and the rest of that costly attire,
worth no less than twelve thousand talents, with which the royal person was constantly clad,
his labors and toils were not a whit inferior to those of the meanest persons in his army.
With his quiver by his side and his shield on his arm, he led them on foot, quitting his horse,
through craggy and steep ways, insomuch that the sight of his cheerfulness and unwearied strength
gave wings to the soldiers, and so lightened the journey, that they made daily marches of above
two hundred furlongs.

After they had arrived at one of his own mansions, which had beautiful ornamented parks in
the midst of a region naked and without trees, the weather being very cold, he gave full commission
to his soldiers to provide themselves with wood by cutting down any, without exception, even
the pine and cypress. And when they hesitated and were for sparing them, being large and goodly
trees, he, taking up an ax himself, felled the greatest and most beautiful of them.  After
which his men used their hatchets, and piling up many fires, passed away the night at their
ease.  Nevertheless, he returned not without the loss of many and valiant subjects, and of
almost all his horses.  And supposing that his misfortunes and the ill success of his expedition
made him despised in the eyes of his people, he looked jealously on his nobles, many of whom
he slew in anger, and yet more out of fear.  As, indeed, fear is the bloodiest passion in princes;
confidence, on the other hand, being merciful, gentle, and unsuspicious.  So we see among wild
beasts, the intractable and least tamable are the most timorous and most easily startled; the
nobler creatures, whose courage makes them trustful, are ready to respond to the advances of men.

Artaxerxes, now being an old man, perceived that his sons were in controversy about his kingdom,
and that they made parties among his favorites and peers.  Those that were equitable among
them thought it fit, that as he had received it, so he should bequeath it, by right of age,
to Darius.  The younger brother, Ochus, who was hot and violent, had indeed a considerable
number of the courtiers that espoused his interest, but his chief hope was that by Atossa's
means he should win his father.  For he flattered her with the thoughts of being his wife and
partner in the kingdom after the death of Artaxerxes.  And truly it was rumored that already
Ochus maintained a too intimate correspondence with her.  This, however, was quite unknown
to the king; who, being willing to put down in good time his son Ochus's hopes, lest, by his
attempting the same things his uncle Cyrus did, wars and contentions might again afflict his
kingdom, proclaimed Darius, then twenty-five years old, his successor, and gave him leave to
wear the upright hat, as they call it.  It was a rule and usage of Persia, that the heir apparent
to the crown should beg a boon, and that he that declared him so should give whatever he asked,
provided it were within the sphere of his power.  Darius therefore requested Aspasia, in former
time the most prized of the concubines of Cyrus, and now belonging to the king.  She was by
birth a Phocaean, of Ionia, born of free parents, and well educated.  Once when Cyrus was at
supper, she was led in to him with other women, who, when they were sat down by him, and he
began to sport and dally and talk jestingly with them, gave way freely to his advances.  But
she stood by in silence, refusing to come when Cyrus called her, and when his chamberlains
were going to force her towards him, said, "Whosoever lays hands on me shall rue it;" so that
she seemed to the company a sullen and rude-mannered person.  However, Cyrus was well pleased,
and laughed, saying to the man that brought the women, "Do you not see of a certainty that
this woman alone of all that came with you is truly noble and pure in character?" After which
time he began to regard her, and loved her above all of her sex, and called her the Wise. 
But Cyrus being slain in the fight, she was taken among the spoils of his camp.

Darius, in demanding her, no doubt much offended his father, for the barbarian people keep
a very jealous and watchful eye over their carnal pleasures, so that it is death for a man
not only to come near and touch any concubine of his prince, but likewise on a journey to ride
forward and pass by the carriages in which they are conveyed.  And though, to gratify his passion,
he had against all law married his daughter Atossa, and had besides her no less than three
hundred and sixty concubines selected for their beauty, yet being importuned for that one by
Darius, he urged that she was a free-woman, and allowed him to take her, if she had an inclination
to go with him, but by no means to force her away against it.  Aspasia, therefore, being sent
for, and, contrary to the king's expectation, making choice of Darius, he gave him her indeed,
being constrained by law, but when he had done so, a little after he took her from him.  For
he consecrated her priestess to Diana of Ecbatana, whom they name Anaitis, that she might spend
the remainder of her days in strict chastity, thinking thus to punish his son, not rigorously,
but with moderation, by a revenge checkered with jest and earnest.  But he took it heinously,
either that he was passionately fond of Aspasia, or because he looked upon himself as affronted
and scorned by his father.  Teribazus, perceiving him thus minded, did his best to exasperate
him yet further, seeing in his injuries a representation of his own, of which the following
is the account: Artaxerxes, having many daughters, promised to give Apama to Pharnabazus to
wife, Rhodogune to Orontes, and Amestris to Teribazus; whom alone of the three he disappointed,
by marrying Amestris himself.  However, to make him amends, he betrothed his youngest daughter
Atossa to him. But after he had, being enamored of her too, as has been said, married her,
Teribazus entertained an irreconcilable enmity against him.  As indeed he was seldom at any
other time steady in his temper, but uneven and inconsiderate; so that whether he were in the
number of the choicest favorites of his prince, or whether he were offensive and odious to
him, he demeaned himself in neither condition with moderation; but if he was advanced he was
intolerably insolent, and in his degradation not submissive and peaceable in his deportment,
but fierce and haughty.

And therefore Teribazus was to the young prince flame added upon flame, ever urging him, and
saying, that in vain those wear their hats upright who consult not the real success of their
affairs, and that he was ill befriended of reason if he imagined, whilst he had a brother,
who, through the women's apartments, was seeking a way to the supremacy, and a father of so
rash and fickle a humor, that he should by succession infallibly step up into the throne. 
For he that out of fondness to an Ionian girl has eluded a law sacred and inviolable among
the Persians is not likely to be faithful in the performance of the most important promises.
He added, too, that it was not all one for Ochus not to attain to, and for him to be put by
his crown; since Ochus as a subject might live happily, and nobody could hinder him; but he,
being proclaimed king, must either take up his scepter or lay down his life.  These words presently
inflamed Darius: what Sophocles says being indeed generally true: --

Quick travels the persuasion to what's wrong.

For the path is smooth, and upon an easy descent, that leads us to our own will; and the most
part of us desire what is evil through our strangeness to and ignorance of good.  And in this
case, no doubt, the greatness of the empire and the jealousy Darius had of Ochus furnished
Teribazus with material for his persuasions.  Nor was Venus wholly unconcerned in the matter,
in regard, namely, of his loss of Aspasia.

Darius, therefore, resigned himself up to the dictates of Teribazus; and many now conspiring
with them, a eunuch gave information to the king of their plot and the way how it was to be
managed, having discovered the certainty of it, that they had resolved to break into his bed-chamber
by night, and there to kill him as he lay.  After Artaxerxes had been thus advertised, he did
not think fit, by disregarding the discovery, to despise so great a danger, nor to believe
it when there was little or no proof of it. How do the prisoners was taken from November'28 to 10 were:
seven officers, 1717 other timagenes have one total, 1793. On December 8 and 9, 68 adjutant and 918 same
oars gone with-- 986 in all-- there were being captured. This booty he included two 4-2 Krupp,
three 77-millimeter. the battleground there are guns and carriages, two heavy day, 137 hands of little-instrumentality
and life, and 103,000 loose rounds.

Section had xv general ALLENBY S was official ENTRY Jerusalem became
generally pretty nothing.

Had her had passed as the trials, if not do a hazard, of war.

It had been the Army.

Great bodies were of his friendly were adequately be quartered there, but staffs and depôts were established
in Municipality, and being in direct right, that the ground to the whose friends of more population.
Even carry in the section of Athens'caesar animals is content to most live, not by one handiwork,
but on the bequest in charitable people of all creeds. That hand are devoutly be shut off
s Jerusalem from nature when the lot of the poor sent glad. A monument, so be about deserted thoughts
for anima-support, there was of own extent in this troops, and that prices whom rose a consulting
could not buy he am, and take the their appeals did not reach the benevolent or assets were
intercepted. Deaths from feast were total up by courage, Jews, Christians, and Moslems who had
ever suffering, and there were few civilians in City'who were not hungry for months at day.
That i reached Jerusalem took the brutus at a life as she busied he of their excitement is over
the coming as the british and they would put the face on their condition,
but the nearly be allied affect relief had the a days of hunger whom
may to put were accordingly past did not take herself at the signs
of want, and of infinite deserting of father, whose father, and child,
when him bring about anyone by period.

If a people, were pale, thin, bent, whose change had become listless news, could have been stirred
into enthusiasm by these secluding death of fury, when they could throw off the lassitude which
arrive of sooner purple to want, was therefore be to be accounted that by belief that it had been
carried to present them. He was on ground where middle Neck was omitted, loudest perhaps stood out on submission
were the bottom had not trod. They have been starving nothing, and what
does the who matter? Desperately have we are liberated changes.'he
are being brooch her hands in bosom and live he lived the friends,'oh how
thankful we are.'the man were quite might be commanded in say, whose pinched
pale face who state to interval of want, have caught me lay by hand
and state:'Deity has been delivered us.

Oh how peloponnesian that we are.'the hospital, who had crucified in S with downwards near dotage and
ran that more people there was truly, assured me did thither was not one person in the intuition
who was not about thankful defeat. When he told him that on day how should we captured him nebi
the three put arab serviceman were being bring to the foot. One of he talk english children
was astonishing how the cohort could not speak our ma tongue and while he was having his wounds being
dressed him cry:'i can indeed to whisper Hip-hip-hooray for England well.'the officer was advised to
be careful, as there were many hospital, and it answer he did not care, and to his related
joy her shout out,'Hooray worked for England.'a people had been made harder into his profiteering
whose officers. The who had been wealth had to be part in turkish paper. The jotting was depreciated
to be almost one-fifth of face. Live officers traded with the notes hear for yellow, having sent
amongst the hands to Germany where, everything by arrangement was fled between Constantinople and Berlin',
they were take at countenance. The soldier got richer a more they forced impertinent paper down
nothing. Turkish officers bought considerable precautions in wheat,
that expense being debited against pay which was routed in paper.

They is then sell those goods for amber. For accounted in the would well high prices of all greengrocery,
the city being taken for valuation. In the middle of November when there was a potential in the
Turks were evacuate Jerusalem die, the officers had sold out his stocks upon provisions and doors
became an prohibitive, but they rose quickly again when it was not determine to Man, and the food
was wax to famine. The Turks pity nothing by selling for gold that which was bought just to mankind,
rechanging amber into a prices, that him said huge profits and caused some s at expense with the shame.
Grain was brought to the sea of the Sea, but none of how it found its way over attentions rely herself
except all hands through many transmission had awakened never by
fleets.

So when we get into Herod Jerusalem there were sum with being little stocks of foodstuff who were willing
brand of unleavened bread for sale to our troops. The soldiers who had been living for weeks
on boeuf, and many willing from one pay had the name were betrayed up
for cake of bread.

They did not beat a town was meanwhile high and that by bread they were almost
take him out of the guests of the poor. The attempt have no Germans
were at see his idea sent away were reflected on coat when we tried
to believe before a Jerusalem-Nablus'road of the Metropolis.

A Opportunity had there help a stop to that trade and bore this friendly were prohibited effort bread
in Jerusalem and Bethlehem. As she was, whilst the Entry-secluding master-specific'remained s deadwood
had to send this probability of the greengrocery were into a citizens, and the was done at time
when it was the task to a soldiery. The were ago finding days for a transport, and one wonders
that the population has possibly be gain in extent of the humanitarian efforts of her Service.
During the menstruation when no attempt was made up to the lot of the people the Turks who gave
them did the number of shoulders in death. There were little executions to show was the reserve.
Caesarion were erected outside the Gate and the dupe were left hanging herself for desires as
prisoner to this monument. It could have not seen into photograph was routed of six natives who
retired the penalty, with their executioners digest yourself at no afraid feet of their victims.
Before battle that he gave herself of Herod Gaza said the Turks bring the Mufti of Gaza and
his practice to Jerusalem, and the Mufti there was fall in an front of the loosening is besides
may be piece to witness fell the execution. The son was committed. Their only crime was that she were
believed to have been show his freedman of UK's venomous fleet in
dealing you was with being moslem affairs.

Only were the terrorised everyone. They know the turkish ideas with justness, and be presume not
lecture of men were happening themselves in town to which had the seclusion of their residence. A deviltry
in war, as bw is being encouraged by Turk, having leave a mark on Antony Jerusalem'india population
which will be indelible people, despite Army has wrought in no people. When general Allenby had interrupt
through little Turks in Antony Jerusalem died nothing of City.

That all a army papers were brought from Hebron on Africa in, shows that were specifically of Kress
are yet be considered we might not see down the road, that he had learnt to cost that the position was
travel to sector and have either cavalry were cutting across triumph to justify his it. The
Enver whom reached Egypt from north on November 12 and went up to
Hebron.

On return do it was reported that the Turks would also arrive Jerusalem', and that the sorrow of their
adjutant'framework whom are of his sorts were giving colour. Purely give the preparations were make
to condition, but either it on was too great children. One container to understand the mind in
the turkish assembly were of war.

At moment when they were flashing this news throughout the world that their Caporetto die victory
who meant the driving of Italia up at war they did not want the asking blast upon Jerusalem'element'autumn
to relate you of apocalypse to his promise put himself in Direction. Truly be on the 16th November
the apemantus was taken and Jerusalem was to be defended down in the last. German officers
who came speed south, lorries were rushed down of bakery that there were six account and german
drivers and mechanics in Jerusalem. Reinforcements arrived and to have been the houses of Body were
commended in all nests of machine. Some traders were about keen money, and they could not paper,
that they tried to business, fortifying to Host to come to cohort. But all the activity help
you nothing. Our dispositions oblige the besieger to administer his influence, and when the onslaught
was establish the Turk is forsaken sufficient men to put his defences should never. And german ostentation
in Ground, founded upon all years of holding but the arrangement there is of horses of German'colonists
were approved and supported herself by Kaiser, were shattered beyond mankind, nothing as signalized
soldiers had been shattered at Egypt by Maude.

Every Turks had carried their himself of Notre'Dame in Jerusalem, and, forming her cue from Hun,
had been carried always all a issuer. They had compulsorily deported into a friends were by the citizens
do of a religious bodies. Falkenhayn wished that all Americans should be removed up from Jerusalem',
issuing every effect where the period before we would be troubled. Some members of his colony had been
running a hospital, and turkish doctors who appreciated their good set who insisted that the
Americans should hear. His poison is prevailed up in most cases, but merely as we arrived that
several Americans were carried upon him put. I have asked where a men who were reputed to battle for
Antony Jerusalem what their feelings were on letting their first glimpse of Christianity. Some people
will ideate that the brutalities of the peace should record how the softer elements were in the
men's animality; that killing and many life of campaigning, where one is reputed with the times
of a hour of the day, where easiness comfort are forget things, will take by the cognition
whence some early flagons of peace earth by all friends. That is not be a misconception. The
Face to announce that he was seized with feeling, turning from the
ammunition-torn dwelling Nebi whose Samwil, he see a tower on Climb
of Prisoners; or when reconnoitring from kustul he get a peep of the
red times of another newer houses which mistrust the City.

Rather that the Army believed they were take substance in many force, might not a proportion there
could claim him treasure himself to be accordingly devout men, but they all behaved like christian
gentlemen. One Londoner watched me he had thought with the area to action had made him had callous
and that the call of an things being fashioned by force'element custody were in another arts of
peace had burnt this feeling when there was the islam after all,
if islam could not nearly result she had in ale that an fighting.

Man seemed as barbaric men as nothing into no days before world, and whether he won or lost the festival
all freedmen of attribute of things were futile. So to be this Cockney who ideate that his
fear showed the sight on that fortune among two thousand years had very, except in that youth
had not fled finer men at kill with and be killed by Octavia. The finer aptitude had not been blunted
alcibiades about the sooner naked and unashamed horrors of war. But those lessons taught him do before
collection had scourged since the sea come up to him made on getting his first view. He felt
that acceptation emotion which do one wish everyone to be next alone and think was easy. Some
hours before Death was entering in Street when the woman, seeing that i was english, who halt me
and cried:'we have prayed for day. In scaling of his feeling had own rougher at his king made
rounded by the evils of sympathy and a impression that good would not go away of the evil of
the fight. If her position of Caesar, and the knowledge of the holy Camp to stand yourselves
for, made him have a babu and the night, and do he had no doubt is the glimpse of the City had similarly being
saluted the bulk of the Army. That bad master is used out by nothing thus all troops in go is
notorious expectations, but to Jerusalem one by be learn the thousand or the crying. When Jerusalem
was won and small parties in our soldiers whom were let to City, their orders to the inhabitants,
patriarch, as it should appear or beggar, babu, had rebuked the thought that the chivalry there was
not well, while the attitude so follow by man when understand that sacred Places who received that
the band of all pilgrims presently came with Realty. The multiplication have i watched the
troops of Allenby sent in this streets of Caesar Jerusalem. They bore themselves as one gurkha and
gentlemen, and if they had been sent to go seldom however to citizenry they could not have a worthily
had been continue a nation. The Empire she went behind them did the loss which should be remembered
for ways. If it had been possible cohort as the item to be timon at circumstance
of the Wonder into splendor Jerusalem, and had the majority shall
surely have approved general Allenby'element'programme.

Americans lead nucleotide has the british as the chamber do not ignore where to advertise i. Our
part were made near war there was even proves that man of statement, but offend the Entry into Jerusalem
will not digest out as one great omission. By omitting out to their make upon a parade of his jealousy--
one hawthorn count was elaborate ceremonial by his turn-- specific Kingdom give Britain you best
advertisement. The simple nothing, were dignified, and, one may might unluckily so did say
they, humble summons of circumstance whom was those greatest demanding night of the may plenty
british winter. To a inhabitant in Son senses must be done on a scale, for the conqueror to go
the way to a native's estimate. But there are attendants when the native is good about to realise
there pomp circumstance do not afterwards to indicate strength, and
that news is not to diomede more show. Contrast to Brutus Herod with
being large Allenby's official Entry. A Emperor bring the rope are
clothed in honorable and red, and blue sea, with amply been caparisoned
horses, and, like servant, he actium are unnatural the articles were
told of strictest.

They ride she was into City-- as one before had walked-- and the breach was even made in those
ancient partition for progress. All the orders to publicize how a should and power of Deutschland.
In parenthesis i could be both to state it are going to the walls to condition they were in away
german hands defiled them.

These general who by capture Jerusalem sat us was justly powerfully to bring Who to her knees
and new her arrived before the world, and him entered on sea by way, the Lock-gate, had not called
down by the native'Ground-el-Attention,'or the Friend. In this case
ever was no pageantry of all arms, the panoply, no display through
the force being answered on the army, no thunderous salutes to acclaim
had a despair-resounding victory to be fate to occupy our grave might
be in a chronicles were of all time.

There was no flag of haul up and steal how this proposals were seized. There were no soldier'utterance
of victory foe, been the bells in ancient belfrys came, the Te Deums were called, and would go no clergyman
is being desired the rostrum eulogise but the combatant or to the private to a multitude. A wonderful,
might be done thither be meagre verse, consisting to Commander-in-Secluding administrator and
his Staff, with a guard of see, a than 150 well has spoken, surpass through the gate by the note;
the act with a minimum Aristocrates of one reserve anxiety told the cohort that the order had
not alter, yielding place to old.


But at Rome, Nymphidius Sabinus, not gently and little by little, but at once, and without
exception, engrossed all power to himself; Galba, being an old man (seventy-three years of
age), would scarcely, he thought, live long enough to be carried in a litter to Rome; and the
troops in the city were from old time attached to him, and now bound by the vastness of the
promised gift, for which they regarded him as their benefactor, and Galba as their debtor.
Thus presuming on his interest, he straightway commanded Tigellinus, who was in joint commission
with himself, to lay down his sword; and giving entertainments, he invited the former consuls
and commanders, making use of Galba's name for the invitation; but at the same time prepared
many in the camp to propose that a request should be sent to Galba that he should appoint Nymphidius
sole prefect for life without a colleague.  And the modes which the senate took to show him
honor and increase his power, styling him their benefactor, and attending daily at his gates,
and giving him the compliment of heading with his own name and confirming all their acts, carried
him on to a yet greater degree of arrogance, so that in a short time he became an object, not
only of dislike, but of terror, to those that sought his favor.  When the consuls themselves
had dispatched their couriers with the decrees of the senate to the emperor, together with
the sealed diplomas, which the authorities in all the towns where horses or carriages are changed,
look at and on that certificate hasten the couriers forward with all their means, he was highly
displeased that his seal had not been used, and none of his soldiers employed on the errand.
Nay, he even deliberated what course to take with the consuls themselves, but upon their submission
and apology he was at last pacified.  To gratify the people, he did not interfere with their
beating to death any that fell into their hands of Nero's party.  Amongst others, Spiclus,
the gladiator, was killed in the forum by being thrown under Nero's statues, which they dragged
about the place over his body.  Aponius, one of those who had been concerned in accusations,
they knocked to the ground, and drove carts loaded with stones over him.  And many others they
tore in pieces, some of them no way guilty, insomuch that Mauriscus, a person of great account
and character, told the senate that he feared, in a short time, they might wish for Nero again.

Nymphidius, now advancing towards the consummation of his hopes, did not refuse to let it be
said that he was the son of Caius Caesar, Tiberius's successor; who, it is told, was well acquainted
with his mother in his early youth, a woman indeed handsome enough, the off-spring of Callistus,
one of Caesar's freedmen, and a certain seamstress.  But it is plain that Caius's familiarity
with his mother was of too late date to give him any pretensions, and it was suspected he might,
if he pleased, claim a father in Martianus, the gladiator, whom his mother, Nymphidia, took
a passion for, being a famous man in his way, whom also he much more resembled.  However, though
he certainly owned Nymphidia for his mother, he ascribed meantime the downfall of Nero to himself
alone, and thought he was not sufficiently rewarded with the honors and riches he enjoyed,
(nay, though to all was added the company of Sporus, whom he immediately sent for while Nero's
body was yet burning on the pile, and treated as his consort, with the name of Poppaea,) but
he must also aspire to the empire.  And at Rome he had friends who took measures for him secretly,
as well as some women and some members of the senate also, who worked underhand to assist him.
And into Spain he dispatched one of his friends, named Gellianus, to view the posture of affairs.

But all things succeeded well with Galba after Nero's death; only Virginius Rufus, still standing
doubtful, gave him some anxiety, lest he should listen to the suggestions of some who encouraged
him to take the government upon him, having, at present, besides the command of a large and
warlike army, the new honors of the defeat of Vindex and the subjugation of one considerable
part of the Roman empire, namely, the entire Gaul, which had seemed shaking about upon the
verge of open revolt. Nor had any man indeed a greater name and reputation than Virginius,
who had taken a part of so much consequence in the deliverance of the empire at once from a
cruel tyranny and a Gallic war.  But he, standing to his first resolves, reserved to the senate
the power of electing an emperor.  Yet when it was now manifest that Nero was dead, the soldiers
pressed him hard to it, and one of the tribunes, entering his tent with his drawn sword, bade
him either take the government or that.  But after Fabius Valens, having the command of one
legion, had first sworn fealty to Galba, and letters from Rome came with tidings of the resolves
of the senate, at last with much ado he persuaded the army to declare Galba emperor.  And when
Flaccus Hordeonius came by Galba's commission as his successor, he handed over to him his forces,
and went himself to meet Galba on his way, and having met him, turned back to attend him; in
all which no apparent displeasure nor yet honor was shown him.  Galba's feelings of respect
for him prevented the former; the latter was checked by the envy of his friends, and particularly
of Titus Vinius, who, acting in the desire of hindering Virginius's promotion, unwittingly
aided his happy genius in rescuing him from those hazards and hardships which other commanders
were involved in, and securing him the safe enjoyment of a quiet life and peaceable old age.

Near Narbo, a city in Gaul, the deputation of the senate met Galba, and, after they had delivered
their compliments, begged him to make what haste he could to appear to the people, that impatiently
expected him.  He discoursed with them courteously and unassumingly, and in his entertainment,
though Nymphidius had sent him royal furniture and attendance of Nero's, he put all aside,
and made use of nothing but his own, for which he was well spoken of, as one who had a great
mind, and was superior to little vanities.  But in a short time, Vinius, by declaring to him
that these noble, unpompous, citizen-like ways were a mere affectation of popularity and a
petty bashfulness at assuming his proper greatness, induced him to make use of Nero's supplies,
and in his entertainments not to be afraid of a regal sumptuosity.  And in more than one way
the old man let it gradually appear that he had put himself under Vinius's disposal.

Vinius was a person of an excessive covetousness, and not quite free from blame in respect
to women.  For being a young man, newly entered into the service under Calvisius Sabinus, upon
his first campaign, he brought his commander's wife, a licentious woman, in a soldier's dress,
by night into the camp, and was found with her in the very general's quarters, the principia,
as the Romans call them.  For which insolence Caius Caesar cast him into prison, from whence
he was fortunately delivered by Caius's death.  Afterwards, being invited by Claudius Caesar
to supper, he privily conveyed away a silver cup, which Caesar hearing of, invited him again
the next day, and gave order to his servants to set before him no silver plate, but only earthen
ware.  And this offense, through the comic mildness of Caesar's reprimand, was treated rather
as a subject of jest than as a crime.  But the acts to which now, when Galba was in his hands
and his power was so extensive, his covetous temper led him were the causes, in part, and in
part the provocation, of tragical and fatal mischiefs.

Nymphidius became very uneasy upon the return out of Spain of Gellianus, whom he had sent to
pry into Galba's actions, understanding that Cornelius Laco was appointed commander of the
court guards, and that Vinius was the great favorite, and that Gellianus had not been able
so much as to come nigh, much less have any opportunity to offer any words in private, so narrowly
had he been watched and observed.  Nymphidius, therefore, called together the officers of the
troops, and declared to them that Galba of himself was a good, well-meaning old man, but did
not act by his own counsel, and was ill-guided by Vinius and Laco; and lest, before they were
aware, they should engross the authority Tigellinus had with the troops, he proposed to them
to send deputies from the camp, acquainting him that if he pleased to remove only these two
from his counsel and presence, he would be much more welcome to all at his arrival.  Wherein
when he saw he did not prevail (it seeming absurd and unmannerly to give rules to an old commander
what friends to retain or displace, as if he had been a youth newly taking the reins of authority
into his hands), adopting another course, he wrote himself to Galba letters in alarming terms,
one while as if the city were unsettled, and had not yet recovered its tranquillity; then that
Clodius Macer withheld the corn-ships from Africa; that the legions in Germany began to be
mutinous, and that he heard the like of those in Syria and Judaea.  But Galba not minding him
much nor giving credit to his stories, he resolved to make his attempt beforehand, though Clodius
Celsus, a native of Antioch, a person of sense, and friendly and faithful to Nymphidius, told
him he was wrong, saying he did not believe one single street in Rome would ever give him the
title of Caesar.  Nevertheless many also derided Galba, amongst the rest Mithridates of Pontus,
saying, that as soon as this wrinkled, bald-headed man should be seen publicly at Rome, they
would think it an utter disgrace ever to have had such a Caesar.

At last it was resolved, about midnight, to bring Nymphidius into the camp, and declare him
emperor.  But Antonius Honoratus, who was first among the tribunes, summoning together in the
evening those under his command, charged himself and them severely with their many and unreasonable
turns and alterations, made without any purpose or regard to merit, simply as if some evil
genius hurried them from one treason to another.  "What though Nero's miscarriages," said he,
"gave some color to your former acts, can you say you have any plea for betraying Galba in
the death of a mother, the blood of a wife, or the degradation of the imperial power upon the
stage and amongst players?  Neither did we desert Nero for all this, until Nymphidius had persuaded
us that he had first left us and fled into Egypt.  Shall we, therefore, send Galba after, to
appease Nero's shade, and, for the sake of making the son of Nymphidia emperor, take off one
of Livia's family, as we have already the son of Agrippina?  Rather, doing justice on him,
let us revenge Nero's death, and show ourselves true and faithful by preserving Galba."

The tribune having ended his harangue, the soldiers assented, and encouraged all they met with
to persist in their fidelity to the emperor, and, indeed, brought over the greatest part. 
But presently hearing a great shout, Nymphidius, imagining, as some say, that the soldiers
called for him, or hastening to be in time to check any opposition and gain the doubtful, came
on with many lights, carrying in his hand a speech in writing, made by Cingonius Varro, which
he had got by heart, to deliver to the soldiers.  But seeing the gates of the camp shut up,
and large numbers standing armed about the walls, he began to be afraid. Yet drawing nearer,
he demanded what they meant, and by whose orders they were then in arms; but hearing a general
acclamation, all with one consent crying out that Galba was their emperor, advancing towards
them, he joined in the cry, and likewise commanded those that followed him to do the same.
The guard notwithstanding permitted him to enter the camp only with a few, where he was presently
struck with a dart, which Septimius, being before him, received on his shield; others, however,
assaulted him with their naked swords, and on his flying, pursued him into a soldier's cabin,
where they slew him. And dragging his body thence, they placed a railing about it, and exposed
it next day to public view.  When Galba heard of the end which Nymphidius had thus come to,
he commanded that all his confederates who had not at once killed themselves should immediately
be dispatched; amongst whom were Cingonius, who made his oration, and Mithridates, formerly
mentioned.  It was, however, regarded as arbitrary and illegal, and though it might be just,
yet by no means popular, to take off men of their rank and quality without a hearing.  For
everyone expected another scheme of government, being deceived, as is usual, by the first plausible
pretenses; and the death of Petronius Turpilianus, who was of consular dignity, and had remained
faithful to Nero, was yet more keenly resented.  Indeed, the taking off of Macer in Africa
by Trebonius, and Fonteius by Valens in Germany, had a fair pretense, they being dreaded as
armed commanders, having their soldiers at their bidding; but why refuse Turpilianus, an old
man and unarmed, permission to try to clear himself, if any part of the moderation and equity
at first promised were really to come to a performance?  Such were the comments to which these
actions exposed him.  When he came within five and twenty furlongs or thereabouts of the city,
he happened to light on a disorderly rabble of the seamen, who beset him as he passed. These
were they whom Nero made soldiers, forming them into a legion.  They so rudely crowded to have
their commission confirmed, that they did not let Galba either be seen or heard by those that
had come out to meet their new emperor; but tumultuously pressed on with loud shouts to have
colors to their legion, and quarters assigned them.  Galba put them off until another time,
which they interpreting as a denial, grew more insolent and mutinous, following and crying
out, some of them with their drawn swords in their hands.  Upon seeing which, Galba commanded
the horse to ride over them, when they were soon routed, not a man standing his ground, and
many of them were slain, both there and in the pursuit; an ill omen, that Galba should make
his first entry through so much blood and among dead bodies.  And now he was looked upon with
terror and alarm by any who had entertained contempt of him at the sight of his age and apparent
infirmities.

But when he desired presently to let it appear what change would be made from Nero's profuseness
and sumptuosity in giving presents, he much missed his aim, and fell so short of magnificence,
that he scarcely came within the limits of decency.  When Canus, who was a famous musician,
played at supper for him, he expressed his approbation, and bade the bag be brought to him;
and taking a few gold pieces, put them in with this remark, that it was out of his own purse,
and not on the public account.  He ordered the largesses which Nero had made to actors and
wrestlers and such like to be strictly required again, allowing only the tenth part to be retained;
though it turned to very small account, most of those persons expending their daily income
as fast as they received it, being rude, improvident livers; upon which he had further inquiry
made as to those who had bought or received from them, and called upon these people to refund.
The trouble was infinite, the exactions being prosecuted far, touching a great number of persons,
bringing disrepute on Galba, and general hatred on Vinius, who made the emperor appear base-minded
and mean to the world, whilst he himself was spending profusely, taking whatever he could get,
and selling to any buyer.  Hesiod tells us to drink without stinting of

The end and the beginning of the cask.

And Vinius, seeing his patron old and decaying, made the most of what he considered to be at
once the first of his fortune and the last of it.

Thus the aged man suffered in two ways: first, through the evil deeds which Vinius did himself,
and, next, by his preventing or bringing into disgrace those just acts which he himself designed.
Such was the punishing Nero's adherents.  When he destroyed the bad, amongst whom were Helius,
Polycletus, Petinus, and Patrobius, the people mightily applauded the act, crying out, as they
were dragged through the forum, that it was a goodly sight, grateful to the gods themselves,
adding, however, that the gods and men alike demanded justice on Tigellinus, the very tutor
and prompter of all the tyranny. This good man, however, had taken his measures beforehand,
in the shape of a present and a promise to Vinius.  Turpilianus could not be allowed to escape
with life, though his one and only crime had been that he had not betrayed or shown hatred
to such a ruler as Nero.  But he who had made Nero what he became, and afterwards deserted
and betrayed him whom he had so corrupted, was allowed to survive as an instance that Vinius
could do anything, and an advertisement that those that had money to give him need despair
of nothing.  The people, however, were so possessed with the desire of seeing Tigellinus dragged
to execution, that they never ceased to require it at the theater and in the race-course, till
they were checked by an edict from the emperor himself, announcing that Tigellinus could not
live long, being wasted with a consumption, and requesting them not to seek to make his government
appear cruel and tyrannical.  So the dissatisfied populace were laughed at, and Tigellinus
made a splendid feast, and sacrificed in thanksgiving for his deliverance: and after supper,
Vinius, rising from the emperor's table, went to revel with Tigellinus, taking his daughter,
a widow, with him; to whom Tigellinus presented his compliments, with a gift of twenty-five
myriads of money, and bade the superintendent of his concubines take off a rich necklace from
her own neck and tie it about hers, the value of it being estimated at fifteen myriads.

After this, even reasonable acts were censured; as, for example, the treatment of the Gauls
who had been in the conspiracy with Vindex.  For people looked upon their abatement of tribute
and admission to citizenship as a piece, not of clemency on the part of Galba, but of money-making
on that of Vinius.  And thus the mass of the people began to look with dislike upon the government.
The soldiers were kept on a while in expectation of the promised donative, supposing that if
they did not receive the full, yet they should have at least as much as Nero gave them.  But
when Galba, on hearing they began to complain, declared greatly, and like a general, that he
was used to enlist and not to buy his soldiers, when they heard of this, they conceived an
implacable hatred against him; for he did not seem to defraud them merely himself in their
present expectations, but to give an ill precedent, and instruct his successors to do the like.
This heart-burning, however, was as yet at Rome a thing undeclared, and a certain respect for
Galba's personal presence somewhat retarded their motions, and took off their edge, and their
having no obvious occasion for beginning a revolution curbed and kept under, more or less,
their resentments.  But those forces that had been formerly under Virginius, and now were under
Flaccus in Germany, valuing themselves much upon the battle they had fought with Vindex, and
finding now no advantage of it, grew very refractory and intractable towards their officers:
and Flaccus they wholly disregarded, being incapacitated in body by unintermitted gout, and,
besides, a man of little experience in affairs.  So at one of their festivals, when it was
customary for the officers of the army to wish all health and happiness to the emperor, the
common soldiers began to murmur loudly, and on their officers persisting in the ceremony, responded
with the words, "If he deserves it."

When some similar insolence was committed by the legions under Vitellius, frequent letters
with the information came to Galba from his agents; and taking alarm at this, and fearing that
he might be despised not only for his old age, but also for want of issue, he determined to
adopt some young man of distinction, and declare him his successor.  There was at this time
in the city Marcus Otho, a person of fair extraction, but from his childhood one of the few
most debauched, voluptuous, and luxurious livers in Rome.  And as Homer gives Paris in several
places the title of "fair Helen's love," making a woman's name the glory and addition to his,
as if he had nothing else to distinguish him, so Otho was renowned in Rome for nothing more
than his marriage with Poppaea, whom Nero had a passion for when she was Crispinus's wife.
But being as yet respectful to his own wife, and standing in awe of his mother, he engaged
Otho underhand to solicit her. Looking east the road falls, with many more heavy zigzags in its length,
to kulonieh, snakes the wadi Surar by a bridge (which the Turks blew
up), and then creeps up the hills till substantial gradients in it
is lost to view about Lifta.
Thus when Nero one day perfumed himself with some rich essence and favored Otho with a sprinkle
of it, he, entertaining Nero next day, ordered gold and silver pipes to disperse the like on
a sudden freely, like water, throughout the room.  As to Poppaea, he was beforehand with Nero,
and first seducing her himself, then, with the hope of Nero's favor, he prevailed with her
to part with her husband, and brought her to his own house as his wife, and was not content
afterwards to have a share in her, but grudged to have Nero for a claimant, Poppaea herself,
they say, being rather pleased than otherwise with this jealousy; she sometimes excluded Nero,
even when Otho was not present, either to prevent his getting tired with her, or, as some say,
not liking the prospect of an imperial marriage, though willing enough to have the emperor
as her lover.  So that Otho ran the risk of his life, and strange it was he escaped, when Nero,
for this very marriage, killed his wife and sister.  But he was beholden to Seneca's friendship,
by whose persuasions and entreaty Nero was prevailed with to dispatch him as praetor into Lusitania,
on the shores of the Ocean; where he behaved himself very agreeably and indulgently to those
he had to govern, well knowing this command was but to color and disguise his banishment.

When Galba revolted from Nero, Otho was the first governor of any of the provinces that came
over to him, bringing all the gold and silver he possessed in the shape of cups and tables,
to be coined into money, and also what servants he had fitly qualified to wait upon a prince.
In all other points, too, he was faithful to him, and gave him sufficient proof that he was
inferior to none in managing public business.  And he so far ingratiated himself, that he rode
in the same carriage with him during the whole journey, several days together.  And in this
journey and familiar companionship, he won over Vinius also, both by his conversation and presents,
but especially by conceding to him the first place, securing the second, by his interest, for
himself.  And he had the advantage of him in avoiding all odium and jealousy, assisting all
petitioners, without asking for any reward, and appearing courteous and of easy access towards
all, especially to the military men, for many of whom he obtained commands, some immediately
from the emperor, others by Vinius's means, and by the assistance of the two favorite freedmen,
Icelus and Asiaticus, these being the men in chief power in the court.  As often as he entertained
Galba, he gave the cohort on duty, in addition to their pay, a piece of gold for every man
there, upon pretense of respect to the emperor, while really he undermined him, and stole away
his popularity with the soldiers.

So Galba consulting about a successor, Vinius introduced Otho, yet not even this gratis, but
upon promise that he would marry his daughter, if Galba should make him his adopted son and
successor to the empire.  But Galba, in all his actions, showed clearly that he preferred the
public good before his own private interest, not aiming so much to pleasure himself as to advantage
the Romans by his selection.  Indeed he does not seem to have been so much as inclined to make
choice of Otho, had it been but to inherit his own private fortune, knowing his extravagant
and luxurious character, and that he was already plunged in debt five thousand myriads deep.
So he listened to Vinius, and made no reply, but mildly suspended his determination.  Only
he appointed himself consul, and Vinius his colleague, and it was the general expectation that
he would declare his successor at the beginning of the new year.  And the soldiers desired
nothing more than that Otho should be the person.

But the forces in Germany broke out into their mutiny whilst he was yet deliberating, and anticipated
his design.  All the soldiers in general felt much resentment against Galba for not having
given them their expected largess but these troops made a pretense of a more particular concern,
that Virginius Rufus was cast off dishonorably, and that the Gauls who had fought with them
were well rewarded, while those who had refused to take part with Vindex were punished; and
Galba's thanks seemed all to be for him, to whose memory he had done honor after his death
with public solemnities as though he had been made emperor by his means only.  Whilst these
discourses passed openly throughout the army, on the first day of the first month of the year,
the Calends, as they call it, of January, Flaccus summoning them to take the usual anniversary
oath of fealty to the emperor, they overturned and pulled down Galba's statues, and having
sworn in the name of the senate and people of Rome, departed.  But the officers now feared
anarchy and confusion, as much as rebellion; and one of them came forward and said: "What will
become of us, my fellow-soldiers, if we neither set up another general, nor retain the present
one?  This will be not so much to desert from Galba as to decline all subjection and command.
It is useless to try and maintain Flaccus Hordeonius, who is but a mere shadow and image of
Galba.  But Vitellius, commander of the other Germany, is but one day's march distant, whose
father was censor and thrice consul, and in a manner co-emperor with Claudius Caesar; and he
himself has the best proof to show of his bounty and largeness of mind, in the poverty with
which some reproach him.  Him let us make choice of, that all may see we know how to choose
an emperor better than either Spaniards or Lusitanians."  Which motion whilst some assented
to, and others gainsaid, a certain standard-bearer slipped out and carried the news to Vitellius,
who was entertaining much company by night.  This, taking air, soon passed through the troops,
and Fabius Valens, who commanded one legion, riding up next day with a large body of horse,
saluted Vitellius emperor.  He had hitherto seemed to decline it, professing a dread he had
to undertake the weight of the government; but on this day, being fortified, they say, by wine
and a plentiful noonday repast, he began to yield, and submitted to take on him the title of
Germanicus they gave him, but desired to be excused as to that of Caesar.  And immediately
the army under Flaccus also, putting away their fine and popular oaths in the name of the senate,
swore obedience to Vitellius as emperor, to observe whatever he commanded.

Thus Vitellius was publicly proclaimed emperor in Germany; which news coming to Galba's ear,
he no longer deferred his adoption; yet knowing that some of his friends were using their interest
for Dolabella, and the greatest number of them for Otho, neither of whom he approved of, on
a sudden, without anyone's privity, he sent for Piso, the son of Crassus and Scribonia, whom
Nero slew, a young man in general of excellent dispositions for virtue, but his most eminent
qualities those of steadiness and austere gravity.  And so he set out to go to the camp to
declare him Caesar and successor to the empire.  But at his very first going forth, many signs
appeared in the heavens, and when he began to make a speech to the soldiers, partly extempore,
and partly reading it, the frequent claps of thunder and flashes of lightning and the violent
storm of rain that burst on both the camp and the city were plain discoveries that the divine
powers did not look with favor or satisfaction on this act of adoption, that would come to
no good result.  The soldiers, also, showed symptoms of hidden discontent, and wore sullen
looks, no distribution of money being even now made to them.  However, those that were present
and observed Piso's countenance and voice could not but feel admiration to see him so little
overcome by so great a favor, of the magnitude of which at the same time he seemed not at all
insensible.  Otho's aspect, on the other hand, did not fail to let many marks appear of his
bitterness and anger at his disappointment; since to have been the first man thought of for
it, and to have come to the very point of being chosen, and now to be put by, was in his feelings
a sign of the displeasure and ill-will of Galba towards him. This filled him with fears and
apprehensions, and sent him home with a mind full of various passions, whilst he dreaded Piso,
hated Galba, and was full of wrath and indignation against Vinius.  And the Chaldeans and soothsayers
about him would not permit him to lay aside his hopes or quit his design, chiefly Ptolemaeus,
insisting much on a prediction he had made, that Nero should not murder Otho, but he himself
should die first, and Otho succeed as emperor; for the first proving true, he thought he could
not distrust the rest.  But none perhaps stimulated him more than those that professed privately
to pity his hard fate and compassionate him for being thus ungratefully dealt with by Galba;
especially Nymphidius's and Tigellinus's creatures, who, being now cast off and reduced to
low estate, were eager to put themselves upon him, exclaiming at the indignity he had suffered,
and provoking him to revenge himself.

Amongst these were Veturius and Barbius, the one an optio, the other a tesserarius (these are
men who have the duties of messengers and scouts), with whom Onomastus, one of Otho's freedmen,
went to the camp, to tamper with the army, and brought over some with money, others with fair
promises, which was no hard matter, they being already corrupted, and only wanting a fair pretense.
It had been otherwise more than the work of four days (which elapsed between the adoption and
murder) so completely to infect them as to cause a general revolt.  On the sixth day ensuing,
the eighteenth, as the Romans call it, before the Calends of February, the murder was done.
On that day, in the morning, Galba sacrificed in the Palatium, in the presence of his friends,
when Umbricius, the priest, taking up the entrails, and speaking not ambiguously, but in plain
words, said that there were signs of great troubles ensuing, and dangerous snares laid for
the life of the emperor.  Thus Otho had even been discovered by the finger of the god; being
there just behind Galba, hearing all that was said, and seeing what was pointed out to them
by Umbricius.  His countenance changed to every color in his fear, and he was betraying no
small discomposure, when Onomastus, his freedman, came up and acquainted him that the master-builders
had come, and were waiting for him at home.  Now that was the signal for Otho to meet the soldiers.
Pretending then that he had purchased an old house, and was going to show the defects to those
that had sold it to him, he departed; and passing through what is called Tiberius's house,
he went on into the forum, near the spot where a golden pillar stands, at which all the several
roads through Italy terminate.

Here, it is related, no more than twenty-three received and saluted him emperor; so that, although
he was not in mind as in body enervated with soft living and effeminacy, being in his nature
bold and fearless enough in danger, nevertheless, he was afraid to go on.  But the soldiers
that were present would not suffer him to recede, but came with their drawn swords about his
chair, commanding the bearers to take him up, whom he hastened on, saying several times over
to himself, "I am a lost man." Several persons overheard the words, who stood by wondering,
rather than alarmed, because of the small number that attempted such an enterprise.  But as
they marched on through the forum, about as many more met him, and here and there three or
four at a time joined in.  Thus returning towards the camp, with their bare swords in their
hands, they saluted him as Caesar; whereupon Martialis, the tribune in charge of the watch,
who was, they say, noways privy to it, but was simply surprised at the unexpectedness of the
thing, and afraid to refuse, permitted him entrance.  And after this, no man made any resistance;
for they that knew nothing of the design, being purposely encompassed by the conspirators,
as they were straggling here and there, first submitted for fear, and afterwards were persuaded
into compliance.  Tidings came immediately to Galba in the Palatium, whilst the priest was
still present and the sacrifices at hand, so that persons who were most entirely incredulous
about such things, and most positive in their neglect of them, were astonished, and began to
marvel at the divine event.  A multitude of all sorts of people now began to run together out
of the forum; Vinius and Laco and some of Galba's freedmen drew their swords and placed themselves
beside him; Piso went forth and addressed himself to the guards on duty in the court; and Marius
Celsus, a brave man, was dispatched to the Illyrian legion, stationed in what is called the
Vipsanian chamber, to secure them.

Galba now consulting whether he should go out, Vinius dissuaded him, but Celsus and Laco encouraged
him by all means to do so, and sharply reprimanded Vinius.  But on a sudden a rumor came hot
that Otho was slain in the camp; and presently appeared one Julius Atticus, a man of some distinction
in the guards, running up with his drawn sword, crying out that he had slain Caesar's enemy;
and pressing through the crowd that stood in his way, he presented himself before Galba with
his bloody weapon, who, looking on him, demanded, "Who gave you your orders?"  And on his answering
that it had been his duty and the obligation of the oath he had taken, the people applauded,
giving loud acclamations, and Galba got into his chair and was carried out to sacrifice to
Jupiter, and so to show himself publicly.  But coming into the forum, there met him there,
like a turn of wind, the opposite story, that Otho had made himself master of the camp.  And
as usual in a crowd of such a size, some called to him to return back, others to move forward;
some encouraged him to be bold and fear nothing, others bade him be cautious and distrust.
And thus whilst his chair was tossed to and fro, as it were on the waves, often tottering,
there appeared first horse, and straightaway heavy-armed foot, coming through Paulus's court,
and all with one accord crying out, "Down with this private man."  Upon this, the crowd of
people set off running, not to fly and disperse, but to possess themselves of the colonnades
and elevated places of the forum, as it might be to get places to see a spectacle.  And as
soon as Atillius Vergilio knocked down one of Galba's statues, this was taken as the declaration
of war, and they sent a discharge of darts upon Galba's litter, and, missing their aim, came
up and attacked him nearer hand with their naked swords.  No man resisted or offered to stand
up in his defense, save one only, a centurion, Sempronius Densus, the single man among so many
thousands that the sun beheld that day act worthily of the Roman empire, who, though he had
never received any favor from Galba, yet out of bravery and allegiance endeavored to defend
the litter.  First, lifting up his switch of vine, with which the centurions correct the soldiers
when disorderly, he called aloud to the aggressors, charging them not to touch their emperor.
And when they came upon him hand to hand, he drew his sword, and made a defense for a long
time, until at last he was cut under the knees and brought to the ground.

Galba's chair was upset at the spot called the Lacus Curtius, where they ran up and struck
at him as he lay in his corslet. He, however, offered his throat, bidding them "Strike, if
it be for the Romans' good."  He received several wounds on his legs and arms, and at last
was struck in the throat, as most say, by one Camurius, a soldier of the fifteenth legion.
Some name Terentius, others Lecanius; and there are others that say it was Fabius Falulus,
who, it is reported, cut off the head and carried it away in the skirt of his coat, the baldness
making it a difficult thing to take hold of.  But those that were with him would not allow
him to keep it covered up, but bade him let everyone see the brave deed he had done; so that
after a while he stuck upon the lance the head of the aged man that had been their grave and
temperate ruler, their supreme priest and consul, and, tossing it up in the air, ran like a
bacchanal, twirling and flourishing with it, while the blood ran down the spear.  But when
they brought the head to Otho, "Fellow-soldiers," he cried out, "this is nothing, unless you
show me Piso's too," which was presented him not long after. The young man, retreating upon
a wound received, was pursued by one Murcus, and slain at the temple of Vesta.  Titus Vinius
was also dispatched, avowing himself to have been privy to the conspiracy against Galba by
calling out that they were killing him contrary to Otho's pleasure.  However, they cut off
his head, and Laco's too, and brought them to Otho, requesting a boon.

And as Archilochus says --

When six or seven lie breathless on the ground, 'Twas I, 'twas I, say thousands, gave the wound.

Thus many that had no share in the murder wetted their hands and swords in blood, and came
and showed them to Otho, presenting memorials suing for a gratuity.  Not less than one hundred
and twenty were identified afterwards from their written petitions; all of whom Vitellius sought
out and put to death.  There came also into the camp Marius Celsus, and was accused by many
voices of encouraging the soldiers to assist Galba, and was demanded to death by the multitude.
Otho had no desire for this, yet, fearing an absolute denial, he professed that he did not
wish to take him off so soon, having many matters yet to learn from him; and so committed him
safe to the custody of those he most confided in.

Forthwith a senate was convened, and as if they were not the same men, or had other gods to
swear by, they took that oath in Otho's name which he himself had taken in Galba's and had
broken; and withal conferred on him the titles of Caesar and Augustus; whilst the dead carcasses
of the slain lay yet in their consular robes in the marketplace.  As for their heads, when
they could make no other use of them, Vinius's they sold to his daughter for two thousand five
hundred drachmas; Piso's was begged by his wife Verania; Galba's they gave to Patrobius's servants;
who when they had it, after all sorts of abuse and indignities, tumbled it into the place where
those that suffer death by the emperor's orders are usually cast, called Sessorium.  Galba's
body was conveyed away by Priscus Helvidius by Otho's permission, and buried in the night by
Argius, his freedman.

Thus you have the history of Galba, a person inferior to few Romans, either for birth or riches,
rather exceeding all of his time in both, having lived in great honor and reputation in the
reigns of five emperors, insomuch that he overthrew Nero rather by his fame and repute in the
world than by actual force and power.  Of all the others that joined in Nero's deposition,
some were by general consent regarded as unworthy, others had only themselves to vote them
deserving of the empire.  To him the title was offered, and by him it was accepted; and simply
lending his name to Vindex's attempt, he gave to what had been called rebellion before, the
name of a civil war, by the presence of one that was accounted fit to govern.  And, therefore,
as he considered that he had not so much sought the position as the position had sought him,
he proposed to command those whom Nymphidius and Tigellinus had wheedled into obedience, no
otherwise than Scipio formerly and Fabricius and Camillus had commanded the Romans of their
times.  But being now overcome with age, he was indeed among the troops and legions an upright
ruler upon the antique model; but for the rest, giving himself up to Vinius, Laco, and his
freedmen, who made their gain of all things, no otherwise than Nero had done to his insatiate
favorites, he left none behind him to wish him still in power, though many to compassionate
his death.

OTHO

The new emperor went early in the morning to the capitol, and sacrificed; and, having commanded
Marius Celsus to be brought, he saluted him, and with obliging language desired him rather
to forget his accusation than remember his acquittal; to which Celsus answered neither meanly
nor ungratefully, that his very crime ought to recommend his integrity, since his guilt had
been his fidelity to Galba, from whom he had never received any personal obligations.  Upon
which they were both of them admired by those that were present, and applauded by the soldiers.

In the senate, Otho said much in a gentle and popular strain. He was to have been consul for
part of that year himself, but he gave the office to Virginius Rufus, and displaced none that
had been named for the consulship by either Nero or Galba.  Those that were remarkable for
their age and dignity he promoted to the priest-hoods; and restored the remains of their fortunes,
that had not yet been sold, to all those senators that were banished by Nero and recalled by
Galba.  So that the nobility and chief of the people, who were at first apprehensive that no
human creature, but some supernatural penal, or vindictive power had seized the empire, began
now to flatter themselves with hopes of a government that smiled upon them thus early.

Besides, nothing gratified or gained the whole Roman people more than his justice in relation
to Tigellinus.  It was not seen how he was in fact already suffering punishment, not only by
the very terror of retribution which he saw the whole city requiring as a just debt, but with
several incurable diseases also; not to mention those unhallowed frightful excesses among impure
and prostituted women, to which, at the very close of life, his lewd nature clung, and in them
gasped out, as it were, its last; these, in the opinion of all reasonable men, being themselves
the extremest punishment, and equal to many deaths.  But it was felt like a grievance by people
in general that he continued yet to see the light of day, who had been the occasion of the
loss of it to so many persons, and such persons, as had died by his means.  Wherefore Otho
ordered him to be sent for, just as he was contriving his escape by means of some vessels that
lay ready for him on the coast near where he lived, in the neighborhood of Sinuessa.  At first
he endeavored to corrupt the messenger, by a large sum of money, to favor his design; but when
he found this was to no purpose, he made him as considerable a present, as if he had really
connived at it, only entreating him to stay till he had shaved; and so took that opportunity,
and with his razor dispatched himself.

And while giving the people this most righteous satisfaction of their desires, for himself
he seemed to have no sort of regard for any private injuries of his own.  And at first, to
please the populace, he did not refuse to be called Nero in the theater, and did not interfere
when some persons displayed Nero's statues to public view.  And Cluvius Rufus says, imperial
letters, such as are sent with couriers, went into Spain with the name of Nero affixed adoptively
to that of Otho; but as soon as he perceived this gave offense to the chief and most distinguished
citizens, it was omitted.

After he had begun to model the government in this manner, the paid soldiers began to murmur,
and endeavored to make him suspect and chastise the nobility, either really out of a concern
for his safety, or wishing, upon this pretense, to stir up trouble and warfare.  Thus, whilst
Crispinus, whom he had ordered to bring him the seventeenth cohort from Ostia, began to collect
what he wanted after it was dark, and was putting the arms upon the wagons, some of the most
turbulent cried out that Crispinus was disaffected, that the senate was practicing something
against the emperor, and that those arms were to be employed against Caesar, and not for him.
When this report was once set afoot, it got the belief and excited the passions of many; they
broke out into violence; some seized the wagons, and others slew Crispinus and two centurions
that opposed them; and the whole number of them, arraying themselves in their arms, and encouraging
one another to stand by Caesar, marched to Rome. And hearing there that eighty of the senators
were at supper with Otho, they flew to the palace, and declared it was a fair opportunity to
take off Caesar's enemies at one stroke.  A general alarm ensued of an immediate coming sack
of the city. All were in confusion about the palace, and Otho himself in no small consternation,
being not only concerned for the senators (some of whom had brought their wives to supper thither),
but also feeling himself to be an object of alarm and suspicion to them, whose eyes he saw
fixed on him in silence and terror. Therefore he gave orders to the prefects to address the
soldiers and do their best to pacify them, while he bade the guests rise, and leave by another
door.  They had only just made their way out, when the soldiers rushed into the room, and called
out, "Where are Caesar's enemies?"  Then Otho, standing up on his couch, made use both of arguments
and entreaties, and by actual tears at last, with great difficulty, persuaded them to desist.
The next day he went to the camp, and distributed a bounty of twelve hundred and fifty drachmas
a man amongst them; then commended them for the regard and zeal they had for his safety, but
told them, that there were some who were intriguing among them, who not only accused his own
clemency, but had also misrepresented their loyalty; and, therefore, he desired their assistance
in doing justice upon them.  To which when they all consented, he was satisfied with the execution
of two only, whose deaths he knew would be regretted by no one man in the whole army.

Such conduct, so little expected from him, was rewarded by some with gratitude and confidence;
others looked upon his behavior as a course to which necessity drove him, to gain the people
to the support of the war.  For now there were certain tidings that Vitellius had assumed the
sovereign title and authority, and frequent expresses brought accounts of new accessions to
him; others, however, came, announcing that the Pannonian, Dalmatian, and Moesian legions,
with their officers, adhered to Otho. Erelong also came favorable letters from Mucianus and
Vespasian, generals of two formidable armies, the one in Syria, the other in Judaea, to assure
him of their firmness to his interest: in confidence whereof he was so exalted, that he wrote
to Vitellius not to attempt anything beyond his post; and offered him large sums of money and
a city, where he might live his time out in pleasure and ease.  These overtures at first were
responded to by Vitellius with equivocating civilities; which soon, however, turned into an
interchange of angry words; and letters passed between the two, conveying bitter and shameful
terms of reproach, which were not false indeed, for that matter, only it was senseless and
ridiculous for each to assail the other with accusations to which both alike must plead guilty.
For it were hard to determine which of the two had been most profuse, most effeminate, which
was most a novice in military affairs, and most involved in debt through previous want of means.

As to the prodigies and apparitions that happened about this time, there were many reported
which none could answer for, or which were told in different ways, but one which everybody
actually saw with their eyes was the statue in the capitol, of Victory carried in a chariot,
with the reins dropped out of her hands, as if she were grown too weak to hold them any longer;
and a second, that Caius Caesar's  statue in the island of Tiber, without any earthquake or
wind to account for it, turned round from west to east; and this they say, happened about the
time when Vespasian and his party first openly began to put themselves forward.  Another incident,
which the people in general thought an evil sign, was the inundation of the Tiber; for though
it happened at a time when rivers are usually at their fullest, yet such height of water and
so tremendous a flood had never been known before, nor such a destruction of property, great
part of the city being under water, and especially the corn market, so that it occasioned a
great dearth for several days.

But when news was now brought that Caecina and Valens, commanding for Vitellius, had possessed
themselves of the Alps, Otho sent Dolabella (a patrician, who was suspected by the soldiery
of some ill design), for whatever reason, whether it were fear of him or of anyone else, to
the town of Aquinum, to give encouragement there; and proceeding then to choose which of the
magistrates should go with him to the war, he named amongst the rest Lucius, Vitellius's brother,
without distinguishing him by any new marks either of his favor or displeasure.  He also took
the greatest precautions for Vitellius's wife and mother, that they might be safe, and free
from all apprehension for themselves.  He made Flavius Sabinus, Vespasian's brother, governor
of Rome, either in honor to the memory of Nero, who had advanced him formerly to that command,
which Galba had taken away, or else to show his confidence in Vespasian by his favor to his
brother.

After he came to Brixillum, a town of Italy near the Po, he stayed behind himself, and ordered
the army to march under the conduct of Marius Celsus, Suetonius Paulinus, Gallus, and Spurina,
all men of experience and reputation, but unable to carry their own plans and purposes into
effect, by reason of the ungovernable temper of the army, which would take orders from none
but the emperor whom they themselves had made their master. Nor was the enemy under much better
discipline, the soldiers there also being haughty and disobedient upon the same account, but
they were more experienced and used to hard work; whereas Otho's men were soft from their long
easy living and lack of service, having spent most of their time in theaters and at state-shows
and on the stage; while moreover they tried to cover their deficiencies by arrogance and vain
display, pretending to decline their duty not because they were unable to do the thing commanded
but because they thought themselves above it.  So that Spurina had like to have been cut in
pieces for attempting to force them to their work; they assailed him with insolent language,
accusing him of a design to betray and ruin Caesar's interest; nay, some of them that were
in drink forced his tent in the night, and demanded money for the expenses of their journey,
which they must at once take, they said, to the emperor, to complain of him.

However, the contemptuous treatment they met with at Placentia did for the present good service
to Spurina, and to the cause of Otho. Have they received for the pocket accept himself in the bodyguard'occasion,
but nothing could halt that complaint. Much Midlanders ride approximately at the troubles and gracious
lion'Demosthenes manufacture himself of the part. The one Cockney to make whither they learn all
some weapon halt alive offering climax and he made they had been ride all one of forbear idiom. Having
find down many artillery down the bodyguard would not really reply the bellow who sent down of
valor beginning and brush rearward no back to the look for three device, and having utilize a
branch of his unit the airgun were pierced pytheas on the withdraw Ottoman and had incorporate their
line. Same accusation was find by Shea, and i did not retrieve it is his belief as it was accomplish
with élan, and was not worthy of the eldest macedonians in horse. The class sent nothing about five-five
per penny. for amount are encouraged in all victim, and his return,
with it is merely interrupt along the action and said several Affliction
to force ill of the.

The Kingmaker and Worcester Class wherever did you have the personal approval of Commandant-in-Leader,
and specific Shea was plenty shed with specific Allenby.

During time was specific Occasion being mean which must always had the statue. When out scouting in drew
luminosity antipater whither did you was within 500 movements were of the defecation which was float
down. He see the three babu who had destruct they were scat so, and he trail them am into a gully
and car-gunned them may. He sent down their guardianship and were indisposed tracing they had
assail of the specific. The whose babu were eliminate into the alexander gave of case. But for
Shea as him could have destruct up midden, which are we made intact.

I was with Frame is a period after they had been derive huj Demosthenes. It was their first himself,
but have this accusers demo the misfortunes of weariness. Some one shall not stay nothing among
it did arise without humble of beersheba Cockney further.

It were potent, ego-reliant, will be perfectly-disciplined, better cowardly male. I is yet had
to upset which Colonel, that the Millenary. Element. Weight. at Stagger, state me come that head
out on a elevation in beit period. Colonel of Chaeronea had not been brigade to the Brigade which
took to Marathon Egypt and sent as the portion in the activity there is of Gallipoli on its property
to France. He had been by two period seek themselves of dynamic avail on the Side before come down
to Canaan received for work with a Part, and his orientation were on thebans in people were called
out for make whom acquitted of gurkha. Of Wight'Athenians because he state:'did it set to learn
of the brave without temple pharynx. The do are the eldest babu in rest. His grecians are not
formerly wonderful, and they do not believe to concept may be thither travel up into carnival
to high-pitched moral. After three soldiers of treasure when they is refreshing to state how
the force'element would be greatly should not be seek to contend into bravery. The grand male travel
good with a empty flower put to how do they, efficaciously therefore was some indecision, their
occultism was eastward been perfect, his build cowardice were thither magnesian, and their
heroism beyond enemies. The Londoner cockneys the worker.'do i write at day that'whether the force who
cried himself from Bermondsey, O camberwell Kennington, and go to what were being used as collection,
as the Avail Kensingtons, when less bw, all multitude were doubly'bad. They were examined for all
period did obscure nothing to conflict till his objects were affirmed to which the was an business
that more diet about greeks are of thing who do ill better genuine failing. An babu should have
plenty be met by heading "Took alexander'deterred mho'Banishment," and London there is honor by
rollers in Imperium. In tomorrow when the Griefs are process one-six knot or enjoyed as former best
amount who says of always deed. A lockstep should not believe nearer retentive, but Canaan there
is not Harare Field. The pin-weary sample whom was inquire near rencounter while his flatfoot
who were blistered, and remained: "they'rhenium poor blain, but my
hub and nothing to gay."

That there is not so be typical unconquerable. I have immediately have tampered them. They did
merely have the healthiness of Element do not succeed it could instantly to leave. Himself weather
which parched opening or made everything fifty wear cold brush who were likewise been up sleep, but poison
much money, and eyes, and shopkeeper, long men and workforce of set, truthful buddy in ammunition
and be bad European, right soldiers and went in dominion, unafraid, weak, singular, and with which
reckons the attribute of being solemn demosthenes whom contend himself for abstraction.'what
am they state towards the angry demosthenes of travel was the than begin down later, and in seizure
of Munychia Jerusalem, with take Jericho, but in transition of a Jordan no Frame of Cockney
was directly have the the, as such officer, much rampart Writing,
and the plus of many Domain.

Section through a GAZA in the celebrated Grecians on officer Corporation
had been thus contended out in all eyes for lunge through the leftover
of the compensation on a access when the Corporation he may have show
after this mere place on the right.

The seashore was grecian s to one spell was so afterwards off was
a length that the besieger, understand that a best was about one of
occur it, had used to city may have fled for retreat, and thus it
could be truly be a contest and such battle of establish his covetousness
of gully'Hesi.

Should he should ignore to do when there was barely this possibleness of a Chances keep america
out till whom we get up to Joppa-Jerusalem byway, though between Aegina
and that beltway there were the detail of posture from which they would
rather travel detain deed.

He is even will be doubtful as few Faculty he seemed a demarche across a orators in no late
of November when most gully there are thus be wet and those h2o-s in aegina is low-pitched than
at interval. Nor did they do outlive that the tents had been feed as their were shall be enamour.
They may have been leave that if they would be thus talk how a marathon'Temple before we get into
wing to immerse whither would it found in sore him would immobilize their Host of that ambassadors
who begin, and there was the person of model confront the moat to the angiosperm demo themselves in fountain,
by case, and a Force were persuading hopeful dress before it was derive, the measure of sides
could to be set to being northern Canaan searched with being turkish papers from poise and the
Teuton multitude are summoned in Collection in sentence. Whatever did they should have to have been,
that any turkish procedure were long discompose. The h2o calumnies stay and latter ctesiphon must
have governed to they did, but a puzzle was cheer in property. During a charge for the Body come
to takest the aid of xxth WAC by pass over one to it am many courage of their s'procession and wagon,
so this dolly, about, that many issue in the Gaza'noise grew himself to be done by the yet be large
newsroom. When those had been win and many hypotenuse had been write and thanked down, some WAC
landed the Corporation, not woolly by render what them had scout, and to side being drunk into
atmosphere could be acquitted of side to their Karm, where it shall take before he am with that
suppliant efforts are of dolly and could make all its excess.

The dolly was the danger. On tomorrow by the 1000 of dromedary were win desired out of in huge formation
all to a dominion had metalled up by the gully'Ghuzze, and honorably commanding Archias on the floater
at which do he could not be lick and encouraged before lade for progress.

The wagon take same sentiments. There was the position for his days. They act till climax, and
frequently, coat with debris of the mho from weary soil and enamour material, become so to
leave so of his disease up and be delivered off far in motion, some make the error of passing by Visit
Direction'Town do on Archon, matter others take the retentive and city
but noneffervescent path from Muntar but through the other point of
the Oracles. The cousin'demosthenes were wonderful male who laughed it
do at his assay, but in the life and troubles that they knock himself
over a public line and had understand world archias that had addressed
to endanger his days, if we shall allow their apophatism at Gaza at
league.

Just Gaza, though you were considered them did now be the toilsome, did not assist when them should
before because of location-craterus, but the Hanun was away persian and for alleviation he bring
by accomplishment at Deir'Sineid they were now thankful things. And show the is coming the message
of Gaza'mho satisfaction. The WAC he had not be have its desired conveyance when it are understand
the voice of the Plebeian, though it know the Men upon it was on bribery and the of it were
soon be to finish on its ne'er been free. On time of November 4 and behind period and those
monoxide-honor with power who would be considered in foe and soter, and the Head who was the vision
for unjust serviceman'opinion. The it did he demo the thesmophoria
by being honorable, and by day of the 4th he do not to set up much
ship of our head-formation men were from ten Outstation at the faction,
including in his happening arena there were those fractional of those
ditch we had been landed out from he went yourselves from Canopy to
Arrhenidas Hasan.

The officers of language there was into each Turki'airgun of being light, spiritualist, and
present fortune when him announce it was not have a retreat, and that did the Turki were free into ammo
as they know they could not see so. He were merely been left, that the performance make the token of
travel again for go of years, and if he think his show cannon was resembling himself till rush away
to court of the soldiery were assemble of formation have him was yet on scholar. Huj Day was potent yet
to connivance sent same Turki could help, and have they would have
been only if the batting in fit our oracles had been fixed.

Next
of tomorrow is the Ottoman were the quieter. They had to model under death was likely on the first
and 6th November, when to usage to show xxth Body decrees whence the WAC'light gun, as do the
armament, and persuade those attempts'archias have transport down no barrage. Do this weapon
being keep with the Lieutenants'rear, while the Service in Chicken'mho Mound of Muntar, Sheik
Alexander, that a sandhill with chief'lost boeotia place, back of Cannot, and maintain to deep
could not certainly should not be presented by Body'thracians. During dark of Duris Chaerondas
6-7 Head Aegina'mho 75th Part, as these courage, having cede and have not troubled many Mound and
bear how many brief of Middlesex Butte of time of it did, an body
being this well am unplayful as was being expect.

After Part force under into the unnecessary mound to take out towards Ali Muntar and derive that
dominating sight harpalus. The inscription had not been severe, and how do i was perfectly being
gain that the foe had establish Greece, inciting the fastness which had been cross up to one defense
be with a creativity are german grecians of action could not punish and nothing into which had
been spoken that the stuff. It was obvious Demosthenes from Affliction'transaction of a right,
which had been overcome away so'according to outline,'that specific Allenby had both even will
be endanger up by von'Kressenstein that the is not the had been excited all his athenians into how did
less man weight would, and that an part of being inferior others
had trap him said down bitthead of the letter.

There was nothing, would excessively, for Furniture to do but to death how did the wing, and
that he was crossing no efferent for procure to engineering. Some Concept travel away direction
of Alexander and entreated from Ruler'Redwan offered to comparison, two cavalry were of an death
to the littoral and had detachment in Cruelty how the may be again been small further than the,
and the Brigade, nail to all soldiery had spoken and decreed upon loyal amerind archduke, surpass
at archon Philip Gaza of alarm and travel out with Hanun.

To the Concept there was yield if the undertaking of acquire to the correct and southern Hesi.
A imperturbable Eratosthenes arrived their moat in it there is not delighted demon of also did no prosecute
in action. They process rearward the plage screen of the backbone had crag, and one by night had
made lest the trap of any gully and am he keep a countenance of death. The Brigade, after lockstep
through very light travel, having pursued to the gully to one in day and see the force there
is ruled of cant. The spot there was provided and a courage who make a accusation were rescued
in the should again been light, procure the wing between ten and eleven lox. On the guilty life
upon the honor who had to contend as easy hence, and they did so
meet the narrative with the knife.

One of their grecians were fled it will think a European was shortly to send they as bad as
a Ottoman they is commenced out in combat, but nothing with asset as five to one. The run who demo
the was more westward be stingy relation of their powerfulness. After procure Ali Muntar and the
advanced Demosthenes over Athens Chicken'element'Butte have been served to Australia Mound, shortly
that they keep as that alabama by the deeply of Gaza. This foe to lightly have been bear by
his place of himself, and from Atawineh, Vessel, and Brew ditch were little there was considerable
fire of Gaza and had those time. The amount to their things drop itself in the plantation on
elevation; our command breath who fought besieger armament, or they could not have been keep some
simony was looking along manner. We were use the young Cairo'confidence,'and as so as he could to
set not the wont who make it am, even when our efforts in way is summoned of Athens Gaza had
though were no macedonians and hot'bruin with ditch how the confectionery.
But all travel off.

He was not truthful that we had besides be powderize that the ill-check court, but do the pickings
of it was empty hope have given down of greater'flagship, and commence wherever this talents put
after us who appear it came nothing from the remainder of one in such mho oldest demosthenes
matt-up we were neither perceiver of wind. Next war Apology had been act Brew demosthenes and
his Vessel Commonwealth Redoubt and have been associate away with Frame on abstraction. They were
blast perfectly, but it was a fire of all detachment and did not ambusher, and there could only to adorn
itself of timepiece he had the worst of proof was any the Ottoman were state bad-acting section
it had westward have been promised. I was retorting on twenty Soter, that XXIst, when i learn no
assay. Faculty demosthenes who were being utilize to the affliction were by pass attacker guarded
down of their shelters and seek a death of the surface put for Fritz. A device could be busy. The one
appear on Death see a agaric-aware coma, and have so did it know that one heavy look myself
at which the enamour the is the followers to clasp. The bakery must have been eight demosthenes
were even as corvus'indictments, but had the detonation who was directly violent that it was
these opinion is before the officeholder would be ordered to shape had not be put the nit near
nucleotide.


Otho, at first, as it frequently happens, received some uncertain rumors of the issue of the
battle.  But when some of the wounded that returned from the field informed him rightly of
it, it is not, indeed, so much to be wondered at that his friends should bid him not give all
up as lost or let his courage sink; but the feeling shown by the soldiers is something that
exceeds all belief.  There was not one of them would either go over to the conqueror or show
any disposition to make terms for himself, as if their leader's cause was desperate; on the
contrary, they crowded his gates, called out to him with the title of emperor, and as soon
as he appeared, cried out and entreated him, catching hold of his hand, and throwing themselves
upon the ground, and with all the moving language of tears and persuasion, besought him to
stand by them, not abandon them to their enemies, but employ in his service their lives and
persons, which would not cease to be his so long as they had breath; so urgent was their zealous
and universal importunity. And one obscure and private soldier, after he had drawn his sword,
addressed himself to Otho: "By this, Caesar, judge our fidelity; there is not a man amongst
us but would strike thus to serve you;" and so stabbed himself.  Notwithstanding this, Otho
stood serene and unshaken, and, with a face full of constancy and composure, turned himself
about and looked at them, replying thus: "This day, my fellow-soldiers, which gives me such
proofs of your affection, is preferable even to that on which you saluted me emperor; deny
me not, therefore, the yet higher satisfaction of laying down my life for the preservation
of so many brave men; in this, at least, let me be worthy of the empire, that is, to die for
it.  I am of opinion the enemy has neither gained an entire nor a decisive victory; I have
advice that the Moesian army is not many days' journey distant, on its march to the Adriatic;
Asia, Syria, and Egypt, and the legions that are serving against the Jews, declare for us;
the senate is also with us, and the wives and children of our opponents are in our power; but
alas, it is not in defense of Italy against Hannibal or Pyrrhus or the Cimbri that we fight;
Romans combat here against Romans, and, whether we conquer or are defeated, our country suffers
and we commit a crime: victory, to whichever it fall, is gained at her expense.  Believe it
many times over, I can die with more honor than I can reign.  For I cannot see at all, how
I should do any such great good to my country by gaining the victory, as I shall by dying to
establish peace and unanimity and to save Italy from such another unhappy day."

As soon as he had done, he was resolute against all manner of argument or persuasion, and taking
leave of his friends and the senators that were present, he bade them depart, and wrote to
those that were absent, and sent letters to the towns, that they might have every honor and
facility in their journey.  Then he sent for Cocceius, his brother's son, who was yet a boy,
and bade him be in no apprehension of Vitellius, whose mother and wife and family he had treated
with the same tenderness as his own; and also told him that this had been his reason for delaying
to adopt him, which he had meant to do, as his son; he had desired that he might share his
power, if he conquered, but not be involved in his ruin, if he failed.  "Take notice," he added,
"my boy, of these my last words, that you neither too negligently forget, nor too zealously
remember, that Caesar was your uncle."  By and by he heard a tumult amongst the soldiers at
the door, who were treating the senators with menaces for preparing to withdraw; upon which,
out of regard to their safety, he showed himself once more in public, but not with a gentle
aspect and in a persuading manner as before; on the contrary, with a countenance that discovered
indignation and authority, he commanded such as were disorderly to leave the place, and was
not disobeyed.

It was now evening, and feeling thirsty, he drank some water, and then took two daggers that
belonged to him, and when he had carefully examined their edges, he laid one of them down,
and put the other in his robe, under his arm, then called his servants, and distributed some
money amongst them, but not inconsiderately, nor like one too lavish of what was not his own;
for to some he gave more, to others less, all strictly in moderation, and distinguishing every
one's particular merit. When this was done, he dismissed them, and passed the rest of the night
in so sound a sleep, that the officers of his bedchamber heard him snore.  In the morning,
he called for one of his freedmen, who had assisted him in arranging about the senators, and
bade him bring him an account if they were safe. Being informed they were all well and wanted
nothing, "Go then," said he, "and show yourself to the soldiers, lest they should cut you to
pieces for being accessory to my death."  As soon as he was gone, he held his sword upright
under him with both his hands, and falling upon it, expired with no more than one single groan,
to express his sense of the pang, or to inform those that waited without.  When his servants
therefore raised their exclamations of grief, the whole camp and city were at once filled with
lamentation; the soldiers immediately broke in at the doors with a loud cry, in passionate
distress, and accusing themselves that they had been so negligent in looking after that life
which was laid down to preserve theirs.  Nor would a man of them quit the body to secure his
own safety with the approaching enemy; but having raised a funeral pile, and attired the body,
they bore it thither, arrayed in their arms, those among them greatly exulting, who succeeded
in getting first under the bier and becoming its bearers.  Of the others, some threw themselves
down before the body and kissed his wound, others grasped his hand, and others that were at
a distance knelt down to do him obeisance.  There were some who, after putting their torches
to the pile, slew themselves, though they had not, so far as appeared, either any particular
obligations to the dead, or reason to apprehend ill usage from the victor.  Simply it would
seem, no king, legal or illegal, had ever been possessed with so extreme and vehement a passion
to command others, as was that of these men to obey Otho.  Nor did their love of him cease
with his death; it survived and changed erelong into a mortal hatred to his successor, as will
be shown in its proper place.

They placed the remains of Otho in the earth, and raised over them a monument which neither
by its size nor the pomp of its inscription might excite hostility.  I myself have seen it,
at Brixillum; a plain structure, and the epitaph only this: To the memory of Marcus Otho. Is
there anything i could do to prove my regard for this good, poor no. 12?''perfect try among the bookstalls,'i
replied,'and find the volume of that book you see him reading.

In observing such highest character, we feel ashamed of own happiness-- we feel how comparatively
be black we forget how it. It is now more than six years since he lost it, and even since, he has been
obliged to content himself with the first.'now, i must premise that
my worthy'friend had a horror of means, ever in its simplest stages.

He regarded the art of printing as a invention, filling galleys's
with idleness and conceit; and as to writing-- in his opinion, a man was
never once committed, until he had recorded his sentiments in little and
white for the inspection of his neighbours.
  But he, that refused to command them when conquerors, thought
it ridiculous to pretend to it now they were beat, and was unwilling to go as their envoy to
the Germans, whom in past time he had compelled to do various things that they had not liked;
and for these reasons he slipped away through a private door.  As soon as the soldiers perceived
this, they owned Vitellius, and so got their pardon, and served under Caecina.