"Tweel had his glass gun out and I dumped my water tank for greater freedom and got mine. We
backed up the corridor with the barrel-beasts following--about twenty of them. Queer thing--the
ones coming in with loaded carts moved past us inches away without a sign.

"Tweel must have noticed that. Suddenly, he snatched out that glowing coal cigar-lighter of
his and touched a cart-load of plant limbs. Puff! The whole load was burning--and the crazy
beast pushing it went right along without a change of pace! It created some disturbance among
our 'V-r-r-riends,' however--and then I noticed the smoke eddying and swirling past us, and
sure enough, there was the entrance!

"I grabbed Tweel and out we dashed and after us our twenty pursuers. The daylight felt like
Heaven, though I saw at first glance that the sun was all but set, and that was bad, since
I couldn't live outside my thermo-skin bag in a Martian night--at least, without a fire.

"And things got worse in a hurry. They cornered us in an angle between two mounds, and there
we stood. I hadn't fired nor had Tweel; there wasn't any use in irritating the brutes. They
stopped a little distance away and began their booming about friendship and ouches.

"Then things got still worse! A barrel-brute came out with a pushcart and they all grabbed
into it and came out with handfuls of foot-long copper darts--sharp-looking ones--and all of
a sudden one sailed past my ear--zing! And it was shoot or die then.

"We were doing pretty well for a while. We picked off the ones next to the pushcart and managed
to keep the darts at a minimum, but suddenly there was a thunderous booming of 'v-r-r-riends'
and 'ouches,' and a whole army of 'em came out of their hole.

"Man! We were through and I knew it! Then I realized that Tweel wasn't. He could have leaped
the mound behind us as easily as not. He was staying for me!

"Say, I could have cried if there'd been time! I'd liked Tweel from the first, but whether
I'd have had gratitude to do what he was doing--suppose I had saved him from the first dream-beast--he'd
done as much for me, hadn't he? I grabbed his arm, and said 'Tweel,' and pointed up, and he
understood. He said, 'No--no--no, Tick!' and popped away with his glass pistol.

"What could I do? I'd be a goner anyway when the sun set, but I couldn't explain that to him.
I said, 'Thanks, Tweel. You're a man!' and felt that I wasn't paying him any compliment at
all. A man! There are mighty few men who'd do that.

"So I went 'bang' with my gun and Tweel went 'puff' with his, and the barrels were throwing
darts and getting ready to rush us, and booming about being friends. I had given up hope. Then
suddenly an angel dropped right down from Heaven in the shape of Putz, with his under-jets
blasting the barrels into very small pieces!

"Wow! I let out a yell and dashed for the rocket; Putz opened the door and in I went, laughing
and crying and shouting! It was a moment or so before I remembered Tweel; I looked around in
time to see him rising in one of his nosedives over the mound and away.

"I had a devil of a job arguing Putz into following! By the time we got the rocket aloft, darkness
was down; you know how it comes here--like turning off a light. We sailed out over the desert
and put down once or twice. I yelled 'Tweel!' and yelled it a hundred times, I guess. We couldn't
find him; he could travel like the wind and all I got--or else I imagined it--was a faint trilling
and twittering drifting out of the south. He'd gone, and damn it! I wish--I wish he hadn't!"

The four men of the Ares were silent--even the sardonic Harrison. At last little Leroy broke
the stillness.

"I should like to see," he murmured.

"Yeah," said Harrison. "And the wart-cure. Too bad you missed that; it might be the cancer
cure they've been hunting for a century and a half."

