Sixthly, This would be a great inducement to marriage, which all wise nations have either encouraged
by rewards, or enforced by laws and penalties. It would increase the care and tenderness of
mothers toward their children, when they were sure of a settlement for life, to the poor babes,
provided in some sort by the public to their annual profit instead of expense. We should see
an honest emulation among the married women, which of them could bring the fattest child to
the market, men would become as fond of their wives, during the time of their pregnancy, as
they are now of their mares in foal, their cows in calf, or sows when they are ready to farrow,
nor offer to beat or kick them (as it is too frequent a practice) for fear of a miscarriage.

Many other advantages might be enumerated: For instance, the addition of some thousand carcasses
in our exportation of barrelled beef; the propagation of swine's flesh, and improvement in
the art of making good bacon, so much wanted among us by the great destruction of pigs, too
frequent at our tables, which are no way comparable in taste, or magnificence to a well-grown,
fat yearling child, which roasted whole will make a considerable figure at a Lord Mayor's feast,
or any other public entertainment. But this, and many others I omit being studious of brevity.

Supposing that one thousand families in this city, would be constant customers for infants'
flesh, besides others who might have it at merry-meetings, particularly weddings and christenings,
I compute that Dublin would take off annually about twenty thousand carcasses, and the rest
of the kingdom (where probably they will be sold somewhat cheaper) the remaining eighty thousand.

I can think of no one objection, that will possibly be raised against this proposal, unless
it should be urged that the number of people will be thereby much lessened in the kingdom.
This I freely own, and was indeed one principal design in offering it to the world. I desire
the reader will observe, that I calculate my remedy for this one individual Kingdom of Ireland,
and for no other that ever was, is, or, I think, ever can be upon earth. Therefore let no man
talk to me of other expedients: Of taxing our absentees at five shillings a pound: Of using
neither clothes, nor household furniture, except what is of our own growth and manufacture:
Of utterly rejecting the materials and instruments that promote foreign luxury: Of curing the
expensiveness of pride, vanity, idleness, and gaming in our women: Of introducing a vein of
parsimony, prudence and temperance: Of learning to love our Country, wherein we differ even
from LAPLANDERS, and the inhabitants of TOPINAMBOO:[134] Of quitting our animosities and factions,
nor act any longer like the Jews, who were murdering one another at the very moment their city
was taken: Of being a little cautious not to sell our country and consciences for nothing:[135]
Of teaching landlords to have at least one degree of mercy toward their tenants. Lastly of
putting a spirit of honesty, industry and skill into our shopkeepers, who, if a resolution
could now be taken to buy only our native goods, would immediately unite to cheat and exact
upon us in the price, the measure, and the goodness, nor could ever yet be brought to make
one fair proposal of just dealing, though often and earnestly invited to it.[136]

Therefore I repeat, let no man talk to me of these and the like expedients, till he hath at
least some glimpse of hope, that there will ever be some hearty and sincere attempt to put
them in practice.

But as to myself, having been wearied out for many years with offering vain, idle, visionary
thoughts, and at length utterly despairing of success, I fortunately fell upon this proposal,
which as it is wholly new, so it hath something solid and real, of no expense and little trouble,
full in our own power, and whereby we can incur no danger in disobliging ENGLAND. For this
kind of commodity will not bear exportation,[137] the flesh being of too tender a consistence,
to admit a long continuance in salt, although perhaps I could name a country, which would be
glad to eat up our whole nation without it.

After all I am not so violently bent upon my own opinion, as to reject any offer, proposed
by wise men, which shall be found equally innocent, cheap, easy and effectual. But before something
of that kind shall be advanced in contradiction to my scheme, and offering a better, I desire
the author, or authors will be pleased maturely to consider two points. First, as things now
stand, how they will be able to find food and raiment for an hundred thousand useless mouths
and backs. And secondly, there being a round million of creatures in human figure, throughout
this kingdom, whose whole subsistence put into a common stock, would leave them in debt two
millions of pounds sterling adding those, who are beggars by profession, to the bulk of farmers,
cottagers and labourers with their wives and children, who are beggars in effect. I desire
those politicians, who dislike my overture, and may perhaps be so bold to attempt an answer,
that they will first ask the parents of these mortals, whether they would not at this day think
it a great happiness to have been sold for food at a year old, in the manner I prescribe, and
thereby have avoided such a perpetual scene of misfortunes, as they have since gone through,
by the oppression of landlords, the impossibility of paying rent without money or trade, the
want of common sustenance, with neither house nor clothes to cover them from the inclemencies
of the weather, and the most inevitable prospect of entailing the like, or greater miseries
upon their breed for ever.

I profess in the sincerity of my heart that I have not the least personal interest in endeavouring
to promote this necessary work, having no other motive than the public good of my country,
by advancing our trade, providing for infants, relieving the poor, and giving some pleasure
to the rich. I have no children, by which I can propose to get a single penny; the youngest
being nine years old, and my wife past child-bearing.

ANSWER TO THE CRAFTSMAN.

     NOTE.

     This "Answer" forms an excellent continuation of the "Modest
     Proposal." It is in an entirely different vein, but is, in its own
     way, an admirable example of Swift's strength in handling a public
     question. The English government had been offering every facility
     to French officers for recruiting their army from Ireland. The
     "Craftsman" made some strong remarks on this, and Primate Boulter,
     in his letter to the Duke of Newcastle, under date October 14th,
     1730, told his Grace, "that after consulting with the Lords
     Justices on the subject he found that they apprehend there will be
     greater difficulties in this affair than at first offered." He
     enters into the difficulties to be overcome in order to act in
     consonance with the wishes of his Majesty, and promises that
     "effectual care shall be taken that none of the officers who are
     come hither, suffer on this account" (Letter, pp. 26-27, vol. ii.,
     Dublin, edit. 1770). Swift uses the matter for his own purposes and
     ironically welcomes this chance for the depopulation of Ireland.
     "When our island is a desert, we will send all our raw material to
     England, and receive from her all our manufactured articles. A
     leather coinage will be all we want, separated, as we shall then
     be, from all human kind. We shall have lost all; but we may be left
     in peace, and we shall have no more to tempt the plunderer." Scott
     styles this "Answer" a masterpiece.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The text of this edition is based on that given by Faulkner in the
     ninth volume of his edition of Swift issued in 1772.

     [T. S.]

ANSWER TO THE CRAFTSMAN.[138]

 SIR,

I detest reading your papers, because I am not of your principles, and because I cannot endure
to be convinced. Yet I was prevailed on to peruse your Craftsman of December the 12th, wherein
I discover you to be as great an enemy of this country, as you are of your own. You are pleased
to reflect on a project I proposed, of making the children of Irish parents to be useful to
the public instead of being burdensome;[139] and you venture to assert, that your own scheme
is more charitable, of not permitting our Popish natives to be listed in the service of any
foreign prince.

Perhaps, sir, you may not have heard of any kingdom so unhappy as this, both in their imports
and exports. We import a sort of goods, of no intrinsic value, which costeth us above forty
thousand pounds a year to dress, and scour, and polish them, which altogether do not yield
one penny advantage;[140] and we annually export above seven hundred thousand pounds a year
in another kind of goods, for which we receive not one single farthing in return; even the
money paid for the letters sent in transacting this commerce being all returned to England.
But now, when there is a most lucky opportunity offered to begin a trade, whereby this nation
will save many thousand pounds a year, and England be a prodigious gainer, you are pleased,
without a call, officiously and maliciously to interpose with very frivolous arguments.

It is well known, that about sixty years ago the exportation of live cattle from hence to England
was a great benefit to both kingdoms, until that branch of traffic was stopped by an act of
Parliament on your side, whereof you have had sufficient reason to repent.[141] Upon which
account, when another act passed your Parliament, forbidding the exportation of live men to
any foreign country, you were so wise to put in a clause, allowing it to be done by his Majesty's
permission, under his sign manual,[142] for which, among other great benefits granted to Ireland,
we are infinitely obliged to the British legislature. Yet this very grace and favour you, Mr.
D'Anvers, whom we never disobliged, are endeavouring to prevent; which, I will take upon me
to say, is a manifest mark of your disaffection to his Majesty, a want of duty to the ministry,
and a wicked design of oppressing this kingdom, and a traitorous attempt to lessen the trade
and manufacture of England.

Our truest and best ally, the Most Christian King,[143] hath obtained his Majesty's licence,
pursuant to law, to export from hence some thousand bodies of healthy, young, living men, to
supply his Irish regiments. The King of Spain, as you assert yourself, hath desired the same
civility, and seemeth to have at least as good a claim. Supposing then that these two potentates
will only desire leave to carry off six thousand men between them to France and Spain; then,
by computing the maintenance of a tall, hungry Irishman, in food and clothes, to be only at
five pounds a head, here will be thirty thousand pounds per annum saved clear to the nation;
for they can find no other employment at home, beside begging, robbing, or stealing. But, if
thirty, forty, or fifty thousand (which we could gladly spare) were sent on the same errand,
what an immense benefit must it be to us! And if the two princes, in whose service they were,
should happen to be at war with each other, how soon would those recruits be destroyed! Then
what a number of friends would the Pretender lose, and what a number of Popish enemies all
true Protestants get rid of! Add to this, that then, by such a practice, the lands of Ireland,
that want hands for tillage, must be employed in grazing, which would sink the price of wool,
raw hides, butter, and tallow, so that the English might have them at their own rates, and
in return send us wheat to make our bread, barley to brew our drink, and oats for our houses,
without any labour of our own.

Upon this occasion, I desire humbly to offer a scheme, which, in my opinion, would best answer
the true interests of both kingdoms: For although I bear a most tender filial affection to
England, my dear native country, yet I cannot deny but this noble island hath a great share
in my love and esteem; nor can I express how much I desire to see it flourish in trade and
opulence, even beyond its present happy condition.

The profitable land of this kingdom is, I think, usually computed at seventeen millions of
acres, all which I propose to be wholly turned to grazing. Now, it is found by experience,
that one grazier and his family can manage two thousand acres. Thus sixteen millions eight
hundred thousand acres may be managed by eight thousand four hundred families; and the fraction
of two hundred thousand acres will be more than sufficient for cabins, out-houses, and potatoe-gardens;
because it is to be understood that corn of all sorts must be sent to us from England.

These eight thousand four hundred families may be divided among the four provinces, according
to the number of houses in each province; and making the equal allowance of eight to a family,
the number of inhabitants will amount to sixty-seven thousand two hundred souls. To these we
are to add a standing army of twenty thousand English; which, together with their trulls, their
bastards, and their horse-boys, will, by a gross computation, very near double the count, and
be very sufficient for the defence and grazing of the kingdom, as well as to enrich our neighbours,
expel popery, and keep out the Pretender. And, lest the army should be at a loss for business,
I think it would be very prudent to employ them in collecting the public taxes for paying themselves
and the civil list.

I advise, that all the owners of these lands should live constantly in England, in order to
learn politeness, and qualify themselves for employments; but, for fear of increasing the natives
in this island, that an annual draught, according to the number born every year, be exported
to whatever prince will bear the carriage, or transplanted to the English dominions on the
American continent, as a screen between his Majesty's English subjects and the savage Indians.

I advise likewise, that no commodity whatsoever, of this nation's growth, should be sent to
any other country except England, under the penalty of high treason; and that all the said
commodities shall be sent in their natural state; the hides raw, the wool uncombed, the flax
in the stub; excepting only fish, butter, tallow, and whatever else will be spoiled in the
carriage. On the contrary, that no goods whatsoever shall be exported hither, except from England,
under the same penalty: that England should be forced, at their own rates, to send us over
clothes ready made, as well as shirts and smocks to the soldiers and their trulls; all iron,
wooden, and earthen ware, and whatever furniture may be necessary for the cabins of graziers;
with a sufficient quantity of gin, and other spirits, for those who, can afford to be drunk
on holidays.

As to the civil and ecclesiastical administration, which I have not yet fully considered, I
can say little; only, with regard to the latter, it is plain, that the article of paying tithe
for supporting speculative opinions in religion, which is so insupportable a burden to all
true Protestants, and to most churchmen, will be very much lessened by this expedient; because
dry cattle pay nothing to the spiritual hireling, any more than imported corn; so that the
industrious shepherd and cowherd may sit every man under his own blackberry-bush, and on his
own potato-bed, whereby this happy island will become a new Arcadia.

I do likewise propose, that no money shall be used in Ireland except what is made of leather,
which likewise shall be coined in England, and imported; and that the taxes shall be levied
out of the commodities we export to England, and there turned into money for his Majesty's
use; and the rents to landlords discharged in the same manner. This will be no manner of grievance,
for we already see it very practicable to live without money, and shall be more convinced of
it every day. But whether paper shall still continue to supply that defect, or whether we shall
hang up all those who profess the trade of bankers, (which latter I am rather inclined to,)
must be left to the consideration of wiser politicians.

That which maketh me more zealously bent upon this scheme, is my desire of living in amity
with our neighbouring brethren; for we have already tried all other means without effect, to
that blessed end: and, by the course of measures taken for some years past, it should seem
that we are all agreed in the point.

This expedient will be of great advantage to both kingdoms, upon several accounts: for, as
to England, they have a just claim to the balance of trade on their side with the whole world:
and therefore our ancestors and we, who conquered this kingdom for them, ought, in duty and
gratitude, to let them have the whole benefit of that conquest to themselves; especially when
the conquest was amicably made without bloodshed, by a stipulation between the Irish princes
and Henry II.; by which they paid him, indeed, not equal homage with what the electors of Germany
do to the emperor, but very near the same that he did to the King of France for his French
dominions.

In consequence of this claim from England, that kingdom may very reasonably demand the benefit
of all our commodities in their natural growth, to be manufactured by their people, and a sufficient
quantity of them for our use to be returned hither fully manufactured.

This, on the other side, will be of great benefit to our inhabitants the graziers; when time
and labour will be too much taken up in manuring their ground, feeding their cattle, shearing
their sheep, and sending over their oxen fit for slaughter; to which employments they are turned
by nature, as descended from the Scythians, whose diet they are still so fond of. So Virgil
describeth it:--

  Et lac concretum cum sanguine bibit equino;

Which, in English, is bonnyclabber[144] mingled with the blood of horses, as they formerly
did, until about the beginning of the last century luxury, under the form of politeness, began
to creep in, they changed the blood of horses for that of their black cattle, and, by consequence,
became less warlike than their ancestors.

Although I proposed that the army should be collectors of the public revenues, yet I did not
thereby intend that those taxes should be paid in gold or silver; but in kind, as all other
rent: For, the custom of tenants making their payments in money, is a new thing in the world,
little known in former ages, nor generally practised in any nation at present, except this
island and the southern parts of Britain. But, to my great satisfaction, I foresee better times;
the ancient manner beginneth to be now practised in many parts of Connaught, as well as in
the county of Cork; where the squires turn tenants to themselves, divide so many cattle to
their slaves, who are to provide such a quantity of butter, hides, or tallow, still keeping
up their number of cattle; and carry the goods to Cork, or other port towns, and then sell
them to the merchants. By which invention there is no such thing as a ruined farmer to be seen;
but the people live with comfort on potatoes and bonnyclabber, neither of which are vendible
commodities abroad.

A

VINDICATION

OF

HIS EXCELLENCY JOHN, LORD CARTERET.

     NOTE.

     JOHN CARTERET, EARL GRANVILLE, succeeded to the Carteret
     barony at the early age of five years. He was the son of George,
     the first Baron Carteret, and was born in 1690. He was educated at
     Westminster School and Christ Church, Oxford, from which latter
     place, as Swift puts it, "he carried away more Greek, Latin, and
     philosophy than properly became a person of his rank." In the House
     of Lords Carteret was known as a strong adherent of the Protestant
     succession, and joined the Sunderland party on the split of the
     Whigs in 1717. As ambassador extraordinary to the Court of Sweden
     he was eminently successful, being the instrument by which, in
     1720, peace was established between Sweden, Prussia, and Hanover.
     Later, he served in a similar capacity with Earl Stanhope and Sir
     Robert Sutton at the Congress of Cambray.

     In 1721 he was appointed Secretary of State of the southern
     province, but although a member of the Walpole administration, he
     intrigued with the King against Walpole, and attempted to form a
     party in opposition to that minister. He ingratiated himself in the
     King's favour by means of his knowledge of the German language (for
     George knew no English), and obtained the support of Carleton,
     Roxburghe, Cadogan, and the Countess of Darlington. Walpole,
     however, was too strong for him. He managed to get Carteret to
     Ireland as Lord Lieutenant, and the Duke of Newcastle took up the
     office held by him in England. The condition of Ireland at this
     time was such as to cause grave anxiety to the English government.
     Carteret was sent ostensibly to a post of great importance, though,
     in reality, to be out of Walpole's way. For an account of
     Carteret's government during the agitation against Wood's
     halfpence, the reader is referred to the sixth volume of the
     present edition.

     During the King's absence from England in 1723, Carteret had been
     one of the lords justices of the country, and in 1725, when George
     was again away, he was again appointed to this office. George,
     however, died on his way to Hanover; but, on the accession of
     George II., Carteret continued to hold high office. He was
     re-appointed to the Irish Lord Lieutenancy in 1727, and it was
     during this second term that he was criticised for the conduct
     Swift vindicates in the following tract.

     The Dean had a great admiration both for the scholarship and temper
     of Carteret. The admiration was mutual, for Carteret often
     consulted with Swift on important matters, and, though he dared not
     appoint the Drapier to any position of importance, he took occasion
     to assist the Drapier's friends. At the time of the proclamation
     against the Drapier's fourth letter, the Dean, writes Scott,
     "visited the Castle, and having waited for some time without seeing
     the Lord Lieutenant, wrote upon one of the windows of the chamber
     of audience these lines:

       'My very good lord, 'tis a very hard task,
       For a man to wait here, who has nothing to ask.'

     Under which Carteret wrote the following happy reply:

       'My very good Dean, there are few who come here,
       But have something to ask, or something to fear.'"

     To Carteret's politic government of Ireland was mainly due the
     peaceful condition which prevailed amidst all the agitation roused
     by bad management and wretchedness. In a letter to Swift, written
     many years later (March, 1737), Carteret writes: "The people ask me
     how I governed Ireland, I say that I pleased Dr. Swift." And Swift
     confessed (in a letter to Gay, November 19th, 1730) that Carteret
     "had a genteeler manner of binding the chains of the kingdom than
     most of his predecessors." It was to Carteret that Swift made his
     well-known remark, on an occasion of a visit, "What, in God's name,
     do you do here? Get back to your own country, and send us our
     boobies again."

     Swift was well aware that Carteret had not the power to make the
     changes in Ireland necessary for its well-being. Such changes could
     come only from the government in England, and as this was
     implacable, Carteret was but an instrument in its hands. Swift was
     therefore compelled to rest content with obtaining what favours he
     could for those friends of his who he knew deserved advancement,
     and he allowed no occasion to slip by without soliciting in their
     behalf.

     Richard Tighe (who had managed to injure Sheridan in his
     chaplaincy), with a number of the more violent members of the Whigs
     in Ireland, took up Carteret's conduct, attempted, by means of
     their interpretation of the Lord Lieutenant's promotions, to injure
     him with the government, and accused him of advancing individuals
     who were enemies of the government. Swift took up the charge in his
     usual ironical manner, and wrote the Vindication which follows.

     Carteret, it may be added here, was dismissed from his office in
     1730, and joined Pulteney in a bitter struggle against Walpole,
     which culminated in his famous resolution, presented to the House
     of Lords, desiring that the King should remove Walpole from his
     presence and counsels for ever. Carteret failed, but Walpole was
     compelled to resign in 1742. The rest of Carteret's career bears no
     relation to Irish affairs.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The present text is founded on that of the original London edition
     printed in 1730, collated with the Dublin edition of the same date.
     They differ in many minor details from that given by Scott in 1824.

     [T. S.]

A

VINDICATION

OF HIS

EXCELLENCY

THE

Lord C----T,

FROM THE

CHARGE

Of favouring none but

TORIES, HIGH-CHURCHMEN and

JACOBITES.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the Reverend Dr, S----T.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON:

Printed for T. WARNER at the Black-Boy in Pater-Noster-Row. MDCCXXX.

(Price 6d.)

A VINDICATION OF HIS EXCELLENCY JOHN, LORD CARTERET.

In order to treat this important subject with the greatest fairness and impartiality, perhaps
it may be convenient to give some account of his Excellency in whose life and character there
are certain particulars, which might give a very just suspicion of some truth in the accusation
he lies under.

He is descended from two noble, ancient, and most loyal families, the Carterets and the Granvilles.
Too much distinguish'd, I confess, for what they acted, and what they suffer'd in defending
the former Constitution in Church and State, under King Charles the Martyr; I mean that very
Prince, on account of whose martyrdom "a Form of Prayer, with Fasting," was enjoined, by Act
of Parliament, "to be used on the 30th day of January every year, to implore the mercies of
God, that the guilt of that sacred and innocent blood, might not be visited on us or our posterity,"
as we may read at large in our Common Prayer Books. Which day hath been solemnly kept, even
within the memory of many men now alive.

His Excellency, the present Lord, was educated in the University of Oxford,[145] from whence,
with a singularity scarce to be justified, he carried away more Greek, Latin, and philosophy,
than properly became a person of his rank, indeed much more of each than most of those who
are forced to live by their learning, will be at the unnecessary pains to load their heads with.

