On the 10th of December, in 50 degrees 40 minutes southern latitude the first ice was met with.
Rain and snow succeeded each other uninterruptedly. The fog soon became so dense, that the
crews did not perceive a floating iceberg, until they were a mile past it. "One of these,"
says the narrative, "was not less than 200 feet high, 400 wide, and 2000 long.

"Taking it as probable, that this piece was of absolutely equal size, its depth beneath the
water, would have been 1800 feet, and its height about 2000 feet, and from the dimensions just
given its entire bulk must have contained 1600 million cubic feet of ice."

As they proceeded further south the icebergs increased. The sea was so rough, that the waves
climbed these glacial blocks, and fell on the other side in fine impalpable dust. The scene
filled the observers with admiration. But this was soon succeeded by terror, upon the reflection
that if the vessel struck one of these enormous masses, she must be dashed to pieces. The presence
of danger soon, however, produced indifference, and more thought was bestowed upon the sublime
beauty, than upon the strife with this terrible element.

Upon the 14th of December, an enormous iceberg, which closed in the horizon, prevented the
two vessels from proceeding southwards, and it became absolutely necessary to skirt it.

It did not present an unbroken surface, for hillocks were visible on it, similar to those met
on the previous days. Some thought they distinguished land under the ice, even Cook for the
moment was deceived, but as the fog lifted the mistake was easily rectified.

Next day the vessels were driven before a strong current. The elder Forster and Wales, the
astronomer, embarked in a small boat to ascertain its swiftness. Whilst thus engaged, the fog
became so dense, that they completely lost sight of the ship. In this miserable boat, without
instruments or provisions, in the midst of the wide ocean, far from any coast, surrounded by
ice, their situation was dreadful. They left off rowing, lest they should get farther from
the ship. They were losing all hope when the sound of a distant bell fell upon their ears.
They rowed swiftly in the direction of the sound. The Adventure replied to their shouts and
picked them up after several hours of terrible suspense.

The generally received opinion was, that the ice floats collected in the bays or mouths of
rivers. The explorers, therefore, imagined themselves near land, which would prove to be situated
in the south behind the vast iceberg.

They were thirty leagues to the west of it, before they found an opening in the ice which might
lead to the south. The captain then determined to steer an equal distance to the east. Should
he not find land, he at least hoped to double the iceberg, and penetrate in advance of it to
the pole, and thereby settle the doubts of all the physicists.

But although it was the middle of summer in this part of the world, the cold became daily more
intense. The sailors complained of it, and symptoms of scurvy appeared on board.

Warmer clothes were distributed, and recourse was had to the remedies usual in such cases,
malt and lemon-juice, which soon overcame the malady, and enabled the crews to bear the severity
of the temperature.

On the 29th of December, Cook ascertained positively that the iceberg was joined to no land.
He therefore decided to proceed eastward as far as the parallel of Cape Circumcision, that
is, if no obstacle prevented him.

He had scarcely put this resolve into execution when the wind became so violent, and the sea
so rough, that navigation, in the midst of floating ice, which crashed with a fearful noise,
became most perilous.

The danger increased, when a field of ice extending beyond the range of vision was seen to
the north. There seemed every prospect of the ships being imprisoned for many weeks, "hemmed
in," to use the expression of whalers, if indeed they did not run the risk of being crushed
at once.

Cook neither tried to run to the west or east, he steered straight for the south. He was now
in the latitude attributed to Cape Circumcision, and seventy leagues south of the position
assigned to it. Hence he concluded that if land existed as stated by Bouvet (which is now known
to be a fact) it could only be an inconsiderable island, and not a large continent.

The captain had no further reason for remaining in these latitudes. In 67 degrees 15 minutes
southern latitude a new ice barrier, running from east to west closed the passage for him,
and he could find no opening in it. Prudence enjoined his remaining no longer in this region,
for two-thirds of the summer were already passed. He therefore determined to seek, with no
further delay, the land recently discovered by the French.

On the 1st of February, 1773, the vessels were in 48 degrees 30 minutes south latitude, and
38 degrees 7 minutes west longitude, very nearly the parallel attributed to St. Maurice Island.

After a fruitless cruise, productive of no results, they were forced to conclude, that if there
really were land in these latitudes it could only be a small island, otherwise it could not
have escaped their search.

On the 8th of February, the captain found to his dismay that the Adventure was no longer sailing
with him. He waited in vain for two days, firing at close intervals and keeping great fires
upon the deck all night. The Resolution had to continue her voyage alone.

On the morning of the 17th of February, between twelve and three o'clock, the crew witnessed
a magnificent spectacle, then first seen by European eyes. It was an aurora borealis. "The
officer of the watch," says the narrative, "noticed that from time to time rays left it in
spiral and circular forms, and that then its brilliancy increased, which gave it an extremely
beautiful appearance. It appeared to have no particular bearing, but remained motionless in
the heavens, which it filled entirely from time to time, by throwing its light to all parts."

After another attempt to pass the arctic circle, an attempt, which the fogs, the rain, the
snow, and the ice-blocks forced him to relinquish, Cook resumed his course to the north, convinced
that he left no large land behind him, and regained New Zealand, which he had agreed upon with
the Adventure as a rendezvous in the event of separation.

On the 25th of March he cast anchor in Dusky Bay, after one hundred and seventy consecutive
days of sea, in which he had not made less than three thousand six hundred and sixty leagues,
without one sight of land.

As soon as he could find suitable anchorage, the captain hastened to avail himself of the resources
for feeding his crew, which the country furnished in fowls, fish, and vegetables, whilst he
himself, generally with the plumb-line in his hand, traversed the environs of the bay. He met
only a few natives, with whom he had little intercourse. But one family becoming somewhat familiarized,
established itself a hundred yards from the landing-place. Cook gave a concert for them, in
which the fife and cornet were lavished on them in vain, the New Zealanders awarded the palm
to the drum!

On the 18th of April, a chief came on board with his daughter. But before entering the ship
he rapped her sides with a green wand he held in his hand, and addressed an harangue or invocation
in modulated accents, to the strangers, a very general custom with the islanders of the southern
sea. Scarcely was his foot on deck, when he offered the captain a bit of cloth, and a green
talc hatchet, an unprecedented act of generosity for a New Zealander.

The chief visited every part of the ship. In order to testify his gratitude to the captain
he plunged his fingers into a bag at his waist, and offered to anoint his hair with the tainted
oil it contained. Cook had much difficulty in escaping from this proof of affection, which
had not been very pleasing to Byron in the Strait of Magellan, but the painter Hodges was forced
to submit to the operation, to the amusement of the entire crew. The chief then departed, to
return no more, taking with him nine hatchets, and thirty pairs of carpenter's scissors, which
the officers had given him. Richer than all the New Zealanders put together, he no doubt hastened
to stow away his treasures, in the fear that some one would deprive him of them.

Before leaving Cook landed five geese, the last of those he had brought from the Cape, thinking
that they would multiply in this little inhabited spot, and he had a plot of land cleared in
which he planted kitchen garden seeds. Thus he worked at the same time for the natives and
for the future navigators who should find precious resources here.

When Cook had completed the hydrographical survey of Dusky Bay, he started for Queen Charlotte's
Sound, the rendezvous assigned to Captain Furneaux.

On the 17th of May the crew witnessed a magnificent spectacle. Six water-spouts, one of them
sixty feet wide at its base, were visible a hundred feet from the ship in succession, drawing
the clouds and sea into communication by their powerful suction. This phenomenon lasted three
quarters of an hour, and the first feeling of fear which it awakened in the breasts of the
crew was soon merged in one of admiration, the greater as at this time such marvels were little
known.

Next day, just as the Resolution entered Queen Charlotte's Sound, the Adventure was seen, and
proved to have been waiting for six weeks. Furneaux, after reaching Van Diemen's Land on the
1st of March, had coasted it for seventeen days, but he was forced to desist before ascertaining
whether it was, as he supposed, a part of New Holland. The refutation of this error was reserved
for the surgeon, Bass. On the 9th of April after reaching Queen's Charlotte's Sound, the captain
of the Adventure had profited by his leisure to lay out a garden and to open relations with
the natives, who had furnished him with irresistible proofs of their cannibalism.

Before he continued his voyage of discovery, Cook followed the same line of conduct as at Dusky
Bay. He landed a ram and a sheep, a goat and a she-goat, a pig and a sow. He also planted potatoes,
which only existed upon the more southerly of the two islands which form New Zealand.

The natives resembled those of Dusky Bay, but they appeared more thoughtless, ran from room
to room during supper, and devoured everything that was offered to them. It was impossible
to induce them to taste wine or brandy, but they were very partial to sugar and water. Cook says,--

"They laid hands on all they saw, but they gave up anything so soon as we made them understand
by signs that we could not, or would not give it to them. They particularly admired glass bottles,
which they called Tawhaw, but when the durability and use of iron was explained to them they
preferred it to glass-ware, ribbons, or white paper. Amongst them were several women, whose
lips were covered with little holes, painted a blueish black, whilst vivid red formed of chalk
and oil, covered their cheeks. Like the natives of Dusky Bay, they had small legs and bodies,
but thick knees, which proves that they take little exercise and sit cross-legged. The almost
perpetual squatting in their pirogues no doubt also adds to these peculiarities.

"The colour of their skin is clear brown, their hair is very black, their faces are round,
their nose and lips are somewhat thick but not flat, their eyes are black and bright enough,
and tolerably expressive.

