 Filch, President of
the Shinnebaug and Great Western Consolidated Line, was so delighted with my appreciation of
his plan for reducing the freight on grain from Nebraska, that he must have written extravagant
accounts of me to his wife; for she sent me, at Christmas, one of the loveliest shawls I ever
beheld.

I had frequently made short addresses at our public meetings, and was considered to have my
share of self-possession; but I never could accustom myself to the keen, disturbing, irritating
atmosphere of the Legislature. Everybody seemed wide-awake and aggressive, instead of pleasantly
receptive; there were so many "points of order," and what not; such complete disregard, among
the members, of each other's feelings; and, finally--a thing I could never understand, indeed--such
inconsistency and lack of principle in the intercourse of the two parties. How could I feel
assured of their sincerity, when I saw the very men chatting and laughing together, in the
lobbies, ten minutes after they had been facing each other like angry lions in the debate?

Mrs. Whiston, also, had her trials of the same character. Nothing ever annoyed her so much
as a little blunder she made, the week after the opening of the session. I have not yet mentioned
that there was already a universal dissatisfaction among the women, on account of their being
liable to military service. The war seemed to have hardly begun, as yet, and conscription was
already talked about; the women, therefore, clamored for an exemption on account of sex. Although
we all felt that this was a retrograde movement, the pressure was so great that we yielded.
Mrs. Whiston, reluctant at first, no sooner made up her mind that the thing must be done, than
she furthered it with all her might. After several attempts to introduce a bill, which were
always cut off by some "point of order," she unhappily lost her usual patience.

I don't know that I can exactly explain how it happened, for what the men call "parliamentary
tactics" always made me fidgetty. But the "previous question" turned up (as it always seemed
to me to do, at the wrong time), and cut her off before she had spoken ten words.

"Mr. Speaker!" she protested; "there is no question, previous to this, which needs the consideration
of the house! This is first in importance, and demands your immediate--"

"Order! order!" came from all parts of the house.

"I am in order--the right is always in order!" she exclaimed, getting more and more excited.
"We women are not going to be contented with the mere show of our rights on this floor; we
demand the substance--"

And so she was going on, when there arose the most fearful tumult. The upshot of it was, that
the speaker ordered the sergeant-at-arms to remove Mrs. Whiston; one of the members, more considerate,
walked across the floor to her, and tried to explain in what manner she was violating the rules;
and in another minute she sat down, so white, rigid and silent that it made me shake in my
shoes to look at her.

"I have made a great blunder," she said to me, that evening; "and it may set us back a little;
but I shall recover my ground." Which she did, I assure you. She cultivated the acquaintance
of the leaders of both parties, studied their tactics, and quietly waited for a good opportunity
to bring in her bill. At first, we thought it would pass; but one of the male members presently
came out with a speech, which dashed our hopes to nothing. He simply took the ground that there
must be absolute equality in citizenship; that every privilege was balanced by a duty, every
trust accompanied with its responsibility. He had no objection to women possessing equal rights
with men--but to give them all civil rights and exempt them from the most important obligation
of service, would be, he said, to create a privileged class--a female aristocracy. It was contrary
to the spirit of our institutions. The women had complained of taxation without representation;
did they now claim the latter without the former?

The people never look more than half-way into a subject, and so this speech was immensely popular.
I will not give Mrs. Whiston's admirable reply; for Mr. Spelter informs me that you will not
accept an article, if it should make more than seventy or eighty printed pages. It is enough
that our bill was "killed," as the men say (a brutal word); and the women of the State laid
the blame of the failure upon us. You may imagine that we suffered under this injustice; but
worse was to come.

As I said before, a great many things came up in the Legislature which I did not understand--and,
to be candid, did not care to understand. But I was obliged to vote, nevertheless, and in this
extremity I depended pretty much on Mrs. Whiston's counsel. We could not well go to the private
nightly confabs of the members--indeed, they did not invite us; and when it came to the issue
of State bonds, bank charters, and such like, I felt as if I were blundering along in the dark.

One day, I received, to my immense astonishment, a hundred and more letters, all from the northern
part of our county. I opened them, one after the other, and--well, it is beyond my power to
tell you what varieties of indignation and abuse fell upon me. It seems that I had voted against
the bill to charter the Mendip Extension Railroad Co. I had been obliged to vote for or against
so many things, that it was impossible to recollect them all. However, I procured the printed
journal, and, sure enough! there, among the nays, was "Strongitharm." It was not a week after
that--and I was still suffering in mind and body--when the newspapers in the interest of the
Rancocus and Great Western Consolidated accused me (not by name, but the same thing--you know
how they do it) of being guilty of taking bribes. Mr. Filch, of the Shinnebaug Consolidated
had explained to me so beautifully the superior advantages of his line, that the Directors
of the other company took their revenge in this vile, abominable way.

That was only the beginning of my trouble. What with these slanders and longing for the quiet
of our dear old home at Burroak, I was almost sick; yet the Legislature sat on, and sat on,
until I was nearly desperate. Then one morning came a despatch from my husband: "Melissa is
drafted--come home!" How I made the journey I can't tell; I was in an agony of apprehension,
and when Mr. Strongitharm and Melissa both met me at the Burroak Station, well and smiling,
I fell into a hysterical fit of laughing and crying, for the first time in my life.

Billy Brandon, who was engaged to Melissa, came forward and took her place like a man; he fought
none the worse, let me tell you, because he represented a woman, and (I may as well say it
now) he came home a Captain, without a left arm--but Melissa seems to have three arms for his sake.

You have no idea what a confusion and lamentation there was all over the State. A good many
women were drafted, and those who could neither get substitutes for love nor money, were marched
to Gaston, where the recruiting Colonel was considerate enough to give them a separate camp.
In a week, however, the word came from Washington that the Army Regulations of the United States
did not admit of their being received; and they came home blessing Mr. Stanton. This was the
end of drafting women in our State.

Nevertheless, the excitement created by the draft did not subside at once. It was seized upon
by the Democratic leaders, as part of a plan already concocted, which they then proceeded to
set in operation. It succeeded only too well, and I don't know when we shall ever see the end
of it.

We had more friends among the Republicans at the start, because all the original Abolitionists
in the State came into that party in 1860. Our success had been so rapid and unforeseen that
the Democrats continued their opposition even after female suffrage was an accomplished fact;
but the leaders were shrewd enough to see that another such election as the last would ruin
their party in the State. So their trains were quietly laid, and the match was not applied
until all Atlantic was ringing with the protestations of the unwilling conscripts and the laments
of their families. Then came, like three claps of thunder in one, sympathy for the women, acquiescence
in their rights, and invitations to them, everywhere, to take part in the Democratic caucuses
and conventions. Most of the prominent women of the State were deluded for a time by this manifestation,
and acted with the party for the sake of the sex.

I had no idea, however, what the practical result of this movement would be, until, a few weeks
before election, I was calling upon Mrs. Buckwalter, and happened to express my belief that
we Republicans were going to carry the State again, by a large majority.

"I am very glad of it," said she, with an expression of great relief, "because then my vote
will not be needed."

"Why!" I exclaimed; "you won't decline to vote, surely?"

"Worse than that," she answered, "I am afraid I shall have to vote with the other side."

Now as I knew her to be a good Republican, I could scarcely believe my ears. She blushed, I
must admit, when she saw my astonished face.

"I'm so used to Bridget, you know," she continued, "and good girls are so very hard to find,
nowadays. She has as good as said that she won't stay a day later than election, if I don't
vote for HER candidate; and what am I to do?"

"Do without!" I said shortly, getting up in my indignation.

"Yes, that's very well for you, with your wonderful PHYSIQUE," said Mrs. Buckwalter, quietly,
"but think of me with my neuralgia, and the pain in my back! It would be a dreadful blow, if
I should lose Bridget."

Well--what with torch-light processions, and meetings on both sides, Burroak was in such a
state of excitement when election came, that most of the ladies of my acquaintance were almost
afraid to go to the polls. I tried to get them out during the first hours after sunrise, when
I went myself, but in vain. Even that early, I heard things that made me shudder. Those who
came later, went home resolved to give up their rights rather than undergo a second experience
of rowdyism. But it was a jubilee for the servant girls. Mrs. Buckwalter didn't gain much by
her apostasy, for Bridget came home singing "The Wearing of the Green," and let fall a whole
tray full of the best china before she could be got to bed.

Burroak, which, the year before, had a Republican majority of three hundred, now went for the
Democrats by more than five hundred. The same party carried the State, electing their Governor
by near twenty thousand. The Republicans would now have gladly repealed the bill giving us
equal rights, but they were in a minority, and the Democrats refused to co-operate. Mrs. Whiston,
who still remained loyal to our side, collected information from all parts of the State, from
which it appeared that four-fifths of all the female citizens had voted the Democratic ticket.
In New Lisbon, our great manufacturing city, with its population of nearly one hundred thousand,
the party gained three thousand votes, while the accessions to the Republican ranks were only
about four hundred.

Mrs. Whiston barely escaped being defeated; her majority was reduced from seven hundred to
forty-three. Eleven Democratic Assemblywomen and four Senatoresses were chosen, however, so
that she had the consolation of knowing that her sex had gained, although her party had lost.
She was still in good spirits: "It will all right itself in time," she said.

You will readily guess, after what I have related, that I was not only not re-elected to the
Legislature, but that I was not even a candidate. I could have born the outrageous attacks
of the opposite party; but the treatment I had received from my own "constituents" (I shall
always hate the word) gave me a new revelation of the actual character of political life. I
have not mentioned half the worries and annoyances to which I was subjected--the endless, endless
letters and applications for office, or for my influence in some way--the abuse and threats
when I could not possibly do what was desired--the exhibitions of selfishness and disregard
of all great and noble principles--and finally, the shameless advances which were made by what
men call "the lobby," to secure my vote for this, that, and the other thing.

Why, it fairly made my hair stand on end to hear the stories which the pleasant men, whom I
thought so grandly interested in schemes for "the material development of the country," told
about each other. Mrs. Filch's shawl began to burn my shoulders before I had worn it a half
a dozen times. (I have since given it to Melissa, as a wedding-present).

Before the next session was half over, I was doubly glad of being safe at home. Mrs. Whiston
supposed that the increased female representation would give her more support, and indeed it
seemed so, at first. But after her speech on the Bounty bill, only two of the fifteen Democratic
women would even speak to her, and all hope of concord of action in the interests of women
was at an end. We read the debates, and my blood fairly boiled when I found what taunts and
sneers, and epithets she was forced to endure. I wondered how she could sit still under them.

To make her position worse, the adjoining seat was occupied by an Irishwoman, who had been
elected by the votes of the laborers on the new Albemarle Extension, in the neighborhood of
which she kept a grocery store. Nelly Kirkpatrick was a great, red-haired giant of a woman,
very illiterate, but with some native wit, and good-hearted enough, I am told, when she was
in her right mind. She always followed the lead of Mr. Gorham (whose name, you see, came before
hers in the call), and a look from him was generally sufficient to quiet her when she was inclined
to be noisy.

When the resolutions declaring the war a failure were introduced, the party excitement ran
higher than ever. The "lunch-room" (as they called it--I never went there but once, the title
having deceived me) in the basement-story of the State House was crowded during the discussion,
and every time Nelly Kirkpatrick came up, her face was a shade deeper red. Mr. Gorham's nods
and winks were of no avail--speak she would, and speak she did, not so very incoherently, after
all, but very abusively. To be sure, you would never have guessed it, if you had read the quiet
and dignified report in the papers on her side, the next day.

THEN Mrs. Whiston's patience broke down. "Mr. Speaker," she exclaimed, starting to her feet,
"I protest against this House being compelled to listen to such a tirade as has just been delivered.
Are we to be disgraced before the world--"

"Oh, hoo! Disgraced, is it?" yelled Nelly Kirkpatrick, violently interrupting her, "and me
as dacent a woman as ever she was, or ever will be! Disgraced, hey? Oh, I'll larn her what
it is to blaggard her betters!"

And before anybody could imagine what was coming, she pounced upon Mrs. Whiston, with one jerk
ripped off her skirt (it was silk, not serge, this time), seized her by the hair, and gave
her head such a twist backwards, that the chignon not only came off in her hands, but as her
victim opened her mouth too widely in the struggle, the springs of her false teeth were sprung
the wrong way, and the entire set flew out and rattled upon the floor.

Of course there were cries of "Order! Order!" and the nearest members--Mr. Gorham among the
first--rushed in; but the mischief was done. Mrs. Whiston had always urged upon our minds the
necessity of not only being dressed according to the popular fashion, but also as elegantly
and becomingly as possible. "If we adopt the Bloomers," she said, "we shall never get our rights,
while the world stands. Where it is necessary to influence men, we must be wholly and truly
WOMEN, not semi-sexed nondescripts; we must employ every charm Nature gives us and Fashion
adds, not hide them under a forked extinguisher!" I give her very words to show you her way
of looking at things. Well, now imagine this elegant woman, looking not a day over forty, though
she was--but no, I have no right to tell it,--imagine her, I say, with only her scanty natural
hair hanging over her ears, her mouth dreadfully fallen in, her skirt torn off, all in open
day, before the eyes of a hundred and fifty members (and I am told they laughed immensely,
in spite of the scandal that it was), and, if you are human beings, you will feel that she
must have been wounded to the very heart.

There was a motion made to expel Nelly Kirkpatrick, and perhaps it might have succeeded--but
the railroad hands, all over the State, made a heroine of her, and her party was afraid of
losing five or six thousand votes; so only a mild censure was pronounced. But there was no
end to the caricatures, and songs, and all sorts of ribaldry, about the occurrence; and even
our party said that, although Mrs. Whiston was really and truly a martyr, yet the circumstance
was an immense damage to THEM. When she heard THAT, I believe it killed her. She resigned her
seat, went home, never appeared again in public, and died within a year. "My dear friend,"
she wrote to me, not a month before her death, "I have been trying all my life to get a thorough
knowledge of the masculine nature, but my woman's plummet will not reach to the bottom of that
chaotic pit of selfishness and principle, expedience and firmness for the right, brutality
and tenderness, gullibility and devilish shrewdness, which I have tried to sound. Only one
thing is clear--we women cannot do without what we have sometimes, alas! sneered at as THE
CHIVELRY OF THE SEX. The question of our rights is as clear to me as ever; but we must find
a plan to get them without being forced to share, or even to SEE, all that men do in their
political lives. We have only beheld some Principle riding aloft, not the mud through which
her chariot wheels are dragged. The ways must be swept before we can walk in them--but how
and by whom shall this be done?"

For my part, I can't say, and I wish somebody would tell me.

Well--after seeing our State, which we used to be proud of, delivered over for two years to
the control of a party whose policy was so repugnant to all our feelings of loyalty, we endeavored
to procure, at least a qualification of intelligence for voters. Of course, we didn't get it:
the exclusion from suffrage of all who were unable to read and write might have turned the
scales again, and given us the State. After our boys came back from the war, we might have
succeeded--but their votes were over-balanced by those of the servant-girls, every one of whom
turned out, making a whole holiday of the election.

