"I have already thought of that. My old friend, Ram Lal, has a lovely garden in rear of his
house and there we will be entirely unobserved. For I have so much that I would say to you."
It was with a sigh of relief that the frightened woman hastily passed through Ram Lal's spacious
snuggery in rear of his jewel mart and was soon ensconced in a little pagoda, where Major Hawke
seated himself at her side and skillfully took up his soft refrains.

In half an hour they were thoroughly en ban rapport, for the graceful Major Hawke adroitly
conversed with his laughing eyes frankly beaming upon the lonely woman. He had drawn a long
breath of relief when he ran over the letter which the delighted Justine frankly submitted
to him for his inspection. The fair Euphrosyne's secret advices justified his warmest anticipations.
He had conquered her heart.

"I will not delay you longer this morning," he said at last, with an artful mock confidence.
"I am infinitely grateful to you for so kindly coming to meet me here. And it is only due to
you to tell you why I begged you to come here to-day. The nature of my important official duties
is such that I am not permitted to exhibit my real character to any one here as yet. I am charged
with some very delicate public duties which may force me to linger here for some time, or perhaps
disappear without notice, only to return in the same mysterious manner. But in me you have
a stanch secret friend always. I have already written to your charming sister, and I expect
to receive from her letters which will be followed by letters to you from her. And I shall
write to-day and tell her of your goodness to me." Miss Justine Delande's eyes were downcast.
Her agitated bosom was throbbing with an unaccustomed fire, and the desire to be safely sheltered
once more in Hugh Johnstone's marble palace was now strong upon her.

Hawke paused, still keeping his pleading eyes fixed upon the fluttering-hearted woman's face.
"Miss Nadine sees absolutely no one!" murmured the governess, "and, of course, I never leave
her. It is a very exacting and laborious position, this charge which I now fill, and of course
the life is a very lonely one, though Nadine is an angel!" enthusiastically cried Miss Justine.

"And so," earnestly said Major Alan Hawke, "I am absolutely prevented from seeing you, unless
you will trust yourself to me, and come here again." The frightened woman cast a glance at
the unfamiliar loveliness of the secluded garden, with the hidden kiosques, sacred to Ram Lal's
furtive amours.

"I dare not!" she said, with trembling lips. "I would like to come, but--"

"Listen!" said Alan Hawke, softly taking her unresisting hand, "I will confide in you. I must,
even to-day, go to Hugh Johnstone's house. He has bidden me to a private interview. And he
gives a tiffin in my honor. I have known him in past years. He does not as yet know of my official
position. My duties are secret. My very honor forbids me to divulge it. I dare not openly acknowledge
an acquaintance with you, with your sister. It rests with you that we meet again, for my sake,
for your own sake, for your sister's sake. I cannot lose you for a mere quibble."

There was a genuine alarm in Justine Delande's voice as she started up, crying out, "You come
to us to-day?"

"Precisely!" gravely said Major Hawke, as he tried a long shot. "Both Captain Anstruther and
myself have the gravest secret duties in connection with Hugh Johnstone's future. He soon may
be Sir Hugh, you know. And I dare not divulge to him my own delicate functions in this matter.
Now you understand me at last," said Hawke, warmly pressing Justine Delande's hand. "I feel
that I must not lose you, because I have my duty to perform, and I trust my honor to you. All
will be well if you will only favor me with your womanly kindness, and trust to me as frankly
as I to you. We must meet to-day at Hugh Johnstone's as absolute strangers. We must also remain
strangers to all appearances for a time," he said at last. The Swiss spinster gazed up at him
piteously.

"May I not even tell Nadine?" she faltered.

"Ah!" carelessly said Alan Hawke, "she is a mere child; I shall probably never see her. It
is you alone that I would trust. Will you not come here again? I dare not, for your own sake,
detain you longer now." The timid woman glanced hurriedly at her watch.

"I have been here already too long, and I must go! And there is so much I would say to you!"
She was almost handsome in her blushing confusion.

"Then you will come again, here? Ram Lal is my old factotum!" the young Major pleaded.

"I will come!" the half-subjugated woman whispered under her breath. "But when?" Her eyes were
meekly downcast and her faltering voice trembled.

"The day after to-morrow, at the same time," said Alan Hawke, his heart leaping up in a secret
victory, "but no living soul must ever know of it. I will be here in the pagoda, waiting for
you. Ram Lal will wait for you himself and admit you. Do you promise?" he said, with a glance
which set her pallid cheeks aflame.

"I promise! I promise! Let me go, now!" gasped the excited woman. With stately courtesy, the
Major then led her back into the jewel merchant's luxurious lounging-room.

"Wait here for a single moment!" he whispered as he quickly poured out a glass of cordial.
And, then, returning in a few moments, he clasped upon the woman's wrist a bracelet of old
Indian gold, whose flexible links glittered with the fire of a row of old Indian mine stones.
Justine Delande sat mute, as if dreaming.

"Our little secret is now all our own!" he pleasantly murmured. "Remember! Should we meet at
the marble house, you do not know me! Can you trust yourself? You must--for my sake! This will
help you to remember our first meeting."

"You may depend upon me, whenever you may wish to call upon me," she whispered. "I will come!"
and then she fled away, with soft, gliding steps, to regain the safety of her own room before
the trying hour of tiffin.

Major Alan Hawke closed the door, and laughed softly as he threw himself into a chair. "They
are all the same!" he mused. "Not a bad morning's work! For she will never tell our little
secret! And she will surely come again! She may be my salvation here! Madame Louison, I now
debit you just thirty pounds!" laughed Major Alan Hawke, as he deftly blew a kiss in the direction
of Allahabad. "You shall pay for this bracelet, and much more! You shall pay for all! And I'll
set this soft-hearted Swiss woman on to watch you, and you shall pay her well, too! Now, for
my old friend, Hugh Johnstone!" He waited in a most happy frame of mind till his carriage bore
him to the club for an elaborate Anglo-Indian toilet.

There was a crowd of eager gossips secretly tracking him who watched him roll away in state
to the marble house.

"By Jove! I believe that he is the coming man!" said old Captain Verner. "I wonder if this
handsome young beggar is really going in for the Veiled Rose of Delhi. Just his damned luck!"
And then the loungers left the club window and drank deeply confusion to the would-be wooer's
stratagems.

All unconscious of their busy curiosity, the gallant Major Alan Hawke calmly descended at the
marble house, with a secret oath now registered to ignore the very existence of Nadine Johnstone,
"The old man is always harping on his daughter," he mused. "I must throw this old beggar off
his guard thoroughly to-day, once and for all. He must never think that I, too, am 'harping
on his daughter.'

"But only let me get to the core of this old secret of the jewels, and I will find a way to
frighten the baronet-to-be until he opens his miserly old heart." And so the wary guest sought
his old friend's presence. When Major Alan Hawke's neat trap drew up before the marble house
there was an officious crowd of Hindu underlings in waiting to welcome the expected guest.

Casting his eyes around the wide hall gleaming with its superb trophies of priceless arms,
with a quick glance at the crowd of sable retainers, Major Hawke realized in all the barren
splendors of the first story the absence of any womanly hand. As he followed the obsequious
house butler into a vast reception room, he murmured:

"A diplomatic tiffin, I will warrant! The old fox is sly." He wandered idly about the Commissioner's
sanctum, admiring the precious loot of years, displayed with an artfully artless confusion.
On the walls, a series of beautiful Highland scenes recalled the Land o' Lakes. Pausing before
a sketch of a stern old Scottish keep of the moyen age, Major Alan Hawke softly sneered: "Oatmeal
Castle! The family stronghold of the old line of the Sandy Johnstone's, nee Fraser." And, picking
up the last number of the Anglo-Indian Times, he then affected a composure which he was far
from feeling.

"Damn this sly Scotsman! Why does he not show up?" was the chafing soliloquy of the Major,
now anxious to seal his re-entree into Delhi society with the open friendship of the most powerful
European civilian within the battered walls of the wicked city. He needed all his nerve now,
for Hugh Fraser Johnstone was a past master of the arts of dissimulation.

In fact, the mauvais quart d'heure was really due to the innate womanly weakness of Mademoiselle
Justine Delande. This guileless Swiss maiden had been carried off her feet by the romantic
episode of the morning. Her cool palm still tingled with the meaning pressure of the handsome
Major's hand! She had hastened away to her own apartment, as a wounded tigress seeks its cave
for a last stand! The concealment of the diamond bracelet was a matter of necessity, and, with
a beating heart, she buried it deep under the poor harvest of paltry Delhi trinkets which she
had already gathered, with a mere magpie acquisitiveness.

Alan Hawke had builded better than he knew, when he selected this same bauble. He had been
guided by a chance remark of Ram Lal's. "Give her that," said the crafty old jeweler. "She
has priced it a dozen times since her first coming here." It was the Ultima Thule of personal
decoration to her. The Swiss governess reserved the secret delight of donning the glittering
ornament until she was positive that no tell-tale spy had observed her innocent assignation
with her sister's chivalric friend. "He must be rich and powerful," she murmured as she fled
from her room to play the safety game of being found with the heiress when her Prince Charming
should arrive. Miss Nadine Johnstone failed not to observe the unusual color mantling her sedate
friend's cheeks.

"You look as if you had received some good news. Is the mail in?" queried Miss Johnstone.

"Not yet. I hastened back, for I forgot to take my watch and was belated. I fear I am late,
even now, for tiffin," demurely replied the Swiss maiden, dropping for the first time in her
life into the baleful arts of the other daughters of Eve. She had broken the ice of propriety
in which her past life had been congealed and an insidious pleasure now thrilled her quickened
veins, as she felt herself possessed of a secret, one linking her to an attractive member of
the dangerous sex, and a hero of romance, a very Don Juan in seductive softness. Her knees
trembled at a sudden summons to report to the Master of the marble house, forthwith.

Her bosom heaved with a vague alarm as she timidly descended the grand stair, and was conducted
to the private snuggery of the Commissioner adjoining his own apartments. "Does he know aught
of the meeting?" she questioned herself, in the throes of a sudden fright. She was somewhat
reassured as she observed the carriage drawn up in the compound and, by hazard, caught a glance
of Alan Hawke's graceful martial figure, as he stood regarding her intently from the safe shelter
of the darkened reception-room. Her heart bounded with delight as her Prince Charming smilingly
placed his finger on his lip.

A sense of manly protection, never felt before, gave her the strength of ten as she then glided
along boldly to face her gray-headed master. For now she knew that she had a champion at her
side, a man professionally brave, both resolute and charming. Her promise to meet Alan Hawke
again at the jeweler's now took on a roseate hue.

"I must surely keep my plighted word at all risks," she murmured to herself. For the sage reflection
that she owed a sacred duty to her sister's friend, now came to comfort her, in her heart of
hearts. It was almost a pious duty which lay before her now. And so she became brave in the
knowledge of the innocent secret shared between herself and the handsome official visitor.

To her delight and relief she found it an easy task to face Hugh Johnstone, after that one
reassuring glance. Her stern employer failed to pierce the muslin fortifications of her guilty
bosom and discern the moral turpitude lurking there. She stole a last anxious glance at her
still plump wrist where the diamond bracelet had softly clasped her flesh, and then softly
sighed in relief as the master calmly said:

"Miss Justine, I have a gentleman of some distinction to entertain to-day at tiffin. An official
visitor. I would be thankful if you would do the honors. Will you kindly join us in the reception
room in half an hour, and I will present Major Hawke, my old friend. He has just returned from
England."

"And Miss Nadine?" meekly demanded the happy woman. The old Commissioner's brow darkened, as
he shortly said: "My daughter will be served in her rooms, as usual on such formal occasions.
These interlopers are no part of her life. We may soon leave for Europe, and she is therefore
better off to remain a stranger to these merely local acquaintances. It is very unlikely that
we shall ever re-visit India! Will you see her and say that I purpose driving out with her later?"

No woman in India was as happy, at that particular moment, as the Genevese, who merely bowed
in silence, and glided softly away, having escaped the levin-bolt of Hugh Johnstone's wrath,
ever ready, lurking under his bushy, white eyebrows. It was the work of a moment for her to
fulfill her simple task as messenger, and this done, she burned to hide herself in her own
coign of vantage, for certain new-born ideas of personal decoration were crystallizing in her
excited brain. For the first time in her life, she would be fair to man's views; so as to justify
the partner of her momentous secret in the complimentary remarks which, even now, made her
ears tingle in delight.

"Do you know aught of this Major Hawke who comes to-day?" wearily, said the listless girl.
"Some one of these red-faced old relics of my father's early life, I suppose!" The Rose of
Delhi was gazing wistfully out upon the wilderness of beauty in the tangled gardens, sweeping
far out to where the high stone wall shut off the glare and flying dust of the Chandnee Chouk.

"Certainly not, Nadine!" softly said the governess. "This is only a peopled wilderness to me!"
Her heart smote her as the girl, with a sudden lonely sinking of the heart, threw her arms
around the neck of her startled companion.

"I am so unhappy here--so wretched, this is but a gleaning white stone prison, Justine! I stifle
in this wretched land! Why did my father bring me here to die by inches?" There was no pretense
in her stormy sobs.

"We are soon going home, Darling!" cried the affrighted Swiss. "Just now your father told me
that we were all to leave India forever, and at once." And so, gently soothing the unhappy
girl, orphaned in her heart, Justine Delande escaped to the first essay of her life in high
decorative art. "There is some strange mystery of the past in all this! He has a heart of flint,
this old tyrant!" murmured Justine, as with fingers trembling in haste she completed a toilet,
which later caused even old Hugh Johnstone to growl "By Gad! This Swiss woman's not half bad
looking!" A last pang, caused by the keen secret sorrow of not daring to wear her diamond bracelet,
was effaced by the rising tide of indignation in Justine Delande's awakened heart. There were
strange emotional currents fitfully thrilling through her usually placid veins as she stole
a last glance at herself in the mirror. "A tyrant to the daughter. I warrant that in the old
days he broke the mother's heart! He never mentions her! Not a picture is here--nothing--not
even a memento, not a reference to the woman who gave him this lovely child! Her life, her
death, even her resting place, are all wrapped in the selfish and brutal silence of a selfish
tyrant! He should have been only a drill sergeant to knock about the half-crazed brutes who
stagger under a soldier's pack over these burning plains!" It suddenly occurred to her that
in some mysterious way Major Alan Hawke's coming would contribute to the rescue of the captive
Princess.

Justine Delande really loved her beautiful charge with all the fond attachment of a mature
woman for the one rose blossoming in her lonely heart. Their gray passionless lives had run
on together since Nadine's childhood, as brooks quietly mingle, seeking the unknown sea! She
now felt the wine of life stirring within her, and, seizing upon another justification for
her dangerous secret association with Alan Hawke, she murmured: "I will tell him of all this.
He has high influence with the Home Government. This Captain Anstruther on the Viceroy's staff
is certainly his firm friend. We must leave here and return to dear old Switzerland. Perhaps
the Major himself knows the secret of the family history!"

And there was a meaning light in her eyes as she stole back to Nadine's room when the silver
gong sounded, and throwing her arms around the girl, whispered: "We are going home soon, darling!
Be brave and trust to me! I will find out the story of the past and tell you all, my darling!"
Justine Delande unwound the girl's arms from round her neck, while honest tears trembled in
her eyes.

The low cry: "My mother! My darling mother! He never even breathes the name!" had loosened
all the tide of repressed feeling long pent up in Justine Delande's heart.

"Trust to me! You shall know all, dearest! I am sure that Euphrosyne knows, and we shall see
her soon!" So with an added reason for their second meeting, Miss Justine descended the grand
marble stair, murmuring: "He shall tell me all he knows; he can search the past here! He can
help me, and he must--for Nadine's sake!"

And as he bowed low before her in courteous acknowledgment of the master's presentation, Alan
Hawke caught the lambent gleam of the newly awakened fires in Justine Delande's eyes. "She
is another woman," he mused. With one silent glance of veiled recognition, Alan Hawke returned
to his diplomatic fence with the wary old nabob who sat at the head of the glittering table.
He was in no doubt now as to the second meeting at Ram Lal Singh's shop, for Justine Delande's
eyes promised him more than even his habitual hardihood would have dared to ask. "What the
devil's up now?" he mused, "Something about the girl, I warrant. I suppose that the old brute
has exiled her here for safety." And then and there, Alan Hawke swore to reach the side of
the Veiled Rose of Delhi, though the cold gray eyes of the host never caught him off his guard
a moment in the two hours of the pompously drawn-out feast. Both the men were keenly watching
each other now.

It had been no mere accidental slip of the tongue which guided Alan Hawke in his greeting of
the old ex-Commissioner when Hugh Johnstone entered the reception-room, a study in gray and
white, with only the three priceless pigeon-blood rubies lending a color to his snowy linen.
"Upon my word, Sir Hugh, you are looking younger than I ever saw you," said the visitor gracefully
advancing.

"You're a bit premature, are you not, Hawke?" dryly said the civilian, opening a silver cheroot
box, once the property of a Royal Prince of Oude. Hugh Johnstone motioned his visitor to be
seated, and keenly watched the younger man.

"I am on the inside of the matter," soberly said Alan Hawke. "It was an open secret when I
left London, and I've heard more since. A brief delay only,--a matter of a few months--no more."

"Take a weed! They serve in half an hour!" abruptly said Hugh Johnstone, as if anxious to change
the subject. The old man then strode forward and closed the door. Then, turning sharply upon
his visitor, frankly demanded, "Now, tell me why you are here?"

"That depends partly upon your affairs," said Hawke, meeting his questioner's gaze unflinchingly.
"I may have something to say to you about the Baronetcy, by and bye." He paused to notice the
keen old Scotchman wince under the thrust, "but, in the mean time, I am merely waiting orders
here, and I want you to post me about the condition of affairs up there." He vaguely indicated
with his thumb the far-distant battlement of the Roof of the World. Hugh Johnstone rang a silver
bell, and muttered a few words in Hindostanee to an attendant. "I must know more from Calcutta
before I can explain just where I stand," said the renegade soldier, with caution.

Before the silver tray loaded with ante-prandial beverages was produced, Hugh Johnstone quietly
turned to his guest. "Did you see Anstruther in London?" he demanded, with a scarcely veiled
eagerness.

"We were together some days," very neatly rejoined the now confident Major. "In fact, I'm to
operate partly under his personal directions. We are old friends."

"I wonder when he will return?" dreamily said Johnstone, as if the subject was growing annoying
in its bold directness.

"I believe that he has a long leave--a furlough of a year," lightly answered the Major. "In
fact, I am to carry on some official matters for him in his absence, but he is wary and non-committal."

"What is his English address?" abruptly said Johnstone, as they bowed formally over their glasses.

"I do not know," frankly returned Hawke. "I am to send all reports to headquarters in Calcutta."

"Are you going down there soon?" asked the old nabob, with a growing uneasiness.

"Not unless I am sent for by the Viceroy," quietly said the Major, with a listless air, gazing
around admiringly on the magnificence of the apartment.

"I will give you a letter to my nephew, Douglas Fraser, when you do go," said Johnstone. "He
is a fine youngster, and he will have charge of all my Indian affairs, if I go home. He is
in the P. and O. office. I would like you to know him."

"I did not know that you had any family connection here," replied the Major with a start of
innocent surprise.

"Only this boy," hastily replied the incipient baronet, "and my daughter. She is, however,
a mere child--a mere child. I have seen the leaves of the family tree wither and drop off one
by one." The host then stiffly rose, and formally said, "Let us go in!"

"You are good for a score of years yet," jovially remarked Major Hawke, as he gazed at the
well-preserved outer man of his uneasy entertainer. "The harpoon is deeply fixed in the old
whale," mused Hawke, as he followed Hugh Johnstone. "He begins to flounder now."

Conscious of the mental alarm which Hugh Johnstone could not altogether conceal, Major Hawke
had simply bowed, in his grand manner, when the host presented his guest to Mademoiselle Delande.
"I will let the old beggar lead out," mused Hawke. "This royal spread is an excuse for any
amount of silence." And the Anglo-Indian renegade gazed admiringly at the thousand and one
adjuncts of a blended English comfort and Indian luxury.

"Ever been in Geneva?" suddenly demanded Hugh Johnstone, with a glance at his two companions.

"He's an uneasy old devil. He is trying to trap me now," thought Hawke, who innocently replied:
"Long years ago, when I was a mere lad. I'm told the town has been vastly improved by the Duke
of Brunswick's legacy. I've not seen it in later years."

"Miss Delande is a Genevese," remarked the host.

"I congratulate you, Mademoiselle," politely said the Major. "It is a famous city to date from."

It was evident that the spinster was held in reverent awe of her employer, for she guarded
a judicious silence, as with a formal bow she at last left the table at the graciously permitting
nod of Hugh Johnstone. There was a cold and brooding restraint, which had seemed to cast a
chill even over the sultry Indian midday, but Justine's smile was bright and winning as she
faintly acknowledged with a blushing cheek Major Hawke's gallantry as he sprang up and opened
the door for the retiring lady. "She will come, she will come," gayly throbbed the Major's
happy heart.

Alan Hawke was now thoroughly on his guard. He had never lifted an eyebrow at the mention of
Miss Johnstone. He had dropped Justine Delande like a plummet into the lake of forgetfulness,
and watched Hugh Johnstone's listless trifling with the dainties of the superb collation. The
raw-boned old Scotsman leaned heavily back in his chair.

His bony hands were thin and claw-like, his bushy white beard and eyebrows gave him a "service"
aspect, while his cold blue eye gleamed out pale and menacing as the Pole star on wintry arctic
seas. His broad chest was sunken, his tall form was bent, and a visible air of dejection and
unrest had replaced the sturdy vigor of his early manhood. He was sipping a glass of pale ale
in silence when Hawke neatly applied the lance once more. "It must be a great change for you
to leave India, Johnstone, but you need rest, and a general shaking up. You have a good deal
to leave here. I suppose your nephew--"

"He's a good lad, but a stranger to me, Hawke," broke in the host. "The fact is, I am as yet
undecided. I go home for my daughter's sake; it's no place for her out here," he sternly said.
"You know what Indian life is?"

Hawke bowed, and mutely cried, "Peccavi." He had been a part of it. "I'm waiting for the action
of the Government. This Baronetcy. I must talk with you about it. I might have had the Star
of India. You see, it's an empty honor. And I hate to break away for good, after all. Do you
know anything from Anstruther? He was up here, you know."

"I have him now!" secretly exulted Hawke, as he said gravely, "You know what duty is, I cannot
speak as yet, but you can depend on me as soon as my honor will permit--"

"Yes, yes, I know," said Hugh Johnstone, with a sigh, rising from the table. "You must make
yourself at home here. In fact, I am thinking of sending my daughter back to Europe. Douglas
Fraser can have them well bestowed; that is, if I have to remain and fight out this Baronetcy
affair, then I could put you up here." Alan Hawke bowed his thanks.

They had wandered back to the reception-room. With an affected surprise the Major consulted
his watch. "By Jove! I've got a heavy official mail to prepare, and I'm to dine to-day with
Harry Hardwicke, of the Engineers. General Willoughby wants a private conference with me, and
Hardwicke is the only confidential man he has. He gets his Majority soon, and Willoughby will
lose him on promotion. A fine fellow and a rising man."

"See here, Hawke! Come in to-morrow and dine with me at seven. I want to have a long talk with
you," said the uneasy host.

"You may absolutely depend on me, Sir Hugh," heartily answered the visitor, with a fine forgetfulness
as to the title. When he rode away, Major Hawke caught sight of a womanly figure at a window
above him, watching his retreat in due state, and there was the flutter of a handkerchief as
his carriage drove around the oval. "I wonder if Ram Lal knows about the jewels. I must buy
him out and out, or make Berthe Louison do it unconsciously for me," so mused the victorious
renegade. "He is afraid of me! Now to dispatch Ram Lal to Allahabad. I must only see Berthe
Louison, at night, in her own bungalow, for my shy old bird would take the alarm were we seen
together. What the devil is her game? I know mine, and I swear that I will soon know hers.
I have him guessing now. I must hunt up Hardwicke and call on old Willoughby to keep up the
dumb show. Johnstone may watch me--very likely he will. He is afraid of some coup de theatre."
He drove in a leisurely way back to the Club and sported the oak after giving Ram Lal his last
orders.

"I think I hear the jingle of gold 'in the near future,' as the Yankees say; and, Miss Justine,
you shall open the way to the veiled Rose of Delhi for me, while Berthe Louison tortures this
old vetch. Place aux dames! Place aux dames!" he laughed.

BOOK II. "A DEVIL FOR LUCK."

CHAPTER VI. THE MYSTERIOUS BUNGALOW.

If the fates favored Major Alan Hawke upon this eventful day, for as he was contentedly awaiting
the news of Ram Lal's departure for Allahabad, the card of Captain Harry Hardwicke, A. D. C.,
and of the Engineers, was sent up to him. With a neat bit of Indian art, old Ram Lal had sent
the carriage around to report, as a mute signal of his own departure. It was a flood tide of
good fortune!

In ten minutes, the Major and his welcome guest were spinning along in the cool of the evening,
toward the deserted ruins of the old city of Delhi! As they passed through the Lahore gate,
Hardwicke's pith helmet was doffed with a jerk, as a superb carriage passed them, proceeding
in a stately swing. Major Alan Hawke bowed low as he caught the cold eye of the would-be Sir
Hugh Johnstone.

"Who are the ladies, Hardwicke?" laughed the Major, as he saw the young officer's face suddenly
crimson. "For a man who won the V. C. in your dashing style, you seem to be a bit beauty-shy!"
They were hardly settled yet for their cozy chat. Hardwicke lit a cheroot to cover his evident
confusion.

"I know" he slowly answered, "that one of them is Miss or Madame Delande, old Fraser's house
duenna--I will still call him Fraser, you see--the other is the mystery of Delhi. Popularly
supposed to be the old boy's daughter, and his sole heiress, Miss Nadine," concluded the young
aid-de-camp. "The old curmudgeon keeps her judiciously veiled from mortal ken. No man but General
Willoughby has ever exchanged a word with her. The dear old boy--his memory does not go back
beyond his last B. and S.--he can't even sketch her beauty in words. And she is as hazy, even
to the Madam-General--our secret commanding officer. There is a continuous affront to society
in this old monomaniac's treatment of that girl."

"You would like to storm the Castle Perilous, and awaken the Sleeping Beauty?" archly said
Hawke, as they rolled along under a huge alley of banyan trees.

"Not at all," gravely said Hardwicke. "She is only a girl, like other girls, I presume; but,
this old fool is only fit for the old days, when the kings of Oude flew kites and hunted with
the cheetah; or, half drunken, dozed, lolling away their lives in these marble-screened zenanas,
with the automatic beauties of the seraglio. Our English cannon have knocked all that nonsense
silly. Here is a high-spirited, Christian English girl, shut up like a slave. It's only the
unfairness of the thing that strikes me." Hawke eyed the blue-eyed, rosy young fellow of twenty-six
with an evident interest. Stalwart and symmetrical in figure, Hardwicke's frank, manly face
glowed in indignation.

"You've won your spurs quickly out here," said Hawke. "You have not been long enough in India
to case-harden into the cursed egotism of this hard-hearted land, and remember, age, crawling
on, has indurated old 'Fraser-Johnstone.' He was never an amiable character. What do the ladies
of the city say of this strange social situation? I never knew that the old beast had a daughter
till to-day."

Captain Hardwicke wearily replied: "They all hold aloof, of course, after some very rough rebuffs,
as I believe the old boy will clear out for good when he gets his baronetcy. It's possible
that the girl is half a foreigner after all," mused Hardwicke. "The duenna is surely a continental."

"Yes; but she seems to be a very nice person. I was there to-day at tiffin," finally said Major
Hawke,

"She had very little to say, and cleared out at once. I did not see Miss Johnstone." They fell
into an easy, rattling chronicle of things past and present, and before the two hours' ride
was over, the astute Major felt that he had divined General Willoughby's object in sending
his pet aid-de-camp to reconnoitre Hawke's lines and pierce the mystery of his rumored employment.

"I suppose that you will come up and duly report to the Chief," rather uneasily said Captain
Hardwicke, as they neared the Club on their return. Hawke cast a glance at the superb domes
of the Jumma Musjid towering in the thin air above them, as he slowly answered:

"I am only here on a roving secret commission. I shall call, of course, and pay my personal
respects to His Excellency, the General Commanding. I am an official will-o'-the-wisp, just
now, but my blushing honors are strictly civil, and, by the way, in expectancy. Where does
your promotion carry you?"

"Oh, anywhere--everywhere," laughed Hardwicke. "I may be sent home. I'm entitled to a long
leave--there's my wound, you know. I've only stayed on here to oblige Willoughby." It was easy
to see that the frank, splendid young fellow was but awkwardly filling his role of polite inquisitor,
for they talked shop a couple of hours over a bottle at the Club, and Hardwicke at last took
his leave, no whit the wiser.

"If he did not post me as to the heiress, at least, old Willoughby gets no valuable information,"
laughed the Major, that night. "The boy seems to be ambitious and heart-whole. Old Johnstone
will soon clear out to the Highlands, I suppose, with this hidden pearl." But Major Hawke laughed
softly when the morning brought to him a personal invitation to dine "informally" with General
Willoughby. "Wants to know, you know," laughed the Major. "All I have to do is to keep cool
and let him drink himself jolly, and so, answer his own questions."

"That Hardwicke is an uncommonly fine young fellow." So decided the Major as he splashed into
his morning tub. There was one man, however, in Delhi who now viewed Hawke's presence with
a secret alarm, amounting to dismay. It was the stern old miserly Scotsman who had paced his
floor half the night in a vain effort to reassure himself. "What does he know? I must have
old Ram Lal watch him," mused Hugh Johnstone. "I was a fool not to have cleared out from here
months ago, before these spies were set upon me. First, Anstruther; now this fellow, Hawke,
and, perhaps, even Hardwicke. If it were not for the old matter I would go to-morrow, and let
the Baronetcy go hang--or find me in the Highlands. But, I must make one last attempt to get
them out. I must--" and the old man slept the weary sleep of utter exhaustion.

Before the nabob awoke, Captain Henry Hardwicke, swinging away on his morning gallop, had reviewed
the strange attitude of Major Hawke. "He is very intimate with Hugh Johnstone, and he is a
man of the world, too. I will yet see this charming child, when the ban of her prison seclusion
is lifted." He vaguely remembered the one timid and girlish glance of the beautiful dark eyes,
when he had been presented, pro-forma, to the Veiled Rose upon that one memorable state visit.
He then rode out of his way to gaze at the exterior of the great marble house, and was rewarded
by the sight of a graceful woman walking there under her governess's escort in the dewy freshness
of the early morn.

He doffed his helmet as Miss Justine paused among the flowers, and then Miss Nadine Johnstone
looked up to see the graceful rider disappear behind the fringing trees.

"That was Captain Hardwicke, was it not?" asked the lonely girl. Miss Justine was busied in
dreaming of her meeting of the morrow.

"Yes, it was," she absently replied.

"They tell me that he nobly risked his life to save his wounded friend," dreamily continued
Nadine. "He gave back to a father the life of an only son at the risk of his own. How brave--how
noble." And Justine gazed at her charge in surprise, as the beautiful Nadine bent her head
to greet her sister flowers.

The resolute Major Hawke, at his cheerful breakfast, was busied with thoughts of the coming
arrival of Hugh Johnstone's secret foe. "I must have money from her at once to swing Ram Lal's
Private Inquiry Bureau and to mystify these quid nuncs here. For I must entertain the clubmen
a bit. It's as well to begin, also, to pot down a bit of her money for the future. She shall
pay her way, as she goes." And, with a view to the further cementing of his rising social pyramid,
he planned a very neat little dinner of half a dozen of the most available men whom he had
selected as being "in the swim." "The next thing is to discover what the devil she really wants
of old Johnstone! She must show her hand now, and then soon call on me for help."

He gazed at his little memorandum of "pressing engagements." "A pretty fair book of events.
First, old Johnstone's dinner--more of the boring process--then to welcome my strange employer,
and, after that, Mademoiselle Justine! Later, I'll have my own little innings with General
Willoughby, and, finally play the gracious host while Ram Lal watches Madame Louison's cat-like
play upon her victim. Money I must have, her money first, to pay the piper," he laughed, which
proposed liberality was destined to doubly bribe the wily old jewel merchant. At that very
moment Ram Lal, securely hidden away in the native compartment of the train, rushing on from
Allahabad toward Delhi, was dreaming of the long-deferred triumph of a life!

"If he has them--if they can be traced--they shall be mine if every diamond gleams red with
his heart's blood! Perhaps these two strange people have brought them. Who knows? They are
rich; it may be the jewels!" And Ram Lal dreamed of a tripartite watch upon the three principal
figures of the opening drama. "The jewels were a king's ransom. But I shall know all," he softly
smiled, for every attendant of the beautiful recluse now burning to meet her advance spy was
a sworn confederate of Ram Lal in a dark brotherhood whose very name no man even dared to lisp!
And so the long, blazing day wore away, bringing the hunter and the hunted nearer together.
The mysterious bungalow was now alive with the slaves of luxury, while Alan Hawke secretly
inspected the last finishing touches, for he, alone, was master of the private entrance once
used by a man whose glittering rank had lifted him presumably above all human weaknesses!

Major Hawke departed for the Club in a very good humor, after his hour of inspection of the
jewel box bungalow now ready for his fair employer. It was a perfect cachette d' amour, and
its superb gardens, so long deserted, were now only a tangled jungle of luxuriant loveliness!
The light foot of the beauty for whom this Rosamond's Bower had been prepared had wandered
far away, for a substantial block of marble now held down the great man, who had in the old
days found the welcome of his hidden Egeria so delicious in this long-deserted bungalow. For
the dead Numa Pompilius slept now with his fathers, in far away Merrie England, and--as is
the wont--the mortuary inscriptions on his tomb recorded only his virtues. But both his virtues
and failings were of no greater weight now to a forgetful generation, which knew not the departed
Joseph, than the drifted leaves in the garden alleys where the romance of the old still lingered
in ghostly guise! "There were no birds in last year's nest," but the mysterious bungalow had
been hastily arranged for the lovely successor to the vanished queen of a cobweb Paradise.
The bungalow, itself, was adroitly constructed with a special reference to seclusion as well
as comfort. An Indian Love's Labyrinth.

"Just the very place!" murmured Alan Hawke, as he hastened away to dress for the diner de famille,
with his timorous secret foe, Hugh Johnstone. "I wonder if my canny friend, in his humble days
as Hugh Fraser, ever assisted at lespelits diners de Trianon here?

"Probably not, for friend Hugh was ever apter in squeezing the nimble rupee than in chanting
sonnets to his mistress's eyebrow. How the devil did he ever catch a wife, such as Valerie
Delavigne must have been? Either a case of purchase or starvation, I'll warrant!"

Ram Lal Singh was growing dubious as to the perfect sweep of his hungry talons over Madame
Louison's future expenditures. He had noted, with some secret alarm, a grave-faced, sturdy
Frenchman, still in the forties, who was cast in the role of either courier or butler for the
beautiful Mem-Sahib, whose loveliness in extenso he so far only divined by guess-work.

In the stranger lady's special car there was also, at her side, a truculent Parisienne-looking
woman of thirty, whose bustling air, hawk-like visage, and perfect aplomb bespoke the confidential
French maid. "I must tell Hawke Sahib of this at once," mused Ram Lal. "We must, in some way,
get rid of these foreign servants." The man had a semi-military air, heightened by the sweeping
scar--a slash from a neatly swung saber. This purple facial adornment was Jules Victor's especial
pride. In these days of "ninety" he often recurred to the stroke which had made his fortune
in the dark reign of the Commune.

As a wild Communard soldier he had risked his life vainly to save the aged Colonel Delavigne
from a furious mob, for the red rosette in the old officer's buttonhole had cost him his life
in an awkward promenade, and this sent the orphans, Valerie and Alixe Delavigne, adrift upon
the mad maelstrom of Paris incendie. While Ram Lal glowered in his dissatisfaction, Madame
Berthe Louison complacently regarded her two secret protectors on guard in the special car.
For the strange turn of Fortune's wheel, which had left Alixe Delavigne alone in the world,
and rich enough to effect her special vengeance upon her one enemy, had given to Jules Victor
and his wife Marie a sinecure for life as the personal attendants of the soi-disant Madame
Berthe Louison.

Marie was but a wild-eyed child of ten when Jules had picked her up in the flaming streets
of Paris, and they had graduated together from the gutters of Montmartre into the later control
of Madame Louison's pretty little pied d' terre in Paris, hard by Auteuil, in that dreamy little
impasse, the Rue de Berlioz. Neither of these attendants were faint-hearted, for their young
hearts had been attuned early to the wolfish precocity of the Parisian waif. And they had followed
their resolute mistress in her weary quest of the past years.

Berthe Louison smiled in a comforting sense of security, as she gazed listlessly out upon the
landscape flying by.

The two servants, modestly voyaging out to Calcutta, on a telegraphic summons, to embark at
Marseilles, had preceded the Empress of India by ten days. So, neither friendless, nor without
untiring devotion, was the wary woman who had thus secretly armed herself against any "little
mistake" on the part of Major Alan Hawke. Certain private instructions to the manager of Grindlay
& Co., at Calcutta, had caused that respectable party to open his eyes in wonder.

"Of course, Madame, our local agent at Delhi will act in your behalf, with both secrecy and
discretion. I have already written him a private cipher letter in regard to your every wish
being fulfilled."

Such is the potent influence of a letter of credit, practically approaching the "unlimited."

"If I could only use Jules in the double capacity of gentleman and factotum, I would dress
him up a la mode and let him approach Hugh Johnstone," mused the beautiful tourist, but I must
be content to use this cold-hearted adventurer Hawke, for he has at least a surface rank of
gentleman, and, moreover, he knows my enemy! I must keep Jules and Marie every moment at my
side, for some strange things happen in India by day as well as by night. Sir Hugh may dream
of some 'unusually distressing accident' as a means of safely ridding himself of a long slumbering
specter."

"Of course, this sly jeweler is Alan Hawke's spy! A few guineas extra, however, may buy his
'inner consciousness' for me," she mused. And so it fell out that Ram Lal Singh was destined
to drop into the secret service of both Hawke and the fair invader! And, as yet, neither of
his intending employers could divine the dark purposes of the oily rascal who had stealthily
watched Hugh Fraser for long years to slake the hungry vengeance of a despoiled traitor to
the last King of Oude.

Major Hawke found the tete e tete dinner with Hugh Johnstone a mere dull social parade. There
was no demure face at the feast slyly regarding him, for while the two watchful secret foes
exchanged old reminiscence and newer gossip, Justine Delande was cheering the lonely girl,
whose silent mutiny as to her shining prison life now reached almost an open revolt. It was
a grateful relief to the Swiss woman, whose agitated heart was softly beating the refrain:
"To-morrow! to-morrow! I shall see him again!" She feared a self-betrayal!

While the governess mused upon the extent of her proposed revelations to the handsome Major,
that rising social star had adroitly exploited his long tete e tete with Captain Hardwicke
to his host, and gracefully magnified the warmth of General Willoughby's personal welcome.

"You see, Johnstone," patiently admitted the man who had dropped into a good thing, "They all
want to delve into the secrets of my mission here. You, of all men," he meaningly said, "cannot
blame me for throwing the dust into their eyes. I detest this intrusion, and so in sheer self-defense
I am going to give a formal dinner to a lot of these bores, and then cut the whole lot when
I've once done the decent thing." Circling and circling, and yet never daring to approach the
subject, old Hugh Johnstone warily returned to the suspended baronetcy affair, at last revealing
his secret burning anxieties. But when Alan Hawke heard the train whistles, announcing the
arrival of his beautiful employer, he fled away from the smoking-room in a mock official unrest.

"I am expecting dispatches from England, and also very important detailed secret instructions.
I've had a warning wire from Calcutta."

He had broken off the se'ance brusquely with a design of his own, and he rejoiced as Hugh Johnstone
brokenly said: "Let me see you very soon again. I must have a plain talk with you." The old
nabob was in a close corner now. There had been a few bitter queries from the half-distracted
girl which showed, even to her stern old father, that his position was becoming untenable.

"Damn it! I must either talk or send her away," he growled when left alone. "I've half a mind
to telegraph Douglas Fraser to come here and convoy this foolish young minx home to Europe.
She may grow to be a silent rebel like her mother." His scowl darkened. "And yet, where to
send her? I ought to go with them. Can I trust the Delandes to find a safe place to keep her
till I come?" He was all unaware that his daughter Nadine was now a woman like her bolder sisters
of society, but it was true. The chrysalis was nearing the butterfly stage of life and beating
the bars with her wings.

The secret exultation of Justine Delande in her shadowy hold on Major Alan Hawke caused her
to furtively lead Nadine Johnstone to the head of the great stairway, when Hawke made his adieux.

"He is a handsome young officer," timidly whispered the girl, shrinking back out of sight.
"What can he have in common with my father? I thought he was some old veteran." And the awakened
heart of Justine Delande bounded in delight. She would have joyed to tell Nadine of her own
romantic budding friendship, but a wholesome fear tied her tongue, and she was only happy when
caressing the diamond bracelet that night, which encircled her arm, while with dry and aching
eyes she waited for the dawn.

While Hugh Johnstone paced the veranda of his lonely marble palace that night, a prey to vague
fears, and unwilling to face the accusing eyes of his daughter, Major Alan Hawke, with a sudden
astonishment, stood mute before the splendid woman who received him in the mysterious bungalow.
There was scant ceremony of greeting between them, for Berthe Louison impatiently grasped his
hands.

"He is here, and the girl, too," she said, with blazing eyes. She stood robed as a queen before
her secret agent. "Where were you? You left me here to wait in a torment of anxiety."

"I have just come from his dinner table," quietly said the startled Major. "They are both here,
and well. I am already intimate at the house, but I have not seen the girl. I feared being
followed or I would have met you at the train." He marveled at her royal beauty. She was conscious
now of the power of wealth, and some hidden fire glowed in her veins. "What can I do for you?
He watches me. I can only come at night."

"Ah!" the lady sternly said, "we must then play at hide and seek!"

Ringing a silver bell twice, Madame Louison sank into a chair. Alan Hawke started up, inquiringly,
as Jules and Marie entered the room from an ante-room, whose door was left ajar.

"Jules! Marie!" calmly said Madame Louison. "This gentleman is my secret business agent. He
will call here in the evenings very often. He has pass keys of his own, and you need not announce
him. He is the only person who has the right to be in my house--at all times." The husband
and wife bowed in silence and, at a gesture from their mistress, departed silently, having
mentally photographed the newcomer.

Gazing in open-eyed astonishment, the surprised Major faltered, "Who are these people? Why
did you do this strange thing?"

"To assure myself of safety," quietly smiled Berthe Louison. "They are my personal servants,
whom I brought on from Calcutta, and I have reason to believe that Jules is both alert and
courageous. He is a veteran of the Tonquin war, and that pretty scar was a present from the
Black Flags. They were selected by one who knows the wiles of my desperate enemy Johnstone."

"Now, Major Hawke, let us to business" calmly continued Berthe, secretly enjoying Alan Hawke's
dismay. "Tell me your whole story. Only the events since your arrival here. The rest counts
for nothing. We are all on the ground here and I propose to act quickly. I learned some matters
in Calcutta which have greatly enlightened me." The facile tongue of the renegade was slow
to do the bidding of his unready brain. "Damme! But she's a cool one!" the ex-officer concluded,
as he caught his breath. But, conscious of her watchful eye, he related all his adventures,
with a judicious reserve as to Justine Delande. The burning eyes of Berthe Louison were steadily
fixed upon the relator's face, and she was coldly noncommittal when Hawke paused for breath
and a mental recapitulation. The Major now gazed upon her immovable visage. There was neither
joy nor sorrow, neither the flush of anger nor the trembling of rage, awakened by the businesslike
presentment of the social facts. "She is a human icicle," he mused. "She has some deadly hold
on him!"

"Can you trust this Ram Lal Singh?" the woman demanded in a business-like tone. Alan Hawke
nodded decisively.

"He knows Hugh Fraser Johnstone well?" queried Berthe.

"They have been companions in the mixed line or Delhi since the mutiny," earnestly replied
Hawke, slowly concluding: "And Ram Lal has been Johnstone's broker in selecting his almost
unequaled Indian collection. Ram is a thief, like all Hindus, but he is square to me. I hold
him in my hand. You can trust to him, but only through me!" Berthe Louison raised her eyes
and then fixed a searching glance upon Alan Hawke, as if she would read his very soul.

"And, can I trust you?" she said, almost solemnly.

"You remember our strange compact, Madame," coldly said Alan Hawke. "Here, face to face with
the enemy, I expect to know what is required of me--and also what my future recompense will be."

"Ah, I forgot," mused the strange lady of the bungalow. "You have the right to teach me a lesson,
in both manners and business. I forgot how sharply I had drawn the line, myself. Well, Sir,
I will trust to you without any assurance on your part." She rang the silver bell at her side,
once, and the silent Jules appeared, as attentive as Rastighello in the boudoir of the Duchess
of Ferrara. "My traveling bag, Jules," said the lady, in a careless tone. There was a silence
punctuated only by Alan Hawke's heavy breathing, until the silent servitor returned, bowing
and departing without a word, as he placed the bag at Madame Louison's side. With a businesslike
air, the lady handed Alan Hawke a sealed letter, addressed simply:

HUGH FRASER JOHNSTONE, ESQ., DELHI.

Near at hand, in the opened bag, the watchful Major saw the revolver and dagger once more which
he had noted, at Lausanne.

"Let Ram Lal deliver that personally to the would-be Baronet, to-morrow morning at eight o'clock.
He is to say nothing. There will be no reply," measuredly remarked the strange woman whose
life as Alixe Delavigne had brought to her the legacy of an undying hatred for the man whom
she was about to face. "This will bring Hugh Johnstone to me at once!"

"That is all?" stammered Alan Hawke, as he received the document, respectfully standing "at
attention."

"No, not quite all!" laughed Berthe Louison. "Pray continue a career of judiciously liberal
social splendor here, an external 'swelling port' just suited to a man whose feet are planted
upon a financial rock. But do not overdo it! It might excite Hugh Johnstone's alarm. Here is
five hundred pounds in notes. There will be no accounts between us."

"And, I am to do nothing else?" cried Hawke, in surprise. "I fear to have you meet this man
alone! He is rich, powerful, and crafty. The nature of your business, I fear, is that of deadly
quarrel. Remember, this man is at bay. He is unscrupulous. I fear for you!"

The renegade spoke only the truth. For dark memories of Hugh Fraser's bitter deeds in days
past now thronged upon his brain.

"Fear not for me." cried Berthe Louison, springing up like a tigress in defense of her cubs.
"Do you know that his life would be the forfeit of a lifted finger? Do you take me for a blind
fool?" she raged. "Do you know the power of gold? Ah, my friend, there are unseen eyes watching
my pathway here, and may God have mercy upon any one who practices against me, in secret! Any
'strange happening' to me would be fearfully avenged! As for this flinty-hearted brute, he
would never even reach that threshold alive, if he dared to threaten! Go! Leave him to me.
Come here to-morrow night. I shall have need of your cool brain and your ready wit! My only
task was to find him and the girl together."

"And if I am questioned about you? If anything occurs?" persisted Alan Hawke.

"Simply ignore my existence; if we meet we are strangers!" gasped Berthe, who had thrown herself
on a divan. "Obey me without questioning my motive! Each night you will receive orders for
the next day, should I need your secret hand! Go now! I am tired! I must be ready to meet this
man!"

Alan Hawke had reached the door, but he turned back. "And as to Ram Lal? What shall I do?"
The woman's eyes flashed fire.

"Leave him also to me! I will handle him! A few rupees--will serve as his bait. Stay! You say
that this Swiss woman, Justine Delande, is sympathetic, and seems to be a worthy person?" She
was scanning his impassive face with steely glances now.

"She is younger than her sister Euphrosyne," gravely said Alan Hawke, "and not without some
personal attractions. Her older sister adores her. Even this old brute, Johnstone, seems to
treat her with great respect and deference."

"There is the only danger to us! Watch that woman! Mingle freely in the Johnstone household,"
said Berthe, wearily, "but never cast your eyes toward Nadine. Never even hint to this Swiss
governess that you have seen her sister. After they return to Europe it is another thing. Silence
and discretion now. Good night. Come to-morrow night at ten o'clock; all will be quiet, and
you can steal away from the Club in safety."

Major Alan Hawke stole away to the hidden entrance like a thief of the night. He started as
he saw the menacing figure of Jules Victor glide swiftly after him to the secret opening in
the wall. The servitor spoke not a single word, but watched the business agent disappear. "I
must watch this damned Frenchman," he mused, feeling for his packet of notes and loosening
his revolver. "He may be set on by this she devil to watch Ram Lal." And then Hawke gayly sought
the jewel merchant, lingering an hour in the very room where he was on the morrow to meet the
heart-awakened Justine. Old Ram Lal grinned as he accepted the letter. He was happy, for he
heard the jingling of golden guineas in the near future. "You have nothing to do with me, Ram
Lal," laughed the Major. "The lady will give you your orders, only you are to tell me all for
both our sakes. I will see you rewarded," and again Ram Lal grinned in his quiet way.

When Alan Hawke's head was resting on his pillow he suddenly became possessed with a strange
new fear. "By God! I believe that she has been here before; she seems to be up to the whole game."

Alan Hawke's steps hardly died away in the hallway before the beautiful Nemesis made a careful
inspection of her splendid reception-room. The splendors of its curtained arches, its fretted
ceiling, and its frescoed walls were idly passed over, for the woman only made an exhaustive
survey of its geometrical arrangement. Marie Victor was in waiting at her side, and the mistress
and maid were soon joined by Jules. Throwing open the door of a little adjoining cabinet, Madame
Louison whispered a few private directions to the ex-Communard. "Do this at once yourself;
none of the blacks are to know. I trust none of them!" imperatively commanded Berthe. "Marie
will receive him. You are to be here at nine o'clock, and be sure to let no one of these yellow
spies observe you. Now, both of you. Here is the rearrangement of the furniture. This will
be your first task in the morning. You can both use the whole household for these changes.
They are to obey you in all. Let all be ready when I have breakfasted. Now, Marie, I will try
and rest. Jules, inspect and examine the house; then you can take your post for the night at
my door. Have you exhausted every possibility of any trickery in the sleeping room?"

"There's but the one door, Madame. Trust to me. I have sounded every inch of the walls, and
even examined the floor." Jules Victor's romantic nature thrilled with the possibilities of
the little life drama to come.

Berthe Louison departed to rest upon her arms the night before the battle. Much marveled the
swarming band of Ram Lal's creatures that no human being was suffered to approach the Lady
of the Bungalow but her two white attendants. Berthe Louison had not reached the idle luxury
of employing a dozen Hindus in infinitesimal labors near her person. For she fathomed easily
Ram Lal's devotion to Major Alan Hawke.

The presence of keen-eyed Marie Victor's brass camp-bed in My Lady's sleeping-room was a source
of wonder to the velvet-eyed spy who was Ram Lal's especial "Bureau of Intelligence." "Strange
ways has this Mem-Sahib," murmured the Hindu when he craved to know if the Daughter of the
Sun and Light of the World desired aught. "I will then have two to watch. The waiting woman
has the eye of a tiger."

A personal verification of the fact that Jules Victor was encamped for the night, en zouave,
on a divan drawn before the only door joining the boudoir and sleeping-room, caused the sly
spy to greatly marvel, for the scarred face of the French social rebel was ominously truculent,
and a pair of Lefacheux revolvers and a heavy knife lay within the ready reach of this strange
"outside guard."

In the dim watches of the first night in Delhi, the same barefooted Hindu spy learned by a
visit of furtive inspection, that a night light steadily burned in the boudoir where Jules
was toujours pret. The sneaking rascal crept away, with a violently beating heart, fearing
even the rustle of his bare feet upon the mosaic floor.

And all this, and much more, did he deliver with abject humility to Ram Lal Singh, when that
worthy appeared the next day to crave his mysterious patron's orders. It seemed a tough nut
to crack, this tripartite household arrangement.

The dawn found Madame Berthe Louison as alertly awake as bird and beast stirring in the ruined
splendors of old Shahjehanabad. Long before the anxious Justine Delande arose to deck herself
furtively for her tryst with Alan Hawke, Berthe Louison knew that all her orders of the night
before were executed.

"You are sure that you can see perfectly, Jules?" said the anxious woman.

"I command the whole side of the room where you will be seated," replied the Frenchman, "and
the ornaments and carved tracery cover the aperture. Marie has tested it and I have also done
the same, reversing our positions. Nothing can be seen."

"Good! Remember! Nine o'clock sees you at your post! You are prepared?" The woman's voice trembled.

"Thoroughly!" cried the alert servitor, "Only give me your signal! I must make no mistake!
There's no time to think in such cases!" He bent his head, while his mistress, in a low voice
gave her last orders. Jules saluted, as if he were the leader of a forlorn hope.

"And now for the first skirmish!" mused Berthe Louison, as she personally examined some matters,
of more material interest to her, in the reception-room.

The rearrangement of the furniture seemed to be satisfactory, and Madame Berthe Louison composedly
busied herself with the arrangement of a writing case, and a few womanly articles upon the
table which she had chosen as her own peculiar fortification. A few moments were wasted upon
trifling with a well-worn envelope, now carefully hidden in her bosom. This maneuver passed
the time needed for a stately carriage to sweep up from the opened grand gate of the bungalow
to the raised veranda steps. "There he is!" she grimly said. "Now, for the first blood!"

