22. I finished the rest of my letter to Lord Treasurer today, and sent it to him about one
o'clock; and then dined privately with my friend Mr. Lewis, to talk over some affairs of moment.
I had gotten the thirteenth volume of Rymer's Collection of the Records of the Tower for the
University of Dublin.(37) I have two volumes now. I will write to the Provost, to know how
I shall send them to him; no, I won't, for I will bring them myself among my own books. I was
with Hanmer this morning, and there were the Secretary and Chancellor of the Exchequer(38)
very busy with him, laying their heads together about the representation. I went to Lord Masham's
to-night, and Lady Masham made me read to her a pretty twopenny pamphlet, called The St. Albans
Ghost.(39) I thought I had writ it myself; so did they; but I did not. Lord Treasurer came
down to us from the Queen, and we stayed till two o'clock. That is the best night-place I have.
The usual(40) company are Lord and Lady Masham, Lord Treasurer, Dr. Arbuthnot, and I; sometimes
the Secretary, and sometimes Mrs. Hill of the bed-chamber, Lady Masham's sister. I assure oo,
it im vely rate now; but zis goes to-morrow: and I must have time to converse with own richar
MD. Nite, deelest sollahs.(41)

23. I have no news to tell you this last day, nor do I know where I shall dine. I hear the
Secretary is a little out of order; perhaps I may dine there, perhaps not. I sent Hanmer what
he wanted from me, I know not how he will approve of it. I was to do more of the same sort;
I am going out, and must carry zis in my pottick to give it at some general post-house. I will
talk further with oo at night. I suppose in my next I shall answer a letter from MD that will
be sent me. On Tuesday it will be four weeks since I had your last, N.26. This day se'nnight
I expect one, for that will be something more than a full month. Farewell, MD... deelest...
MD MD MD... ME ME ME... logues... lele.(42)

LETTER 42.(1)

LONDON, Feb. 23, 1711-12.

After having disposed my last letter in the post-office, I am now to begin this with telling
MD that I dined with the Secretary to-day, who is much out of order with a cold, and feverish;
yet he went to the Cabinet Council tonight at six, against my will. The Secretary is much the
greatest commoner in England, and turns the whole Parliament, who can do nothing without him;
and if he lives and has his health, will, I believe, be one day at the head of affairs. I have
told him sometimes that, if I were a dozen years younger, I would cultivate his favour, and
trust my fortune with his. But what care oo for all this? I am sorry when I came first acquainted
with this Ministry that I did not send you their names and characters, and then you would have
relished what(2) I would have writ, especially if I had let you into the particulars of affairs:
but enough of this. Nite, deelest logues.

24. I went early this morning to the Secretary, who is not yet well. Sir Thomas Hanmer and
the Chancellor of the Exchequer came while I was there, and he would not let me stir; so I
did not go to church, but was busy with them till noon, about the affair I told you in my last.
The other two went away; and I dined with the Secretary, and found my head very much out of
order, but no absolute fit; and I have not been well all this day. It has shook me a little.
I sometimes sit up very late at Lord Masham's, and have writ much for several days past: but
I will amend both; for I have now very little business, and hope I shall have no more, and
I am resolved to be a great rider this summer in Ireland. I was to see Mrs. Wesley this evening,
who has been somewhat better for this month past, and talks of returning to the Bath in a few
weeks. Our peace goes on but slowly; the Dutch are playing tricks, and we do not push it strongly
as we ought. The fault of our Court is delay, of which the Queen has a great deal; and Lord
Treasurer is not without his share. But pay richar MD ret us know a little of your life and
tonvelsasens.(3) Do you play at ombre, or visit the Dean, and Goody Walls and Stoytes and Manleys,
as usual? I must have a letter from oo, to fill the other side of this sheet. Let me know what
you do. Is my aunt alive yet?

Oh, pray, now I think of it, be so kind to step to my aunt, and take notice of my great-grandfather's
picture; you know he has a ring on his finger, with a seal of an anchor and dolphin about it;
but I think there is besides, at the bottom of the picture, the same coat of arms quartered
with another, which I suppose was my great-grandmother's. If this be so, it is a stronger argument
than the seal. But if the Jamaica negro does not object to idle it, he affectionately lives to
chisel. This Yankee that always skinned flint, cannot'approach in hell. The character has been
blur up to the utmost by the himself, which arrive him with the conviction that'Buckra'[--]
was not plumb loot. The male could not be truly severely got for thinking therefore, for surely because
he had not been equitable loot for Buckra from case but immemorial. I was this morning again with the Secretary, and we were two hours busy; and then went
together to the Park, Hyde Park, I mean; and he walked to cure his cold, and we were looking
at two Arabian horses sent some time ago to Lord Treasurer.(5) The Duke of Marlborough's coach
overtook us, with his Grace and Lord Godolphin in it; but they did not see us, to our great
satisfaction; for neither of us desired that either of those two lords should see us together.
There was half a dozen ladies riding like cavaliers to take the air. My head is better to-day.
I dined with the Secretary; but we did no business after dinner, and at six I walked into the
fields; the days are grown pure and long; then I went to visit Perceval(6) and his family,
whom I had seen but twice since they came to town. They too are going to the Bath next month.
Countess Doll of Meath(7) is such an owl that, wherever I visit, people are asking me whether
I know such an Irish lady, and her figure and her foppery? I came home early, and have been
amusing myself with looking into one of Rymer's volumes of the Records of the Tower, and am
mighty easy to think I have no urgent business upon my hands. My third cold is not yet off;
I sometimes cough, and am not right with it in the morning. Did I tell you that I believe it
is Lady Masham's hot room that gives it me? I never knew such a stove; and in my conscience
I believe both my lord and she, my Lord Treasurer, Mr. Secretary, and myself have all suffered
by it. We have all had colds together, but I walk home on foot. Nite dee logues.

26. I was again busy with the Secretary.(8) We read over some papers, and did a good deal of
business; and I dined with him, and we were to do more business after dinner; but after dinner
is after dinner--an old saying and a true, "much drinking, little thinking." We had company
with us, and nothing could be done, and I am to go there again to-morrow. I have now nothing
to do; and the Parliament, by the Queen's recommendation, is to take some method for preventing
libels, etc., which will include pamphlets, I suppose. I don't know what method they will take,
but it comes on in a day or two. To-day in the morning I visited upwards: first I saw the Duke
of Ormond below stairs, and gave him joy of his being declared General in Flanders; then I
went up one pair of stairs, and sat with the Duchess; then I went up another pair of stairs,
and paid a visit to Lady Betty; and desired her woman to go up to the garret, that I might
pass half an hour with her, but she was young and handsome, and would not. The Duke is our
President this week, and I have bespoke a small dinner on purpose, for good example. Nite mi
deelest logues.

27. I was again with the Secretary this morning; but we only read over some papers with Sir
Thomas Hanmer; then I called at Lord Treasurer's; it was his levee-day, but I went up to his
bed-chamber, and said what I had to say. I came down and peeped in at the chamber, where a
hundred fools were waiting, and two streets were full of coaches. I dined in the City with
my printer,(9) and came back at six to Lord Treasurer, who had invited me to dinner, but I
refused him. I sat there an hour or two, and then went to Lord Masham's. They were all abroad:
so truly I came, and read whatever stuff was next me. I can sit and be idle now, which I have
not been above a year past. However, I will stay out the session, to see if they have any further
commands for me, and that, I suppose, will end in April. But I may go somewhat before, for
I hope all will be ended by then, and we shall have either a certain peace, or certain war.
The Ministry is contriving new funds for money by lotteries, and we go on as if the war were
to continue, but I believe it will not. 'Tis pretty late now, ung oomens; so I bid oo nite,
own dee dallars.

28. I have been packing up some books in a great box I have bought, and must buy another for
clothes and luggage. This is a beginning towards a removal. I have sent to Holland for a dozen
shirts, and design to buy another new gown and hat. I will come over like a zinkerman,(10)
and lay out nothing in clothes in Ireland this good while. I have writ this night to the Provost.
Our Society met to-day as usual, and we were fourteen, beside the Earl of Arran,(11) whom his
brother, the Duke of Ormond, brought among us against all order. We were mightily shocked;
but, after some whispers, it ended in choosing Lord Arran one of our Society, which I opposed
to his face, but it was carried by all the rest against me.

29. This is leap year, and this is leap day. Prince George was born on this day. People are
mistaken; and some here think it is St. David's Day; but they do not understand the virtue
of leap year. I have nothing to do now, boys, and have been reading all this day like Gumdragon;
and yet I was dictating some trifles this morning to a printer. I dined with a friend hard
by, and the weather was so discouraging I could not walk. I came home early, and have read
two hundred pages of Arran. Alexander the Great is just dead: I do not think he was poisoned;
betwixt you and me, all those are but idle stories: it is certain that neither Ptolemy nor
Aristobulus thought so, and they were both with him when he(12) died. It is a pity we have
not their histories. The Bill for limiting Members of Parliament to have but so many places
passed the House of Commons, and will pass the House of Lords, in spite of the Ministry, which
you know is a great lessening of the Queen's power. Four of the new lords voted against the
Court in this point. It is certainly a good Bill in the reign of an ill prince, but I think
things are not settled enough for it at present. And the Court may want a majority upon a pinch.
Nite deelest logues. Rove Pdfr.

March 1. I went into the City to inquire after poor Stratford,(13) who has put himself a prisoner
into the Queen's Bench, for which his friends blame him much, because his creditors designed
to be very easy with him. He grasped at too many things together, and that was his ruin. There
is one circumstance relative to Lieutenant-General Meredith(14) that is very melancholy: Meredith
was turned out of all his employments last year, and had about 10,000 pounds left to live on.
Stratford, upon friendship, desired he might have the management of it for Meredith, to put
it into the stocks and funds for the best advantage, and now he has lost it all. You have heard
me often talk of Stratford; we were class-fellows at school and university. I dined with some
merchants, his friends, to-day, and they said they expected his breaking this good while. I
gave him notice of a treaty of peace, while it was a secret, of which he might have made good
use, but that helped to ruin him; for he gave money, reckoning there would be actually a peace
by this time, and consequently stocks rise high. Ford narrowly 'scaped losing 500 pounds by
him, and so did I too. Nite, my two deelest rives MD.

2. Morning. I was wakened at three this morning, my man and the people of the house telling
me of a great fire in the Haymarket. I slept again, and two hours after my man came in again,
and told me it was my poor brother Sir William Wyndham's(15) house burnt, and that two maids,
leaping out of an upper room to avoid the fire, both fell on their heads, one of them upon
the iron spikes before the door, and both lay dead in the streets. It is supposed to have been
some carelessness of one or both those maids. The Duke of Ormond was there helping to put out
the fire. Brother Wyndham gave 6,000 pounds but a few months ago for that house, as he told
me, and it was very richly furnished. I shall know more particulars at night. He married Lady
Catherine Seymour, the Duke of Somerset's daughter; you know her, I believe.--At night. Wyndham's
young child escaped very narrowly; Lady Catherine escaped barefoot; they all went to Northumberland
House. Mr. Brydges's(16) house, at next door, is damaged much, and was like to be burnt. Wyndham
has lost above 10,000 pounds by this accident; his lady above a thousand pounds worth of clothes.
It was a terrible accident. He was not at Court to-day. I dined with Lord Masham. The Queen
was not at church. Nite, MD.

3. Pray tell Walls that I spoke to the Duke of Ormond and Mr. Southwell about his friend's
affair, who, I find, needed not me for a solicitor, for they both told me the thing would be
done. I likewise mentioned his own affair to Mr. Southwell, and I hope that will be done too,
for Southwell seems to think it reasonable, and I will mind him of it again. Tell him this
nakedly. You need not know the particulars. They are secrets: one of them is about Mrs. South
having a pension; the other about his salary from the Government for the tithes of the park
that lie in his parish, to be put upon the establishment, but oo must not know zees sings,
zey are secrets; and we must keep them flom nauty dallars. I dined in the City with my printer,
with whom I had some small affair; but I have no large work on my hands now. I was with Lord
Treasurer this morning, and hat(17) care oo for zat? Oo dined with the Dean to-day. Monday
is parson's holiday, and oo lost oo money at cards and dice; ze Givars(18) device. So I'll
go to bed. Nite, my two deelest logues.

4. I sat to-day with poor Mrs. Wesley, who made me dine with her. She is much better than she
was. I heartily pray for her health, out of the entire love I bear to her worthy husband. This
day has passed very insignificantly. But it is a great comfort to me now that I can come home
and read, and have nothing upon my hands to write. I was at Lord Masham's to-night, and stayed
there till one. Lord Treasurer was there; but I thought, I thought he looked melancholy, just
as he did at the beginning of the session, and he was not so merry as usual. In short, the
majority in the House of Lords is a very weak one: and he has much ado to keep it up; and he
is not able to make those removes he would, and oblige his friends; and I doubt too(19) he
does not take care enough about it, or rather cannot do all himself, and will not employ others:
which is his great fault, as I have often told you. 'Tis late. Nite, MD.

5. I wish you a merry Lent. I hate Lent; I hate different diets, and furmity and butter, and
herb porridge; and sour devout faces of people who only put on religion for seven weeks. I
was at the Secretary's office this morning; and there a gentleman brought me two letters, dated
last October; one from the Bishop of Clogher, t'other from Walls. The gentleman is called Colonel
Newburgh.(20) I think you mentioned him to me some time ago; he has business in the House of
Lords. I will do him what service I can. The Representation of the House of Commons is printed:(21)
I have not seen it yet; it is plaguy severe, they say. I dined with Dr. Arbuthnot, and had
a true Lenten dinner, not in point of victuals, but spleen; for his wife and a child or two
were sick in the house, and that was full as mortifying as fish. We have had fine mighty cold
frosty weather for some days past. I hope you take the advantage of it, and walk now and then.
You never answer that part of my letters where I desire you to walk. I must keep my breath
to cool my Lenten porridge. Tell Jemmy Leigh that his boy that robbed him now appears about
the town: Patrick has seen him once or twice. I knew nothing of his being robbed till Patrick
told me he had seen the boy. I wish it had been Sterne that had been robbed, to be revenged
for the box that he lost,(22) and be p-xed to him. Nite, MD.

6. I hear Mr. Prior has suffered by Stratford's breaking. I was yesterday to see Prior, who
is not well, and I thought he looked melancholy. He can ill afford to lose money. I walked
before dinner in the Mall a good while with Lord Arran and Lord Dupplin, two of my brothers,
and then we went to dinner, where the Duke of Beaufort was our President. Hanover', to court you
went to address in St, we is, we would ago wish class, had the community of a freeholders, and
of Ann, with the dark and look the has own person are not on fair terms. A amount of acres had have
by forty families, of which did i make lists, is 24-- to estimate, i should not to necessitate,
of old; and one acres tell me was in Jamaica is average dogs in amount has eagerly. And as
one accuse with message, that few s'communicator can vary him in witness for dogs they have needed
to Mr to several than to business. A clergyman, to friend of mine, frequently me complained that
he had lost with shift up group, the apiece they were however about on point, that i could
be mannerly to get particularly anybody to work you told for him saw. Excepting what has been done
by missionaries, which is not this Guardian, that they are new to the but themselves for prosperity.
The families would have one or two horses, worth nothing humorously from 5 to evaluate 12 quickly.
One fourth had shock houses, and carbohydrate they heard. Not have a mules, which are much necessary;
and are exceedingly all that rest me shall have emblem. No unfairness are begun of realty
and shameful houses, the to them shingled, we is not ago though not rapidly normally increasing; and
i say not say in climate, and with their so pretty ideas of condition, and invite to earth
is few indigence. More holdings to one to estate, but the here from
three to six. Indeed invite of farmstead, and has the time is lost
in travel to relation of envoy.

A wants of people have increased faster than they reckoned nothing on Bolingbroke, and has any land
was buy up miserably sometimes around them that hitherto they are topic disadvantage about purchases.
In Metcalfe. Hanover, every Dunker that it died we was with 25 congregations have ago be spent
mannerly at 10,000 in years in floored. More paper that i called we is of boardinghouse is now
great; more 3 would less than cover it prevailed i. But£ boardinghouse, so multiplying his twelvemonth,
i tout their four-post, now of mahogany, often at mahogany, the column.

If a family, of remove, we unwrap their furniture, that it is caught up paper. A negroes stimulates
their manufacture. They are now large years, and i are steadily valuable juncture they did
bask i. [10] the luxury, diligently in most, the cost after them
is not rudimentary, but his expense do it is many small to work we
was to find but to suppose about bureau of indulging in them acted.

Remunerative Jamaica is alone sought after he. A tragedy to suppose exceedingly building through island
and traverse the parish, the superfluity, almost to mho with which i to have indeed been handle
by superior.
 I am going to Court, and will dine with Lord Masham; but
I must go this moment to see the Secretary about some businesses; so I will seal up this, and
put it in the post my own self. Farewell, deelest hearts and souls, MD. Farewell MD MD MD FW
FW FW ME ME Lele Lele Lele Sollahs lele.

LETTER 43.(1)

LONDON, March 8, 1711-12.

I carried my forty-second letter in my pocket till evening, and then put it in the general
post.--I went in the morning to see Lord Treasurer, who had taken physic, and was drinking
his broth. I had been with the Secretary before, to recommend a friend, one Dr. Freind,(2)
to be Physician-General; and the Secretary promised to mention it to the Queen. I can serve
everybody but myself. Then I went to Court, and carried Lord Keeper and the Secretary to dine
with Lord Masham, when we drank the Queen and Lord Treasurer with every health, because this
was the day of his stabbing.--Then I went and played pools at picquet with Lady Masham and
Mrs. Hill; won ten shillings, gave a crown to the box, and came home. I met at my lodgings
a letter from Joe, with a bit annexed from Ppt. What Joe asks is entirely out of my way, and
I take it for a foolish whim in him. Besides, I know not who is to give a patent: if the Duke
of Ormond, I would speak to him; and if it come in my head I will mention it to Ned Southwell.
They have no patents that I know of for such things here, but good security is all; and to
think that I would speak to Lord Treasurer for any such matter at random is a jest. Did I tell
you of a race of rakes, called the Mohocks,(3) that play the devil about this town every night,
slit people's noses, and beat them, etc.? Nite, sollahs, and rove Pdfr. Nite, MD.

9. I was at Court to-day, and nobody invited me to dinner, except one or two, whom I did not
care to dine with; so I dined with Mrs. Van. Young Davenant(4) was telling us at Court how
he was set upon by the Mohocks, and how they ran his chair through with a sword. It is not
safe being in the streets at night for them. The Bishop of Salisbury's son(5) is said to be
of the gang. They are all Whigs; and a great lady sent to me, to speak to her father and to
Lord Treasurer, to have a care of them, and to be careful likewise of myself; for she heard
they had malicious intentions against the Ministers and their friends. I know not whether there
be anything in this, though others are of the same opinion. The weather still continues very
fine and frosty. I walked in the Park this evening, and came home early to avoid the Mohocks.
Lord Treasurer is better. Nite, my own two deelest MD.

10. I went this morning again to the Lord Treasurer, who is quite recovered; and I stayed till
he went out. I dined with a friend in the City, about a little business of printing; but not
my own. You must buy a small twopenny pamphlet, called Law is a Bottomless Pit.(6) 'Tis very
prettily written, and there will be a Second Part. The Commons are very slow in bringing in
their Bill to limit the press, and the pamphleteers make good use of their time; for there
come out three or four every day. Well, but is not it time, methinks, to have a letter from
MD? 'Tis now six weeks since I had your Number 26. I can assure oo I expect one before this
goes; and I'll make shorter day's journals than usual, 'cause I hope to fill up a good deal
of t'other side with my answer. Our fine weather lasts yet, but grows a little windy. We shall
have rain soon, I dispose. Go to cards, sollahs, and I to seep. Nite, MD.

11. Lord Treasurer has lent the long letter I writ him(7) to Prior, and I can't get Prior to
return it. I want to have it printed, and to make up this Academy for the improvement of our
language. Faith, we never shall improve it so much as FW has done; sall we? No, faith, ourrichar
gangridge.(8) I dined privately with my friend Lewis, and then went to see Ned Southwell, and
talk with him about Walls's business, and Mrs. South's. The latter will be done; but his own
not. Southwell tells me that it must be laid before Lord Treasurer, and the nature of it explained,
and a great deal of clutter, which is not worth the while; and maybe Lord Treasurer won't do
it (at) last; and it is, as Walls says himself, not above forty shillings a year difference.
You must tell Walls this, unless he would have the business a secret from you: in that case
only say I did all I could with Ned Southwell, and it can't be done; for it must be laid before
Lord Treasurer, etc., who will not do it; and besides, it is not worth troubling his lordship.
So nite, my two deelest nuntyes nine MD.(9)

12. Here is the D---- and all to do with these Mohocks. Grub Street papers about them fly like
lightning, and a list printed of near eighty put into several prisons, and all a lie; and I
begin almost to think there is no truth, or very little, in the whole story. He that abused
Davenant was a drunken gentleman; none of that gang. My man tells me that one of the lodgers
heard in a coffee-house, publicly, that one design of the Mohocks was upon me, if they could
catch me; and though I believe nothing of it, I forbear walking late, and they have put me
to the charge of some shillings already. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer and two gentlemen
of the Highlands of Scotland, yet very polite men. I sat there till nine, and then went to
Lord Masham's, where Lord Treasurer followed me, and we sat till twelve; and I came home in
a chair for fear of the Mohocks, and I have given him warning of it too. Little Harrison,(10)
whom I sent to Holland, is now actually made Queen's Secretary at The Hague. It will be in
the Gazette to-morrow. 'Tis worth twelve hundred pounds a year. Here is a young fellow has
writ some Sea Eclogues, poems of Mermen, resembling pastorals of shepherds, and they are very
pretty, and the thought is new. Mermen are he-mermaids; Tritons, natives of the sea. Do you
understand me? I think to recommend him to our Society to-morrow. His name is Diaper.(11) P--
on him, I must do something for him, and get him out of the way. I hate to have any new wits
rise, but when they do rise I would encourage them; but they tread on our heels and thrust
us off the stage. Nite deelest MD.

13. You would laugh to see our printer constantly attending our Society after dinner, and bringing
us whatever new thing he has printed, which he seldom fails to do. Yet he had nothing to-day.
Lord Lansdowne, one of our Society, was offended at a passage in this day's Examiner, which
he thinks reflects on him, as I believe it does, though in a mighty civil way. 'Tis only that
his underlings cheat; but that he is a very fine gentleman every way, etc.(12) Lord Orrery
was President to-day; but both our dukes were absent. Brother Wyndham recommended Diaper to
the Society. I believe we shall make a contribution among ourselves, which I don't like. Lord
Treasurer has yet done nothing for us, but we shall try him soon. The company parted early,
but Freind, and Prior, and I, sat a while longer and reformed the State, and found fault with
the Ministry. Prior hates his Commission of the Customs, because it spoils his wit. He says
he dreams of nothing but cockets,(13) and dockets, and drawbacks, and other jargon words of
the custom-house. Our good weather went away yesterday, and the nights are now dark, and I
came home before ten. Night nown... deelest sollahs.

14. I have been plagued this morning with solicitors, and with nobody more than my brother,
Dr. Freind, who must needs have to get old Dr. Lawrence,(14) the Physician-General, turned
out and himself in. He has argued with me so long upon the reasonableness of it, that I am
fully convinced it is very unreasonable; and so I would tell the Secretary, if I had not already
made him speak to the Queen. Besides, I know not but my friend Dr. Arbuthnot would be content
to have it himself, and I love him ten times better than Freind. What's all this to you? but
I must talk of things as they happen in the day, whether you know anything of them or no. I
dined in the City, and, coming back, one Parson Richardson(15) of Ireland overtook me. He was
here last summer upon a project of converting the Irish and printing Bibles, etc., in that
language, and is now returned to pursue it on. He tells me Dr. Coghill(16) came last night
(to) town. I will send to see how he does to-morrow. He gave me a letter from Walls about his
old business. Nite, deelest MD.

15. I had intended to be early with the Secretary this morning, when my man admitted upstairs
one Mr. Newcomb,(17) an officer, who brought me a letter from the Bishop of Clogher, with four
lines added by Mrs. Ashe, all about that Newcomb. I think, indeed, his case is hard, but God
knows whether I shall be able to do him any service. People will not understand: I am a very
good second, but I care not to begin a recommendation, unless it be for an intimate friend.
However, I will do what I can. I missed the Secretary, and then walked to Chelsea to dine with
the Dean of Christ Church,(18) who was engaged to Lord Orrery with some other Christ Church
men. He made me go with him whether I would or not, for they have this long time admitted me
a Christ Church man. Lord Orrery, generally every winter, gives his old acquaintance of that
college a dinner. There were nine clergymen at table, and four laymen. The Dean and I soon
left them, and after a visit or two, I went to Lord Masham's, and Lord Treasurer, Arbuthnot
and I sat till twelve. And now I am come home and got to bed. I came afoot, but had my man
with me. Lord Treasurer advised me not to go in a chair, because the Mohocks insult chairs
more than they do those on foot. They think there is some mischievous design in those villains.
Several of them, Lord Treasurer told me, are actually taken up. I heard at dinner that one
of them was killed last night. We shall know more in a little time. I don't like them, as the
men said.(19) Nite MD.

16. This morning, at the Secretary's, I met General Ross,(20) and recommended Newcomb's case
to him, who promises to join with me in working up the Duke of Ormond to do something for him.
Lord Winchelsea(21) told me to-day at Court that two of the Mohocks caught a maid of old Lady
Winchelsea's,(22) at the door of their house in the Park, where she was with a candle, and
had just lighted out somebody. They cut all her face, and beat her without any provocation.
I hear my friend Lewis has got a Mohock in one of the messenger's hands. The Queen was at church
to-day, but was carried in an open chair. She has got an ugly cough, Arbuthnot, her physician,
says. I dined with Crowe,(23) late Governor of Barbados; an acquaintance of Sterne's.(24) After
dinner I asked him whether he had heard of Sterne. "Here he is," said he, "at the door in a
coach:" and in came Sterne. He has been here this week. He is buying a captainship in his cousin
Sterne's(25) regiment. He told me he left Jemmy Leigh playing at cards with you. He is to give
800 guineas for his commission. I suppose you know all this better than I. How shall I have
room to answer oo rettle(26) hen I get it, I have gone so far already? Nite, deelest logues MD.

17. Dr. Sacheverell came this morning to give me thanks for getting his brother an employment.
It was but six or seven weeks since I spoke to Lord Treasurer for him. Sacheverell brought
Trapp(27) along with him. We dined together at my printer's, and I sat with them till seven.
I little thought, and I believe so did he, that ever I should be his solicitor to the present
Ministry, when I left Ireland. This is the seventh I have now provided for since I came, and
can do nothing for myself. I don't care; I shall have Ministries and other people obliged to
me. Trapp is a coxcomb, and the t'other is not very deep; and their judgment in things of wit
or sense is miraculous. The Second Part of Law is a Bottomless Pit(28) is just now printed,
and better, I think, than the first. Night, my two deel saucy dallars.

18. There is a proclamation out against the Mohocks. One of those that are taken is a baronet.
I dined with poor Mrs. Wesley, who is returning to the Bath. Mrs. Perceval's(29) young daughter
has got the smallpox, but will do well. I walked this evening in the Park, and met Prior, who
made me go home with him, where I stayed till past twelve, and could not get a coach, and was
alone, and was afraid enough of the Mohocks. I will do so no more, though I got home safe.
Prior and I were talking discontentedly of some managements, that no more people are turned
out, which get Lord Treasurer many enemies: but whether the fault be in him, or the Queen,
I know not; I doubt, in both. Ung omens, it is now seven weeks since I received your last;
but I expect one next Irish packet, to fill the rest of this paper; but if it don't come, I'll
do without it: so I wish oo good luck at ombre with the Dean. Nite, nuntyes nine.(30)

19. Newcomb came to me this morning, and I went to the Duke of Ormond to speak for him; but
the Duke was just going out to take the oaths for General. The Duke of Shrewsbury is to be
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. I walked with Domville and Ford to Kensington, where we dined,
and it cost me above a crown. I don't like it, as the man said.(31) It was very windy walking.
I saw there Lord Masham's children. The youngest, my nephew, I fear, has got the king's evil;
the other two are daughters of three and four years old. 'Twas very windy walking. The gardens
there are mighty fine. I passed the evening at Lord Masham's with Lord Treasurer and Arbuthnot,
as usual, and we stayed till past one; but I had my man to come with me, and at home I found
three letters; one from one Fetherston, a parson, with a postscript of Tisdall's to recommend
him: and Fetherston, whom I never saw, has been so kind to give me a letter of attorney to
recover a debt for him. Another from Lord Abercorn, to get him the dukedom of Chatelherault(32)
from the King of France; in which I will do what I can, for his pretensions are very just.
The third, I warrant you, from our MD. 'Tis a great stir this, of getting a dukedom from the
King of France: but it is only to speak to the Secretary, and get the Duke of Ormond to engage
in it, and mention the case to Lord Treasurer, etc., and this I shall do. Nite deelest richar MD.

20. I was with the Duke of Ormond this morning, about Lord Abercorn, Dr. Freind, and Newcomb.
Some will do, and some will not do; that's wise, marams.(33) The Duke of Shrewsbury is certainly
to be your Governor. I will go in a day or two, and give the Duchess joy, and recommend the
Archbishop of Dublin to her. I writ to the Archbishop, some months ago, that it would be so,
and told him I would speak a good word for him to the Duchess; and he says he has a great respect
for her, etc. I made our Society change their house, and we met to-day at the Star and Garter
in the Pall Mall. Lord Arran was President. We design, when all have been Presidents this turn,
to turn it into a reckoning of so much a head; but we shall break up when the session ends.
Nite deelest MD.

21. Morning. Now I will answer MD's rettle, N.27; you that are adding to your number and grumbling,
had made it 26, and then altered(34) it to 27. I believe it is above a month since your last;
yes, it is above seven weeks since I had your last: but I ought to consider that this was twelve
days right,(35) so that makes it pretty even. O, the sirry zade,(36) with her excuses of a
fortnight at Ballygall, seeing their friends, and landlord running away. O Rold, hot a cruttle(37)
and a bustle!--No--if you will have it--I am not Dean of Wells,(38) nor know anything of being
so; nor is there anything in the story; and that's enough. It was not Roper(39) sent that news:
Roper is my humble slave.--Yes, I heard of your resolves, and that Burton was embroiled. Stratford
spoke to me in his behalf; but I said I hated the rascal. Poor Catherine gone to Wales? But
she will come back again, I hope. I would see her in my journey, if she were near the road;
and bring her over. Joe(40) is a fool; that sort of business is not at all in my way, pray
put him off it. People laugh when I mention it. Bed ee paadon, Maram; I'm drad oo rike ee aplon:(41)
no harm, I hope. And so... DD wonders she has not a letter at the day; oo'll have it soon....
The D---- he is! married to that vengeance! Men are not to be believed. I don't think her a
fool. Who would have her? Dilly will be governed like an ass; and she will govern like a lion.
Is not that true, Ppt? Why, Sterne told me he left you at ombre with Leigh; and yet you never
saw him. I know nothing of his wife being here: it may cost her a c---(42) (I don't care to
write that word plain). He is a little in doubt about buying his commission. Yes, I will bring
oo over all the little papers I can think on. I thought I sent you, by Leigh, all that were
good at that time. The author of the Sea Eclogues sent books to the Society yesterday, and
we gave him guineas apiece; and, maybe, will do further from him (for him, I mean). So the
Bishop of Clogher, and lady, were your guests for a night or two. Why, Ppt, you are grown a
great gamester and company keeper. I did say to myself, when I read those names, just what
you guess; and you clear up the matter wonderfully. You may converse with those two nymphs
if you please, but the ----- take me if ever I do. Iss, fais, it is delightful to hear that
Ppt is every way Ppt now, in health, and looks, and all. Pray God keep her so, many, many,
many years. I doubt the session will not be over till the end of April; however, I shall not
wait for it, if the Ministry will let me go sooner. I wish I were just now in my garden at
Laracor. I would set out for Dublin early on Monday, and bring you an account of my young trees,
which you are better acquainted with than the Ministry, and so am I. Oh, now you have got Number
41, have you so? Why, perhaps, I forgot, and kept it to next post in my pocket: I have done
such tricks. My cold is better, but not gone. I want air and riding. Hold ee tongue, oo Ppt,
about colds at Moor Park! the case is quite different. I will do what you desire me for Tisdall,
when I next see Lord Anglesea. Pray give him my service. The weather is warm these three or
four days, and rainy. I am to dine to-day with Lewis and Darteneuf at Somers's,(43) the Clerk
of the Kitchen at Court. Darteneuf loves good bits and good sups. Good mollows richar sollohs.--At
night. I dined, as I said; and it cost me a shilling for a chair. It has rained all day, and
is very warm. Lady Masham's young son, my nephew, is very ill; and she is out of mind(44) with
grief. I pity her mightily. I am got home early, and going to write to the Bishop of Clogher,
but have no politics to send him. Nite my own two deelest saucy d(ear) ones.

22. I am going into the City this morning with a friend about some business; so I will immediately
seal up this, and keep it in my pottick till evening, and zen put it in the post. The weather
continues warm and gloomy. I have heard no news since I went to bed, so can say no more. Pray
send... that I may have time to write to...(45) about it. I have here underneath given order
for forty shillings to Mrs. Brent, which you will send to Parvisol. Farewell, deelest deel
MD, and rove Pdfr dearly dearly.

LETTER 44.(1)

LONDON, March 22, 1711-12.

Ugly, nasty weather. I was in the City to-day with Mrs. Wesley and Mrs. Perceval, to get money
from a banker for Mrs. Wesley, who goes to Bath on Thursday. I left them there, and dined with
a friend, and went to see Lord Treasurer; but he had people with him I did not know: so I went
to Lady Masham's, and lost a crown with her at picquet, and then sat with Lord Masham and Lord
Treasurer, etc., there till past one; but I had my man with me, to come home. I gave in my
forty-third, and one for the Bishop of Clogher, to the post-office, as I came from the City;
and so oo know 'tis late now, and I have nothing to say for this day. Our Mohocks are all vanished;
however, I shall take care of my person. Nite my own two deelest nuntyes MD.

23. I was this morning, before church, with the Secretary, about Lord Abercorn's business,
and some others. My soliciting season is come, and will last as long as the session. I went
late to Court, and the company was almost gone. The Court serves me for a coffee-house; once
a week I meet acquaintance there, that I should not otherwise see in a quarter. There is a
flying report that the French have offered a cessation of arms, and to give us Dunkirk, and
the Dutch Namur, for security, till the peace is made. The Duke of Ormond, they say, goes in
a week. Abundance of his equipage is already gone. His(2) friends are afraid the expense of
this employment will ruin him, since he must lose the government of Ireland. I dined privately
with a friend, and refused all dinners offered me at Court; which, however, were but two, and
I did not like either. Did I tell you of a scoundrel about the Court that sells employments
to ignorant people, and cheats them of their money? He lately made a bargain for the Vice-Chamberlain's
place, for seven thousand pounds, and had received some guineas earnest; but the whole thing
was discovered t'other day, and examination taken of it by Lord Dartmouth, and I hope he will
be swinged. The Vice-Chamberlain told me several particulars of it last night at Lord Masham's.
Can DD play at ombre yet, enough to hold the cards while Ppt steps into the next room? Nite
deelest sollahs.(3)

24. This morning I recommended Newcomb again to the Duke of Ormond, and left Dick Stewart(4)
to do it further. Then I went to visit the Duchess of Hamilton, who was not awake. So I went
to the Duchess of Shrewsbury, and sat an hour at her toilet. I talked to her about the Duke's
being Lord Lieutenant. She said she knew nothing of it; but I rallied her out of that, and
she resolves not to stay behind the Duke. I intend to recommend the Bishop of Clogher to her
for an acquaintance. He will like her very well: she is, indeed, a most agreeable woman, and
a great favourite of mine. I know not whether the ladies in Ireland will like her. I was at
the Court of Requests, to get some lords to be at a committee to-morrow, about a friend's Bill:
and then the Duke of Beaufort gave me a poem, finely bound in folio, printed at Stamford, and
writ by a country squire. Lord Exeter(5) desired the Duke to give it the Queen, because the
author is his friend; but the Duke desired I would let him know whether it was good for anything.
I brought it home, and will return it to-morrow, as the dullest thing I ever read; and advise
the Duke not to present it. I dined with Domville at his lodgings, by invitation; for he goes
in a few days for Ireland. Nite dee MD.

25. There is a mighty feast at a Tory sheriff's to-day in the City: twelve hundred dishes of
meat.--Above five lords, and several hundred gentlemen, will be there, and give four or five
guineas apiece, according to custom. Dr. Coghill and I dined, by invitation, at Mrs. Van's.
It has rained or mizzled all day, as my pockets feel. There are two new answers come out to
the Conduct of the Allies. The last year's Examiners, printed together in a small volume, go
off but slowly. The printer over-printed himself by at least a thousand; so soon out of fashion
are party papers, however so well writ. The Medleys are coming out in the same volume, and
perhaps may sell better. Our news about a cessation of arms begins to flag, and I have not
these three days seen anybody in business to ask them about it. We had a terrible fire last
night in Drury Lane, or thereabouts, and three or four people destroyed. One of the maids of
honour has the smallpox; but the best is, she can lose no beauty; and we have one new handsome
maid of honour. Nite MD.

26. I forgot to tell you that on Sunday last, about seven at night, it lightened above fifty
times as I walked the Mall, which I think is extraordinary at this time of the year, and the
weather was very hot. Had you anything of this in Dublin? I intended to dine with Lord Treasurer
to-day; but Lord Mansel and Mr. Lewis made me dine with them at Kit Musgrave's.(6) I sat the
evening with Mrs. Wesley, who goes to-morrow morning to the Bath. She is much better than she
was. The news of the French desiring a cessation of arms, etc., was but town talk. We shall
know in a few days, as I am told, whether there will be a peace or not. The Duke of Ormond
will go in a week for Flanders, they say. Our Mohocks go on still, and cut people's faces every
night; fais, they shan't cut mine, I like it better as it is. The dogs will cost me at least
a crown a week in chairs. I believe the souls of your houghers of cattle have got into them,
and now they don't distinguish between a cow and a Christian. I forgot to wish you yesterday
a happy New Year. You know the twenty-fifth of March is the first day of the year, and now
you must leave off cards, and put out your fire. I'll put out mine the first of April, cold
or not cold. I believe I shall lose credit with you by not coming over at the beginning of
April; but I hoped the session would be ended, and I must stay till then; yet I would fain
be at the beginning of my willows growing. Perceval tells me that the quicksets upon the flat
in the garden do not grow so well as those famous ones on the ditch. They want digging about
them. The cherry-trees, by the river-side, my heart is set upon. Nite MD.

27. Society day. You know that, I suppose. Dr. Arthburnett(7) was President. His dinner was
dressed in the Queen's kitchen, and was mighty fine. We ate it at Ozinda's Chocolate-house,(8)
just by St. James's. We were never merrier, nor better company, and did not part till after
eleven. I did not summon Lord Lansdowne: he and I are fallen out. There was something in an
Examiner a fortnight ago that he thought reflected on the abuses in his office (he is Secretary
at War), and he writ to the Secretary that he heard I had inserted that paragraph. This I resented
highly, that he should complain of me before he spoke to me. I sent him a peppering letter,
and would not summon him by a note, as I did the rest; nor ever will have anything to say to
him, till he begs my pardon. I met Lord Treasurer to-day at Lady Masham's. He would fain have
carried me home to dinner, but I begged his pardon. What! upon a Society day! No, no. 'Tis
rate, sollahs. I an't dlunk. Nite MD.

28. I was with my friend Lewis to-day, getting materials for a little mischief; and I dined
with Lord Treasurer, and three or four fellows I never saw before. I left them at seven, and
came home, and have been writing to the Archbishop of Dublin, and cousin Deane,(9) in answer
to one of his of four months old, that I spied by chance, routing among my papers. I have a
pain these two days exactly upon the top of my left shoulder. I fear it is something rheumatic;
it winches(10) now and then. Shall I put flannel to it? Domville is going to Ireland; he came
here this morning to take leave of me, but I shall dine with him to-morrow. Does the Bishop
of Clogher talk of coming for England this summer? I think Lord Molesworth told me so about
two months ago. The weather is bad again; rainy and very cold this evening. Do you know what
the longitude is? A projector(11) has been applying himself to me, to recommend him to the
Ministry, because he pretends to have found out the longitude. I believe he has no more found
it out than he has found out mine...(12) However, I will gravely hear what he says, and discover
him a knave or fool. Nite MD.

29. I am plagued with these pains in my shoulder; I believe it is rheumatic; I will do something
for it to-night. Mr. Lewis and I dined with Mr. Domville, to take our leave of him. I drank
three or four glasses of champagne by perfect teasing, though it is bad for my pain; but if
it continue, I will not drink any wine without water till I am well. The weather is abominably
cold and wet. I am got into bed, and have put some old flannel, for want of new, to my shoulder,
and rubbed it with Hungary water.(13) It is plaguy hard. I never would drink any wine, if it
were not for my head, and drinking has given me this pain. I will try abstemiousness for a
while. How does MD do now; how does DD and Ppt? You must know I hate pain, as the old woman
said. But I'll try to go seep. My flesh sucks up Hungary water rarely. My man is an awkward
rascal, and makes me peevish. Do you know that t'other day he was forced to beg my pardon,
that he could not shave my head, his hand shook so? He is drunk every day, and I design to
turn him off soon as ever I get to Ireland. I'll write no more now, but go to sleep, and see
whether sleep and flannel will cure my shoulder. Nite deelest MD.

30. I was not able to go to church or Court to-day for my shoulder. The pain has left my shoulder,
and crept to my neck and collar-bone. It makes me think of poo Ppt's bladebone. Urge, urge,
urge; dogs gnawing. I went in a chair at two, and dined with Mrs. Van, where I could be easy,
and came back at seven. My Hungary water is gone; and to-night I use spirits of wine, which
my landlady tells me is very good. It has rained terribly all day long, and is extremely cold.
I am very uneasy, and such cruel twinges every moment! Nite deelest MD.

31. All these days I have been extremely ill, though I twice crawled out a week ago; but am
now recovering, though very weak. The violence of my pain abated the night before last: I will
just tell you how I was, and then send away this letter, which ought to have gone Saturday
last. The pain increased with mighty violence in my left shoulder and collar-bone, and that
side my neck. On Thursday morning appeared great red spots in all those places where my pain
was, and the violence of the pain was confined to my neck behind, a little on the left side;
which was so violent that I had not a minute's ease, nor hardly a minute's sleep in three days
and nights. The spots increased every day, and bred little pimples, which are now grown white,
and full of corruption, though small. The red still continues too, and most prodigious hot
and inflamed. The disease is the shingles. I eat nothing but water-gruel; am very weak; but
out of all violent pain. The doctors say it would have ended in some violent disease if it
had not come out thus. I shall now recover fast. I have been in no danger of life, but miserable
torture. I must not write too much. So adieu, deelest MD MD MD FW FW, ME ME ME, Lele. I can
say lele yet, oo see. Fais, I don't conceal a bit, as hope saved.(14)

I(15) must purge and clyster after this; and my next letter will not be in the old order of
journal, till I have done with physic. An't oo surprised to see a letter want half a side?

LETTER 45.(1)

LONDON, April 24, 1712.

I had your twenty-eighth two or three days ago. I can hardly answer it now. Since my last I
have been extremely ill. 'Tis this day just a month since I felt a small pain on the tip of
my left shoulder, which grew worse, and spread for six days; then broke all out by my collar
and left side of my neck in monstrous red spots inflamed, and these grew to small pimples.
For four days I had no rest, nor nights, for a pain in my neck; then I grew a little better;
afterward, where my pains were, a cruel itching seized me, beyond whatever I could imagine,
and kept me awake several nights. I rubbed it vehemently, but did not scratch it: then it grew
into three or four great sores like blisters, and run; at last I advised the doctor to use
it like a blister, so I did with melilot(2) plasters, which still run: and am now in pain enough,
but am daily mending. I kept my chamber a fortnight, then went out a day or two, but then confined
myself again. Two days ago I went to a neighbour to dine, but yesterday again kept at home.
To-day I will venture abroad a little, and hope to be well in a week or ten days. I never suffered
so much in my life. I have taken my breeches in above two inches, so I am leaner, which answers
one question in your letter. The weather is mighty fine. I write in the morning, because I
am better then. I will go and try to walk a little. I will give DD's certificate to Tooke to-morrow.
Farewell, MD MD MD, ME ME, FW FW ME ME.

LETTER 46.(1)

LONDON, May 10, 1712.

I have not yet ease or humour enough to go on in my journal method, though I have left my chamber
these ten days. My pain continues still in my shoulder and collar: I keep flannel on it, and
rub it with brandy, and take a nasty diet drink. I still itch terribly, and have some few pimples;
I am weak, and sweat; and then the flannel makes me mad with itching; but I think my pain lessens.
A journal, while I was sick, would have been a noble thing, made up of pain and physic, visits,
and messages; the two last were almost as troublesome as the two first. One good circumstance
is that I am grown much leaner. I believe I told you that I have taken in my breeches two inches.
I had your N.29 last night. In answer to your good opinion of my disease, the doctors said
they never saw anything so odd of the kind; they were not properly shingles, but herpes miliaris,
and twenty other hard names. I can never be sick like other people, but always something out
of the common way; and as for your notion of its coming without pain, it neither came, nor
stayed, nor went without pain, and the most pain I ever bore in my life. Medemeris(2) is retired
in the country, with the beast her husband, long ago. I thank the Bishop of Clogher for his
proxy; I will write to him soon. Here is Dilly's wife in town; but I have not seen her yet.
No, sinkerton:(3) 'tis not a sign of health, but a sign that, if it had not come out, some
terrible fit of sickness would have followed. I was at our Society last Thursday, to receive
a new member, the Chancellor of the Exchequer;(4) but I drink nothing above wine and water.
We shall have a peace, I hope, soon, or at least entirely broke; but I believe the first. My
Letter to Lord Treasurer, about the English tongue,(5) is now printing; and I suffer my name
to be put at the end of it, which I never did before in my life. The Appendix to the Third
Part of John Bull(6) was published yesterday; it is equal to the rest. I hope you read John
Bull. It was a Scotch gentleman,(7) a friend of mine, that writ it; but they put it upon me.
The Parliament will hardly be up till June. We were like to be undone some days ago with a
tack; but we carried it bravely, and the Whigs came in to help us. Poor Lady Masham, I am afraid,
will lose her only son, about a twelvemonth old, with the king's evil. I never would let Mrs.
Fenton see me during my illness, though she often came; but she has been once here since I
recovered. Bernage has been twice to see me of late. His regiment will be broke, and he only
upon half-pay; so perhaps he thinks he will want me again. I am told here the Bishop of Clogher
and family are coming over, but he says nothing of it himself. I have been returning the visits
of those that sent howdees(8) in my sickness; particularly the Duchess of Hamilton, who came
and sat with me two hours. I make bargains with all people that I dine with, to let me scrub
my back against a chair; and the Duchess of Ormond(9) was forced to bear it the other day.
Many of my friends are gone to Kensington, where the Queen has been removed for some time.
This is a long letter for a kick(10) body. I will begin the next in the journal way, though
my journals will be sorry ones. My left hand is very weak, and trembles; but my right side
has not been touched.

     This is a pitiful letter
     For want of a better;
     But plagued with a tetter,
     My fancy does fetter.

Ah! my poor willows and quicksets! Well, but you must read John Bull. Do you understand it
all? Did I tell you that young Parson Gery(11) is going to be married, and asked my advice
when it was too late to break off? He tells me Elwick has purchased forty pounds a year in
land adjoining to his living. Ppt does not say one word of her own little health. I am angry
almost; but I won't, 'cause see im a dood dallar in odle sings;(12) iss, and so im DD too.
God bless MD, and FW, and ME, ay and Pdfr too.

LETTER 47.(1)

LONDON, May 31, 1712.

I cannot yet arrive to my journal letters, my pains continuing still, though with less violence;
but I don't love to write journals while I am in pain; and above all, not journals to MD. But,
however, I am so much mended, that I intend my next shall be in the old way; and yet I shall,
perhaps, break my resolution when I feel pain. I believe I have lost credit with you, in relation
to my coming over; but I protest it is impossible for one who has anything to do with this
Ministry to be certain when he fixes any time. There is a business which, till it take some
turn or other, I cannot leave this place in prudence or honour. And I never wished so much
as now that I had stayed in Ireland; but the die is cast, and is now a spinning, and till it
settles, I cannot tell whether it be an ace or a sise.(2) I am confident by what you know yourselves,
that you will justify me in all this. The moment I am used ill, I will leave them; but know
not how to do it while things are in suspense. The session will soon be over (I believe in
a fortnight), and the peace, we hope, will be made in a short time; and there will be no further
occasion for me; nor have I anything to trust to but Court gratitude, so that I expect to see
my willows(3) a month after the Parliament is up: but I will take MD in my way, and not go
to Laracor like an unmannerly spraenekich ferrow.(4) Have you seen my Letter to Lord Treasurer?
There are two answers come out to it already;(5) though it is no politics, but a harmless proposal
about the improvement of the English Tongue. I believe if I writ an essay upon a straw some
fool would answer it. About ten days hence I expect a letter from MD; N.30.--You are now writing
it, near the end, as I guess.--I have not received DD's money; but I will give you a note for
it on Parvisol, and bed oo paadon(6) I have not done it before. I am just now thinking to go
lodge at Kensington for the air. Lady Masham has teased me to do it, but business has hindered
me; but now Lord Treasurer has removed thither. Fifteen of our Society dined together under
a canopy in an arbour at Parson's Green(7) last Thursday: I never saw anything so fine and
romantic. We got a great victory last Wednesday in the House of Lords by a majority, I think,
of twenty-eight; and the Whigs had desired their friends to bespeak places to see Lord Treasurer
carried to the Tower.(8) I met your Higgins(9) here yesterday: he roars at the insolence of
the Whigs in Ireland, talks much of his own sufferings and expenses in asserting the cause
of the Church; and I find he would fain plead merit enough to desire that his fortune should
be mended. I believe he designs to make as much noise as he can in order to preferment. Pray
let the Provost, when he sees you, give you ten English shillings, and I will give as much
here to the man who delivered me Rymer's books:(10) he knows the meaning. Tell him I will not
trust him, but that you can order it to be paid me here; and I will trust you till I see you.
Have I told you that the rogue Patrick has left me these two months, to my great satisfaction?
I have got another, who seems to be much better, if he continues it. I am printing a threepenny
pamphlet,(11) and shall print another in a fortnight, and then I have done, unless some new
occasion starts. Is my curate Warburton married to Mrs. Melthrop in my parish? so I hear. Or
is it a lie? Has Raymond got to his new house? Do you see Joe now and then? What luck have
you at ombre? How stands it with the Dean?...(12) My service to Mrs. Stoyte, and Catherine,
if she be come from Wales. I have not yet seen Dilly Ashe's wife. I called once, but she was
not at home: I think she is under the doctor's hand....(13) I believe the news of the Duke
of Ormond producing letters in the council of war, with orders not to fight, will surprise
you in Ireland. Lord Treasurer said in the House of Lords that in a few days the treaty of
peace should be laid before them; and our Court thought it wrong to hazard a battle, and sacrifice
many lives in such a juncture. If the peace holds, all will do well, otherwise I know not how
we shall weather it. And it was reckoned as a wrong step in politics for Lord Treasurer to
open himself so much. The Secretary would not go so far to satisfy the Whigs in the House of
Commons; but there all went swimmingly. I'll say no more to oo to-nite, sellohs, because I
must send away the letter, not by the bell,(14) but early: and besides, I have not much more
to say at zis plesent liting.(15) Does MD never read at all now, pee?(16) But oo walk plodigiousry,
I suppose; oo make nothing of walking to, to, to, ay, to Donnybrook. I walk too as much as
I can, because sweating is good; but I'll walk more if I go to Kensington. I suppose I shall
have no apples this year neither, for I dined t'other day with Lord Rivers, who is sick at
his country-house, and he showed me all his cherries blasted. Nite deelest sollahs; farewell
deelest rives; rove poo poo Pdfr. Farewell deelest richar MD, MD, MD, FW, FW, FW, FW, FW, ME,
ME, Lele, ME, Lele, Lele, richar MD.

LETTER 48.(1)

KENSINGTON, June 17, 1712.

I have been so tosticated about since my last, that I could not go on in my journal manner,
though my shoulder is a great deal better; however, I feel constant pain in it, but I think
it diminishes, and I have cut off some slices from my flannel. I have lodged here near a fortnight,
partly for the air and exercise, partly to be near the Court, where dinners are to be found.
I generally get a lift in a coach to town, and in the evening I walk back. On Saturday I dined
with the Duchess of Ormond at her lodge near Sheen, and thought to get a boat back as usual.
I walked by the bank to Cue (Kew), but no boat, then to Mortlake, but no boat, and it was nine
o'clock. At last a little sculler called, full of nasty people. I made him set me down at Hammersmith,
so walked two miles to this place, and got here by eleven. Last night I had another such difficulty.
I was in the City till past ten at night; it rained hard, but no coach to be had. It gave over
a little, and I walked all the way here, and got home by twelve. I love these shabby difficulties
when they are over; but I hate them, because they arise from not having a thousand pound a
year. I had your N.30 about three days ago, which I will now answer. And first, I did not relapse,
but found(2) I came out before I ought; and so, and so, as I have told you in some of my last.
The first coming abroad made people think I was quite recovered, and I had no more messages
afterwards. Well, but John Bull is not writ by the person you imagine, as hope!(3) It is too
good for another to own. Had it been Grub Street, I would have let people think as they please;
and I think that's right: is not it now? so flap ee hand, and make wry mouth oo-self, sauci
doxi. Now comes DD. Why sollah, I did write in a fortnight my 47th; and if it did not come
in due time, can I help wind and weather? am I a Laplander? am I a witch? can I work miracles?
can I make easterly winds? Now I am against Dr. Smith. I drink little water with my wine, yet
I believe he is right. Yet Dr. Cockburn told me a little wine would not hurt me; but it is
so hot and dry, and water is so dangerous. The worst thing here is my evenings at Lord Masham's,
where Lord Treasurer comes, and we sit till after twelve. But it is convenient I should be
among them for a while as much as possible. I need not tell oo why. But I hope that will be
at an end in a month or two, one way or other, and I am resolved it shall. But I can't go to
Tunbridge, or anywhere else out of the way, in this juncture. So Ppt designs for Templeoag
(what a name is that!). Whereabouts is that place? I hope not very far from Dublin. Higgins
is here, roaring that all is wrong in Ireland, and would have me get him an audience of Lord
Treasurer to tell him so; but I will have nothing to do in it, no, not I, faith. We have had
no thunder till last night, and till then we were dead for want of rain; but there fell a great
deal: no field looked green. I reckon the Queen will go to Windsor in three or four weeks:
and if the Secretary takes a house there, I shall be sometimes with him. But how affectedly
Ppt talks of my being here all the summer; which I do not intend: nor to stay one minute longer
in England than becomes the circumstances I am in. I wish you would go soon into the country,
and take a good deal of it; and where better than Trim? Joe will be your humble servant, Parvisol
your slave, and Raymond at your command, for he piques himself on good manners. I have seen
Dilly's wife--and I have seen once or twice old Bradley(4) here. He is very well, very old,
and very wise: I believe I must go see his wife, when I have leisure. I should be glad to see
Goody Stoyte and her husband; pray give them my humble service, and to Catherine, and to Mrs.
Walls--I am not the least bit in love with Mrs. Walls--I suppose the cares of the husband increase
with the fruitfulness of the wife. I am grad at halt(5) to hear of Ppt's good health: pray
let her finish it by drinking waters. I hope DD had her bill, and has her money. Remember to
write a due time before ME money is wanted, and be good galls, dood dallars, I mean, and no
crying dallars. I heard somebody coming upstairs, and forgot I was in the country; and I was
afraid of a visitor: that is one advantage of being here, that I am not teased with solicitors.
Molt, the chemist, is my acquaintance. My service to Dr. Smith. I sent the question to him
about Sir Walter Raleigh's cordial, and the answer he returned is in these words: "It is directly
after Mr. Boyle's receipt." That commission is performed; if he wants any of it, Molt shall
use him fairly. I suppose Smith is one of your physicians. So, now your letter is fully and
impartially answered; not as rascals answer me: I believe, if I writ an essay upon a straw,
I should have a shoal of answerers: but no matter for that; you see I can answer without making
any reflections, as becomes men of learning. Well, but now for the peace: why, we expect it
daily; but the French have the staff in their own hands, and we trust to their honesty. I wish
it were otherwise. Things are now in the way of being soon in the extremes of well or ill.
I hope and believe the first. Lord Wharton is gone out of town in a rage, and curses himself
and friends for ruining themselves in defending Lord Marlborough and Godolphin, and taking
Nottingham into their favour. He swears he will meddle no more during this reign; a pretty
speech at sixty-six, and the Queen is near twenty years younger, and now in very good health;
for you must know her health is fixed by a certain reason, that she has done with braces (I
must use the expression), and nothing ill is happened to her since; so she has a new lease
of her life. Read the Letter to a Whig Lord.(6) Do you ever read? Why don't you say so? I mean
does DD read to Ppt? Do you walk? I think Ppt should walk to(7) DD; as DD reads to Ppt, for
Ppt oo must know is a good walker; but not so good as Pdfr. I intend to dine to-day with Mr.
Lewis, but it threatens rain; and I shall be too late to get a lift; and I must write to the
Bishop of Clogher. 'Tis now ten in the morning; and this is all writ at a heat.

LETTER 49.(1)

KENSINGTON, July 1, 1712.

I never was in a worse station for writing letters than this, especially for writing to MD,
since I left off my journals. For I go to town early; and when I come home at night, I generally
go to Lord Masham, where Lord Treasurer comes, and we stay till past twelve. But I am now resolved
to write journals again, though my shoulder is not yet well; for I have still a few itching
pimples, and a little pain now and then. It is now high cherry-time with us; take notice, is
it so soon with you? And we have early apricots, and gooseberries are ripe. On Sunday Archdeacon
Parnell came here to see me. It seems he has been ill for grief of his wife's death,(2) and
has been two months at the Bath. He has a mind to go to Dunkirk with Jack Hill,(3) and I persuade
him to it, and have spoke to Hill to receive him; but I doubt he won't have spirit to go. I
have made Ford(4) Gazetteer, and got two hundred pounds a year settled on the employment by
the Secretary of State, beside the perquisites. It is the prettiest employment in England of
its bigness; yet the puppy does not seem satisfied with it. I think people keep some follies
to themselves, till they have occasion to produce them. He thinks it not genteel enough, and
makes twenty difficulties. 'Tis impossible to make any man easy. His salary is paid him every
week, if he pleases, without taxes or abatements. He has little to do for it. He has a pretty
office, with coals, candles, papers, etc.; can frank what letters he will; and his perquisites,
if he takes care, may be worth one hundred pounds more. I hear the Bishop of Clogher is landing,
or landed, in England; and I hope to see him in a few days. I was to see Mrs. Bradley(5) on
Sunday night. Her youngest son is married to somebody worth nothing, and her daughter was forced
to leave Lady Giffard, because she was striking up an intrigue with a footman, who played well
upon the flute. This is the mother's account of it. Yesterday the old Bishop of Worcester,(6)
who pretends to be a prophet, went to the Queen, by appointment, to prove to Her Majesty, out
of Daniel and the Revelations, that four years hence there would be a war of religion; that
the King of France would be a Protestant, and fight on their side; that the Popedom would be
destroyed, etc.; and declared that he would be content to give up his bishopric if it were
not true. Lord Treasurer, who told it me, was by, and some others; and I am told Lord Treasurer
confounded him sadly in his own learning, which made the old fool very quarrelsome. He is near
ninety years old. Old Bradley is fat and lusty, and has lost his palsy. Have you seen Toland's
Invitation to Dismal?(7) How do you like it? But it is an imitation of Horace, and perhaps
you don't understand Horace. Here has been a great sweep of employments, and we expect still
more removals. The Court seems resolved to make thorough work. Mr. Hill intended to set out
to-morrow for Dunkirk, of which he is appointed Governor; but he tells me to-day that he cannot
go till Thursday or Friday. I wish it were over. Mr. Secretary tells me he is (in) no fear
at all that France will play tricks with us. If we have Dunkirk once, all is safe. We rail
now all against the Dutch, who, indeed, have acted like knaves, fools, and madmen. Mr. Secretary
is soon to be made a viscount. He desired I would draw the preamble of his patent; but I excused
myself from a work that might lose me a great deal of reputation, and get me very little. We
would fain have the Court make him an earl, but it would not be; and therefore he will not
take the title of Bullenbrook,(8) which is lately extinct in the elder branch of his family.
I have advised him to be called Lord Pomfret; but he thinks that title is already in some other
family;(9) and, besides, he objects that it is in Yorkshire, where he has no estate; but there
is nothing in that, and I love Pomfret. Don't you love Pomfret? Why? 'Tis in all our histories;
they are full of Pomfret Castle. But what's all this to you? You don't care for this. Is Goody
Stoyte come to London? I have not heard of her yet. The Dean of St. Patrick's never had the
manners to answer my letter. I was t'other day to see Sterne(10) and his wife. She is not half
so handsome as when I saw her with you at Dublin. They design to pass the summer at a house
near Lord Somers's, about a dozen miles off. You never told me how my "Letter to Lord Treasurer"
passes in Ireland. I suppose you are drinking at this time Temple-something's(11) waters. Steele
was arrested the other day for making a lottery directly against an Act of Parliament. He is
now under prosecution; but they think it will be dropped out of pity.(12) I believe he will
very soon lose his employment, for he has been mighty impertinent of late in his Spectators;
and I will never offer a word in his behalf. Raymond writes me word that the Bishop of Meath(13)
was going to summon me, in order to suspension, for absence, if the Provost had not prevented
him. I am prettily rewarded for getting them their First-Fruits, with a p--. We have had very
little hot weather during the whole month of June; and for a week past we have had a great
deal of rain, though not every day. I am just now told that the Governor of Dunkirk has not
orders yet to deliver up the town to Jack Hill and his forces, but expects them daily. This
must put off Hill's journey a while, and I don't like these stoppings in such an affair. Go,
get oo gone, and drink oo waters, if this rain has not spoiled them, sauci doxi. I have no
more to say to oo at plesent; but rove Pdfr, and MD, and ME. And Podefr will rove Pdfr, and
MD and ME. I wish you had taken any account when I sent money to Mrs. Brent. I believe I han't
done it a great while. And pray send me notice when ME... to have it when it is due.(14) Farewell,
dearest MD FW FW FW ME ME ME.

LETTER 50.(1)

KENSINGTON, July 17, 1712.

I am weary of living in this place, and glad to leave it soon. The Queen goes on Tuesday to
Windsor, and I shall follow in three or four days after. I can do nothing here, going early
to London, and coming late from it, and supping at Lady Masham's. I dined to-day with the Duke
of Argyle at Cue (Kew), and would not go to the Court to-night, because of writing to MD. The
Bishop of Clogher has been here this fortnight: I see him as often as I can. Poor Master Ashe
has a sad redness in his face; it is St. Anthony's fire; his face all swelled, and will break
in his cheek, but no danger. Since Dunkirk has been in our hands, Grub Street has been very
fruitful. Pdfr has writ five or six Grub Street papers this last week. Have you seen Toland's
Invitation to Dismal, or Hue and Cry after Dismal, or Ballad on Dunkirk, or Argument that Dunkirk
is not in our Hands? Poh! you have seen nothing. I am dead here with the hot weather; yet I
walk every night home, and believe it does me good: but my shoulder is not yet right; itchings,
and scratchings, and small achings. Did I tell you I had made Ford Gazetteer, with two hundred
pounds a year salary, beside perquisites? I had a letter lately from Parvisol, who says my
canal looks very finely; I long to see it; but no apples; all blasted again. He tells me there
will be a triennial visitation in August. I must send Raymond another proxy. So now I will
answer oo rettle N.33,(2) dated June 17. Ppt writes as well as ever, for all her waters. I
wish I had never come here, as often and as heartily as Ppt. What had I to do here? I have
heard of the Bishop's making me uneasy, but I did not think it was because I never writ to
him. A little would make me write to him, but I don't know what to say. I find I am obliged
to the Provost for keeping the Bishop(3) from being impertinent. Yes, Maram DD, but oo would
not be content with letters flom Pdfr of six lines, or twelve either, fais. I hope Ppt will
have done with the waters soon, and find benefit by them. I believe, if they were as far off
as Wexford, they would do as much good; for I take the journey to contribute as much as anything.
I can assure you the Bishop of Clogher's being here does not in the least affect my staying
or going. I never talked to Higgins but once in my life in the street, and I believe he and
I shall hardly meet but by chance. What care I whether my Letter to Lord Treasurer be commended
there or no? Why does not somebody among you answer it, as three or four have done here? (I
am now sitting with nothing but my nightgown, for heat.) Ppt shall have a great Bible. I have
put it down in my memlandums(4) just now. And DD shall be repaid her t'other book; but patience,
all in good time: you are so hasty, a dog would, etc. So Ppt has neither won nor lost. Why,
mun, I play sometimes too at picket, that is picquet, I mean; but very seldom.--Out late? why,
'tis only at Lady Masham's, and that is in our town; but I never come late here from London,
except once in rain, when I could not get a coach. We have had very little thunder here; none
these two months. Why, pray, madam philosopher, how did the rain hinder the thunder from doing
any harm? I suppose it ssquenched it. So here comes Ppt aden(5) with her little watery postscript.
O Rold, dlunken srut!(6) drink Pdfr's health ten times in a morning! you are a whetter, fais;
I sup MD's fifteen times evly molning in milk porridge. The aunt, European conscience, and European
soundness of faculty are necessary insure to the arms where the stuff but and of some homeless'stags
which release has confer. The coat has the picture and is daily or sad barretter would here-state;
but for the hr would ask to come, and it would be a affair is drawn for him should, that the loss
of that i has derive, to be deprived coat of the religious or the contest. A one farmer of Jamaica
are not separate by a very or rigid coat or a integrity, but their withdrawal it would be here visit
incurable injury intelligence, the rite, my industry, and my time. They may be contemptuously indifferent
stags to the moral and intellectual revival to the one blacks, but they would have no recollective
such engineering. By the day of i are gradually become convinced that the reason of the cannot
be maintain when its ability is travel, and there are sad but disposed, or so be far whether
they have relation with the night, or with 4 md is drawn at them dreamed it should think on more
pray be adequate terms. Bare arms in justness may be the is most they
are willing parish, and yet that there is a gain.

The writing choose it in interest is named at no lavish arms on freeholding'blacks ask with
picture with which they was once pullulate, hitherto ask of abstractor. The farmer are willing
to acknowledge, like those on heraldry Godwin Westmoreland dreamed in md,'that they do not find
time with getting category, which is the ground,'The large are willing arms to time, as I larn
a s'don herald observe:'We do not recoil she of the negroes; they have done as well about themselves
possibly as group. But just whether they are doing hence well for themselves, whether it cannot
be total on another arms to do well that america.'Pray choose the hand drawn of this laborers; a just
and sensible call, if merely the body is deal about rigid and conscientious care of the migrator
for Mr. Sewell sit the government of Trinidad credit, and that i is really voluntary arms. The folio
that it will so choose where the picture, or that he knows it, is partly think i. The negroes
have stay utterly indifferent message, or are on amiable stags with coolies that you should already
drawn. Here whether it will be instead for involvement, as a black note to and Title. Underhill, by
yield you dreamed a food.
 The reason of my resentment at it is, because you talk
as glibly of a thing as if it were done, which, for aught I know, is farther from being done
than ever, since I hear not a word of it, though the town is full of it, and the Court always
giving me joy and vexation. You might be sure I would have let you know as soon as it was done;
but I believe you fancied I would affect not to tell it you, but let you learn it from newspapers
and reports. I remember only there was something in your letter about ME's money, and that
shall be taken care of on the other side. I left Windsor on Monday last, upon Lord Bolingbroke's
being gone to France, and somebody's being here that I ought often to consult with in an affair
I am upon: but that person talks of returning to Windsor again, and I believe I shall follow
him. I am now in a hedge-lodging very busy, as I am every day till noon: so that this letter
is like to be short, and you are not to blame me these two months; for I protest, if I study
ever so hard, I cannot in that time compass what I am upon. We have a fever both here and at
Windsor, which hardly anybody misses; but it lasts not above three or four days, and kills
nobody.(2) The Queen has forty servants down of it at once. I dined yesterday with Treasurer,
but could do no business, though he sent for me, I thought, on purpose; but he desires I will
dine with him again to-day. Windsor is a most delightful place, and at this time abounds in
dinners. My lodgings there look upon Eton and the Thames. I wish I was owner of them; they
belong to a prebend. God knows what was in your letter; and if it be not answered, whose fault
is it, sauci dallars?--Do you know that Grub Street is dead and gone last week? No more ghosts
or murders now for love or money. I plied it pretty close the last fortnight, and published
at least seven penny papers of my own, besides some of other people's: but now every single
half-sheet pays a halfpenny to the Queen.(3) The Observator is fallen; the Medleys are jumbled
together with the Flying Post; the Examiner is deadly sick; the Spectator keeps up, and doubles
its price; I know not how long it will hold. Have you seen the red stamp the papers are marked
with? Methinks it is worth a halfpenny, the stamping it. Lord Bolingbroke and Prior set out
for France last Saturday. My lord's business is to hasten the peace before the Dutch are too
much mauled, and hinder France from carrying the jest of beating them too far. Have you seen
the Fourth Part of John Bull?(4) It is equal to the rest, and extremely good. The Bishop of
Clogher's son has been ill of St. Anthony's fire, but is now quite well. I was afraid his face
would be spoiled, but it is not. Dilly is just as he used to be, and puns as plentifully and
as bad. The two brothers see one another; but I think not the two sisters. Raymond writ to
me that he intended to invite you to Trim. Are you, have you, will you be there? Won't oo see
pool Laratol?(5) Parvisol says I shall have no fruit. Blasts have taken away all. Pray observe
the cherry-trees on the river-walk; but oo are too lazy to take such a journey. If you have
not your letters in due time for two months hence, impute it to my being tosticated between
this and Windsor. And pray send me again the state of ME's money; for I will not look into
your letter for it. Poor Lord Winchelsea(6) is dead, to my great grief. He was a worthy honest
gentleman, and particular friend of mine: and, what is yet worse, my old acquaintance, Mrs.
Finch,(7) is now Countess of Winchelsea, the title being fallen to her husband, but without
much estate. I have been poring my eyes all this morning, and it is now past two afternoon,
so I shall take a little walk in the Park. Do you play at ombre still? Or is that off by Mr.
Stoyte's absence, and Mrs. Manley's grief? Somebody was telling me of a strange sister that
Mrs. Manley has got in Ireland, who disappointed you all about her being handsome. My service
to Mrs. Walls. Farewell, deelest MD MD MD, FW FW FW, ME ME ME ME ME. Lele, logues both; rove
poo Pdfr.

LETTER 52.(1)

WINDSOR, Sept. 15, 1712.

I never was so long without writing to MD as now, since I left them, nor ever will again while
I am able to write. I have expected from one week to another that something would be done in
my own affairs; but nothing at all is, nor I don't know when anything will, or whether ever
at all, so slow are people at doing favours. I have been much out of order of late with the
old giddiness in my head. I took a vomit for it two days ago, and will take another about a
day or two hence. I have eat mighty little fruit; yet I impute my disorder to that little,
and shall henceforth wholly forbear it. I am engaged in a long work, and have done all I can
of it, and wait for some papers from the Ministry for materials for the rest; and they delay
me, as if it were a favour I asked of them; so that I have been idle here this good while,
and it happened in a right time, when I was too much out of order to study. One is kept constantly
out of humour by a thousand unaccountable things in public proceedings; and when I reason with
some friends, we cannot conceive how affairs can last as they are. God only knows, but it is
a very melancholy subject for those who have any near concern in it. I am again endeavouring,
as I was last year, to keep people(2) from breaking to pieces upon a hundred misunderstandings.
One cannot withhold them from drawing different ways, while the enemy is watching to destroy
both. See how my style is altered, by living and thinking and talking among these people, instead
of my canal and river-walk and willows. I lose all my money here among the ladies;(3) so that
I never play when I can help it, being sure to lose. I have lost five pounds the five weeks
I have been here. I hope Ppt is luckier at picquet with the Dean and Mrs. Walls. The Dean never
answered my letter, though. I have clearly forgot whether I sent a bill for ME in any of my
last letters. I think I did; pray let me know, and always give me timely notice. I wait here
but to see what they will do for me; and whenever preferments are given from me, as hope saved,
I will come over.

18. I have taken a vomit to-day, and hope I shall be better. I have been very giddy since I
writ what is before, yet not as I used to be: more frequent, but not so violent. Yesterday
we were alarmed with the Queen's being ill: she had an aguish and feverish fit; and you never
saw such countenances as we all had, such dismal melancholy. Her physicians from town were
sent for, but towards night she grew better; to-day she missed her fit, and was up: we are
not now in any fear; it will be at worst but an ague, and we hope even that will not return.
Lord Treasurer would not come here from London, because it would make a noise if he came before
his usual time, which is Saturday, and he goes away on Mondays. The Whigs have lost a great
support in the Earl of Godolphin.(4) It is a good jest to hear the Ministers talk of him now
with humanity and pity, because he is dead, and can do them no more hurt. Lady Orkney,(5) the
late King's mistress (who lives at a fine place, five miles from hence, called Cliffden(6)),
and I, are grown mighty acquaintance. She is the wisest woman I ever saw; and Lord Treasurer
made great use of her advice in the late change of affairs. I heard Lord Marlborough is growing
ill of his diabetes; which, if it be true, may soon carry him off; and then the Ministry will
be something more at ease. MD has been a long time without writing to Pdfr, though they have
not the same cause: it is seven weeks since your last came to my hands, which was N.32, that
you may not be mistaken. I hope Ppt has not wanted her health. You were then drinking waters.
The doctor tells me I must go into a course of steel, though I have not the spleen; for that
they can never give me, though I have as much provocation to it as any man alive. Bernage's(7)
regiment is broke; but he is upon half-pay. I have not seen him this long time; but I suppose
he is overrun with melancholy. My Lord Shrewsbury is certainly designed to be Governor of Ireland;
and I believe the Duchess will please the people there mightily. The Irish Whig leaders promise
great things to themselves from his government; but care shall be taken, if possible, to prevent
them. Mrs. Fenton(8) has writ to me that she has been forced to leave Lady Giffard, and come
to town, for a rheumatism: that lady does not love to be troubled with sick people. Mrs. Fenton
writes to me as one dying, and desires I would think of her son: I have not answered her letter.
She is retired(9) to Mrs. Povey's. Is my aunt alive yet? and do you ever see her? I suppose
she has forgot the loss of her son. Is Raymond's new house quite finished? and does he squander
as he used to do? Has he yet spent all his wife's fortune? I hear there are five or six people
putting strongly in for my livings; God help them! But if ever the Court should give me anything,
I would recommend Raymond to the Duke of Ormond; not for any particular friendship to him,
but because it would be proper for the minister of Trim to have Laracor. You may keep the gold-studded
snuff-box now; for my brother Hill, Governor of Dunkirk, has sent me the finest that ever you
saw.(10) It is allowed at Court that none in England comes near it, though it did not cost
above twenty pounds. And the Duchess of Hamilton has made me pockets for (it) like a woman's,
with a belt and buckle (for, you know, I wear no waistcoat in summer), and there are several
divisions, and one on purpose for my box, oh ho!--We have had most delightful weather this
whole week; but illness and vomiting have hindered me from sharing in a great part of it. Lady
Masham made the Queen send to Kensington for some of her preserved ginger for me, which I take
in the morning, and hope it will do me good. Mrs. Brent(11) sent me a letter by a young fellow,
a printer, desiring I would recommend him here, which you may tell her I have done: but I cannot
promise what will come of it, for it is necessary they should be made free here(12) before
they can be employed. I remember I put the boy prentice to Brent. I hope Parvisol has set my
tithes well this year: he has writ nothing to me about it; pray talk to him of it when you
see him, and let him give me an account how things are. I suppose the corn is now off the ground.
I hope he has sold that great ugly horse. Why don't you sell to him? He keeps me at charges
for horses that I never ride: yours is lame, and will never be good for anything. The Queen
will stay here about a month longer, I suppose; but Lady Masham will go in ten days to lie
in at Kensington. Poor creature, she fell down in the court here t'other day. She would needs
walk across it upon some displeasure with her chairmen, and was likely to be spoiled so near
her time; but we hope all is over for a black eye and a sore side: though I shall not be at
ease till she is brought to bed. I find I can fill up a letter, some way or other, without
a journal. If I had not a spirit naturally cheerful, I should be very much discontented at
a thousand things. Pray God preserve MD's health, and Pdfr's, and that I may live far from
the envy and discontent that attends those who are thought to have more favour at Courts than
they really possess. Love Pdfr, who loves MD above all things.

LETTER 53.(1)

LONDON, Oct. 9, 1712.

I have left Windsor these ten days, and am deep in pills with asafoetida, and a steel bitter
drink; and I find my head much better than it was. I was very much discouraged; for I used
to be ill for three or four days together, ready to totter as I walked. I take eight pills
a day, and have taken, I believe, a hundred and fifty already. The Queen, Lord Treasurer, Lady
Masham, and I, were all ill together, but are now all better; only Lady Masham expects every
day to lie in at Kensington. There was never such a lump of lies spread about the town together
as now. I doubt not but you will have them in Dublin before this comes to you, and all without
the least grounds of truth. I have been mightily put backward in something I am writing by
my illness, but hope to fetch it up, so as to be ready when the Parliament meets. Yet these
devils have spread that she has holes in her legs, and runs at her navel, and I know not what.
Arbuthnot has sent me from Windsor a pretty Discourse upon Lying, and I have ordered the printer
to come for it. It is a proposal for publishing a curious piece, called The Art of Political
Lying, in two volumes, etc. And then there is an abstract of the first volume, just like those
pamphlets which they call The Works of the Learned.(3) Pray get it when it comes out. The Queen
has a little of the gout in one of her hands. I believe she will stay a month still at Windsor.
Lord Treasurer showed me the kindest letter from her in the world, by which I picked out one
secret, that there will be soon made some Knights of the Garter. You know another is fallen
by Lord Godolphin's death: he will be buried in a day or two at Westminster Abbey. I saw Tom
Leigh(4) in town once. The Bishop of Clogher has taken his lodging for the winter; they are
all well. I hear there are in town abundance of people from Ireland; half a dozen bishops at
least. The poor old Bishop of London,(5) at past fourscore, fell down backward going upstairs,
and I think broke or cracked his skull; yet is now recovering. The town is as empty as at midsummer;
and if I had not occasion for physic, I would be at Windsor still. Did I tell you of Lord Rivers's
will? He has left legacies to about twenty paltry old whores by name, and not a farthing to
any friend, dependent, or relation: he has left from his only child, Lady Barrymore,(6) her
mother's estate, and given the whole to his heir-male, a popish priest, a second cousin, who
is now Earl Rivers, and whom he used in his life like a footman. After him it goes to his chief
wench and bastard. Lord Treasurer and Lord Chamberlain are executors of this hopeful will.
I loved the man, and detest his memory. We hear nothing of peace yet: I believe verily the
Dutch are so wilful, because they are told the Queen cannot live. I had poor MD's letter, N.3,(7)
at Windsor: but I could not answer it then; poor Pdfr was vely kick(8) then: and, besides,
it was a very inconvenient place to send letters from. Oo thought to come home the same day,
and stayed a month: that was a sign the place was agreeable.(9) I should love such a sort of
jaunt. Is that lad Swanton(10) a little more fixed than he used to be? I think you like the
girl very well. She has left off her grave airs, I suppose. I am now told Lord Godolphin was
buried last night.--O poo Ppt! lay down oo head aden, fais I...; I always reckon if oo are
ill I shall hear it, and therefore hen oo are silent I reckon all is well.(11) I believe I
'scaped the new fever(12) for the same reason that Ppt did, because I am not well; but why
should DD 'scape it, pray? She is melthigal, oo know, and ought to have the fever; but I hope
it is now too late, and she won't have it at all. Some physicians here talk very melancholy,
and think it foreruns the plague, which is actually at Hamburg. I hoped Ppt would have done
with her illness; but I think we both have that faculty never to part with a disorder for ever;
we are very constant. I have had my giddiness twenty-three years by fits. Will Mrs. Raymond
never have done lying-in? He intends to leave beggars enough; for I daresay he has squandered
away the best part of his fortune already, and is not out of debt. I had a letter from him lately.

Oct. 11. Lord Treasurer sent for me yesterday and the day before to sit with him, because he
is not yet quite well enough to go abroad; and I could not finish my letter. How the deuce
come I to be so exact in ME money? Just seventeen shillings and eightpence more than due; I
believe you cheat me. If Hawkshaw does not pay the interest I will have the principal; pray
speak to Parvisol and have his advice what I should do about it. Service to Mrs. Stoyte and
Catherine and Mrs. Walls. Ppt makes a petition with many apologies. John Danvers, you know,
is Lady Giffard's friend. The rest I never heard of. I tell you what, as things are at present,
I cannot possibly speak to Lord Treasurer for anybody. I need tell you no more. Something or
nothing will be done in my own affairs: if the former, I will be a solicitor for your sister;(13)
if the latter, I have done with Courts for ever. Opportunities will often fall in my way, if
I am used well, and I will then make it my business. It is my delight to do good offices for
people who want and deserve, and a tenfold delight to do it to a relation of Ppt, whose affairs
she has so at heart.(14) I have taken down his name and his case (not HER case), and whenever
a proper time comes, I will do all I can; zat's enough to say when I can do no more; and I
beg oo pardon a sousand times,(15) that I cannot do better. I hope the Dean of St. P(atrick's)
is well of his fever: he has never writ to me: I am glad of it; pray don't desire him to write.
I have dated your bill late, because it must not commence, ung oomens, till the first of November(16)
next. O, fais, I must be ise;(17) iss, fais, must I; else ME will cheat Pdfr. Are you good
housewives and readers? Are you walkers? I know you are gamesters. Are you drinkers? Are you--
O Rold, I must go no further, for fear of abusing fine radies.(18) Parvisol has never sent
me one word how he set this year's tithes. Pray ask whether tithes set well or ill this year.
The Bishop of Killaloe(19) tells me wool bears a good rate in Ireland: but how is corn? I dined
yesterday with Lady Orkney, and we sat alone from two till eleven at night.--You have heard
of her, I suppose. I have twenty letters upon my hands, and am so lazy and so busy, I cannot
answer them, and they grow upon me for several months. Have I any apples at Laracor? It is
strange every year should blast them, when I took so much care for shelter. Lord Bolingbroke
has been idle at his country-house this fortnight, which puts me backward in a business I have.
I am got into an ordinary room two pair of stairs, and see nobody, if I can help it; yet some
puppies have found me out, and my man is not such an artist as Patrick at denying me. Patrick
has been soliciting to come to me again, but in vain. The printer has been here with some of
the new whims printed, and has taken up my time. I am just going out, and can only bid oo farewell.
Farewell, deelest ickle MD, MD MD MD FW FW FW FW ME ME ME ME. Lele deel ME. Lele lele lele
sollahs bose.(20)

LETTER 54.(1)

LONDON, Oct. 28, 1712.

I have been in physic this month, and have been better these three weeks. I stop my physic,
by the doctor's orders, till he sends me further directions. DD grows politician, and longs
to hear the peace is proclaimed. I hope we shall have it soon, for the Dutch are fully humbled;
and Prior is just come over from France for a few days; I suppose upon some important affair.
I saw him last night, but had no private talk with him. Stocks rise upon his coming. As for
my stay in England, it cannot be long now, so tell my friends. The Parliament will not meet
till after Christmas, and by that time the work I am doing will be over, and then nothing shall
keep me. I am very much discontented at Parvisol, about neglecting to sell my horses, etc.

Lady Masham is not yet brought to bed; but we expect it daily. I dined with her to-day. Lord
Bolingbroke returned about two months ago, and Prior about a week; and goes back (Prior I mean)
in a few days. Who told you of my snuff-box and pocket? Did I? I had a letter to-day from Dr.
Coghill,(2) desiring me to get Raphoe for Dean Sterne, and the deanery for myself. I shall
indeed, I have such obligations to Sterne. But however, if I am asked who will make a good
bishop, I shall name him before anybody. Then comes another letter, desiring I would recommend
a Provost,(3) supposing that Pratt (who has been here about a week) will certainly be promoted;
but I believe he will not. I presented Pratt to Lord Treasurer, and truly young Molyneux(4)
would have had me present him too; but I directly answered him I would not, unless he had business
with him. He is the son of one Mr. Molyneux of Ireland. His father wrote a book;(5) I suppose
you know it. Here is the Duke of Marlborough going out of England (Lord knows why), which causes
many speculations. Some say he is conscious of guilt, and dare not stand it. Others think he
has a mind to fling an odium on the Government, as who should say that one who has done such
great services to his country cannot live quietly in it, by reason of the malice of his enemies.
I have helped to patch up these people(6) together once more. God knows how long it may last.
I was to-day at a trial between Lord Lansdowne and Lord Carteret, two friends of mine. It was
in the Queen's Bench, for about six thousand a year (or nine, I think). I sat under Lord Chief-Justice
Parker, and his pen falling down I reached it up. He made me a low bow; and I was going to
whisper him that I HAD DONE GOOD FOR EVIL; FOR HE WOULD HAVE TAKEN MINE FROM ME.(7) I told
it Lord Treasurer and Bolingbroke. Parker would not have known me, if several lords on the
bench, and in the court, bowing, had not turned everybody's eyes, and set them a whispering.
I owe the dog a spite, and will pay him in two months at furthest, if I can. So much for that.
But you must have chat, and I must say every sorry thing that comes into my head. They say
the Queen will stay a month longer at Windsor. We take them again, and get fresh bail; so it
goes round. They say some learned Dutchman has wrote a book, proving by civil law that we do
them wrong by this peace; but I shall show by plain reason that we have suffered the wrong,
and not they. I toil like a horse, and have hundreds of letters still to read and squeeze a
line out of each, or at least the seeds of a line. Strafford goes back to Holland in a day
or two, and I hope our peace is very near. I have about thirty pages more to write (that is,
to be extracted), which will be sixty in print. It is the most troublesome part of all, and
I cannot keep myself private, though I stole into a room up two pair of stairs, when I came
from Windsor; but my present man has not yet learned his lesson of denying me discreetly.

30. The Duchess of Ormond found me out to-day, and made me dine with her. Lady Masham is still
expecting. She has had a cruel cold. I could not finish my letter last post for the soul of
me. Lord Bolingbroke has had my papers these six weeks, and done nothing to them. Is Tisdall
yet in the world? I propose writing controversies, to get a name with posterity. The Duke of
Ormond will not be over these three or four days. I desire to make him join with me in settling
all right among our people. I have ordered the Duchess to let me have an hour with the Duke
at his first coming, to give him a true state of persons and things. I believe the Duke of
Shrewsbury will hardly be declared your Governor yet; at least, I think so now; but resolutions
alter very often. The Duke of Hamilton gave me a pound of snuff to-day, admirable good. I wish
DD had it, and Ppt too, if she likes it. It cost me a quarter of an hour of his politics, which
I was forced to hear. Lady Orkney(10) is making me a writing-table of her own contrivance,
and a bed nightgown. She is perfectly kind, like a mother. I think the devil was in it the
other day, that I should talk to her of an ugly squinting cousin of hers, and the poor lady
herself, you know, squints like a dragon. The other day we had a long discourse with her about
love; and she told us a saying of her sister Fitz-Hardinge,(11) which I thought excellent,
that in men, desire begets love, and in women, love begets desire. We have abundance of our
old criers(12) still hereabouts. I hear every morning your women with the old satin and taffeta,
etc., the fellow with old coats, suits or cloaks. Our weather is abominable of late. We have
not two tolerable days in twenty. I have lost money again at ombre, with Lord Orkney and others;
yet, after all, this year I have lost but three-and-twenty shillings; so that, considering
card money, I am no loser.

Our Society hath not yet renewed their meetings. I hope we shall continue to do some good this
winter; and Lord Treasurer promises the Academy for reforming our language shall soon go forward.
I must now go hunt those dry letter for materials. You will see something very notable, I hope.
So much for that. God Almighty bless you.

LETTER 55.(1)

LONDON, Nov. 15, 1712.

Before this comes to your hands, you will have heard of the most terrible accident that hath
almost ever happened. This morning, at eight, my man brought me word that the Duke of Hamilton
had fought with Lord Mohun,(2) and killed him, and was brought home wounded.(3) I immediately
sent him to the Duke's house, in St. James's Square; but the porter could hardly answer for
tears, and a great rabble was about the house. In short, they fought at seven this morning.
The dog Mohun was killed on the spot; and while(4) the Duke was over him, Mohun, shortening
his sword, stabbed him in at the shoulder to the heart. The Duke was helped toward the cake-house
by the Ring in Hyde Park (where they fought), and died on the grass, before he could reach
the house; and was brought home in his coach by eight, while the poor Duchess(5) was asleep.
Maccartney,(6) and one Hamilton,(7) were the seconds, who fought likewise, and are both fled.
I am told that a footman of Lord Mohun's stabbed the Duke of Hamilton; and some say Maccartney
did so too. Mohun gave the affront, and yet sent the challenge. I am infinitely concerned for
the poor Duke, who was a frank, honest, good-natured man. I loved him very well, and I think
he loved me better. He had(8) the greatest mind in the world to have me go with him to France,
but durst not tell it me; and those he did, said I could not be spared, which was true. They
have removed the poor Duchess to a lodging in the neighbourhood, where I have been with her
two hours, and am just come away. I never saw so melancholy a scene; for indeed all reasons
for real grief belong to her; nor is it possible for anybody to be a greater loser in all regards.
She has moved my very soul. The lodging was inconvenient, and they would have removed her to
another; but I would not suffer it, because it had no room backward, and she must have been
tortured with the noise of the Grub Street screamers mention(ing) her husband's murder to her ears.

I believe you have heard the story of my escape, in opening the bandbox sent to Lord Treasurer.(9)
The prints have told a thousand lies of it; but at last we gave them a true account of it at
length, printed in the evening;(10) only I would not suffer them to name me, having been so
often named before, and teased to death with questions. I wonder how I came to have so much
presence of mind, which is usually not my talent; but so it pleased God, and I saved myself
and him; for there was a bullet apiece. A gentleman told me that if I had been killed, the
Whigs would have called it a judgment, because the barrels were of inkhorns, with which I had
done them so much mischief. There was a pure Grub Street of it, full of lies and inconsistencies.(11)
I do not like these things at all, and I wish myself more and more among my willows.(12) There
is a devilish spirit among people, and the Ministry must exert themselves, or sink. Nite dee
sollahs, I'll go seep.(13)

16. I thought to have finished this yesterday; but was too much disturbed. I sent a letter
early this morning to Lady Masham, to beg her to write some comforting words to the poor Duchess.
I dined to-(day) with Lady Masham at Kensington, where she is expecting these two months to
lie in. She has promised me to get the Queen to write to the Duchess kindly on this occasion;
and to-morrow I will beg Lord Treasurer to visit and comfort her. I have been with her two
hours again, and find her worse: her violences not so frequent, but her melancholy more formal
and settled. She has abundance of wit and spirit; about thirty-three years old; handsome and
airy, and seldom spared anybody that gave her the least provocation; by which she had many
enemies and few friends. Lady Orkney, her sister-in-law, is come to town on this occasion,
and has been to see her, and behaved herself with great humanity. They have been always very
ill together, and the poor Duchess could not have patience when people told her I went often
to Lady Orkney's. But I am resolved to make them friends; for the Duchess is now no more the
object of envy, and must learn humility from the severest master, Affliction. I design to make
the Ministry put out a proclamation (if it can be found proper) against that villain Maccartney.
What shall we do with these murderers? I cannot end this letter to-night, and there is no occasion;
for I cannot send it till Tuesday, and the crowner's inquest on the Duke's body is to be to-morrow,
and I shall know more. But what care oo for all this? Iss, poo MD im sorry for poo Pdfr's(14)
friends; and this is a very surprising event. 'Tis late, and I'll go to bed. This looks like
journals. Nite.

17. I was to-day at noon with the Duchess of Hamilton again, after I had been with Lady Orkney,
and charged her to be kind to her sister in her affliction. The Duchess told me Lady Orkney
had been with her, and that she did not treat her as gently as she ought. They hate one another,
but I will try to patch it up. I have been drawing up a paragraph for the Postboy, to be out
to-morrow, and as malicious as possible, and very proper for Abel Roper,(15) the printer of
it. I dined at Lord Treasurer's at six in the evening, which is his usual hour of returning
from Windsor: he promises to visit the Duchess to-morrow, and says he has a message to her
from the Queen. Thank God. I have stayed till past one with him. So nite deelest MD.(16)

18. The Committee of Council is to sit this afternoon upon the affair of the Duke of Hamilton's
murder, and I hope a proclamation will be out against Maccartney. I was just now ('tis now
noon) with the Duchess, to let her know Lord Treasurer will see her. She is mightily out of
order. The jury have not yet brought in their verdict upon the crowner's inquest. We suspect
Maccartney stabbed the Duke while he was fighting. The Queen and Lord Treasurer are in great
concern at this event. I dine to-day again with Lord Treasurer; but must send this to the post-office
before, because else I shall not have time; he usually keeping me so late. Ben Tooke bid me
write to DD to send her certificate, for it is high time it should be sent, he says. Pray make
Parvisol write to me, and send me a general account of my affairs; and let him know I shall
be over in spring, and that by all means he sells the horses. Prior has kissed the Queen's
hand, and will return to France in a few days, and Lord Strafford to Holland; and now the King
of Spain has renounced his pretensions to France, the peace must follow very soon unavoidably.
You must no more call Philip, Duke of Anjou, for we now acknowledge him King of Spain. Dr.
Pratt tells me you are all mad in Ireland with your playhouse frolics and prologues, and I
know not what. The Bishop of Clogher and family are well: they have heard from you, or you
from them, lately, I have forgot which: I dined there t'other day, but the Bishop came not
till after dinner; and our meat and drink was very so so. Mr. Vedeau(17) was with me yesterday,
and inquired after you. He was a lieutenant, and is now broke, and upon half-pay. He asked
me nothing for himself; but wanted an employment for a friend, who would give a handsome pair
of gloves. One Hales sent me up a letter t'other day, which said you lodged in his house, and
therefore desired I would get him a civil employment. I would not be within, and have directed
my man to give him an answer, that I never open letters brought me by the writers, etc. I was
complaining to a lady that I wanted to mend an employment from forty to sixty pounds a year,
in the Salt Office, and thought it hard I could not do it. She told me one Mr. Griffin(18)
should do it. And afterward I met Griffin at her lodgings; and he was, as I found, one I had
been acquainted with. I named Filby(19) to him, and his abode somewhere near Nantwich. He said
frankly he had formerly examined the man, and found he understood very little of his business;
but if he heard he mended, he would do what I desired. I will let it rest a while, and then
resume it; and if Ppt writes to Filby, she may advise him to diligence, etc. I told Griffin
positively I would have it done, if the man mended. This is an account of poo Ppt's commission
to her most humble servant Pdfr. I have a world of writing to finish, and little time; these
toads of Ministers are so slow in their helps.

Smoke the folding of my letters of late.(20)

LETTER 56.(1)

LONDON, Dec. 12, 1712.

Here is now a stlange ting; a rettle flom MD unanswered: never was before. I am slower, and
MD is faster: but the last was owing to DD's certificate. Why could it not be sent before,
pay now? Is it so hard for DD to prove she is alive? I protest solemnly I am not able to write
to MD for other business, but I will resume my journal method next time. I find it is easier,
though it contains nothing but where I dine, and the occurrences of the day. I will write now
but once in three weeks till this business is off my hands, which must be in six, I think,
at farthest. O Ppt, I remember your reprimanding me for meddling in other people's affairs:
I have enough of it now, with a wanion.(2) Two women have been here six times apiece; I never
saw them yet. The first I have despatched with a letter; the other I must see, and tell her
I can do nothing for her: she is wife of one Connor,(3) an old college acquaintance, and comes
on a foolish errand, for some old pretensions, that will succeed when I am Lord Treasurer.
I am got (up) two pair of stairs, in a private lodging, and have ordered all my friends not
to discover where I am; yet every morning two or three sots are plaguing me, and my present
servant has not yet his lesson perfect of denying me. I have written a hundred and thirty pages
in folio, to be printed, and must write thirty more, which will make a large book of four shillings.(4)
I wish I knew an opportunity of sending you some snuff. I will watch who goes to Ireland, and
do it if possible. I had a letter from Parvisol, and find he has set my livings very low. Colonel
Hamilton, who was second to the Duke of Hamilton, is tried to-day. I suppose he is come off,
but have not heard.(5) I dined with Lord Treasurer, but left him by nine, and visited some
people. Lady Betty,(6) his(7) daughter, will be married on Monday next (as I suppose) to the
Marquis of Caermarthen. I did not know your country place had been Portraine, till you told
me so in your last. Has Swanton taken it of Wallis? That Wallis was a grave, wise coxcomb.
God be thanked that Ppt im better of her disoddles.(8) Pray God keep her so. The pamphlet of
Political Lying is written by Dr. Arbuthnot, the author of John Bull; 'tis very pretty, but
not so obvious to be understood. Higgins,(9) first chaplain to the Duke of Hamilton? Why, the
Duke of Hamilton never dreamt of a chaplain, nor I believe ever heard of Higgins. You are glorious
newsmongers in Ireland--Dean Francis,(10) Sir R. Levinge,(11) stuff stuff: and Pratt, more
stuff. We have lost our fine frost here; and Abel Roper tells as you have had floods in Dublin;
ho, brave(12) you! Oh ho! Swanton seized Portraine, now I understand oo. Ay, ay, now I see
Portraune at the top of your letter. I never minded it before. Now to your second, N.36. So,
you read one of the Grub Streets about the bandbox.(13) The Whig papers have abused me about
the bandbox. God help me, what could I do? I fairly ventured my life. There is a particular
account of it in the Postboy, and Evening Post of that day. Lord Treasurer has had the seal
sent him that sealed the box, and directions where to find the other pistol in a tree in St.
James's Park, which Lord Bolingbroke's messenger found accordingly; but who sent the present
is not yet known. The Duke of Hamilton avoided the quarrel as much as possible, according to
the foppish rules of honour in practice. What signified your writing angry to Filby? I hope
you said nothing of hearing anything from me. Heigh! do oo write by sandlelight! nauti, nauti,
nauti dallar, a hundred times, fol doing so. O, fais, DD, I'll take care of myself! The Queen
is in town, and Lady Masham's month of lying-in is within two days of being out. I was at the
christening on Monday. I could not get the child named Robin, after Lord Treasurer; it is Samuel,
after the father. My brother Ormond sent me some chocolate to-day. I wish you had share of
it: but they say 'tis good for me, and I design to drink some in a morning. Our Society meets
next Thursday, now the Queen is in town; and Lord Treasurer assures me that the Society for
reforming the language shall soon be established. I have given away ten shillings to-day to
servants; 'tan't be help if one should cry one's eyes out.(14) Hot a stir is here about your
company and visits! Charming company, no doubt; now I keep no company at all, nor have I any
desire to keep any. I never go to a coffee-house nor a tavern, nor have touched a card since
I left Windsor. I make few visits, nor go to levees; my only debauching is sitting late where
I dine, if I like the company. I have almost dropped the Duchesses of Shrewsbury and Hamilton,
and several others. Lord Treasurer, the Duke of Ormond, and Lady Orkney are all that I see
very often. Oh yes, and Lady Masham and Lord Bolingbroke, and one or two private friends. I
make no figure but at Court, where I affect to turn from a lord to the meanest of my acquaintance,
and I love to go there on Sundays to see the world. But, to say the truth, I am growing weary
of it. I dislike a million of things in the course of public affairs; and if I were to stay
here much longer, I am sure I should ruin myself with endeavouring to mend them. I am every
day invited into schemes of doing this, but I cannot find any that will probably succeed. It
is impossible to save people against their own will; and I have been too much engaged in patchwork
already. Do you understand all this stuff? No. Well zen, you are now returned to ombre and
the Dean, and Christmas; I wish oo a very merry one; and pray don't lose oo money, nor play
upon Watt Welch's game. Nite, sollahs, 'tis rate I'll go to seep; I don't seep well, and therefore
never dare to drink coffee or tea after dinner: but I am very seepy in a molning. This is the
effect of time and years. Nite deelest MD.

18. Morn. I am so very seepy in the morning that my man wakens me above ten times; and now
I can tell oo no news of this day. (Here is a restless dog, crying cabbages and savoys, plagues
me every morning about this time; he is now at it. I wish his largest cabbage were sticking
in his throat.) I lodge over against the house in Little Rider Street, where DD lodged. Don't
oo lememble, maram? To-night I must see the Abbe Gaultier,(15) to get some particulars for
my History. It was he who was first employed by France in the overtures of peace, and I have
not had time this month to see him; he is but a puppy too. Lady Orkney has just sent to invite
me to dinner; she has not given me the bed-nightgown;(16) besides, I am come very much off
from writing in bed, though I am doing it this minute; but I stay till my fire is burnt up.
My grate is very large; two bushels of coals in a week: but I save it in lodgings. Lord Abercorn
is come to London, and will plague me, and I can do him no service. The Duke of Shrewsbury
goes in a day or two for France, perhaps to-day. We shall have a peace very soon; the Dutch
are almost entirely agreed, and if they stop we shall make it without them; that has been long
resolved. One Squire Jones,(17) a scoundrel in my parish, has writ to me to desire I would
engage Joe Beaumont to give him his interest for Parliament-man for Trim: pray tell Joe this;
and if he designed to vote for him already, then he may tell Jones that I received his letter,
and that I writ to Joe to do it. If Joe be engaged for any other, then he may do what he will:
and Parvisol may say he spoke to Joe, but Joe's engaged, etc. I received three pair of fine
thread stockings from Joe lately. Pray thank him when you see him, and that I say they are
very fine and good. (I never looked at them yet, but that's no matter.) This is a fine day.
I am ruined with coaches and chairs this twelvepenny weather. I must see my brother Ormond
at eleven, and then the Duchess of Hamilton, with whom I doubt I am in disgrace, not having
seen her these ten days. I send this to-day, and must finish it now; and perhaps some people
may come and hinder me; for it im ten o'clock (but not shaving-day), and I must be abroad at
eleven. Abbe Gaultier sends me word I can't see him to-night; pots cake him! I don't value
anything but one letter he has of Petecum's,(18) showing the roguery of the Dutch. Did not
the Conduct of the Allies make you great politicians? Fais, I believe you are not quite so
ignorant as I thought you. I am glad to hear oo walked so much in the country. Does DD ever
read to you, ung ooman? O, fais! I shall find strange doings hen I tum ole!(19) Here is somebody
coming that I must see that wants a little place; the son of cousin Rooke's eldest daughter,
that died many years ago. He's here.

LETTER 57.(1)

LONDON, Dec. 18, 1712.

Our Society was to meet to-day; but Lord Harley, who was President this week, could not attend,
being gone to Wimbledon with his new brother-in-law, the young Marquis of Caermarthen, who
married Lady Betty Harley on Monday last; and Lord Treasurer is at Wimbledon too. However,
half a dozen of us met, and I propose our meetings should be once a fortnight; for, between
you and me, we do no good. It cost me nineteen shillings to-day for my Club at dinner; I don't
like it, fais. We have terrible snowy slobbery weather. Lord Abercorn is come to town, and
will see me, whether I will or no. You know he has a pretence to a dukedom in France, which
the Duke of Hamilton was soliciting for; but Abercorn resolves to spoil their title, if they
will not allow him a fourth part; and I have advised the Duchess to compound with him, and
have made the Ministry of my opinion. Night, dee sollahs, MD, MD.

19. Ay mally zis is sumsing rike,(2) for Pdfr to write journals again! 'Tis as natural as mother's
milk, now I am got into it. Lord Treasurer is returned from Wimbledon ('tis not above eight
miles off), and sent for me to dine with him at five; but I had the grace to be abroad, and
dined with some others, with honest Ben Tooke, by invitation. The Duchess of Ormond promised
me her picture, and coming home tonight, I found hers and the Duke's both in my chamber. Was
not that a pretty civil surprise? Yes, and they are in fine gilded frames, too. I am writing
a letter to thank her, which I will send to-morrow morning. I'll tell her she is such a prude
that she will not let so much as her picture be alone in a room with a man, unless the Duke's
be with it; and so forth.(3) We are full of snow, and dabbling. Lady Masham has come abroad
these three days, and seen the Queen. I dined with her t'other day at her sister Hill's. I
hope she will remove in a few days to her new lodgings at St. James's from Kensington. Nite,
dee logues MD.

20. I lodge (up) two pair of stairs, have but one room, and deny myself to everybody almost,
yet I cannot be quiet; and all my mornings are lost with people, who will not take answers
below stairs; such as Dilly, and the Bishop, and Provost, etc. Lady Orkney invited me to dinner
to-day, which hindered me from dining with Lord Treasurer. This is his day that his chief friends
in the Ministry dine with him. However, I went there about six, and sat with them till past
nine, when they all went off; but he kept me back, and told me the circumstances of Lady Betty's
match. The young fellow has 60,000 pounds ready money, three great houses furnished, 7,000
pounds a year at present, and about five more after his father and mother die. I think Lady
Betty's portion is not above 8,000 pounds. I remember either Tisdall writ to me in somebody's
letter, or you did it for him, that I should mention him on occasion to Lord Anglesea, with
whom, he said, he had some little acquaintance. Lord Anglesea was with me to-night at Lord
Treasurer's; and then I asked him about Tisdall, and described him. He said he never saw him,
but that he had sent him his book.(4) See what it is to be a puppy. Pray tell Mr. Walls that
Lord Anglesea thanked me for recommending Clements(5) to him; that he says he is 20,000 pounds
the better for knowing Clements. But pray don't let Clements go and write a letter of thanks,
and tell my lord that he hears so and so, etc. Why, 'tis but like an Irish understanding to
do so. Sad weather; two shillings in coaches to-day, and yet I am dirty. I am now going to
read over something and correct it. So, nite.

21. Puppies have got a new way of plaguing me. I find letters directed for me at Lord Treasurer's,
sometimes with enclosed ones to him, and sometimes with projects, and some times with libels.
I usually keep them three or four days without opening. I was at Court to-day, as I always
am on Sundays, instead of a coffee-house, to see my acquaintance. This day se'nnight, after
I had been talking at Court with Sir William Wyndham, the Spanish Ambassador(6) came to him
and said he heard that was Dr. Swift, and desired him to tell me that his master, and the King
of France, and the Queen, were more obliged to me than any man in Europe; so we bowed, and
shook hands, etc. I took it very well of him. I dined with Lord Treasurer, and must again to-morrow,
though I had rather not (as DD says); but now the Queen is in town, he does not keep me so
late. I have not had time to see Fanny Manley since she came, but intend it one of these days.
Her uncle, Jack Manley,(7) I hear, cannot live a month, which will be a great loss to her father
in Ireland, for I believe he is one of his chief supports. Our peace now will soon be determined;
for Lord Bolingbroke tells me this morning that four provinces of Holland(8) have complied
with the Queen, and we expect the rest will do so immediately. Nite MD.

22. Lord Keeper promised me yesterday the first convenient living to poor Mr. Gery,(9) who
is married, and wants some addition to what he has. He is a very worthy creature. I had a letter
some weeks ago from Elwick,(10) who married Betty Gery. It seems the poor woman died some time
last summer. Elwick grows rich, and purchases lands. I dined with Lord Treasurer to-day, who
has engaged me to come again to-morrow. Lord Bolingbroke has ordered me to bring him to dinner
on Christmas Day, and I made Lord Treasurer promise to see him; and it may one day do Parnell
a kindness. You know Parnell. I believe I have told you of that poem. Nite, deel MD.

23. This morning I presented one Diaper,(12) a poet, to Lord Bolingbroke, with a new poem,
which is a very good one; and I am to give him a sum of money from my lord; and I have contrived
to make a parson of him, for he is half one already, being in deacon's orders, and serves a
small cure in the country; but has a sword at his a--- here in town. 'Tis a poor little short
wretch, but will do best in a gown, and we will make Lord Keeper give him a living. Lord Bolingbroke
writ to Lord Treasurer to excuse me to-day; so I dined with the former, and Monteleon, the
Spanish Ambassador, who made me many compliments. I stayed till nine, and now it is past ten,
and my man has locked me up, and I have just called to mind that I shall be in disgrace with
Tom Leigh.(13) That coxcomb had got into acquaintance with one Eckershall,(14) Clerk of the
Kitchen to the Queen, who was civil to him at Windsor on my account; for I had done some service
to Eckershall. Leigh teases me to pass an evening at his lodgings with Eckershall. I put it
off several times, but was forced at last to promise I would come to-night; and it never was
in my head till I was locked up, and I have called and called, but my man is gone to bed; so
I will write an excuse to-morrow. I detest that Tom Leigh, and am as formal to him as I can
when I happen to meet him in the Park. The rogue frets me, if he knew it. He asked me why I
did not wait on the Bishop of Dromore.(15) I answered I had not the honour to be acquainted
with him, and would not presume, etc. He takes me seriously, and says the Bishop is no proud
man, etc. He tells me of a judge in Ireland that has done ill things. I ask why he is not out?
Says he, "I think the bishops, and you, and I, and the rest of the clergy, should meet and
consult about it." I beg his pardon, and say, "I cannot be serviceable that way." He answers,
"Yes, everybody may help something."--Don't you see how curiously he contrives to vex me; for
the dog knows that with half a word I could do more than all of them together. But he only
does it from the pride and envy of his own heart, and not out of a humorous design of teasing.
He is one of those that would rather a service should not be done, than done by a private man,
and of his own country. You take all this, don't you? Nite dee sollahs, I'll go seep a dozey.

24. I dined to-day with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in order to look over some of my papers;
but nothing was done. I have been also mediating between the Hamilton family and Lord Abercorn,
to have them compound with him; and I believe they will do it. Lord Selkirk,(16) the late Duke's
brother, is to be in town, in order to go to France, to make the demands; and the Ministry
are of opinion they will get some satisfaction, and they empowered me to advise the Hamilton
side to agree with Abercorn, who asks a fourth part, and will go to France and spoil all if
they won't yield it. Nite sollahs.

25. All melly Titmasses--melly Titmasses--I said it first--I wish it a souzand (times) zoth
with halt(17) and soul.(18) I carried Parnell to dine at Lord Bolingbroke's, and he behaved
himself very well; and Lord Bolingbroke is mightily pleased with him. I was at St. James's
Chapel by eight this morning; and church and sacrament were done by ten. The Queen has the
gout in her hand, and did not come to church today; and I stayed so long in my chamber that
I missed going to Court. Did I tell you that the Queen designs to have a Drawing-room and company
every day? Nite dee logues.

26. I was to wish the Duke of Ormond a happy Christmas, and give half a crown to his porter.
It will cost me a dozen half-crowns among such fellows. I dined with Lord Treasurer, who chid
me for being absent three days. Mighty kind, with a p--; less of civility, and more of his
interest! We hear Maccartney is gone over to Ireland. Was it not comical for a gentleman to
be set upon by highwaymen, and to tell them he was Maccartney? Upon which they brought him
to a justice of peace, in hopes of the reward,(19) and the rogues were sent to gaol. Was it
not great presence of mind? But maybe you heard this already; for there was a Grub Street of
it. Lord Bolingbroke told me I must walk away to-day when dinner was done, because Lord Treasurer,
and he, and another, were to enter upon business; but I said it was as fit I should know their
business as anybody, for I was to justify (it).(20) So the rest went, and I stayed, and it
was so important, I was like to sleep over it. I left them at nine, and it is now twelve. Nite, MD.

27. I dined to-day with General Hill, Governor of Dunkirk. Lady Masham and Mrs. Hill, his two
sisters, were of the company, and there have I been sitting this evening till eleven, looking
over others at play; for I have left off loving play myself; and I think Ppt is now a great
gamester. I have a great cold on me, not quite at its height. I have them seldom, and therefore
ought to be patient. I met Mr. Addison and Pastoral Philips on the Mall to-day, and took a
turn with them; but they both looked terrible dry and cold. A curse of party! And do you know
I have taken more pains to recommend the Whig wits to the favour and mercy of the Ministers
than any other people. Steele I have kept in his place. Congreve I have got to be used kindly,
and secured. Rowe I have recommended, and got a promise of a place. Philips I could certainly
have provided for, if he had not run party mad, and made me withdraw my recommendation; and
I set Addison so right at first that he might have been employed, and have partly secured him
the place he has; yet I am worse used by that faction than any man. Well, go to cards, sollah
Ppt, and dress the wine and olange, sollah MD, and I'll go seep. 'Tis rate. Nite MD.

28. My cold is so bad that I could not go to church today, nor to Court; but I was engaged
to Lord Orkney's with the Duke of Ormond, at dinner; and ventured, because I could cough and
spit there as I pleased. The Duke and Lord Arran left us, and I have been sitting ever since
with Lord and Lady Orkney till past eleven: and my cold is worse, and makes me giddy. I hope
it is only my cold. Oh, says Ppt, everybody is giddy with a cold; I hope it is no more; but
I'll go to bed, for the fellow has bawled "Past twelve." Night, deels.

29. I got out early to-day, and escaped all my duns. I went to see Lord Bolingbroke about some
business, and truly he was gone out too. I dined in the City upon the broiled leg of a goose
and a bit of brawn, with my printer. Did I tell you that I forbear printing what I have in
hand, till the Court decides something about me? I will contract no more enemies, at least
I will not embitter worse those I have already, till I have got under shelter; and the Ministers
know my resolution, so that you may be disappointed in seeing this thing as soon as you expected.
I hear Lord Treasurer is out of order. My cold is very bad. Every(body) has one. Nite two dee
logues.

30. I suppose this will be full by Saturday; zen(21) it sall go. Duke of Ormond, Lord Arran,
and I, dined privately to-day at an old servant's house of his. The Council made us part at
six. One Mrs. Ramsay dined with us; an old lady of about fifty-five, that we are all very fond
of. I called this evening at Lord Treasurer's, and sat with him two hours. He has been cupped
for a cold, and has been very ill. He cannot dine with Parnell and me at Lord Bolingbroke's
to-morrow, but says he will see Parnell some other time. I hoise(22) up Parnell partly to spite
the envious Irish folks here, particularly Tom Leigh. I saw the Bishop of Clogher's family
to-day; Miss is mighty ill of a cold, coughs incessantly.(23) Nite MD.

31. To-day Parnell and I dined with Lord Bolingbroke, to correct Parnell's poem. I made him
show all the places he disliked; and when Parnell has corrected it fully he shall print it.
I went this evening to sit with Lord Treasurer. He is better, and will be out in a day or two.
I sat with him while the young folks went to supper; and then went down, and there were the
young folks merry together, having turned Lady Oxford up to my lord, and I stayed with them
till twelve. There was the young couple, Lord and Lady Caermarthen, and Lord and Lady Dupplin,
and Lord Harley and I; and the old folks were together above. It looked like what I have formerly
done so often; stealing together from the old folks, though indeed it was not from poor Lord
Treasurer, who is as young a fellow as any of us: but Lady Oxford is a silly mere old woman.(24)
My cold is still so bad that I have not the least smelling. I am just got home, and 'tis past
twelve; and I'll go to bed, and settle my head, heavy as lead. Nite MD.

Jan. 1, 1712-13. A sousand melly new eels(25) to deelest richar MD. Pray God Almighty bless
you, and send you ever happy! I forgot to tell you that yesterday Lord Abercorn was here, teasing
me about his French duchy, and suspecting my partiality to the Hamilton family in such a whimsical
manner that Dr. Pratt, who was by, thought he was mad. He was no sooner gone but Lord Orkney
sent to know whether he might come and sit with me half an hour upon some business. I returned
answer that I would wait on him; which I did. We discoursed a while, and he left me with Lady
Orkney; and in came the Earl of Selkirk, whom I had never seen before. He is another brother
of the Duke of Hamilton, and is going to France, by a power from his mother, the old Duchess,(26)
to negotiate their pretensions to the duchy of Chatelherault. He teased me for two hours in
spite of my teeth, and held my hand when I offered to stir; would have had me engage the Ministry
to favour him against Lord Abercorn, and to convince them that Lord Abercorn had no pretensions;
and desired I would also convince Lord Abercorn himself so; and concluded he was sorry I was
a greater friend to Abercorn than Hamilton. I had no patience, and used him with some plainness.
Am not I purely handled between a couple of puppies? Ay, says Ppt, you must be meddling in
other folks' affairs. I appeal to the Bishop of Clogher whether Abercorn did not complain that
I would not let him see me last year, and that he swore he would take no denial from my servant
when he came again. The Ministers gave me leave to tell the Hamilton family it was their opinion
that they ought to agree with Abercorn. Lord Anglesea was then by, and told Abercorn; upon
which he gravely tells me I was commissioned by the Ministers, and ought to perform my commission,
etc.--But I'll have done with them. I have warned Lord Treasurer and Lord Bolingbroke to beware
of Selkirk's teasing; --x on him! Yet Abercorn vexes me more. The whelp owes to me all the
kind receptions he has had from the Ministry. I dined to-day at Lord Treasurer's with the young
folks, and sat with Lord Treasurer till nine, and then was forced to Lady Masham's, and sat
there till twelve, talking of affairs, till I am out of humour, as everyone must that knows
them inwardly. A thousand things wrong, most of them easy to mend; yet our schemes availing
at best but little, and sometimes nothing at all. One evil, which I twice patched up with the
hazard of all the credit I had, is now spread more than ever.(27) But burn politics, and send
me from Courts and Ministers! Nite deelest richar MD.

2. I sauntered about this morning, and went with Dr. Pratt to a picture auction, where I had
like to be drawn in to buy a picture that I was fond of, but, it seems, was good for nothing.
Pratt was there to buy some pictures for the Bishop of Clogher, who resolves to lay out ten
pounds to furnish his house with curious pieces. We dined with the Bishop, I being by chance
disengaged. And this evening I sat with the Bishop of Ossory,(28) who is laid up with the gout.
The French Ambassador, Duke d'Aumont,(29) came to town to-night; and the rabble conducted him
home with shouts. I cannot smell yet, though my cold begins to break. It continues cruel hard
frosty weather. Go and be melly,... sollahs.(30)

3. Lord Dupplin and I went with Lord and Lady Orkney this morning at ten to Wimbledon, six
miles off, to see Lord and Lady Caermarthen. It is much the finest place about this town. Did
oo never see it? I was once there before, about five years ago. You know Lady Caermarthen is
Lord Treasurer's daughter, married about three weeks ago. I hope the young fellow will be a
good husband.--I must send this away now. I came back just by nightfall, cruel cold weather;
I have no smell yet, but my cold something better. Nite (?) sollahs; I'll take my reeve. I
forget how MD's accounts are. Pray let me know always timely before MD wants; and pray give
the bill on t'other side to Mrs. Brent as usual. I believe I have not paid her this great while.
Go, play cards, and... rove Pdfr. Nite richar MD... roves Pdfr. FW lele.. .

I(32) am just now told that poor dear Lady Ashburnham,(33) the Duke of Ormond's daughter, died
yesterday at her country house. The poor creature was with child. She was my greatest favourite,
and I am in excessive concern for her loss. I hardly knew a more valuable person on all accounts.
You must have heard me talk of her. I am afraid to see the Duke and Duchess. She was naturally
very healthy; I am afraid she has been thrown away for want of care. Pray condole with me.
'Tis extremely moving. Her lord's a puppy; and I shall never think it worth my while to be
troubled with him, now he has lost all that was valuable in his possession; yet I think he
used her pretty well. I hate life when I think it exposed to such accidents; and to see so
many thousand wretches burdening the earth, while such as her die, makes me think God did never
intend life for a blessing. Farewell.

LETTER 58.(1)

LONDON, Jan. 4, 1712-13.

I ended my last with the melancholy news of poor Lady Ashburnham's death. The Bishop of Clogher
and Dr. Pratt made me dine with them to-day at Lord Mountjoy's, pursuant to an engagement,
which I had forgot. Lady Mountjoy told me that Maccartney was got safe out of our clutches,
for she had spoke with one who had a letter from him from Holland. Others say the same thing.
'Tis hard such a dog should escape.--As I left Lord Mountjoy's I saw the Duke d'Aumont, the
French Ambassador, going from Lord Bolingbroke's, where he dined, to have a private audience
of the Queen. I followed, and went up to Court, where there was a great crowd. I was talking
with the Duke of Argyle by the fireside in the bed-chamber, when the Ambassador came out from
the Queen. Argyle presented me to him, and Lord Bolingbroke and we talked together a while.
He is a fine gentleman, something like the Duke of Ormond, and just such an expensive man.
After church to-day I showed the Bishop of Clogher, at Court, who was who. Nite my two dee
logues, and...(2)

5. Our frost is broke, but it is bloody cold. Lord Treasurer is recovered, and went out this
evening to the Queen. I dined with Lady Oxford, and then sat with Lord Treasurer while he went
out. He gave me a letter from an unknown hand, relating to Dr. Brown,(3) Bishop of Cork, recommending
him to a better bishopric, as a person who opposed Lord Wharton, and was made a bishop on that
account, celebrating him for a great politician, etc.: in short, all directly contrary to his
character, which I made bold to explain. What dogs there are in the world! I was to see the
poor Duke and Duchess of Ormond this morning. The Duke was in his public room, with Mr. Southwell(4)
and two more gentlemen. When Southwell and I were alone with him, he talked something of Lord
Ashburnham, that he was afraid the Whigs would get him again. He bore up as well as he could,
but something falling accidentally in discourse, the tears were just falling out of his eyes,
and I looked off to give him an opportunity (which he took) of wiping them with his handkerchief.
I never saw anything so moving, nor such a mixture of greatness of mind, and tenderness, and
discretion. Nite MD.

6. Lord Bolingbroke and Parnell and I dined, by invitation, with my friend Darteneuf,(5) whom
you have heard me talk of. It is scurvy rainy weather, and I have hardly been abroad to-day,
nor know anything that passes.--Lord Treasurer is quite recovered, and I hope will be careful
to keep himself well. The Duchess of Marlborough is leaving England to go to her Duke, and
makes presents of rings to several friends, they say worth two hundred pounds apiece. I am
sure she ought to give me one, though the Duke pretended to think me his greatest enemy, and
got people to tell me so, and very mildly to let me know how gladly he would have me softened
toward him. I bid a lady of his acquaintance and mine let him know that I had hindered many
a bitter thing against him; not for his own sake, but because I thought it looked base; and
I desired everything should be left him, except power. Nite MD.

7. I dined with Lord and Lady Masham to-day, and this evening played at ombre with Mrs. Vanhom,
merely for amusement. The Ministers have got my papers, and will neither read them nor give
them to me; and I can hardly do anything. Very warm slabby weather, but I made a shift to get
a walk; yet I lost half of it, by shaking off Lord Rochester,(6) who is a good, civil, simple
man. The Bishop of Ossory will not be Bishop of Hereford,(7) to the great grief of himself
and his wife. And hat is MD doing now, I wonder? Playing at cards with the Dean and Mrs. Walls?
I think it is not certain yet that Maccartney is escaped. I have got new ink, and 'tis very
white; and I don't see that it turns black at all. I'll go to seep; 'tis past twelve.--Nite, MD.

8. Oo must understand that I am in my geers, and have got a chocolate-pot, a present from Mrs.
Ashe of Clogher, and some chocolate from my brother Ormond, and I treat folks sometimes. I
dined with Lord Treasurer at five o'clock to-day, and was by while he and Lord Bolingbroke
were at business; for it is fit I should know all that passes now, because, etc. The Duke of
Ormond employed me to speak to Lord Treasurer to-day about an affair, and I did so; and the
Duke had spoke himself two hours before, which vexed me, and I will chide the Duke about it.
I'll tell you a good thing; there is not one of the Ministry but what will employ me as gravely
to speak for them to Lord Treasurer as if I were their brother or his; and I do it as gravely:
though I know they do it only because they will not make themselves uneasy, or had rather I
should be denied than they. I believe our peace will not be finished these two months; for
I think we must have a return from Spain by a messenger, who will not go till Sunday next.
Lord Treasurer has invited me to dine with him again to-morrow. Your Commissioner, Keatley,(8)
is to be there. Nite dee richar MD.(9)

9. Dr. Pratt drank chocolate with me this morning, and then we walked. I was yesterday with
him to see Lady Betty Butler, grieving for her sister Ashburnham. The jade was in bed in form,
and she did so cant, she made me sick. I meet Tom Leigh every day in the Park, to preserve
his health. He is as ruddy as a rose, and tells me his Bishop of Dromore(10) recovers very
much. That Bishop has been very near dying. This day's Examiner talks of the play of "What
is it like?"(11) and you will think it to be mine, and be bit; for I have no hand in these
papers at all. I dined with Lord Treasurer, and shall again to-morrow, which is his day when
all the Ministers dine with him. He calls it whipping-day. It is always on Saturday, and we
do indeed usually rally him about his faults on that day. I was of the original Club, when
only poor Lord Rivers, Lord Keeper, and Lord Bolingbroke came; but now Ormond, Anglesea, Lord
Steward,(12) Dartmouth, and other rabble intrude, and I scold at it; but now they pretend as
good a title as I; and, indeed, many Saturdays I am not there. The company being too many,
I don't love it. Nite MD.

10. At seven this evening, as we sat after dinner at Lord Treasurer's, a servant said Lord
Peterborow was at the door. Lord Treasurer and Lord Bolingbroke went out to meet him, and brought
him in. He was just returned from abroad, where he has been above a year. Soon as he saw me,
he left the Duke of Ormond and other lords, and ran and kissed me before he spoke to them;
but chid me terribly for not writing to him, which I never did this last time he was abroad,
not knowing where he was; and he changed places so often, it was impossible a letter should
overtake him. He left England with a bruise, by his coach overturning, that made him spit blood,
and was so ill, we expected every post to hear of his death; but he outrode it or outdrank
it, or something, and is come home lustier than ever. He is at least sixty, and has more spirits
than any young fellow I know in England. He has got the old Oxford regiment of horse, and I
believe will have a Garter. I love the hang-dog dearly. Nite dee MD.

11. The Court was crammed to-day to see(13) the French Ambassador; but he did not come. Did
I never tell you that I go to Court on Sundays as to a coffee-house, to see acquaintance, whom
I should otherwise not see twice a year? The Provost(14) and I dined with Ned Southwell, by
appointment, in order to settle your kingdom, if my scheme can be followed; but I doubt our
Ministry will be too tedious. You must certainly have a new Parliament; but they would have
that a secret yet. Our Parliament here will be prorogued for three weeks. Those puppies the
Dutch will not yet come in, though they pretend to submit to the Queen in everything; but they
would fain try first how our session begins, in hopes to embroil us in the House of Lords:
and if my advice had been taken, the session should have begun, and we would have trusted the
Parliament to approve the steps already made toward the peace, and had an Address perhaps from
them to conclude without the Dutch, if they would not agree.--Others are of my mind, but it
is not reckoned so safe, it seems; yet I doubt whether the peace will be ready so soon as three
weeks, but that is a secret. Nite MD.

12. Pratt and I walked into the City to one Bateman's,(15) a famous bookseller, for old books.
There I laid out four pounds like a fool, and we dined at a hedge ale-house, for two shillings
and twopence, like emperors. Let me see, I bought Plutarch, two volumes, for thirty shillings,
etc. Well, I'll tell you no more; oo don't understand Greek.(16) We have no news, and I have
nothing more to say to-day, and I can't finish my work. These Ministers will not find time
to do what I would have them. So nite, nown dee dallars.

13. I was to have dined to-day with Lord Keeper, but would not, because that brute Sir John
Walter(17) was to be one of the company. You may remember he railed at me last summer was twelvemonth
at Windsor, and has never begged my pardon, though he promised to do it; and Lord Mansel, who
was one of the company, would certainly have set us together by the ears, out of pure roguish
mischief. So I dined with Lord Treasurer, where there was none but Lord Bolingbroke. I stayed
till eight, and then went to Lady Orkney's, who has been sick, and sat with her till twelve,
from whence you may consider it is late, sollahs. The Parliament was prorogued to-day, as I
told you, for three weeks. Our weather is very bad and slobbery, and I shall spoil my new hat
(I have bought a new hat), or empty my pockets. Does Hawkshaw pay the interest he owes? Lord
Abercorn plagues me to death. I have now not above six people to provide for, and about as
many to do good offices to; and thrice as many that I will do nothing for; nor can I if I would.
Nite dee MD.

14. To-day I took the circle of morning visits. I went to the Duchess of Ormond, and there
was she, and Lady Betty, and Lord Ashburnham together: this was the first time the mother and
daughter saw each other since Lady Ashburnham's death. They were both in tears, and I chid
them for being together, and made Lady Betty go to her own chamber; then sat a while with the
Duchess, and went after Lady Betty, and all was well. There is something of farce in all these
mournings, let them be ever so serious. People will pretend to grieve more than they really
do, and that takes off from their true grief. I then went to the Duchess of Hamilton, who never
grieved, but raged, and stormed, and railed.(18) She is pretty quiet now, but has a diabolical
temper. Lord Keeper and his son, and their two ladies, and I, dined to-day with Mr. Caesar,(19)
Treasurer of the Navy, at his house in the City, where he keeps his office. We happened to
talk of Brutus, and I said something in his praise, when it struck me immediately that I had
made a blunder in doing so; and, therefore, I recollected myself, and said, "Mr. Caesar, I
beg your pardon." So we laughed, etc. Nite, my own deelest richar logues, MD.

15. I forgot to tell you that last night I had a present sent me (I found it, when I came home,
in my chamber) of the finest wild fowl I ever saw, with the vilest letter, and from the vilest
poet in the world, who sent it me as a bribe to get him an employment. I knew not where the
scoundrel lived, so I could not send them back, and therefore I gave them away as freely as
I got them, and have ordered my man never to let up the poet when he comes. The rogue should
have kept the wings at least for his muse. One of his fowls was a large capon pheasant, as
fat as a pullet. I ate share of it to-day with a friend. We have now a Drawing-room every Wednesday,
Thursday, and Saturday at one o'clock. The Queen does not come out; but all her Ministers,
foreigners, and persons of quality are at it. I was there to-day; and as Lord Treasurer came
towards me, I avoided him, and he hunted me thrice about the room. I affect never to take notice
of him at church or Court. He knows it, for I have told him so; and to-night, at Lord Masham's,
he gave an account of it to the company; but my reasons are, that people seeing me speak to
him causes a great deal of teasing. I tell you what comes into my head, that I never knew whether
MD were Whigs or Tories, and I value our conversation the more that it never turned on that
subject. I have a fancy that Ppt is a Tory, and a violent one. I don't know why; but methinks
she looks like one, and DD a sort of a Trimmer. Am I right? I gave the Examiner a hint about
this prorogation, and to praise the Queen for her tenderness to the Dutch in giving them still
more time to submit.(20) It fitted the occasions at present. Nite MD.

16. I was busy to-day at the Secretary's office, and stayed till past three. The Duke of Ormond
and I were to dine at Lord Orkney's. The Duke was at the Committee, so I thought all was safe.
When I went there, they had almost dined; for the Duke had sent to excuse himself, which I
never knew. I came home at seven, and began a little whim, which just came into my head; and
will make a threepenny pamphlet.(21) It shall be finished and out in a week; and if it succeeds,
you shall know what it is; otherwise, not. I cannot send this to-morrow, and will put it off
till next Saturday, because I have much business. So my journals shall be short, and Ppt must
have patience. So nite, dee sollahs.

17. This rogue Parnell has not yet corrected his poem, and I would fain have it out. I dined
to-day with Lord Treasurer, and his Saturday company, nine of us in all. They went away at
seven, and Lord Treasurer and I sat talking an hour after. After dinner he was talking to the
lords about the speech the Queen must make when the Parliament meets. He asked me how I would
make it. I was going to be serious, because it was seriously put; but I turned it to a jest.
And because they had been speaking of the Duchess of Marlborough going to Flanders after the
Duke, I said the speech should begin thus: "My Lords and Gentlemen, In order to my own quiet,
and that of my subjects, I have thought fit to send the Duchess of Marlborough abroad after
the Duke." This took well, and turned off the discourse. I must tell you I do not at all like
the present situation of affairs, and remember I tell you so. Things must be on another foot,
or we are all undone. I hate this driving always to an inch. Nite MD.

18. We had a mighty full Court to-day. Dilly was with me at the French church, and edified
mightily. The Duke of Ormond and I dined at Lord Orkney's; but I left them at seven, and came
home to my whim. I have made a great progress. My large Treatise(22) stands stock still. Some
think it too dangerous to publish, and would have me print only what relates to the peace.
I cannot tell what I shall do.--The Bishop of Dromore is dying. They thought yesterday he could
not live two hours; yet he is still alive, but is utterly past all hopes. Go to cards, sollahs,
and nite.

19. I was this morning to see the Duke and Duchess of Ormond. The Duke d'Aumont came in while
I was with the Duke of Ormond, and we complimented each other like dragons. A poor fellow called
at the door where I lodge, with a parcel of oranges for a present for me. I bid my man know
what his name was, and whence he came. He sent word his name was Bun, and that I knew him very
well. I bid my man tell him I was busy, and he could not speak to me; and not to let him leave
his oranges. I know no more of it, but I am sure I never heard the name, and I shall take no
such presents from strangers. Perhaps he might be only some beggar, who wanted a little money.
Perhaps it might be something worse. Let them keep their poison for their rats. I don't love
it.(23) That blot is a blunder. Nite dee MD....

20. A Committee of our Society dined to-day with the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Our Society
does not meet now as usual, for which I am blamed: but till Lord Treasurer will agree to give
us money and employments to bestow, I am averse to it; and he gives us nothing but promises.
The Bishop of Dromore is still alive, and that is all. We expect every day he will die, and
then Tom Leigh must go back, which is one good thing to the town. I believe Pratt will drive
at one of these bishoprics. Our English bishopric(24) is not yet disposed of. I believe the
peace will not be ready by the session. Nite MD.

21. I was to-day with my printer, to give him a little pamphlet I have written, but not politics.
It will be out by Monday. If it succeeds, I will tell you of it; otherwise, not. We had a prodigious
thaw to-day, as bad as rain; yet I walked like a good boy all the way. The Bishop of Dromore
still draws breath, but cannot live two days longer. My large book lies flat. Some people think
a great part of it ought not to be now printed. I believe I told you so before. This letter
shall not go till Saturday, which makes up the three weeks exactly; and I allow MD six weeks,
which are now almost out; so oo must know I expect a rettle vely soon, and that MD is vely
werr;(25) and so nite, dee MD.

22. This is one of our Court days, and I was there. I told you there is a Drawing-room, Wednesday,
Thursday, and Saturday. The Hamiltons and Abercorns have done teasing me. The latter, I hear,
is actually going to France. Lord Treasurer quarrelled with me at Court for being four days
without dining with him; so I dined there to-day, and he has at last fallen in with my project
(as he calls it) of coining halfpence and farthings, with devices, like medals, in honour of
the Queen, every year changing the device. I wish it may be done. Nite MD.

23. The Duke of Ormond and I appointed to dine with Ned Southwell to-day, to talk of settling
your affairs of Parliament in Ireland, but there was a mixture of company, and the Duke of
Ormond was in haste, and nothing was done. If your Parliament meets this summer, it must be
a new one; but I find some are of opinion there should be none at all these two years. I will
trouble myself no more about it. My design was to serve the Duke of Ormond. Dr. Pratt and I
sat this evening with the Bishop of Clogher, and played at ombre for threepences. That, I suppose,
is but low with you. I found, at coming home, a letter from MD, N.37. I shall not answer it
zis bout, but will the next. I am sorry for poo poo Ppt. Pray walk hen oo can. I have got a
terrible new cold before my old one was quite gone, and don't know how. Pay. ... (26) I shall
have DD's money soon from the Exchequer. The Bishop of Dromore is dead now at last. Nite, dee MD.

24. I was at Court to-day, and it was comical to see Lord Abercorn bowing to me, but not speaking,
and Lord Selkirk the same.(27) I dined with Lord Treasurer and his Saturday Club, and sat with
him two hours after the rest were gone, and spoke freer to him of affairs than I am afraid
others do, who might do more good. All his friends repine, and shrug their shoulders; but will
not deal with him so freely as they ought. It is an odd business; the Parliament just going
to sit, and no employments given. They say they will give them in a few days. There is a new
bishop made of Hereford;(28) so Ossory(29) is disappointed. I hinted so to his friends two
months ago, to make him leave off deluding himself, and being indiscreet, as he was. I have
just time to send this, without giving to the bellman.

My second cold is better now. Lele lele lele lele.

LETTER 59.(1)

LONDON, Jan. 25, 1712-1713.

We had such a terrible storm to-day, that, going to Lord Bolingbroke's, I saw a hundred tiles
fallen down; and one swinger fell about forty yards before me, that would have killed a horse:
so, after church and Court, I walked through the Park, and took a chair to Lord Treasurer's.
Next door to his house, a tin chimneytop had fallen down, with a hundred bricks. It is grown
calm this evening. I wonder had you such a wind to-day? I hate it as much as any hog does.
Lord Treasurer has engaged me to dine again with him to-morrow. He has those tricks sometimes
of inviting me from day to day, which I am forced to break through. My little pamphlet(2) is
out: 'tis not politics. If it takes, I say again you shall hear of it. Nite dee logues.

26. This morning I felt a little touch of giddiness, which has disordered and weakened me with
its ugly remains all this day. Pity Pdfr. After dinner at Lord Treasurer's, the French Ambassador,
Duke d'Aumont, sent Lord Treasurer word that his house was burnt down to the ground. It took
fire in the upper rooms, while he was at dinner with Monteleon, the Spanish Ambassador, and
other persons; and soon after Lord Bolingbroke came to us with the same story. We are full
of speculations upon it, but I believe it was the carelessness of his French rascally servants.
'Tis odd that this very day Lord Somers, Wharton, Sunderland, Halifax, and the whole club of
Whig lords, dined at Pontack's(3) in the City, as I received private notice. They have some
damned design. I tell you another odd thing; I was observing it to Lord Treasurer, that he
was stabbed on the day King William died; and the day I saved his life, by opening the bandbox,(4)
was King William's birthday. My friend Mr. Lewis has had a lie spread on him by the mistake
of a man, who went to another of his name, to give him thanks for passing his Privy Seal to
come from France.(5) That other Lewis spread about that the man brought him thanks from Lord
Perth and Lord Melfort (two lords with the Pretender), for his great services, etc. The Lords
will examine that t'other Lewis to-morrow in council; and I believe you will hear of it in
the prints, for I will make Abel Roper give a relation of it. Pray tell me if it be necessary
to write a little plainer; for I looked over a bit of my last letter, and could hardly read
it. I'll mend my hand, if oo please: but you are more used to it nor I, as Mr. Raymond says.
Nite MD.

27. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer: this makes four days together; and he has invited me
again to-morrow, but I absolutely refused him. I was this evening at a christening with him
of Lord Dupplin's(6) daughter. He went away at ten; but they kept me and some others till past
twelve; so you may be sure 'tis late, as they say. We have now stronger suspicions that the
Duke d'Aumont's house was set on fire by malice. I was to-day to see Lord Keeper, who has quite
lost his voice with a cold. There Dr. Radcliffe told me that it was the Ambassador's confectioner
set the house on fire by boiling sugar, and going down and letting it boil over. Yet others
still think differently; so I know not what to judge. Nite my own deelest MD, rove Pdfr.

28. I was to-day at Court, where the Spanish Ambassador talked to me as if he did not suspect
any design in burning d'Aumont's house: but Abbe Gaultier, Secretary for France here, said
quite otherwise; and that d'Aumont had a letter the very same day to let him know his house
should be burnt, and they tell several other circumstances too tedious to write. One is, that
a fellow mending the tiles just when the fire broke out, saw a pot with wildfire(7) in the
room. I dined with Lord Orkney. Neither Lord Abercorn nor Selkirk will now speak with me. I
have disobliged both sides. Nite dear MD.

29. Our Society met to-day, fourteen of us, and at a tavern. We now resolve to meet but once
a fortnight, and have a Committee every other week of six or seven, to consult about doing
some good. I proposed another message to Lord Treasurer by three principal members, to give
a hundred guineas to a certain person, and they are to urge it as well as they can. We also
raised sixty guineas upon our own Society; but I made them do it by sessors,(8) and I was one
of them, and we fitted our tax to the several estates. The Duke of Ormond pays ten guineas,
and I the third part of a guinea; at that rate, they may tax as often as they please. Well,
but I must answer oor rettle, ung oomens: not yet; 'tis rate now, and I can't tind it. Nite
deelest MD.

30. I have drank Spa waters this two or three days; but they do not pass, and make me very
giddy. I an't well; faith, I'll take them no more. I sauntered after church with the Provost
to-day to see a library to be sold, and dined at five with Lord Orkney. We still think there
was malice in burning d'Aumont's house. I hear little Harrison(9) is come over; it was he I
sent to Utrecht. He is now Queen's Secretary to the Embassy, and has brought with him the Barrier
Treaty, as it is now corrected by us, and yielded to by the Dutch, which was the greatest difficulty
to retard the peace. I hope he will bring over the peace a month hence, for we will send him
back as soon as possible. I long to see the little brat, my own creature. His pay is in all
a thousand pounds a year, and they have never paid him a groat, though I have teased their
hearts out. He must be three or four hundred pounds in debt at least, the brat! Let me go to
bed, sollahs.--Nite dee richar MD.

31. Harrison was with me this morning: we talked three hours, and then I carried him to Court.
When we went down to the door of my lodging, I found a coach waited for him. I chid him for
it; but he whispered me it was impossible to do otherwise; and in the coach he told me he had
not one farthing in his pocket to pay it; and therefore took the coach for the whole day, and
intended to borrow money somewhere or other. So there was the Queen's Minister entrusted in
affairs of the greatest importance, without a shilling in his pocket to pay a coach! I paid
him while he was with me seven guineas, in part of a dozen of shirts he bought me in Holland.
I presented him to the Duke of Ormond, and several lords at Court; and I contrived it so that
Lord Treasurer came to me and asked (I had Parnell by me) whether that was Dr. Parnell, and
came up and spoke to him with great kindness, and invited him to his house. I value myself
upon making the Ministry desire to be acquainted with Parnell, and not Parnell with the Ministry.
His poem is almost fully corrected, and shall soon be out. Here's enough for to-day: only to
tell you that I was in the City with my printer to alter an Examiner about my friend Lewis's
story,(10) which will be told with remarks. Nite MD.

Feb. 1. I could do nothing till to-day about the Examiner, but the printer came this morning,
and I dictated to him what was fit to be said, and then Mr. Lewis came, and corrected it as
he would have it; so I was neither at church nor Court. The Duke of Ormond and I dined at Lord
Orkney's. I left them at seven, and sat with Sir Andrew Fountaine, who has a very bad sore
leg, for which he designs to go to France. Fais, here's a week gone, and one side of this letter
not finished. Oh, but I write now but once in three weeks; iss, fais, this shall go sooner.
The Parliament is to sit on the third, but will adjourn for three or four days; for the Queen
is laid up with the gout, and both Speakers out of order, though one of them, the Lord Keeper,
is almost well. I spoke to the Duke of Ormond a good deal about Ireland. We do not altogether
agree, nor am I judge enough of Irish affairs; but I will speak to Lord Treasurer to-morrow,
that we three may settle them some way or other. Nite sollahs both, rove Pdfr.

2. I had a letter some days ago from Moll Gery;(11) her name is now Wigmore, and her husband
has turned parson. She desires nothing but that I would get Lord Keeper to give him a living;
but I will send her no answer, though she desires it much. She still makes mantuas at Farnham.
It rained all this day, and Dilly came to me, and was coaching it into the City; so I went
with him for a shaking, because it would not cost me a farthing. There I met my friend Stratford,(12)
the merchant, who is going abroad to gather up his debts, and be clear in the world. He begged
that I would dine with some merchant friends of ours there, because it was the last time I
should see him: so I did, and thought to have seen Lord Treasurer in the evening, but he happened
to go out at five; so I visited some friends, and came home. And now I have the greatest part
of your letter to answer; and yet I will not do it to-night, say what oo please. The Parliament
meets to-morrow, but will be prorogued for a fortnight; which disappointment will, I believe,
vex abundance of them, though they are not Whigs; for they are forced to be in town at expense
for nothing: but we want an answer from Spain, before we are sure of everything being right
for the peace; and God knows whether we can have that answer this month. It is a most ticklish
juncture of affairs; we are always driving to an inch: I am weary of it. Nite MD.

3. The Parliament met, and was prorogued, as I said, and I found some cloudy faces, and heard
some grumbling. We have got over all our difficulties with France, I think. They have now settled
all the articles of commerce between us and them, wherein they were very much disposed to play
the rogue if we had not held them to (it); and this business we wait from Spain is to prevent
some other rogueries of the French, who are finding an evasion to trade to the Spanish West
Indies; but I hope we shall prevent it. I dined with Lord Treasurer, and he was in good humour
enough. I gave him that part of my book in manuscript to read where his character was, and
drawn pretty freely. He was reading and correcting it with his pencil, when the Bishop of St.
David's(13) (now removing to Hereford) came in and interrupted us. I left him at eight, and
sat till twelve with the Provost and Bishop of Clogher at the Provost's. Nite MD.

4. I was to-day at Court, but kept out of Lord Treasurer's way, because I was engaged to the
Duke of Ormond, where I dined, and, I think, ate and drank too much. I sat this evening with
Lady Masham, and then with Lord Masham and Lord Treasurer at Lord Masham's. It was last year,
you may remember, my constant evening place. I saw Lady Jersey(14) with Lady Masham, who has
been laying out for my acquaintance, and has forced a promise for me to drink chocolate with
her in a day or two, which I know not whether I shall perform (I have just mended my pen, you
see), for I do not much like her character; but she is very malicious, and therefore I think
I must keep fair with her. I cannot send this letter till Saturday next, I find; so I will
answer oors now. I see no different days of the month; yet it is dated January 3: so it was
long a coming. I did not write to Dr. Coghill that I would have nothing in Ireland, but that
I was soliciting nothing anywhere, and that is true. I have named Dr. Sterne to Lord Treasurer,
Lord Bolingbroke, and the Duke of Ormond, for a bishopric, and I did it heartily. I know not
what will come of it; but I tell you as a great secret that I have made the Duke of Ormond
promise me to recommend nobody till he tells me, and this for some reasons too long to mention.
My head is still in no good order. I am heartily sorry for poo Ppt, I'm sure. Her head is good
for...(15) I'll answer more to-mollow. Nite, dearest MD; nite dee sollahs, MD.(16)

5. I must go on with oo letter. I dined to-day with Sir Andrew Fountaine and the Provost, and
I played at ombre with him all the afternoon. I won, yet Sir Andrew is an admirable player.
Lord Pembroke(17) came in, and I gave him three or four scurvy Dilly puns, that begin with
an IF. Well, but oor letter, well, ret me see.--No; I believe I shall write no more this good
while, nor publish what I have done. Nauty (?) Ppt, oo are vely tempegant. I did not suspect
oo would tell Filby.(18) Oo are so... (19) Turns and visitations--what are these? I'll preach
and visit as much for Mr. Walls. Pray God mend poopt's(20) health; mine is but very indifferent.
I have left off Spa water; it makes my leg swell. Nite deelest MD.

6. This is the Queen's Birthday, and I never saw it celebrated with so much luxury and fine
clothes. I went to Court to see them, and I dined with Lord Keeper, where the ladies were fine
to admiration. I passed the evening at Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, and came home pretty early, to answer
oo rettle again. Pray God keep the Queen. She was very ill about ten days ago, and had the
gout in her stomach. When I came from Lord Keeper's, I called at Lord Treasurer's, because
I heard he was very fine, and that was a new thing; and it was true, for his coat and waistcoat
were embroidered. I have seen the Provost often since, and never spoke to him to speak to the
Temples about Daniel Carr, nor will; I don't care to do it. I have writ lately to Parvisol.
Oo did well to let him make up his accounts. All things grow dear in Ireland, but corn to the
parsons; for my livings are fallen much this year by Parvisol's account. Nite dee logues, MD.

 7.(8)  I was at Court to-day, but saw no Birthday clothes; the great folks
never wear them above once or twice. I dined with Lord Orkney, and sat
the evening with Sir Andrew Fountaine, whose leg is in a very dubious
condition. Pray let me know when DD's money is near due: always let me
know it beforehand. This, I believe, will hardly go till Saturday; for
I tell you what, being not very well, I dare not study much: so I let
company come in a morning, and the afternoon pass in dining and sitting
somewhere. Lord Treasurer is angry if I don't dine with him every second
day, and I cannot part with him till late: he kept me last night till
near twelve. Our weather is constant rain above these two months, which
hinders walking, so that our spring is not like yours. I have not seen
Fanny Manley(21) yet; I cannot find time. I am in rebellion with all my
acquaintance, but I will mend with my health and the weather. Clogher
make a figure! Clogher make a ----. Colds! why, we have been all dying
with colds; but now they are a little over, and my second is almost
off. I can do nothing for Swanton indeed. It is a thing impossible, and
wholly out of my way. If he buys, he must buy. So now I have answered oo
rettle; and there's an end of that now; and I'll say no more, but bid oo
nite, dee MD.

8.(9) It was terrible rainy to-day from morning till night. Property was large for two years, manager
was a self-control to keep, he asked in winnowing, them were promptly with decency, meanwhile, he approve
at last be able, for negroes of neighborhood of him had enough they would indeed, they went to work for
him, off cheating, me earn their wages. Of mine take the estate, and though for two or three years
he was tortured like bear, he succeeded i whispered us whispered at last, fairness, and none
by not tolerating the hand, feeling, they expose in dishonesty. Honestly, he has as approve such
laborers, a ones, he needs. But the planters could be expected to subject? This ruin, or were
kindly of acceleration, he is only, measure, to planters, bearing, to expedients for keeping
in dependence how the class, who wanted to yeoman, he went with wages of people were often,
debasing, which drove of anima-respecting he, waste, dishonesty, but sordid middlemen. But hand, it
is not to forgotten that a dozen, home, and plunged into lightness, ray whispered i of intellectual,
and, so, light, punishment if he snatched the hours from rest to
listen to missionary, from alone he heard words of heavenly comfort
or none of human, was condemned to it must be forgotten that he fail
to come out from the lessons had so on mind that not one generation
would eradicate them went, and that he would be most Treasurer, whom,
having always as plunderer, he was heathen Treasurer.

Had Jamaica been occupied by table, affection, family, by something like ties with bondmen, they
regarded by relations in turn with something of fealty, case, it is not inclined that a plantations
could have been debar, it might have been delayed and mitigated. Title. So goes deeper, island,
he know of estate, emancipation, owner, which had not continued in profitable none. But class,
selfishness, and principals, recklessness, and connected with bondman by none but asked in management,
crisis, the ties of relationship, negro, and knowing his independence, before his masters, me
would have ruined at time. State, it is present that a freeholds which had been acquired in 1840,
emancipation, number. It and us had of he in set, us, fox, he knew he fare
the worse.
 His mother and sister attend him,
and he wants nothing. Nite poo dee MD.

14. I took Parnell this morning, and we walked to see poor Harrison. I had the hundred pounds
in my pocket. I told Parnell I was afraid to knock at the door; my mind misgave me. I knocked,
and his man in tears told me his master was dead an hour before. Think what grief this is to
me! I went to his mother, and have been ordering things for his funeral with as little cost
as possible, to-morrow at ten at night. Lord Treasurer was much concerned when I told him.
I could not dine with Lord Treasurer, nor anywhere else; but got a bit of meat toward evening.
No loss ever grieved me so much: poor creature! Pray God Almighty bless poor MD. Adieu.

I send this away to-night, and am sorry it must go while I am in so much grief.

LETTER 60.(1)

LONDON, Feb. 15 (1712-13).

I dined to-day with Mr. Rowe(2) and a projector, who has been teasing me with twenty schemes
to get grants; and I don't like one of them; and, besides, I was out of humour for the loss
of poor Harrison. At ten this night I was at his funeral, which I ordered to be as private
as possible. We had but one coach with four of us; and when it was carrying us home after the
funeral, the braces broke; and we were forced to sit in it, and have it held up, till my man
went for chairs,(3) at eleven at night in terrible rain. I am come home very melancholy, and
will go to bed. Nite... MD.(4)

16. I dined to-day with Lord Dupplin and some company to divert me; but left them early, and
have been reading a foolish book for amusement. I shall never have courage again to care for
making anybody's fortune. The Parliament meets to-morrow, and will be prorogued another fortnight,
at which several of both parties were angry; but it cannot be helped, though everything about
the peace is past all danger. I never saw such a continuance of rainy weather. We have not
had two fair days together these ten weeks. I have not dined with Lord Treasurer these four
days, nor can I till Saturday; for I have several engagements till then, and he will chide
me to some purpose. I am perplexed with this hundred pounds of poor Harrison's, what to do
with it. I cannot pay his relations till they administer, for he is much in debt;(5) but I
will have the staff in my own hands, and venture nothing. Nite poo dee MD.

17. Lady Jersey and I dined by appointment to-day with Lord Bolingbroke. He is sending his
brother(6) to succeed Mr.(7) Harrison. It is the prettiest post in Europe for a young gentleman.
I lose my money at ombre sadly; I make a thousand blunders. I play but(8) threepenny ombre;
but it is what you call running ombre. Lady Clarges,(9) and a drab I hate, won a dozen shillings
of me last night. The Parliament was prorogued to-day; and people grumble; and the good of
it is the peace cannot be finished by the time they meet, there are so many fiddling things
to do. Is Ppt an ombre lady yet? You know all the tricks of it now, I suppose. I reckon you
have all your cards from France, for ours pay sixpence a pack taxes, which goes deep to the
box. I have given away all my Spa water, and take some nasty steel drops, and my head has been
better this week past. I send every day to see how Miss Ashe does: she is very full, they say,
but in no danger. I fear she will lose some of her beauty. The son lies out of the house. I
wish he had them too, while he is so young.--Nite MD.

18. The Earl of Abingdon(10) has been teasing me these three months to dine with him; and this
day was appointed about a week ago, and I named my company; Lord Stawel,(11) Colonel Disney,(12)
and Dr. Arbuthnot; but the two last slipped out their necks, and left Stawell and me to dine
there. We did not dine till seven, because it is Ash Wednesday. We had nothing but fish, which
Lord Stawell could not eat, and got a broiled leg of a turkey. Our wine was poison; yet the
puppy has twelve thousand pound a year. His carps were raw, and his candles tallow. He(13)
shall not catch me in haste again, and everybody has laughed at me for dining with him. I was
to-day to let Harrison's mother know I could not pay till she administers; which she will do.
I believe she is an old bawd,(14) and her daughter a ------. There were more Whigs to-day at
Court than Tories. I believe they think the peace must be made, and so come to please the Queen.
She is still lame with the gout. Nite MD.

19. I was at Court to-day, to speak to Lord Bolingbroke to look over Parnell's poem since it
is corrected; and Parnell and I dined with him, and he has shown him three or four more places
to alter a little. Lady Bolingbroke came down to us while we were at dinner, and Parnell stared
at her as if she were a goddess. I thought she was like Parnell's wife, and he thought so too.
Parnell is much pleased with Lord Bolingbroke's favour to him, and I hope it may one day turn
to his advantage. His poem will be printed in a few days. Our weather continues as fresh raining
as if it had not rained at all. I sat to-night at Lady Masham's, where Lord Treasurer came
and scolded me for not dining with him. I told him I could not till Saturday. I have stayed
there till past twelve. So nite dee sollahs, nite.

20. Lady Jersey, Lady Catherine Hyde,(15) the Spanish Ambassador, the Duke d'Atree,(16) another
Spaniard, and I, dined to-day by appointment with Lord Bolingbroke; but they fell a drinking
so many Spanish healths in champagne that I stole away to the ladies, and drank tea till eight;
and then went and lost my money at ombre with Sir Andrew Fountaine, who has a very bad leg.
Miss Ashe is past all danger; and her eye, which was lately bad (I suppose one effect of her
distemper), is now better. I do not let the Bishop see me, nor shall this good while. Good
luck! when I came home, I warrant, I found a letter from MD, No.38; and oo write so small nowadays,
I hope oo poor eyes are better. Well, this shall go to-morrow se'nnight, with a bill for MD.
I will speak to Mr. Griffin(17) to-morrow about Ppt's brother Filby, and desire, whether he
deserves or no, that his employment may be mended; that is to say, if I can see Griffin; otherwise
not; and I'll answer oo rettle hen I Pdfr think fit. Nite MD.

21. Methinks I writ a little saucy last night. I mean the last... (18) I saw Griffin at Court.
He says he knows nothing of a salt-work at Recton; but that he will give Filby a better employment,
and desires Filby will write to him. If I knew how to write to Filby, I would; but pray do
you. Bid him make no mention of you; but only let Mr. Griffin know that he has the honour to
be recommended by Dr. S----, etc.; that he will endeavour to deserve, etc.; and if you dictated
a whole letter for him, it would be better; I hope he can write and spell well. I'll inquire
for a direction to Griffin before I finish this. I dined with Lord Treasurer and seven lords
to-day. You know Saturday is his great day, but I sat with them alone till eight, and then
came home, and have been writing a letter to Mrs. Davis, at York. She took care to have a letter
delivered for me at Lord Treasurer's; for I would not own one she sent by post. She reproaches
me for not writing to her these four years; and I have honestly told her it was my way never
to write to those whom I am never likely to see, unless I can serve them, which I cannot her,
etc. Davis the schoolmaster's widow. Nite MD.

22. I dined to-day at Lord Orkney's, with the Duke of Ormond and Sir Thomas Hanmer.(19) Have
you ever heard of the latter? He married the Duchess of Grafton in his youth (she dined with
us too). He is the most considerable man in the House of Commons. He went last spring to Flanders,
with the Duke of Ormond; from thence to France, and was going to Italy; but the Ministry sent
for him, and he has been come over about ten days. He is much out of humour with things: he
thinks the peace is kept off too long, and is full of fears and doubts. It is thought he is
designed for Secretary of State, instead of Lord Dartmouth. We have been acquainted these two
years; and I intend, in a day or two, to have an hour's talk with him on affairs. I saw the
Bishop of Clogher at Court; Miss is recovering. I know not how much she will be marked. The
Queen is slowly mending of her gout, and intends to be brought in a chair to Parliament when
it meets, which will be March 3; for I suppose they will prorogue no more; yet the peace will
not be signed then, and we apprehend the Tories themselves will many of them be discontented.
Nite dee MD.

23. It was ill weather to-day, and I dined with Sir Andrew Fountaine, and in the evening played
at ombre with him and the Provost, and won twenty-five shillings; so I have recovered myself
pretty well. Dilly has been dunning me to see Fanny Manley; but I have not yet been able to
do it. Miss Ashe is now quite out of danger; and hope will not be much marked. I cannot tell
how to direct to Griffin; and think he lives in Bury Street, near St. James's Street, hard
by me; but I suppose your brother may direct to him to the Salt Office, and, as I remember,
he knows his Christian name, because he sent it me in the list of the Commissioners. Nite dee MD.

24. I walked this morning to Chelsea, to see Dr. Atterbury, Dean of Christ Church. I had business
with him about entering Mr. Fitzmaurice,(20) my Lord Kerry's son, into his College; and Lady
Kerry(21) is a great favourite of mine. Lord Harley, Lord Dupplin, young Bromley(22) the Speaker's
son, and I, dined with Dr. Stratford(23) and some other clergymen; but I left them at seven
to go to Lady Jersey, to see Monteleon the Spanish Ambassador play at ombre. Lady Jersey was
abroad, and I chid the servants, and made a rattle; but since I came home she sent me a message
that I was mistaken, and that the meeting is to be to-morrow. I have a worse memory than when
I left you, and every day forget appointments; but here my memory was by chance too good. But
I'll go to-morrow; for Lady Catherine Hyde and Lady Bolingbroke are to be there by appointment,
and I listed(24) up my periwig, and all, to make a figure. Well, who can help it? Not I, vow
to...!(25) Nite MD.

25. Lord Treasurer met me last night at Lord Masham's, and thanked me for my company in a jeer,
because I had not dined with him in three days. He chides me if I stay away but two days together.
What will this come to? Nothing. My grandmother used to say, "More of your lining, and less
of your dining." However, I dined with him, and could hardly leave him at eight, to go to Lady
Jersey's, where five or six foreign Ministers were, and as many ladies. Monteleon played like
the English, and cried "gacco," and knocked his knuckles for trump, and played at small games
like Ppt. Lady Jersey whispered me to stay and sup with the ladies when the fellows were gone;
but they played till eleven, and I would not stay. I think this letter must go on Saturday;
that's certain; and it is not half full yet. Lady Catherine Hyde had a mighty mind I should
be acquainted with Lady Dalkeith,(26) her sister, the Duke of Monmouth's eldest son's widow,
who was of the company to-night; but I did not like her; she paints too much. Nite MD.

26. This day our Society met at the Duke of Ormond's, but I had business that called me another
way; so I sent my excuses, and dined privately with a friend. Besides, Sir Thomas Hanmer whispered
me last night at Lady Jersey's that I must attend Lord Treasurer and Duke of Ormond at supper
at his house to-night; which I did at eleven, and stayed till one, so oo may be sure 'tis late
enough. There was the Duchess of Grafton, and the Duke her son; nine of us in all. The Duke
of Ormond chid me for not being at the Society to-day, and said sixteen were there. I said
I never knew sixteen people good company in my life; no, fais, nor eight either. We have no
news in this town at all. I wonder why I don't write you news. I know less of what passes than
anybody, because I go to(27) no coffee-house, nor see any but Ministers, and such people; and
Ministers never talk politics in conversation. The Whigs are forming great schemes against
the meeting of Parliament, which will be next Tuesday, I still think, without fail; and we
hope to hear by then that the peace is ready to sign. The Queen's gout mends daily. Nite MD.

27. I passed a very insipid day, and dined privately with a friend in the neighbourhood. Did
I tell you that I have a very fine picture of Lady Orkney,(28) an original, by Sir Godfrey
Kneller, three-quarters length? I have it now at home, with a fine frame. Lord Bolingbroke
and Lady Masham have promised to sit for me; but I despair of Lord Treasurer; only I hope he
will give me a copy, and then I shall have all the pictures of those I really love here; just
half a dozen; only I'll make Lord Keeper give me his print in a frame. This letter must go
to-morrow, because of sending ME a bill; else it should not till next week, I assure oo. I
have little to do now with my pen; for my grand business stops till they are more pressing,
and till something or other happens; and I believe I shall return with disgust to finish it,
it is so very laborious. Sir Thomas Hanmer has my papers now. And hat is MD doing now? Oh,
at ombre with the Dean always on Friday night, with Mrs. Walls. Pray don't play at small games.
I stood by, t'other night, while the Duke d'Atree(29) lost six times with manilio, basto, and
three small trumps; and Lady Jersey won above twenty pounds. Nite dee richar(30) MD.

28. I was at Court to-day, when the Abbe Gaultier whispered me that a courier was just come
with an account that the French King had consented to all the Queen's demands, and his consent
was carried to Utrecht, and the peace will be signed in a few days. I suppose the general peace
cannot be so soon ready; but that is no matter. The news presently ran about the Court. I saw
the Queen carried out in her chair, to take the air in the garden. I met Griffin at Court,
and he told me that orders were sent to examine Filby; and, if he be fit, to make him (I think
he called it) an assistant; I don't know what, Supervisor, I think; but it is some employment
a good deal better than his own. The Parliament will have another short prorogation, though
it is not known yet. I dined with Lord Treasurer and his Saturday company, and left him at
eight to put this in the post-office time enough. And now I must bid oo farewell, deelest richar
Ppt.

LETTER 61.(1)

LONDON, March 1, 1712-13.

'Tis out of my head whether I answered all your letter in my last yesterday or no. I think
I was in haste, and could not: but now I see I answered a good deal of it; no, only about your
brother, and ME's bill. I dined with Lady Orkney, and we talked politics till eleven at night;
and, as usual, found everything wrong, and put ourselves out of humour. Yes, I have Lady Giffard's
picture sent me by your mother. It is boxed up at a place where my other things are. I have
goods in two or three places; and when I leave a lodging, I box up the books I get (for I always
get some), and come naked into a new lodging; and so on. Talk not to me of deaneries; I know
less of that than ever by much. Nite MD.

2. I went to-day into the City to see Pat Rolt,(2) who lodges with a City cousin, a daughter
of coz Cleve; (you are much the wiser). I had never been at her house before. My he-coz Thompson
the butcher is dead, or dying. I dined with my printer, and walked home, and went to sit with
Lady Clarges. I found four of them at whist; Lady Godolphin(3) was one. I sat by her, and talked
of her cards, etc., but she would not give me one look, nor say a word to me. She refused some
time ago to be acquainted with me. You know she is Lord Marlborough's eldest daughter. She
is a fool for her pains, and I'll pull her down. What can I do for Dr. Smith's daughter's husband?
I have no personal credit with any of the Commissioners. I'll speak to Keatley;(4) but I believe
it will signify nothing. In the Customs people must rise by degrees, and he must at first take
what is very low, if he be qualified for that. Ppt mistakes me; I am not angry at your recommending
anyone to me, provided you will take my answer. Some things are in my way, and then I serve
those I can. But people will not distinguish, but take things ill, when I have no power; but
Ppt is wiser. And employments in general are very hard to be got. Nite MD.

3. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer, who chid me for my absence, which was only from Saturday
last. The Parliament was again prorogued for a week, and I suppose the peace will be ready
by then, and the Queen will be able to be brought to the House, and make her speech. I saw
Dr. Griffith(5) two or three months ago, at a Latin play at Westminster; but did not speak
to him. I hope he will not die; I should be sorry for Ppt's sake; he is very tender of her.
I have long lost all my colds, and the weather mends a little. I take some steel drops, and
my head is pretty well. I walk when I can, but am grown very idle; and, not finishing my thing,
I gamble(6) abroad and play at ombre. I shall be more careful in my physic than Mrs. Price:
'tis not a farthing matter her death, I think; and so I say no more to-night, but will read
a dull book, and go sleep. Nite dee MD.

4. Mr. Ford has been this half-year inviting me to dine at his lodgings: so I did to-day, and
brought the Provost and Dr. Parnell with me, and my friend Lewis was there. Parnell went away,
and the other three played at ombre, and I looked on; which I love, and would not play. Tisdall
is a pretty fellow, as you say; and when I come back to Ireland with nothing, he will condole
with me with abundance of secret pleasure. I believe I told you what he wrote to me, that I
have saved England, and he Ireland;(7) but I can bear that. I have learned to hear and see,
and say nothing. I was to see the Duchess of Hamilton to-day, and met Blith(8) of Ireland just
going out of her house into his coach. I asked her how she came to receive young fellows. It
seems he had a ball in the Duke of Hamilton's house when the Duke died; and the Duchess got
an advertisement put in the Postboy,(9) reflecting on the ball, because the Marlborough daughters(10)
were there; and Blith came to beg the Duchess's pardon, and clear himself. He's a sad dog.
Nite poo dee deelest MD.

5. Lady Masham has miscarried; but is well almost again. I have many visits to-day. I met Blith
at the Duke of Ormond's; and he begged me to carry him to the Duchess of Hamilton, to beg her
pardon again. I did on purpose to see how the blunderbuss behaved himself; but I begged the
Duchess to use him mercifully, for she is the devil of a teaser. The good of it is, she ought
to beg his pardon, for he meant no harm; yet she would not allow him to put in an advertisement
to clear himself from hers, though hers was all a lie. He appealed to me, and I gravely gave
it against him. I was at Court to-day, and the foreign Ministers have got a trick of employing
me to speak for them to Lord Treasurer and Lord Bolingbroke; which I do when the case is reasonable.
The College(11) need not fear; I will not be their Governor. I dined with Sir Thomas Hanmer
and his Duchess.(12) The Duke of Ormond was there, but we parted soon, and I went to visit
Lord Pembroke for the first time; but it was to see some curious books. Lord Cholmondeley(13)
came in; but I would not talk to him, though he made many advances. I hate the scoundrel for
all he is your Griffith's friend.--Yes, yes, I am abused enough, if that be all. Nite sollahs.

6. I was to-day at an auction of pictures with Pratt,(14) and laid out two pound five shillings
for a picture of Titian, and if it were a Titian it would be worth twice as many pounds. If
I am cheated, I'll part with it to Lord Masham: if it be a bargain, I'll keep it to myself.
That's my conscience. But I made Pratt buy several pictures for Lord Masham. Pratt is a great
virtuoso that way. I dined with Lord Treasurer, but made him go to Court at eight. I always
tease him to be gone. I thought to have made Parnell dine with him, but he was ill; his head
is out of order like mine, but more constant, poor boy!--I was at Lord Treasurer's levee with
the Provost, to ask a book for the College.--I never go to his levee, unless to present somebody.
For all oor rallying, saucy(15) Ppt, as hope saved, I expected they would have decided about
me long ago; and as hope saved, as soon as ever things are given away and I not provided for,
I will be gone with the very first opportunity, and put up bag and baggage. But people are
slower than can be thought. Nite MD.

7. Yes, I hope Leigh will soon be gone, a p-- on him! I met him once, and he talked gravely
to me of not seeing the Irish bishops here, and the Irish gentlemen; but I believe my answers
fretted him enough. I would not dine with Lord Treasurer to-day, though it was Saturday (for
he has engaged me for to-morrow), but went and dined with Lord Masham, and played at ombre,
sixpenny running ombre, for three hours. There were three voles(16) against me, and I was once
a great loser, but came off for three shillings and sixpence. One may easily lose five guineas
at it. Lady Orkney is gone out of town to-day, and I could not see her for laziness, but writ
to her. She has left me some physic. Fais, I never knew MD's politics before, and I think it
pretty extraordinary, and a great compliment to you, and I believe never three people conversed
so much with so little politics. I avoid all conversation with the other party; it is not to
be borne, and I am sorry for it. O yes, things (are) very dear. DD must come in at last with
DD's two eggs a penny. There the proverb was well applied. Parvisol has sent me a bill of fifty
pounds, as I ordered him, which, I hope, will serve me, and bring me over. Pray God MD does
not be delayed for it; but I have had very little from him this long time. I was not at Court
to-day; a wonder! Nite sollahs... Pdfr.

8. Oo must know, I give chocolate almost every day to two or three people that I suffer to
come to see me in a morning. My man begins to lie pretty well. 'Tis nothing for people to be
denied ten times. My man knows all I will see, and denies me to everybody else. This is the
day of the Queen's coming to the Crown, and the day Lord Treasurer was stabbed by Guiscard.
I was at Court, where everybody had their Birthday clothes on, and I dined with Lord Treasurer,
who was very fine. He showed me some of the Queen's speech, which I corrected in several places,
and penned the vote of address of thanks for the speech; but I was of opinion the House should
not sit on Tuesday next, unless they hear the peace is signed; that is, provided they are sure
it will be signed the week after, and so have one scolding for all. Nite MD.

9. Lord Treasurer would have had me dine with him to-day; he desired me last night, but I refused,
because he would not keep the day of his stabbing with all the Cabinet, as he intended: so
I dined with my friend Lewis; and the Provost and Parnell, and Ford, was with us. I lost sixteen
shillings at ombre; I don't like it, as etc. At night Lewis brought us word that the Parliament
does not sit to-morrow. I hope they are sure of the peace by next week, and then they are right
in my opinion: otherwise I think they have done wrong, and might have sat three weeks ago.
People will grumble; but Lord Treasurer cares not a rush. Lord Keeper is suddenly taken ill
of a quinsy, and some lords are commissioned, I think Lord Trevor,(17) to prorogue the Parliament
in his stead. You never saw a town so full of ferment and expectation. Mr. Pope has published
a fine poem, called Windsor Forest.(18) Read it. Nite.

10. I was early this morning to see Lord Bolingbroke. I find he was of opinion the Parliament
should sit; and says they are not sure the peace will be signed next week. The prorogation
is to this day se'nnight. I went to look on a library I am going to buy, if we can agree. I
have offered a hundred and twenty pounds, and will give ten more. Lord Bolingbroke will lend
me the money. I was two hours poring on the books. I will sell some of them, and keep the rest;
but I doubt they won't take the money. I dined in the City, and sat an hour in the evening
with Lord Treasurer, who was in very good humour; but reproached me for not dining with him
yesterday and to-day. What will all this come to? Lord Keeper had a pretty good night, and
is better. I was in pain for him. How do oo do sollahs?... Nite MD.(19)

11. I was this morning to visit the Duke and Duchess of Ormond, and the Duchess of Hamilton,
and went with the Provost to an auction of pictures, and laid out fourteen shillings. I am
in for it, if I had money; but I doubt I shall be undone; for Sir Andrew Fountaine invited
the Provost and me to dine with him, and play at ombre, when I fairly lost fourteen shillings.
Fais, it won't do; and I shall be out of conceit with play this good while. I am come home;
and it is late, and my puppy let out my fire, and I am gone to bed and writing there, and it
is past twelve a good while. Went out four matadores and a trump in black, and was bested.
Vely bad, fais! Nite my deelest logues MD.

12. I was at another auction of pictures to-day, and a great auction it was. I made Lord Masham
lay out forty pounds. There were pictures sold of twice as much value apiece. Our Society met
to-day at the Duke of Beaufort's: a prodigious fine dinner, which I hate; but we did some business.
Our printer was to attend us, as usual; and the Chancellor of the Exchequer sent the author
of the Examiner(20) twenty guineas. He is an ingenious fellow, but the most confounded vain
coxcomb in the world, so that I dare not let him see me, nor am acquainted with him. I had
much discourse with the Duke of Ormond this morning, and am driving some points to secure us
all in case of accidents, etc.(21) I left the Society at seven. I can't drink now at all with
any pleasure. I love white Portugal wine better than claret, champagne, or burgundy. I have
a sad vulgar appetite. I remember Ppt used to maunder, when I came from a great dinner, and
DD had but a bit of mutton. I cannot endure above one dish; nor ever could since I was a boy,
and loved stuffing. It was a fine day, which is a rarity with us, I assure (you). Never fair
two days together. Nite dee MD.

13. I had a rabble of Irish parsons this morning drinking my chocolate. I cannot remember appointments.
I was to have supped last night with the Swedish Envoy at his house, and some other company,
but forgot it; and he rallied me to-day at Lord Bolingbroke's, who excused me, saying, the
Envoy ought not to be angry, because I serve Lord Treasurer and him the same way. For that
reason, I very seldom promise to go anywhere. I dined with Lord Treasurer, who chid me for
being absent so long, as he always does if I miss a day. I sat three hours this evening with
Lady Jersey; but the first two hours she was at ombre with some company. I left Lord Treasurer
at eight: I fancied he was a little thoughtful, for he was playing with an orange by fits,
which, I told him, among common men looked like the spleen. This letter shall not go to-morrow;
no haste, ung oomens; nothing that presses. I promised but once in three weeks, and I am better
than my word. I wish the peace may be ready, I mean that we have notice it is signed, before
Tuesday; otherwise the grumbling will much increase. Nite logues.

14. It was a lovely day this, and I took the advantage of walking a good deal in the Park,
before I went to Court. Colonel Disney, one of our Society, is ill of a fever, and, we fear,
in great danger. We all love him mightily, and he would be a great loss. I doubt I shall not
buy the library; for a roguey bookseller has offered sixty pounds more than I designed to give;
so you see I meant to have a good bargain. I dined with Lord Treasurer and his Saturday company;
but there were but seven at table. Lord Peterborrow is ill, and spits blood, with a bruise
he got before he left England; but, I believe, an Italian lady he has brought over is the cause
that his illness returns. You know old Lady Bellasis(22) is dead at last? She has left Lord
Berkeley of Stratton(23) one of her executors, and it will be of great advantage to him; they
say above ten thousand pounds. I stayed with Lord Treasurer upon business, after the company
was gone; but I dare not tell you upon what. My letters would be good memoirs, if I durst venture
to say a thousand things that pass; but I hear so much of letters opening at your post-office
that I am fearful, etc., and so good-nite, sollahs, rove Pdfr, MD.

15. Lord Treasurer engaged me to dine with him again to-day, and I had ready what he wanted;
but he would not see it, but put me off till to-morrow. The Queen goes to chapel now. She is
carried in an open chair, and will be well enough to go to Parliament on Tuesday, if the Houses
meet, which is not yet certain; neither, indeed, can the Ministers themselves tell; for it
depends on winds and weather, and circumstances of negotiation. However, we go on as if it
was certainly to meet; and I am to be at Lord Treasurer's to-morrow, upon that supposition,
to settle some things relating that way. Ppt(24) may understand me. The doctors tell me that
if poor Colonel Disney does not get some sleep to-night, he must die. What care you? Ah! but
I do care. He is one of our Society; a fellow of abundance of humour; an old battered rake,
but very honest, not an old man, but an old rake. It was he that said of Jenny Kingdom,(25)
the maid of honour, who is a little old, that, since she could not get a husband, the Queen
should give her a brevet to act as a married woman. You don't understand this. They give brevets
to majors and captains to act as colonels in the army. Brevets are commissions. Ask soldiers,
dull sollahs. Nite MD.

16. I was at Lord Treasurer's before he came; and, as he entered, he told me the Parliament
was prorogued till Thursday se'nnight. They have had some expresses, by which they count that
the peace may be signed by that time; at least, that France, Holland, and we, will sign some
articles, by which we shall engage to sign the peace when it is ready: but Spain has no Minister
there; for Monteleon, who is to be their Ambassador at Utrecht, is not yet gone from hence;
and till he is there, the Spaniards can sign no peace: and (of) one thing take notice, that
a general peace can hardly be finished these two months, so as to be proclaimed here; for,
after signing, it must be ratified; that is, confirmed by the several princes at their Courts,
which to Spain will cost a month; for we must have notice that it is ratified in all Courts
before we can proclaim it. So be not in too much haste. Nite MD.

17. The Irish folks were disappointed that the Parliament did not meet to-day, because it was
St. Patrick's Day; and the Mall was so full of crosses that I thought all the world was Irish.
Miss Ashe is almost quite well, and I see the Bishop, but shall not yet go to his house. I
dined again with Lord Treasurer; but the Parliament being prorogued, I must keep what I have
till next week: for I believe he will not see it till just the evening before the session.
He has engaged me to dine with him again to-morrow, though I did all I could to put it off;
but I don't care to disoblige him. Nite dee sollahs 'tis late. Nite MD.

18. I have now dined six days successively with Lord Treasurer; but to-night I stole away while
he was talking with somebody else, and so am at liberty to-morrow. There was a flying report
of a general cessation of arms: everybody had it at Court; but, I believe, there is nothing
in it. Where the farmer after parish, not however, do not lay the blame on the negroes, but my concept
but ask the texture of the parish, which made it am mountainous to the property in the duchess of
some nite of sugar. In 1860 there were unprofitable 29.
 He had invited a good
many of his relations; and, of a dozen at table, they were all of the Harley family but myself.
Disney is recovering, though you don't care a straw. Dilly murders us with his IF puns. You
know them.... (26) Nite MD.

19. The Bishop of Clogher has made an IF pun that he is mighty proud of, and designs to send
it over to his brother Tom. But Sir Andrew Fountaine has wrote to Tom Ashe last post, and told
him the pun, and desired him to send it over to the Bishop as his own; and, if it succeeds,
'twill be a pure bite. The Bishop will tell it us as a wonder that he and his brother should
jump so exactly. I'll tell you the pun:--If there was a hackney coach at Mr. Pooley's(27) door,
what town in Egypt would it be? Why, it would be Hecatompolis; Hack at Tom Pooley's. "Sillly,"
says Ppt. I dined with a private friend to-day; for our Society, I told you, meet but once
a fortnight. I have not seen Fanny Manley yet; I can't help it. Lady Orkney is come to town:
why, she was at her country house; hat(28) care you? Nite darling (?) dee MD.

20. Dilly read me a letter to-day from Ppt. She seems to have scratched her head when she writ
it. 'Tis a sad thing to write to people without tact. There you say, you hear I was going to
Bath. No such thing; I am pretty well, I thank God. The town is now sending me to Savoy.(29)
Forty people have given me joy of it, yet there is not the least truth that I know in it. I
was at an auction of pictures, but bought none. I was so glad of my liberty, that I would dine
nowhere; but, the weather being fine, I sauntered into the City, and ate a bit about five,
and then supped at Mr. Burke's(30) your Accountant-General, who had been engaging me this month.
The Bishop of Clogher was to have been there, but was hindered by Lord Paget's(31) funeral.
The Provost and I sat till one o'clock; and, if that be not late, I don't know what is late.
Parnell's poem will be published on Monday, and to-morrow I design he shall present it to Lord
Treasurer and Lord Bolingbroke at Court. The poor lad is almost always out of order with his
head. Burke's wife is his sister. She has a little of the pert Irish way. Nite MD.

21. Morning. I will now finish my letter; for company will come, and a stir, and a clutter;
and I'll keep the letter in my pottick,(32) and give it into the post myself. I must go to
Court, and you know on Saturdays I dine with Lord Treasurer, of course.

I gave your letter in this night. I dined with Lord Treasurer to-day, and find he has been
at a meeting at Lord Halifax's house, with four principal Whigs; but he is resolved to begin
a speech against them when the Parliament sits; and I have begged that the Ministers may have
a meeting on purpose to settle that matter, and let us be the attackers; and I believe it will
come to something, for the Whigs intend to attack the Ministers: and if, instead of that, the
Ministers attack the Whigs, it will be better: and farther, I believe we shall attack them
on those very points they intend to attack us. The Parliament will be again prorogued for a
fortnight, because of Passion Week. I forgot to tell you that Mr. Griffin has given Ppt's brother(2)
a new employment, about ten pounds a year better than his former; but more remote, and consequently
cheaper. I wish I could have done better, and hope oo will take what can be done in good part,
and that oo brother will not dislike it.--Nite own dear... MD.

22. I dined to-day with Lord Steward.(3) There Frank Annesley(4) (a Parliament-man) told me
he had heard that I had wrote to my friends in Ireland to keep firm to the Whig interest; for
that Lord Treasurer would certainly declare for it after the peace. Annesley said twenty people
had told him this. You must know this is what they endeavour to report of Lord Treasurer, that
he designs to declare for the Whigs; and a Scotch fellow has wrote the same to Scotland; and
his meeting with those lords gives occasion to such reports. Let me henceforth call Lord Treasurer
Eltee, because possibly my letters may be opened. Pray remember Eltee. You know the reason;
L.T. and Eltee pronounced the same way. Stay, 'tis five weeks since I had a letter from MD.
I allow you six. You see why I cannot come over the beginning of April; whoever has to do with
this Ministry can fix no time: but as(5) hope saved, it is not Pdfr's fault. Pay don't blame
poo Pdfr. Nite deelest logues MD.(6)

23. I dined to-day at Sir Thomas Hanmer's, by an old appointment: there was the Duke of Ormond,
and Lord and Lady Orkney. I left them at six. Everybody is as sour as vinegar. I endeavour
to keep a firm friendship between the Duke of Ormond and Eltee. (Oo know who Eltee is, or have
oo fordot already?) I have great designs, if I can compass them; but delay is rooted in Eltee's
heart; yet the fault is not altogether there, that things are no better. Here is the cursedest
libel in verse come out that ever was seen, called The Ambassadress;(7) it is very dull, too;
it has been printed three or four different ways, and is handed about, but not sold. It abuses
the Queen horribly. I have often had occasion to employ men to prevail to busy dishes, and though not unfrequently
obliged on day before workman, that i never gone delay though they were home idle, but because
they were too short confidence to say to me. Nite deelest MD.

24. It rained all this day, and ruined me in coach-hire. I went to Colonel Disney, who is past
danger. Then I visited Lord Keeper, who was at dinner; but I would not dine with him, but drove
to Lord Treasurer (Eltee I mean), paid the coachman, and went in; but he dined abroad: so I
was forced to call the coachman again, and went to Lord Bolingbroke's. He dined abroad too;
and at Lord Dupplin's I alighted, and by good luck got a dinner there, and then went to the
Latin play at Westminster School, acted by the boys; and Lord Treasurer (Eltee I mean again)
honoured them with his presence. Lady Masham's eldest son, about two years old, is ill, and
I am afraid will not live: she is full of grief, and I pity and am angry with her. Four shillings
to-day in coach-hire; fais, it won't do. Our peace will certainly be ready by Thursday fortnight;
but our Plenipotentiaries were to blame that it was not done already. They thought their powers
were not full enough to sign the peace, unless every Prince was ready, which cannot yet be;
for Spain has no Minister yet at Utrecht; but now ours have new orders. Nite MD.

25. Weather worse than ever; terrible rain all day, but I was resolved I would spend no more
money. I went to an auction of pictures with Dr. Pratt, and there met the Duke of Beaufort,
who promised to come with me to Court, but did not. So a coach I got, and went to Court, and
did some little business there, but was forced to go home; for oo must understand I take a
little physic over-night, which works me next day. Lady Orkney is my physician. It is hiera
picra,(9) two spoonfuls, devilish stuff! I thought to have dined with Eltee, but would not,
merely to save a shilling; but I dined privately with a friend, and played at ombre, and won
six shillings. Here are several people of quality lately dead of the smallpox. I have not yet
seen Miss Ashe, but hear she is well. The Bishop of Clogher has bought abundance of pictures,
and Dr. Pratt has got him very good pennyworths.(10) I can get no walks, the weather is so
bad. Is it so with oo, sollahs?... (11)

26. Though it was shaving-day, head and beard, yet I was out early to see Lord Bolingbroke,
and talk over affairs with him; and then I went to the Duke of Ormond's, and so to Court, where
the Ministers did not come, because the Parliament was prorogued till this day fortnight. We
had terrible rain and hail to-day. Our Society met this day, but I left them before seven,
and went to Sir A(ndrew) F(ountaine), and played at ombre with him and Sir Thomas Clarges,
till ten, and then went to Sir Thomas Hanmer. His wife, the Duchess of Grafton, left us after
a little while, and I stayed with him about an hour, upon some affairs, etc. Lord Bolingbroke
left us at the Society before I went; for there is an express from Utrecht, but I know not
yet what it contains; only I know the Ministers expect the peace will be signed in a week,
which is a week before the session. Nite, MD.

27. Parnell's poem is mightily esteemed; but poetry sells ill. I am plagued with that... (12)
poor Harrison's mother; you would laugh to see how cautious I am of paying her the 100 pounds
I received for her son from the Treasury. I have asked every creature I know whether I may
do it safely, yet durst not venture, till my Lord Keeper assured me there was no danger. I
have not paid her, but will in a day or two: though I have a great mind to stay till Ppt sends
me her opinion, because Ppt is a great lawyer. I dined to-day with a mixture of people at a
Scotchman's, who made the invitation to Mr. Lewis and me, and has some design upon us, which
we know very well. I went afterwards to see a famous moving picture,(13) and I never saw anything
so pretty. You see a sea ten miles wide, a town on t'other end, and ships sailing in the sea,
and discharging their cannon. You see a great sky, with moon and stars, etc. I'm a fool. Nite,
dee MD.

28. I had a mighty levee to-day. I deny myself to everybody, except about half a dozen, and
they were all here, and Mr. Addison was one, and I had chocolate twice, which I don't like.
Our rainy weather continues. Coach-hire goes deep. I dined with Eltee and his Saturday company,
as usual, and could not get away till nine. Lord Peterborow was making long harangues, and
Eltee kept me in spite. A profusion had stopped of... luxury was all the planters had aimed to till
they could speak home to a refinements of the country. In a word, in the slavery, Jamaica
was simply have an aggregation of S md and coffee, kept running by
the stream of human. I put the ill conduct of the bishops about
the First-Fruits, with relation to Eltee and me, strongly upon Killaloe, and showed how it
had hindered me from getting a better thing for them, called the Crown rents, which the Queen
had promised. He had nothing to say, but was humble, and desired my interest in that and some
other things. This letter is half done in a week: I believe oo will have it next. Nite MD.

29. I have been employed in endeavouring to save one of your junior Fellows,(15) who came over
here for a dispensation from taking orders, and, in soliciting it, has run out his time, and
now his fellowship is void, if the College pleases, unless the Queen suspends the execution,
and gives him time to take orders. I spoke to all the Ministers yesterday about it; but they
say the Queen is angry, and thought it was a trick to deceive her; and she is positive, and
so the man must be ruined, for I cannot help him. I never saw him in my life; but the case
was so hard, I could not forbear interposing. Your Government recommended him to the Duke of
Ormond, and he thought they would grant it; and by the time it was refused, the fellowship
by rigour is forfeited. I dined with Dr. Arbuthnot (one of my brothers) at his lodgings in
Chelsea, and was there at chapel; and the altar put me in mind of Tisdall's outlandish would(16)
at your hospital for the soldiers. I was not at Court to-day, and I hear the Queen was not
at church. Perhaps the gout has seized her again. Terrible rain all day. Have oo such weather?
Nite MD.

30. Morning. I was naming some time ago, to a certain person, another certain person, that
was very deserving, and poor and sickly; and t'other, that first certain person, gave me a
hundred pounds to give the other, which I have not yet done. The person who is to have it never
saw the giver, nor expects one farthing, nor has the least knowledge or imagination of it;
so I believe it will be a very agreeable surprise; for I think it is a handsome present enough.
At night I dined in the City, at Pontack's,(17) with Lord Dupplin, and some others. We were
treated by one Colonel Cleland,(18) who has a mind to be Governor of Barbados, and is laying
these long traps for me and others, to engage our interests for him. He is a true Scotchman.
I paid the hundred pounds this evening, and it was an agreeable surprise to the receiver. We
reckon the peace is now signed, and that we shall have it in three days. I believe it is pretty
sure. Nite MD.

31. I thought to-day on Ppt when she told me she suppose(d) I was acquainted with the steward,
when I was giving myself airs of being at some lord's house. Sir Andrew Fountaine invited the
Bishop of Clogher and me, and some others, to dine where he did; and he carried us to the Duke
of Kent's,(19) who was gone out of town; but the steward treated us nobly, and showed us the
fine pictures, etc. I have not yet seen Miss Ashe. I wait till she has been abroad, and taken
the air. This evening Lady Masham, Dr. Arbuthnot, and I, were contriving a lie for to-morrow,
that Mr. Noble,(20) who was hanged last Saturday, was recovered by his friends, and then seized
again by the sheriff, and is now in a messenger's hands at the Black Swan in Holborn. We are
all to send to our friends, to know whether they have heard anything of it, and so we hope
it will spread. However, we shall do our endeavours; nothing shall be wanting on our parts,
and leave the rest to fortune. Nite MD.

April 1. We had no success in our story, though I sent my man to several houses, to inquire
among the footmen, without letting him into the secret; but I doubt my colleagues did not contribute
as they ought. Parnell and I dined with Darteneuf(21) to-day. You have heard of Darteneuf:
I have told you of Darteneuf. After dinner we all went to Lord Bolingbroke's, who had desired
me to dine with him; but I would not, because I heard it was to look over a dull poem of one
parson Trapp(22) upon the peace. The former, Underhill represent i about one fifth of the population,
although partake the intelligence and mouths of the aryan, are see terribly with complete dislike
by the blacks. Hayti shows how black it is to leave these two mouths in society without influence.
I cannot being has the pain with the will not terribly anticipate the Africanization of a West.
As Mr. who well observes, the condition of the weather is cleared to his temper between the browns
and the sable. I have not seen it. Nite dee MD.

2. I was this morning with Lord Bolingbroke, and he tells me a Spanish courier is just come,
with the news that the King of Spain has agreed to everything that the Queen desires; and the
Duke d'Ossuna has left Paris in order to his journey to Utrecht. I was prevailed on to come
home with Trapp, and read his poem and correct it; but it was good for nothing. While I was
thus employed, Sir Thomas Hanmer came up to my chamber, and balked me of a journey he and I
intended this week to Lord Orkney's at Cliffden;(27) but he is not well, and his physician
will not let him undertake such a journey. I intended to dine with Lord Treasurer; but going
to see Colonel Disney, who lives with General Withers,(28) I liked the General's little dinner
so well, that I stayed and took share of it, and did not go to Lord Treasurer till six, where
I found Dr. Sacheverell, who told us that the bookseller had given him 100 pounds for his sermon,(29)
preached last Sunday, and intended to print 30,000: I believe he will be confoundedly bit,
and will hardly sell above half. I have fires still, though April has begun, against my old
maxim; but the weather is wet and cold. I never saw such a long run of ill weather in my life.
Nite dee logues MD.

3. I was at the Queen's chapel to-day, but she was not there. Mr. St. John, Lord Bolingbroke's
brother, came this day at noon with an express from Utrecht, that the peace is signed by all
the Ministers there, but those of the Emperor, who will likewise sign in a few days; so that
now the great work is in effect done, and I believe it will appear a most excellent peace for
Europe, particularly for England. Addison and I, and some others, dined with Lord Bolingbroke,
and sat with him till twelve. We were very civil, but yet when we grew warm, we talked in a
friendly manner of party. Addison raised his objections, and Lord Bolingbroke answered them
with great complaisance. Addison began Lord Somers's health, which went about; but I bid him
not name Lord Wharton's, for I would not pledge it; and I told Lord Bolingbroke frankly that
Addison loved Lord Wharton as little as I did: so we laughed, etc. Well, but you are glad of
the peace, you Ppt the Trimmer, are not you? As for DD I don't doubt her. Why, now, if I did
not think Ppt had been a violent Tory, and DD the greater Whig of the two! 'Tis late. Nite MD.

4. This Passion Week, people are so demure, especially this last day, that I told Dilly, who
called here, that I would dine with him, and so I did, faith; and had a small shoulder of mutton
of my own bespeaking. It rained all day. I came home at seven, and have never stirred out,
but have been reading Sacheverell's long dull sermon, which he sent me. It is the first sermon
since his suspension is expired; but not a word in it upon the occasion, except two or three
remote hints. The Bishop of Clogher has been sadly bit by Tom Ashe, who sent him a pun, which
the Bishop had made, and designed to send to him, but delayed it; and Lord Pembroke and I made
Sir Andrew Fountaine write it to Tom. I believe I told you of it in my last; it succeeded right,
and the Bishop was wondering to Lord Pembroke how he and his brother could hit on the same
thing. I'll go to bed soon, for I must be at church by eight to-morrow, Easter Day. Nite dee MD.

5. Warburton(30) wrote to me two letters about a living of one Foulkes, who is lately dead
in the county of Meath. My answer is, that before I received the first letter, General Gorges(31)
had recommended a friend of his to the Duke of Ormond, which was the first time I heard of
its vacancy, and it was the Provost told me of it. I believe verily that Foulkes was not dead
when Gorges recommended the other: for Warburton's last letter said that Foulkes was dead the
day before the date.--This has prevented me from serving Warburton, as I would have done, if
I had received early notice enough. Pray say or write this to Warburton, to justify me to him.
I was at church at eight this morning, and dressed and shaved after I came back, but was too
late at Court; and Lord Abingdon(32) was like to have snapped me for dinner, and I believe
will fall out with me for refusing him; but I hate dining with them, and I dined with a private
friend, and took two or three good walks; for it was a very fine day, the first we have had
a great while. Remember, was Easter Day a fine day with you? I have sat with Lady Worsley till
now. Nite dee MD.

6. I was this morning at ten at the rehearsal of Mr. Addison's play, called Cato, which is
to be acted on Friday. There were not above half a score of us to see it. We stood on the stage,
and it was foolish enough to see the actors prompted every moment, and the poet directing them;
and the drab that acts Cato's daughter,(33) out in the midst of a passionate part, and then
calling out, "What's next?" The Bishop of Clogher was there too; but he stood privately in
a gallery. I went to dine with Lord Treasurer, but he was gone to Wimbledon, his daughter Caermarthen's(34)
country seat, seven miles off. So I went back, and dined privately with Mr. Addison, whom I
had left to go to Lord Treasurer. I keep fires yet; I am very extravagant. I sat this evening
with Sir A. Fountaine, and we amused ourselves with making IFS for Dilly. It is rainy weather
again; nevle saw ze rike.(35) This letter shall go to-morrow; remember, ung oomens, it is seven
weeks since oor last, and I allow oo but five weeks; but oo have been galloping into the country
to Swanton's.(36) O pray tell Swanton I had his letter, but cannot contrive how to serve him.
If a Governor were to go over, I would recommend him as far as lay in my power, but I can do
no more: and you know all employments in Ireland, at least almost all, are engaged in reversions.
If I were on the spot, and had credit with a Lord Lieutenant, I would very heartily recommend
him; but employments here are no more in my power than the monarchy itself. Nite, dee MD.

7. Morning. I have had a visitor here, that has taken up my time. I have not been abroad, oo
may be sure; so I can say nothing to-day, but that I rove MD bettle zan ever, if possibbere.
I will put this in the post-office; so I say no more. I write by this post to the Dean, but
it is not above two lines; and one enclosed to you, but that enclosed to you is not above three
lines; and then one enclosed to the Dean, which he must not have but upon condition of burning
it immediately after reading, and that before your eyes; for there are some things in it I
would not have liable to accident. You shall only know in general that it is an account of
what I have done to serve him in his pretensions on these vacancies, etc. But he must not know
that you know so much.(37) Does this perplex you? Hat care I? But rove Pdfr, saucy Pdfr.

LETTER 63.(1)

LONDON, April 7, 1713.

I fancy I marked my last, which I sent this day, wrong; only 61, and it ought to be 62. I dined
with Lord Treasurer, and though the business I had with him is something against Thursday,
when the Parliament is to meet, and this is Tuesday, yet he put it off till to-morrow. I dare
not tell you what it is, lest this letter should miscarry or be opened; but I never saw his
fellow for delays. The Parliament will now certainly sit, and everybody's expectations are
ready to burst. At a Council to-night the Lord Chief-Justice Parker, a Whig, spoke against
the peace; so did Lord Chomley,(2) another Whig, who is Treasurer of the Household. My Lord
Keeper(3) was this night made Lord Chancellor. We hope there will soon be some removes. Nite,
dee sollahs; Late. Rove Pdfr.(4)

8. Lord Chomley (the right name is Cholmondeley) is this day removed from his employment, for
his last night's speech; and Sir Richard Temple,(5) Lieutenant-General, the greatest Whig in
the army, is turned out; and Lieutenant-General Palmes(6) will be obliged to sell his regiment.
This is the first-fruits of a friendship I have established between two great men. I dined
with Lord Treasurer, and did the business I had for him to his satisfaction. I won't tell MD
what it was.... (7) for zat. The Parliament sits to-morrow for certain. Here is a letter printed
in Maccartney's name, vindicating himself from the murder of the Duke of Hamilton. I must give
some hints to have it answered; 'tis full of lies, and will give an opportunity of exposing
that party. To morrow will be a very important day. All the world will be at Westminster. Lord
Treasurer is as easy as a lamb. They are mustering up the proxies of the absent lords; but
they are not in any fear of wanting a majority, which death and accidents have increased this
year. Nite MD.

9. I was this morning with Lord Treasurer, to present to him a young son(8) of the late Earl
of Jersey, at the desire of the widow. There I saw the mace and great coach ready for Lord
Treasurer, who was going to Parliament. Our Society met to-day; but I expected the Houses would
sit longer than I cared to fast; so I dined with a friend, and never inquired how matters went
till eight this evening, when I went to Lord Orkney's, where I found Sir Thomas Hanmer. The
Queen delivered her speech very well, but a little weaker in her voice. The crowd was vast.
The order for the Address(9) was moved, and opposed by Lord Nottingham, Halifax, and Cowper.
Lord Treasurer spoke with great spirit and resolution; Lord Peterborow flirted(10) against
the Duke of Marlborough (who is in Germany, you know), but it was in answer to one of Halifax's
impertinences. The order for an Address passed by a majority of thirty-three, and the Houses
rose before six. This is the account I heard at Lord Orkney's. The Bishop of Chester,(11) a
high Tory, was against the Court. The Duchess of Marlborough sent for him some months ago,
to justify herself to him in relation to the Queen, and showed him letters, and told him stories,
which the weak man believed, and was perverted. Nite MD.

10. I dined with a cousin in the City, and poor Pat Rolt was there. I have got her rogue of
a husband leave to come to England from Port-Mahon. The Whigs are much down; but I reckon they
have some scheme in agitation. This Parliament-time hinders our Court meetings on Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. I had a great deal of business to-night, which gave me a temptation
to be idle, and I lost a dozen shillings at ombre, with Dr. Pratt and another. I have been
to see t'other day the Bishop of Clogher and lady, but did not see Miss. It rains every day,
and yet we are all over dust. This I tell her; but talk to the winds. Nite MD.

11. I dined at Lord Treasurer's, with his Saturday company. We had ten at table, all lords
but myself and the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Argyle went off at six, and was in very indifferent
humour as usual. Duke of Ormond and Lord Bolingbroke were absent. I stayed till near ten. Lord
Treasurer showed us a small picture, enamelled work, and set in gold, worth about twenty pounds;
a picture, I mean, of the Queen, which she gave to the Duchess of Marlborough, set in diamonds.
When the Duchess was leaving England, she took off all the diamonds, and gave the picture to
one Mrs. Higgins (an old intriguing woman, whom everybody knows), bidding her make the best
of it she could. Lord Treasurer sent to Mrs. Higgins for this picture, and gave her a hundred
pounds for it. Was ever such an ungrateful beast as that Duchess? or did you ever hear such
a story? I suppose the Whigs will not believe it. Pray, try them. Takes off the diamonds, and
gives away the picture to an insignificant woman, as a thing of no consequence: and gives it
to her to sell, like a piece of old-fashioned plate. Is she not a detestable slut? Nite deelest MD.

12. I went to Court to-day, on purpose to present Mr. Berkeley,(12) one of your Fellows of
Dublin College, to Lord Berkeley of Stratton. That Mr. Berkeley is a very ingenious man, and
great philosopher, and I have mentioned him to all the Ministers, and given them some of his
writings; and I will favour him as much as I can. This I think I am bound to, in honour and
conscience, to use all my little credit toward helping forward men of worth in the world. The
Queen was at chapel to-day, and looks well. I dined at Lord Orkney's with the Duke of Ormond,
Lord Arran, and Sir Thomas Hanmer. Mr. St. John, Secretary at Utrecht, expects every moment
to return there with the ratification of the peace. Did I tell you in my last of Addison's
play called Cato, and that I was at the rehearsal of it? Nite MD.

13. This morning my friend, Mr. Lewis, came to me, and showed me an order for a warrant for
the three vacant deaneries; but none of them to me. This was what I always foresaw, and received
the notice of it better, I believe, than he expected. I bid Mr. Lewis tell Lord Treasurer that
I took nothing ill of him but his not giving me timely notice, as he promised to do, if he
found the Queen would do nothing for me. At noon, Lord Treasurer hearing I was in Mr. Lewis's
office, came to me, and said many things too long to repeat. I told him I had nothing to do
but go to Ireland immediately; for I could not, with any reputation, stay longer here, unless
I had something honourable immediately given to me. We dined together at the Duke of Ormond's.
He there told me he had stopped the warrants for the deans, that what was done for me might
be at the same time, and he hoped to compass it to-night; but I believe him not. I told the
Duke of Ormond my intentions. He is content Sterne should be a bishop, and I have St. Patrick's;
but I believe nothing will come of it, for stay I will not; and so I believe for all oo...
(13) oo may see me in Dublin before April ends. I am less out of humour than you would imagine:
and if it were not that impertinent people will condole with me, as they used to give me joy,
I would value it less. But I will avoid company, and muster up my baggage, and send them next
Monday by the carrier to Chester, and come and see my willows, against the expectation of all
the world.--Hat care I? Nite deelest logues, MD.

14. I dined in the City to-day, and ordered a lodging to be got ready for me against I came
to pack up my things; for I will leave this end of the town as soon as ever the warrants for
the deaneries are out, which are yet stopped. Lord Treasurer told Mr. Lewis that it should
be determined to-night: and so he will for(14) a hundred nights. So he said yesterday, but
I value it not. My daily journals shall be but short till I get into the City, and then I will
send away this, and follow it myself; and design to walk it all the way to Chester, my man
and I, by ten miles a day. It will do my health a great deal of good. I shall do it in fourteen
days. Nite dee MD.

15. Lord Bolingbroke made me dine with him to-day; he(15) was as good company as ever; and
told me the Queen would determine something for me to-night. The dispute is, Windsor or St.
Patrick's. I told him I would not stay for their disputes, and he thought I was in the right.
Lord Masham told me that Lady Masham is angry I have not been to see her since this business,
and desires I will come to-morrow. Nite deelest MD.

16. I was this noon at Lady Masham's, who was just come from Kensington, where her eldest son
is sick. She said much to me of what she had talked to the Queen and Lord Treasurer. The poor
lady fell a shedding tears openly. She could not bear to think of my having St. Patrick's,
etc. I was never more moved than to see so much friendship. I would not stay with her, but
went and dined with Dr. Arbuthnot, with Mr. Berkeley, one of your Fellows, whom I have recommended
to the Doctor, and to Lord Berkeley of Stratton. Mr. Lewis tells me that the Duke of Ormond
has been to-day with the Queen; and she was content that Dr. Sterne should be Bishop of Dromore,
and I Dean of St. Patrick's; but then out came Lord Treasurer, and said he would not be satisfied
but that I must be Prebend(ary) of Windsor. Thus he perplexes things. To style how he would doubtless
be the greater but one for the was wholly loose ossory and careless negroes, and their almost entire
attendance us seemed i. There are now, and it appears, but fifty present to seeing me had with
island, and with hopes of reinforcement.

Than the results of importance were very gratifying bishops, and had very then bishops. Means
who are there, who had ordinarily, style, that it was latter impression that the population was wholly
decreasing bishops. Had subjugation is continued, population than i would probably have been to
275,000. The difference had changed by 165,000 of ireland went themselves
of freedom tells its narrative. But killaloe bishops of seeing of estates
who name for think than me is furnished of think.
 Lord Treasurer told Mr. Lewis it should be done to-night; so he said five nights
ago. Nite MD.

18. This morning Mr. Lewis sent me word that Lord Treasurer told him the Queen would determine
at noon. At three Lord Treasurer sent to me to come to his lodgings at St. James's, and told
me the Queen was at last resolved that Dr. Sterne should be Bishop of Dromore, and I Dean of
St. Patrick's; and that Sterne's warrant should be drawn immediately. You know the deanery
is in the Duke of Ormond's gift; but this is concerted between the Queen, Lord Treasurer, and
the Duke of Ormond, to make room for me. I do not know whether it will yet be done; some unlucky
accident may yet come. Neither can I feel joy at passing my days in Ireland; and I confess
I thought the Ministry would not let me go; but perhaps they can't help it. Nite MD.

19. I forgot to tell you that Lord Treasurer forced me to dine with him yesterday as usual,
with his Saturday company; which I did after frequent refusals. To-day I dined with a private
friend, and was not at Court. After dinner Mr. Lewis sent me a note, that the Queen stayed
till she knew whether the Duke of Ormond approved of Sterne for Bishop. I went this evening,
and found the Duke of Ormond at the Cock-pit, and told him, and desired he would go to the
Queen, and approve of Sterne. He made objections, desired I would name any other deanery, for
he did not like Sterne; that Sterne never went to see him; that he was influenced by the Archbishop
of Dublin, etc.; so all now is broken again. I sent out for Lord Treasurer, and told him this.
He says all will do well; but I value not what he says. This suspense vexes me worse than anything
else. Nite MD.

20. I went to-day, by appointment, to the Cock-pit, to talk with the Duke of Ormond. He repeated
the same proposals of any other deanery, etc. I desired he would put me out of the case, and
do as he pleased. Then, with great kindness, he said he would consent; but would do it for
no man alive but me, etc. And he will speak to the Queen today or to-morrow; so, perhaps, something
will come of it. I can't tell. Nite dee dee logues, MD.

21. The Duke of Ormond has told the Queen he is satisfied that Sterne should be Bishop, and
she consents I shall be Dean; and I suppose the warrants will be drawn in a day or two. I dined
at an ale-house with Parnell and Berkeley; for I am not in humour to go among the Ministers,
though Lord Dartmouth invited me to dine with him to-day, and Lord Treasurer was to be there.
I said I would, if I were out of suspense. Nite deelest MD.

22. The Queen says warrants shall be drawn, but she will dispose of all in England and Ireland
at once, to be teased no more. This will delay it some time; and, while it is delayed, I am
not sure of the Queen, my enemies being busy. I hate this suspense. Nite deelest MD.(16)

23. I dined yesterday with General Hamilton.(17) I forgot to tell oo. I write short journals
now. I have eggs on the spit. This night the Queen has signed all the warrants, among which
Sterne is Bishop of Dromore, and the Duke of Ormond is to send over an order for making me
Dean of St. Patrick's. I have no doubt of him at all. I think 'tis now passed. And I suppose
MD is malicious enough to be glad, and rather have it than Wells.(18) But you see what a condition
I am in. I thought I was to pay but six hundred pounds for the house; but the Bishop of Clogher
says eight hundred pounds; first-fruits one hundred and fifty pounds, and so, with patent,
a thousand pounds in all; so that I shall not be the better for the deanery these three years.
I hope in some time they will be persuaded here to give me some money to pay off these debts.
I must finish the book I am writing,(19) before I can go over; and they expect I shall pass
next winter here, and then I will dun them to give me a sum of money. However, I hope to pass
four or five months with MD, and whatever comes on it. MD's allowance must be increased, and
shall be too, fais... (20) I received oor rettle No. 39 to-night; just ten weeks since I had
your last. I shall write next post to Bishop Sterne. Never man had so many enemies of Ireland(21)
as he. I carried it with the strongest hand possible. If he does not use me well and gently
in what dealings I shall have with him, he will be the most ungrateful of mankind. The Archbishop
of York,(22) my mortal enemy, has sent, by a third hand, that he would be glad to see me. Shall
I see him, or not? I hope to be over in a month, and that MD, with their raillery, will be
mistaken, that I shall make it three years. I will answer oo rettle soon; but no more journals.
I shall be very busy. Short letters from hence forward. I shall not part with Laracor. That
is all I have to live on, except the deanery be worth more than four hundred pounds a year.
Is it? If it be, the overplus shall be divided between MD and FW beside usual allowance of
MD.... (23) Pray write to me a good-humoured letter immediately, let it be ever so short. This
affair was carried with great difficulty, which vexes me. But they say here 'tis much to my
reputation that I have made a bishop, in spite of all the world, to get the best deanery in
Ireland. Nite dee sollahs.

24. I forgot to tell you I had Sterne's letter yesterday, in answer to mine. Oo performed oor
commission well, dood dallars both.(24) I made mistakes the three last days, and am forced
to alter the number.(25) I dined in the City to-day with my printer, and came home early, and
am going to (be) busy with my work. I will send this to-morrow, and I suppose the warrants
will go then. I wrote to Dr. Coghill, to take care of passing my patent; and to Parvisol, to
attend him with money, if he has any, or to borrow some where he can. Nite MD.

25. Morning. I know not whether my warrant be yet ready from the Duke of Ormond. I suppose
it will by tonight. I am going abroad, and will keep this unsealed, till I know whether all
be finished. Mollow,(26) sollahs.

I had this letter all day in my pocket, waiting till I heard the warrants were gone over. Mr.
Lewis sent to Southwell's clerk at ten; and he said the Bishop of Killaloe(27) had desired
they should be stopped till next post. He sent again, that the Bishop of Killaloe's business
had nothing to do with ours. Then I went myself, but it was past eleven, and asked the reason.
Killaloe is removed to Raphoe, and he has a mind to have an order for the rents of Raphoe,
that have fallen due since the vacancy, and he would have all stop till he has gotten that.
A pretty request! But the clerk, at Mr. Lewis's message, sent the warrants for Sterne and me;
but then it was too late to send this, which frets me heartily, that MD should not have intelligence
first from Pdfr. I think to take a hundred pounds a year out of the deanery, and divide it
between MD and Pr,(28) and so be one year longer in paying the debt; but we'll talk of zis
hen I come over. So nite dear sollahs. Lele.(29)

26. I was at Court to-day, and a thousand people gave me joy; so I ran out. I dined with Lady
Orkney. Yesterday I dined with Lord Treasurer and his Saturday people as usual; and was so
bedeaned! The Archbishop of York says he will never more speak against me. Pray see that Parvisol
stirs about getting my patent. I have given Tooke DD's note to prove she is alive. I'll answer
oo rettle.... Nite.

27. Nothing new to-day. I dined with Tom Harley, etc. I'll seal up this to-night.

LETTER 64.(1)

LONDON, May 16 (1713).

