"No," answered Holy Russia, who kept silent for a thousand years. The ideal of the great man
is the fast ideal of the childhood of mankind, of the youthful Pagan world. We are grown up
in the Christian spirit; we can no longer live in the childish illusions and dreams of great
men. We see them as they are. There has never existed and does not yet exist a great man. No
one great man ever existed.

On this point Tolstoi and the Holy Synod were in agreement with each other and with the common
spirit of the Russian people. They all agreed with their whole heart in the denial of the Greco-Roman
worship of great men, which worship was everywhere revived in modern Europe in poetry, philosophy,
politics, art and even in theology. For eighteen hundred years Western Europe was the spokesman
of the Christian world and Russia kept silent. When, after eighteen hundred years, Russia came
to the world, her answer was a decisive No. But that was not all she had to say. She had also
to say a decisive Yes.

*PANHUMANISM.*

No and Yes. There is in the Slav religious conscience a No and a Yes.

No--for a great man; Yes--for a saintly man.

No--for pride; Yes--for humility.

No--for individualism; Yes--for panhumanism.

No--for longing after pleasure; Yes--for longing after suffering.

History has proved that a great man is impossible and, even more, undesirable, and that a saintly
man is both possible and desirable. It is proved also that a so-called great man meant a great
danger for mankind; a saintly man never could be dangerous. We do not need great men at all,
we need good and saintly men. We ought not to seek after greatness, but after goodness and
saintliness. Greatness is no real virtue, but goodness and saintliness are virtues. Greatness
is only an illusion, but goodness and saintliness are realities. Christianity came to impress
these realities on the human conscience and to sweep illusions away.

The whole history of Christianity is a continual struggle between realities and illusions.
All the wars between Christians and pagans, and between Christians themselves, from the time
of Christ until our time, had always the same meaning--a struggle between the Christian realities
of goodness and saintliness and the pagan illusions of greatness. The present War has the same
meaning as all the wars since Christ came until Bismarck. This war was prophesied by Dostojevsky
forty years ago. Dostoievsky was the only contemporary man towards whom Nietzsche felt respect
and even fear because of his deep thought and clairvoyance. With his genial insight into human
nature, Dostojevsky saw clearly the inevitable conflict of the different camps of Europe, whose
apparent and hypocritical peace was only a busy preparation for conflict. "Everything will
be pulled down," he said, "especially European pride." He had also a vision of what will come
after this great conflict. "Christ," he said, "nothing else but Christ Himself will come in
the form of panhuman brotherhood and panhuman love."

YOUR SINS ARE MY SINS.

Love the sinner as well! Do not fly away from the sinners, but go to them without fear. After
all--whoever you may be--you are not much better than they are. Try to love the sinners; you
will see that it is easier to love those whom you despise than those whom you envy. The old
Zosim (from the "Brothers Caramazov") said, "Brothers, don't be afraid of the sins of a sinner;
but love a sinner also--that is the record of love upon earth." I know you love St. Peter and
St. John, but could you love the sinner Zacchæeus? You can love the good Samaritan but love,
please, the prodigal son also! You love Christ, I am sure; but what about Judas, the seller
of Christ? He repented, poor human creature. Why don't you love him? Dostojevsky--like Tolstoi
and Gogol--emphasised two things: first, there is no great man; secondly, there is no worthless
man. He described the blackest crimes and the deepest fall and showed that the authors of such
crimes are men just as other men, with much good hidden under their sins. Servants and vagabonds,
idiots and drunkards, the dirty katorzniki from the Serbian prisons--all those people are God's
sons and daughters, with souls full of fears and hopes, of repentance and longings after good
and justice.

Between saintliness and vice there is a bridge, not an abyss. The saintliest and the meanest
men have still common ground for brotherhood. Your sins are my sins, my sins are your sins.
That is the starting-point for a practical and lucid Christianity. I cannot be clean as long
as you are not clean. I cannot be happy as long as you are unhappy. I cannot enter Heaven as
long as you are in Hell. What does that mean? It means that you and I are blended together
for eternity, and that your effort to separate yourselves from me is disastrous for you and
for me. As long as you look to the greatest sinner in the world and say: "God, I thank thee
that I am not as that man," you are far from Christ and the Kingdom of God. God wants not one
good man only, He wants a Kingdom of good men. If ninety-nine of us are good and saintly but
one of our brothers is far from our solace and support, in sin and darkness, be sure God is
not among us ninety-nine, but He has gone to find our brother whom we have lost and forgotten.
Will you follow him or will you stand self-sufficient? Never has there existed in the world
such a social power binding man to man and commanding each to take and bear the other's sorrows
as Christianity did. Your sins are my sins, my sins are your sins. Such a conception of the
Christian religion had Tolstoi in common with Dostojevsky and Gogol, with the Holy Synod, with
the popular religious conscience of millions and millions of the living and the dead, in the
orthodox world, and with all the jurodivi, the fools for Christ's sake. That is the religious
spirit of the best of the Slavs.

CHRISTIANITY AND CIVILISATION.

The following is the Slav point of view: Christianity came into the world, not in order to
inaugurate a new civilisation, but to infuse a new religious spirit, to clear and purify the
human conscience. A perfect Christian spirit can exist quite outside civilisation as well as
in the midst of the most complicated civilisation. A Christian negro, in his nudity, picking
up dates under a palm tree, can be as good and saintly a man as any business man from the Strand
in London or from the Fifth Avenue in New York. And, on the contrary, the most civilised men,
like Bismarck and Nietzsche can be of a much more anti-Christian spirit than any primitive
human creature in Central Africa or Siberia. Many civilisations have been created without Christianity.
You cannot say that Christian London is a more perfect and beautiful city than Pagan Rome or
Mohammedan Cordova were. But you may perhaps say that the spirit of London is more sublime
and humane, more good and saintly, than the spirit of Rome and Cordova. Well, it is the spirit
which regards Christianity, and nothing else. Civilisation is only an occasion for Christianity
to prove its spirit. It is an occasion of suffering, and also of corruption. In both cases
Christianity has to be tested. Christianity has to fight against a Pagan civilisation as well
as a Pagan barbarism. It is sometimes harder for the Christian spirit to fight against the
first than against the second form of Paganism. It was easier for the Christian mission to
Christianise barbarous Africa than cultivated Rome. And imagine how much it will cost till
Bismarckian and Nietzschean Germany "changes her spirit" as Sienkiewicz foretold.

