"And now, my Emmy, the way is clear to us; Providence has sent me this, that I may right you,
dearest: and it will be wise in us to say nothing of our plans. Avoid inquiries--for I did
not say conceal or falsify facts: but, while none but you, love, heed of my departure, and
while I go for our sakes alone, we need not invite disappointment by open-mouthed publicity.
To those who love me, Emmy, I am frank and free; but with those who love us not, there is a
wisdom and a justice in concealment. They do not deserve confidence, who will not extend to
us their sympathy. None but yourself must know whither I am bound; and, after some little search
for curiosity's sake, when a week is past and gone, no soul will care for me of those at home.
With you, I will manage to communicate by post, directing my letters to Mrs. Sainsbury, at
Oxton: I will prepare her for it. She knows my love for you, and how they try to thwart us;
but even she, however trustworthy, need not be told my destination yet awhile, until 'India'
appears upon the post-mark. How glad will you be, dearest one, how happy in our secret--to
read my heart's own thoughts, when I am far away--far away, clearing up mine Emmy's cares,
and telling her how blessed I feel in ministering to her happiness!"

Such was the substance of their talk, while counting out the pocket-book.

Charles's remaining preparations were simple enough, now his purse was flush of money: he resolved
upon taking from his home no luggage whatever: preferring to order down, from an outfitting
house in London, a regular kit of cadet's necessaries, to wait for him at the Europe Hotel,
Plymouth, on a certain day in the ensuing week. So that, burdened only with his Emmy's miniature,
and his pocket-book of bank notes, he might depart quietly some evening, get to Plymouth in
a prëconcerted way, by chaise or coach, before the morrow morning; thence, a boat to meet the
ship off-shore, and then--hey, for the Indies!

It was as well-devised a scheme as could possibly be planned; though its secresy, especially
with a mother in the case, may be a moot point as to the abstract moral thereof: nevertheless,
concretely, the only heart his so mysterious absence would have pained, was made aware of all:
then, again, secresy had been the atmosphere of his daily life, the breath of his education;
and he too sorely knew his mother would rejoice at the departure, and Julian, too--all the
more certainly, as both brothers were now rivals professed for the hand of Emily Warren: as
to the general, he might, or he might not, smoke an extra cheroot in the excitement of his
wonder; and if he cared about it anyways more tragically than tobacco might betray, Emily knew
how to comfort him.

With respect to other arrangements, Emmy furnished Charles with letters to certain useful people
at Madras, and in particular to the "somebody" who looked after Mrs. Mackie: so, the mystery
was easy of access, and he doubted not of overcoming, on the spot, every unseen difficulty.
The plan of leaving all luggage behind, a capital idea, would enable him to go forth freely
and unshackled, with an ordinary air, in hat and great-coat, as for an evening's walk; and
was quite in keeping with the natural reserve of his whole character--a bad habit of secresy,
which he probably inherited from his father, the lieutenant of old times. And yet, for all
the wisdom, and mystery, and shrewd settling of the plan, its accomplishment was as nearly
as possible most fatally defeated.

The important evening arrived; for the Indiaman--it was our old friend Sir William Elphinston--would
be off Plymouth, next morning: the goods had been, for a day or two, safely deposited at the
Europe, as per invoice, all paid: the lovers, in this last, this happiest, yet by far the saddest
of their stolen interviews, had exchanged vows and kisses, and upon the beach, beneath those
friendly cliffs, had commended one another to their Father in heaven. They had returned to
the unsocial circle of home; all was fixed; the clock struck nine: and Charles, accidentally
squeezing Emily's hand, rose to leave the tea-table.

"Where are you going, Mr. Charles?"

"I am going out, Julian."

"Thank you, sir! I knew that, but whither? General, I say, here's Charles going to serenade
somebody by moonlight."

The brandy-sodden parent, scarcely conscious, said something about his infernal majesty; and,
"What then?--let him go, can't you?"

"Well, Julian dear, perhaps your brother will not mind your going with him; particularly as
Emily stays at home with me."

This Mrs. Tracy spoke archly, intended as a hint to induce Julian to remain: but he had other
thoughts--and simply said, in an ill-tempered tone of voice, "Done, Charles."

It was a dilemma for our escaping hero; but glancing a last look at Emily, he departed, and
walked on some way as quietly as might be with Julian by his side: thinking, perhaps, he would
soon be tired; and suffering him to fancy, if he would, that Charles was bound either on some
amorous pilgrimage, or some charitable mission. But they left Burleigh behind them--and got
upon the common--and passed it by, far out of sight and out of hearing--and were skirting the
high banks of the darkly-flowing Mullet--and still there was Julian sullenly beside him. In
vain Charles had tried, by many gentle words, to draw him into common conversation: Julian
would not speak, or only gave utterance to some hinted phrase of insult: his brow was even
darker than usual, and night was coming on apace, and he still tramped steadily along beside
his brother, digging his sturdy stick into the clay, for very spite's sake. At length, as they
yet walked along the river's side in that unfrequented place, Julian said, on a sudden, in
a low strange tone, as if keeping down some rising rage within him,

"Mr. Charles, you love Emily Warren."

"Well, Julian, and who can help loving her?"

It was innocently said; but still a maddening answer, for he loved her too.

"And, sirrah," the brother hoarsely added, "she--she does not--does not--hate you, sir, as I do."

"My good Julian, pray do not be so violent; I cannot help it if the dear girl loves me."

"But I can, though!" roared Julian, with an oath, and lifted up his stick--it was nearer like
a club--to strike his brother.

"Julian, Julian, what are you about? Good Heavens! you would not--you dare not--give over--unhand
me, brother; what have I done, that you should strike me? Oh! leave me--leave me--pray."

"Leave you? I will leave you!" the villain almost shouted, and smote him to the ground with
his lead-loaded stick. It was a blow that must have killed him, but for the interposing hat,
now battered down upon his bleeding head. Charles, at length thoroughly aroused, though his
foe must be a brother, struggled with unusual strength in self-preserving instinct, wrested
the club from Julian's hand, and stood on the defensive.

Julian was staggered: and, after a moment's irresolution, drawing a pistol from his pocket,
said, in a terribly calm voice,

"Now, sir! I have looked for such a meeting many days--alone, by night, with you! I would not
willingly draw trigger, for the noise might bring down other folks upon us, out of Oxton yonder:
but, drop that stick, or I fire."

Charles was noble enough, without another word, to fling the club into the river: it was not
fear of harm, but fear of sin, that made him trust himself defenceless to a brother, a twin-brother,
in the dark: he could not be so base, a murderer, a fratricide! Oh! most unhallowed thought!
Save him from this crime, good God! Then, instantaneously reflecting, and believing he decided
for the best, when he saw the ruffian glaring on him with exulting looks, as upon an unarmed
rival at his mercy, with no man near to stay the deed, and none but God to see it, Charles
resolved to seek safety from so terrible a death in flight.

Oxton was within one mile; and, clearly, this was not like flying from danger as a coward,
but fleeing from attempted crime, as a brother and a Christian. Julian snatched at him to catch
him as he passed: and, failing in this, rushed after him. It was a race for life! and they
went like the wind, for two hundred yards, along that muddy high-banked walk.

Suddenly, Charles slipped upon the clay, that he fell; and Julian, with a savage howl, leapt
upon him heavily.

Poor youth, he knew that death was nigh, and only uttered, "God forgive you, brother! oh, spare
me--or, if not me, spare yourself--Julian, Julian!"

But the monster was determined. Exerting the whole force of his herculean frame, he seized
his scarce-resisting victim as he lay, and, lifting him up like a child, flung his own twin-brother
head foremost into that darkly-flowing current!

There was one piercing cry--a splash--a struggle; and again nothing broke upon the silent night,
but the murmur of that swingeing tide, as the Mullet hurried eddying to the sea.

Julian listened a minute or two, flung some stones at random into the river, and then hastily
ran back to Burleigh, feeling like a Cain.

CHAPTER XII.

THE ESCAPE.

BUT the overruling hand of Him whose aid that victim had invoked, was now stretched forth to
save! and the strong-flowing tide, that ran too rapidly for Charles to sink in it, was commissioned
from on High to carry him into an angle of that tortuous stream, where he clung by instinct
to the bushes. Silence was his wisdom, while the murderer was near: and so long as Julian's
footsteps echoed on the banks, Charles stirred not, spoke not, but only silently thanked God
for his wonderful deliverance. However, the footsteps quickly died away, though heard far off
clattering amid the still and listening night; and Charles, thankfully, no less than cautiously,
drew himself out of the stream, very little harmed beyond a drenching: for the waters had recovered
him at once from the effects of that desperate blow.

It was with a sense of exultation, freedom, independence, that he now hastened scatheless on
his way; dripping garments mattered nothing, nor mud, nor the loss of his demolished hat: the
pocket-book was safe, and Emmy's portrait, (how he kissed it, then!) and luckily a travelling
cap was in his great-coat pocket: so with a most buoyant feeling of animal delight, as well
as of religious gratitude, he sped merrily once more upon his secret expedition. Thank Heaven!
Emmy could not know the peril he had past: and wretched Julian would now have dreadful reason
of his own for this mysterious absence: and it was a pleasant thing to trudge along so freely
in the starlight, on the private embassy of love. Happy Charles! I know not if ever more exhilarated
feelings blessed the youth; they made him trip along the silent road, in a gush of joyfulness,
at the rate of some six miles an hour; I know not if ever such delicious thoughts of Emily's
attachment, and those gorgeous mysteries in India, of adventure, enterprise, escape, had heretofore
caused his heart to bound so lightsomely within him, like some elastic spring. I know not if
ever strong reliance upon Providential care, more earnest prayers, praises, intercessions (for
poor Julian, too,) were offered on the altar of his soul. Happy Charles!

So he went on and on--long past Oxton, and Eyemouth, and Surbiton, and over the ferry, and
through the sleeping turnpikes, and past the bridge, and along the broad high-road, until gray
of morning's dawn revealed the suburbs of Plymouth.

Of course he missed the mail by which he intended to have gone--for Julian's dread act delayed him.

Long before his journey's end, his clothes were thoroughly dried, and violent exercise had
shaken off all possible rheumatic consequence of that fearful plunge beneath the waters: five-and-twenty
miles in four hours and three-quarters, is a tolerable recipe for those who have tumbled into
rivers. We must recollect that he had gone as quick as he could, for fear of being late, now
the coach had passed. At a little country inn, he brushed, and washed, and made toilet as well
as he was able, took a glass of good Cognac, both hot and strong; and felt more of a man than ever.

Then, having loitered awhile, and well-remembered Emily in his prayers, at about eight in the
morning he presented himself among his luggage at the Europe in gentlemanly trim, and soon
got all on board the pilot boat, to meet the Indiaman just outside the breakwater. We may safely
leave him there, happy, hopeful Charles! Sanguine for the future, exulting in the present,
and thankful for the past: already has he poured out all his joys before that Friend who loves
her too, and invoked His blessing on a scheme so well designed, so providentially accomplished.

I had almost forgotten Julian: wretched, hardened man, and how fared he? The moment he had
flung his brother into that dark stream, and the waters closed above him greedily that he was
gone--gone for ever, he first threw in stones to make a noise like life upon the stream, but
that cheatery was only for an instant: he was alone--a murderer, alone! the horrors of silence,
solitude, and guilt, seized upon him like three furies: so his quick retreating walk became
a running; and the running soon was wild and swift for fear; and ever as he ran, that piercing
scream came upon the wind behind, and hooted him: his head swam, his eyes saw terrible sights,
his ears heard terrible sounds--and he scoured into quiet, sleeping Burleigh like a madman.
However, by some strange good luck, not even did the slumbering watchman see him: so he got
in-doors as usual with the latch-key (it was not the first time he had been out at night),
crept up quietly, and hid himself in his own chamber.

And how did he spend those hours of guilty solitude? in terrors? in remorse? in misery? Not
he: Julian was too wise to sit and think, and in the dark too; but he lit both reading lamps
to keep away the gloom, and smoked and drank till morning's dawn to stupify his conscience.

Then, to make it seem all right, he went down to breakfast as usual, though any thing but sober,
and met unflinchingly his mother's natural question--

"Good morning, Julian--where's Charles?"

"How should I know, mother; isn't he up yet?"

"No, my dear; and what is more, I doubt if he came home last night."

"Hollo, Master Charles! pretty doings these, Mr. Sabbath-teacher! so he slept out, eh, mother?"

"I don't know--but where did you leave him, Julian?"

"Who! I? did I go out with him? Oh! yes, now I recollect: let's see, we strolled together midway
to Oxton, and, as he was going somewhat further, there I left him?"

How true the words, and yet how terribly false their meaning!

"Dear me, that's very odd--isn't it, general?"

"Not at all, ma'am--not at all; leave the lad alone, he'll be back by dinner-time: I didn't
think the boy had so much spirit."

Emily, to whom the general's hint was Greek, looked up cheerfully and in her own glad mind
chuckled at her Charles's bold adventure.

But the day passed, off, and they sent out men to seek for him: and another--and all Burleigh
was a-stir: and another--and the coast-guards from Lyme to Plymouth Sound searched every hole
and corner: and another--when his mother wept five minutes: and another--when the wonder was
forgotten.

However, they did not put on mourning for the truant: he might turn up yet: perhaps he was
at Oxford.

Emily had not much to do in comforting the general for his dear son's loss; it clearly was
a gain to him, and he felt far freer than when wisdom's eye was on him. Charles had been too
keen for father, mother, and brother; too good, too amiable: he saw their ill, condemned it
by his life, and showed their dark too black against his brightness. The unnatural deficiency
of mother's love had not been overrated: Julian had all her heart; and she felt only obliged
to the decamping Charles for leaving Emily so free and clear to his delightful brother. She
never thought him dead: death was a repulsive notion at all times to her: no doubt he would
turn up again some day. And Julian joked with her about that musty proverb "a bad penny."

As to our dear heroine, she never felt so happy in all her life before as now, even when her
Charles had been beside her; for within a day of his departure he had written her a note full
of affection, hope, and gladness; assuring her of his health, and wealth, and safe arrival
on board the Indiaman. The noble-hearted youth never said one single word about his brother's
crime: but he did warn his Emmy to keep close beside the general. This note she got through
Mrs. Sainsbury; that invalid lady at Oxton, who never troubled herself to ask or hear one word
beyond her own little world--a certain physic-corner cupboard.

And thou--poor miserable man--thou fratricide in mind--and to thy best belief in act, how drags
on now the burden of thy life? For a day or two, spirits and segars muddled his brain, and
so kept thoughts away: but within a while they came on him too piercingly, and Julian writhed
beneath those scorpion stings of hot and keen remorse: and when the coast-guards dragged the
Mullet, how that caitiff trembled! and when nothing could be found, how he wondered fearingly!
The only thing the wretched man could do, was to loiter, day after day, and all day long, upon
the same high path which skirts the tortuous stream. Fascinated there by hideous recollections,
he could not leave the spot for hours: and his soft-headed, romantic mother, noticing these
deep abstractions, blessed him--for her Julian was now in love with Emily.

CHAPTER XIII.

NEWS OF CHARLES.

AY--in love with Emily! Fiercely now did Julian pour his thoughts that way; if only hoping
to forget murder in another strong excitement. Julian listened to his mother's counsels; and
that silly, cheated woman playfully would lean upon his arm, like a huge, coy confidante, and
fill his greedy ears (that heard her gladly for very holiday's sake from fearful apprehensions),
with lover's hopes, lover's themes, his Emily's perfection. Delighted mother--how proud and
pleased was she! quite in her own element, fanning dear Julian's most sentimental flame, and
scheming for him interviews with Emily.

It required all her skill--for the girl clung closely to her guardian: he, unconscious Argus,
never tired of her company; and she, remembering dear Charles's hint, and dreading to be left
alone with Julian, would persist to sit day after day at her books, music, or needle-work in
the study, charming General Tracy by her pretty Hindoo songs. With him she walked out, and
with him she came in; she would read to him for hours, whether he snored or listened; and,
really, both mother and son were several long weeks before their scheming could come to any
thing. A tête-à-tête between Julian and Emily appeared as impossible to manage, as collision
between Jupiter and Vesta.

However, after some six weeks of this sort of mining and counter-mining (for Emily divined
their wishes), all on a sudden one morning the general received a letter that demanded his
immediate presence for a day or two in town; something about prize-money at Puttymuddyfudgepoor.
Emily was too high-spirited, too delicate in mind, to tell her guardian of fears which never
might be realized; and so, with some forebodings, but a cheerful trust, too, in a Providence
above her, she saw the general off without a word, though not without a tear; he too, that
stern, close man, was moved: it was strange to see them love each other so.

The moment he was gone, she discreetly kept her chamber for the day, on plea of sickness; she
had cried very heartily to see him leave her--he had never yet left her once since she could
recollect--and thus she really had a head-ache, and a bad one.

Julian Tracy gave such a start, that he knocked off a cheffonier of rare china and glass standing
at his elbow; and the smash of mandarins and porcelain gods would have been enough, at any
other time, to have driven his mother crazy.

"Charles alive?" shouted he.

"Yes, Julian--why not? You saw him off, you know: cannot you remember?"

Now to that guilty wretch's mind the fearful notion instantaneously occurred, that Emily Warren
was in some strange, wild way bantering him; she knew his dreadful secret--"he had seen him
off." He trembled like an aspen as she looked on him.

"Oh yes, he remembered, certainly; but--but where was her letter?"

"Never mind that, Julian; you surely would not read another person's letters, Monsieur le Chevalier
Bayard?"

Emily was as gay at heart that morning as a sky-lark, and her innocent pleasantry proved her
strongest shield. Julian dared not ask to see the letter--scarcely dared to hope she had one,
and yet did not know what to think. As to any love scene now, it was quite out of the question,
notwithstanding all his mother's hints and management; a new exciting thought entirely filled
him: was he a Cain, a fratricide, or not? was Charles alive after all? And, for once in his
life, Julian had some repentant feelings; for thrilling hope was nigh to cheer his gloom.

It really seemed as if Emily, sweet innocent, could read his inmost thoughts. "At any rate,"
observed she, playfully, "Bayard may take the postman's privilege, and see the outside."

With that, she produced the ship-letter that had put her in such spirits, legibly dated some
twenty-two days ago. Yes, Charles's hand, sure enough! Julian could swear to it among a thousand.
And he fainted dead away.

What an astonishing event! how Mrs. Tracy praised her noble-spirited boy! How the bells rang!
and hot water, and cold water, and salts, and rubbings, and eau de Cologne, and all manner
of delicate attentions, long sustained, at length contributed to Julian's restoration. Moreover,
even Emily was agreeably surprised; she had never seen him in so amiable a light before; this
was all feeling, all affection for his brother--her dear--dear Charles. And when Mrs. Tracy
heard what Emily said of Julian's feeling heart, she became positively triumphant; not half
so much at Charles's safety, and all that, as at Julian's burst of feeling. She was quite right,
after all; he was worthy to be her favourite, and she felt both flattered and obliged to him
for fainting dead away. "Yes--yes, my dear Miss Warren, depend upon it Julian has fine feelings,
and a good heart." And Emily began to condemn both Charles and herself for lack of charity,
and to think so too.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE TETE-A-TETE.

NO sooner had "dear Julian" recovered, which he really had not quite accomplished until the
day had begun to wear away (so great a shock had that intelligence of Charles been to his guilty
mind), than the gratified and prudent mother fancied this a famous opportunity to leave the
young couple to themselves. It was after dinner, when they had retired to the drawing-room;
and I will say that Emily had never seemed so favourably disposed towards that rough, but generous,
heart before. So then, on some significant pretence, well satisfied her favourite was himself
again, as bold, and black, and boisterous as ever, the masculine mother kissed her hand to
them, as a fat fairy might be supposed to do, and operatically tripped away, coyly bidding
Emily "take care of Julian till she should come back again."

The momentary gleam of good which glanced across that bad man's heart has faded away hours
ago; his repentant thoughts had been occasioned more from the sudden relief he experienced
at running now no risks for having murdered, than for any better feeling towards his brother,
or any humbler notions of himself. Nay, a strong rëaction occurred in his ideas the moment
he had seen his brother's writing; and when he fainted, he fainted from the struggle in his
mind of manifold exciting causes, such as these:--hatred, jealousy, what he called love, though
a lower name befitted it, and vexation that his brother was--not dead. Oh mother, mother! if
your poor weak head had but been wise enough to read that heart, would you still have loved
it as you do? Alas--it is a deep lesson in human nature this--she would! for Mrs. General Tracy
was one of those obstinate, yet superficial characters, whom no reason can convince that they
are wrong, no power can oblige to confess themselves mistaken. She rejoiced to hear him called
"her very image;" and predominant vanity in the large coquette extended to herself at second-hand;
self was her idol substance, and its delightful shadow was this mother's son.

The moment Mrs. Tracy left the room, Julian perceived his opportunity: Charles, detested rival,
far away at sea; the guardian gone to London; Emily in an unusual flow of affability and kindness,
and he--alone with her. Rashly did he bask his soul in her delicious beauty, deliberately drinking
deep of that intoxicating draught. Giving the rein to passion, he suffered that tumultuous
steed to hurry him whither it would, in mad unbridled course. He sat so long silently gazing
at her with the lack-lustre eyes of low and dull desire, that Emily, quite thrown off her guard
by that amiable fainting for his brother, addressed him in her innocent kind-heartedness,

"Are you not recovered yet, dear Julian?"

The effect was instantaneous: scarcely crediting his ears that heard her call him "dear," his
eyes, that saw her winning smile upon him, he started from his chair, and trembling with agitation,
flung himself at her feet, to Emily's unqualified astonishment.

"Why, Julian, what's the matter?--unhand me, sir! let go!" (for he had got hold of her wrist.)

The passionate youth seized her hand--that one with Charles's ring upon it--and would have
kissed it wildly with polluting lips, had she not shrieked suddenly "Help! help!"

Instantly his other hand was roughly dashed upon her mouth--so roughly that it almost knocked
her backwards--and the blood flowed from her wounded lip; but by a preternatural effort, the
indignant Indian queen hurled the ruffian from her, flew to the bell, and kept on ringing violently.

In less than half a minute all the household was around her, headed by the startled Mrs. Tracy,
who had all the while been listening in the other drawing-room: butler, footmen, house-maids,
ladies'-maids, cook, scullions, and all rushed in, thinking the house was on fire.

No need to explain by a word. Emily, radiant in imperial charms, stood, like inspired Cassandra,
flashing indignation from her eyes at the cowering caitiff on the floor. The mother, turning
all manner of colours, dropped on her knees to "poor Julian's" assistance, affecting to believe
him taken ill. But Emily Warren, whose insulted pride vouchsafed not a word to that guilty
couple, soon undeceived all parties, by addressing the butler in a voice tremulous and broken--

"Mr. Saunders--be so good--as to go--to Sir Abraham Tamworth's--in the square--and request
of him--a night's--protection--for a poor--defenceless, insulted woman!"

She could hardly utter the last words for choking tears: but immediately battling down her
feelings, added, with the calmness of a heroine--

"You are a father, Mr. Saunders--set all this before Sir Abraham strongly, but delicately.

"Footmen! so long as that wretch is in the room, protect me, as you are men."

And the stately beauty placed herself between the two liveried lacqueys, as Zenobia in the
middle of her guards.

"Marguerite!"--the pretty little Française tripped up to her--"wipe this blood from my face."

Beautiful, insulted creature! I thought that I looked upon some wounded Boadicea, with her
daughters extracting the arrow from her cheek.

"And now, kind Charlotte, fetch my cloak; and follow me to Prospect House, with what I may
require for the night. Till the general's return, I stay not here one minute."

Then, without a syllable, or a look of leave-taking, the wise and noble girl--doubtless unconsciously
remembering her early Hindoo braveries, the lines of matchlock men, the bowing slaves, the
processions, and her jewelled state of old--marched away in magnificent beauty, accompanied
in silence by the whole astonished household.

Mrs. Tracy and her son were left alone: the silly, silly mother thought him "hardly used."
Julian, whose natural effrontery had entirely deserted him, looked like what he was--a guilty
coward: and the mother, who had pampered up her "fine high-spirited son" to his full-grown
criminality by a foolish education, really--when she had time to think of any thing but him--was
excessively frightened. The general would be back to-morrow, and then--and then!--she dreaded
to picture that explosion of his wrath.

CHAPTER XV.

SATISFACTION.

SIR ABRAHAM TAMWORTH, G.C.B.--a fine old Admiral of the White, who somewhat looked down upon
the rank of General, H.E.I.C.S.--was astonished, as well he might be, at Mr. Saunders, and
his message: and, of course, most gladly acquiesced in acting as poor Emily's protector. Accordingly,
however jealous Lady Tamworth and her daughters might heretofore have felt of that bright beauty
at the balls, they were now all genuine sympathy, indignation, and affection. Emily, I need
hardly say, went straight up stairs to have her cry out.

"Whom are you writing to, George, in such a hurry?" asked the admiral, of a fine moustachioed
son, George St. Vincent Tamworth, of the Royal Horse Guards, who had just got six months' leave
of absence for the sake of marriage with his cousin.

The gallant soldier tossed a billet to his father, who mounted his spectacles, and quietly
read it at the lamp.

"Captain Tamworth desires Mr. Julian Tracy's company to-morrow morning, at seven o'clock, in
the third meadow on the Oxton road. The captain brings a friend with him; also pistols and
a surgeon; and he desires Mr. Tracy to do the like: Prospect House, Thursday evening."

"So, George, you consider him a gentleman, do you? I am afraid it's a poor compliment to our
fair young friend." And he quietly crumpled up the challenge in his iron hand.

"Really, sir!--you surprise me;--pardon me, but I will send that note: mustn't I chastise the
fellow for this insufferable outrage?"

"No doubt, George, no doubt of it at all: when a lady is insulted, and a man (not to say a
queen's officer) stands by without taking notice of it, he deserves whipping at the cart's-tail,
and Coventry for life. I've no patience, boy, with such mean meekness, as putting up with bullying
insolence when a woman's in the case. Let a man show moral courage, if he can and will, in
his own affront; I honour him who turns on his heel from common personal insult, and only wish
my own old blood was cool enough to do so: but the mother, wife, and sister, ay, George, and
the poor defenceless one, be she lady, peasant, or menial, who comes to us for safety in a
woman's dress, we must take up their quarrel, or we are not men!--"

"Don't interrupt him, George," uxoriously suggested Lady Tamworth, "your father hasn't done
talking yet." For George was getting terribly impatient; he knew, from sad experience, how
much the admiral was given to prosing. However, the oration soon proceeded to our captain's
entire satisfaction, after his progenitor had paused awhile for breath's sake in his eloquence.

"--Take up their quarrel, or we are not men. Nevertheless, boy, I cannot see the need of pistols.
The only conceivable case for violent redress, is woman's wrong: and he who wrongs a woman,
cannot be a gentleman; therefore, ought not to be met on equal terms. For other causes of duello,
as hot-headed speeches, rudenesses, or slights, forgive, forbear to fan the flame, and never
be above apologizing: but in an outrage such as this, let a fine-built fellow, such as you
are, George (and the women should show wisdom in their choice of champions), let a man, and
a queen's officer as you are, treat this brute, Julian Tracy, as a martinet huntsman would
a hound thrown out. As for me, boy, I'm going to call on Mrs. Tracy at eleven o'clock to-morrow
morning--and, without presuming to advise a six foot two of a son, I think--I think, if I were
you, I would be dutiful enough to say--'Father, I will accompany you--and take a horsewhip
with me.'"

"Agreed, agreed, sir!" replied the well-pleased son, and her ladyship too vouchsafed her approbation.

Emily had gone to bed long ago, or rather to her chamber; where the three Misses Tamworth had
been all kindness, curiosity, and consolation. So, Sir Abraham and his lady, now the speech
was finished, followed their example of retirement: and the captain newly blood-knotted his
hunting-whip, con amore, not to say con spirito, overnight.

Nobody will wonder to hear, that when the gallant representatives of army and navy called next
morning at number seven, Mrs. Tracy and her son were "not at home:" and of course it would
be far too Julian-like a proceeding, for true gentleman to think of forcing their company on
the probably ensconced in-dwellers. Accordingly, they marched away, without having deigned
to leave a card; the captain taking on himself the duty of perambulating sentinel, while his
father proceeded to the library as usual. Judge of the glad surprise, when, within ten minutes,
our vindictive George perceived the admiral coming back again, full-sail, with the mother and
son in tow, creeping amicably enough up the terrace. Sir Abraham had given her his arm, and
precious Mr. Julian was a little in the rear: for the old folks were talking confidentially.

George St. Vincent, placing his whip in the well-known position of "Cane, a mystery," advanced
to meet them; and, just after passing his father, with whom he exchanged a very comfortable
glance, discovered that the heroic Julian, who had caught a glimpse of the ill-concealed weapon,
was slinking quickly round a corner to avoid him. It was certainly undignified to run, but
the gallant captain did run, nevertheless and soon caught the coward by the collar.

Then, at arm's length, was the hunting-whip applied, full-swing; up the terrace, and down the
parade, and through High-street, and Smith-street, and Oxton-road, and aristocratical Pacton-square,
and the well-thronged plebeian market-place; lash, lash, lash, in furious and fast succession
on the writhing roaring culprit; to the universal excoriation of Mr. Julian Tracy, and the
amazement of an admiring and soon-collected crowd--the rank, beauty, and fashion--of Burleigh
Singleton. Julian was strong indeed, and a coal-heaver in build, but conscience had unnerved
him; and the coarse noisy bully always is a coward: therefore, it was a pleasant thing to see
how easy came the captain's work to him--he had nothing to do but to lash, lash, lash, double-thonged,
like a slave-driver: and, except that he made the caitiff move along, to be a spectacle to
man and woman, up and down the town, he might as well, for any difficulty in the deed, have
been employed in scarifying a gate-post.

