"I told you I ain't the kind to be afraid" she tossed back, almost indifferently; and suddenly
she began to walk on with a rapid step.

These alterations of mood were the despair and joy of Ethan Frome. The motions of her mind
were as incalculable as the flit of a bird in the branches. The fact that he had no right to
show his feelings, and thus provoke the expression of hers, made him attach a fantastic importance
to every change in her look and tone. Now he thought she understood him, and feared; now he
was sure she did not, and despaired. To-night the pressure of accumulated misgivings sent the
scale drooping toward despair, and her indifference was the more chilling after the flush of
joy into which she had plunged him by dismissing Denis Eady. He mounted School House Hill at
her side and walked on in silence till they reached the lane leading to the saw-mill; then
the need of some definite assurance grew too strong for him.

"You'd have found me right off if you hadn't gone back to have that last reel with Denis,"
he brought out awkwardly. He could not pronounce the name without a stiffening of the muscles
of his throat.

"Why, Ethan, how could I tell you were there?"

"I suppose what folks say is true," he jerked out at her, instead of answering.

She stopped short, and he felt, in the darkness, that her face was lifted quickly to his. "Why,
what do folks say?"

"It's natural enough you should be leaving us" he floundered on, following his thought.

"Is that what they say?" she mocked back at him; then, with a sudden drop of her sweet treble:
"You mean that Zeena--ain't suited with me any more?" she faltered.

Their arms had slipped apart and they stood motionless, each seeking to distinguish the other's
face.

"I know I ain't anything like as smart as I ought to be," she went on, while he vainly struggled
for expression. "There's lots of things a hired girl could do that come awkward to me still--and
I haven't got much strength in my arms. But if she'd only tell me I'd try. You know she hardly
ever says anything, and sometimes I can see she ain't suited, and yet I don't know why." She
turned on him with a sudden flash of indignation. "You'd ought to tell me, Ethan Frome--you'd
ought to! Unless you want me to go too--"

Unless he wanted her to go too! The cry was balm to his raw wound. The iron heavens seemed
to melt and rain down sweetness. Again he struggled for the all-expressive word, and again,
his arm in hers, found only a deep "Come along."

They walked on in silence through the blackness of the hemlock-shaded lane, where Ethan's sawmill
gloomed through the night, and out again into the comparative clearness of the fields. On the
farther side of the hemlock belt the open country rolled away before them grey and lonely under
the stars. Sometimes their way led them under the shade of an overhanging bank or through the
thin obscurity of a clump of leafless trees. Here and there a farmhouse stood far back among
the fields, mute and cold as a grave-stone. The night was so still that they heard the frozen
snow crackle under their feet. The crash of a loaded branch falling far off in the woods reverberated
like a musket-shot, and once a fox barked, and Mattie shrank closer to Ethan, and quickened
her steps.

At length they sighted the group of larches at Ethan's gate, and as they drew near it the sense
that the walk was over brought back his words.

"Then you don't want to leave us, Matt?"

He had to stoop his head to catch her stifled whisper: "Where'd I go, if I did?"

The answer sent a pang through him but the tone suffused him with joy. He forgot what else
he had meant to say and pressed her against him so closely that he seemed to feel her warmth
in his veins.

"You ain't crying are you, Matt?"

"No, of course I'm not," she quavered.

