OUR UNITARIAN GOSPEL B M. J. SAVAGE "The good news of the blessed God" BOSTON GEO. II. Ews,
141 FRANKLIN STREET 1898.

Dedication TO THOSE WHO BELIEVE THAT THE MESSAGE OF GOD TO HIS CHILDREN MUST BE ONE OF LIFE
AND HOPE INSTEAD OF A THEOLOGY WHICH TEACHES DEATH AND DESPAIR.

NOTE. The sermons which make up this volume were spoken in the Church of the Messiah during
the season of 1897-98. They are printed as delivered, not as literature, but for the sake of
preaching to a larger congregation than can be reached on Sunday morning.

CONTENTS.

UNITARIANISM "WHAT DO YOU IN PLACE OF WHAT YOU TAKE AWAY?" ARE THERE ANY CREEDS WHICH IT IS
WICKED FOR US TO QUESTION? WHY HAVE UNITARIANS NO CREED? THE REAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PRESENT
RELIGIOUS DISCUSSION DOUBT AND FAITH - BOTH IS LIFE A PROBATION ENDED BY DEATH? SIN AND ATONEMENT
PRAYER, AND COMMUNION WITH GOD THE WORSHIP OF GOD MORALITY NATURAL, NOT STATUTORY REWARD AND
PUNISHMENT THINGS WHICH DOUBT CANNOT DESTROY EVOLUTION LOSES NOTHING OF VALUE TO MAN WHY ARE
NOT ALL EDUCATED PEOPLE UNITARIANS? WHERE IS THE EVANGELICAL CHURCH?

UNITARIANISM.

THROUGH the lack of having made themselves familiar with the matter, there is a common and,
I think, a widespread impression among people generally that Unitarianism is a new-fangled
notion, a modern fad, a belief held only by a few, who are one side of the main currents of
religious life and advance.

Even if it were new, even if it were confined to the modern world, this would not necessarily
be anything against it. The Copernican theory of the universe is new, is modern. So are most
of the great discoveries that characterize and glorify the present age.

But in the case of Unitarianism this cannot be said. It is not new: it is very old. And, before
I come to discuss and outline a few of its great principles, it seems to me well that we should
get in our minds a background of historic thought, that we may see a little what are the sources
and origins of this Unitarianism, and may understand why it is that there is a new and modern
birth of it in the modern world.

All races start very far away from any Monotheistic or Unitarian belief. The Hebrews are no
exception to that rule. The early part of the Bible shows very plain traces of the fact that
the Jews were polytheists and nature-worshippers. If I should translate literally the first
verse of the Bible, it would read in this way: In the beginning the Strong Ones created the
heavens and the earth. "The word that we have translated God is in the plural; and I have already
given you its meaning. This is only a survival, a trace, of that primeval belief which the
Jews shared with all the rest of the world."

From this polytheistic position the people took a step forward to a state of mind which Professor
Max Muller calls henotheism; that is, they believed in the real existence of many gods, but
that they were under allegiance to only one, their national Deity, and that him only they must
serve.

I suppose this state of thought was maintained throughout the larger part of the history of
the Hebrew nation. You will find traces constantly, in the early part of the Old Testament,
at any rate, of the belief of the people in the other gods, and their constant tendency to
fall away to the worship of these other gods. But by and by all this was outgrown, and left
behind; and the Hebrew people came to occupy a position of monotheism, spiritual monotheism,
that is, they were passionate Unitarians, so far as the meaning of that word is concerned.
Though, of course, I would not have you understand that many, perhaps most, of the principles
which are held today under the name of Unitarian were known to them at that time, or would
have been accepted, had they been known.

In the sense, however, of believing in the oneness of God, they were Unitarians.

Now, when Christianity comes into the world, what shall we say? It is the assumption on the
part of most of the old- time churches that Jesus made it perfectly plain to his disciples
that he was a divine being, that he claimed to be one himself, and that the claim was recognized.

So far, however, as any authentic record with which we are familiar goes, Jesus himself was
a Unitarian. All the disciples were Unitarians. Paul was a Unitarian. The New Testament is
a Unitarian book from beginning to end. The finest critics of the world will tell you that
there is no trace of any other teaching there. And so, for the first three hundred years of
the history of the Church, Unitarianism was its prevailing doctrine.

I have no very good memory for names. So I have brought here a little leaflet which contains
some that I wish to speak of. Among the Church Fathers, Clement, Polycarp, Irenaeus, Tertullian,
Origen, and Lactantius, all of them in their writings make it perfectly clear and unquestioned
that the belief of the Church, the majority belief for the first three centuries, was Unitarian.
Of course, the process of thought here and there was going on which finally culminated in the
doctrine of the Trinity. That is, people were beginning more and more to exalt, as they supposed,
the character, the office, the mission of Jesus; coming more and more to believe that he was
something other than a man, that he was above and beyond humanity.

But one other among the Fathers, Justin Martyr, one of the best known of all, takes care to
point out explicitly his belief. I will read you just two or three words from it. He says:
"There is a Lord of the Lord Jesus, being his Father and God, and the Cause of his existence."

This belief, then, was universal, practically universal, throughout the first three centuries.
But the process of growth was going on which finally culminated in the controversy which was
settled by the Council of Nicaea, held in the early part of the fourth century; that is, the
year 325. The leaders of this controversy, as you know, were Arius, on the Unitarian side,
and Athanasius, fighting hard for the doctrine then new in the Church, of the Trinity.

The majority of the bishops and leading men of the Church at that time were on the side of
Arius; but at last the Emperor Constantine settled the dispute. Now you know that the sceptre
of a despotic emperor may not reason, may not think; but it is weightier than either reason
or thought in the settlement of a controversy like this at such a period in the history of
the world. So Constantine settled the controversy in favor of the Trinitarians; and henceforth
you need not wonder that Unitarianism did not grow, for it was mercilessly repressed and crushed
out for the next thousand years.

Unitarianism, however, is not alone in this. Let me call your attention to a fact of immense
significance in this matter. All this time the study of science and philosophy, that dared
to think beyond the limits of the Church's doctrine, were crushed out. There was no free philosophy,
there was no free study of science, there was no free anything for a thousand years. The secular
armed forces of Europe, with penalties of imprisonment, of the rack, of the fagot, of torture
of every kind, were enlisted against anything like liberty of thinking.

So you need not wonder, then, that there was neither any science nor any Unitarianism to be
heard of until the Renaissance. What was the Renaissance? It was the rising again of human
liberty, the possibility once more of man's freedom to think and study. Though the armed forces
of Europe were for a long time against it, the rising tide could not be entirely rolled back,
and so it gained on human thought and human life more and more. And out of this the Renaissance
came, the new birth of science, on the one hand, and on the other, issuing in the Reformation's
assertion of the right of thought and of private judgment in matters of religion; and along
with this latter the rebirth of Unitarianism, its reappearance again as a force in the history
of the world.

During this Reformation period there are many names of light and power, among them being Servetus,
whom Calvin burned because he was a Unitarian; Laelius and Faustus Socinus, Bernardino Ochino,
Blandrata, and Francis David; and, more noted in some ways than any of them, Giordano Bruno,
the man who represents the dawn of the modern world more significantly than any other man of
his age, not entirely a Unitarian, but fighting a battle out of which Unitarianism sprung,
freedom of thought, the right of private judgment, the scientific study of the universe, the
attempt, unhampered by the Church's dogma or power, to understand the world in which we live.

As a result of this Renaissance, what happened? Let me run over very rapidly the condition
of things in Europe at the present time, with some glances back, that you may see that Unitarianism
has played just as large a part as you could expect it to play, larger and grander than you
could expect it, considering the conditions.

In Hungary, one of the few countries where freedom of thought in religion has been permitted,
there has been a grand organization of the Unitarian Church for more than three hundred years,
not only churches, but a Unitarianism that has controlled colleges and universities and directed
the growth of learning.

Let us look to the North. In Sweden and Norway it is still a crime to organize a church that
teaches that Jesus is not God. So we may expect to find no Unitarian churches there; though
there are many and noble Unitarian men, thinkers and teachers. Come to Germany. There are no
organized Unitarian churches under that name here; but there is a condition of things that
is encouraging for us to note. There is a union of the Protestant organizations, in which the
liberals, or Unitarians, are free, and have their part without any question as to their doctrine.

There are hundreds and thousands of Unitarians in South Germany. In the city of Bremen I called
on a clergyman who had translated one of my books, and found out from him the condition of
things there. The cathedral of Bremen has half a dozen different preachers attached to it.
Some of them are orthodox, and some are Unitarian, all perfectly free; living happily together
in this way, and the people at liberty to come and listen to which one of them they choose.
This is not an uncommon thing in Germany. That is the condition of things, then, there.

In Holland there are no Unitarian churches, no churches going by that name; but there are thousands
of Unitarians particularly among the educated and leading men, and one university, that of
Leyden, entirely in control of the liberal religious leaders of the country.

When you come to France, which you know is dominantly Catholic, you still find a large body
of Protestants; but one wing of their great organization is virtually if not out and out Unitarian.
And a few of the most noted preachers of the modern time in France have been Unitarians. I
have had correspondence with men there which showed that they were perfectly in sympathy with
our aims, our purposes, our work.

In Transylvania and Poland there were large numbers of Unitarian churches which were afterwards
crushed out.

You find, then, all over Europe, all over civilization, just as much Unitarianism as you would
expect to find, when you consider the questions as to whether the law permits it and as to
whether the people are educated and free.

I should like, not for the sake of boasting, but simply that you may see that you are in good
company, to mention the names of some of those who are foremost in our thought. Take Mazzini,
the great leader of Italy; take Castelar, one of the greatest men in modern Spain; take Kossuth,
the flaming patriot of Hungary, all Unitarian men.

Now let us come a step nearer home: let us consider England, and note that just the moment
free thought was allowed, you find Unitarianism springing into existence. Milton was a Unitarian;
Locke, one of the greatest of English philosophers, a Unitarian; Dr. Lardner, one of its most
famous theological scholars, a Unitarian; Sir Isaac Newton, one of the few names that belong
to the highest order of those which have made the earth glorious, a Unitarian.

And, then, when we come to later England, we find another great scientist, comparatively modern,
Dr. Priestley, who, coming to this country after he had made the discovery of oxygen which
made him famous for all time, established the first Unitarian church in our neighbor city of
Philadelphia.

The first Unitarian church which took that name in the modern world was organized in London
by Dr. Theophilus Lindsey in 1774; and its establishment coincides with the great outburst
of freedom that distinguished the close of the eighteenth century.

You must not look for Unitarians where there is no liberty; for it is a cardinal principle
of their thought and their life.

Soon after the London movement, the first Unitarian church in this country was organized, or
rather the first Unitarian church came into existence. It was the old King's Chapel of Boston,
an Anglican church, which came out and took the name Unitarian.

There is a very bright saying in connection with this old church, which I will pause long enough
to repeat, because there is a principle in it as well as a great deal of wit. They kept there
the old English church service, except that it was purged, according to their point of view,
from all Trinitarian belief. It is said that Dr. Bellows, who was attending a service there
some years ago, had with him an English gentleman as a visitor. This man picked up the service,
looked it over, and, turning to Dr. Bellows, with a sarcastic look on his face, said, "Ah I
see that you have here the Church of England service watered." Whereupon Dr. Bellows, with
his power of ready wit, replied, No, my dear sir, not watered, washed. King's Chapel, then,
was the first Unitarian church in this country. But the number grew rapidly, and in a few years
perhaps half, or more than half, of the old historic Puritan and Pilgrim churches in New England
had become Unitarian, including in that number the old First Church of Plymouth.

Now, before I go on to discuss the principles underlying our movement, I wish to call your
attention to a few more names; and I trust you will pardon me for this. There is no desire
for vain-glory in the enumeration. I simply wish that people should know, what only a few do
know, who have been Unitarians in the past, and what great names, leading authoritative names
in the world's literature and science and art, find here their place.

Among the Fathers of the Revolution, all the Adamses, Dr. Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and many
another were avowed Unitarians. And, when we come to modern times, it is worth your noting
that all our great poets in this country, Bryant, Longfellow, Whittier, Holmes, Lowell, and
in this city Stedman, are Unitarian names.

