"I am sure not to lack my lord of Ormond's good word," said the Duke scornfully; "but I defy
him alike, and all my other enemies, and shall find it easy to show that this alleged conspiracy,
if any grounds for it at all exist, in a mere sham-plot, got up to turn the odium justly attached
to the Papists upon the Protestants. Here is a half-hanged creature, who, on the very day he
escapes from the gallows, which many believe was his most deserved destiny, comes to take away
the reputation of a Protestant Peer--and on what?--on the treasonable conversation of three
or four German fiddlers, heard through the sound-holes of a violoncello, and that, too, when
the creature was incased in it, and mounted on a man's shoulders! The urchin, too, in repeating
their language, shows he understands German as little as my horse does; and if he did rightly
hear, truly comprehend, and accurately report what they said, still, is my honour to be touched
by the language held by such persons as these are, with whom I have never communicated, otherwise
than men of my rank do with those of their calling and capacity?--Pardon me, sire, if I presume
to say, that the profound statesmen who endeavoured to stifle the Popish conspiracy by the
pretended Meal-tub Plot, will take little more credit by their figments about fiddles and concertos."

The assistant counsellors looked at each other; and Charles turned on his heel, and walked
through the room with long steps.

At this period the Peverils, father and son, were announced to have reached the palace, and
were ordered into the royal presence.

These gentlemen had received the royal mandate at a moment of great interest. After being dismissed
from their confinement by the elder Bridgenorth, in the manner and upon the terms which the
reader must have gathered from the conversation of the latter with Christian, they reached
the lodgings of Lady Peveril, who awaited them with joy, mingled with terror and uncertainty.
The news of the acquittal had reached her by the exertions of the faithful Lance Outram, but
her mind had been since harassed by the long delay of their appearance, and rumours of disturbances
which had taken place in Fleet Street and in the Strand.

When the first rapturous meeting was over, Lady Peveril, with an anxious look towards her son,
as if recommending caution, said she was now about to present to him the daughter of an old
friend, whom he had never (there was an emphasis on the word) seen before. "This young lady,"
she continued, "was the only child of Colonel Mitford, in North Wales, who had sent her to
remain under her guardianship for an interval, finding himself unequal to attempt the task
of her education."

"Ay, ay," said Sir Geoffrey, "Dick Mitford must be old now--beyond the threescore and ten,
I think. He was no chicken, though a cock of the game, when he joined the Marquis of Hertford
at Namptwich with two hundred wild Welshmen.--Before George, Julian, I love that girl as if
she was my own flesh and blood! Lady Peveril would never have got through this work without
her; and Dick Mitford sent me a thousand pieces, too, in excellent time, when there was scarce
a cross to keep the devil from dancing in our pockets, much more for these law-doings. I used
it without scruple, for there is wood ready to be cut at Martindale when we get down there,
and Dick Mitford knows I would have done the like for him. Strange that he should have been
the only one of my friends to reflect I might want a few pieces."

Whilst Sir Geoffrey thus run on, the meeting betwixt Alice and Julian Peveril was accomplished,
without any particular notice on his side, except to say, "Kiss her, Julian--kiss her. What
the devil! is that the way you learned to accost a lady at the Isle of Man, as if her lips
were a red-hot horseshoe?--And do not you be offended, my pretty one; Julian is naturally bashful,
and has been bred by an old lady, but you will find him, by-and-by, as gallant as thou hast
found me, my princess.--And now, Dame Peveril, to dinner, to dinner! the old fox must have
his belly-timber, though the hounds have been after him the whole day."

Lance, whose joyous congratulations were next to be undergone, had the consideration to cut
them short, in order to provide a plain but hearty meal from the next cook's shop, at which
Julian sat, like one enchanted, betwixt his mistress and his mother. He easily conceived that
the last was the confidential friend to whom Bridgenorth had finally committed the charge of
his daughter, and his only anxiety now was, to anticipate the confusion that was likely to
arise when her real parentage was made known to his father. Wisely, however, he suffered not
these anticipations to interfere with the delight of his present situation, in the course of
which many slight but delightful tokens of recognition were exchanged, without censure, under
the eye of Lady Peveril, under cover of the boisterous mirth of the old Baronet, who spoke
for two, ate for four, and drank wine for half-a-dozen. His progress in the latter exercise
might have proceeded rather too far, had he not been interrupted by a gentleman bearing the
King's orders, that he should instantly attend upon the presence at Whitehall, and bring his
son along with him.

Lady Peveril was alarmed, and Alice grew pale with sympathetic anxiety; but the old Knight,
who never saw more than what lay straight before him, set it down to the King's hasty anxiety
to congratulate him on his escape; an interest on his Majesty's part which he considered by
no means extravagant, conscious that it was reciprocal on his own side. It came upon him, indeed,
with the more joyful surprise that he had received a previous hint, ere he left the court of
justice, that it would be prudent in him to go down to Martindale before presenting himself
at Court--a restriction which he supposed as repugnant to his Majesty's feelings as it was
to his own.

While he consulted with Lance Outram about cleaning his buff-belt and sword-hilt, as well as
time admitted, Lady Peveril had the means to give Julian more distinct information, that Alice
was under her protection by her father's authority, and with his consent to their union, if
it could be accomplished. She added that it was her determination to employ the mediation of
the Countess of Derby, to overcome the obstacles which might be foreseen on the part of Sir
Geoffrey.

CHAPTER XLIX

                  In the King's name,
                  Let fall your swords and daggers!
                                                 --CRITIC.

When the father and son entered the cabinet of audience, it was easily visible that Sir Geoffrey
had obeyed the summons as he would have done the trumpet's call to horse; and his dishevelled
grey locks and half-arranged dress, though they showed zeal and haste, such as he would have
used when Charles I. called him to attend a council of war, seemed rather indecorous in a pacific
drawing-room. He paused at the door of the cabinet, but when the King called on him to advance,
came hastily forward, with every feeling of his earlier and later life afloat, and contending
in his memory, threw himself on his knees before the King, seized his hand, and, without even
an effort to speak, wept aloud. Charles, who generally felt deeply so long as an impressive
object was before his eyes, indulged for a moment the old man's rapture.--"My good Sir Geoffrey,"
he said, "you have had some hard measure; we owe you amends, and will find time to pay our debt."

"No suffering--no debt," said the old man; "I cared not what the rogues said of me--I knew
they could never get twelve honest fellows to believe a word of their most damnable lies. I
did long to beat them when they called me traitor to your Majesty--that I confess--But to have
such an early opportunity of paying my duty to your Majesty, overpays it all. The villains
would have persuaded me I ought not to come to Court--aha!"

The Duke of Ormond perceived that the King coloured much; for in truth it was from the Court
that the private intimation had been given to Sir Geoffrey to go down to the country, without
appearing at Whitehall; and he, moreover, suspected that the jolly old Knight had not risen
from his dinner altogether dry-lipped, after the fatigues of a day so agitating.--"My old friend,"
he whispered, "you forget that your son is to be presented--permit me to have that honour."

"I crave your Grace's pardon humbly," said Sir Geoffrey, "but it is an honour I design for
myself, as I apprehend no one can so utterly surrender and deliver him up to his Majesty's
service as the father that begot him is entitled to do.--Julian, come forward, and kneel.--Here
he is, please your Majesty--Julian Peveril--a chip of the old block--as stout, though scarce
so tall a tree, as the old trunk, when at the freshest. Take him to you, sir, for a faithful
servant, à pendre, as the French say; if he fears fire or steel, axe or gallows, in your Majesty's
service, I renounce him--he is no son of mine--I disown him, and he may go to the Isle of Man,
the Isle of Dogs, or the Isle of Devils, for what I care."

Charles winked to Ormond, and having, with his wonted courtesy, expressed his thorough conviction
that Julian would imitate the loyalty of his ancestors, and especially of his father, added,
that he believed his Grace of Ormond had something to communicate which was of consequence
to his service. Sir Geoffrey made his military reverence at this hint, and marched off in the
rear of the Duke, who proceeded to inquire of him concerning the events of the day. Charles,
in the meanwhile, having in the first place, ascertained that the son was not in the same genial
condition with the father, demanded and received from him a precise account of all the proceedings
subsequent to the trial.

Julian, with the plainness and precision which such a subject demanded, when treated in such
a presence, narrated all that happened down to the entrance of Bridgenorth; and his Majesty
was so much pleased with his manner, that he congratulated Arlington on their having gained
the evidence of at least one man of sense to these dark and mysterious events. But when Bridgenorth
was brought upon the scene, Julian hesitated to bestow a name upon him; and although he mentioned
the chapel which he had seen filled with men in arms, and the violent language of the preacher,
he added, with earnestness, that notwithstanding all this, the men departed without coming
to any extremity, and had all left the place before his father and he were set at liberty.

"And you retired quietly to your dinner in Fleet Street, young man," said the King severely,
"without giving a magistrate notice of the dangerous meeting which was held in the vicinity
of our palace, and who did not conceal their intention of proceeding to extremities?"

Peveril blushed, and was silent. The King frowned, and stepped aside to communicate with Ormond,
who reported that the father seemed to have known nothing of the matter.

"And the son, I am sorry to say," said the King, "seems more unwilling to speak the truth than
I should have expected. We have all variety of evidence in this singular investigation--a mad
witness like the dwarf, a drunken witness like the father, and now a dumb witness.--Young man,"
he continued, addressing Julian, "your behaviour is less frank than I expected from your father's
son. I must know who this person is with whom you held such familiar intercourse--you know
him, I presume?"

Julian acknowledged that he did, but, kneeling on one knee, entreated his Majesty's forgiveness
for concealing his name; "he had been freed," he said, "from his confinement, on promising
to that effect."

"That was a promise made, by your own account, under compulsion," answered the King, "and I
cannot authorise your keeping it; it is your duty to speak the truth--if you are afraid of
Buckingham, the Duke shall withdraw."

"I have no reason to fear the Duke of Buckingham," said Peveril; "that I had an affair with
one of his household, was the man's own fault and not mine."

"Oddsfish!" said the King, "the light begins to break in on me--I thought I remembered thy
physiognomy. Wert thou not the very fellow whom I met at Chiffinch's yonder morning?--The matter
escaped me since; but now I recollect thou saidst then, that thou wert the son of that jolly
old three-bottle Baronet yonder."

"It is true," said Julian, "that I met your Majesty at Master Chiffinch's, and I am afraid
had the misfortune to displease you; but----"

"No more of that, young man--no more of that--But I recollect you had with you that beautiful
dancing siren.--Buckingham, I will hold you gold to silver, that she was the intended tenant
of that bass-fiddle?"

"Your Majesty has rightly guessed it," said the Duke; "and I suspect she has put a trick upon
me, by substituting the dwarf in her place; for Christian thinks----"

"Damn Christian!" said the King hastily--"I wish they would bring him hither, that universal
referee."--And as the wish was uttered, Christian's arrival was announced. "Let him attend,"
said the King: "But hark--a thought strikes me.--Here, Master Peveril--yonder dancing maiden
that introduced you to us by the singular agility of her performance, is she not, by your account,
a dependent of the Countess of Derby?"

"I have known her such for years," answered Julian.

"Then will we call the Countess hither," said the King: "It is fit we should learn who this
little fairy really is; and if she be now so absolutely at the beck of Buckingham, and this
Master Christian of his--why I think it would be but charity to let her ladyship know so much,
since I question if she will wish, in that case, to retain her in her service. Besides," he
continued, speaking apart, "this Julian, to whom suspicion attaches in these matters from his
obstinate silence, is also of the Countess's household. We will sift this matter to the bottom,
and do justice to all."

The Countess of Derby, hastily summoned, entered the royal closet at one door, just as Christian
and Zarah, or Fenella, were ushered in by the other. The old Knight of Martindale, who had
ere this returned to the presence, was scarce controlled, even by the signs which she made,
so much was he desirous of greeting his old friend; but as Ormond laid a kind restraining hand
upon his arm, he was prevailed on to sit still.

The Countess, after a deep reverence to the King, acknowledged the rest of the nobility present
by a slighter reverence, smiled to Julian Peveril, and looked with surprise at the unexpected
apparition of Fenella. Buckingham bit his lip, for he saw the introduction of Lady Derby was
likely to confuse and embroil every preparation which he had arranged for his defence; and
he stole a glance at Christian, whose eye, when fixed on the Countess, assumed the deadly sharpness
which sparkles in the adder's, while his cheek grew almost black under the influence of strong
emotion.

"Is there any one in this presence whom your ladyship recognises," said the King graciously,
"besides your old friends of Ormond and Arlington?"

"I see, my liege, two worthy friends of my husband's house," replied the Countess; "Sir Geoffrey
Peveril and his son--the latter a distinguished member of my son's household."

"Any one else?" continued the King.

"An unfortunate female of my family, who disappeared from the Island of Man at the same time
when Julian Peveril left it upon business of importance. She was thought to have fallen from
the cliff into the sea."

"Had your ladyship any reason to suspect--pardon me," said the King, "for putting such a question--any
improper intimacy between Master Peveril and this same female attendant?"

"My liege," said the Countess, colouring indignantly, "my household is of reputation."

"Nay, my lady, be not angry," said the King; "I did but ask--such things will befall in the
best regulated families."

"Not in mine, sire," said the Countess. "Besides that, in common pride and in common honesty,
Julian Peveril is incapable of intriguing with an unhappy creature, removed by her misfortune
almost beyond the limits of humanity."

Zarah looked at her, and compressed her lips, as if to keep in the words that would fain break
from them.

"I know how it is," said the King--"What your ladyship says may be true in the main, yet men's
tastes have strange vagaries. This girl is lost in Man as soon as the youth leaves it, and
is found in Saint Jame's Park, bouncing and dancing like a fairy, so soon as he appears in London."

"Impossible!" said the Countess; "she cannot dance."

"I believe," said the King, "she can do more feats than your ladyship either suspects or would
approve of."

The Countess drew up, and was indignantly silent.

The King proceeded--"No sooner is Peveril in Newgate, than, by the account of the venerable
little gentleman, this merry maiden is even there also for company. Now, without inquiring
how she got in, I think charitably that she had better taste than to come there on the dwarf's
account.--Ah ha! I think Master Julian is touched in conscience!"

Julian did indeed start as the King spoke, for it reminded him of the midnight visit in his cell.

The King looked fixedly at him, and then proceeded--"Well, gentlemen, Peveril is carried to
his trial, and is no sooner at liberty, than we find him in the house where the Duke of Buckingham
was arranging what he calls a musical mask.--Egad, I hold it next to certain, that this wench
put the change on his Grace, and popt the poor dwarf into the bass-viol, reserving her own
more precious hours to be spent with Master Julian Peveril.--Think you not so, Sir Christian,
you, the universal referee? Is there any truth in this conjecture?"

Christian stole a glance at Zarah, and read that in her eye which embarrassed him. "He did
not know," he said; "he had indeed engaged this unrivalled performer to take the proposed part
in the mask; and she was to have come forth in the midst of a shower of lambent fire, very
artificially prepared with perfumes, to overcome the smell of the powder; but he knew not why--excepting
that she was wilful and capricious, like all great geniuses--she had certainly spoiled the
concert by cramming in that more bulky dwarf."

"I should like," said the King, "to see this little maiden stand forth, and bear witness, in
such manner as she can express herself, on this mysterious matter. Can any one here understand
her mode of communication?"

Christian said, he knew something of it since he had become acquainted with her in London.
The Countess spoke not till the King asked her, and then owned dryly, that she had necessarily
some habitual means of intercourse with one who had been immediately about her person for so
many years.

"I should think," said Charles, "that this same Master Peveril has the more direct key to her
language, after all we have heard."

The King looked first at Peveril, who blushed like a maiden at the inference which the King's
remark implied, and then suddenly turned his eyes on the supposed mute, on whose cheek a faint
colour was dying away. A moment afterwards, at a signal from the Countess, Fenella, or Zarah,
stepped forward, and having kissed her lady's hand, stood with her arms folded on her breast,
with a humble air, as different from that which she wore in the harem of the Duke of Buckingham,
as that of a Magdalene from a Judith. Yet this was the least show of her talent of versatility,
for so well did she play the part of the dumb girl, that Buckingham, sharp as his discernment
was, remained undecided whether the creature which stood before him could possibly be the same
with her, who had, in a different dress, made such an impression on his imagination, or indeed
was the imperfect creature she now represented. She had at once all that could mark the imperfection
of hearing, and all that could show the wonderful address by which nature so often makes up
of the deficiency. There was the lip that trembles not at any sound--the seeming insensibility
to the conversation that passed around; while, on the other hand, was the quick and vivid glance;
that seemed anxious to devour the meaning of those sounds, which she could gather no otherwise
than by the motion of the lips.

Examined after her own fashion, Zarah confirmed the tale of Christian in all its points, and
admitted that she had deranged the project laid for a mask, by placing the dwarf in her own
stead; the cause of her doing so she declined to assign, and the Countess pressed her no farther.

"Everything tells to exculpate my Lord of Buckingham," said Charles, "from so absurd an accusation:
the dwarf's testimony is too fantastic, that of the two Peverils does not in the least affect
the Duke; that of the dumb damsel completely contradicts the possibility of his guilt. Methinks,
my lords, we should acquaint him that he stands acquitted of a complaint, too ridiculous to
have been subjected to a more serious scrutiny than we have hastily made upon this occasion."

Arlington bowed in acquiescence, but Ormond spoke plainly.--"I should suffer, sire, in the
opinion of the Duke of Buckingham, brilliant as his talents are known to be, should I say that
I am satisfied in my own mind on this occasion. But I subscribe to the spirit of the times;
and I agree it would be highly dangerous, on such accusations as we have been able to collect,
to impeach the character of a zealous Protestant like his Grace--Had he been a Catholic, under
such circumstances of suspicion, the Tower had been too good a prison for him."

Buckingham bowed to the Duke of Ormond, with a meaning which even his triumph could not disguise.--"Tu
me la pagherai!" he muttered, in a tone of deep and abiding resentment; but the stout old Irishman,
who had long since braved his utmost wrath, cared little for this expression of his displeasure.

The King then, signing to the other nobles to pass into the public apartments, stopped Buckingham
as he was about to follow them; and when they were alone, asked, with a significant tone, which
brought all the blood in the Duke's veins into his countenance, "When was it, George, that
your useful friend Colonel Blood became a musician?--You are silent," he said; "do not deny
the charge, for yonder villain, once seen, is remembered for ever. Down, down on your knees,
George, and acknowledge that you have abused my easy temper.--Seek for no apology--none will
serve your turn. I saw the man myself, among your Germans as you call them; and you know what
I must needs believe from such a circumstance."

"Believe that I have been guilty--most guilty, my liege and King," said the Duke, conscience-stricken,
and kneeling down;--"believe that I was misguided--that I was mad--Believe anything but that
I was capable of harming, or being accessory to harm, your person."

"I do not believe it," said the King; "I think of you, Villiers, as the companion of my dangers
and my exile, and am so far from supposing you mean worse than you say, that I am convinced
you acknowledge more than ever you meant to attempt."

"By all that is sacred," said the Duke, still kneeling, "had I not been involved to the extent
of life and fortune with the villain Christian----"

"Nay, if you bring Christian on the stage again," said the King, smiling, "it is time for me
to withdraw. Come, Villiers, rise--I forgive thee, and only recommend one act of penance--the
curse you yourself bestowed on the dog who bit you--marriage, and retirement to your country-seat."

The Duke rose abashed, and followed the King into the circle, which Charles entered, leaning
on the shoulder of his repentant peer; to whom he showed so much countenance, as led the most
acute observers present, to doubt the possibility of there existing any real cause for the
surmises to the Duke's prejudice.

The Countess of Derby had in the meanwhile consulted with the Duke of Ormond, with the Peverils,
and with her other friends; and, by their unanimous advice, though with considerable difficulty,
became satisfied, that to have thus shown herself at Court, was sufficient to vindicate the
honour of her house; and that it was her wisest course, after having done so, to retire to
her insular dominions, without farther provoking the resentment of a powerful faction. She
took farewell of the King in form, and demanded his permission to carry back with her the helpless
creature who had so strangely escaped from her protection, into a world where her condition
rendered her so subject to every species of misfortune.

"Will your ladyship forgive me?" said Charles. "I have studied your sex long--I am mistaken
if your little maiden is not as capable of caring for herself as any of us."

"Impossible!" said the Countess.

"Possible, and most true," whispered the King. "I will instantly convince you of the fact,
though the experiment is too delicate to be made by any but your ladyship. Yonder she stands,
looking as if she heard no more than the marble pillar against which she leans. Now, if Lady
Derby will contrive either to place her hand near the region of the damsel's heart, or at least
on her arm, so that she can feel the sensation of the blood when the pulse increases, then
do you, my Lord of Ormond, beckon Julian Peveril out of sight--I will show you in a moment
that it can stir at sounds spoken."

The Countess, much surprised, afraid of some embarrassing pleasantry on the part of Charles,
yet unable to repress her curiosity, placed herself near Fenella, as she called her little
mute; and, while making signs to her, contrived to place her hand on her wrist.

At this moment the King, passing near them, said, "This is a horrid deed--the villain Christian
has stabbed young Peveril!"

The mute evidence of the pulse, which bounded as if a cannon had been discharged close by the
poor girl's ear, was accompanied by such a loud scream of agony, as distressed, while it startled,
the good-natured monarch himself. "I did but jest," he said; "Julian is well, my pretty maiden.
I only used the wand of a certain blind deity, called Cupid, to bring a deaf and dumb vassal
of his to the exercise of her faculties."

"I am betrayed!" she said, with her eyes fixed on the ground--"I am betrayed!--and it is fit
that she, whose life has been spent in practising treason on others, should be caught in her
own snare. But where is my tutor in iniquity?--where is Christian, who taught me to play the
part of spy on this unsuspicious lady, until I had well-nigh delivered her into his bloody hands?"

"This," said the King, "craves more secret examination. Let all leave the apartment who are
not immediately connected with these proceedings, and let this Christian be again brought before
us.--Wretched man," he continued, addressing Christian, "what wiles are these you have practised,
and by what extraordinary means?"

