THE TALE OF MR. PETER BROWN--CHELSEA JUSTICE

From "The New Decameron"--Volume III.

By V. Sackville West

THE first thing which attracted my attention to the man was the shock of white hair above the
lean young face. But for this, I should not have looked twice at him: long, spare, and stooping,
a shabby figure, he crouched over a cup of coffee in a corner of the dingy restaurant, at fretful
enmity with the world; typical, I should have said, of the furtive London nondescript. But
that white hair startled me; it gleamed out, unnaturally cleanly in those not overclean surroundings,
and although I had propped my book up against the water-bottle at my own table, where I sat
over my solitary dinner, I found my eyes straying from the printed page to the human face which
gave the promise of greater interest. Before very long he became conscious of my glances, and
returned them when he thought I was not observing him. Inevitably, however, the moment came
when our eyes met, We both looked away as though taken in fault, but when, having finished
his coffee and laid out the coppers in payment on his table, he rose to make his way out between
the tables, he let his gaze dwell on me as he passed; let it dwell on me quite perceptibly,
quite definitely, with an air of curious speculation, a hesitation, almost an appeal, and I
thought he was about to speak, but instead of that he crushed his hat, an old black wideawake,
down over his strange white hair, and hurrying resolutely on towards the swing-doors of the
restaurant, he passed out and was lost in the London night.

I was uncomfortably haunted, after that evening, by a sense of guilt. I was quite certain,
with unjustifiable certainty born of instinct, that the man had wanted to speak to me, and
that the smallest response on my part would have encouraged him to do so. Why hadn't I given
the response? A smile would have sufficed; a smile wasn't much to demand by one human being
of another. I thought it very pitiable that the conventions of our social system should persuade
one to withhold so small a thing from a fellow-creature who, perhaps, stood in need of it.
That smile, which I might have given, but had withheld, became for me a sort of symbol. I grew
superstitious about it; built up around it all kinds of extravagant ideas; pictured to myself
the splash of a body into the river; and then, recovering my sense of proportion, told myself
that one really couldn't go about London smiling at people. Yet I didn't get the man's face
out of my head. It was not only the white hair that had made an impression on my mind, but
the unhappy eyes, the timidly beseeching look. The man was lonely, I was quite sure of that;
utterly lonely. And I had refused a smile.

I don't know whether to say with more pride than shame, or more shame than pride, that I went
back to the restaurant a week later. I had been kept late at my work, and there were few diners;
but he was there, sitting at the same table, hunched up as before over a cup of coffee. Did
the man live on coffee? He was thin enough, in all conscience, rather like a long, sallow bird,
with a snowy crest. And he had no occupation, no book to read; nothing better to do than to
bend his long curves over the little table and to stab at the sugar in his coffee with his
spoon. He glanced up when I came in, casually, at the small stir I made; then by his suddenly
startled look I saw that he had recognised me. I didn't nod to him, but I returned his look
so steadily that it amounted to a greeting. You know those moments, when understanding flickers
between people? Well, that was one of those moments.

I sat down at a table, placing myself so that I should face him, and very ostentatiously I
took a newspaper out of my pocket, unfolded it, and began to read. But through my reading I
was aware of him, and I knew that he was aware of me. At the same time I couldn't help being
touched by what I knew I should read in his face: the same hostility, towards the world at
large, and towards myself the same appeal, half fearful, half beseeching. It was as though
he said, aloud and distinctly, "Let me talk! For God's sake let me talk it out!" And this time
I was determined that he should; yes, I was quite grim over my determination. I was going to
get at the secret that lay behind those hunted eyes.

I was in a queer mood myself; rather a cruel mood, although the starting-point of my intention
had been kind. I knew that my mood had something of cruelty in it, because I discovered that
I was purposely dawdling over my dinner, in order to keep the man longer than necessary on
the rack. Queer, the complexities one unearths in oneself. But probably if I had been an ordinary
straightforward kind of fellow, I should never have had the sensibility to recognise in the
first instance that the man wanted to talk to me. It's the reverse of the medal, I suppose.

He had finished his coffee, of course, long before I had finished my dinner; he had squeezed
the last drop out of the little coffee-pot, and I wondered with amusement whether he would
have the moral courage to remain where he was now that his ostensible pretext was gone and
that the waiter was beginning to loiter round his table as a hint that he ought to go. Poor
devil, I could see that he was growing uneasy; he shuffled his feet, and the glances he threw
at me became yet more furtive and reproachful. Still I gave no sign; I don't know what spirit
of sarcasm and teasing possessed me. He stood it for some time, then he shoved back his chair,
reached for his hat, and stood up. It was a sort of defiance that he was throwing at me, an
ultimatum that I should either end my cat-and-mouse game, or let him go. As he was about to
pass my table on the way out, I spoke to him.

"Care for a look at the evening paper?"

Absurd--isn't it?--that one should have to cloak one's interest in a stranger's soul under
such a convention as the offer of a paper. Why couldn't I have said to him straight out, "Look
here, what's the matter with you?" But our affairs are not so conducted. He accepted my offer,
and stood awkwardly reading the City News, which I thought a sure indication of his confusion,
as by no stretch of fancy could I imagine him the possessor of stocks or shares. "Sit down,"
I said, "while you read."

He sat down, with a mumble of thanks, laying his old black wideawake beside him on my table.
I think he was glad of the paper, for it gave him something to do with his hands and his eyes.
I observed him, and he must have known I was observing him. Underneath the thick, snow-white
hair the face was young, although so sunken and so sallow, the face of a man of perhaps twenty-seven
or eight, sensitive, not at all the face of a criminal escaping from justice, in spite of that
hunted look which had been so vividly present to me during the past week. An artist, I thought;
perhaps a writer; a romantic face; not blatantly romantic; no, but after you had delved into
the eyes and traced the quiver of the mouth you discovered the certain signs of the romantic
idealist.

"I saw you here last week," he muttered suddenly.

The little restaurant was by now almost empty; many of the lights had been turned down, and
at most of the tables the chairs had been tipped forward. Being privileged as an old and regular
customer, I beckoned to the proprietor, and in a whisper begged that I might not be disturbed,
as I had to hold a business conversation of some importance with my companion. At the same
time I poured out for the stranger a glass of wine from my own bottle, remarking that the wine
here was better than their coffee. This seemed to unloose his tongue a little, for he exclaimed
that coffee was very bad for the nerves, especially strong, black coffee, as he drank it; and
after this short outburst relapsed again into silence, taking refuge in the paper.

I tried him once more.

"I don't remember seeing you here before last week?"

He shot me a quick look, and said, "I haven't been in London."

"Travelling, perhaps?" I hazarded negligently.

He gave a harsh shout of laughter, succeeded by the same abrupt silence. Would all our conversation,
I wondered, be conducted on this spasmodic system? He certainly didn't second my efforts at
small-talk. Was what he had to say too vital, too oppressive?

"I say," I resumed, leaning forward, "have I seen you anywhere else? I think your face is familiar...."
It was a lie; I knew perfectly well that I had never seen him anywhere; his was not an appearance
to be lightly forgotten.

"And yet," I added, as he stared at me without speaking, "I am sure I should remember; one
would remember this contrast"--and I touched first my face and then my hair.

"It has only been like that for a fortnight."

He brought out the words, scowling and lowering at me, and then the fierce look died away,
to be replaced by a look of apology and pain; a cowed look, like that of a dog who has been
ill-treated. "That is what made you notice me," he exclaimed; "it brands me, doesn't it? Yes.
A freak. One might as well be piebald." He spoke with extraordinary vehemence, and, taking
a handful of his hair, he tugged at it in a rage of despair; then sinking his face between
his hands, he sat shaking his head mournfully from side to side.

"Listen," I said, "have you any friends?"

He raised his head.

"I had a few stray acquaintances. Nothing would tempt me to go near them now."

"Anyone to talk to?"

"Not a soul. I haven't spoken to a soul since--since I came back."

"Fire ahead, then," I said, "talk to me. You don't know my name, I don't know yours. You're
quite safe. Say whatever you like. Go on. I'm waiting."

He began, talking in a voice low, rapid, and restrained. He spoke so fluently that I knew he
must often have rehearsed the phrases over to himself, muttering them, against the day when
he should be granted expression. "I had two friends. They were very good to me. I was homeless,
and they told me to look on their home as my own. I hope I didn't trespass too much on their
hospitality, but I fell into the habit of wandering into their house every evening after dinner,
and staying there till it was time to go to bed. I really don't know which I cared for most,
in those early days, the man or the woman. It had been with him that I first made acquaintance;
we were both engaged on journalistic work, reporting, you know, on different papers--and we
came across each other once or twice in that way. He was a saturnine, queer-tempered fellow,
taciturn at times, and at other times possessed by a wry sense of humour which made him excellent
company, though it kept one in a state of alert disquiet. He would say things with that particular
twist to them which made one look up, startled, wondering whether his remark was really intended
to be facetious or obscurely sinister. Thanks to this ambiguity he had gained quite a reputation
in Fleet Street. You can imagine, therefore, that I was flattered when he singled me out; I
listened to all his remarks with a respect I was too proud to betray; although I adopted an
off-hand manner towards him, I didn't lose many opportunities of letting the other fellows
know, in a casual way, that I had been practically given the run of his house; and I was never
sorry to be seen when we strolled off with his arm in mine.

"They lived, he and his wife, in a tiny house at the end of Cheyne Walk. On misty evenings
we used to sit, all three, on the sill of the bow-window, watching the big barges float by,
while our legs swung dangling from the high sill, and we talked of many things in the desultory
way born of easy intimacy, and I used silently to marvel at the sharpness of his mind and the
gentleness of hers. She was very gentle. It even irritated me, faintly, to observe her complete
submission to him. Not that he bullied her, not exactly. But he had a way of taking submission
for granted, and so, I suppose, most people accorded it to him. It irritated me to see how
his wife had subdued her personality to his, she who was of so tender and delicate a fibre,
and who more than anyone wanted cherishing, instead of being ridden down, in that debonair,
rough-shod way of his, that, although often exasperating, still had something attractive about
it. She and I used to discuss it sometimes, in the evenings, when he was kept out late at his
job--it's an uncertain business, reporting--we used to discuss it with the tolerance of fond
people, and smile over his weaknesses, and say that he was incorrigible. All the same, it continued
to irritate me. Sometimes I could see that he hurt her, when in his impatient way he swung
round to devastate her opinions with those sly and unanswerable phrases that placed everything
once and for always in a ridiculous light. What a devilish gift he had, that man, of humiliating
one! And he did it always in so smiling and friendly a fashion that one could neither take
offence nor retaliate. In fact, one didn't realise that one had been attacked until one felt
the blood running warm from one's wounds, while he had already danced away upon some other quest.

"I can hardly trace the steps by which my admiration of him grew to affection, my affection
to uneasiness, and my uneasiness to resentment. I only know that I took to flushing scarlet
when I saw her wince, and to making about him, when I was alone with her, remarks that were
less and less tolerant and more and more critical. My temper grew readier to bite out at him,
my amusement less easily beguiled. I don't know whether he noticed it. Most probably he did,
for he always noticed everything. If he did, then he gave no sign. His friendliness towards
me continued unvarying, and there were times when I thought he really bestirred himself to
impress me, to seduce me, he who was usually so contemptuous, and seemed to enjoy stirring
up people's dislike. It wasn't difficult for him to impress me, if that was what he wanted,
for he had, of course, a far better brain than my own; the sort of brain that compelled one's
startled admiration, even when one least wanted to accord it. By Jove, how well he used to
talk, on those evenings, when we sat and dangled our legs from the window-sill, looking out
at the barges! The best talk I ever heard. You could have taken it all down in shorthand, and
not a word to alter.

"Then he got a regular job which kept him out for three evenings a week, but he told me that
mustn't make any difference to my habits: I was to drop in just the same, whenever I wanted
to; and since I hadn't anywhere else to go, and since the house had become a home to me, I
took him at his word. In a way I missed him, on the evenings he wasn't there; although I could
no longer pretend to myself that I was fond of him, he was a perpetual interest and stimulation
to me, an angry stimulation, if you can understand what I mean, and I missed his presence,
if only because it deprived me of the occupation of picking holes in him, and of making mental
pounces for my own satisfaction upon everything he said. Not upon its intellectual value. That
was above reproach. Only upon it as a signpost to his character. I took a delight in silently
finding fault with him. But presently this desire passed from me, and I came to prefer the
repose of the evenings I spent alone with his wife to the strenuousness of the evenings when
we were all three together. We talked very little, his wife and I, when he was not there. She
had about her an amazing quality of restfulness, of which I quickly got into the habit of taking
advantage, after the vulgar, competitive days of a journalist's existence. You can't imagine
what it meant to me, to drift into the seclusion of that little Chelsea room, with the mistiness
of the trees and the river outside the window, to be greeted by her smile, and to sink into
my familiar arm-chair, where I might lounge sucking at my pipe and watching the cool glimmer
of her beautiful hands over the rhythm of her needle. Can you wonder that we didn't talk much?
And can you wonder that our silence became heavy with the things we hadn't said?

"Not at first. Our love-affair ran a course contrary to the usual ordering of such things.
If it indeed ended in all the fever and pain of passion, it certainly began with all the calm
of the hearth; yes, I went through a long phase of accepting that room as my home, and that
gentle woman as my natural companion therein. I don't think I examined the situation at all
closely at that time. I was more than content to let so pleasant an acquiescence take possession
of me; for the first time in my life, you understand, I was neither lonely nor unhappy. The
only thing that jarred was his presence. The evenings when he was there were all out of tune.
All out of tune."

The man with the white hair paused to pour himself out another glass of wine; and his voice,
losing the dreamy note of reminiscence, sharpened to a more rapid utterance--a crescendo for
which I had been waiting.

"I haven't an attractive character," he resumed; "I don't want you to think that I have, and
so accord me more sympathy than I deserve. Please be quite impartial. Please realise that,
according to ordinary standards, I played the part of a cad. Think: there was a man, ostensibly
my friend, who had given me the run of his house; I accept his hospitality and his friendship,
and then take advantage of his absences to make love to his wife. Not a pretty story, although
a commonplace one. Please be quite harsh towards me, and let me be quite harsh towards myself.
I did none of the things I ought to have done under the circumstances; I neither went quietly
abroad without making a fuss, nor did I attempt to conceal my feelings from her. If you knew
her," he said, with an anguish of longing that lit up the whole story for me better than any
words of his could have done, "if you knew her, you would realise at once that she wasn't a
woman from whom one could conceal one's feelings. There was that calm gentleness about her
which made all hypocrisy a shame and a sham. Also, deceiving her would have been like deceiving
a child; hurting her was like hurting a child. (That was what enraged me when he hurt her,
and I had to stand by, and listen.) She was so simple, and direct, and defenceless. So, you
see, as soon as I realised what had happened, I told her. It wasn't a dramatic avowal, and
it had no very immediately dramatic consequences. In fact, for a while its only effect was
to bring me across the room from my habitual arm-chair, to sit on the floor near her with my
head against her knee; and so we would remain for hours, not moving, scarcely speaking, for
there was such harmony and such content between us that we seemed to know everything that passed
in each other's minds.

"Of course, that couldn't last. We were young and human, you see; and standing in the background,
overshadowing the perfection of our solitary hours, was his long, sarcastic figure--her husband
and my friend. An impossible situation, when you come to consider it. The evenings that he
spent at home very soon became intolerable, from every point of view. I grew so nervous with
the strain of keeping a hold on myself, that even her tenderness could no longer soothe me.
He didn't seem to notice anything amiss, and, you know, the funny, horrible, contradictory
part was that, much as I now hated him, I was still conscious of his charm. And so, I think,
was she. Can't you picture the trio in that little Chelsea room, while the barges floated by,
and she and I sat on opposite sides of the fireplace, so terribly aware of one another, and
he lay on the sofa, his long legs trailing over the end, discoursing in his admirable and varied
way on life, politics, and letters? I wonder in how many London drawing-rooms that situation
was being simultaneously reproduced?

"Why do I bore you with a recital so commonplace?" he exclaimed, bringing his fist down on
the table; "are you beginning to ask yourself that? What have you to do with journalistic adulteries?
Only wait: you shan't complain that the sequel is commonplace, and perhaps, one day, when you
read in the papers the sequel to the sequel, you will remember and be entertained. He caught
us red-handed, you see. It was one evening when we hadn't expected him home until after midnight,
and at ten o'clock the door opened and he stood suddenly in the room. Squalid enough, isn't
it? To this day I don't know whether he had laid a trap for us, or whether he was as surprised
as we were. He stood there stock still, and I sprang up and stood too, and we glared across
at one another. After a moment he said, 'Paolo and Francesca? this scene acquires quite a classic
dignity, doesn't it, from frequent repetition?' And then he said the most astonishing thing;
he said, 'Don't let me disturb you, and above all remember that I don't mind,' and with that
he went out of the room and shut the door.

"After that," said the man with the white hair, "I didn't go near the house for a week. This
was at her request, and of course I couldn't refuse her. During that week she telephoned to
me daily, once in the morning and once in the evening, always with the same story: she had
seen nothing of him. He had not even been home to collect any of his clothes. You may imagine
the state of anxiety I lived in during that week, which his disappearance did nothing to palliate,
but rather heightened by leaving everything so mysterious and uncertain. She was evidently
terrified--I could hear it in her voice--but implored me to keep away, for her sake, if not
for mine. At the end of the week he appeared without warning in the office of the paper where
I worked, and, greeting me without making any allusion to what had happened, invited me to
come for two days' sailing in a small boat which had been lent him by a friend.

"I was startled enough by this incongruous suggestion, but naturally I accepted: you couldn't
refuse such an invitation from a man who, you suspected, intended to have such a matter out
with you on the open sea. We started immediately, and all the way down in the train for Cornwall
he talked in his usual manner, undeterred by the fact that I never answered him. We got out
at Penzance, the time then being, I suppose, about six o'clock in the evening. I had never
been to Penzance before, but he seemed to know his way about, walking me briskly down to the
harbour, where a fishing-smack under the charge of a rough-looking sailor was waiting for him.
By now I was quite certain that he meant to have it out with me, and for my part, after the
long uncertainty of the week, I asked nothing better than to get to grips with him. All I prayed
for was a hand-to-hand struggle in which I might have the luck to tip him overboard, so I was
rather dismayed when I saw that the sailor was to accompany us.

"We started without any delay, getting clear of the port just as the darkness fell and the
first stars came out in a pale green sky. I had never been with him anywhere but in London,
and it crossed my mind that it was odd to be with him so far away, off this rocky coast, in
the solitude of waters; and I looked at the green sky above the red-brown sails of the fishing-smack,
and thought of the barges floating down the river at Chelsea. They were ships, and this was
a ship; they carried men, and this one also carried men. I looked at my companion, who sat
in the stern holding the tiller. There was a breeze, which drove us along at quite a smart
pace. 'Cornwall,' I said to myself, staring slowly round the bay and at the black mass of St.
Michael's Mount,' Cornwall...'

"I don't know how many hours we sailed that night, but I know that when the day broke we were
out of sight of land. All that while we had not spoken a word, though to all practical purposes
we were alone, the sailor having gone to sleep for'ard on a heap of nets, in the bottom of
the boat. He was a rough, handsome, foreign-looking fellow, of a type I believe often to be
found in that part of England. I couldn't understand the object of this sailing expedition
at all. It seemed to me an unnecessarily elaborate introduction to the discussion of a subject
which could as well have been thrashed out in London. Still, as the other man was the aggrieved
party, I supposed that he was entitled to the choice of weapons; I supposed that his devilish
sense of humour was at the bottom of all this, and I was determined not to give him the chance
of saying I wouldn't play up. But why couldn't he tell me what was in his mind? How far did
he mean to take me out to sea first? These questions and others raced through my mind during
the whole of that night, while I sat back leaning against the sides of the boat, watching the
stars pass overhead and listening to the gentle sip, sip of the water.

"At dawn my companion rose, and, shading his eyes with one hand while with the other he still
held the tiller, he stood up scanning the surface of the waters. I watched him, resolved that
it would not be me who spoke first. After a while he appeared to find what he was looking for,
for he said, 'Nearly there.' I could see nothing to break the whole pale opal stretch of sunrise-flushing
sea but a small black speck which I took to be a buoy, and the faint echo of its bell was borne
to me through the clear air. He sat down again beside the tiller, and we sailed on in the same
silence, into the loveliness of the morning. I was quite certain that he had some sinister
purpose, though what it was I could not yet imagine. What did he mean by that 'Nearly there
'? Although he did not actually stir, he gave me the impression of concentration now, and at
a word from him the sailor awoke and shot a rapid glance at me, as though doubtful whether
he would find me still in the boat. I was beginning to wonder whether I should be a match for
the two of them, when my companion, leaving the tiller, made a step towards me with a handkerchief
he had drawn from his pocket; the sailor pinioned my arms from behind, and no sooner had I
recognised the peculiar smell of chloroform than I was insensible and inert between them.

"It was very neatly done. I might have trusted him to carry out neatly whatever he undertook.
Even over that he compelled my angry admiration. So neat! the fiend, the devil, he had got
the better of me before I had had the chance to put up even the feeblest struggle. I curse
myself now for my silly bravado in accompanying him when he asked me. I might have known I
wasn't a match for him. But I'll be even with him yet," he said, his nervous hands fumbling
at his collar, "I'll be even with him yet; I'll bide my time," and never was vindictiveness
more savage in human eyes.

"He didn't allow me to come to my senses until he had carried out his purpose. When I opened
my eyes I was inside the cage of the buoy, with the bell swinging gently to and fro above my head.

