The young man extended his hands in a deprecating gesture. Could Mr. Wyant blame him? He was
young, he was ardent, he was enamored! The young lady had done him the supreme honor of avowing
her attachment, of pledging her unalterable fidelity; should he suffer his devotion to be outdone?
But his purpose in writing to her, he admitted, was not merely to reiterate his fidelity; he
was trying by every means in his power to induce her to sell the picture. He had organized
a plan of action; every detail was complete; if she would but have the courage to carry out
his instructions he would answer for the result. His idea was that she should secretly retire
to a convent of which his aunt was the Mother Superior, and from that stronghold should transact
the sale of the Leonardo. He had a purchaser ready, who was willing to pay a large sum; a sum,
Count Ottaviano whispered, considerably in excess of the young lady's original inheritance;
once the picture sold, it could, if necessary, be removed by force from Doctor Lombard's house,
and his daughter, being safely in the convent, would be spared the painful scenes incidental
to the removal. Finally, if Doctor Lombard were vindictive enough to refuse his consent to
her marriage, she had only to make a sommation respectueuse, and at the end of the prescribed
delay no power on earth could prevent her becoming the wife of Count Ottaviano.

Wyant's anger had fallen at the recital of this simple romance. It was absurd to be angry with
a young man who confided his secrets to the first stranger he met in the streets, and placed
his hand on his heart whenever he mentioned the name of his betrothed. The easiest way out
of the business was to take it as a joke. Wyant had played the wall to this new Pyramus and
Thisbe, and was philosophic enough to laugh at the part he had unwittingly performed.

He held out his hand with a smile to Count Ottaviano.

"I won't deprive you any longer," he said, "of the pleasure of reading your letter."

"Oh, sir, a thousand thanks! And when you return to the casa Lombard, you will take a message
from me--the letter she expected this afternoon?"

"The letter she expected?" Wyant paused. "No, thank you. I thought you understood that where
I come from we don't do that kind of thing--knowingly."

"But, sir, to serve a young lady!"

"I'm sorry for the young lady, if what you tell me is true"--the Count's expressive hands resented
the doubt--"but remember that if I am under obligations to any one in this matter, it is to
her father, who has admitted me to his house and has allowed me to see his picture."

"HIS picture? Hers!"

"Well, the house is his, at all events."

"Unhappily--since to her it is a dungeon!"

"Why doesn't she leave it, then?" exclaimed Wyant impatiently.

The Count clasped his hands. "Ah, how you say that--with what force, with what virility! If
you would but say it to HER in that tone--you, her countryman! She has no one to advise her;
the mother is an idiot; the father is terrible; she is in his power; it is my belief that he
would kill her if she resisted him. Mr. Wyant, I tremble for her life while she remains in
that house!"

"Oh, come," said Wyant lightly, "they seem to understand each other well enough. But in any
case, you must see that I can't interfere--at least you would if you were an Englishman," he
added with an escape of contempt.

III

Wyant's affiliations in Siena being restricted to an acquaintance with his land-lady, he was
forced to apply to her for the verification of Count Ottaviano's story.

The young nobleman had, it appeared, given a perfectly correct account of his situation. His
father, Count Celsi-Mongirone, was a man of distinguished family and some wealth. He was syndic
of Orvieto, and lived either in that town or on his neighboring estate of Mongirone. His wife
owned a large property near Siena, and Count Ottaviano, who was the second son, came there
from time to time to look into its management. The eldest son was in the army, the youngest
in the Church; and an aunt of Count Ottaviano's was Mother Superior of the Visitandine convent
in Siena. At one time it had been said that Count Ottaviano, who was a most amiable and accomplished
young man, was to marry the daughter of the strange Englishman, Doctor Lombard, but difficulties
having arisen as to the adjustment of the young lady's dower, Count Celsi-Mongirone had very
properly broken off the match. It was sad for the young man, however, who was said to be deeply
in love, and to find frequent excuses for coming to Siena to inspect his mother's estate.

Viewed in the light of Count Ottaviano's personality the story had a tinge of opera bouffe;
but the next morning, as Wyant mounted the stairs of the House of the Dead Hand, the situation
insensibly assumed another aspect. It was impossible to take Doctor Lombard lightly; and there
was a suggestion of fatality in the appearance of his gaunt dwelling. Who could tell amid what
tragic records of domestic tyranny and fluttering broken purposes the little drama of Miss
Lombard's fate was being played out? Might not the accumulated influences of such a house modify
the lives within it in a manner unguessed by the inmates of a suburban villa with sanitary
plumbing and a telephone?

One person, at least, remained unperturbed by such fanciful problems; and that was Mrs. Lombard,
who, at Wyant's entrance, raised a placidly wrinkled brow from her knitting. The morning was
mild, and her chair had been wheeled into a bar of sunshine near the window, so that she made
a cheerful spot of prose in the poetic gloom of her surroundings.

"What a nice morning!" she said; "it must be delightful weather at Bonchurch."

Her dull blue glance wandered across the narrow street with its threatening house fronts, and
fluttered back baffled, like a bird with clipped wings. It was evident, poor lady, that she
had never seen beyond the opposite houses.

Wyant was not sorry to find her alone. Seeing that she was surprised at his reappearance he
said at once: "I have come back to study Miss Lombard's picture."

"Oh, the picture--" Mrs. Lombard's face expressed a gentle disappointment, which might have
been boredom in a person of acuter sensibilities. "It's an original Leonardo, you know," she
said mechanically.

"And Miss Lombard is very proud of it, I suppose? She seems to have inherited her father's
love for art."

Mrs. Lombard counted her stitches, and he went on: "It's unusual in so young a girl. Such tastes
generally develop later."

Mrs. Lombard looked up eagerly. "That's what I say! I was quite different at her age, you know.
I liked dancing, and doing a pretty bit of fancy-work. Not that I couldn't sketch, too; I had
a master down from London. My aunts have some of my crayons hung up in their drawing-room now--I
did a view of Kenilworth which was thought pleasing. But I liked a picnic, too, or a pretty
walk through the woods with young people of my own age. I say it's more natural, Mr. Wyant;
one may have a feeling for art, and do crayons that are worth framing, and yet not give up
everything else. I was taught that there were other things."

Wyant, half-ashamed of provoking these innocent confidences, could not resist another question.
"And Miss Lombard cares for nothing else?"

Her mother looked troubled.

