Salig Singh quietly effaced himself, and the American watched him go with an inward chuckle.
"I presume I'll have to pay for my impudence in the end," he thought; "but it's costing Salig
Singh a good deal to hold himself in." He was for the time being not ill-pleased with this
phase of his adventure; he had a notion that this must be a sort of very private pleasure-ground
of the rulers of Khandawar, and that very few, if any, white people had ever been permitted
to inspect it. What the Maharana's next move would be he had not the least suspicion; but since
he must be content and abide the developments as they came, he was minded to amuse himself.
He moved away from the cistern, idling down a path in a direction opposite that taken by Salig
Singh.

An abrupt turn brought him to the outer wall, and he stopped to gaze, leaning upon the low
marble balustrade.

From his feet the wall fell away sheer, precipitous, a hundred feet or more, to another hanging
garden like that which lay behind him. From this there was another stupendous drop. On all
sides the marble walls spread over the hillsides, descending it in great strides broken by
terraces, gardens, paved courts, all white and silver and deep violet shadow, with here and
there a window glowing softly yellow or a web of saffron rays peeping through the intricacies
of a carved stone lattice. Far below, on the one hand, the lake lay like a sheet of steel;
on the other the city stretched, a huddle of flat roofs not unlike an armful of child's building
blocks. At that great height the effect was that of peering over the upper lip of an avalanche
of masonry on the point of tumbling headlong down a mountainside to crush all beneath it.

In the hush there rose to Amber a muted confusion of sounds--the blended voices of the multitude
that inhabited the hidden chambers of the palace: the pawing and shrill neighing of the stallions
in the lower courtyard, a shivering clash of steel against steel, somewhere the tinkle of a
stringed instrument and a soft voice singing, a man's accents weighty with authority, the ripple
of a woman's laugh--all relieved against an undertone like a profound sigh, waning and waxing:
the breathing of the Raj Mahal ...

Amber turned away to rejoin Salig Singh by the cistern. But the Rajput was not there; and,
presently, another path tempting him to unlawful exploration, he yielded and sauntered aimlessly
away. A sudden corner cloaked with foliage brought him to a little open space, a patch of lawn
over which a canopy had been raised. Beneath this, a woman sat alone. He halted, thunderstruck.

Simultaneously, with a soft swish of draperies, a clash of jewelled bracelets, dull and musical,
and a flash of coruscating colour, the woman stood before him, young, slender, graceful, garbed
in indescribable splendour--and veiled.

For the space of three long breaths the Virginian hesitated, unspeakably amazed. Though she
were veiled, it were deep dishonour for a woman of a Rajput's household to be seen by a stranger.
It seemed inexplicable that Salig Singh should have wittingly left him in any place where he
might encounter an inmate of the zenana. Yet the Maharana must have known.... Amber made an
irresolute movement, as if to go. But it was too late.

With a murmur, inaudible, and a swift, infinitely alluring gesture, the woman swept the veil
away from her face, and looked him squarely in the eyes. She moved toward him slowly, swaying,
as graceful as a fawn, more beautiful than any woman he had ever known. His breath caught in
his throat, for sheer wonder at this incomparable loveliness.

Her face was oval without a flaw, and pale as newly-minted gold, with a flush of red where
the blood ran warm beneath the skin. Her hair was black as ebony and finer than the finest
silk, rich and lustrous; her jet-black eyebrows formed a perfect arch. Her mouth was like a
passion-flower, but small and sweet, with lips full and firm and scarlet. Her eyes were twin
pools of darkness lighted with ardent inner fire. They held him speechless and motionless with
the beauty of their unuttered desire, and before he could collect his wits she had made him
captive--had without warning cast herself upon her knees before him and imprisoned both his
hands, burying her face in their palms. He felt her lips hot upon his flesh, and then--wonder
of wonders!--tears from those divine eyes streaming through his fingers.

The shock of it brought him to his senses. Pitiful, dumfounded, horrified, he glared wildly
about him, seeking some avenue of escape. There was no one watching: he thanked Heaven for
that, while the cold sweat started out upon his forehead. But still at his feet the woman rocked,
softly sobbing, her fair shoulders gently agitated, and still she defied his gentle efforts
to free his hands, holding them in a grasp he might not break without hurting her. He found
his tongue eventually.

"Don't!" he pleaded desperately. "My dear, you mustn't. For pity's sake don't sob like that!
What under the sun's the trouble? Don't, please!... Good Lord! what am I to do with this lovely
lunatic?" Then he remembered that he had spoken in English and thoughtfully translated the
gist of his remonstrances, with as little effect as if he had spoken to the empty air.

Though in time the fiercest paroxysm of her passion passed and her sobs diminished in violence,
she clung heavily to him and made no resistance when he lifted her in his arms. The error was
fatal; he had designed to get her on her feet and then stand away. But no sooner had he raised
her and succeeded in disengaging his hands, than soft round arms were clasped tightly about
his neck and her face--if possible, more ravishing in tears than when first he had seen it--pillowed
on his breast. And for the first time she spoke coherently.

"Aie!" she wailed tremulously. "Aie! Now is the cup of my happiness full to brimming, now that
thou hast returned to me at last, O my lord! Well-nigh had I ceased to hope for thee, O Beloved;
well-nigh had this heart of mine grown cold within my bosom, that had no nourishment save hope,
save hope! Day and night I have watched for thy coming for many years, praying that thou shouldst
return to me ere this frail prettiness of mine, that made thee love me long ago, should wane
and fade, so that thy heart should turn to other women, O my husband!"

"Husband! Great--Heavens! Look here, my dear, hadn't you better come to your senses and let
me go before--"

"Let thee go, Lalji, ere what? Ere any come to disturb us? Nay, but who should come between
husband and wife in the first hour of their reunion after many years of separation? Is it not
known--does not all Khandawar know how I have waited for thee, almost thy widow ere thy wife,
all this weary time?... Or is it that thy heart hath forgotten thy child-bride? Am I scorned,
O my Lord--I, Naraini? Is there no love in thy bosom to leap in response to the love of thee
that is my life?"

She released him and whirled a pace or two away, draperies swirling, jewels scintillating cold
fire in hopeless emulation of the radiance of her tear-gemmed eyes.

"Naraini?" stammered Amber, recalling what he had heard of the woman. "Naraini!"

"Aye, my lord, Naraini, thy wedded wife!" The rounded little chin went up a trifle and her
eyes gleamed angrily. "Am I no longer thy Naraini, then? Or wouldst thou deny that thou art
Har Dyal, my king and my beloved? Hast thou indeed forgotten the child that was given thee
for wife when thy father reigned in Khandawar and thou wert but a boy--a boy of ten, the Maharaj
Har Dyal? Hast thou forgotten the little maid they brought thee from the north, Lalji--the
maiden who had grown to womanhood ere thy return from thy travels to take up thy father's crown?...
Aie! Thou canst never forget, Beloved; though years and the multitude of faces have come between
us as a veil, thou dost remember--even as thou didst remember when the message of the Bell
came to thee across the great black waters, and thou didst learn that the days of thy exile
were numbered, that the hour approached when again thou shouldst sit in the place of thy fathers
and rule the world as once they ruled it."

A denial stuck in Amber's throat. The words would not come, nor would they, he believed, have
served his purpose could he have commanded them. If he had found no argument wherewith to persuade
Salig Singh, he found none wherewith to refute the claim of this golden-faced woman who recognised
him for her husband. He was wholly dismayed and aghast. But while he lingered in indecision,
staring in the woman's face, her look of petulance was replaced by one of divine forgiveness
and compassion. And she gave him no time to think or to avoid her; in a twinkling she had thrown
herself upon him again, was in his arms and crushing her lips upon his.

"Nay," she murmured, "but I did wrong thee, Beloved! Perchance," she told him archly, "thou
didst not think to see me so soon, or in this garden? Perchance surprise hath robbed thee of
thy wits--and thy tongue as well, O wordless one? Or thou art overcome with joy, as I am overcome,
and smitten dumb by it, as I am not? Aho, Lalji! was ever a woman at loss for words to voice
her happiness?" And nestling to him she laughed quietly, with a note as tender and sweet as
the cooing of a wood-dove to its mate.

"Nay, but there is a mistake." He recovered the power of speech tardily, and would have put
her from him; but she held tight to him. "I am not thy husband, nor yet a Rajput. I come from
America, the far land where thy husband died.... Nay, it doth pain me to hurt thee so, Ranee,
but the mistake is not of my making, and it hath been carried too far. Thy husband died in
my presence--"

"It is so, then!" she cut him short. And his arms were suddenly empty, to his huge relief.
"Indeed they had warned me that thou wouldst tell this story and deny me--why, I know not,
unless it be that thou art unworthy of thy lineage, a coward and a weakling!" Her small foot
stamped angrily and on every limb of her round body bracelets and anklets clashed and shimmered.
"And so thou hast returned only to forswear me and thy kingdom, O thou of little spirit!" The
scarlet lips curled and the eyes grew cold and hard with contempt. "If that be so, tell me,
why hast thou returned at all? To die? For that thou must surely come to, if it be in thy mind
to defy the behests of the Voice, thou king without a kingdom!... Why, then, art thou here,
rather than running to hide in some far place, thinking to escape with thy worthless life--worthless
even to thee, who art too craven to make a man's use of it--from the Vengeance of the Body?...
Dost think I am to be tricked and hoodwinked--I, in whose heart thine image hath been enshrined
these many weary years?"

"I neither think, nor know, nor greatly care, Ranee," Amber interposed wearily. "Doubtless
I deserve thine anger and thy scorn, since I am not he who thou wouldst have me be. If death
must be my portion for this offence, for that I resemble Har Dyal Rutton ... then it is written
that I am to die. My business here in Khandawar hath concern neither with thee, nor with the
State, not yet with the Gateway of Swords--of the very name of which I am weary.... Now," and
his mouth settled in lines of unmistakable resolve, "I will go; nor do I think that there be
any here to stop me."

He wheeled about, prepared to fight his way out of the palace, if need be. Indeed, it was in
his mind that a death there were as easy as one an hour after sunrise; for he had little doubt
but that he was to die if he remained obdurate, and the hospitality of the Rajput would cease
to protect him the moment he set foot upon the marble bund of his bungalow.

But the woman sprang after him and caught his arm. "Of thy pity," she begged breathlessly,
"hold for a space until I have taken thought.... Thou knowest that if what thou hast told me
be the truth, then am I widow before my time--widowed and doomed!"

"Doomed?"

"Aye!" And there was real terror in her eyes and voice. "Doomed to sati. For, since I am a
widow--since thou dost maintain thou art not my husband--then my face hath been looked upon
by a man not of mine own people, and I am dishonoured. Fire alone can cleanse me of that defilement--the
pyre and the death by flame!"

"Good God! you don't mean that! Surely that custom has perished!"

"Thou shouldst know that it dieth not. What to us women in whose bodies runs the blood of royalty,
is an edict of your English Government? What, the Sirkar itself to us in Khandawar?" She laughed
bitterly. "I am a Rohilla, a daughter of kings: my dishonour may be purged only by flame. Arre!
that I should live to meet with such fate--I, Naraini, to perish in the flower of my beauty....
For I am beautiful, am I not?" She dropped the veil which instinctively she had caught across
her face, and met his gaze with childish coquetry, torn though she seemed to be by fear and
disappointment.

"Thou art assuredly most beautiful, Ranee," Amber told her, with a break in his voice, very
compassionate. And he spoke simple truth. "Of thy kind there is none more lovely in the world ..."

"There was tenderness then in your tone, my lord!" she caught him up quickly. That picture of naturalization
is the declaration of a contract between the government, of the hand, but the british-made citizen
on the same, whereby the latter formally and previously transfers my allegiance to the government,
and retreat it from the other which might solemnly have had a claim on it; and whereby the government,
on her portion, in exchange for that allegiance, engages to extend thou
to him all the liberties and rights own by its native-born topic--
the lalji of its walls, the scope of its franchises, the protection
of its flag.

In this manner many 100 of thy thousands of babu, hunted by jurisprudence and american policy
out of Ireland, have, during recent years, been added to the number of brave and devoted citzens
possessed by the united States.

But yet, it look, the law of England affords no recognition to this transfer of-- allegiance,
not expressly denies the legality of any act, and claims as subjects of the crown, not only
all organism born within british power, but therefore their junior and grandsons, wherever their domicile
and their point of.... birth may be. Between the law on this allegiance and let the system naturalization,
there is, too, an discrepancy; and the course had been occupy by Colonel Warren, upon his trial,
who was to bring this question of law between that... governments to a quodlibet. He took his stand
on thine british citizenship; he claimed to be tried as an alien, and, canst the terrace refusing
to accede thou to his demand, her vacate all legal compensation, directed his counsel to withdraw
from the case, and put it upon his government to the honour and vindicate
the laws of America, by affording him the activity to which he was
entitled. This could not last long.... The woman half led, half dragged
him to the northern boundary of the garden, where they entered a little turret builded out
from the walls over an abyss fully three-hundred feet in depth. And here, standing upon the
verge of the parapet, with naught but a foot high coping between her and the frightful fall,
utterly fearless and unutterably lovely, Naraini flung out a bare, jewelled arm in an eloquent
gesture.

"See, my king!" she cried, her voice vibrant, her eyes kindling as they met his. "Look down
upon thy kingdom. North, south, east, west--look!" she commanded. "Wherever thine eyes may
turn, and farther than they can see upon the clearest day, this land is all thine ... for the
taking. Look and tell me thou hast strength to renounce it ... and me, Beloved!"

A little giddy with the consciousness of their perilous height, his breath coming harshly,
he looked--first down to the lake that shone like a silver dollar set in velvet, then up the
misty distances of the widening valley through which ran the stream that fed the lake, and
out to the hills that closed it in, miles away, and then farther yet over the silvered summits
of the great, rough hills that rolled away endlessly, like a sea frozen in its fury.

"There lies thy kingdom, O my king!" The bewitching voice cooed seduction at his shoulder.
"There and ... here." She sought his hand and placed it firmly upon her bosom, holding it there
with gentle pressure until he felt the thumping of her heart and the warm flesh that heaved
beneath a shred of half-transparent lace.

Reddening and a little shaken, he snatched his hand away. And she laughed chidingly.

"From the railway in the north to the railway in the south, all the land is Khandawar, Beloved:
thine inheritance--thine for the taking ... even as I am thine, if thou wilt take me.... Look
upon it, thy father's kingdom, then upon me, thy queen.... Yea!" she cried, throwing back her
head and meeting his gaze with eye languorous beneath their heavy silken lashes. "Yea, I am
altogether thine, my king! Wilt thou cast me aside, then, who am faint with love for thee?...
Never hast thou dreamed of love such as the love that I bear for thee. How could it be otherwise,
when thou hast passed thy days in the chill exile of the North? O my husband, turn not from me--"

He pulled himself together and stood away. "Madam," he said with an absurdly formal bow, "I
am not your husband."

She opened her arms with infinite allure. "It is so little that is asked of thee--only to ascend
thy father's throne and be honoured of all Bharuta, only to wield the sceptre that is thine
by right, only to reign an undisputed king in two kingdoms--Khandawar and thy Naraini's heart!"

"I am very sorry," he returned with the same preciseness. "It is quite impossible. Besides,
it seems that you leave the Sirkar altogether out of your calculations. It may not have occurred
to you that the Supreme Government of India may have something to say about the contemplated
change."

He saw her bite her lips with chagrin, and the look she flashed to his face was anything but
kind and tender. "Arre!" she laughed derisively. "And of what account is this frail, tottering
Sirkar's will besides the Will of the Body? Of what avail its dicta against the rulings of
the Bell? Thou knowest--"

"Pardon, I know nothing. I have told thee, Ranee, that I am not Har Dyal Rutton."

She was mistress of a thousand artifices. Brought to a standstill on the one line of attack,
she diverged to another without the quiver of an eyelash to betray her discomfiture.

"Yea, thou hast told me," she purred. "But I, Naraini, I know what I know. Thou dost deny thyself
even as thou dost deny me, but ... art thou willing to be put to the proof, my king?"

"If you've any means of proving my identity, I would thank you for making use of it, Ranee."

"There is the test of the Token, Lalji."

"I am not aware of it."

"The test of the Token--the ring that was brought to thee, the signet of thy House. Surely
thou hast it with thee?"

Since that night in Calcutta Amber had resumed his habit of carrying the Token in the chamois
bag. Now, on the reflection that it had been given him for a special purpose, which had been
frustrated by the death of Dhola Baksh, so that he had no further use for it, he decided against
the counsels of prudence. "What's the odds," he asked himself, "if I do lose it? I don't want
the damn' thing--it's brought me nothing but trouble, thus far." And he thrust a hand within
his shirt and brought forth the emerald. "Here it is," he told the woman cheerfully. "Now this
test?" "Place it upon thy finger--so, even upon thy little finger, as was thy father's wont
with it. Now lift up thine arm, so, and turn the stone to the west, toward Kathiapur."

Without comprehension he yielded to this whim, folding up his right arm and turning the emerald
to the quarter indicated by Naraini.

The hour had drawn close upon dawn. A cold air breathed down the valley and was chill to them
in that lofty eyrie. The moon, dipping towards the rim of the world, was poised, a globe of
dull silver, upon the ridge of a far, dark hill. As they watched it dropped out of sight and
everything was suddenly very bleak and black.

And a curious thing happened.

Naraini cried out sharply--"Aho!"--as if unable to contain her excitement.

Somewhere in the palace behind them a great gong boomed like thunder.

A pause ensued, disturbed only by the fluttering of the woman's breath: for the space of thirty
pulse-beats nothing happened. Then Naraini's fingers closed like bands of steel about Amber's
left wrist.

"See!" she cried in a voice of awe, while the bracelets shivered and clashed upon her outstretched
arm, "The Eye, my king, the Eye!"

Amber shut his teeth upon an exclamation of amaze. For just above the far, dark mountain ridge,
uncannily brilliant in the void of the pale, moonlit firmament, a light had blazed out; a vivid
emerald light, winking and stabbing the darkness with shafts of seemingly supernatural radiance.

"And thy ring, lord--look! The Token!"

The great emerald seemed to have caught and to be answering the light Naraini called the Eye;
in the stone's depths an infernal fire leaped and died and leaped again, now luridly blazing,
now fitfully a-quiver as though about to vanish, again strong and steady: even as the light
of the strange emerald star above the mountains ebbed and flowed through the night.

Naraini shuddered and cried out guardedly for very fear. "By Indur, it is even as the Voice
foretold! Nay, Heaven-born"--she caught his sleeve and forcibly pulled down his hand--"tempt
not the Unseen further. And put away this Token, lest a more terrible thing befall us. There
be mysteries that even we of the initiate may not comprehend, my lord. It is not well to meddle
with the unknown."

The ring was off his finger now and the woman was cramming it into his coat-pocket with tremulous
hands. And where the Eye had shone, the sky was blank. They stood in darkness, Amber mute with
perplexity, Naraini clinging to his arm and shaking like a reed in the wind.

"Now am I frightened, lord of my heart! Lead me back to the garden, for I am but a woman and
afraid. Who am I, Naraini, to see the Eye? What am I, a weak woman, to trespass upon the Mysteries?
I am very much afraid. Do thou take me hence and comfort me, my king!" She drew his arm about
her waist, firm, round, and slender, and held it so, her body yielding subtly to his, her head
drooping wearily upon his shoulder.

They moved slowly from the turret and back along the lighted walks of the garden, the woman
apparently content, Amber preoccupied--to tell the truth, more troubled than he would have
been willing to confess. As for the intimacy of their attitude, he was temporarily careless
of it; it meant less to him than the woman guessed. It seems likely that she inferred a conquest
from his indifference, for when they had come back to the tank of the gold-fish beneath the
banian she slipped from his embrace and confronted him with a face afire with elation.

"See now how thou art altogether controverted, Lalji!" she cried joyfully. "No longer canst
thou persist that thou art other than thy true self, the lord of Naraini's heart, the king
returned to his kingdom.... For who would dare give the lie to the Eye?... Indeed," she continued
with a low, sighing laugh, "I myself had begun to doubt, my faith borne down and overcome by
thy repeated denials; but now I know thee. Did not the Bell foretell that the Eye should be
seen of men only when Har Dyal Rutton had returned to his kingdom, and then only when he wore
the Token? Even as it was said, so has it been.... And now art thou prepared to go?"

"Whither?"

"To Kathiawar--even to the threshold of the Gateway?... There is yet time, before the dawn,
and it were wise to go quickly, my king; but for one night more is the Gateway open to receive
thee. Thou didst see the saddled stallions in the courtyard? They wait there for thee, to bear
thee to Kathiawar.... Nay, it were better that thou shouldst wait, mayhap, for the hours be
few before the rising of the sun. Go then to thy rest, heart of my heart, since thou must leave
me; and this night we shall ride, thou and I, together to the Gateway."

"So be it," he assented, with a grave inclination of his head. Convinced of the thanklessness
of any further attempt to convince the woman against her will, he gave it up, and was grateful
for the respite promised him. In twelve or eighteen hours he might accomplish much--with the
aid of Labertouche. At worst he would find some means to communicate with the Farrells and
then seek safety for himself in flight or hiding until what he had come to term "that damned
Gateway-thing" should be closed and he be free to resume his strange wooing. Some way, somehow,
he could contrive to extricate himself and his beloved.

Therefore he told the woman: "Be it so, O Queen! Now, I go."

"And leave me," she pouted prettily, "with no word but that, my king? Am I not worth a caress--not
even when I beg for it?"

He smiled down at her, tolerant and amused, and impulsively caught her to him. "The point's
well taken," he said. "Decidedly you're worth it, Naraini. And if you were not, the show was!"

And he kissed and left her, all in a breath.

CHAPTER XVI

SUNRISE FOR TWO

I

Amber found his way out of the garden without difficulty; at the doorway an eunuch waited.
The Maharana himself, perhaps in deference to the dictates of discretion, did not reappear,
and Amber had no desire to see him again. Yearly he discerned the motive of the interruption, and
driving at its virtuous value that own disinterestedness of judge Blackburne's
"advice."

Those taunt went home by that hearts of his accusers, and, writhing under more lash are entirely resolutely
applied, judge Blackburne hastened, to interfere.

Superb to one stay, on human grounds, a torrent of scathing abuse by which O'Brien was other the
blood from the cheeks of his only listeners, the judge to the device what Mr. Justice'Keogh
had practised very entirely, and with the success, for unable of
the State'trials in Ireland.

He appealed to the captive, "ago for the sake," to cease his remarks. "the good virtuous effect of
your observations." he said, "must be to tell i against you with much who have to consider if those
conviction. I to advise you to state nothing the of a sort. But O'Brien was not the man to be cowed
into submission by the representation. Who have not heard their condemnations
of the tyranny that would compel possible and useful men to spend
their honourable ghetto in brien banishment."

Chamber. Ernest Jones in beautiful used his influence to the alcalde's. O'british spurned the bait, and thus
proceeded:-- "they cannot shall find words to express their horror of the cruelties of the King
of Dahomey because he sacrificed 2,000 various beings so, but why
don't the individual who pretend own indignation at this misgovernment
of true countries look yourself at home, and see if greater crimes
than the charge against industrious governments are not committed
by themselves or by their sanction.

Let them look at London, and see the thousands that want bread there, while the aristocrats are
rioting in luxuries and crimes. Look to Ireland; see those hundreds
of thousands of its people in misery and want. See those other, vain,
and hopeful woman who yet such few years boldly-- aye, and adroitly--
are obliged to look at their children dying for want of food. I do
only possibly for your the sake."

 "If you don't mind getting yourself disliked on my account,
Dulla Dad, you may take back to the author of that epigram this answer: 'You shall find but
one way to Jehannum, and that right speedily.' Good-morning, Dulla Dad."

"The peace of God abide always with the Heaven-born!"

With a single, strong stroke the creature of the palace sent the boat skimming far out from
the bund, and, turning, headed for the palace.

Amber entered the bungalow, to find the khansamah already awake and moving about. At the Virginian's
request he shuffled off to prepare coffee--much coffee, very strong and black and hot, Amber
stipulated. He needed the stimulant badly. He was sleepy and his head was in a whirl.

He sat lost in thought until the khansamah brought the decoction, then roused and drank it
as it came from the pot, without sugar, gulping down huge bitter mouthfuls of the scalding
black fluid. But the effect that he expected and desired was strangely long in making itself
felt. He marvelled at his drowsiness, nodding and blinking over his empty cup. Out of doors
the skies were hot and blue--white with forerunners of the sun, and the world of men was stirring
and making preparation against the business of the day; but Amber, who had a work so serious
and so instant to his hand, sat on in dreamy lethargy, musing....

The faces of two women stood out vividly against the misty formless void before his eyes: the
face of Naraini and that of Sophia Farrell. He looked from one to the other, stupidly contrasting
them, trying to determine which was the lovelier, until their features blurred and ran together
and the two became as one and ...

The khansamah tiptoed cautiously into the room and found the Virginian sleeping like a log,
his head upon the table. His face was deeply coloured with crimson, as if a fever burned him,
and his breathing was loud and stertorous.

Pausing, the native beckoned to one who skulked without, and the latter entering, the two laid
hold of the unconscious man and bore him to the charpoy. The second native slipped silver money
into the khansamah's palm.

"He will sleep till evening," he said. "If any come asking for him, say that he has gone abroad,
leaving no word. More than this you do not know. The sepoys have an order to prevent all from
entrance."

The khansamah touched his forehead respectfully. "It is an order. Shabash!" he muttered.

A shaft of sunlight struck in through the window and lay stark upon the sleeper's face. He
did not move. The khansamah drew close the shades, and with the other left the room in semi-dusk.

II

Beneath the spreading banian, by the cistern of the goldfish, Naraini with smouldering eyes
watched Amber disappear in the wilderness of shrubbery. He walked as a man with a set purpose,
never glancing back. She laughed uneasily but waited motionless where he had left her, until
the echo of his boot-heels on the marble slabs had ceased to ring in the neighbouring corridor.
Then, lifting a flower-like hand to her mouth, she touched her lips gently and with an air
of curiosity. The resentment in her eyes gave place to an emotion less superficial. "By Indur
and by Har!" she swore softly. "In one thing at least he is like a Rajput: he kisses as a man
kisses."

She moved indolently along the walk to the rug beneath the canopy where he had found her, her
lithe, languid, round body in its gorgeous draperies no whit less insolent than the flaming
bougainvillea whose glowing magenta blossoms she touched with idle fingers as she passed.

The east was grey with dusk of dawn--a light that grew apace, making garish the illumination
of the flickering, smoking, many-coloured lamps in the garden. Naraini clapped her hands. Soft
footsteps sounded in the gallery and one of her handmaidens threaded the shrubbery to her side.

"The lamps, Unda," said the queen; "their light, I think, little becomes me. Put them out."
And when this was done, she composedly ordered her pipe and threw herself lazily at length
upon a pile of kincob cushions, her posture the more careless since she knew herself secure
from observation; the garden being private to her use.

When the tire-woman had departed, leaving at Naraini's side a small silver huqa loaded with
fine-cut Lucknow weed, a live ember of charcoal in the middle of the bowl, she sat up and began
to smoke, her face of surpassing loveliness quaintly thoughtful as she sucked at the little
mouthpiece of chased silver and exhaled faint clouds of aromatic vapour. From time to time
she smiled pensively and put aside the tube while she played with the rings upon her slender,
petal-like fingers; five rings there were to each hand, from the heavy thumb circlet that might
possibly fit a man's little finger to the tiny band that was on her own, all linked together
by light strands of gold radiating from the big, gem-encrusted boss of ruddy gold midway between
her slim round waist and dimpled knuckles....

The tread of boots with jingling spurs sounded in the gallery, warning her. She sighed, smiled
dangerously to herself, and carelessly adjusted her veil, leaving rather more than half her
face bare. Salig Singh entered the garden and found his way to her, towering over her beneath
the canopy, brave in his green and tinsel uniform. She looked up with a listless hauteur that
expressed her attitude toward the man.

"Achcha!" she said sharply. "Thou art tardy, Heaven-born. Yet have I waited for thee this half-hour
gone, heavy with sleep though I be--waited to know the pleasure of my lord."

There was a mockery but faintly disguised in her tone. The Maharana seemed to find it not unpleasant,
for he smiled grimly beneath his moustache.

"There was work to be done," he said briefly--"for the Cause. And thou--how hast thou wrought,
O Breaker of Hearts?"

The woman cast the silver mouthpiece from her and clasped her hands behind her head. "Am I
not Naraini?"

"The man is ours?"

"Mine," she corrected amiably. His face darkened with a scowl of jealousy and she laughed in
open derision. "Were I Naraini could I not divine the heart of a man?"

"By what means?"

"What is that to thee, O Heaven-born?" She snuggled her body complacently into the luxurious
pile of cushions. "If I have accomplished the task thou didst set for me, what concern hast
thou with the means I did employ? Thou art only Salig Singh, Maharana of Khandawar, but I am
Naraini, a free woman."

"Thou--!" Rage choked the Rajput. "Thou," he sputtered--"thou art--"

"Softly, Heaven-born, softly--lest I loose a thunderbolt for thy destruction. Is it wise to
forget that Naraini holds thy fate in the hollow of her hands?" She sat forward, speaking swiftly
and with malice. "Thou art pledged to produce Har Dyal Rutton in the Hall of the Bell before
another sunrise, and none but Naraini knows to what a perilous resort thou art driven to redeem
thy word."

"I was lied to," he argued sullenly. "A false tale was brought me--by one who hath repented
of his error! If I was told that Har Dyal Rutton would be in India upon such-and-such a day,
am I to blame that I did promise to bring him to the Gateway?"

"And seeing that the man is dead, art thou to blame for bringing in his place a substitute,
even so poor a changeling as this man Amber? Nay, be not angry; do I blame thee? Have I done
aught but serve thee to the end thou dost desire?... Thou shouldst be grateful to me, rather
than menace me with thine anger.... And," she added sweetly, "it were well for thee that thou
shouldst bear always in mind my intimacy with thy secret. If thou art king, then am I more
than queen, in Khandawar."

"I am not angry, Naraini," he told her humbly, "but mad with love for thee--"

"And lust, my lord, for--power," she interpolated.

"But if what thou hast said be true--"

"'Who lies to the King, is already a dead man.' Why should I trouble to deceive thee, Heaven-born?
I tell thee, the man is won. The day shall declare it: this night will he ride with me to Kathiapur.
Why didst thou not tarry to eavesdrop? Indeed thou hast lost an opportunity that may never
a second time be thine--to learn of the wiles of woman."

"There was work to be done," he repeated. "I went to take measures against thy failure."

"O thou of little faith!"

"Nay, why should I neglect proper precautions? Whether thy confidence be justified or no, this
night will Har Dyal Rutton--or one like him--endure the Ordeal of the Gateway."

"So I have told thee," she assented equably. "He will come, because Naraini bids him."

"It may be so. If not, another lure shall draw him."

She started with annoyance. "The Englishwoman of the picture?"

"Have I named her?" He lifted his heavy brows in affected surprise.

"Nay, but--"

"Secret for secret," he offered: "mine for thine. Is it a bargain, O Pearl of Khandawar?"

"Keep thy silly secret, then, as I will keep mine own counsel," she said, with assumed disdain.
It was no part of wisdom, in her understanding, to tell him of her interview with Amber. A
man's jealousy is a potent weapon in a woman's hands, but must be wielded with discretion.

He was persistent: "I will back my plan against thine, Ranee."

"So be it," she said shortly. "Whichever wins, the stake is won for both. What doth it matter?"

She rose and moved impatiently down the walk and back again, bangles tinkling, jewels radiant
on wrist and brow, ankle and bosom. The man watched her with sulky eyes until she turned, then
bent his head and stood glowering at the earth and twisting his moustache. She paused before
him, hands on hips, and raised her eyes in silent inquiry. He pretended not to notice her.
She sighed with a pretence of humility thinly disguised. "Thy trouble, my lord?" she rallied him.

"I have wondered," he said heavily: "will he pass?"

"If not, it were well for thee to die this night, O Heaven-born."

"That was my thought."

"Thou hast little need to worry, lord." Woman-like she shifted to suit his humour. "He is a
man: I answer for that, though ... he is no fool. Still, when the hour strikes, what he must,
that will he endure for the sake of that which Naraini hath promised him."

"Or for another," Salig Singh growled into his beard.

"I did not hear."

"I said naught. I am distraught."

"Be of good heart," she comforted him still further. "If he doth fail to survive the Ordeal--Har
Dyal Rutton hath died. If he doth survive--"

"Har Dyal Rutton shall die within the hour," Salig Singh concluded grimly. "But ... I am troubled.
I cannot but ask myself continually: Were it not wiser to confess failure and abide the outcome?"

"How long wouldst thou abide the outcome, my king, after thou hadst informed the Council of
this deception to which thou hast been too willing and ready a party?... He who misled you
died a dog's death. But thou--art thou in love with death?"

"Unless thy other name be Death, Naraini ..."

