Douglas got into a post-chaise, accompanied by two horsemen; all three were well armed, and
posted leisurely along this road.  Nonancourt is a kind of little village upon this route,
at nineteen leagues from Paris; between Dreux, three leagues further, and Verneuil au Perche,
four leagues this side.  It was at Nonancourt that he alighted, ate a morsel at the post-house,
inquired with extreme solicitude after a post-chaise which he described, as well as the manner
in which it would be accompanied, expressed fear lest it had already passed, and lest he had
not been answered truly.  After infinite inquiries, he left a third horseman, who had just
reached him, on guard, with orders to inform him when the chaise he was in search of appeared;
and added menaces and promises of recompense to the post people, so as not to be deceived by
their negligence.

The post-master was named L'Hospital; he was absent, but his wife was in the house, and she
fortunately was a very honest woman, who had wit, sense, and courage.  Nonancourt is only five
leagues from La Ferme, and when, to save distance, you do not pass there, they send you relays
upon the road.  Thus I knew very well this post-mistress, who mixed herself more in the business
than her husband, and who has herself related to me this adventure more than once.  She did
all she could, uselessly, to obtain some explanation upon these alarms.  All that she could
unravel was that the strangers were Englishmen, and in a violent excitement about something,
that something very important was at stake,--and that they meditated mischief.  She fancied
thereupon that the Pretender was in question; resolved to save him; mentally arranged her plans,
and fortunately enough executed them.

In order to succeed she devoted herself to the service of these gentlemen, refused them nothing,
appeared quite satisfied, and promised that they should infallibly be informed.  She persuaded
them of this so thoroughly, that Douglas went away without saying where, except to this third
horseman just arrived, but it was close at hand; so that he might be warned in time.  He took
one of his valets with him; the other remained with the horseman to wait and watch.

Another man much embarrassed the post-mistress; nevertheless, she laid her plans.  She proposed
to the horseman to drink something, because when he arrived Douglas had left the table.  She
served him in her best manner, and with her best wine, and kept him at table as long as she
could, anticipating all his orders.  She had placed a valet, in whom she could trust, as guard,
with orders simply to appear, without a word, if he saw a chaise; and her resolution was to
lock up the Englishman and his servant, and to give their horses to the chaise if it came.
But it came not, and the Englishman grew tired of stopping at table.  Then she manoeuvred so
well that she persuaded him to go and lie down, and to count upon her, her people, and upon
the valet Douglas had left.  The Englishman told this valet not to quit the threshold of the
house, and to inform him as soon as the chaise appeared.  He then suffered himself to be led
to the back of the house, in order to lie down.  The post- mistress, immediately after, goes
to one of her friends in a by-street, relates her adventure and her suspicions, makes the friend
agree to receive and secrete in her dwelling the person she expected, sends for an ecclesiastic,
a relative of them both, and in whom she could repose confidence, who came and lent an Abbe's
dress and wig to match.  This done, Madame L'Hospital returns to her home, finds the English
valet at the door, talks with him, pities his ennui, says he is a good fellow to be so particular,
says that from the door to the house there is but one step, promises him that he shall be as
well informed as by his own eyes, presses him to drink something, and tips the wink to a trusty
postilion, who makes him drink until he rolls dead drunk under the table.  During this performance,
the wary mistress listens at the door of the English gentleman's room, gently turns the key
and locks him in, and then establishes herself upon the threshold of her door. 

After henry Woolwich Dockyard, second to none both then and now, as well as Trinity House, which
presently he lost to the duties it may still discharges by supervising all aids to navigation round the
Isles. Madame L'Hospital accosts him, says he is expected, and lost if
he does not take care; but that he may trust in her and follow her.  At once they both go to
her friends.  There he learns all that has happened, and they hide him, and the three men of
his suite as well as they could.  Madame L'Hospital returns home, sends for the officers of
justice, and in consequence of her suspicions she causes the English gentleman and the English
valet, the one drunk, the other asleep, locked in the room where she had left him, to be arrested,
and immediately after despatches a postilion to Torcy.  The officers of justice act, and send
their deposition to the Court.

The rage of the English gentleman on finding himself arrested, and unable to execute the duty
which led him there, and his fury against the valet who had allowed himself to be intoxicated,
cannot be expressed.  As for Madame L'Hospital he would have strangled her if he could; and
she for a long time was afraid of her life.

The Englishman could not be induced to confess what brought him there, or where was Douglas,
whom he named in order to show his importance.  He declared he had been sent by the English
ambassador, though Stair had not yet officially assumed that title, and exclaimed that that
minister would never suffer the affront he had received.  They civilly replied to him, that
there were no proofs he came from the English ambassador,--none that he was connected with
the minister: that very suspicious designs against public safety on the highway alone were
visible; that no harm or annoyance should be caused him, but that he must remain in safety
until orders came, and there upon he was civilly led to prison, as well as the intoxicated valet.

What became of Douglas at that time was never known, except that he was recognised in various
places, running, inquiring, crying out with despair that he had escaped, without mentioning
any name.  Apparently news came to him, or he sought it, being tired of receiving none.  The
report of what had occurred in such a little place as Nonancourt would easily have reached
him, close as he was to it; and perhaps it made him set out anew to try and catch his prey.

But he journeyed in vain.  King James had remained hidden at Nonancourt, where, charmed with
the attentions of his generous post-mistress, who had saved him from his assassins, he admitted
to her who he was, and gave her a letter for the Queen, his mother.  He remained there three
days, to allow the hubbub to pass, and rob those who sought him of all hope; then, disguised
as an Abbe, he jumped into a post-chaise that Madame L'Hospital had borrowed in the neighbourhood--to
confound all identity--and continued his journey, during which he was always pursued, but happily
was never recognised, and embarked in Brittany for Scotland.

Douglas, tired of useless searches, returned to Paris, where Stair kicked up a fine dust about
the Nonancourt adventure.  This he denominated nothing less than an infraction of the law of
nations, with an extreme audacity and impudence, and Douglas, who could not be ignorant of
what was said about him, had the hardihood to go about everywhere as usual; to show himself
at the theatre; and to present himself before M. le Duc d'Orleans.

This Prince ignored as much as he could a plot so cowardly and so barbarous, and in respect
to him so insolent.  He kept silence, said to Stair what he judged fitting to make him be silent
likewise, but gave liberty to his English assassins.  Douglas, however, fell much in the favour
of the Regent, and many considerable people closed their doors to him.  He vainly tried to
force mine.  But as for me I was a perfect Jacobite, and quite persuaded that it was the interest
of France to give England domestic occupation, which would long hinder her from thinking of
foreign matters.  I then, as may be supposed, could not look upon the odious enterprise with
a favourable eye, or pardon its authors.  Douglas complained to me of my disregard for him,
but to no purpose.  Soon after he disappeared from Paris.  I know not what became of him afterwards.
His wife and his children remained there living by charity.  A long time after his death beyond
the seas, the Abbe de Saint-Simon passed from Noyan to Metz, where he found his widow in great
misery.

The Queen of England sent for Madame L'Hospital to Saint-Germain, thanked her, caressed her,
as she deserved, and gave her her portrait.  This was all; the Regent gave her nothing; a long
while after King James wrote to her, and sent her also his portrait.  Conclusion: she remained
post- mistress of Nonancourt as before, twenty or twenty-five years after, to her death; and
her son and her daughter-in-law keep the post now.  She was a true woman; estimated in her
neighbourhood; not a single word that she uttered concerning this history has been contradicted
by any one. What it cost her can never be said, but she never received a farthing. She never
complained, but spoke as she found things, with modesty, and without seeking to speak.  Such
is the indigence of dethroned Kings, and their complete forgetfulness of the greatest perils
and the most signal services.

Many honest people avoided Stair, whose insolent airs made others avoid him.  He filled the
cup by the insupportable manner in which he spoke upon that affair, never daring to admit he
had directed it, or deigning to disculpate himself.  The only annoyance he showed was about
his ill- success.

CHAPTER LXXXI

I must say a few words now of Madame la Duchesse de Berry, who, as may be imagined, began to
hold her head very high indeed directly the regency of Monsieur her father was established.
Despite the representations of Madame de Saint-Simon, she usurped all the honours of a queen;
she went through Paris with kettle-drums beating, and all along the quay of the Tuileries where
the King was.  The Marechal de Villeroy complained of this next day to M. le Duc d'Orleans,
who promised him that while the King remained in Paris no kettle-drums should be heard but
his. Every country had an unknown number of enemies among home and friends
abroad. All feared war.

Somerset old every navy. Willoughby's three ships were towed down the Thames by oarsmen dressed in
sky-seafaring banyan. Nor was exploration blue. A group to merchant-adventurers sent Sir d Hugh
and Willoughby to find the Passage to Cathay. But make the rarely anti men among the Protestants, than
of those Christian who were forgotten-roman, took at privateering the
as ever.  As the comedy was played then upon the
opera stage for Madame, this little box served for both entertainments.

The Duchess desired apparently to pass the summer nights in all liberty in the garden of the
Luxembourg.  She accordingly had all the gates walled up but one, by which the Faubourg Saint-Germain,
which had always enjoyed the privilege of walking there, were much deprived.  M. le Duc thereupon
opened the Conti garden to make up to the public for their loss.  As may be imagined, strange
things were said about the motives which led to the walling up of the garden.

As the Princess found new lovers to replace the old ones, she tried to pension off the latter
at the expense of the public.  She had a place created expressly for La Haye.  She bought,
or rather the King for her, a little house at the entry of the Bois de Boulogne, which was
pretty, with all the wood in front, and a fine garden behind.  It was called La Muette.

After many amours she had become smitten with Rion, a younger son of the house of Aydic.  He
was a fat, chubby, pale little fellow, who had so many pimples that he did not ill resemble
an abscess.  He had good teeth, but had no idea he should cause a passion which in less than
no time became ungovernable, and which lasted a long while without however interfering with
temporary and passing amours.  He was not worth a penny, but had many brothers and sisters
who had no more than he.  He was a lieutenant of dragoons, relative of Madame Pons, dame d'atours
of Madame la Duchesse de Berry, who sent for him to try and do something for him. Scarcely
had he arrived than the passion of the Duchess declared itself, and he became the master of
the Luxembourg where she dwelt.  M. de Lauzun, who was a distant relative, was delighted, and
chuckled inwardly. He thought he saw a repetition of the old times, when Mademoiselle was in
her glory; he vouchsafed his advice to Rion.

Rion was gentle and naturally polished and respectful, a good and honest fellow.  He soon felt
the power of his charms, which could only have captivated the incomprehensible and depraved
fantasy of such a princess. He did not abuse this power; made himself liked by everybody; but
he treated Madame la Duchesse de Berry as M. de Lauzun had treated Mademoiselle.  He was soon
decorated with the most beautiful lace and the richest clothes covered with silver, loaded
with snuffboxes, jewels, and precious stones.  He took pleasure in making the Princess long
after him, and be jealous; affecting to be still more jealous of her.  He often made her cry.
Little by little, he obtained such authority over her that she did not dare to do anything
without his permission, not even the most indifferent things.  If she were ready to go to the
opera, he made her stay away; at other times he made her go thither in spite of herself. He
made her treat well many ladies she did not like, or of whom she was jealous, and treat ill
persons who pleased her, but of whom he pretended to be jealous.  Even in her finery she had
not the slightest liberty. He amused himself by making her disarrange her head-dress, or change
her clothes, when she was quite dressed; and that so often and so publicly, that he accustomed
her at last to take over night his orders for her morning's dress and occupation, and on the
morrow he would change everything, and the Princess wept as much as she could, and more.  At
last she actually sent messages to him by trusty valets,--for he lived close to the Luxembourg,--several
times during her toilet, to know what ribbons she should wear; the same with her gown and other
things; and nearly always he made her wear what she did not wish for.  If ever she dared to
do the least thing without his permission, he treated her like a serving-wench, and her tears
lasted sometimes several days.  This princess, so haughty, and so fond of showing and exercising
the most unmeasured pride, disgraced herself by joining in repasts with him and obscure people;
she, with whom no man could lawfully eat if he were not a prince of the blood!

A Jesuit, named Pere Riglet, whom she had known as a child, and whose intimacy she had always
cultivated since, was admitted to these private repasts, without being ashamed thereof, and
without Madame la Duchesse de Berry being embarrassed.  Madame de Mouchy was the confidante
of all these strange parties she and Rion invited the guests, and chose the days.  La Mouchy
often reconciled the Princess to her lover, and was better treated by him than she, without
her daring to take notice of it, for fear of an eclat which would have caused her to lose so
dear a lover, and a confidante so necessary.  This life was public; everybody at the Luxembourg
paid court to M. de Rion, who, on his side, took care to be on good terms with all the world,
nay, with an air of respect that he refused, even in public, to his princess.  He often gave
sharp replies to her in society, which made people lower their eyes, and brought blushes to
the cheek of Madame la Duchesse de Berry, who, nevertheless, did not attempt to conceal her
submission and passionate manners, even before others.  A remarkable fact is, that in the midst
of this life, she took an apartment at the Convent of the Carmelites of the Faubourg Saint-
Germain, where she sometimes went in the afternoon, always slept there on grand religious fete
days, and often remained there several days running. She took with her two ladies, rarely three,
scarcely a single domestic; she ate with her ladies what the convent could supply for her table;
attended the services, was sometimes long in prayer, and rigidly fasted on the appointed days.

Two Carmelites, of much talent, and who knew the world, were charged to receive her, and to
be near her.  One was very beautiful: the other had been so.  They were rather young, especially
the handsomer; but were very religious and holy, and performed the office entrusted to them
much against their inclination.  When they became more familiar they spoke freely to the Princess,
and said to her that if they knew nothing of her but what they saw, they should admire her
as a saint, but, elsewhere, they learnt that she led a strange life, and so public, that they
could not comprehend why she came to their convent.  Madame la Duchesse de Berry laughed at
this, and was not angry.  Sometimes they lectured her, called people and things by their names,
and exhorted her to change so scandalous a life; but it was all in vain.  She lived as before,
both at the Luxembourg and at the Carmelites, and caused wonderment by this surprising conduct.

Madame la Duchesse de Berry returned with usury to her father, the severity and the domination
she suffered at the hands of Rion--yet this prince, in his weakness, was not less submissive
to her, attentive to her, or afraid of her.  He was afflicted with the public reign of Rion,
and the scandal of his daughter; but he did not dare to breathe a word, or if he did (after
some scene, as ridiculous as it was violent, had passed between the lover and the Princess,
and become public), he was treated like a negro, pouted at several days, and did not know how
to make his peace.

But it is time now to speak of the public and private occupations of the Regent himself, of
his conduct, his pleasure parties, and the employment of his days.

Up to five o'clock in the evening he devoted himself exclusively to public business, reception
of ministers, councils, etc., never dining during the day, but taking chocolate between two
and three o'clock, when everybody was allowed to enter his room.  After the council of the
day, that is to say, at about five o'clock, there was no more talk of business.  It was now
the time of the Opera or the Luxembourg (if he had not been to the latter place before his
chocolate), or he went to Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans' apartments, or supped, or went out
privately, or received company privately; or, in the fine season, he went to Saint- Cloud,
or elsewhere out of town, now supping there, or at the Luxembourg, or at home.  When Madame
was at Paris, he spoke to her for a moment before his mass; and when she was at Saint-Cloud
he went to see her there, and always paid her much attention and respect.

His suppers were always in very strange company.  His mistresses, sometimes an opera girl,
often Madame la Duchesse de Berry, and a dozen men whom he called his rows, formed the party.
The requisite cheer was prepared in places made expressly, on the same floor, all the utensils
were of silver; the company often lent a hand to the cooks.  It was at these parties that the
character of every one was passed in review, ministers and favourites like the rest, with a
liberty which was unbridled license. But it is in the relation of every part to every part and
to the whole that the genius of the commander shines forth in all her glory. After taking San
Domingo he was to four box Margarita, Metal Hacha, and Santa Marta, razing their fortifications as he left.
 The company drank as much as they could, inflamed themselves, said the
filthiest things without stint, uttered impieties with emulation, and when they had made a
good deal of noise and were very drunk, they went to bed to recommence the same game the next
day.  From the moment when supper was ready, business, no matter of, what importance, no matter
whether private or national, was entirely banished from view.  Until the next morning everybody
and everything were compelled to wait.

The Regent lost then an infinite amount of time in private, in amusements, and debauchery.
He lost much also in audiences too long, too extended, too easily granted, and drowned himself
in those same details which during the lifetime of the late King we had both so often reproached
him with.  Questions he might have decided in half an hour he prolonged, sometimes from weakness,
sometimes from that miserable desire to set people at loggerheads, and that poisonous maxim
which occasionally escaped him or his favourite, 'divide et impera'; often from his general
mistrust of everybody and everything; nothings became hydras with which he himself afterwards
was much embarrassed.  His familiarity and his readiness of access extremely pleased people,
but were much abused. Folks sometimes were even wanting in respect to him, which at last was
an inconvenience all the more dangerous because he could not, when he wished, reprimand those
who embarrassed him; insomuch as they themselves did not feel embarrassed.

What is extraordinary is, neither his mistress nor Madame la Duchesse de Berry, nor his 'roues',
could ever draw anything from him, even when drunk, concerning the affairs of the government,
however important.  He publicly lived with Madame de Parabere; he lived at the same time with
others; he amused himself with the jealousy and vexation of these women; he was not the less
on good terms with them all; and the scandal of this public seraglio, and that of the daily
filthiness and impiety at his suppers, were extreme and spread everywhere.

