Reconstructing the Church

12mo.

Dr. Harper solves the problems of federated and community churches, industrialism and social
reconstruction, etc., along lines compatible with the teachings and spirit of Jesus.

PETER AINSLIE, D.D. Editor of "The Christian Union Quarterly"

If Not a United Church--What?

The Reinicker Lectures at the Protestant Episcopal Theological Seminary in Virginia. 12mo.

The first of a series of Handbooks presenting the proposals of a United Christendom. Dr. Ainslie
writes vigorously, yet without heat or partisanship, and presents a cogent and lucid plea for
the cause that must be answered.

FRANK L. BROWN Gen'l Sec. World S.S. Assoc. American Section

Plans for Sunday School Evangelism

12mo.

"Here is a record of a successful superintendent's experience, supplemented by unusual opportunities
to observe how other superintendents and pastors won their scholars to Christ. If you buy only
one book this year--let it be this one."--S.S. Times.

HOWARD J. GEE

Methods of Church School Administration

16mo.

A Text Book for Community Training Schools and International and State Schools of Sunday School
Methods. Margaret Slattery says: "Practical and adaptable to schools of various sizes in either
city or country. Will meet a long-felt need. I endorse both plan and purpose heartily."

E.C. KNAPP General Secretary Inland Empire State Sunday School Association

The Sunday School Between Sundays

12mo.

Mr. Knapp offers a large number of ideas and suggestions, all of which are practical and capable
of tangible realization. Pastors, teachers and all other workers among folk will find Mr. Knapp's
book of great interest and special value.

EXPERIENCES OF LIFE

DONALD HANKEY Author of "A Student in Arms"

Letters of Donald Hankey

With Introduction and Notes by Edward Miller, M.A. Illustrated, 8vo.

"As a further revelation of the personality of the man who wrote 'A Student in Arms,' these
personal letters possess an interest difficult to overestimate. They are intimate, human, appealing;
they cover Hankey's college days; the periods spent in foreign travel; the years in Australia,
and the fateful months he spent in France as one of the immortal 'First Hundred Thousand,'
and where he made the supreme sacrifice."--Christian Work.

ARTHUR PORRITT

The Strategy of Life

A Book for Boys and Young Men. Foreword by John Henry Jowett, D.D. 12mo.

"I wish that this little book might be placed in the hands of every boy and young man throughout
the Anglo-Saxon world: Here we have practical guidance in the essential secrets which lie behind
all Social Reconstruction; even the fashioning of character and the nourishing of life."--Rev.
J.H. Jowett.

EDWARD LEIGH PELL Author of "Our Troublesome, Religious, Questions"

Bringing Up John

A Book for Mothers and Other Teachers of Boys and Girls. 12mo.

"It is not only a mother's book, it is a book for fathers, for all teachers of children, and
also for pastors, who will be especially interested in the author's efforts to separate what
Christ actually taught from the ideas which we have inherited from our pagan ancestors, and
who will find in the volume abundant fresh material on the most pressing problem of our times."--S.S.
Times.

A.H. McKINNEY

Guiding Girls to Christian Womanhood

12mo.

In her progress towards maturity a girl requires something richer, something of a more permanent,
fundamental order. How this may be provided is set forth by a writer who knows, not only the
adolescent mind, but the methods best calculated to enrich and develop the nature as life becomes
fraught with increasing responsibilities. The book has an excellent bibliography and list of
activities suitable for growing girls.