Filled with fear, I suddenly turned my back on her and, wringing my hands in despair, hastened
away by the path which had brought me thither. I cared little where I went; I only knew that
I had to tear myself away from perilous temptations. It was a broiling day; the odour of the
woods seemed intoxicating; the mere sight of them was stirring up the instincts of my old savage
life; I had to flee or fall. With an imperious gesture, Edmee ordered me to depart from her
presence. The idea that any danger could possibly threaten her except from myself naturally
did not come into my head or her own. I plunged into the forest. I had not gone more than thirty
paces when I heard the report of a gun from the spot where I had left Edmee. I stopped, petrified
with horror; why, I know not; for in the middle of a battue the report of a gun was by no means
extraordinary; but my soul was so sorrowful that it seemed ready to find fresh woe in everything.
I was about to retrace my steps and rejoin Edmee at the risk of offending her still more when
I thought I heard the moaning of a human being in the direction of Gazeau Tower. I rushed forward,
and then fell upon my knees, as if stunned by emotion. It took me some minutes to recover;
my brain seemed full of doleful sights and sounds; I could no longer distinguish between illusion
and reality; though the sun was shining brightly I began to grope my way among the trees. All
of a sudden I found myself face to face with the abbe; he was anxiously looking for Edmee.
The chevalier had driven to a certain spot to watch the field pass, and not seeing his daughter,
had been filled with apprehension. The abbe had plunged into the forest at once, and, soon
finding the tracks of our horses, had come to see what had happened to us. He had heard the
gun, but had thought nothing of it. Seeing me pale and apparently dazed, with my hair disarranged,
and without either horse or gun (I had let mine fall on the spot where I had half fainted,
and had not thought of picking it up), he was as terrified as myself; nor did he know any more
than I for what reason.

"Edmee!" he said to me, "where is Edmee?"

I made a rambling reply. He was so alarmed at seeing me in such a state that he felt secretly
convinced I had committed some crime, as he subsequently confessed to me.

"Wretched boy!" he said, shaking me vigorously by the arm to bring me to my senses. "Be calm;
collect your thoughts, I implore you! . . ."

I did not understand a word, but I led him towards the fatal spot; and there--a sight never
to be forgotten--Edmee was lying on the ground rigid and bathed in blood. Her mare was quietly
grazing a few yards away. Patience was standing by her side with his arms crossed on his breast,
his face livid, and his heart so full that he was unable to answer a word to the abbe's cries
and sobs. For myself, I could not understand what was taking place. I fancy that my brain,
already bewildered by my previous emotions, must have been completely paralyzed. I sat down
on the ground by Edmee's side. She had been shot in the breast in two places. I gazed on her
lifeless eyes in a state of absolute stupor.

"Take away that creature," said Patience to the abbe, casting a look of contempt on me. "His
perverse nature is what it always was."

"Edmee, Edmee!" cried the abbe, throwing himself upon the grass and endeavouring to stanch
the blood with his handkerchief.

"Dead, dead!" said Patience. "And there is the murderer! She said so as she gave up her pure
soul to God; and Patience will avenge her! It is very hard; but it must be so! It is God's
will, since I alone was here to learn the truth."

"Horrible, horrible!" exclaimed the abbe.

I heard the sound of this last word, and with a smile I repeated it like an echo.

Some huntsmen now appeared. Edmee was carried away. I believe that I caught sight of her father
walking without help. However, I should not dare to affirm that this was not a mere extravagant
vision (for I had no definite consciousness of anything, and these awful moments have left
in my mind nothing but vague memories, as of a dream), had I not been assured that the chevalier
got out of the carriage without any help, walked about, and acted with as much presence of
mind as a young man. On the following day he fell into a state of absolute dotage and insensibility,
and never rose from his arm-chair again.

But what happened to myself? I do not know. When I recovered my reason, I found that I was
in another part of the forest near a little waterfall, to the murmur of which I was listening
mechanically with a sort of vague delight. Blaireau was asleep at my feet, while his master,
leaning against a tree, was watching me attentively. The setting sun was sending shafts of
ruddy gold between the slender stems of the young ash-trees; the wild flowers seemed to be
smiling at me; and birds were warbling sweet melodies. It was one of the most beautiful days
of the year.

"What a gorgeous evening!" I said to Marcasse. "This spot is as beautiful as an American forest.
Well, old friend, what are you doing there? You ought to have awakened me sooner. I have had
such hideous dreams."

Marcasse came and knelt down beside me; two streams of tears were running down his withered,
sallow cheeks. On his face, usually so impassive, there was an ineffable expression of pity
and sorrow and affection.

"Poor master!" he said, "delirium, head bad, that's all. Great misfortune! But fidelity not
changed. Always with you; if need be, ready to die with you."

His tears and words filled me with sadness; but this was owing to an instinctive sympathy enhanced
by the weak state of my nerves, for I did not remember a thing. I threw myself into his arms
and wept like himself; he pressed me to his bosom, as a father might his son. I was fully conscious
that some frightful misfortune had overtaken me, but I was afraid to learn what it was, and
nothing in the world would have induced me to ask him.

He took me by the arm and led me through the forest. I let myself be taken like a child. Then
a fresh sense of weariness came over me, and he was obliged to let me sit down again for half
an hour. At last he lifted me up and succeeded in leading me to Roche-Mauprat, where we arrived
very late. I do not know what happened to me during the night. Marcasse told me subsequently
that I had been very delirious. He took upon himself to send to the nearest village for a barber,
who bled me early in the morning, and a few minutes later I recovered my reason.

But what a frightful service they seemed to have done me. Dead! Dead! Dead! This was the only
word I could utter. I did nothing but groan and toss about on my bed. I wanted to get up and
run to Sainte-Severe. My poor sergeant would throw himself at my feet, or plant himself in
front of the door to prevent me. To keep me back, he would tell me various things which I did
not in the least understand. However, his manifest solicitude for me and my own feeling of
exhaustion made me yield, though I could not explain his conduct. In one of these struggles
my vein opened again, and I returned to bed before Marcasse noticed it. Gradually I sank into
a deep swoon, and I was almost dead when, seeing my blue lips and purple cheeks, he took it
into his head to lift up the bed-clothes, and found me lying in a pool of blood.

However, this was the most fortunate thing that could have happened to me. For several days
I remained in a state of prostration in which there was but little difference between my waking
and sleeping hours. Thanks to this, I understood nothing, and therefore did not suffer.

One morning, having managed to make me take a little nourishment, and noticing that with my
strength my melancholy and anxiety were returning, Marcasse announced, with a simple, genuine
delight, that Edmee was not dead, and that they did not despair of saving her. These words
fell upon me like a thunderbolt; for I was still under the impression that this frightful adventure
was a delusion of my delirium. I began to shout and to brandish my arms in a terrible manner.
Marcasse fell on his knees by my bed and implored me to be calm, and a score of times he repeated
the following words, which to me were like the meaningless words one hears in dreams:

"You did not do it on purpose; I know well enough. No, you did not do it on purpose. It was
an accident; a gun going off in your hand by chance."

"Come, now, what do you mean?" I exclaimed impatiently. "What gun? What accident? What have
I to do with it?"

"Don't you know, then, sir, how she was hit?"

I passed my hands over my brow as if to bring back to my mind the energy of life, and as I
had no clear recollection of the mysterious event which had unhinged it, I thought that I was
mad, and remained silent and dismayed, fearful lest any word should escape to betray the loss
of my faculties.

At last, little by little, I collected my thoughts. I asked for some wine, as I felt weak;
and no sooner had I drunk a few drops than all the scenes of the fatal day unrolled themselves
before me as if by magic. I even remembered the words that I had heard Patience utter immediately
after the event. It was as if they had been graven in that part of the memory which preserves
the sound of words, even when the other part which treasures up their sense is asleep. For
one more moment I was uncertain; I wondered if my gun could have gone off in my hands just
as I was leaving Edmee. I distinctly remembered firing it at a pewit an hour before, for Edmee
had wanted to examine the bird's plumage. Further, when I heard the shot which had hit her,
my gun was in my hands, and I had not thrown it down until a few seconds later, so it could
not have been this weapon which had gone off on falling. Besides, even granting a fatality
which was incredible, I was much too far from Edmee at that moment to have shot her. Finally,
I had not a single bullet on me throughout the day; and it was impossible for my gun to have
been loaded, unknown to myself, since I had not unslung it after killing the pewit.

Quite convinced, therefore, that I was not the cause of the hideous accident, it remained to
me to find an explanation of this crushing catastrophe. To me it was perfectly simple; some
booby with a gun, I thought, must have caught sight of Edmee's horse through the branches and
mistaken it for a wild beast; and I did not dream of accusing any one of a deliberate attempt
at murder. I discovered, however, that I was accused myself. I drew the truth from Marcasse.
He informed me that the chevalier and all the people who took part in the hunt had attributed
the misfortune to a pure accident, their opinion being that, to my great sorrow, my gun had
gone off when my horse threw me, for it was believed that I had been thrown. This was practically
the view they all took. In the few words that Edmee had been able to utter she seemed to confirm
the supposition. Only one person accused me, and that was Patience; but he had accused me before
none but his two friends, Marcasse and the Abbe Aubert, and then only after pledging them to
secrecy.

"There is no need," added Marcasse, "for me to tell you that the abbe maintains an absolute
silence, and refuses to believe that you are guilty. As for myself, I swear to you that I shall
never--"

"Stop! stop!" I said. "Do not tell me even that; it would imply that some one in the world
might actually believe it. But Edmee said something extraordinary to Patience just as she was
dying; for she is dead; it is useless for you to try to deceive me. She is dead, and I shall
never see her again."

"She is not dead!" cried Marcasse.

And his solemn oaths convinced me, for I knew that he would have tried in vain to lie; his
simple soul would have risen in revolt against his charitable intentions. As for Edmee's words,
he frankly refused to repeat them; from which I gathered that their testimony seemed overwhelming.
Thereupon I dragged myself out of bed, and stubbornly resisted all Marcasse's efforts to keep
me back; I had the farmer's horse saddled and started off at a gallop. I staggered into the
drawing-room without meeting any one except Saint-Jean, who uttered a cry of terror on seeing
me, and rushed off without answering my questions.

The drawing-room was empty. Edmee's embroidery frame, buried under the green cloth, which her
hand, perchance, would never lift again, seemed to me like a bier under its pall. My uncle's
big arm-chair was no longer in the chimney-corner. My portrait, which I had had painted in
Philadelphia and had sent over during the American war, had been taken down from the wall.
These were signs of death and malediction.

I left this room with all haste and went upstairs with the courage of innocence, but with despair
in my soul. I waled straight to Edmee's room, knocked, and entered at once. Mademoiselle Leblanc
was coming towards the door; she gave a loud scream and ran away, hiding her face in her hands
as if she had seen a wild beast. Who, then, could have been spreading hideous reports about
me? Had the abbe been disloyal enough to do so? I learnt later that Edmee, though generous
and unshaken in her lucid moments, had openly accused me in her delirium.

I approached her bed and, half delirious myself, forgetting that my sudden appearance might
be a deathblow to her, I pulled the curtains aside with an eager hand and gazed on her. Never
have I seen more marvellous beauty. Her big dark eyes had grown half as large again; they were
shining with an extraordinary brilliancy, though without any expression, like diamonds. Her
drawn, colourless cheeks, and her lips, as white as her cheeks, gave her the appearance of
a beautiful marble head. She looked at me fixedly, with as little emotion as if she had been
looking at a picture or a piece of furniture; then, turning her face slightly towards the wall,
she said, with a mysterious smile:

"This is the flower they call Edmea sylvestris."

I fell upon my knees; I took her hand; I covered it with kisses; I broke into sobs. But she
gave no heed; her hand remained in mine icy and still, like a piece of alabaster.

XXIII

The abbe came in and greeted me in a cold and sombre manner. Then he made a sign to me, and
drawing me away from the bed, said:

"You must be mad! Return at once; and if you are wise, you will remain away. It is the only
thing left for you to do."

"And since when," I cried, flying into a passion, "have you had the right to drive me out of
the bosom of my family?"

"Alas! you have no longer a family," he answered, with an accent of sorrow that somewhat disarmed
me. "What were once father and daughter are now naught but two phantoms, whose souls are already
dead and whose bodies soon will be. Show some respect for the last days of those who loved you."

"And how can I show my respect and grief by quitting them?" I replied, quite crushed.

"On this point," said the abbe, "I neither wish nor ought to say anything; for you know that
your presence here is an act of rashness and a profanation. Go away. When they are no more
(and the day cannot be far distant), if you have any claims to this house, you may return,
and you will certainly not find me here to contest them or affirm them. Meanwhile, as I have
no knowledge of these claims, I believe I may take upon myself to see that some respect is
paid to the last hours of these two holy people."

"Wretched man!" I said, "I do not know what prevents me from tearing you to pieces! What abominable
impulse urges you to be everlastingly turning the dagger in my breast? Are you afraid that
I may survive this blow? Cannot you see that three coffins will be taken out together from
this house? do you imagine that I have come here for aught but a farewell look and a farewell
blessing?"

"You might say a farewell pardon," replied the abbe, in a bitter tone, and with a gesture of
merciless condemnation.

"What I say is that you are mad!" I cried, "and that if you were not a priest, this hand of
mine should crush the life out of you for daring to speak to me in this way."

"I have but little fear of you, sir," he rejoined. "To take my life would be doing me a great
service; but I am sorry that your threats and anger should lend weight to the charges under
which you lie. If I saw that you were moved to penitence, I would weep with you; but your assurance
fills me with loathing. Hitherto, I had seen in you nothing worse than a raging lunatic; to-day
I seem to see a scoundrel. Begone, sir!"

I fell into an arm-chair, choking with rage and anguish. For a moment I hoped that I was about
to die. Edmee was dying by my side, and before me was a judge so firmly convinced of my guilt
that his usual gentle, timid nature had become harsh and pitiless. The imminent loss of her
I loved was hurrying me into a longing for death. Yet the horrible charge hanging over me began
to rouse my energies. I did not believe that such an accusation could stand for a single instant
against the voice of truth. I imagined that one word from me, one look, would be sufficient
to make it fall to the ground; but I felt so dazed, so deeply wounded, that this means of defence
was denied me. The more grievously the disgrace of such a suspicion weighed upon my mind, the
more clearly I realized that it is almost impossible for a man to defend himself successfully
when his only weapon is the pride of slandered innocence.

I sat there overwhelmed, unable to utter a word. It seemed as if a dome of lead were weighing
on my skull. Suddenly the door opened and Mademoiselle Leblanc approached me stiffly; in a
tone full of hatred she informed me that some one outside wished to speak to me. I went out
mechanically, and found Patience waiting with his arms folded, in his most dignified attitude,
and with an expression on his face which would have compelled both respect and fear if I had
been guilty.

"Monsieur de Mauprat," he said, "I must request you to grant me a private interview. Will you
kindly follow me to my cottage?"

"Yes, I will," I replied. "I am ready to endure any humiliation, if only I can learn what is
wanted of me and why you are all pleased to insult the most unfortunate of men. Lead the way,
Patience, and go quickly; I am eager to return here."

Patience walked in front of me with an impassive air. When we arrived at his little dwelling,
we found my poor sergeant, who had just arrived likewise. Not finding any horse on which he
could follow me, and not wishing to quit me, he had come on foot, and so quickly that he was
bathed in perspiration. Nevertheless, the moment he saw us he sprang up full of life from the
bench on which he had thrown himself under the bower of vine-branches, and came to meet us.

"Patience!" he cried, in a dramatic style which would have made me smile had it been possible
for me to display a glimmer of mirth at such a moment. "Old fool! . . . Slanderer at your age?
. . . Fie, sir! . . . Ruined by good fortune . . . you are . . . yes."

Patience, impassive as ever, shrugged his shoulders and said to his friend:

"Marcasse, you do not know what you are saying. Go and rest awhile at the bottom of the orchard.
This matter does not concern you. I want to speak to your master alone. I wish you to go,"
he added, taking him by the arm; and there was a touch of authority in his manner to which
the sergeant, in spite of his ticklish prided, yielded from instinct and habit.

As soon as we were alone Patience proceeded to the point; he began by a series of questions
to which I resolved to submit, so that I might the more quickly obtain some light on the state
of affairs around me.

"Will you kindly inform me, monsieur," he said, "what you purpose doing now?"

"I purpose remaining with my family," I answered, "as long as I have a family; and when this
family is no more, what I shall do concerns no one."

"But, sir," replied Patience, "if you were told that you could not remain under the same roof
with them without causing the death of one or the other, would you persist in staying?"

"If I were convinced that this was so," I rejoined, "I would not appear in their presence.
I would remain at their door and await the last day of their life, or the first day of their
renewed health, and again implore a love I have not yet ceased to deserve."

"Ah, we have come to this!" said Patience, with a smile of contempt. "I should not have believed
it. However, I am very glad; it makes matters clearer."

"What do you mean?" I cried. "Speak, you wretch! Explain yourself!"

"You are the only wretch here," he answered coldly, at the same time sitting down on the one
stool in the cottage, while I remained standing before him.

I wanted to draw an explanation from him, at all costs. I restrained my feelings; I even humbled
myself so far as to say that I should be ready to accept advice, if he would consent to tell
me the words that Edmee had uttered immediately after the event, and those which she had repeated
in her hours of delirium.

"That I will not," replied Patience sternly; "you are not worthy to hear any words from that
mouth, and I shall certainly never repeat them to you. Why do you want to know them? Do you
hope to hide anything from men hereafter? God saw you; for Him there are no secrets. Leave
this place; stay at Roche-Mauprat; keep quiet there; and when your uncle is dead and your affairs
are settled, leave this part of the country. If you take my advice, you will leave it this
very day. I do not want to put the law on your track, unless your actions force me. But others
besides myself, if they are not certain of the truth, have at least a suspicion of it. Before
two days have passed a chance word said in public, the indiscretion of some servant, may awaken
the attention of justice, and from that point to the scaffold, when a man is guilty, is but
a single step. I used not to hate you; I even had a liking for you; take this advice, then,
which you say you are ready to follow. Go away at once, or remain in hiding and ready for flight.
I do not desire your ruin; Edmee would not desire it either--so--do you understand?"

"You must be insane to think that I could listen to such advice. I, hide myself! or flee like
a murderer! You can't dream of that! Come on! come on! I defy the whole of you! I know not
what fury and hatred are fretting you and uniting you all against me; I know not why you want
to keep me from seeing my uncle and cousin; but I despise your follies. My place is here; I
shall not quit it except by order of my cousin or uncle; and this order, too, I must take from
their own lips; I cannot allow sentence to be brought me by any outsider. So, thanks for your
wisdom, Monsieur Patience; in this case my own will suffice. I am your humble servant, sir."

I was preparing to leave the cottage when he rushed in front of me, and for a moment I saw
that he was ready to use force to detain me. In spite of his advanced age, in spite of my height
and strength, he might still have been a match, perhaps more than a match, for me in a struggle
of this kind. Short, bent, broad-shouldered, he was a Hercules.

He stopped, however, just as he was about to lay hands on me, and, seized with one of those
fits of deep tenderness to which he was subject in his moments of greatest passion, he gazed
at me with eyes of pity, and said, in a gentle tone:

"My poor boy! you whom I loved as a son (for I looked upon you as Edmee's brother), do not
hasten to your ruin. I beseech you in the name of her whom you have murdered, and whom you
still love--I can see it--but whom you may never behold again. Believe me, but yesterday your
family was a proud vessel, whose helm was in your hands; to-day it is a drifting wreck, without
either sail or pilot--left to be handled by cabinboys, as friend Marcasse says. Well, my poor
mariner, do not persist in drowning yourself; I am throwing you a rope; take it--a day more,
and it may be too late. Remember that if the law gets hold of you, the man who is trying to
save you to-day, to-morrow will be obliged to appear against you and condemn you. Do not compel
me to do a thing the very thought of which brings tears to my eyes. Bernard, you have been
loved, my lad; even to-day you may live on the past."

I burst into tears, and the sergeant, who returned at this moment, began to weep also; he implored
me to go back to Roche-Mauprat; but I soon recovered and, thrusting them both away, said:

"I know that both of you are excellent men, and both most generous; you must have some love
for me too, since, though you believe me blackened with a hideous crime, you can still think
of saving my life. But have no fears on my account, good friends; I am innocent of this crime,
and my one wish is that the matter may be fully investigated, so that I may be acquitted--yes,
this is inevitable, I owe it to my family to live until my honour has been freed from stain.
Then, if I am condemned to see my cousin die, as I have no one in the world to love but her,
I will blow my brains out. Why, then, should I be downcast? I set little store by my life.
May God make the last hours of her whom I shall certainly not survive painless and peaceful--that
is all I ask of Him."

Patience shook his head with a gloomy, dissatisfied expression. He was so convinced of my crime
that all my denials only served to alienate his pity. Marcasse still loved me, though he thought
I was guilty. I had no one in the world to answer for my innocence, except myself.

"If you persist on returning to the chateau," exclaimed Patience, "you must swear before you
leave that you will not enter your cousin's room, or your uncle's, without the abbe's permission."

"What I swear is that I am innocent," I replied, "and that I will allow no man to saddle me
with a crime. Back, both of you! Let me pass! Patience, if you consider it your duty to denounce
me, go and do so. All that I ask is that I may not be condemned without a hearing; I prefer
the bar of justice to that of mere opinion."

I rushed out of the cottage and returned to the chateau. However, not wishing to make a scandal
before the servants, and knowing quite well that they could not hide Edmee's real condition
from me, I went and shut myself up in the room I usually occupied.

But in the evening, just as I was leaving it to get news of the two patients, Mademoiselle
Leblanc again told me that some one wished to speak with me outside. I noticed that her face
betrayed a sense of joy as well as fear. I concluded that they had come to arrest me, and I
suspected (rightly, as it transpired) that Mademoiselle Leblanc had denounced me. I went to
the window, and saw some of the mounted police in the courtyard.

"Good," I said; "let my destiny take its course."

But, before quitting, perhaps forever, this house in which I was leaving my soul, I wished
to see Edmee again for the last time. I walked straight to her room. Mademoiselle Leblanc tried
to throw herself in front of the door; I pushed her aside so roughly that she fell, and, I
believe, hurt herself slightly. She immediately filled the house with her cries; and later,
in the trial, made a great pother about what she was pleased to call an attempt to murder her.
I at once entered Edmee's room; there I found the abbe and the doctor. I listened in silence
to what the latter was saying. I learnt that the wounds in themselves were not mortal, that
they would not even be very serious, had not a violent disturbance in the brain complicated
the evil and made him fear tetanus. This frightful word fell upon me like a death sentence.
In America I had seen many men die of this terrible malady, the result of wounds received in
the war. I approached the bed. The abbe was so alarmed that he did not think of preventing
me. I took Edmee's hand, cold and lifeless, as ever. I kissed it a last time, and, without
saying a single word to the others, went and gave myself up to the police.

XXIV

I was immediately thrown into prison at La Chatre. The public prosecutor for the district of
Issoudun took in hand this case of the attempted murder of Mademoiselle de Mauprat, and obtained
permission to have a monitory published on the morrow. He went to the village of Sainte-Severe,
and then to the farms in the neighbourhood of the Curat woods, where the event had happened,
and took the depositions of more than thirty witnesses. Then, eight days after I had been arrested,
the writ of arrest was issued. If my mind had been less distracted, or if some one had interested
himself in me, this breach of the law and many others that occurred during the trial might
have been adduced as powerful arguments in my favour. They would at least have shown that the
proceedings were inspired by some secret hatred. In the whole course of the affair an invisible
hand directed everything with pitiless haste and severity.

The first examination had produced but a single indictment against me; this came from Mademoiselle
Leblanc. The men who had taken part in the hunt declared that they knew nothing, and had no
reason to regard the occurrence as a deliberate attempt at murder. Mademoiselle Leblanc, however,
who had an old grudge against me for certain jokes I had ventured to make at her expense, and
who, moreover, had been suborned, as I learned afterward, declared that Edmee, on recovering
from her first swoon, at a time when she was quite calm and in full possession of her reason,
had confided to her, under a pledge of secrecy, that she had been insulted, threatened, dragged
from her horse, and finally shot by me. This wicked old maid, putting together the various
revelations that Edmee had made in her delirium, had, cleverly enough, composed a connected
narrative, and added to it all the embellishments that hatred could suggest. Distorting the
incoherent words and vague impressions of her mistress, she declared upon oath that Edmee had
seen me point the barrel of my carbine at her, with the words, "As I swore, you shall die by
my hand."

Saint-Jean, who was examined the same day, declared that he knew nothing beyond what Mademoiselle
Leblanc had told him that evening, and his deposition was very similar to hers. He was honest
enough, but dull and narrow-minded. From love of exactness, he omitted no trifling detail which
might be interpreted against me. He asserted that I had always been subject to pains in the
head, during which I lost my senses; that several times previously, when my nerves were disordered,
I had spoken of blood and murder to some individual whom I always fancied I could see; and,
finally, that my temper was so violent that I was "capable of throwing the first thing that
came to hand at any one's head, though as a fact I had never, to his knowledge, committed any
excess of this kind." Such are the depositions that frequently decide life and death in criminal
cases.

Patience could not be found on the day of this inquiry. The abbe declared that his ideas on
the occurrence were so vague that he would undergo all the penalties inflicted on recalcitrant
witnesses rather than express his opinion before fuller investigations had been made. He requested
the public prosecutor to give him time, promising on his honour that he would not resist the
demands of justice, and representing that at the end of a few days, by inquiring into certain
things, he would probably arrive at a conviction of some sort; in this event he undertook to
speak plainly, either for or against me. This delay was granted.

Marcasse simply said that if I had inflicted the wounds on Mademoiselle de Mauprat, about which
he was beginning to feel very doubtful, I had at least inflicted them unintentionally; on this
he was prepared to stake his honour and his life.

Such was the result of the first inquiry. It was resumed at various times during the following
days, and several false witnesses swore that they had seen me shoot Mademoiselle de Mauprat,
after vainly endeavouring to make her yield to my wishes.

One of the most baneful instruments of ancient criminal procedure was what was known as the
monitory; this was a notice from the pulpit, given out by the bishop and repeated by all vicars
to their parishioners, ordering them to make inquiries about the crime in question, and to
reveal all the facts which might come to their knowledge. This was merely a modified form of
the inquisitorial principle which reigned more openly in other countries. In the majority of
cases, the monitory, which had, as a fact, been instituted in order to encourage informers
in the name of religion, was a marvel of ridiculous atrocity; it frequently set forth the crime
and all the imaginary circumstances the plaintiffs were eager to prove; it was, in short, the
publication of a ready-made case, which gave the first knave that came a chance of earning
some money by making a lying deposition in favour of the highest bidder. The inevitable effect
of the monitory, when it was drawn up with a bias, was to arouse public hatred against the
accused. The devout especially, receiving their opinions ready-made from the clergy, pursued
the victim without mercy. This is what happened in my own case; but here the clergy of the
province were playing a further secret part which almost decided my fate.

The case was taken to the assizes at the court of Bourges, and proceedings began in a very
few days.

You can imagine the gloomy despair with which I was filled. Edmee's condition was growing more
and more serious; her mind was completely unhinged. I felt no anxiety as to the result of the
trial; I never imagined it was possible to convict me of a crime I had not committed; but what
were honour and life to me, if Edmee were never to regain the power of recognising my innocence?
I looked upon her as already dead, and as having cursed me dying! So I was inflexibly resolved
to kill myself immediately after receiving my sentence, whatever it might be. Until then I
felt that it was my duty to live, and to do what might be necessary for the triumph of truth;
but I was plunged in such a state of stupor that I did not even think of ascertaining what
was to be done. Had it not been for the cleverness and zeal of my counsel, and the sublime
devotion of Marcasse, my listlessness would have left me to the most terrible fate.

Marcasse spent all his time in expeditions on my behalf. In the evening he would come and throw
himself on a bundle of straw at the foot of my trunkle bed, and, after giving me news of Edmee
and the chevalier, whom he went to see every day, he would tell me the results of his proceedings.
I used to grasp his hand affectionately; but I was generally so absorbed by the news he had
just given me of Edmee, that I never heard anything further.

This prison of La Chatre had formerly been the stronghold of the Elevains of Lombaud, the seigneurs
of the province. Nothing was left of it but a formidable square tower at the top of a ravine
where the Indre forms a narrow, winding valley, rich with the most beautiful vegetation. The
weather was magnificent. My room, situated at the top of the tower, received the rays of the
rising sun, which cast the long, thin shadows of a triple row of poplars as far as the eye
could see. Never did landscape more smiling, fresh, and pastoral offer itself to the eyes of
a prisoner. But how could I find pleasure in it? Words of death and contumely came to me in
every breeze that blew through the wall-flowers growing in the crannies. Every rustic sound,
every tune on the pipe that rose to my room, seemed to contain an insult or to proclaim profound
contempt for my sorrow. There was nothing, even to the bleating of the flocks, which did not
appear to me an expression of neglect or indifference.

For some time Marcasse had had one fixed idea, namely, that Edmee had been shot by John Mauprat.
It was possible; but as there was no evidence to support the conjecture, I at once ordered
him not to make known his suspicions. It was not for me to clear myself at the expense of others.
Although John Mauprat was capable of anything, it was possible that he had never thought of
committing this crime; and as I had not heard him spoken of for more than six weeks, it seemed
to me that it would have been cowardly to accuse him. I clung to the belief that one of the
men in the battue had fired at Edmee by mistake, and that a feeling of fear and shame prevented
him from confessing his misadventure. Marcasse had the courage to go and see all those who
had taken part in the hunt, and, with such eloquence as Heaven had granted him, implored them
not to fear the penalty for unintentional murder, and not to allow an innocent man to be accused
in their stead. All these efforts were fruitless; from none of the huntsmen did my poor friend
obtain a reply which left him any nearer a solution of the mystery that surrounded us.

On being transferred to Bourges, I was thrown into the castle which had belonged to the old
dukes of Berry; this was henceforth to be my prison. It was a great grief to me to be separated
from my faithful sergeant. He would have been allowed to follow me, but he had a presentiment
that he would soon be arrested at the suggestion of my enemies (for he persisted in believing
that I was the victim of a plot), and thus be unable to serve me any more. He wished, therefore,
to lose no time, and to continue his investigations as long as they "should not have seized
his person."

