MARY AT THE FARM AND BOOK OF RECIPES COMPILED DURING HER VISIT AMONG THE "PENNSYLVANIA GERMANS"

by

EDITH M. THOMAS

With Illustrations

1915

      We love our Pennsylvania, grand old Keystone State;
    Land of far famed rivers, and rock-ribbed mountains great.
      With her wealth of "Dusky Diamonds" and historic valleys fair,
    Proud to claim her as our birthplace; land of varied treasures rare.

PREFACE

The incidents narrated in this book are based on fact, and, while not absolutely true in every
particular, the characters are all drawn from real life. The photographs are true likenesses
of the people they are supposed to represent, and while in some instances the correct names
are not given (for reasons which the reader will readily understand), the various scenes, relics,
etc., are true historically and geographically. The places described can be easily recognized
by any one who has ever visited the section of Pennsylvania in which the plot (if it can really
be called a plot) of the story is laid. Many of the recipes given Mary by Pennsylvania German
housewives, noted for the excellence of their cooking, have never appeared in print.

THE AUTHOR.

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED TO MY FRIENDS WITH GRATITUDE FOR THEIR MANY HELPFUL KINDNESSES.

"HE WHO HAS A THOUSAND FRIENDS, HAS NEVER A ONE TO SPARE."

THE HOUSEKEEPER'S SYMPHONY

    "To do the best that I can, from morn till night.
      And pray for added strength with coming light;
    To make the family income reach alway,
      With some left over for a rainy day;
    To do distasteful things with happy face,
      To try and keep the odds and ends in place.
    To smile instead of frown at Fate,
      Which placed me in a family always late
    For meals; to do the sewing, mending and
      The thousand small things always near at hand,
    And do them always with a cheerful heart,
    Because in life they seem to be my part;
    To know the place of everything and keep
      It there, to think, to plan, to cook, to sweep,
    To brew, to bake, to answer questions,
      To be the mainspring of the family clock.
    (Or that effect) and see that no tick, tock
      Is out of time or tune, or soon or late,
    This is the only symphony which I
      Can ever hope to operate."

MARION WILEY.

CONTENTS

     I Mary's Letter Received at Clear Spring Farm

    II Mary's Arrival at the Farm

   III Schuggenhaus Township

    IV John Landis

     V The Old Farm-House and Garden

    VI Mary Confides in "Aunt Sarah" and Gives Her Views on Suffrage
       for Women

   VII Professor Schmidt

  VIII Uses of An Old-Fashioned Wardrobe

    IX Poetry and Pie

     X Sibylla Linsabigler

    XI New Colonial Rag Rugs

   XII Mary Imitates Navajo Blankets

  XIII "The Girls' Camp Fire" Organized by Mary

   XIV Mary Makes "Violet and Rose Leaf" Beads

    XV Mary and Elizabeth Visit Sadie Singmaster

   XVI The Old Parlor Made Beautiful (Modernized)

  XVII An Old Song Evening

 XVIII A Visit to the "Pennsylvania Palisades"

   XIX Mary Is Taught to Make Pastry, Patties and Rosenkuchcen

    XX Old Potteries and Decorated Dishes

   XXI The Value of Wholesome, Nutritious Food

  XXII A Variety of Cakes Evolved From One Recipe

 XXIII The Old "Taufschien"

  XXIV The Old Store on the Ridge Road

   XXV An Elbadritchel Hunt

  XXVI The Old Shanghai Rooster

 XXVII A "Potato Pretzel"

XXVIII Faithful Service

  XXIX Mary, Ralph, Jake and Sibylla Visit the Allentown Fair

   XXX Fritz Schmidt Explores Durham Cave

  XXXI Mary's Marriage

ILLUSTRATIONS

  Mary
  Aunt Sarah
  The Old Spring House
  The Old Mill Wheel
  The Old Mill
  Old Corn Crib
  The New Red Barn
  The Old Farm-House
  Ralph Jackson
  Rocky Valley
  Professor Schmidt
  Frau Schmidt
  Old Time Patch-Work Quilts
  Old Time Patch-Work
  Home-Made Rag Carpet
  A Hit-and-Miss Rug
  A Brown and Tan Rug
  A Circular Rug
  Imitation of Navajo Blankets
  Rug With Design
  Rug With Swastika in Centre
  Home Manufactured Silk Prayer Rug
  Elizabeth Schmidt--"Laughing Water"
  Articles in the Old Parlor Before It Was Modernized
  Other Articles in the Old Parlor Before It Was Modernized
  Palisades, or Narrows of Nockamixon
  The Canal at the Narrows
  The Narrows, or Pennsylvania Palisades
  Top Rock
  Ringing Rocks of Bucks County, Pennsylvania
  High Falls
  Big Rock at Rocky Dale
  The Old Towpath at the Narrows
  Old Earthenware Dish
  Igraffito Plate
  Old Plates Fund in Aunt Sarah's Corner Cupboard
  Old Style Lamps
  Old Taufschien
  The Old Store on Ridge Road
  Catching Elbadritchels
  Old Egg Basket at the Farm
  A Potato Pretzel
  Loaf of Rye Bread
  A "Brod Corvel," or Bread Basket
  Church Which Sheltered Liberty Bell in 1777-78
  Liberty Bell Tablet
  Durham Cave
  The Woodland Stream
  Polly Schmidt
  An Old-Fashioned Bucks County Bake-Oven

CHAPTER I.

MARY'S LETTERS RECEIVED AT CLEAR SPRING FARM.

One morning in early spring, John Landis, a Pennsylvania German farmer living in Schuggenhaus
Township, Bucks County, on opening his mail box, fastened to a tree at the crossroads (for
the convenience of rural mail carriers) found one letter for his wife Sarah, the envelope addressed
in the well-known handwriting of her favorite niece, Mary Midleton, of Philadelphia.

A letter being quite an event at "Clear Spring" farm, he hastened with it to the house, finding
"Aunt Sarah," as she was called by every one (Great Aunt to Mary), in the cheery farm house
kitchen busily engaged kneading sponge for a loaf of rye bread, which she carefully deposited
on a well-floured linen cloth, in a large bowl for the final raising.

Carefully adjusting her glasses more securely over the bridge of her nose, she turned at the
sound of her husband's footsteps. Seeing the letter in his hand she inquired: "What news, John?"
Quickly opening the letter handed her, she, after a hasty perusal, gave one of the whimsical
smiles peculiar to her and remarked decisively, with a characteristic nod of her head: "John,
Mary Midleton intends to marry, else why, pray tell me, would she write of giving up teaching
her kindergarten class in the city, to spend the summer with us on the farm learning, she writes,
to keep house, cook, economize and to learn how to get the most joy and profit from life?"

"Well, well! Mary is a dear girl, why should she not think of marrying?" replied her husband;
"she is nineteen. Quite time, I think, she should learn housekeeping--something every young
girl should know. We should hear of fewer divorces and a less number of failures of men in
business, had their wives been trained before marriage to be good, thrifty, economical housekeepers
and, still more important, good homemakers. To be a helpmate in every sense of the word is
every woman's duty, I think, when her husband works early and late to procure the means to
provide for her comforts and luxuries and a competency for old age. Write Mary to come at once,
and under your teaching she may, in time, become as capable a housekeeper and as good a cook
as her Aunt Sarah; and, to my way of thinking, there is none better, my dear."

Praise from her usually reticent husband never failed to deepen the tint of pink on Aunt Sarah's
still smooth, unwrinkled, youthful looking face, made more charming by being framed in waves
of silvery gray hair, on which the "Hand of Time," in passing, had sprinkled some of the dust
from the road of life.

