Rag weaving is not necessarily confined to rugs, for very beautiful portieres and table and
lounge covers may be woven from carefully chosen and prepared rags. The process is practically
the same, the difference being like that between coarse and fine needlework, where finer material
and closer and more painstaking handiwork is bestowed. The result is like a homespun cloth.
Both warp and woof must be finer than in ordinary carpet weaving. Instead of coarse cotton
yarn, warp must be fine "mercerized" cotton, or of linen or silk thread, and the warp threads
are set much closer in the loom. In place of ten or twelve threads to the inch, there should
be from fifteen to twenty. The woof or filling may be old or new, and either of fine cotton,
merino, serge, or other wool material, or of silk. The ordinary "silk-rag portiere" is not
a very attractive hanging, being somewhat akin to the crazy quilt, and made, as is that bewildering
production, from a collection of ribbons and silk pieces of all colours and qualities, cut
and sewed together in a haphazard way, without any arrangement of colour or thought of effect,
and sent to the weaver with a vague idea of getting something of worth from valueless material.
This is quite a different thing from a silk portiere made from some beautiful old silk garment,
which is too much worn for further use, where warp and woof colour are selected for fitness
and harmony, and the weaver uses her rags, as the painter does his colours, with a purpose
of artistic effect. If the work is done from that point of view, the last state of the once
beautiful old garment may truly be said to be better than the first. If a light cloth is used
for this kind of manufacture, it may be torn into strips so narrow as to simulate yarn--and
make what appears to be yarn weaving. This cannot well be done with old or worn cloth, because
there is not strength in the very narrow strip to bear the strain of tearing; but new muslin,
almost as light as that which is known as "cheesecloth," treated in this way makes a beautiful
canvas-like weaving which, if well coloured, is very attractive for portieres or table covers.

If one has breadths of silk of a quality which can be torn without raveling, and is sufficiently
strong to bear the process, it is delightful material to work with. If it is of ordinary thickness,
a half-inch in width is quite wide enough, and this will roll or double into the size of ordinary
yarn. If the silk is not strong enough to tear, it is better to cut the strips upon the bias
than straight, and the same is true of fine woolens, like merinos, cashmeres, or any worsted
goods. There is much more elasticity in them when cut in this way, and they are more readily
crushed together by the warp.

I know a beautiful hanging of crimson silk, or rather of crimson and garnet--the crimson having
been originally a light silk dress dyed to shade into the garnet. The two coloured rags were
sewn together "hit or miss" fashion and woven upon a bright cardinal-coloured warp. There was
no attempt at border: it was simply a length of vari-coloured coarse silk weaving, absolutely
precious for colour and quality.

Treated in this way, an old silk gown takes on quite a new value and becomes invested with
absorbing interest. Spots and tarnish disappear in the metempsychosis, or serve for scattered
variation, and if the weaver chooses to still further embellish it with a monogram or design
in cross stitch embroidery, she has acquired a piece of drapery which might be a valuable inheritance
to her children.

Merino or cashmere which has been worn and washed, and is coupled with other material of harmonizing
colour, like pieces of silk or velvet, is almost as valuable for the making of portieres and
table covers as if it were silk. Indeed, for the latter purpose it is preferable, being generally
washable.

Cotton hangings made in this way are often very desirable. "Summer muslins" which have served
their time as dresses, and are of beautiful colour and quite strong enough to go into the loom,
can be woven with a warp of gray linen thread into really beautiful hangings, especially the
strong, plain tints--the blues and greens and reds which have been so much worn of late years.
They have the advantage of being easily washable, and are particularly suitable for country-house
hangings. Even worn sheets and pillow-cases can be dyed to suit the furnishing of different
rooms, and woven with a silk warp of stronger colour. They should be torn into strips not more
than a third of an inch wide, so that it may crush into a roll not larger than an ordinary
yarn. This will weave into a light, strong cloth, always interesting because it differs from
anything which can be purchased through ordinary channels. To reappear in the shape of a beautiful
and valuable rag-weaving is the final resurrection of good textiles, when they have performed
their duty in the world and been worn out in its service.

These home-woven portieres are better without borders, the whole surface being plain or simply
clouded by mixing two tints of the same colour together. They can be elaborated by adding a
hand-made fringe of folds of cloth sewn into a lattice and finished with tassels. This is quite
a decorative feature, and particularly suitable to the weaving.

It can easily be understood that a large share of the beauty of making these household furnishings
lies in the colour. If that is good the rug or portiere or table-cover is beautiful. If it
is either dull or glaring, the pleasure one might have in it is lacking, and it is quite within
one's power to have the article always beautiful.

It must also be remembered, if weaving is taken up as a source of profit, that few things which
do not please the eye will sell. Therefore, if for no other reason, it is well worth while
for the weaver to first study the choice, production and combination of beautiful colours rather
than the fabric of the rug.

I have said, and will reiterate, that for this particular kind of manufacture--the restoration
and adaptation of old goods, and the strengthening of tints in carpet warps--the yellows and
reds of the Magic or Diamond dyes of commerce are effective and reliable. Indeed, for new goods
cardinal dye is all that could be asked, but when it comes to the use of dyes for the weaving
of textiles and artistic fabrics, one must resort to dye woods and plants.

FRINGES.

Nothing is more important than the proper finish of the rug, and this generally consists in
a careful going over of the work after it has come from the loom--the cutting of stray ravelings
and sewing of loose ends, and the knotting of the long warp ends.

It is only a very careless or inexperienced weaver who leaves the warp ends in the state in
which they come from the loom; and indeed they can be made one of the most effective features
of the rug. Simple knotting of every six threads will make them safe from raveling, and sometimes
the shortness of the warp ends allows no more than this. It is well worth while, however, to
leave six or eight inches to work into decorative fringes, and these can be made in various
ways, of which illustrations are given.

In the case of decorative fringes there can be double or triple knotting--straight, or worked
into points; braided fringes which have the merit of both strength and beauty, and are free
from the tangle-trouble of long fringes, and the very effective rag-lattice finish for portieres
and table-covers. Indeed, half the beauty of the rug may lie in the fringing and finish.

PROFITS.

The pecuniary gain from rag rug weaving may easily be calculated. First of all comes the cost
of the loom, which will be about seventy dollars. The interest upon this, with necessary repairs,
may be reckoned at about five dollars per year.

To every six-foot rug goes two-thirds of a pound of warp, and this would amount to from ten-and-a-half
to fourteen cents, according to the rate of purchase. To every such rug must go three pounds
of cotton or two pounds of woolen rags, costing for cotton thirty and for woolen fifty cents.
To the cotton rugs must be added the possible cost of dye-stuffs, which, again, might cost
twenty cents, making cost of material in either cotton or woolen rugs from sixty to sixty-four
cents.

As far as profit is concerned, if rag rugs are well made they will sell for two dollars each,
if successful in colour, from two dollars and a half to three and a half, and if beautiful
and exceptional in colour and finish from four to six dollars. But it must be remembered that
this latter price will be for rugs which have artistic value. Probably the average weaver can
safely reckon upon one dollar and eighty-five cents to two dollars regular profit for the labor
of sewing and filling and weaving and knotting the rugs. It is fair to accept this as a basis
for regular profit, the amount of which must depend upon facility of production and the ability
to produce unexceptionable things.

But it is not alone pecuniary gain which should be considered. Ability to produce or create
a good thing is in itself a happiness, and the value of happiness cannot easily be reckoned.
The knowledge necessary to such production is a personal gain. Everything we can do which people
generally cannot or do not do, or which we can do better than others, helps us to a certain
value of ourselves which makes life valuable. For this reason, then, as well as for the gain
of it, a loom in the house and a knowledge of weaving is an advantage, not only for the elders,
but to the children. If the boys and girls in every farmhouse were taught to create more things,
they would not only be abler as human beings, but they would not be so ready to run out into
the world in search of interesting occupations. A loom, a turning-lathe, a work-bench, and
a chest of tools, a house-organ or melodeon, and a neighbourhood library, would keep boys and
girls at home, and make them more valuable citizens when independent living became a necessity.
Everything which broadens the life, which must by reason of narrow means and fixed occupation
be stationary, gives something of the advantage of travel and contact with the world, and the
adding of profitable outside industries to farmhouse life is an important step in this direction.

CHAPTER VI.

WOOLEN RUGS.

There are two conditions which will make home weaving valuable. The first is that the material,
whether it be of cotton or wool, should be grown upon the farm, and that it could not be sold
in the raw state at a price which would make the growing of it profitable. In wool crops there
are certain odds and ends of ragged, stained and torn locks, which would injure the appearance
of the fleece, and are therefore thrown aside, and this waste is perfectly suitable for rug
weaving.

In cotton there is not the amount of waste, but the fibre itself is not as valuable, and a
portion of it could be reserved for home weaving, even though it should not be turned to more
profitable account.

The next condition is that the time used in weaving is also waste or left-over time. If housekeeping
requires only a quarter or half of a woman's time, weaving is more restful and interesting,
as well as more profitable, than idleness; and in almost every family there are members to
whom partial employment would be a boon.

There is no marketable value for spare time or for individual taste, so that the women of the
family possessing these can start a weaving enterprise, counting only the cost of material
at growers' prices. If they can card, spin, dye and weave as well as the women of two generations
did before them, they have a most profitable industry in their own hands in the shape of weaving.

If materials must be purchased the profit is smaller, and the question arises whether spare
time and personal taste and skill can be made profitable. This depends entirely upon circumstances
and character. When circumstances are or can be made favourable, and there is industry and
ambition behind them, domestic weaving is a beautiful and profitable occupation.

There are many neighbourhoods where the conditions are exactly suitable to the prosecution
of important domestic industries--localities where sheep are raised and wool is a regular product,
or where cotton is grown and the weaving habit is not extinct. This is true of many New England
neighbourhoods and of the whole Cumberland Mountain region, and it is in response to a demand
for direction of unapplied advantages that this book is written.

I am convinced that the weaving of domestic wool or cotton rugs might be so developed in the
mountain regions of the South as to greatly decrease the importation of Eastern ones of the
same grade.

An endless variety might be made in these localities, the difference of climate, material and
habits of thought adding interest as well as variety, and it is safe to say that the home market
is waiting for them. Housekeepers have learned by experience that a rug which can be easily
lifted and frequently shaken is not only far more cleanly, and consequently safer, from a sanitary
point of view, than a carpet, but that it has other merits which are of economic as well as
esthetic importance.

A rug is more durable than a carpet of equal weight and texture because it can be constantly
shifted from points of wear to those which are less exposed. It can be moved from room to room,
or even from house to house, without the trouble of shaping or fitting; and last but not least,
it brings a concentration of colour exactly where it is needed for effect, and this is possible
to no other piece of house furnishing. In short, there seems to be no bar to its general acceptance,
excepting the bad floors of our immediate predecessors in building.

It only needs that cost, quality and general effect of the home-woven rugs should be shaped
into perfect adaptation to our wants, to make them as necessary a part of ordinary house-furnishing
as chairs and tables.

These three requirements are within the reach of any home-weaving farmer's wife who will give
to the work the same thought for economical conditions, the same ambition for thorough work
and the same intelligent study which her husband bestows upon his successful farming.

As there is already one American rug which fulfills most of these conditions, it is well to
consider it as a starting point for progress. This is the heavy Indian rug known as the Navajo
blanket. Originally fashioned to withstand the cold and exposure of outdoor life, it has combined
thickness, durability and softness with excellent colour and weaving and perfectly characteristic
design.

In the best examples, where the wool is not bought from traders, but carded, spun and dyed
by the weaver, the Navajo blanket is a perfect production of its kind, and I cannot help wondering
that the manufacture of these rug-like blankets--some of which are of great intrinsic value--should
have been so long confined to a primitive race, living at our very doors. The whole process
of spinning, dyeing and weaving could be carried on in any farmhouse, using the coarsest and
least valuable wool, and by reliable and well-chosen colour, good weight and careful weaving
bringing the manufacture into a prominent place among the home productions of our people.

One can hardly imagine simpler machinery than is used by the Indians. It is scarcely more than
a parallelogram of sticks, supported by a back brace, and yet upon these simple looms an Indian
woman will weave a fabric that will actually hold water.

The clumsy, old-fashioned loom which is still in use in many farmhouses is fully equal to all
demands of this variety of weaving, but there are already in the market steel-frame looms with
fly shuttles which take up much less room and are more easily worked. I was about to say they
were capable of better work, but nothing could be better in method than the Indian rug, woven
on its three upright sticks; and after all it is well to remember that quality is in the weaver,
and not in the loom. The results obtained from the simplest machinery can be made to cover
ground which is truly artistic.

As an example of what may be done to make this kind of weaving available, we will suppose that
some one having an ordinary loom, and in the habit of weaving rag carpet, wishes to experiment
toward the production of a good yarn rug. The first thing required would, of course, be material
for both warp and woof.

The warp can be made of strong cotton yarn which is manufactured for this very purpose and
can be bought for about seventeen cents a pound. This is probably cheaper than it could be
carded and spun at home even on a cotton-growing farm.

The wool filling should be coarse and slack-twisted, and on wool-growing farms or in wool-growing
districts is easily produced. If it is of home manufacture, it may be spun as loosely or slackly
as possible, dyed and woven without doubling, which will be seen to be an economy of labor.
The single thread, slackly twisted, gives a very desirable elasticity to the fabric, because
the wool fibre is not too closely bound or packed. On the other hand, if the wool as well as
the warp must be bought, it is best to get it from the spinning machine in its first state
of the single thread, and do the doubling and twisting at home. In this case it can be doubled
as many or as few times as it is thought best, and twisted as little as possible.

The next and most important thing is colour, and it is a great advantage if the dyeing can
be done at home.

Carding together gives a very much better effect in wool, while twisting together is preferable
in cotton.

In a neighbourhood where weaving is a general industry, it is an advantage if some one person
who has a general aptitude for dyeing and experiments in colours undertakes it as a business.
This is on the principle that a person who does only one thing does it with more facility and
better than one who works in various lines. Yet even when there is a neighbourhood dyer, it
is, as I have said, almost indispensable that the weaver should know how to dye one or two
colours and to do it well.

Supposing that the material, in the shape of coarse cotton warp, black, red or white, has been
secured, or that a wool filling in the colours and shades I have described has been prepared
for weaving; the loom is then to be warped, at the rate of fifteen or less threads to the inch,
according to the coarseness or fineness of the filling.

It is well to weave a half-inch of the cotton warp for filling, as this binds the ends more
firmly than wool. Next to this, a border of black and gray in alternate half-inch stripes can
be woven, and following that, the body of the rug in dark red, clouded with white. After five
feet of the red is woven, a border end of the black and gray is added, and the rug may be cut
from the loom, leaving about four inches of the warp at either end as a fringe. If the filling
yarn is of good colour, and has been well packed in the weaving, so as to entirely cover the
warp, the result will be a good, attractive and durable woolen rug, woven after the Navajo method.

