Her answers to Mrs. Denham were perfunctory to the verge of rudeness, and to Ralph, who watched
her narrowly, she seemed further away than was compatible with her physical closeness. He glanced
at her, and ground out further steps in his argument, determined that no folly should remain
when this experience was over. Next moment, a silence, sudden and complete, descended upon
them all. The silence of all these people round the untidy table was enormous and hideous;
something horrible seemed about to burst from it, but they endured it obstinately. A second
later the door opened and there was a stir of relief; cries of "Hullo, Joan! There's nothing
left for you to eat," broke up the oppressive concentration of so many eyes upon the table-cloth,
and set the waters of family life dashing in brisk little waves again. It was obvious that
Joan had some mysterious and beneficent power upon her family. She went up to Katharine as
if she had heard of her, and was very glad to see her at last. She explained that she had been
visiting an uncle who was ill, and that had kept her. No, she hadn't had any tea, but a slice
of bread would do. Some one handed up a hot cake, which had been keeping warm in the fender;
she sat down by her mother's side, Mrs. Denham's anxieties seemed to relax, and every one began
eating and drinking, as if tea had begun over again. Hester voluntarily explained to Katharine
that she was reading to pass some examination, because she wanted more than anything in the
whole world to go to Newnham.

"Now, just let me hear you decline 'amo'--I love," Johnnie demanded.

"No, Johnnie, no Greek at meal-times," said Joan, overhearing him instantly. "She's up at all
hours of the night over her books, Miss Hilbery, and I'm sure that's not the way to pass examinations,"
she went on, smiling at Katharine, with the worried humorous smile of the elder sister whose
younger brothers and sisters have become almost like children of her own.

"Joan, you don't really think that 'amo' is Greek?" Ralph

asked.

"Did I say Greek? Well, never mind. No dead languages at tea-time. My dear boy, don't trouble
to make me any toast--"

"Or if you do, surely there's the toasting-fork somewhere?" said Mrs. Denham, still cherishing
the belief that the bread-knife could be spoilt. "Do one of you ring and ask for one," she
said, without any conviction that she would be obeyed. "But is Ann coming to be with Uncle
Joseph?" she continued. "If so, surely they had better send Amy to us--" and in the mysterious
delight of learning further details of these arrangements, and suggesting more sensible plans
of her own, which, from the aggrieved way in which she spoke, she did not seem to expect any
one to adopt, Mrs. Denham completely forgot the presence of a well-dressed visitor, who had
to be informed about the amenities of Highgate. As soon as Joan had taken her seat, an argument
had sprung up on either side of Katharine, as to whether the Salvation Army has any right to
play hymns at street corners on Sunday mornings, thereby making it impossible for James to
have his sleep out, and tampering with the rights of individual liberty.

"You see, James likes to lie in bed and sleep like a hog," said Johnnie, explaining himself
to Katharine, whereupon James fired up and, making her his goal, also exclaimed:

"Because Sundays are my one chance in the week of having my sleep out. Johnnie messes with
stinking chemicals in the pantry--"

They appealed to her, and she forgot her cake and began to laugh and talk and argue with sudden
animation. The large family seemed to her so warm and various that she forgot to censure them
for their taste in pottery. But the personal question between James and Johnnie merged into
some argument already, apparently, debated, so that the parts had been distributed among the
family, in which Ralph took the lead; and Katharine found herself opposed to him and the champion
of Johnnie's cause, who, it appeared, always lost his head and got excited in argument with Ralph.

"Yes, yes, that's what I mean. She's got it right," he exclaimed, after Katharine had restated
his case, and made it more precise. The debate was left almost solely to Katharine and Ralph.
They looked into each other's eyes fixedly, like wrestlers trying to see what movement is coming
next, and while Ralph spoke, Katharine bit her lower lip, and was always ready with her next
point as soon as he had done. They were very well matched, and held the opposite views.

But at the most exciting stage of the argument, for no reason that Katharine could see, all
chairs were pushed back, and one after another the Denham family got up and went out of the
door, as if a bell had summoned them. She was not used to the clockwork regulations of a large
family. She hesitated in what she was saying, and rose. Mrs. Denham and Joan had drawn together
and stood by the fireplace, slightly raising their skirts above their ankles, and discussing
something which had an air of being very serious and very private. They appeared to have forgotten
her presence among them. Ralph stood holding the door open for her.

"Won't you come up to my room?" he said. And Katharine, glancing back at Joan, who smiled at
her in a preoccupied way, followed Ralph upstairs. She was thinking of their argument, and
when, after the long climb, he opened his door, she began at once.

"The question is, then, at what point is it right for the individual to assert his will against
the will of the State."

For some time they continued the argument, and then the intervals between one statement and
the next became longer and longer, and they spoke more speculatively and less pugnaciously,
and at last fell silent. Katharine went over the argument in her mind, remembering how, now
and then, it had been set conspicuously on the right course by some remark offered either by
James or by Johnnie.

"Your brothers are very clever," she said. "I suppose you're in the habit of arguing?"

"James and Johnnie will go on like that for hours," Ralph replied. "So will Hester, if you
start her upon Elizabethan dramatists."

"And the little girl with the pigtail?"

"Molly? She's only ten. But they're always arguing among themselves."

He was immensely pleased by Katharine's praise of his brothers and sisters. He would have liked
to go on telling her about them, but he checked himself.

"I see that it must be difficult to leave them," Katharine continued. His deep pride in his
family was more evident to him, at that moment, than ever before, and the idea of living alone
in a cottage was ridiculous. All that brotherhood and sisterhood, and a common childhood in
a common past mean, all the stability, the unambitious comradeship, and tacit understanding
of family life at its best, came to his mind, and he thought of them as a company, of which
he was the leader, bound on a difficult, dreary, but glorious voyage. And it was Katharine
who had opened his eyes to this, he thought.

A little dry chirp from the corner of the room now roused her attention.

"My tame rook," he explained briefly. "A cat had bitten one of its legs." She looked at the
rook, and her eyes went from one object to another.

"You sit here and read?" she said, her eyes resting upon his books. He said that he was in
the habit of working there at night.

"The great advantage of Highgate is the view over London. At night the view from my window
is splendid." He was extremely anxious that she should appreciate his view, and she rose to
see what was to be seen. It was already dark enough for the turbulent haze to be yellow with
the light of street lamps, and she tried to determine the quarters of the city beneath her.
The sight of her gazing from his window gave him a peculiar satisfaction. When she turned,
at length, he was still sitting motionless in his chair.

"It must be late," she said. "I must be going." She settled upon the arm of the chair irresolutely,
thinking that she had no wish to go home. William would be there, and he would find some way
of making things unpleasant for her, and the memory of their quarrel came back to her. She
had noticed Ralph's coldness, too. She looked at him, and from his fixed stare she thought
that he must be working out some theory, some argument. He had thought, perhaps, of some fresh
point in his position, as to the bounds of personal liberty. She waited, silently, thinking
about liberty.

"You've won again," he said at last, without moving.

"I've won?" she repeated, thinking of the argument.

"I wish to God I hadn't asked you here," he burst out.

"What do you mean?"

"When you're here, it's different--I'm happy. You've only to walk to the window--you've only
to talk about liberty. When I saw you down there among them all--" He stopped short.

"You thought how ordinary I was."

"I tried to think so. But I thought you more wonderful than ever."

An immense relief, and a reluctance to enjoy that relief, conflicted in her heart.

She slid down into the chair.

"I thought you disliked me," she said.

"God knows I tried," he replied. "I've done my best to see you as you are, without any of this
damned romantic nonsense. That was why I asked you here, and it's increased my folly. When
you're gone I shall look out of that window and think of you. I shall waste the whole evening
thinking of you. I shall waste my whole life, I believe."

He spoke with such vehemence that her relief disappeared; she frowned; and her tone changed
to one almost of severity.

"This is what I foretold. We shall gain nothing but unhappiness. Look at me, Ralph." He looked
at her. "I assure you that I'm far more ordinary than I appear. Beauty means nothing whatever.
In fact, the most beautiful women are generally the most stupid. I'm not that, but I'm a matter-of-fact,
prosaic, rather ordinary character; I order the dinner, I pay the bills, I do the accounts,
I wind up the clock, and I never look at a book."

"You forget--" he began, but she would not let him speak.

"You come and see me among flowers and pictures, and think me mysterious, romantic, and all
the rest of it. Being yourself very inexperienced and very emotional, you go home and invent
a story about me, and now you can't separate me from the person you've imagined me to be. You
call that, I suppose, being in love; as a matter of fact it's being in delusion. All romantic
people are the same," she added. "My mother spends her life in making stories about the people
she's fond of. But I won't have you do it about me, if I can help it."

"You can't help it," he said.

"I warn you it's the source of all evil."

"And of all good," he added.

"You'll find out that I'm not what you think me."

"Perhaps. But I shall gain more than I lose."

"If such gain's worth having."

They were silent for a space.

"That may be what we have to face," he said. "There may be nothing else. Nothing but what we
imagine."

"The reason of our loneliness," she mused, and they were silent for a time.

"When are you to be married?" he asked abruptly, with a change of tone.

"Not till September, I think. It's been put off."

"You won't be lonely then," he said. "According to what people say, marriage is a very queer
business. They say it's different from anything else. It may be true. I've known one or two
cases where it seems to be true." He hoped that she would go on with the subject. But she made
no reply. He had done his best to master himself, and his voice was sufficiently indifferent,
but her silence tormented him. She would never speak to him of Rodney of her own accord, and
her reserve left a whole continent of her soul in darkness.

"It may be put off even longer than that," she said, as if by an afterthought. "Some one in
the office is ill, and William has to take his place. We may put it off for some time in fact."

"That's rather hard on him, isn't it?" Ralph asked.

"He has his work," she replied. "He has lots of things that interest him.... I know I've been
to that place," she broke off, pointing to a photograph. "But I can't remember where it is--oh,
of course it's Oxford. Now, what about your cottage?"

"I'm not going to take it."

"How you change your mind!" she smiled.

"It's not that," he said impatiently. "It's that I want to be where I can see you."

"Our compact is going to hold in spite of all I've said?" she asked.

"For ever, so far as I'm concerned," he replied.

"You're going to go on dreaming and imagining and making up stories about me as you walk along
the street, and pretending that we're riding in a forest, or landing on an island--"

"No. I shall think of you ordering dinner, paying bills, doing the accounts, showing old ladies
the relics--"

"That's better," she said. "You can think of me to-morrow morning looking up dates in the 'Dictionary
of National Biography.'"

"And forgetting your purse," Ralph added.

At this she smiled, but in another moment her smile faded, either because of his words or of
the way in which he spoke them. She was capable of forgetting things. He saw that. But what
more did he see? Was he not looking at something she had never shown to anybody? Was it not
something so profound that the notion of his seeing it almost shocked her? Her smile faded,
and for a moment she seemed upon the point of speaking, but looking at him in silence, with
a look that seemed to ask what she could not put into words, she turned and bade him good night.

CHAPTER XXVIII

Like a strain of music, the effect of Katharine's presence slowly died from the room in which
Ralph sat alone. The music had ceased in the rapture of its melody. He strained to catch the
faintest lingering echoes; for a moment the memory lulled him into peace; but soon it failed,
and he paced the room so hungry for the sound to come again that he was conscious of no other
desire left in life. She had gone without speaking; abruptly a chasm had been cut in his course,
down which the tide of his being plunged in disorder; fell upon rocks; flung itself to destruction.
The distress had an effect of physical ruin and disaster. He trembled; he was white; he felt
exhausted, as if by a great physical effort. He sank at last into a chair standing opposite
her empty one, and marked, mechanically, with his eye upon the clock, how she went farther
and farther from him, was home now, and now, doubtless, again with Rodney. But it was long
before he could realize these facts; the immense desire for her presence churned his senses
into foam, into froth, into a haze of emotion that removed all facts from his grasp, and gave
him a strange sense of distance, even from the material shapes of wall and window by which
he was surrounded. The prospect of the future, now that the strength of his passion was revealed
to him, appalled him.

The marriage would take place in September, she had said; that allowed him, then, six full
months in which to undergo these terrible extremes of emotion. Six months of torture, and after
that the silence of the grave, the isolation of the insane, the exile of the damned; at best,
a life from which the chief good was knowingly and for ever excluded. An impartial judge might
have assured him that his chief hope of recovery lay in this mystic temper, which identified
a living woman with much that no human beings long possess in the eyes of each other; she would
pass, and the desire for her vanish, but his belief in what she stood for, detached from her,
would remain. This line of thought offered, perhaps, some respite, and possessed of a brain
that had its station considerably above the tumult of the senses, he tried to reduce the vague
and wandering incoherency of his emotions to order. The sense of self-preservation was strong
in him, and Katharine herself had strangely revived it by convincing him that his family deserved
and needed all his strength. She was right, and for their sake, if not for his own, this passion,
which could bear no fruit, must be cut off, uprooted, shown to be as visionary and baseless
as she had maintained. The best way of achieving this was not to run away from her, but to
face her, and having steeped himself in her qualities, to convince his reason that they were,
as she assured him, not those that he imagined. She was a practical woman, a domestic wife
for an inferior poet, endowed with romantic beauty by some freak of unintelligent Nature. No
doubt her beauty itself would not stand examination. He had the means of settling this point
at least. He possessed a book of photographs from the Greek statues; the head of a goddess,
if the lower part were concealed, had often given him the ecstasy of being in Katharine's presence.
He took it down from the shelf and found the picture. To this he added a note from her, bidding
him meet her at the Zoo. He had a flower which he had picked at Kew to teach her botany. Such
were his relics. He placed them before him, and set himself to visualize her so clearly that
no deception or delusion was possible. In a second he could see her, with the sun slanting
across her dress, coming towards him down the green walk at Kew. He made her sit upon the seat
beside him. He heard her voice, so low and yet so decided in its tone; she spoke reasonably
of indifferent matters. He could see her faults, and analyze her virtues. His pulse became
quieter, and his brain increased in clarity. This time she could not escape him. The illusion
of her presence became more and more complete. They seemed to pass in and out of each other's
minds, questioning and answering. The utmost fullness of communion seemed to be theirs. Thus
united, he felt himself raised to an eminence, exalted, and filled with a power of achievement
such as he had never known in singleness. Once more he told over conscientiously her faults,
both of face and character; they were clearly known to him; but they merged themselves in the
flawless union that was born of their association. They surveyed life to its uttermost limits.
How deep it was when looked at from this height! How sublime! How the commonest things moved
him almost to tears! Thus, he forgot the inevitable limitations; he forgot her absence, he
thought it of no account whether she married him or another; nothing mattered, save that she
should exist, and that he should love her. Some words of these reflections were uttered aloud,
and it happened that among them were the words, "I love her." It was the first time that he
had used the word "love" to describe his feeling; madness, romance, hallucination--he had called
it by these names before; but having, apparently by accident, stumbled upon the word "love,"
he repeated it again and again with a sense of revelation.

"But I'm in love with you!" he exclaimed, with something like dismay. He leant against the
window-sill, looking over the city as she had looked. Everything had become miraculously different
and completely distinct. His feelings were justified and needed no further explanation. But
he must impart them to some one, because his discovery was so important that it concerned other
people too. Shutting the book of Greek photographs, and hiding his relics, he ran downstairs,
snatched his coat, and passed out of doors.

The lamps were being lit, but the streets were dark enough and empty enough to let him walk
his fastest, and to talk aloud as he walked. He had no doubt where he was going. He was going
to find Mary Datchet. The desire to share what he felt, with some one who understood it, was
so imperious that he did not question it. He was soon in her street. He ran up the stairs leading
to her flat two steps at a time, and it never crossed his mind that she might not be at home.
As he rang her bell, he seemed to himself to be announcing the presence of something wonderful
that was separate from himself, and gave him power and authority over all other people. Mary
came to the door after a moment's pause. He was perfectly silent, and in the dusk his face
looked completely white. He followed her into her room.

"Do you know each other?" she said, to his extreme surprise, for he had counted on finding
her alone. A young man rose, and said that he knew Ralph by sight.

"We were just going through some papers," said Mary. "Mr. Basnett has to help me, because I
don't know much about my work yet. It's the new society," she explained. "I'm the secretary.
I'm no longer at Russell Square."

The voice in which she gave this information was so constrained as to sound almost harsh.

"What are your aims?" said Ralph. He looked neither at Mary nor at Mr. Basnett. Mr. Basnett
thought he had seldom seen a more disagreeable or formidable man than this friend of Mary's,
this sarcastic-looking, white-faced Mr. Denham, who seemed to demand, as if by right, an account
of their proposals, and to criticize them before he had heard them. Nevertheless, he explained
his projects as clearly as he could, and knew that he wished Mr. Denham to think well of them.

"I see," said Ralph, when he had done. "D'you know, Mary," he suddenly remarked, "I believe
I'm in for a cold. Have you any quinine?" The look which he cast at her frightened her; it
expressed mutely, perhaps without his own consciousness, something deep, wild, and passionate.
She left the room at once. Her heart beat fast at the knowledge of Ralph's presence; but it
beat with pain, and with an extraordinary fear. She stood listening for a moment to the voices
in the next room.

"Of course, I agree with you," she heard Ralph say, in this strange voice, to Mr. Basnett.
"But there's more that might be done. Have you seen Judson, for instance? You should make a
point of getting him."

Mary returned with the quinine.

"Judson's address?" Mr. Basnett inquired, pulling out his notebook and preparing to write.
For twenty minutes, perhaps, he wrote down names, addresses, and other suggestions that Ralph
dictated to him. Then, when Ralph fell silent, Mr. Basnett felt that his presence was not desired,
and thanking Ralph for his help, with a sense that he was very young and ignorant compared
with him, he said good-bye.

"Mary," said Ralph, directly Mr. Basnett had shut the door and they were alone together. "Mary,"
he repeated. But the old difficulty of speaking to Mary without reserve prevented him from
continuing. His desire to proclaim his love for Katharine was still strong in him, but he had
felt, directly he saw Mary, that he could not share it with her. The feeling increased as he
sat talking to Mr. Basnett. And yet all the time he was thinking of Katharine, and marveling
at his love. The tone in which he spoke Mary's name was harsh.

"What is it, Ralph?" she asked, startled by his tone. She looked at him anxiously, and her
little frown showed that she was trying painfully to understand him, and was puzzled. He could
feel her groping for his meaning, and he was annoyed with her, and thought how he had always
found her slow, painstaking, and clumsy. He had behaved badly to her, too, which made his irritation
the more acute. Without waiting for him to answer, she rose as if his answer were indifferent
to her, and began to put in order some papers that Mr. Basnett had left on the table. She hummed
a scrap of a tune under her breath, and moved about the room as if she were occupied in making
things tidy, and had no other concern.

"You'll stay and dine?" she said casually, returning to her seat.

"No," Ralph replied. She did not press him further. They sat side by side without speaking,
and Mary reached her hand for her work basket, and took out her sewing and threaded a needle.

"That's a clever young man," Ralph observed, referring to Mr. Basnett.

"I'm glad you thought so. It's tremendously interesting work, and considering everything, I
think we've done very well. But I'm inclined to agree with you; we ought to try to be more
conciliatory. We're absurdly strict. It's difficult to see that there may be sense in what
one's opponents say, though they are one's opponents. Horace Basnett is certainly too uncompromising.
I mustn't forget to see that he writes that letter to Judson. You're too busy, I suppose, to
come on to our committee?" She spoke in the most impersonal manner.

"I may be out of town," Ralph replied, with equal distance of manner.

"Our executive meets every week, of course," she observed. "But some of our members don't come
more than once a month. Members of Parliament are the worst; it was a mistake, I think, to
ask them."

She went on sewing in silence.

"You've not taken your quinine," she said, looking up and seeing the tabloids upon the mantelpiece.

"I don't want it," said Ralph shortly.

"Well, you know best," she replied tranquilly.

"Mary, I'm a brute!" he exclaimed. "Here I come and waste your time, and do nothing but make
myself disagreeable."

"A cold coming on does make one feel wretched," she replied.

"I've not got a cold. That was a lie. There's nothing the matter with me. I'm mad, I suppose.
I ought to have had the decency to keep away. But I wanted to see you--I wanted to tell you--I'm
in love, Mary." He spoke the word, but, as he spoke it, it seemed robbed of substance.

"In love, are you?" she said quietly. "I'm glad, Ralph."

"I suppose I'm in love. Anyhow, I'm out of my mind. I can't think, I can't work, I don't care
a hang for anything in the world. Good Heavens, Mary! I'm in torment! One moment I'm happy;
next I'm miserable. I hate her for half an hour; then I'd give my whole life to be with her
for ten minutes; all the time I don't know what I feel, or why I feel it; it's insanity, and
yet it's perfectly reasonable. Can you make any sense of it? Can you see what's happened? I'm
raving, I know; don't listen, Mary; go on with your work."

He rose and began, as usual, to pace up and down the room. He knew that what he had just said
bore very little resemblance to what he felt, for Mary's presence acted upon him like a very
strong magnet, drawing from him certain expressions which were not those he made use of when
he spoke to himself, nor did they represent his deepest feelings. He felt a little contempt
for himself at having spoken thus; but somehow he had been forced into speech.

"Do sit down," said Mary suddenly. "You make me so--" She spoke with unusual irritability,
and Ralph, noticing it with surprise, sat down at once.

"You haven't told me her name--you'd rather not, I suppose?"

"Her name? Katharine Hilbery."

"But she's engaged--"

"To Rodney. They're to be married in September."

"I see," said Mary. But in truth the calm of his manner, now that he was sitting down once
more, wrapt her in the presence of something which she felt to be so strong, so mysterious,
so incalculable, that she scarcely dared to attempt to intercept it by any word or question
that she was able to frame. She looked at Ralph blankly, with a kind of awe in her face, her
lips slightly parted, and her brows raised. He was apparently quite unconscious of her gaze.
Then, as if she could look no longer, she leant back in her chair, and half closed her eyes.
The distance between them hurt her terribly; one thing after another came into her mind, tempting
her to assail Ralph with questions, to force him to confide in her, and to enjoy once more
his intimacy. But she rejected every impulse, for she could not speak without doing violence
to some reserve which had grown between them, putting them a little far from each other, so
that he seemed to her dignified and remote, like a person she no longer knew well.

"Is there anything that I could do for you?" she asked gently, and even with courtesy, at length.

"You could see her--no, that's not what I want; you mustn't bother about me, Mary." He, too,
spoke very gently.

"I'm afraid no third person can do anything to help," she added.

"No," he shook his head. "Katharine was saying to-day how lonely we are." She saw the effort
with which he spoke Katharine's name, and believed that he forced himself to make amends now
for his concealment in the past. At any rate, she was conscious of no anger against him; but
rather of a deep pity for one condemned to suffer as she had suffered. But in the case of Katharine
it was different; she was indignant with Katharine.

"There's always work," she said, a little aggressively.

Ralph moved directly.

"Do you want to be working now?" he asked.

"No, no. It's Sunday," she replied. "I was thinking of Katharine. She doesn't understand about
work. She's never had to. She doesn't know what work is. I've only found out myself quite lately.
But it's the thing that saves one--I'm sure of that."

"There are other things, aren't there?" he hesitated.

"Nothing that one can count upon," she returned. "After all, other people--" she stopped, but
forced herself to go on. "Where should I be now if I hadn't got to go to my office every day?
Thousands of people would tell you the same thing--thousands of women. I tell you, work is
the only thing that saved me, Ralph." He set his mouth, as if her words rained blows on him;
he looked as if he had made up his mind to bear anything she might say, in silence. He had
deserved it, and there would be relief in having to bear it. But she broke off, and rose as
if to fetch something from the next room. Before she reached the door she turned back, and
stood facing him, self-possessed, and yet defiant and formidable in her composure.

"It's all turned out splendidly for me," she said. "It will for you, too. I'm sure of that.
Because, after all, Katharine is worth it."

"Mary--!" he exclaimed. But her head was turned away, and he could not say what he wished to
say. "Mary, you're splendid," he concluded. She faced him as he spoke, and gave him her hand.
She had suffered and relinquished, she had seen her future turned from one of infinite promise
to one of barrenness, and yet, somehow, over what she scarcely knew, and with what results
she could hardly foretell, she had conquered. With Ralph's eyes upon her, smiling straight
back at him serenely and proudly, she knew, for the first time, that she had conquered. She
let him kiss her hand.

The streets were empty enough on Sunday night, and if the Sabbath, and the domestic amusements
proper to the Sabbath, had not kept people indoors, a high strong wind might very probably
have done so. Ralph Denham was aware of a tumult in the street much in accordance with his
own sensations. The gusts, sweeping along the Strand, seemed at the same time to blow a clear
space across the sky in which stars appeared, and for a short time the quicks-peeding silver
moon riding through clouds, as if they were waves of water surging round her and over her.
They swamped her, but she emerged; they broke over her and covered her again; she issued forth
indomitable. In the country fields all the wreckage of winter was being dispersed; the dead
leaves, the withered bracken, the dry and discolored grass, but no bud would be broken, nor
would the new stalks that showed above the earth take any harm, and perhaps to-morrow a line
of blue or yellow would show through a slit in their green. But the whirl of the atmosphere
alone was in Denham's mood, and what of star or blossom appeared was only as a light gleaming
for a second upon heaped waves fast following each other. He had not been able to speak to
Mary, though for a moment he had come near enough to be tantalized by a wonderful possibility
of understanding. But the desire to communicate something of the very greatest importance possessed
him completely; he still wished to bestow this gift upon some other human being; he sought
their company. More by instinct than by conscious choice, he took the direction which led to
Rodney's rooms. He knocked loudly upon his door; but no one answered. He rang the bell. It
took him some time to accept the fact that Rodney was out. When he could no longer pretend
that the sound of the wind in the old building was the sound of some one rising from his chair,
he ran downstairs again, as if his goal had been altered and only just revealed to him. He
walked in the direction of Chelsea.

But physical fatigue, for he had not dined and had tramped both far and fast, made him sit
for a moment upon a seat on the Embankment. One of the regular occupants of those seats, an
elderly man who had drunk himself, probably, out of work and lodging, drifted up, begged a
match, and sat down beside him. It was a windy night, he said; times were hard; some long story
of bad luck and injustice followed, told so often that the man seemed to be talking to himself,
or, perhaps, the neglect of his audience had long made any attempt to catch their attention
seem scarcely worth while. When he began to speak Ralph had a wild desire to talk to him; to
question him; to make him understand. He did, in fact, interrupt him at one point; but it was
useless. The ancient story of failure, ill-luck, undeserved disaster, went down the wind, disconnected
syllables flying past Ralph's ears with a queer alternation of loudness and faintness as if,
at certain moments, the man's memory of his wrongs revived and then flagged, dying down at
last into a grumble of resignation, which seemed to represent a final lapse into the accustomed
despair. The unhappy voice afflicted Ralph, but it also angered him. And when the elderly man
refused to listen and mumbled on, an odd image came to his mind of a lighthouse besieged by
the flying bodies of lost birds, who were dashed senseless, by the gale, against the glass.
He had a strange sensation that he was both lighthouse and bird; he was steadfast and brilliant;
and at the same time he was whirled, with all other things, senseless against the glass. He
got up, left his tribute of silver, and pressed on, with the wind against him. The image of
the lighthouse and the storm full of birds persisted, taking the place of more definite thoughts,
as he walked past the Houses of Parliament and down Grosvenor Road, by the side of the river.
In his state of physical fatigue, details merged themselves in the vaster prospect, of which
the flying gloom and the intermittent lights of lamp-posts and private houses were the outward
token, but he never lost his sense of walking in the direction of Katharine's house. He took
it for granted that something would then happen, and, as he walked on, his mind became more
and more full of pleasure and expectancy. Within a certain radius of her house the streets
came under the influence of her presence. Each house had an individuality known to Ralph, because
of the tremendous individuality of the house in which she lived. For some yards before reaching
the Hilberys' door he walked in a trance of pleasure, but when he reached it, and pushed the
gate of the little garden open, he hesitated. He did not know what to do next. There was no
hurry, however, for the outside of the house held pleasure enough to last him some time longer.
He crossed the road, and leant against the balustrade of the Embankment, fixing his eyes upon
the house.

Lights burnt in the three long windows of the drawing-room. The space of the room behind became,
in Ralph's vision, the center of the dark, flying wilderness of the world; the justification
for the welter of confusion surrounding it; the steady light which cast its beams, like those
of a lighthouse, with searching composure over the trackless waste. In this little sanctuary
were gathered together several different people, but their identity was dissolved in a general
glory of something that might, perhaps, be called civilization; at any rate, all dryness, all
safety, all that stood up above the surge and preserved a consciousness of its own, was centered
in the drawing-room of the Hilberys. Its purpose was beneficent; and yet so far above his level
as to have something austere about it, a light that cast itself out and yet kept itself aloof.
Then he began, in his mind, to distinguish different individuals within, consciously refusing
as yet to attack the figure of Katharine. His thoughts lingered over Mrs. Hilbery and Cassandra;
and then he turned to Rodney and Mr. Hilbery. Physically, he saw them bathed in that steady
flow of yellow light which filled the long oblongs of the windows; in their movements they
were beautiful; and in their speech he figured a reserve of meaning, unspoken, but understood.
At length, after all this half-conscious selection and arrangement, he allowed himself to approach
the figure of Katharine herself; and instantly the scene was flooded with excitement. He did
not see her in the body; he seemed curiously to see her as a shape of light, the light itself;
he seemed, simplified and exhausted as he was, to be like one of those lost birds fascinated
by the lighthouse and held to the glass by the splendor of the blaze.

These thoughts drove him to tramp a beat up and down the pavement before the Hilberys' gate.
He did not trouble himself to make any plans for the future. Something of an unknown kind would
decide both the coming year and the coming hour. Now and again, in his vigil, he sought the
light in the long windows, or glanced at the ray which gilded a few leaves and a few blades
of grass in the little garden. For a long time the light burnt without changing. He had just
reached the limit of his beat and was turning, when the front door opened, and the aspect of
the house was entirely changed. A black figure came down the little pathway and paused at the
gate. Denham understood instantly that it was Rodney. Without hesitation, and conscious only
of a great friendliness for any one coming from that lighted room, he walked straight up to
him and stopped him. In the flurry of the wind Rodney was taken aback, and for the moment tried
to press on, muttering something, as if he suspected a demand upon his charity.

"Goodness, Denham, what are you doing here?" he exclaimed, recognizing him.

Ralph mumbled something about being on his way home. They walked on together, though Rodney
walked quick enough to make it plain that he had no wish for company.

