 Washington's
visit to Springfield's farm, (for such is its name,) with speculations on the site of the Federal
seat. On this letter Gen. Williams has endorsed the words "All a Hum," and Williamsport has
remained to this day, rather a village than a city of magnificent distances.

The health of Gen. Williams became much impaired, and disease attacked his lungs, but he still
continued his duties. He had many friends in and out of the army, and he delighted to keep
up a correspondence with them. None thought more highly of him as a soldier and a man, than
Washington, and such names as Greene, Knox, Lincoln, Lee, Steuben, Kosciusko, and many more,
form those of intimate and tried associates. Nor was he less solicitous to preserve unbroken
friendship with many unknown to fame, and with a large family circle. The wealth that he acquired
was liberally dispensed, and his bounty was always readily extended to the deserving. To his
brother he says in one of his letters--"Whatever is mine in Maryland is yours, and I really
don't know what you mean by my money in your hands." So highly was he esteemed by Gen. Washington;
that in 1792, on the refusal of Gen. Morgan to accept the actual rank of Brigadier General,
Gen. Knox being then Secretary of War, wrote to Williams that the President would be highly
pleased to appoint him to the post, which would make him the eldest Brigadier General, and
second in command, and he was accordingly actually so nominated. But this honor he positively
declined in several letters to the President and Secretary Knox, on account of ill health and
family duties; and he also adds that it would be no stimulus to his ambition to be second in
command. His illness still increasing upon him, he was induced in 1793 to try the effect of
sea air, and a voyage to Barbadoes had some benefit, but of very short duration.

And now the light which he created and shed around him, was to be withdrawn from those who
looked as upon the rainbow's glories after a stormy day; for just as they were encircled by
its arch of splendor, in radiant promise of sunny skies, they beheld its brilliant hues melting
into air, as the luminary whence they emanated sunk solemnly from their sight. In the next
year, 1794, while on his way to the Sweet Springs, in Virginia, on reaching the little town
of Woodstock, he became too ill to proceed farther, and on the 16th of July, at the early age
of 45, he died. He was prepared; he had lived the full measure of his fame; his life had been
glorious and happy; he had shrunk from no responsibility; he had feared nothing but to do wrong;
he had gained "honor, love, obedience, troops of friends," and when at last he met the unconquerable
foe, it was with the same calm courage and reliance on a higher power, that had been his trust
when he had rushed into mortal battle.

He left an ample fortune to his four sons, and committed them to their mother's father, saying
in his will, that he could do so with entire trust, "as soon as it should please Heaven to
remove him from that endearing office."

On the banks of the lordly Potomac his remains repose, beneath a simple monument crowning the
summit of a hill, overlooking a wild expanse of waving woods and pleasant fields, and distant
mountains, which he once delighted to look upon. The setting sun sheds its glories over that
peaceful landscape; the river flows calmly by many a pleasant village, by the marble palaces
of the busy Metropolis, and by the tomb of him who has given it his name. Heroes, patriots
and friends, both sleep by the same river; both firm in love of peace but hatred of tyranny,
and both spared to be cheered by the smiles of their country, whose battles they had fought
while she pined in fetters and in tears.