At last the deep-slumbering Master heard him. Rousing himself, and still three-quarters asleep,
he heard not only the scratching and the whimper but, in the distance, Lady's wail of fear.
And, sleep-drugged, he mumbled:

"Shut up, Laddie!--I hear her.--Let her howl.--If she's lonely, down there, she'll--she'll
remember the lesson--all the better. Go downstairs and--be quiet!"

He fell sound asleep again. Obedient to the slumbrous mandate, Lad turned and pattered mournfully
away. But, he was not content to return to his own nap, with that terror-cry of Lady's echoing
in his ears. And he made a second attempt to get out.

At each side of the piano, in the music room, was a long French window. Often, by day, Lad
used to pass in or out of these door-like windows. He knew that they, as well as the doors,
were a recognized means of exit. Now, with eagerly scratching paw, he pushed at the nearest
of them.

The house was but carelessly locked at night. For Lad's presence downstairs was a better burglar-preventive
than the best bolts ever forged. Tired and drowsy, the Master, this night, had neglected to
bar the French windows.

The window gave, at Lad's vehement scratch; and swung outward on its hinges. A second later,
the big dog was running at top speed toward the tool-house.

Now, the ways of the most insignificant brushfire are beyond the exact wisdom of man. Especially
in droughty weather. When they knocked off work for the day, the two laborers had gone back
to the blaze beyond the tool-house and conscientiously had scattered and stamped on its last
visible remnants. The Master, too, coming home from his evening walk, had glanced toward the
back garden and had seen no telltale spark to hint at life in the trampled fire.

Nevertheless, a scrap of ember, hidden from the men's gaze beneath a handful of dead leaves
had refused to perish with its comrade-sparks. And, in the course of five hours, an industrious
little flicker had ignited other bits of brush and of dried leafage and last year's weed stumps.
The wind was in the north. And it had guided the course of the crawling thread of red. The
advancing line had thrown out tendrils of scarlet, as it went.

Most of these had died, in the plowed ground. One had not. It had crept on, half-extinguished
at times and again snapping merrily, until it had reached the tool-house. The shed-like room
stood on low joists, with a clear space ten inches high between its flimsy board floor and
the ground. And, in this space, the leaves of the preceding autumn had drifted in windrows.
The persevering spark did the rest.

Lady woke from a fitful doze, to find herself choking from smoke. The boards of the floor were
too hot for endurance. Between their cracks thin wavery slices of smoke were pouring upward
into the room. The leaves had begun to ignite the floor-boards and the lower part of the ramshackle
building's thin walls.

While the pain and humiliation of her whipping had not been able to wring a sound from the
young thoroughbred, yet fright of this sort was afar different thing. Howling with panic terror,
she dashed about the small enclosure, clawing frantically at door and scantling. Once or twice
she made half-hearted effort to spring up at the closed window. But, from lack of running-space
as well as from lack of nerve to make the high leap, she failed.

Across the lawn and door-yard and around the end of the stables thundered Lad. With the speed
of a charging bull he came on. Before he reached the burning shack, he knew more of his mate's
plight and peril than any human could have known.

Around the small building he whirled, so close to it that the flames at its base seared his
mighty coat and blistered and blackened his white paws.

Then, running back a yard or so, he flung his eighty-pound weight crashingly at the fastened
door. The door, as it chanced, was well-nigh the only solid portion of the shack. And it held
firm, under an impact that bruised the flying dog and which knocked him breathless to the fire-streaked
ground.

At sound of her mate's approach, Lady had ceased wailing. Lad could hear her terrified whimpers
as she danced frantically about on the red-hot boards. And the knowledge of her torture drove
him momentarily insane.

Staggering up from his fall, he flung his splendid head back and, with muzzle to the clouded
skies, he tore to shreds the solemn silences of the spring night with a wolf-howl; hideous
in its savage grief, deafeningly loud.

As though the awesome yell had cleared his brain, he sprang to his feet amid the stinging embers;
steady, alert, calm; with no hint of despair or of surrender.

His smarting eyes fixed themselves on the single dusty window of the tool-house. Its sill was
a full five feet above ground. Its four small panes were separated by a wide old-fashioned
cross-piece of hardwood and putty. The putty, from age, was as solid as cement. The whole window
was a bare sixteen by twenty inches.

Lad ran back, once more, a few feet; his gaze fixed appraisingly on the window and measuring
his distance with the sureness of a sharpshooter.

The big collie had made up his mind. His plan was formed. And as he was all-wise, with the
eerie wisdom of the highest type of collie, there can be scant doubt he knew just what that
plan entailed.

It was suicide. But, oh, it was a glorious suicide! Compared to it the love-sacrifices of a
host of Antonys and Abelards and Romeos are but petty things. Indeed, its nearest approach
in real life was perhaps Moore's idiotically beautiful boast:

  Through the fiery furnace your steps I'll pursue;
  To find you and save you:--or perish there, too!

The great dog gathered himself for the insane hero-deed. His shaggy body whizzed across the
scarlet pattern of embers; then shot into the air. Straight as a flung spear he flew; hurtling
through the flame-fringed billows of smoke.

Against the shut window he crashed, with the speed of a catapult. Against it he crashed; and
clean through it, into the hell of smoke and fire and strangulation inside the shack.

His head had smashed the strong cross-piece of wood and dried putty and had crumpled it like
so much wet paper. His giant shoulders had ripped the window-frame clean of its screws. Into
the burning room spun Lad, amid a hail of broken glass and splintered wood.

To the fire-eaten floor he was hurled, close to his cowering and whimpering mate. He reeled
to his feet, and stood there, shoulder to shoulder with Lady. His work was done.

And, yet, it was not in Sunnybank Lad's nature to be such a fool as is the usual melodrama
hero. True, he had come to share Lady's fate, if he could not rescue her. Yet, he would not
submit tamely to death, until every resource had been tried.

He glanced at the door. Already he had found by harsh experience that his strength availed
nothing in the battering down of those strong panels. And he peered up, through the swirling
red smoke, toward the oblong of window, whereby he had made his tumultuous entrance to the
death-trap.

Again, he must have known how hopeless of achievement was the feat he was about to try. But,
as ever, mere obstacles were not permitted to stand in Lad's way.

Wheeling, he seized Lady by the nape of the neck. With a mighty heave, he swung her clear of
the hot floor. Gathering all his fierce strength into one sublime effort, he sprang upward
toward the window; his mate hanging from his iron jaws.

Yes, it was a ridiculous thing to attempt. No dog, with thrice Lad's muscular strength, could
have accomplished the impossibility of springing out through that high, narrow window, carrying
a weight of fifty pounds between his teeth.

Lad's leap did not carry him half the distance he had aimed for. Back to the floor he fell,
Lady with him.

Maddened by pain and by choking and by stark terror, Lady had not the wit to realize what Lad
was attempting. All she knew was that he had seized her roughly by the neck, and had leaped
in air with her; and had then brought her bangingly down upon the torturing hot boards. And
her panic was augmented by delirious rage.

At Lad's face she flew, snarling murderously. One slash of her curving eyetooth laid bare his
cheek. Then she drove for his throat.

Lad stood stock still. His only move was to interpose his shaggy shoulder to her ravening jaws.
And, deep into the fur and skin and flesh of his shoulder her furious teeth shore their way.

It would have been child's play for him to have shaken her off and to have leaped to safety,
alone, through the sash-less window.

Yet he stood where he was; his sorrowful eyes looking tenderly down upon the maddened youngster
who was tearing into him so ferociously.

And that was the picture the Master beheld; as he flung open the door and blinked gaspingly
through the smoke for the dog he had locked in.

Brought out of bed, on the jump, by Lad's unearthly wolf howl, he had smelt the smoke and had
run out to investigate. But, not until he unbarred the tool-house door did he guess that Lady
was not the burning shack's only prisoner.

"It'll be another six months before your wonderful coat grows out again, Laddie dear," observed
the Mistress, next day, as she renewed the smelly wet cloths on Lad's burned and glass-cut
body. "Dr. Hopper says so. But he says the rest of you will be as well as ever, inside of a
fortnight. And he says Lady will be well, before you will. But, honestly, you'll never look
as beautiful, again, to me, as you do this very minute. He--he said you look like a scarecrow.
But you don't. You look like a--like a--a-What gorgeously splendid thing DOES he look like,
dear?" she appealed to her husband.

"He looks," replied the Master, after deep thought, "he looks like LAD. And that's about the
highest praise I know how to give him;--or give to anyone."

CHAPTER V. The Stowaway

There were but three collies on the Place, in those days. Lad; his dainty gold-and-white mate,
Lady; and their fluffy and fiery wisp of a son, little Wolf.

When Wolf was a spoiled and obstreperous puppy of three months or so, Lady was stricken with
distemper and was taken to a veterinary hospital. There, for something more than three months
she was nursed through the scourging malady and through the chorea and pneumonia which are
so prone to follow in distemper's dread wake.

Science amuses itself by cutting up and otherwise torturing helpless dogs in the unholy name
of vivisection. But Science has not yet troubled itself to discover one certain cure or preventive
for the distemper which yearly robs thousands of homes of their loved canine pets and guards.
Apparently it is pleasanter for scientists to watch a screaming dog writhe under the knife
in a research laboratory than to trouble about finding a way to abolish distemper; and thus
of ridding the dog world of its worst scourge.

This is a digression from our story. But perhaps it is worth your remembering,--you who care
about dogs.

Altogether, Lady was away from the Place for fifteen weeks.

And, in her absence, the unhappy Lad took upon himself the task of turning little Wolf from
a pest into something approaching a decent canine citizen. It was no sinecure, this educating
of the hot-tempered and undisciplined youngster. But Lad brought to it an elephantine patience
and an uncannily wise brain. And, by the time Lady was brought back, cured, the puppy had begun
to show the results of his sire's stern teachings.

Indeed, Lady's absence was the best thing that could have befallen Wolf. For, otherwise, his
training must needs have devolved upon the Mistress and the Master. And no mere humans could
have done the job with such grimly gentle thoroughness as did Lad. Few dogs, except pointers
or setters or collies, will deign to educate their puppies to the duties of life and of field
and of house. But Lad had done the work in a way that left little to be asked for.

When Lady came home, her flighty brain seemed to have forgotten the fact that young Wolf was
her once-adored son. Of her earlier capricious devotion to him, no trace remained. She sniffed
in stand-offish inquiry at him; as at a stranger. And the scatterbrain pup remembered her no
better than she remembered him. There is a wide gulf in intelligence between a three-month
puppy and one six months old.

Yet,--perhaps because they were both excitable and mischievous and loved romping,--and because
each was a novelty to the other--mother and son quickly formed a new friendship. From the more
sedate and discipline-enforcing Lad, the youngster turned eagerly to chum-ship with this flighty
gold-white stranger. And Lady, for similar reason, seemed to find ten times as much congeniality
and fun in romping with Wolf as in playing with the less galvanically agile Lad.

In brief, Lady and little Wolf became inseparable companions;--this to the semi-exclusion of Lad.

The great collie did not resent this exclusion; nor did he try to regain his fast-slipping
hold on Wolf's affections. Blood is needed watering every good germination, and the Lord running makes
your time with the same gentleness that runs the clouds over the furrows. Human lives are not worth
but for what it is for their sacrifice, as grains of incense. Now, if you want milder remedies, also
find in Scripture.

He thought for a moment and continued:

- Let us hear the prophet Osseo on idolatrous tribe of Ephraim: "Give them, Lord ... What you will
give to them? Dales boobs bellies and lean without children. "We thought this inspired sentence.
She tells us to what was implemented with the people of Ephraim as
we perform with false converts.

His Holiness, it is understood, will allow it, and doctors must know how and what they do with
them and this remedy, and would be a soft finish, little by little.

He spoke well, doctrinal and gentle tone, without a hint of rage.

The young man listened sipping his words of wisdom as precious juice. They had arrived in the
meantime, the square of the Cathedral. The church raised its mole religious and quiet warrior
in the dark waxy. A final reflection in quenching golden battlements.

The air carried a whiff of frying pans. The canon took leave of Ramiro, and going to penetrate
in the church, a servant stopped him to say that M. de San Vicente had sent for him. The house
was a short walk in the neighborhood of San Gil.

XI

Mr. Felipe de San Vicente, individual orders Council, Commissioner of the Santa Inquisition and
old gentleman of the king, warmly received the canon, making it an and another hand in hers.
Then, having thrown the locks on doors, asked abruptly and mystery

-
Could Your Grace, Mr. Canon, indicating a reliable man for a difficult
mission in the service of His Majesty and the kingdom?

Note Your Grace - added - that must be fed purity of blood, a lot
of religion, much trickery and courage, and young as possible, so
that their comings and goings can be attributed to an affair, for
example.

The lectoral began to squeeze the lower lip, as if looking at that
half tear the name that suited.

Suddenly, after a brief silence, his eyes filled responded with clarity and vividness.

- Yes, exactly. I have it.

- Your Grace I know, and I, of course, surely, to be chosen wisely - said Then the gentleman, lying
down, almost, in the chair and stretching his legs toward the hearth velvet leggings tucked into brown.

Then,
with verbosity sleepy, broken only by the harsh efforts to discharged from time to time her
throat, saying fuel, according to recent findings, the Moors were preparing a general uprising throughout
the kingdom, and that it was necessary to surprise red-handed.

-
We have suspicions - he added - that in this city there is a cache
of conspirators, where seditious messages are received continuously
Aragon and Valencia.

But all this, Mr. Canon, we need to know for sure, as most City Council advocating for them, and abundant
in Spain lords of title, not seeing their abandoned lands, they tend surreptitiously hand.
He said after the Board had entrusted Madrid, without regard to their
age and ailments, this difficult mission, he wanted to share with
a churchman, whose special ministry put him in a better position to
know the qualities or defects of any resident of the city. There, at dawning, the dew would lie heavy.
And wet ground ever holds scent better than does dry. It would be easy to pick up and follow
rabbit trails, through the damp.

Lad made as though to follow them. He ran out of the house and half-way up the drive in pursuit
of their flashing gold-and-white flight. Neither turned a head at sound of his following steps.
Neither slackened pace to include him in the hunt.

Always abnormally sensitive, the big collie noted this aloofness. And he came to an irresolute
halt. For a moment, he stared after the two vanishing runaways; his plumed tail swaying ever
so little, in groundless expectation of an invitingly glance or yelp from Lady. Then, tail
and crest adroop, he turned slowly back toward the house.

From puppyhood, an odd trait of Lad's had caused amusement at the Place. Whenever he was unhappy
or considered himself ill-treated, it was his way to hunt for something wherewith he might
comfort himself. For instance, as a pup, a scolding for some petty misdeed would send him in
search of his cherished flannel doll or his squeaking ball. In later years, the car had taken
the place of these babyhood comforters.

Lad cared more for motoring than for any other amusement. In moments of stress he sometimes
ran to the garage and curled himself up in the tonneau; as though in hope someone might take
pity on his unhappiness and give him a drive. And, usually, somebody did.

Now, turning back, rebuffed, from the forest gallop, he caught sight of the car. Not in the
garage, either; but at the front door; where its presence could mean nothing except an immediate
ride.

With one high spring, Lad had cleared the ground and was over the closed tonneau door and amid
a ruck of luggage and rugs. The rear seat was filled by a steamer-trunk, strapped tightly in
place there. And the bottom of the car was annoyingly crowded by bumpy bags and other gear.

Still, by the simple and ancestral process of turning himself around several times, Lad was
able to clear enough space on the floor to permit of his lying down; albeit in a very compact
bunch.

He settled himself into place on the floor with a satisfied jounce which loosened a car-rug
draped over the trunk. Down slithered the rug; and fell athwart the dog's shaggy back and one
of the bags. It was not heavy enough to annoy Lad or hurt his feelings. And its draped folds
served as the top of a sort of cave for him. On the whole, Lad rather enjoyed the rug's descent.
It made his narrow resting-place snugger and warmer on this chilly early morning. Patiently,
Lad lay there; waiting for the car to start.

He did not have long to wait. In another minute or two, the Mistress and the Master came out
from breakfast; and got into the front seat. Then the car was breasting the winding slope of
the drive, in first speed; the faint jar of the engine sending undulations over the mahogany-and-white
coat of the stowaway dog. And, in a minute more, they were out on the smooth highway, headed
for the distant Catskills.

Now, Lad had not the remotest notion he was a stowaway. On the few times when it had not been
convenient to take him on drives, the Master had always bidden him stay at home. And when,
at such times, the dog chanced already to be its the car, he had been ordered back to earth.
There, was no way for Lad to know, this morning, that neither of the car's other occupants
had seen him as he lay curled up on the floor, three-quarters hidden under the fallen rug.
The luggage had been arranged in the tonneau, before breakfast. And nobody had given a second
glance at it since then.

The sun was rising over a new-made world, alive with summer glory and thrilling with bird-songs.
The air, later in the day, would be warm. But, at sunrise, it was sharp and bracing. The mystic
wonder and the hush of dawn were still brooding over the earth. The hard white road stretched
out, like a winding river, between banks of dew-gleaming verdure. The mountain-tops were glowing
with the touch of the sun. In the deeper valleys floated a shimmering dusk.

The car sped swiftly along the empty highway; slowing down only as it spun through half-awakened
villages; or checked its pace to allow a sleepy boy to drive a straggling bunch of cows across
the road to pasturage.

For an hour or more, Lad lay cuddled under the rug in contented laziness. Then the recumbent
posture tired him; and he sat up. As a rule, one or the other of his deities was wont to turn
around, at intervals, and speak to him or pet him. Today, neither of them paid him the slightest
attention. Still, the ride was a joy. And the surrounding country was new and interesting.
So Lad had a good time, in spite of human neglect. After another hour or so, he curled up again,
among the bags, and fell to drowsing.

A six-hour run, over good roads, brought the car to Kingston, at the gateway to the Catskills.
Here, at a hotel entrance, the machine came to a standstill. The Master got out, and turned
to help the Mistress to alight. It was the place they had decided on for luncheon. Another
three hours, at most, would carry them to their destination.

A negro boy, loafing aimlessly at the street corner, had begun to whistle industriously to
himself as the car slowed down. And he had wakened into active motion. Apparently, he remembered
all at once an important mission on the other side of the street. For he set off at a swinging
pace.

His course took him so near the back of the car that he had to turn out, a step or so, to avoid
collision with it. He accompanied this turning-out maneuver by another which was less ostentatious,
but more purposeful. Timing his steps, so as to pass by the rear of the car just as the Master
was busy helping his wife to descend, the youth thrust an arm over the side of the tonneau,
with the speed of a striking snake. His hand closed on the handle of a traveling bag, among
the heap of luggage. Never slackening his pace, the negro gave a fierce yank at his plunder,
to hoist it over the closed door.

In that tourist-ridden city, bag-stealing offered much profit. In the rare chance of detection
when he was at work, the boy had only to plead over-zeal in trying to earn an honest dime by
helping lift the luggage to the sidewalk.

It was a pretty bit of theft; and it betokened long and careful practice. Thus,--from the thief's
standpoint,--it was almost a pity the brilliant effort was wasted. For wasted it was.

This young negro prided himself on his powers of speed and of silence, in plying his trade.
And, today, though he proceeded to excel in the first of these qualities, he disgraced himself
most woefully as regarded the second.

For he jerked his hand out of the tonneau far faster than he had thrust it in. As he did so,
he woke the echoes with the most blood-curdling screech his leathern lungs could compass.

As his dusky fingers had closed on the bag, something viselike and relentless had fastened
upon those same expert fingers; breaking two of them, and rending the flesh of the lower hand.

Lad, in rising to his feet, after his pleasant nap, at the slowing of the car, had been aware
of that predatory hand; as it groped for the bag. Now, from puppyhood, Lad had been taught
to regard everything in the car as under his own careful guardianship. Hence, he lunged forward
and sank his terrible white teeth deep into the groping fingers.

By main force the youth tore free. With a second screech, he reeled back from the unseen peril
which had assailed him. But Lad would not have it so.

There was a harsh-breathed growl, from down in the tonneau; and, on the instant, a tawny giant
shape came catapulting over the top of the shut door and hurled itself upon the staggering negro.

The Master, turning at sound of the yell, was just in time to see the attack. The collie,--supposedly
ninety miles away, and peacefully guarding the Place,--was hurtling through the air and crashing
against the chest of a gray-faced and pop-eyed young negro. To earth went the two; in a cloud
of dust; a second before the Master's sharp call brought Lad reluctantly away from his prey,
and just as a policeman and a score of idlers came running up.

The thief did not wait to explain. No sooner did he see the Master catch the infuriated dog
by the ruff than he scrambled to his feet; ducked under the policeman's arm and set off, around
a corner, in something better than record time. Somehow, the encounter had deprived him of
the nerve and the pluck to stand his ground and to explain that he had merely been trying to
help with the luggage. His only desire, just then, was to put as many thousand miles as possible
between himself and the tawny demon that had assaulted him.

"Laddie!" gasped the Mistress, unbelieving, as the policeman and most of the little crowd set
off after the fugitive. "LADDIE! What in the world--?"

"He--he must have been in the car, all the time," gabbled the Master, brilliantly. "He must
have jumped in, while we were at breakfast. See, he's cleared a space for himself between two
of the bags. He's been there, all the time, and we never--"

"If he hadn't been there," suggested the Mistress, "we'd be looking now for one or two pieces
of luggage that had disappeared. When the Grays went through here, one of their suitcases was--"

"But what in blazes are we going to do with him?" broke in the Master, worriedly. "We can't
take him all the way home. And I won't trust to sending him by express. He might get backed
onto a siding and be kept there for days, without food or water. Besides, they won't let a
dog go by express unless he's in a crate. What are we to do?"

"Why," said the Mistress, stooping to stroke the silken head that rested against her knee,
"Why, Laddie seems to have settled that for us, by coming along. He's surely paid his way.
We'll have to take him the rest of the trip. The Harmons will be glad to see him, I'm sure.
Everybody's always glad to see Laddie, wherever we go. Let's take him. It's the only thing
to do. We can explain to them how it happened."

And so, after more discussion, it was settled. Even as most things had a way of being settled
when the Mistress proposed them.

Three hours later, the car stopped before the entrance of a roomily beautiful house in a roomily
beautiful residence park, in the upper Catskills.

The welcoming smiles on the faces of host and hostess suffered sudden eclipse; as a huge mahogany-and-white
collie stepped majestically from the car at the heels of the two guests.

"This is Lad," introduced the Mistress. "I hope you don't mind our bringing him. I can promise
he won't be a bit of trouble to anybody. We didn't mean to bring him. It just happened. This
was the way:--"

While she was recounting the adventure to Mrs. Harmon, their host drew the Master to one side.

"Say, old man," began Harmon, with visible discomfort, "please don't misunderstand me or anything.
But I'm a little bothered about just what to do. This is the idea: There was a mad dog scare
here in Daylight Park, last month, when a Pom puppy snapped at some kids that were teasing
it. Then, a day or so later, a Persian cat had fits and chased old Mrs. Cratchitt across a
lawn and gave her a spell of palpitation of the heart. And the next day an Angora goat that
the Varian children had as a pet got loose and chewed up several hundred dollars' worth of
lingerie off a line. Then the Clives' spaniel took to barking under Rutherford Garretse's study
window. And--"

"You needn't be afraid of Lad's doing any of those fool things," bragged the Master. "He behaves
as well as any human. Better than most of them. He--"

"That isn't the point," said his host, with growing uneasiness. "You see, Daylight Park is
run as a club. Home government and all that sort of thing. Well, these livestock fracases raised
such a row that the club's Board of Governors has passed an ordinance, forbidding the keeping
of any pet animals in the whole park. Nothing bigger than a canary bird can be harbored here.
It's a hard-and-fast rule. It seemed the only way to save our whole summer colony from disruption.
You know a livestock squabble can cause more ructions in a small community than--"

"I see," mused the Master, staring glumly after Lad who was just vanishing into the house in
the wake of the Mistress and the unhappy Mrs. Harmon. "I see. H'm!"

He pondered for an instant, while his host shifted from foot to foot and looked apologetic.
Then the Master spoke again.

"The only way out, that I see," he hazarded, "is for me to drive back home with Lad; and leave
him there and come on here, tomorrow. I can--"

"Nothing of the sort!" protested Harmon, "There's an easier way than that. Wittsville is only
a mile or so from the Park gates. They've got a fine boarding kennel there. Several of the
Park's dogs were exiled to it, when our ordinance went into effect. Jump into the car, and
we'll take your collie there in ten minutes. He'll be well treated. And you and your wife can
go to see him, every day you're here. Come along. I--I hate to seem inhospitable about this
thing. But you see for yourself how it is. We--"

"Certainly," assented the Master. "I'll go in and get him and explain to my wife. Don't let
it make you feel uncomfortable. We both understand."

Which accounts for the fact that Lad, within the next half hour, was preparing to spend his
first night away from home and from the two people who were his gods. He was not at all happy.
It had been an interesting day. But its conclusion did not please Laddie, in any manner.

And, when things did not please Lad, he had a very determined fashion of trying to avoid them;--unless
perchance the Mistress or the Master had decreed otherwise.

The Master had brought him to this obnoxious strange place. But he had not bidden Lad stay
there. And the collie merely waited his chance to get out. At ten o'clock, one of the kennelmen
made the night rounds. He swung open the door of the little stall in which Lad had been locked
for the night. At least, he swung the door halfway open. Lad swung it the rest of the way.

With a plunge, the collie charged out through the opening portal, ducked between the kennelman's
legs, reached the open gate of the enclosure in two more springs; and vanished down the road
into the darkness.

As soon as he felt the highway under his feet, Lad's nose drooped earthward; and he sniffed
with all his might.  Instantly, he caught the scent he was seeking;--a scent as  familiar to
him as that of his own piano cave; the scent of the Place's car-tires.

It had taken Harmon and the Master the best part of ten minutes to drive through the park and
to the boarding kennels. It took Lad less than half that time to reach the veranda of the Harmon
house. Circling the house and finding all doors shut, he lay down on the mat; and settled himself
to sleep there in what comfort he might, until the Mistress and the Master should come down
in the morning and find him.

But the Harmons were late risers. And the sun had been up for some hours before any of the
household were astir.

If Lad had been the professionally Faithful Hound, of storybooks, he would doubtless have waited
on the mat until someone should come to let him in. But, after lying there until broad daylight,
he was moved to explore this new section of the world. The more so, since house after house
within range of his short vision showed signs of life and activity.

Several people passed and repassed along the private roadway in front of the Harmons' door;
and nearly all of these paused to peer at Lad, in what seemed to the collie a most flattering
show of interest.

At last, the dog got to his feet, stretched himself fore-and-aft, in true collie fashion; and
trotted down the paved walk to the road. There for a moment, he stood hesitant. As he stood,
he was surveying the scene;--not only with his eyes, but with those far stronger sense organs,
his ears and his nostrils. His ears told him nothing of interest. His nose told him much. Indeed,
before he had fairly reached the road, these nostrils had telegraphed to his brain an odor
that not only was highly interesting, but totally new to him. Lad's experience with scents
was far-reaching. But this smell lay totally outside all his knowledge or memory.

It was a rank and queer smell;--not strong enough, out there in the open, to register in a
human-brain; but almost stingingly acute to the highly sensitized dog. It was an alluring scent;
the sort of odor that roused all his curiosity and seemed to call for prompt investigation.

Nose to ground, Lad set off to trace the smell to its source. Strong as it was, it grew stronger
and fresher at every step. Even a mongrel puppy could have followed it. Oblivious to all else,
Lad broke into a canter; nose still close to earth; pleasurably excited and keenly inquisitive.

He ran along the private road for perhaps a hundred yards. Then, he wheeled in at another paved
walk and ran up a low flight of veranda steps. The front door of a house stood invitingly open
to the cool air of the morning. In through the doorway went Lad; unheeding the gobbling call
of a maid-servant who was sweeping the far end of the veranda.

Lad did not know he was committing trespass. To him an open door had always meant permission
to enter. And the enticingly rank scent was tenfold stronger indoors than out. Across a hallway
he trotted, still sniffing; and up a flight of stairs leading to the second story of the house.

At the stairhead, a room door stood wide. And into this room led the odor. Lad went in. He
was in a large and sunlit room; but in the most disorderly room he had ever set eyes on. The
room needed airing, too. For all its four windows were closed, except one which was open for
perhaps six inches from the top.

Lad circled the room, twice; from door to windows, and thence to center table and around the
walls; pausing at one window sill and again at the threshold; picking his way daintily over
heaps of litter on the floor. Yes, the room was full of the scent. But, whence the scent emanated,
Lad could not, for the life of him, tell. The room gave him no clew. And, after a few minutes
of futile investigation, he turned to depart.

At the stairhead, he came upon the same servant he had seen sweeping the veranda. She cried:
"Shoo!" at him and brandished her broom. Lad, in offended dignity, stalked past her and out
of the house.

His quest having proven vain, he betook himself to the Harmons', arriving there as the Mistress
and the Master emerged upon the veranda in company with their hosts. In wild delight, Lad scampered
up to the Mistress; his whole stately body wriggling in eager welcome, his tiny white forepaws
patting at her feet, his muzzle thrusting itself into her cupped hand.

"Why, Lad!" she cried. "Laddie! We were so worried about you. They just phoned from the kennels
that you had gotten away. I might have known you'd find your way to us. We--"

She got no further. Up the walk, from the road, came running an apoplectically red and puffing
man of late middle age;--a man whose face bore traces of lather; and who was swathed in a purple
bathrobe. Flapping slippers ill-covered his sockless feet.

The Master recognized the fast-advancing newcomer. He recognized him from many pictures in
newspapers and magazines.

This was Rutherford Garretse, world-famed author and collector; the literary lion and chief
celebrity of the summer colony at Daylight Park. But what eccentricity of genius could account
for his costume and for this bellicose method of bearing down upon a neighbor's home, was more
than the Master could guess.

Nor did the visitor's first words clear up the mystery. Halting at the foot of the steps, Rutherford
Garretse gesticulated in dumb anguish, while he fought for breath and for coherent speech.
Then, disregarding Harmon's wondering greeting, the celebrity burst into choking staccato speech.

"That dog!" he croaked. "That--that--DOG! The maid saw him go into the house. Saw him go up
to my study. She was afraid to follow, at first. But in a few minutes she did. She saw him
coming out of my study! COME!!! I demand it. All of you. COME!"

Without another word, he wheeled and made off down the road, pausing only to beckon imperiously.
Marveling, the group on the veranda followed. Deaf to their questions, he led the way. Lad
fell into line behind the perplexed Mistress.

Down the road to the next house, stalked Rutherford Garretse. At the doorway, he repeated his
dramatic gesture and commanded:

"COME!"

Up the broad stairs he stamped. Behind him trailed the dumfounded procession; Laddie still
pattering happily along with the Mistress. At the open door of a large room at the stairhead,
the author stood aside and pointed in silent despair through the doorway.

"What's up?" queried Harmon, for perhaps the tenth time. "Is anything--?"

His question ended in a grunt. And, like the others, he stared aghast on the scene before him.

The room, very evidently, was a study. But much of its floor, just now, was heaped, ankle high,
with hundreds of pages of torn and crumpled paper.

The desk-top and a Sheraton cabinet and table were bare of all contents. On the floor reposed
countless shattered articles of glass and porcelain; jumbled together with blotters an pastepot
and shears and ink-stand and other utensils. Ink had been poured in grotesque pattern on rugs
and parquetry and window curtains.

In one corner lay a typewriter, its keys twisted and its carriage broken. Books--some of them
in rare bindings,--lay gutted and ink-smeared, from one end of the place to the other.

Through the daze of general horror boomed the tremblingly majestic voice of Rutherford Garretse.

"I wanted you to see!" he declaimed. "I ordered everything left as it was. That mess of papers
all over the floor is what remains of the first draft of my book. The book I have been at work
on for six months! I--"

"And it was the dog, there!" sputtered the maid-servant; emotion riding over discipline. "I
c'n swear the room was neat and all dusted. Not a blessed thing out of place; and all the paper
where Mr. Garretse had stacked 'em in his portfolio, yonder. I dusted this study and then the
dining room. And then I went out to sweep the veranda; like I always do, before breakfast.
And maybe ten minutes later I see this brute trot out of Mr. Harmon's place, and along the
road, and come, asnuffing up the steps and into the house. And when I followed him upstairs
and scatted him out, I saw the room looking like it is, now; and I yells to Mr. Garretse, and
he's shaving, and--"

"That will do, Esther!" snapped the author. "And, now, sir--"

"But, Mr. Garretse," put in the Mistress, "Lad never did such a thing as this, in all his life!
He's been brought up in the house. Even as a puppy, he was--"

"The evidence shows otherwise," interrupted Garretse, with a visible struggle at self-control.
"No human, unless he were a maniac, would have done such a wantonly destructive thing. No other
animal has been here. The dog was seen entering and leaving this room. And my work of six months
is not only destroyed by him, but many of the very best pieces in my glass-and-porcelain cabinet."

"But--"

"I consented to stay on at Daylight Park, only on the solemn assurance of the Governors that
no animal should be allowed again within the Park precincts. I detest animals. Particularly
dogs. And now I see my dislike is not mere prejudice. May I ask what the owners and--and the
harborer--of the cur mean to do about this outrage? Notice, please, that I am speaking with
studied moderation, in asking this vital question. I--"

"It is my fault,--or rather, it is a mistake,--that Lad is in the Park," spoke up the Master.
"Mr. Harmon is wholly innocent in the matter. I can testify to that. If there is any fine or
other penalty in connection with my dog's being here, I'm ready to settle for it. But if you
expect me to believe that Laddie did all this weird damage to your manuscript and your collection
and your room,--why, that's absurd! Utterly absurd! Lad, never in his life,--"

"The courts will think otherwise!" blazed Garretse, losing a fraction of his hard-held selfmastery.
"And the case shall go through every court in the land, since you persist in this idiotic denial
of a proven fact. I warn you, I shall--Look there!" he broke off, furiously, leveling a shakily
vehement forefinger at Lad. "Watch him! He's prowling around, even now, in search of more things
to injure. He--"

The author finished his sentence by catching up a heavy metal paperweight and drawing it back
as if for a throw. His muscles flexed. The Mistress moved, as by accident, between the raging
man and the dog.

The Master, for the moment, lacked presence of mind to do even that much for his canine chum's
safety. He was too much taken up in glaring unbelievingly at Lad.

The sedate collie, after following the bevy of excited humans upstairs, had stood gravely,
just inside the threshold; looking with keen interest from one to the other of the gesticulating
and noisy group. Then, as a sharp whiff of that same baffling scent assailed his nose, he began
a new tour of the room.

The odor was fresher than before. And Lad's curiosity was roused to the full. He sniffed to
right and left, exploring the floor rubbish with inquiring muzzle, and circling the despoiled
writing desk.

It was then that Garretse called attention to him. And it was then that Lad's nose suddenly
pointed skyward. In another moment, he had bounded eagerly toward one of the windows,--the
window that was slightly open from the top.

From that direction, the scent now came; and it was more potent than at any earlier time in
his quest.

Even as the astonished eyes of the group followed Lad window-ward, those same eyes were attracted
by a partial darkening of the open space at the window's top.

Into the room, through the narrow aperture wiggled a hairy form, moving with eel-like speed.

Thence, it leaped to the floor. For the fraction of a second, the intruder crouched there;
peering about, to determine into what company his jump had landed him.

He was a gray monkey, small, infinitely aged and withered of aspect. His paws and forearms
were black with half-dry ink. Here and there, all over his fuzzy gray body, ink-blobs were
spattered. In one skinny paw he still clutched the splintered fragment of a Satsuma vase.

By the time the gaping humans could get a single good look at the monkey, Lad was at him. Here
at last was the solution of that mysterious scent, so new to the collie.

Lad galloped toward the wizened and malodorous gray bunch; more intent on investigation than
on attack. The monkey did not wait for him. With an incredibly agile leap, he was on the spattered
window curtains and swarming up to the rod at the top. There he squatted, well out of reach;
grimacing horribly and chattering in simian wrath.

"It's--it's a devil!" stammered Rutherford Garretse; his nearsighted eyes squinting as he sought
to take in the motley details of the creature's appearance. "I--"

"It's Mrs. McMurdle's pest of a monkey, sirs" blithered the maid. "Asking your pardon. The
one she made such a fuss about sending away, last month, when all beastees was barred from
the Park. It must 'a' strayed back from where she sent it to, the crafty little nuisance! It's--"

"Incidentally," said the Master, "it is the creature that wrecked your room. See the ink on
it. And that bit of porcelain it's brandishing at us looks like a match for some of these smashed
bits on the floor. It got in here, I suppose, through that window, earlier,--and--"

"No," corrected the Mistress, wiser at deduction. "Through the doorway, downstairs. From somewhere
outside. Probably while the maid was dusting the dining-room. It came in here and began destroying
things; as monkeys love to. And Laddie struck its trail and followed it up here. It heard Lad
coming and it got out through the window. Then, just now, something outside scared it; and
it climbed back in again. I wonder if--"

As she talked, the Mistress had moved toward the nearest window.

"See?" she finished, in triumph, as she pointed out and down.

On the patch of back lawn, below, stood a very much flustered old lady, her worried gaze upraised
to the study. In one hand she carried a leash, in the other a half-peeled banana.

"It's Mrs. McMurdle!" exclaimed Harmon. "The maid was right. She must have disobeyed the ordinance
and had the miserable monkey hidden in her house all the time. It must have gotten out, this
morning; and she hunted around till she saw it perched on the top of the window cornice. I
suppose it dived back in here, at sight of her. She--"

"Come on, Laddie!" whispered the Mistress, under cover of a new outbreak of multiple talk.
"YOU'RE acquitted, anyhow. And the rest of the scene is really no business of ours. The sooner
we get you to the boarding kennels again, the less chance there is of trouble. And Master and
I will come to see you there, every single day, till we go back home."

A week later, the car turned in again at the gates of the Place. This time, Lad rode in state
atop the flat trunk on the rear seat. As the car halted at the veranda, he sprang to earth
without waiting for the tonneau door to be opened.

For, dashing toward him from the direction of the lake, Lady hove in sight. Behind her, and
trotting more leisurely, came Wolf. At sight and scent of her returned mate, Lady fairly squealed
with delight. She whirled up to Lad, frantically licking his face and spinning about him with
little staccato yelps of joy.

Lad was deliriously happy. Not only was he at home again; but Lady was welcoming him with an
effusion that she had not shown him for many a sorrowful month. He could not understand it.
Nor did he try to. He was content to accept the miracle; and to rejoice in it with all his
great honest heart.

Knowing nothing of feminine psychology, he could not realize that a week of Puppy Wolf's sole
and undiluted companionship had bored Lady horribly and had begun to get on her nerves;--nor
that she had learned to miss and yearn for the big, wise, ever-gentle mate whom she had so
long neglected.

It was enough for Lad to know that he was no longer a neglected outsider, in the Place's canine
family; but that his worshiped mate was wild with joy to see him again.

"Look!" said the Master. "The old chap has forgiven her for every bit of her rottenness to
him. He's insanely happy, just because she chooses to make much of him, once more."

"Yes," assented the Mistress, cryptically "Sometimes dogs are pitifully--human!"

CHAPTER VI. The Tracker

The child's parents were going to Europe for three months, that winter. The child himself was
getting over a nervous ailment. The doctors had advised he be kept out of school for a term;
and be sent to the country.

His mother was afraid the constant travel from place to place, in Europe, might be too much
for him. So she asked leave of the Mistress and the Master,--one of whom was her distant relative,--for
the convalescent to stay at the Place during his parents' absence.

That was how it all started.

The youngster was eleven years old; lank and gangling, and blest with a fretful voice and with
far less discipline and manners than a three-month collie pup. His name was Cyril. Briefly,
he was a pest,--an unspeakable pest.

For the first day or two at the Place, the newness of his surroundings kept Cyril more or less
in bounds. Then, as homesickness and novelty alike wore off, his adventurous soul expanded.

He was very much at home; far more so than were his hosts, and infinitely more pleased than
they with the situation in general. He had an infinite genius for getting into trouble. Not
in the delightfully normal fashion of the average growing boy; but in furtively crafty ways
that did not belong to healthy childhood.

Day by day, Cyril impressed his odd personality more and more on everything around him. The
atmosphere of sweet peace which had brooded, like a blessing, over the whole Place, was dispersed.

The cook,--a marvel of culinary skill and of long service, gave tearful warning, and departed.
This when she found the insides of all her cooking utensils neatly soaped; and the sheaf of
home-letters in her work-box replaced by cigar-coupons.

One of the workmen threw over his job with noisy blasphemy; when his room above the stables
was invaded by stealth and a comic-paper picture of a goat's head substituted for his dead
mother's photograph in the well-polished little bronze frame on his bureau.

And so on, all along the line.

The worst and most continuous sufferer from Cyril's loathed presence on the Place was the massive
collie, Lad.

The child learned, on the first day of his visit, that it would be well-nigh as safe to play
with a handful of dynamite as with Lad's gold-and-white mate, Lady. Lady did not care for liberties
from anyone. And she took no pains to mask her snappish first-sight aversion to the lanky Cyril.
Her fiery little son, Wolf, was scarce less formidable than she, when it came to being teased
by an outsider. But gallant old Lad was safe game.

He was safe game for Cyril, because Lad's mighty heart and soul were miles above the possibility
of resenting anything from so pitifully weak and defenseless a creature as this child. He seemed
to realize, at a glance, that Cyril was an invalid and helpless and at a physical disadvantage.
And, as ever toward the feeble, his big nature went out in friendly protection to this gangling
wisp of impishness.

Which was all the good it did him.

In fact, it laid the huge collie open to an endless succession of torment. For the dog's size
and patience seemed to awaken every atom of bullying cruelty in the small visitor's nature.

Cyril, from the hour of his arrival, found acute bliss in making Lad's life a horror. His initial
step was to respond effusively to the collie's welcoming advances; so long as the Mistress
and the Master chanced to be in the room. As they passed out, the Mistress chanced to look back.

She saw Cyril pull a bit of cake from his pocket and, with his left hand, proffer it to Lad.
The tawny dog stepped courteously forward to accept the gift. As his teeth were about to close
daintily on the cake, Cyril whipped it back out of reach; and with his other hand rapped Lad
smartly across the nose.

Had any grown man ventured a humiliating and painful trick of that sort on Lad, the collie
would have been at the tormentor's throat, on the instant. But it was not in the great dog's
nature to attack a child. Shrinking back, in amaze, his abnormally sensitive feelings jarred,
the collie retreated majestically to his beloved "cave" under the music-room piano.

To the Mistress's remonstrance, Cyril denied most earnestly that he had done the thing. Nor
was his vehemently tearful denial shaken by her assertion that she had seen it all.

Lad soon forgave the affront. And he forgave a dozen other and worse mal-treatments which followed.
But, at last, the dog took to shunning the neighborhood of the pest. That availed him nothing;
except to make Cyril seek him out in whatsoever refuge the dog had chosen.

Lad, trotting hungrily to his dinner dish, would find his food thick-strewn with cayenne pepper
or else soaked in reeking gasoline.

Lad, seeking peace and solitude in his piano cave, would discover his rug, there, cleverly
scattered with carpet tacks, points upward.

Lad, starting up from a snooze at the Mistress's call, would be deftly tripped as he started
to bound down the veranda steps, and would risk bruises and fractures by an ugly fall to the
driveway below.

Wherever Lad went, whatever Lad did, there was a cruel trick awaiting him. And, in time, the
dog's dark eyes took on an expression of puzzled unhappiness that went straight to the hearts
of the two humans who loved him.

All his life, Lad had been a privileged character on the Place. Never had he known nor needed
whip or chain. Never had he,--or any of the Place's other dogs,--been wantonly teased by any
human. He had known, and had given, only love and square treatment and stanch friendliness.
He had ruled as benevolent monarch of the Place's Little People; had given loyal service to
his two deities, the Mistress and the Master; and had stood courteously aloof from the rest
of mankind. And he had been very, very happy.

Now, in a breath, all this was changed. Ever at his heels, ever waiting to find some new way
to pester him, was a human too small and too weak to attack;--a human who was forever setting
the collie's high-strung nerves on edge or else actively hurting him. Lad could not understand
it. And as the child gained in health and strength, Lad's lot grew increasingly miserable.

The Mistress and the Master were keenly aware of conditions. And they did their best,--a useless
best,--to mitigate them for the dog. They labored over Cyril, to make him leave Lad alone.
They pointed out to him the mean cowardice of his course of torture. They even threatened to
send him to nearer relatives until his parents' return. All in vain. Faced with the most undeniable
proofs, the child invariably would lie. He denied that he had ever ill-used Lad in any way;
and would weep, in righteous indignation, at the charges. What was to be done?

"I thought it would brighten up the house so, to have a child in it again!" sighed the Mistress
as she and her husband discussed the matter, uselessly, for the fiftieth time, after one of
these scenes. "I looked forward so much to his coming here! But he's--oh, he isn't like any
child I ever heard of before!"

"If I could devote five busy minutes a day to him," grunted the Master, "with an axe-handle
or perhaps a bale-stick--"

"You wouldn't do it!" denied his wife. "You wouldn't harm him; any more than Lad does. That's
the trouble. If Cyril belonged to us, we could punish him. Not with a--a balestick, of course.
But he needs a good wholesome spanking, more than anyone else I can think of. That or some
other kind of punishment that would make an impression on him. But what can we do? He isn't ours--"

"Thank God!" interpolated the Master, piously.

"And we can't punish other people's child," she finished. "I don't know what we CAN do. I wouldn't
mind half so much about the other sneaky things he does; if it wasn't for the way he treats
Laddie. I--"

"Suppose we send Lad to the boarding kennels, at Ridgewood, till the brat is gone?" suggested
the Master. "I hate to do it. And the good old chap will be blue with homesickness there. But
at least he'll get kind treatment. When he comes over to me and looks up into my eyes in that
terribly appealing way, after Cyril has done some rotten thing to him,--well, I feel like a
cur, not to be able to justify his faith that I can make things all right for him. Yes, I think
I'll send him to the boarding kennels. And, if it weren't for leaving you alone to face things
here, I'd be tempted to hire a stall at the kennels for myself, till the pest is gone."

The next day, came a ray of light in the bothered gloom. And the question of the boarding kennels
was dropped. The Mistress received a letter from Cyril's mother. The European trip had been
cut short, for business reasons; and the two travelers expected to land in New York on the
following Friday.

"Who dares say Friday is an unlucky day?" chortled the Master in glee, as his wife reached
this stage of the letter.

"And," the Mistress read on, "we will come out to the Place, on the noon train; and take darling
Cyril away with us. I wish we could stay longer with you; but Henry must be in Chicago on Saturday
night. So we must catch a late afternoon train back to town, and take the night train West.
Now, I--"

"Most letters are a bore," interpolated the Master. "Or else they're a bother. But this one
is a pure rapture. Read it more slowly, won't, you, dear? I want to wallow in every blessed
word of hope it contains. Go ahead. I'm sorry I interrupted. Read on. You'll never have such
another enthusiastic audience."

"And now," the Mistress continued her reading, "I am going to ask both of you not to say a
single word to precious Cyril about our coming home so soon. We want to surprise him. Oh, to
think what his lovely face will be like, when he sees us walking in!"

"And to think what MY lovely face will be like, when I see him walking out!" exulted the Master.
"Laddie, come over here. We've got the gorgeousest news ever! Come over and be glad!"

Lad, at the summons, came trotting out of his cave, and across the room. Like every good dog
who has been much talked to, he was as adept as any dead-beat in reading the varying shades
of the human voice. The voices and faces alike of his two adored deities told him something
wonderful had happened. And, as ever, he rejoiced in their gladness. Lifting his magnificent
head, he broke into a salvo of trumpeting barks; the oddly triumphant form of racket he reserved
for great moments.

"What's Laddie doing?" asked Cyril, from the threshold. "He sounds as if he was going mad or
something."

"He's happy," answered the Mistress.

"Why's he happy?" queried the child.

"Because his Master and I are happy," patiently returned the Mistress.

"Why are YOU happy?" insisted Cyril.

"Because today is Thursday," put in the Master. "And that means tomorrow will be Friday."

"And on Friday," added the Mistress, "there's going to be a beautiful surprise for you, Cyril.
We can't tell you what it is, but--"

"Why can't you tell me?" urged the child. "Aw, go ahead and tell me! I think you might."

The Master had gone over to the nearest window; and was staring out into the gray-black dusk.
Mid-winter gripped the dead world; and the twilight air was deathly chill. The tall naked treetops
stood gaunt and wraithlike against a leaden sky.

To the north, the darkness was deepest. Evil little puffs of gale stirred the powdery snow
into myriads of tiny dancing white devils. It had been a fearful winter, thus far; colder than
for a score of years; so cold that many a wild woodland creature, which usually kept far back
in the mountains, had ventured down nearer to civilization for forage and warmth.

Deer tracks a-plenty had been seen, close up to the gates of the Place. And, two days ago,
in the forest, half a mile away, the Master had come upon the half-human footprints of a young
bear. Starvation stalked abroad, yonder in the white hills. And need for provender had begun
to wax stronger among the folk of the wilderness than their inborn dread of humans.

"There's a big snowstorm coming up," ruminated the Master, as he scanned the grim weather-signs.
"A blizzard, perhaps. I--I hope it won't delay any incoming steamers. I hope at least one of
them will dock on schedule. It--"

He turned back from his musings, aware for the first time that a right sprightly dialogue was
going on. Cyril was demanding for the eighth time:

"WHY won't you tell me? Aw, I think you might! What's going to happen that's so nice, Friday?"

"Wait till Friday and see," laughed the Mistress.

"Shucks!" he snorted. "You might tell me, now. I don't want to wait and get s'prised. I want
to know, NOW. Tell me!"

Under her tolerant smile, the youngster's voice scaled to an impatient whine. He was beginning
to grow red.

"Let it go at that!" ordained the Master. "Don't spoil your own fun, by trying to find out,
beforehand. Be a good sportsman."

"Fun!" snarled Cyril. "What's the fun of secrets? I want to know--"

"It's snowing," observed the Mistress, as a handful of flakes began to drift past the windows,
tossed along on a puff of wind.

"I want to KNOW!" half-wept the child; angry at the change of subject, and noting that the
Mistress was moving toward the next room, with Lad at her heels. "Come back and tell me!"

He stamped after her to bar her way. Lad was between the irate Cyril and the Mistress. In babyish
rage at the dog's placid presence in his path, he drew back one ungainly foot and kicked the
astonished collie in the ribs.

At the outrage, Lad spun about, a growl in his throat. But he forbore to bite or even to show
his teeth. The growl had been of indignant protest at such unheard-of treatment; not a menace.
Then the dog stalked haughtily to his cave, and lay down there.

But the human witnesses to the scene were less forbearing;--being only humans. The Mistress
cried out, in sharp protest at the little brute's action. And the Master leaned forward, swinging
Cyril clear of the ground. Holding the child firmly, but with no roughness, the Master steadied
his own voice as best he could; and said:--

"This time you've not even bothered to wait till our backs were turned. So don't waste breath
by crying and saying you didn't do it. You're not my child; so I have no right to punish you.
And I'm not going to. But I want you to know you've just kicked something that's worth fifty
of you."

"You let me down!" Cyril snarled.

"Lad is too white and clean and square to hurt anything that can't hit back," continued the
Master. "And you are not. That's the difference between you. One of the several million differences,--all
of them in Lad's favor. When a child begins life by being cruel to dumb animals, it's a pretty
bad sign for the way he's due to treat his fellow-humans in later years,--if ever any of them
are at his mercy. For your own sake, learn to behave at least as decently as a dog. If--"

"You let me down, you big bully!" squalled Cyril, bellowing with impotent fury. "You let me
down! I--"

"Certainly," assented the Master, lowering him to the floor. "I didn't hurt you. I only held
you so you couldn't run out of the room, before I'd finished speaking; as you did, the time
I caught you putting red pepper on Lad's food. He--"

"You wouldn't dare touch me, if my folks were here, you big bully!" screeched the child, in
a veritable mania of rage; jumping up and down and actually foaming at the mouth. "But I'll
tell 'em on you! See if I don't! I'll tell 'em how you slung me around and said I was worsen
a dirty dog like Lad. And Daddy'll lick you for it. See if he don't! He--"

The Master could not choke back a laugh; though the poor Mistress looked horribly distressed
at the maniac outburst, and strove soothingly to check it. She, like the Master, remembered
now that Cyril's doting mother had spoken of the child's occasional fits of red wrath. But
this was the first glimpse either of them had had of these. Hitherto, craft had served Cyril's
turn better than fury.

At sound of the Master's unintentional laugh the unfortunate child went quite beside himself
in his transport of rage.

"I won't stay in your nasty old house!" he shrieked. "I'm going to the very first house I can
find. And I'm going to tell 'em how you hammered a little feller that hasn't any folks here
to stick up for him. And I'll get 'em to take me in and send a tel'gram to Daddy and Mother
to come save me. I--"

To the astonishment of both his hearers, Cyril broke off chokingly in his yelled tirade; caught
up a bibelot from the table, hurled it with all his puny force at Lad, the innocent cause of
the fracas; and then rushed from the room and from the house.

The Mistress stared after him, dumfounded; his howls and the jarring slam of the house door
echoing direfully in her ears. It was the Master who ended the instant's hush of amaze.

"Whenever I've heard a grown man say he wished he was a boy again," he mused, "I always set
him down for a liar. But, for once in my life, I honestly wish I was a boy, once more. A boy
one day younger and one inch shorter and one pound lighter than Cyril. I'd follow him out of
doors, yonder, and give him the thrashing of his sweet young life. I'd--"

"Oh, do call him back!" begged the Mistress. "He'll catch his death of cold, and--"

"Why will he?" challenged the Master, without stirring. "For all his noble rage, I noticed
he took thought to grab up his cap and his overcoat from the hall, as he wafted himself away.
And he still had his arctics on, from this afternoon. He won't--"

"But suppose he should really go over to one of the neighbors," urged the Mistress, "and tell
such an awful story as he threatened to? Or suppose--"

"Not a chance!" the Master reassured her. "Now that the summer people are away, there isn't
an occupied house within half a mile of here. And he's not going to trudge a half-mile through
the snow, in this bitter cold, for the joy of telling lies. No, he's down at the stables or
else he's sneaked in through the kitchen; the way he did that other time when he made a grandstand
exit after I'd ventured to lecture him on his general rottenness. He turned his face. The city called in a voice of tedium, of perfidy, and the beast wall,
all red at dawn, made him think of the red hooded executioner.

Back was to die, to die covered in sin, lose your soul for eternity.

When you reach the first crossroad stopped. I did not think I did not want to think anymore
in the daughter of Don Alonso, whom he believed he had killed the night before. But the conscience
was had been repeating that if you came to discover the body of San
Vicente Gonzalo justice fall in fixed upon Peter, believing the killer
of his brother and Beatrice.

An innocent would be condemned in his place.

Shaken in both directions by stormy brooding, decided to follow the advice of the sky. Paternoster
and prayed a Hail Mary, he wheeled his horse to put with the head
the north, and dropping the reins, piccolo hard.

The horse reared, but after a while miraculously walked away from
the lair, at full gallop Cebreros way.

- God wills it! - Ramiro thought
.-- An angel spurs!

He quickly penetrate into the roughness of the mountains. Lost at times vague gesture the shepherds
who used to point out a goat path on the edge of the abyss, and across, under a wind desperate, cruel
moors, where he was struck more than once, the desire lying on your
breasts on the sand and let it die, finally reached Cebreros, a rainy
day the time for siesta.

He stopped at an inn in the suburbs, and then at night, he lay down
on a blanket, between skins of wine.

The voices of some men who were in the same block would not let him
sleep.

An elderly priest and a farmer became the first questions:

- And where to walk your worship?, Can I ask?

- Tasty. I Court Road, then move on to Toledo.

- Is that place your worship?

- Soy Tornadizos, but take me, after all the years, the desire to witness an auto faith. In addition,
the chaplain of St. Clare is something relative of mine, and I visitalle.

- Well, well ... I'm from here same; means the naval. I was born there and lived the years I
have, which are for this Christmas time sixty-three senses.

My father, God there was gentleman of blood, but had to take the
office of mop do not die misery to the many children he had.

Fine for a bad call ...

The priest took advantage of that perplexity to recover the word, and he began to refer to,
few days before, had passed its two Moorish town of Avila, in a car
driven Green, the Inquisition of Toledo.

In one famous witch, the devil in addition Diola beautiful face.

Tell them one of the guards said, point by point, the crime of both women.

Ramiro then heard the unadulterated story of the conspiracy he discovered.

- Furthermore, a mule boy traveling with these people - said the cleric - he assured me that the beautiful
Moorish, through an evil potion had been enchanted by one of the
young men more bizarre and very pious Christian city, making it soon
deny the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ and enter into the plot.

-
Good God and the Blessed Virgin! - Said the farmer, crossing herself
with terror.

Ramiro sat on blankets. That great sin, the great blemish of his life had took shape, had passed
the walls of Avila, and now traveling sales and roads.

The steam from the wine-skins, the stench coming from the stable and
continuous lanceteo of Tabernil fleas aggravated his state of anxiety,
figurándosele a living parable of degradation.

He felt humbled and contrite before God, but his pride is exalted with aggressive arrogance in
thinking about men.

After three days, and Medrano did not arrive, Ramiro decided to continue without waiting. Was
a splendid morning in early May. Had pulled himself to his porch cuartago Inn, and was about
to set foot in the stirrup, when his eyes, somewhat obscured by the
reflection of the whitewashed walls, they saw, on a pony, a little
page that seemed donoso beckon from afar.

Finally came this little page with him, and dismounting from the horse, crouched and weeping,
and again demandole hand to kiss.

Was Casilda, groom's clothes, but his eyelashes, his mane and all
his features were so covered with dust, Ramiro soon recognized.

He said that the day of departure, at about two o'clock in the afternoon, Diego Franco, the
ringer, had returned to the Church a gash on his face, and interrogated
by Mr. Lamb did not want to answer a word.

He said then that his father had been taken to jail until the investigation of the truth of
that knife.

- Send your worship say they continue their journey, and remove the
beards, and walking for long, long, concealing his name.

Then, lowering his eyelids and under the white powder blush that veiled her face, said she came to
be at your service and willingness to follow as a page, wherever he went.

- No - Ramiro replied coldly, - most needed your father do that to me.

Turn from hurry and tell me I'm very secretly to Toledo, where I esperalle.

Seeing that the priest and the farmer came out at that time of the
inn, took off quickly wearing the ring on his right hand and gave
them to the girl, saying:

- Take this gem if it can help you in something.

And,

with a brief greeting, he mounted the steed and spurs stung.

Crossing flat, barren and brown, interspersed with an occasional ridge
of similar appearance clipped to the back of mules, avoiding people,
and sleeping in the open where they took the night, came one morning
in view of the famous city councils and swords, without major incident
on the road, which surprised robbers, whose leader, the famous Ridley
Avendaño, admiring his courage, made him return the jewels and money
and offered welcome in his band as the second.

While the cathedral bell clappers struck twelve noon, his horse crossed, step by step, the
Alcantara bridge sunny.

I was in Toledo.

PART THREE

I

Ramiro spent the first two weeks wandering at random through the streets
and squares of Toledo, no company, not a page, without love, alone
in the crowd.

The curious stranger sacábale bed earlier than usual, and almost all morning, crossing the street
and taking Zocodover Firearms, found himself on the bridge of San Martín, over vacant and peaceful
that befitted a man of his race.

Thus, coming and going along the road, or lying idly on the parapet, leaving run one or two
hours, no more occupation than to see arrive in the delightful rural supply dawn. His eyes were
rejoiced to observe the confusion of costumes versicolor of rough brick facades and tanned,
the overflowing baskets, and dusty herd of donkeys, oxen, herds. Was the collection everyday
of the Vega and the meadows of the contours, coming to town by that vertiginous bridge the morning
sun gilt. Serna was all, all the nava, sizla all its rustic smells, their bleating, his ringing,
her singing. Sometimes for a few pennies, the young man took the
baskets avilés some grapes or Ajofrín Mozamboroz, cooled by the dew.

Fed eral painful happen again under the successive arches of the old fortified turret that garnished
the header. His legs sank in a sudden wave of goats or sheep; here a donkey he spoiled the boot
to the hoof, there a cowgirl him away from the sacred a manotón. There was stunned who was not
under the hollow of the door, where farmhands were happy to blow
their screams and pastoral cowbells sounded like bells.

Later, after admiring the artifice of Giovanni tracing the river water to Alcazar, or go one
by one, the windows of the swords, found himself on the visit churches, and, usually, an hour
before the call to prayer, just by getting the finger mustache, entered the Zocodover and stood
to walk around the plaza or below the arches, until evening. The half-grown beard, the pale
face, boots way, the avalanche hat, broadsword and worn long and dusty clothes, dábanle all the
trace of a soldier in Flanders, just out of hospital in Santa Cruz.

Ignored this existence, without vanity or passion, fuel dipping in a similar state to the placidity
of convalescence. Almost forgotten the tragedy that left her back, given their freedom for
granted, and without another twister that he was renewing his conscience
the memory of his love to the Moor, squandering the last pieces of
jewelry and sold her embarrassing hack, to gather in this way you
avoid some doubloons for some time the dastardly emergency money.

It was no longer his hapless love or the death of the traitor Beatrice crying in his chest. All this
had been a tragic bent sheet forever, an accident of fate let not against you on account .--
The wife or a bride who mocks us - there said to himself - is truck, at first, our worst enemy,
once discovered it is not but to kill him without mercy, then forget
it, forget it all, the heart to sweep your name, bury his memory like
a rag of pestiferous.

That is the old law of honor. Instead, the brief account of the clergy, in the sale of Cebreros
had renewed in spirit musings and remorse he felt forever abolished.

So unexpected, distant scenes of his cohabitation with Aixa was revived in his memory with excruciating
resiliency, and came to think that other sin of his life totaling all sin like this, and that
his soul was lost for eternity if I did not bleed so great betrayal
the kingdom, against the memory of their elders and against the Holy
Church of Christ.

At the same time, a strange fear began to shake. What was that grass juice hechiceriles drinking
had been done without him noticing? Would not mediated, indeed, like the priest said, some
filter, some evil potion? He remembered the look so deep, so strange that his former mistress had
led before the Tribunal of the Inquisition, the be dragged back to
the torture, and thought some terrible aojamiento, whose influence
could last for the rest of his life.

- What understandable impulse
- then he asked himself - just direct you to Toledo, where she had
to be conducted by the peons of the Inquisition?

This last thought doeth shudder at times and filled him with superhuman fear, but sometimes, an
inner voice whispered and accommodating his Divine Majesty had wished Righteous bring the city
to dry out the fire he saw his old pond lust.

Some days, I spent long hours wandering around the Cathedral, as in a forest of stone blooming
all hot glass, and, meditating at the same time sin, postrábase knees, here and there, in
the shadow of the chapels. But in moments of acute distress preferred a of these churches intimate,
such as San Andrés, San Torcuato, Santo Domingo el Real, San Juan Penance, where all evenly
along a lonely altar, with his face in his palms. Other times racked their trouble walking and
walking the streets, random whim.

Toledo subdued him with its complicated mystery. It was a very different city from his hometown.
Avila, in addition to being so small, was neat and understandable. Instead, it's easy to get lost
arabesque in the streets of Toledo. Here the sky was almost always from the bottom a moat and indigo
trimmed closely with overloaded double black shed eaves. In some streets, narrow as brokers,
the facades were built long dark, and only the top was burning on the lime, the sharp band of sun.

Shadow
on these channels, the chest closed balconies suspended their intelligence and mystery. Sometimes
a snow-white arm sticking out from the woods and threw into Ramiro a flower or icing. The fiery gates,
bristling with iron, suggested in caution of the old seraglio. Ramiro peeped a whiff of the Orient,
all transcended to him to magic, necromancy, a Koran, and religious hatred, exalted by his
remorse, the heart contracted as he crossed the neighborhoods of
the Moors, between the crowded shacks multicolored silk of scarlet
caps, cereal, spices, perfumes.

The walls to the height of a man, were blackened by the same brush indolent Slimming the pillars
of the mosque. The convert, with its hairy legs crossed on the counter buyers called the pan swatting
balance of copper. It was the same garrulous, the same gestures,
the same threats and harmless the suburb bestial Santiago, but far
more tumultuous.

Sometimes, he passed a window, listening Ramiro the rumor of a zambra, and his imagination conjured
up, in spite of himself, bare feet Aixa by hammering the bracelets, her mouth painted eyelashes
and full of love spells. Then looking toward both sides, serious signs of religion: the shrines,
the convent walls and the cross itself victorious, on top of the towers, where still shining
glazed tile embedded by the infidels.

The stale remembered stories he had read or heard concerning Toledo, lewd stories given off
as lovers clothes, the smell of fever and lust.

So that city now spoke the language of his own pain, as if it were the transcript of his soul
corporeal.

Toledo was the city remorseful and penitent, the city of atonement. Their monasteries were erasing
with blood and tears, the shame of the harems, the lubricity of the bathrooms and sofas. The
tremendous monastic virginity finally vanished for ever, the shadow of Jarifa and Galiano. The swab
purified exorcised mihrabs mosques and pools ablutions. Many layers of lime had been hidden and
riddled arabesques.

The frantic voices of the monks, in the dark chorus, drowning in memory until the last echo
of the song of the muezzin. The wax and oil burning continuously.

       Cried the ancient minarets with Catholic bells remorse.

A dream of another life, a yearning for eternal salvation shone on the pupil's febriciente
nobles, almost all in black dresses. The dwellings themselves had monastic face. Lived in them
a life of silence and shadow. A lantern lit continuously dark hallways in an image of Our
Lady, as the goal of beaterios, and disseminated in the environment lattice church perfumes.
That city, desecrated by Jews and Moors, antojábasele Ramiro, sunk as one being in immense pain religious
and dusk, believed to breathe through the streets, wandering breath of waking breath feverish
insomnia, penance.

He also had to exorcise his heart, erase other lewd and perjury, and fold the all the shameful
memory that stood like a rock between God and soul.

* * * * *

One afternoon, sitting on a bench of Zocodover, linked Ramiro friendship with the old swordsmith
Sunday de Aguirre.

It was time for a nap. It seemed as if the stroke of a fall on Toledo which hypnotic spell.
Everything is sinking, at first, in the same spell. Up wandering
vendors fell down with his goods, where it took the blow of the clapper.

In the plaza, more than one third the bedclothes and fell asleep. Everyone idle corrillera,
thugs, beggars, disabled soldiers, artisans out of work, gentlemen
sheet with waxed mustaches and colored tights, and more than a petty
hidalguejo, mingled common that rest under the crystal light.

The village trimmed blinding whiteness of a sapphire sky. The roosters
crowed in the distance in cigarrales.

Ramiro minutely observed Verdaches those piles of coats and brown. Meanwhile, on his right, the
swordsmith watched him straight in the eye, as if to make friends. Finally, in a low voice and
pointing the weapon that Ramiro had been suspended from the girdle, burst:

- Does it leave the gentleman to look at that beautiful sword hand he leads?

Ramiro is the best they offered.

The man, after he unsheathed a blade span, recazo carefully observed:

- Not in vain - he added - I had jewel winked. Here is the brand of my father's Hortunas Aguirre,
that God!

Then undressing completely, the tip asiola the other hand, and, arching like a reed, then let
them fall away sharply. The metal rang like a bell that sounded far away.

- Oh, not forged swords of this sort, sir knight! - Domingo de Aguirre added .-- The Steel
is becoming dirtier and more vile temper.

- It is said, indeed - Ramiro said, - you have lost some secrets of the past.

- As for secrets, sir, never were. The water from the Tagus is up the same, the mud did not changed,
the fire is always fire, and point to what should be done everyone knows it. What is missing
is the honor.

Today everything is interested and malice. Out of one another as Ayala or Jusepe de la Hera, but
no longer looking to fill soon and the bank.

In my time beat each sword as if we're looking at the world and God thyself. If not leave honored
and enforced, as it should be, do not we put on the market for all
the gold of the Indies.

Ah, when I was on a sheet and sacábala finish last of the embers,
color liver and the kidney anointed him to end up putting it to cool,
the heart was trembling, gentle sir!

Ramiro observed sideways at his partner. She wore a beautiful hazel color doublet hinted crimson
velvet doublet. A gold circlet around her sparkled high hat. Her sallow face, wide and bulky to
the front, was narrowing as a fig brown, to conclude her chin.

Under yet black brows, shining Two eyes sharp and nervous, who had lived tasting fair dye
irons and following the arabesque of ataujías. The fire had scorched their hands and dark warty
like branches.

His face looked serious and stern expressed honor and firmness.

While Ramiro had always looked with aristocratic contempt anyone who debased their mechanical trades
hands, he thought this time that the wise manufacture of the weapons should be free of villainy,
as illustrious task in the service of the highest enterprises. In addition, he had heard that
Mr. Toledo did not disdain the treatment of espaderos distinguished and that the forges of
the city were meeting place and playground for the nobles.

Those architects were certainly deserving of special respect. Locked in the smoky workshop, Domenico
as iron Cyclops tenacious and brave fire, and were broadcast from one generation to the priesthood
of his master's rude. The passion of the race had claimed to use these steels highest unique tool
that distinguished honor and domination.

Their daggers, their shields, their rapiers, armor, had become so famous Toledo as the councils.

Domingo
de Aguirre, having returned the sword, now supported both hands in his and continued saying

-
How much, sir, that weapons are no longer what they were, when we
see that the entire nation track to their doom?

Ramiro made a gesture of astonishment.

- Yes, sir knight, Spain lost. The Courts claim and the King does not hear. The commoner he
is breaking the backbone under the burden of taxes, sick industries worm of the sales tax, cities chagrin,
squalid camps. Agora whole art private is to plunder the villages. Today all the Esquiline gnaw
to the blood, although perish tomorrow. Daca, daca, and Menga vénguese against which it comes.

- And you think your worship - said Ramiro - tribute that we should leave more or less honorable
wars that are settling our reputation around the world and the nation will Spanish wonder of the coming
centuries?

He said interruption polite accent, but are not counteract those verbs that began to interest
and that at times brought him to mind the words of Bracamonte.

- Wars honorable, sir, were those of yesteryear, when kingdoms were won by the sword, - said
the swordsmith, - but they all done that or lost doubloons ailments.

Do you think perhaps your worship that the thirds are now to the war for the glory or the triumph our
holy religion?

Today, as I do tell the soldier of an appetizer, which has little
I wrote ...

He paused, mondo chest, and as a helper, he recited the
following speech:

- Today, vote Lordy, no shield to defend as it
sounds in the bag, drummer you do go better than doubloons, more lucid
than real silver.

Once risked life for the glory of the king, his face Hogan struck in Segovia. Gánanse duchies with
ducats, the streets of France with their own guns, and I swear by Saint Andrew!, previously
do heretics quarters holgárame my pennies to quarters.
- Clever Language - Ramiro said. Then, raising his head and covering
his eyes full scope of Zocodover, abruptly asked: - Can you tell me
if this is your grace the square where he celebrated his car the Inquisition?

-
Here thyself.

- What are as lucid as they say?

- The Agora is not
present, but tawny owls - the sword maker said, adding at once with
melancholy countenance - how little freeloaders Ah, gentle sir, the
glories of this world! Just putting cherry vase Escura and mushy as
it is, then the bug tasting. No longer cars, but the joys mesmos agora
games or what to do with what they witnessed my eyes of youth? What
did that dress and that greatness? Who will see again those entries
of princes and those old parties, and those lights and costumes, and
those Botafuegos bizarre and flying firework? What became of those
joys, where gangs they would just passed their Marlotes silk, and
the girls of the brothel, arrayed fine gold and of veils, dancing
to the sound of the drum through the streets canopied? Yes, gentle
sir, Toledo Toledo is no longer - this time he cried, shaking a negative
index .-- With the court left the greatest lords, and their architects,
who gave it such fame are agora as agorgojado grain. Do you know your
grace that even the silk twisters, compelled to it by excessive taxes,
they fall in the fraud and concealment, and that some will add salt
or waited until heavy oil, double the thread good with the raw, without
twisting and taking Moorish slaves or to lower wages? Ah, no longer
checked by the same, no, this head the Spains!

The nap was nearing
completion. Some packages gave unmistakable signs of awakening. Two
constables walking in the sun.

Aguirre, explaining at once the franchise
of his art, finally said:

- Your worship knows, without doubt, that
the office of the swordsmith is noble, and before that detracts clean
the blood, which without it would not have exercised my father nor
I mesmo, because our house is very old and connects back in the days
of King Wise, with Mr. de Haro, which is like saying the first family
in Spain.

He was Sunnybank Lad; eighty-pound collie; tawny and powerful; with absurdly tiny white forepaws
and with a Soul looking out from his deep-set dark eyes. Chum and housemate he was to his two
human gods;--a dog, alone of all worshipers, having the privilege of looking on the face of
his gods and of communing with them without the medium of priest or of prayer.

Lady, only, of the Place's bevy of Little People, refused from earliest puppyhood to acknowledge
Lad's benevolent rulership. She bossed and teased and pestered him, unmercifully. And Lad not
only let her do all this, but he actually reveled in it. She was his mate. More,--she was his
idol. This idolizing of one mate, by the way, is far less uncommon among dogs than we mere
humans realize.

The summer afternoon hush was split by the whirring chug of a motor-car; that turned in from
the highroad, two hundred yards beyond the house, and started down through the oak grove, along
the winding driveway. Immediately, Lady was not only awake, but on her feet, and in motion.
A furry gold-white whirlwind, she flashed off of the vine-shaded veranda and tore at top speed
up the hill to meet the coming car.

No, it was not the Mistress and the Master whose approach stirred the fiery little collie to
lightning activity. Lad knew the purr of the Place's car and he could distinguish it from any
other, as far as his sensitive ears could catch its sound. But to Lady, all cars were alike;
and all were signals for wild excitement.

Like too many other collies, she had a mania for rushing at any motor vehicle, and for whizzing
along beside it, perilously close to its fast-moving wheels, barking and screaming hysterically
and bounding upward at its polished sides.

Nor had punishment and scolding cured her of the trait. She was an addict at car-chasing. She
was wholly incurable. There are such dogs. Soon or late, many of them pay high for the habit.

In early days, Lad also had dashed after motors. But a single sharp lecture from the Master
had taught him that this was one of the direst breaches of the Place's simple Law. And, thenceforth,--though
he might tremble with eagerness,--he stood statue-still when an automobile spun temptingly
past him.

More,--he had cured pup after pup, at the Place, of car-chasing. But Lady he could not cure;
though he never gave up the useless attempt.

Down the drive came a delivery truck; driven fast and with none too great skill. Before it
had covered half the distance between gate and house, Lady was alongside. A wheel grazed her
shoulder fur as, deftly, she slipped from in front of the vehicle and sprang up at its tonneau.
With a ceaseless fanfare of barks,--delirious in her excitement,--she circled the car; springing,
dodging, wheeling.

The delivery boy checked speed and shouted futile warnings to the insane collie. As he slowed
down a bit on the steep grade, Lady hurled herself in front of the machine, as though taunting
it for cowardice in abating its hot pace on her account.

Again and again had she run, head on, at advancing cars. It seemed to delight her when such
cars slackened speed or swerved, in order not to kill her.

Now, as she whizzed backward, her vibrant muzzle a bare six inches from the shiny buffer, one
of her flying feet slipped in a mud rut. Her balance gone, she tumbled.

A collie down is a collie up, in less than a second. But there was still less than a second's
space between to overthrown Lady and the car's front wheels.

The boy slammed on the emergency brake. Through his mind ran the formless thought of his fate
at the hands of his employer when he should return to the store with tidings that he had run
over and killed a good customer's costly collie; and on the customer's own grounds.

In that single breathless instant, a huge mahogany-and-snow shape flashed forward, into the
path of the machine.

Lad, following his mate, had tried to shoulder her aside and to herd her too far back from
the drive for any possible return to the danger zone, until the car should have passed. More
than once, at other times, had he done this. But, today, she had eluded his mighty shoulder
and had flung herself back to the assault.

As she fell, she rolled over, twice, from her own momentum. The second revolution left her
directly in front of the skidding wheels. One of them had actually touched her squirming spine;
when white teeth gripped her by the scruff of the neck. Those teeth could crush a mutton-bone
as a child cracks a peanut. But, on Lady, today, their power was exerted only to the extent
of lifting her, in one swift wrench, clear of the ground and high in air.

The mischievous collie flew through space like a lithe mass of golden fluff; and came to earth,
in a heap, at the edge of the drive; well clear of the menacing wheels. With Lad, it fared
otherwise.

The great dog had braced himself, with all his might, for the muscle-wrenching heave. Wherefore,
he had no chance to spring clear, in time to avoid the car. This, no doubt, he had realized,
when he sprang to his adored mate's rescue. For Lad's brain was uncanny in its cleverness.
That same cleverness, more likely than mere chance,--now came to his own aid.

The left front wheel struck him and struck him fair. It hit his massive shoulder, dislocating
the joint and knocking the eighty-pound dog prone to earth, his ruff within an inch of the
wheel. There was no time to gather his feet under him or to coerce the dislocated shoulder
into doing its share toward lifting him in a sideways spring that should carry him out of the
machine's way. There was but one thing Lad could do. And he did it.

His body in a compact bunch, he rolled midway between the wheels; making the single revolution
at a speed the eye could scarce follow,--a speed which jerked him from under the impending
left wheel which already had smitten him down.

Over him slid the wheel-locked car, through the mud of a recent rain; while the boy clung to
the emergency brake and yelled.

Over him and past him skidded the car. It missed the prostrate dog,--missed him with all four
wheels; though the rear axle's housing smeared his snowy ruff with a blur of black grease.

On went the machine for another ten feet, before it could halt. Then a chalk-faced delivery
boy peered backward in fright,--to see Lad getting painfully to his feet and holding perplexedly
aloft his tiny right forepaw in token of the dislocated shoulder.

The delivery boy saw more. In a swirl of black bad temper, Lady had gathered herself up from
the ditch where Lad's toss had landed her. Without a moment's pause she threw herself upon
the luckless dog whose rough toss had saved her life. Teeth aglint, growling ferociously, she
dug her fangs into the hurt shoulder and slung her whole weight forward in the bite.

Thus was it the temperamental Lady's wont to punish real or fancied injuries from the Place's
other animals,--and from humans as well, except only the Mistress and the Master. She charged
first, and did her thinking afterward. Apparently, her brain, just then, could hold no impression
except that her interfering mate had picked her up by the neck-scruff and had thrown her, head
over heels, into a ditch. And such treatment called for instant penalty.

Under her fifty-pound impact, poor Lad's three-cornered balance gave way. Down he went in an
awkward heap; while Lady snarled viciously and snapped for his momentarily exposed throat.
Lad turned his head aside to guard the throat; but he made no move to resent this ungrateful
onslaught; much less to fight back. Which was old Lad's way,--with Lady.

Dislocated shoulder or not, he would have flown at any male dog that assailed him; and would
have made the aggressor fight for dear life. But his mate was sacred. And he merely protected
his throat and let her nip agonizingly at his ears and paws; until her brief flurry of wrath
should be past.

A shout from the veranda,--whither the racket had drawn the Master from his study,--put a sudden
stop to Lady's brainstorm. Obedience was the first and foremost rule drilled into the Little
People of the Place. And, from puppy days, the collies were taught to come,--and to come at
a run,--at call from the Mistress or the Master.

Lady, with no good grace, desisted from her punitive task, and galloped down the drive to the
house. Lad, rising with difficulty, followed; as fast as a three-legged gait would permit.
And behind them chugged the delivery boy, bawling explanations.

A sharp word of reproof sent Lady skulking into a corner; anger forgotten in humiliation at
the public rebuke. The Master paid no heed to her. Running up the drive, he met Lad, and picked
up the suffering collie in his arms. Carrying him into the study, the Master gave first aid
to the serious dislocation; then phoned for the nearest good vet.

As he left the study, to telephone, he encountered Lady, very woebegone and cringing, at the
door. When he returned, he beheld the remorseful little gold-and-white vixen licking her mate's
hurt shoulder and wagging a propitiatory tail in plea for forgiveness from the dog she had
bitten and from the Master whose Law she had broken by her attack on the car.

Always, after her brief rages, Lady was prettily and genuinely repentant and eager to make
friends again. And, as ever, Lad was meeting her apologies more than half-way;--absurdly blissful
at her dainty attentions.

In the days that followed, Lady at first spent the bulk of her time near her lame mate. She
was unusually gentle and affectionate with him; and seemed trying to make up to him for the
enforced idleness of strained sinews and dislocated joint. In her friendliness and attention,
Lad was very, very happy.

The vet had bandaged his shoulder and had anointed it with pungently smelly medicines whose
reek was disgusting and even painful to the thoroughbred's supersensitive nostrils. Moreover,
the vet had left orders that Lad be made to keep quiet until the hurt should heal; and that
he risk no setback by undue exertion of any sort. It was sweet to lie in the Master's study,--one
white forepaw or the great shapely head laid lovingly on the man's hiking boot; and with an
occasional pat or a friendly word from his deity, as the latter pounded away on a clicky typewriter
whose jarring noise Lad had long ago taught himself to tolerate.

Sweeter it was to be made much of and "poored" by the Mistress; and to have her light hands
adjust his bandages; and to hear her tell him what a dear dog he was and praise his bravery
in rescuing Lady.

Perhaps sweetest of all, in those early days of convalescence, was the amazing solicitude of
Lady herself; and her queerly maternal tenderness toward him.

But, as the summer days dreamed themselves away and Lad's splendid health brought him nearer
and nearer to recovery, Lady waxed restive under the long strain of indolence and of good temper.
Lad had been her companion in the early morning rambles through the forest, back of the Place;
in rabbit quests; in swims in the ice, cool lake at the foot of the lawn; in romps on the smooth
green grass and in a dozen of the active pursuits wherein country-bred collies love to squander
the outdoor days.

Less and less did Lady content herself with dull attendance on the convalescent. More and more
often did she set forth without him on those cross-country runs that had meant so much to them
both. Lad would watch her vanish up the drive,--their fiery little son, Wolf, cantering gleefully
at her side. Then, his dark eyes full of sorrow, he would gaze at the Master and, with a sigh,
would lie back on his rug--and wait.

There was something so human,--so uncomplainingly wretched,--in look and in sigh,--that the
Master was touched by the big dog's loneliness and vexed at the flighty Lady's defection. Stooping
down, at one such time, he ran his hand over the beautiful silky head that rested against his
knee; and said in lame attempt at comfort:--

"Don't let it get under your skin, Laddie! She isn't worth it. One of your honest paws is worth
more than her whole fly-away body.--Not that anyone ever was loved because he or she was worthy!--You're
up against the penalty that is bound to get everybody with a soul, who is fool enough to love
something or somebody without one . . . . We're going over for the mail,--the Mistress and
I. Want to come along?"

At once the melancholy in Lad's deep eyes gave place to puppy-like exultance.

While, naturally, he did not understand one word in ten of the Master's frequent prosy homilies
to him, or of the Mistress's more melodious speech, yet, from puppyhood, he had been talked
to by both of them. And, as ever with a highbred collie, such constant conversation had borne
ample fruit;--not only in giving the dog a startling comprehension of voice-meanings, but also
in teaching him to understand many simple words and phrases.

For example, he recognized, as readily as would any five-year-old child, this invitation to
go motoring. And it banished the memory of Lady's fickleness.

This morning, for the first time since his accident, Lad was able to spring into the car-tonneau,
unaided. His hurt was all-but well. Enthroning himself in the precise center of the rear seat,
he prepared to enjoy every inch of the ride.

No matter how long or how tedious were these jaunts, Lad never went to sleep or ceased to survey
with eager attention the myriad details of the trip. There was something half-laughable, half-pathetic,
in his air of strained interest.

Only when the Mistress and the Master both chanced to leave the car at the same time, at market
or bank or postoffice, would Lad cease from this genial and absorbed inspection of everything
in sight. Left alone in the machine, he always realized at once that he was on guard. Head
on paws he would lie, intently scanning anyone who might chance to pause near the auto; and,
with a glint of curved white fang beneath sharply upcurled lip, warning away such persons as
ventured too close.

Marketing done, today, the trio from the Place started homeward. Less than a quarter-mile from
their own gateway, they heard the blaring honk of a motor horn behind them.

Within a second thereafter, a runabout roared past, the cut-out making echoes along the still
road; and a poisonously choking cloud of dust whirling aloft in the speedster's wake.

The warning honk had not given the Mistress time to turn out. Luckily she was driving well
on her own side of the none-too-wide road. As it was, a sharp little jar gave testimony to
the light touch of mudguards. And the runabout whizzed on.

"That's one of the speed-idiots who make an automobile an insult to everybody except its owner!
The young fool!" stormed the Master, glowering impotently at the other car, already a hundred
yards ahead; and at the back of its one occupant, a sportily-clad youth in the early twenties.

A high-pitched yelping bark,--partly of dismay, partly of warning,--from Lad, broke in on the
Master's fuming remonstrance. The big dog had sprung up from his rear seat cushion and, with
forepaws gripping the back of the front seat, he was peering forward; his head and shoulders
between the Mistress and the Master.

Never before in all his rides had Lad so transgressed the rules of motoring behavior as to
thrust himself forward like this. A word of rebuke died on the Master's tongue; as the Mistress,
with a gasp of fear, pointed ahead, in the path of the speeding runabout.

Lady and Wolf had had a jolly gallop through the summer woodlands. And at last they had turned
their faces homeward; for the plunge in the cool lake which was wont to follow a hot weather
run. Side by side they jogged along, to the forest edge--and into the sixteen-acre meadow that
stretches from forest to highway.

A few rods on the far side of the road which separated the meadow from the rest of the Place,
Wolf paused to investigate a chipmunk hole. Lady was more interested just then in splashing
her hot body in the chill of the lake than in exploring for hypothetical chipmunks.

Moreover, her keen ears caught a sound which rapidly swept nearer and nearer. A motor-car with
the muffler cut out was approaching, at a most gratifyingly high speed.

The noise was as martial music to Lady. The speed promised exhilarating sport. Her trot merged
into a headlong run; and she dashed out into the road.

The runabout was a bare fifty yards ahead of her, and it was coming on with a speed which shook
even Lady's excitement-craving nerves. Here, evidently, was a playmate which it would be safer
to chase than to confront head-on.

It was at this juncture, by the way, that Lad lurched forward from the rear seat and that the
Mistress pointed in terror at the endangered collie.

Lady, for once overawed by speed, leaped to one side of the road. Not far, but leaving ample
space for the driver to miss her by at least a yard. He had honked loudly, at sight of her.
But, he had abated not an atom of his fifty-mile-an-hour pace.

Whether the man was rattled by the collie's antics,--whether he acted in sudden rage at her
for startling him, whether he belonged to the filthy breed of motorist who recites chucklingly
the record of his kills,--he did not hold his midroad course.

Instead,--still without checking speed,--he veered his machine slightly to the right; aiming
the flying juggernaut directly at the mischievously-poised little collie who danced in imagined
safety at the road-edge.

The rest was horror.

Merciful in its mercilessness, the hard-driven right front wheel smote the silky golden head
with a force that left no terrible instant of fear or of agony. More lucky by far than the
myriad innocent and friendly dogs that are left daily to scream out their lives writhingly
in the wake of speeding motor-cars, Lady was killed at a single stroke.

The fluffy golden body was hurled far in front of its slayer; and the wheels struck it a second
time. The force of the impact caused the runabout to skid, perilously; and the youthful driver
brought it to a jarring and belated halt. Springing to the ground, he rolled the dead collie's
impeding body into the shallow wayside ditch, clear of his wheels. Then, scrambling aboard
again, he jammed down the accelerator.

Lad had made a flying leap over the door of the Master's car. He struck ground with a force
which crumpled his healing right shoulder under him. Heedless of the pain, he hurled himself
forward, on three legs, at an incredible speed; straight for the runabout. His great head low,
his formidable teeth agleam beneath drawn-back lips, his soft eyes a-smolder with red flame,
Lad charged.

But, for all his burst of speed, he was too late to avenge; even as he had been too late to
save. By the time he could reach the spot where Lady lay crumpled and moveless in the ditch,
the runabout had gathered full speed and was disappearing down the bend of the highway.

After it flew Lad, silent, terrible,--not stopping to realize that the fleetest dog,--even
with all four of his legs in commission,--cannot hope to overhaul a motor-car driven at fifty
miles an hour.

But, at the end of a furious quarter-mile, his wise brain took charge once more of his vengeance-craving
heart. He halted, snarled hideously after the vanished car, and limped miserably back to the
scene of the tragedy.

There, he found the Mistress sitting in the roadside dust, Lady's head in her lap. She was
smoothing lovingly the soft rumpled fur; and was trying hard not to cry over the inert warm
mass of gold-and-white fluffiness which, two minutes earlier, had been a beautiful thoroughbred
collie, vibrant with life and fun and lovableness.

The Master had risen from his brief inspection of his pet's fatal injuries. Scowling down the
road, he yearned to kick himself for his stupidity in failing to note the Juggernaut's number.

Head and tail a-droop, Lad toiled back to where Lady was lying. A queer low sound, strangely
like a human sob, pulsed in his shaggy throat, as he bent down and touched his dead mate's
muzzle with his own. Then, huddling close beside her, he reverted all at once to a trait of
his ancestors, a thousand generations back.

Sitting on his haunches and lifting his pointed nose to the summer sky, he gave vent to a series
of long-drawn wolf howls; horrible to hear. There was no hint of a housebred twentieth century
dog in his lament. It was the death-howl of the primitive wolf;--a sound that sent an involuntary
shiver through the two humans who listened aghast to their chum's awesome mourning for his
lost mate.

The Master made as though to say something,--in comfort or in correction. The Mistress, wiser,
motioned to him not to speak.

In a few seconds, Lad rose wearily to his feet; the spasm of primal grief having spent itself.
Once more he was himself; sedate, wise, calm.

Limping over to where the car had halted so briefly, he cast about the ground, after the manner
of a bloodhound.

Presently, he came to an abrupt halt. He had found what he sought. As motionless as a bird-dog
at point, he stood there; nose to earth, sniffing.

"What in blazes--?" began the Master, perplexed.

The Mistress was keener of eye and of perception. She understood. She saw the Lad's inhalingly
seeking muzzle was steady above a faint mark in the road-dust;--the mark of a buckskin shoe's
print. Long and carefully the dog sniffed. Then, with heavy deliberation he moved on to the
next footprint and the next. The runabout's driver had taken less than a half dozen steps in
all; during his short descent to the ground. But Lad did not stop until he had found and identified
each and every step.

"He knows!" marveled the Mistress. "He saw the brute jump down from his car. And he has found
his footsteps. He'll remember them, too."

"Little good it will do the poor chap!" commented the Master. "He can't track him, that way.
Get aboard, won't you?" he went on. "I'll make Lad go back into the tonneau again, too. Drive
down to the house; and take Lad indoors with you. Better telephone to the vet to come over
and have another look at his shoulder. He's wrenched it badly, in all that run. Anyway, please
keep him indoors till--"

He finished his sentence by a glance at Lady. At the Master's order, Lad with sore reluctance
left the body of his mate; whither he had returned after his useless finding of the footmarks.
He had just curled up, in the ditch, pressing close to her side; and again that unnatural sobbing
sound was in his throat. On the Master's bidding, Lad crossed to the car and suffered himself
to be lifted aboard. The Mistress started down the drive. As they went, Lad ever looked back,
with suffering despair in his dark eyes, at that huddle of golden fur at the wayside.

The Master carried the pitifully light armful to a secluded spot far beyond the stables; and
there he buried it. Then, satisfied that Lad could not find his mate's grave, he returned to
the house.

His heart was heavy with helpless wrath. Again and again, in the course of their drives, he
and the Mistress had sickened at sight of mutely eloquent little bodies left in mid-road or
tossed in some ditch,--testimony to the carelessness and callous hoggishness of autoists. Some
few of these run-over dogs,--like poor Lady,--had of course tempted fate; spurred on by that
strange craving which goaded them to fly at cars. But the bulk of them had been strolling peacefully
along the highways or crossing to or from their own dooryards, when the juggernauts smashed
them into torture or into instant death.

The Master reflected on the friendly country folk who pay taxes for the scenery and for the
fine roads which make motoring so pleasant;--and on the reward so many motorists bestow upon
these rural hosts of theirs by wanton or heedless murder of pet animals. For the first time,
he could understand how and why farmers are tempted to strew glass or tacks in the road to
revenge the slaying of a beloved dog.

For the next few days, until his shoulder was again in condition to bear his eighty-pound weight
on it, Lad was kept indoors or on the veranda. As soon as he was allowed to go out alone, the
big collie went straight to the spot where last he had seen Lady's body. Thence, he a made
a careful detour of the Place,--seeking for--something. It was two days before he found what
he sought.

In the meantime,--as ever, since his mate's killing,--he ate practically nothing; and went
about in a daze.

"He'll get over it presently," prophesied the Master, to soothe his wife's worry.

"Perhaps so," returned the Mistress. "Or perhaps not. Remember he's a collie, and not just
a human."

On the third day, Lad's systematic quartering of the Place brought him to the tiny new mound,
far beyond the stables. Twice, he circled it. Then he lay down, very close beside it; his mighty
head athwart the ridge of upflung sod.

There,--having seen him from a distance,--the Master came across to speak to him. But at sight
of the man, the collie got up from his resting place and moved furtively away.

Time after time, during the next week, the Master or the Mistress found him lying there. And
always, at their approach, he would get up and depart. Nor did he go direct to the mound, on
these pilgrimages; but by devious paths; as though trying to shake off possible pursuit. No
longer did he spend the nights, as from puppyhood, in his beloved "cave" under the piano in
the music room. On one pretext or another, he would manage to slip out of the house, during
the evening. Twice, in gray dawn, the Master found him crouched beside the mound, where, sleepless,
he had lain all night.

The Mistress and the Master grew seriously troubled over their collie chum's continued grief.
They thought, more than once, of sending him away to boarding kennels or to some friend, for
a month or two; to remove him from the surroundings which made him so wretched. Oddly enough,
his heartbreak struck neither of them as absurd.

They had made a long study of collie nature in all its million queer and half-human phases.
They knew, too, that a grieving dog is upheld by none of the supports of Faith nor of Philosophy;
and that he lacks the wisdom which teaches the wondrous anaesthetic powers of Time. A sorrowing
dog sorrows without hope.

Nor did Lad's misery seem ridiculous to the Place's many kindly neighbors; with whom the great
dog was a favorite and who were righteously indignant over the killing of Lady.

Then in a single minute came the cure.

On Labor Day afternoon, the finals in a local tennis tournament were to be played at the mile
distant country club. The Mistress and the Master went across to the tournament; taking Lad
along. Not that there could be anything of the remotest interest to a dog in the sight of flanneled
young people swatting a ball back and forth. But Lad was a privileged guest at all outdoor
functions; and he enjoyed being with his two deities.

Thus, when the two climbed the clubhouse veranda, Lad was at their heels; pacing along in majestic
unhappiness and not turning his beautiful head in response to any of a dozen greetings flung
at him. The Mistress found a seat among a bevy of neighbors. Lad lay down, decorously, at her
feet; and refused to display the faintest interest in anything that went on around him.

The playing had not yet begun. New arrivals were drifting up the steps of the clubhouse. Car
after car disgorged women in sport clothes and men in knickerbockers or flannels. There was
plenty of chatter and bustle and motion. Lad paid no heed to any of it.

Then, up to the foot of the veranda steps jarred a flashy runabout; driven by a flashier youth.
At word from the policeman in charge he parked his car at the rear of the clubhouse among fifty
others, and returned on foot to the steps.

"That's young Rhuburger," someone was confiding to the Mistress. "You must have read about
him. He was arrested as a Conscientious Objector, during the war. Since then, his father has
died, and left him all sorts of money. And he is burning it; in double handfuls. No one seems
to know just how he got into the club, here. And no one seems to--"

The gossipy maundering broke off short; drowned in a wild beast growl.

Both the Mistress and her husband had been eyeing Rhuburger as he ascended the veranda steps
in all the glory of unbelievably exquisite and gaudy raiment. There seemed to both of them
something vaguely familiar about the fellow; though neither could place him. But, to Lad, there
was nothing at all vague in his recollections of the gorgeous newcomer.

As Rhuburger reached the topmost step, the collie lifted his head, his nostrils dilating wide.
A thrill went through him. His nearsighted eyes swept the crowd. They rested at last on Rhuburger.
Another deep inhalation told him all he needed to know. Not in vain had Lad sniffed so long
and so carefully at those faint footprints in the road dust, at the spot where Lady died. In
his throat a deep growl was born.

"Hello, folks!" Rhuburger was declaiming, to a wholly unenthusiastic circle of acquaintances.
"Made another record, just now. The little boat spun me here from Montclair in exactly nineteen
minutes. That's--that's roughly an average rate of a mile in seventy-five seconds. Not so bad,
eh? That car sure made a hit with ME, all right. Not so much of a hit, maybe, with a couple
of chickens and a fat old dog that had the bad luck to be asleep in the middle of the--"

His plangent brag was lost in a sound seldom heard on the hither side of jungle or zoo. From
the group of slightly disgusted onlookers, a huge and tawny shape burst forth; hurtling through
the air, straight for the fat throat of the boaster.

Rhuburger, by some heaven-sent instinct, flung up his arms to shield his menaced jugular. He
had no time to do more.

Lad's fury-driven eighty pounds of muscular weight crashed full against his chest. Lad's terrible
teeth, missing their throat-goal, drove deep into the uplifted right forearm; shearing through
imported tweed coat-sleeve and through corded silken shirt, and through flabby flesh and clean
to the very bone.

The dog's lion-roar blended with the panic-screeches of the victim. And, under that fearful
impact, Rhuburger reeled back from the stairhead, and went crashing down the steps, to the
broad stone flagging at the bottom.

Not once, during that meteoric, shriek-punctured downward flight, did Lad loose his grip on
the torn forearm. But as the two struck the flagging at the bottom, he shifted his hold, with
lightning speed; stabbing once more for the exposed jugular.

He lunged murderously at his mark. Yes, and this time he found it. His teeth had touched the
pudgy throat, and began to cleave their remorseless way to the very life of the man who had
slain Lady.

But, out of the jumble of cries and stamping feet and explosive shouts from the scared onlookers
on the veranda above, one staccato yell pierced the swirl of rage-mists in the avenging collie's
brain.

"LAD!" came the Master's sharp, scandalized mandate. "LAD!!!"

Hating the thought of desisting from his cherished revenge, the dog heard and heeded. With
visible reluctance, he drew back from the slaughter; and turned his noble head to face the
man who was running down the steps toward him.

Lad knew well what he might expect, for this thing he had done. He knew the Law. He knew, almost
from birth, the courteous tolerance due to folk among whom his deities took him. And now he
had made an industrious effort to kill one of these people.

It was no light offense for a dog to attack a human. Lad, like every well-trained collie, knew
that. His own death might well follow. Indeed, from the babel of voices on the veranda, squalling
confusedly such hackneyed sentiments as "Mad dog!" and "Get a gun!" it seemed highly probable
that Lad was due to suffer full penalty, from the man-pack.

Yet he gave no heed to the clamor. Instead, turning slowly, he faced the Master; ready for
whatever might follow. But nothing followed,--nothing at least that he expected.

The Master simply commanded:--

"Down, Lad!"

As the dog, obediently, dropped to the ground, the Master bent to examine the groaning and
maudlinly weeping Rhuburger. In this Samaritan task he was joined by one or two of the club's
more venturesome members who had followed him down the steps.

Rhuburger was all-but delirious with fright. His throat was scored by the first raking of Lad's
teeth; but in the merest of flesh-wounds. The chewed arm was more serious; but no bone or tendon
was injured. A fortnight of care would see it as good as new. By more or less of a miracle,
no bones had been broken and no concussion caused by the backward dive down the flight of steps.
There were bad bruises a-plenty; but there was nothing worse.

As the Master and the few others who had descended the steps were working over the fallen man,
the Mistress checked the turmoil on the veranda. At Lad's leap, memory of this speed-mad motorist
had rushed back to her.

Now, tersely, for the benefit of those around, she was identifying him with the killer of Lady;
whose death had roused so much indignation in the village. And, as she spoke, the people who
had clamored loudest of mad dogs and who had called so frantically for a gun, waxed silent.
The myriad glances cast at the prostrate and blubbering Rhuburger were not loving. Someone
even said, loudly:

"GOOD old Laddie!"

As the Mistress and the Master were closing the house for the night, a car came down the drive.
Out of it stepped their friend of many years, Maclay, the local Justice of the Peace.

"Hello, Mac!" hailed the Master. "Here to take us all to jail for assault-and-battery; or just
to serve a 'dangerous dog' notice on us?"

He spoke lightly; but he was troubled. Today's escapade might well lead the village law to
take some cognizance of Lad's ferocious deed.

"No," laughed Maclay. "Neither of those things. I'm here, unprofessionally. I thought you people
might like to know a few things, before you go to bed. In the first place, the doctor patched
up Rhuburger's bites and took him home. He couldn't take him home in Rhuburger's own car. For
some of the tennis crowd had gotten at that. What they did to that $6,000 runabout was a crime!
They stripped it of everything. They threw the carburetor and the wheels and the steering gear
and a lot of other parts into the lake."

"WHAT?"

"Then they left their cards pinned to the dismantled machine's cushions;--in case Rhuburger
cares to go further into the matter. While they were doing all that, the club's Governors had
a hurry-call meeting. And for once the Board was unanimous about something. It was unanimous--in
expelling Rhuburger from the club. Then we--By the way, where's Laddie? Curled up by Lady's
grave, as usual, I suppose? Poor old dog!"

"No," denied the Mistress. "He's asleep in his 'cave' under the piano. He went there, of his
own accord. And he ate a perfectly tremendous supper, tonight. He's--he's CURED!"

CHAPTER VIII. In Strange Company

Lad was getting along in years.

Not yet had age begun to claw at him; blearing the wondrous deep-set dark eyes and silvering
the classic muzzle and broadening the shapely skull and stiffening the sweepingly free gait;
dulling the sharp ears or doing any of the other pitiably tragic things that nature does to
the dog who is progressing in his teens. Those, humiliations were still waiting for Lad, one
by one; beyond the next Turn of the Road.

Yet the romp and the spirit of bubbling fun and the lavishly needless exercise--these were
merging into sobriety. True, at rare times, with the Mistress or the Master--especially with
the Mistress, Lad would forget he was middle-aged and dignified; and would play like a crazy
puppy. But, for the most part he had begun to carry his years a trifle seriously.

He was not yet in the winter or even the Indian Summer of his beautiful life. But, at least,
he had strolled into its early autumn.

And this, be it well remembered, is the curse which Stepmother Nature placed upon The Dog,
when he elected to turn his back on his own kind, and to become the only one of the world's
four-footed folk to serve Man of his own accord. To punish the Dog for this abnormality, Nature
decreed that his life should begin to fail, almost as soon as it had reached the glory of its
early prime.

A dog is not at his best, in mind or in body, until he has passed his third year. And, before
he nears the ten-year mark, he has begun to decline. At twelve or thirteen, he is as decrepit
as is the average human of seventy. And not one dog in a hundred can be expected to live to
fourteen.

(Lad, by some miracle, was destined to endure past his own sixteenth birthday; a record seldom
equaled among his race.)

And so to our story:--

When the car and the loaded equipment-truck drew up at the door, that golden October day, Lad
forgot his advancing years. In a moment, he was once more a puppy. For he knew what it all
meant. It did not need the advent of the Mistress and the Master from the house, in rough outing
clothes, nor the piling of duffle-bags and the like into the car's tonneau, to send Laddie
into a transport of trumpeting and gyrations. The first sight and sniff of the tents, rolled
tight in the truck, had done that. Lad understood. Lad always understood.

This gear meant the annual fall camping trip in the back reaches of the Ramapo Mountains, some
twenty-odd miles north of the Place; the fortnight of tent-life, of shooting, of fishing, of
bracingly chill nights and white-misted dawns and of drowsily happy campfire evenings. It meant
all manner of adventure and fun for Lad.

Now, on a fishing jaunt, the presence of any kind of dog is a liability; not an asset. A thousand
dog-fancier fishermen can attest to that. And, when humans are hunting any sort of game, a
collie is several degrees worse than worthless.

Thus, Lad's usefulness, as a member of the party, was likely to be negligible;--except in the
matter of guarding camp and as an all-round pal for the two campers.

Yet, as on former years, there was no question of leaving him at home. Where the Mistress and
the Master went, he went, too; whenever such a thing were possible. He was their chum. And
they would have missed him as much as he would have missed them.

Which, of course, was an absurd way for two reasonably sane people to regard a mere dog. But,
then, Lad was not a "mere" dog.

Thus it was that he took his place, by invitation, in the car's tonneau, amid a ruck of hand-luggage;
as the camp-ward pilgrimage began. Ten miles farther on, the equipment truck halted to take
aboard a guide named Barret, and his boy; and their professionally reliable old Irish setter.

This setter had a quality, not over-common with members of his grand breed; a trait which linked
his career pathetically with that of a livery-plug. He would hunt for anybody. He went through
his day's work, in stubble or undergrowth, with the sad conscientiousness of an elderly bookkeeper.

Away from the main road, and up a steadily rising byway that merged into an axle-snapping mountain-track,
toiled the cars; at last coming to a wheezy and radiator-boiling halt at the foot of a rock-summit
so steep that no vehicle could breast it. In a cup, at the summit of this mountain-top hillock,
was the camp-site; its farther edge only a few yards above a little bass-populated spring-lake.

The luggage was hauled, gruntily, up the steep; and camp was pitched. Then car and truck departed
for civilization. And the two weeks of wilderness life set in.

It was a wonderful time for old Lad. The remoteness and wild stillness of it all seemed to
take him back, in a way, to the wolf-centuries of his ancestors. It had been monstrous pleasant
to roam the peaceful forest back of the Place. But there was a genuine thrill in exploring
these all-but manless woods; with their queer scents of wild things that seldom ventured close
to the ordained haunts of men.

It was exciting, to wake at midnight, beside the smoldering campfire, and to hear, above the
industrious snoring, of the guide and his boy, the stealthy forest noises; the pad-pad-pad
of some wary prowler circling at long range the twinkling embers; the crash of a far-off buck;
the lumbering of some bear down to the lake to drink. The almost moveless sharp air carried
a myriad fascinating scents which human nostrils were too gross to register; but which were
acutely plain and understandable to the great dog.

Best of all, in this outing, Lad's two deities, the Mistress and the Master, were never busy
at desk or piano, or too much tangled up with the society of silly outsiders, to be his comrades
and playmates. True, sometimes they hurt his supersensitive feelings most distressingly, by
calling to him: "No, no, Laddie. Back! Watch camp'" when he essayed to join them as they set
forth with rods over their shoulders for a half-day's fishing; or as, armed with guns, they
whistled up the bored but worthy setter for a shooting trip. But, for the most, Lad was close
at their sides, during these two wonderful weeks. And he was very happy.

Once, during a solitary ramble, before the humans had awakened in the morning, Lad caught an
odd scent; and followed it for a quarter mile down the mountainside. It waxed stronger and
ranker. At last, a turn around a high boulder brought him face to face with its source. And
he found himself confronting a huge black bear.

The bear was busy looting a bee-tree. It was the season when he and his like are stocking up,
with all the fatmaking food they can gorge, in preparation for the winter's "holing-in." Thus,
he viewed with sluggish non-interest the advent of the dog. He had scented Lad for as long
a time as Lad had scented him. But he had eaten on, unperturbed. For he knew himself to be
the match of any four dogs; especially if the dogs were unaccompanied by men. And, a long autumn
of food had dulled his temper.

So, he merely checked his honey-gorging long enough to roll a rotted log to one side and to
scoop up from under it a pawful of fat white grubs which had decided to winter beneath the
decayed trunk. Then, absent-mindedly brushing aside a squadron of indignant bees, he continued
his sweet feast.

As Lad rounded the boulder and came to a growling halt, the bear raised his honey-smeared head,
showed a yellowing fang from under one upcurled corner of his sticky lips; and glowered evilly
at the collie from out of his reddening little eyes. Then he made as though to go on eating.

But Lad would not have it so. Into his rejuvenated heart stole a tinge of the mischief which
makes a collie puppy dash harrowingly at a tethered cow. Barking with sheer delight in the
excitement of meeting this savage-looking monster, the dog rushed merrily at the bear. His
teeth were not bared. His hackles were not bristling. This was no fight; but a jolly game.
Lad's dark eyes danced with fun.

Midway of his charge, he checked himself. Not through fear, but from utter astonishment. For
his new acquaintance had done a right non-quadrupedal thing. Bruin had reared himself upon
his hind legs; and was standing there, like a man, confronting the dog. He towered, thus, ever
so high above Lad's head.

His short arms, with their saber-shaped claws, were outstretched toward Lad, as if in humble
supplication. But there was nothing supplicating or even civil in the tiny red eyes that squinted
ferociously down at the collie. Small wonder that Laddie halted his own galloping advance;
and stood doubtful!

The Master, a minute earlier, had turned out of the blankets for his painfully icy morning
plunge in the lakelet. The fanfare of barking, a quarter-mile below, changed his intent. A
true dogman knows his dog's bark,--and its every shade of meaning,--as well as though it were
human speech. From the manner wherewith Lad had given tongue, the Master knew he had cornered
or treed something quite out of the common. Catching up his rifle, he made for the direction
of the bark; running at top speed.

The bear put an end to the moment of hesitancy. Lunging forward, he raked at the crouching
collie, with one of his murderous claws; in a gesture designed to gather the impudent dog into
his death-embrace.

Now, even from humans, except only the Mistress and the Master, Lad detested patting or handling
of any kind. Whether he thought this maneuver of the bear's an uncouth form of caress or knew
it for a menace,--he moved back from it. Yet he did so with a leisurely motion, devoid of fear
and expressive of a certain lofty contempt. Perhaps that is why he moved without his native
caution.

At all events, the tip of one of the sweeping claws grazed his ear, opening the big vein, and
hurting like the very mischief.

On the instant, Lad changed from a mischievous investigator to a deeply offended and angry
dog. No longer in doubt as to Bruin's intent, he slithered out of reach of the grasping arms,
with all the amazing speed of a wolf-descended collie of the best sort. And, in practically
the same fraction of a second, he had flashed back to  the attack.

Diving in under the other's surprisingly agile arms, he slashed the bear's stomach with one
of his razorlike eyeteeth; then spun to one side and was out of reach. Down came the bear,
on all fours; raging from the slash. Lurching forward, he flung his huge bulk at the dog. Lad
flashed out of reach, but with less leeway than he would have expected. For Bruin, for all
his awkwardness, could move with bewildering speed.

And, as the bear turned, Lad was at him again, nipping the hairy flank, till his teeth met
in its fat; and then diving as before under the lunging body of the foe.

It was at this point the Master hove in sight. He was just in time to see the flank-bite and
to see Lad dance out of reach of the furious counter. It was an interesting spectacle, there
in the gray dawn and in the primeval forest's depths;--this battle between a gallant dog and
a ragingly angry bear. If the dog had been other than his own loved chum, the Master might
have stood there and watched its outcome. But he was enough of a woodsman to know there could,
in all probability, be but one end to such a fight.

Lad weighed eighty pounds,--an unusually heavy weight for a collie that carries no loose fat,--and
he was the most compactly powerful dog of his size the Master had ever seen. Also, when he
chose to exert it, Lad had the swiftness of a wildcat and the battling prowess of a tiger.

Yet all this would scarce carry him to victory, or even to a draw, against a black bear several
times heavier than himself and with the ability to rend with his claws as well as with his
teeth. Once let Lad's foot slip, in charge or in elusive retreat,--once let him misjudge time
or distance--and he must be crushed to a pulp or ripped to ribbons.

Wherefore, the Master brought his rifle to his shoulder. His finger curled about the trigger.
But it was no easy thing, by that dim light, to aim with any accuracy. Nor was there the slightest
assurance that Lad,--dancing in and out and everywhere and nowhere at once,--might not come
in line with the bullet. Thus,--from a tolerable knowledge of bears and of their comparative
mildness in the plump season of the year,--he shouted at the top of his lungs; and, at the
same time, fired into the air.

The bluff sufficed. Even as Lad jumped back from close quarters and whirled about, at sound
of the voice and the shot,--the bear dropped to all fours, with ridiculous haste; and shambled
off at very creditable speed into the tangle of undergrowth.

Not so far gone in the battle-lust had Bruin been that he cared to risk conflict with an armed
man. Twice, before, in his somewhat long life, had he heard at close quarters the snap of a
rifle, in the forest stillness, and the whine of a bullet. Once, such a bullet had found its
mark by scoring a gouge on his scalp; a gouge which gnats and mayflies and "no-see-'ems" and
less cleanly pests had made a torment for him, for weeks thereafter.

Bruin had a good memory. Just now, he had nothing to defend. He was not at bay. Nor had the
fight-fury possessed him to the exclusion of sanity. Thus, he fled. And, eagerly, Lad gave chase.

But, at the very edge of the bush-rampart, the Master's call brought the collie back, to heel,
exceeding glum and reluctant. Reproachfully, Lad gazed up at the man who had spoiled his morning
of enthralling sport. Halfheartedly, Lad listened to the Master's rebuke, as he followed back
to camp. His day had begun so delightfully! And, as usual, a human had interrupted the fun,
at the most exciting time; and for no apparent reason. Humans were like that.

Barring one other incident, Lad's two weeks at camp were uneventful,--until the very last day.
That "one incident" can be passed over, with modest brevity. It concerned a black-and-white
cat which Lad saw, one evening, sneaking past the campfire's farthest shadows. He gave chase.
The chase ended in less than ten seconds. And, Lad had to be bathed and scoured and rubbed
and anointed, for the best part of twenty-four hours, before he was allowed to come again within
fifty feet of the dining tent.

On a raw morning, the car and the truck made their appearance at the foot of the rocky mountaintop
hillock. The tents had been struck, at daylight; and every cooking utensil and dish had been
scoured and put into the crate as soon as it was used. Camp was policed and cleaned. The fire
was beaten to death; a half-score pails of water were dowsed over its remains; and damp earth
was flung upon it.

In short, the camping spot was not only left as it had been found and as one would want it
to be found again, but every trace of fire was destroyed.

And all this, be it known, is more than a mere rule for campers. It should be their sacred
creed. If one is not thoroughgoing sportsman enough to make his camp-site scrupulously clean,
at least there is one detail he should never allow himself to neglect;--a detail whose omission
should be punished by a term in prison: Namely, the utter extinction of the campfire.

Every year, millions of dollars' worth of splendid trees and of homes are wiped out, by forest
fires. No forest fire, since the birth of time, ever started of its own accord. Each and every
one has been due to human carelessness.

A campfire ill-extinguished;--a smolder of tobacco not stamped out;--the flaming cinders of
a railroad train,--a match dropped among dry leaves before spark and blaze have both been destroyed,--these
be the first and only causes of the average forest fire. All are avoidable. None is avoided.
And the loss to property and to life and to natural resources is unbelievably great.

Any fool can start a forest fire. Indeed, a fool generally does. But a hundred men cannot check
it. Forest wardens post warnings. Forest patrols, afoot or in airships, keep sharp watch. But
the selfish carelessness of man undoes their best precautions.

Sometimes in spring or in lush summer, but far oftenest in the dry autumn, the Red Terror stalks
over mountain and valley; leaving black ruin in its wake. Scarce an autumn passes that the
dirty smoke reek does not creep over miles of sweet woodland, blotting out the sunshine for
a time and blotting out rich vegetation for much longer.

This particular autumn was no exception. On the day before camp was broken, the Mistress had
spied, from the eyrie heights of the knoll, a grim line of haze far to southward; and a lesser
smoke-smear to the west. And the night sky, on two horizons, had been faintly lurid.

The campers had noted these phenomena, with sorrow. For, each wraithlike smoke-swirl meant
the death of tree and shrub. Lad noted the smudges as distinctly as did they. Indeed, to his
canine nostrils, the chill autumn air brought the faint reek of wood-smoke; an odor much too
elusive, at that distance, for humans to smell. And, once or twice, he would glance in worried
concern at these humans; as if wondering why they took so coolly a manifestation that a thousand-year-old
hereditary instinct made the dog shrink from.

But the humans showed no outward sign of terror or of rage. And, as ever, taking his tone from
his gods, Lad decided there was nothing to fear. So, he tried to give no further heed to the reek.

The driver of the truck and his assistant were full of tales of the fire's ravages in other
sections. And their recital was heard with active interest by the folk who for fourteen days
had been out of touch with the world.

"It's well we're lighting out for civilization," said the Master, as he superintended the loading
of the truck. "The woods are as dry as tinder. And if the wind should change and grow a bit
fresher, the blaze over near Wildcat Mountain might come in this direction. If ever it does,
it'll travel faster than any gang of fire-fighters can block it. This region is dead ripe for
such a thing. Not a drop of rain in a month . . . . No, no, Laddie!" he broke off in his maunderings,
as the collie sought to leap aboard the truck in the wake of a roll of bedding. "No, no. You're
going with us, in the car."

Now, long usage and an uncanny intelligence had given Lad a more than tolerable understanding
of the English language's simpler phrases. The term, "You're going with us in the car," was
as comprehensible to him as to any child. He had heard it spoken, with few variations, a thousand
times, in the past nine years. At once, on hearing the Master's command, he jumped down from
the truck; trotted off to the car, a hundred yards distant; and sprang into his wonted place
in the luggage-cluttered tonneau.

He chanced to jump aboard, from one side; just as the guide's hobbledehoy son was hoisting
a heavy and cumbersome duffle bag into the tonneau, from the other. Lad's eighty pounds of
nervous energy smote the bag, amidships; as the boy was balancing it high in air, preparatory
to setting it down between two other sacks. As a result, boy and bag rolled backward in a tangled
embrace, across several yards of stony ground.

Lad had not meant to cause any such catastrophe. Yet he stood looking down in keen enjoyment
at the lively spectacle. But as the boy came to a halt, against a sharp-pointed rock, and sat
up, sniveling with pain, the great dog's aspect changed. Seeming to realize he was somehow
to blame, he jumped lightly down from the car and went over to offer to the sufferer such comfort
as patting forepaw and friendly licking tongue could afford.

"Here!" called the guide, who had seen but a crosssection of the collision. "Here, you! Stop
a-playin' with the dorg, and hustle them bags onto--"

"I wa'n't playin' with him," half-blubbered the boy, glowering dourly at the sympathetic Lad;
and scrambling up from his bruise-punctured roll on the ground. "He came a-buntin' me; and I--"

"That'll do, Sonny!" rasped Barret, who was strong on discipline and who fancied he had witnessed
the climax of a merry game between boy and dog, "I seen what I seen. And I don't aim to take
no back-talk from a wall-eyed, long-legged, chuckle-headed brat; that's hired to help his poor
old dad and who spends his time cuttin' monkeyshines with a dorg. You take that collie over
to the truck, and ask his boss to look after him and to see he don't pester us while we're
aworkin'. On the way back, stop at the lean-to and catch me that bag of cookin' things I left
there. The's just room for 'em, under the seat. Chase!"

Woefully, the boy limped off; his hand clinched in the fur of Lad's ruff. The dog, ordinarily,
would have resented such familiarity. But, still seeking to comfort the victim's manifest unhappiness,
he suffered himself to be led along. Which was Lad's way. The sight of sorrow or of pain always
made him ridiculously gentle and sympathetic.

The boy's bruises hurt cruelly. The distance to the truck was a full hundred yards. The distance
to the lean-to (a permanent shed, back of the camp-site) was about the same, and in almost
the opposite direction. The prospect of the double journey was not alluring. The youth hit
on a scheme to shorten it. First glancing back to see that his father was not looking, he climbed
the bare stony hillock, toward the lean-to; Lad pacing courteously along beside him.

Arrived at the shed, he took from a nail a rope-length; tied  it around Lad's neck; fastened
the dog to one of the uprights; shouldered the cooking-utensil bag; and started back toward
the car.

He had saved himself, thus, a longer walk; and had obeyed his father's orders to take Lad away.
He was certain the Master, or one of the others, missing the dog, would see him standing forlornly
there, just outside the lean-to's corner; or that another errand would bring some of the party
to the shed to release him. At best, the boy was sore of heart and of body, at his own rough
treatment. And he had scant interest anything else.

Twenty minutes later, the truck chugged bumpily off, upon its trip down the hazardous mountain
track. The guide's boy rode in triumph on the seat beside the truckman;--a position of honor
and of excitement.

"Where's Lad?" asked the Mistress, a minute afterward, as she and the Master and the guide
made ready to get into the car and follow.

"Aboard the truck," responded Barret, in entire good faith. "Him and my boy got a-skylarkin'
here. So I sent Bud over to the truck with him."

"That's queer!" mused the Mistress. "Why, Laddie never condescends to play,--or 'skylark,'
as you call it,--with anyone except my husband or myself! He--"

"Never mind!" put in the Master. "We'll catch up with the truck before it's gone a mile. And
we can take Laddie aboard here, then. But I wonder he consented to go ahead, without us. That
isn't like Lad. Holiday-spirits, I suppose. This trip has made a puppy of him. A stately old
gentleman like Laddie would never think of rounding up bears and skunks, if he was at home."
As he talked, the car got under way; moving at rackety and racking "first speed" over hummock
and bump; as it joggled into the faint wheeltrack. By reason of this noise and of the Master's
stupid homily, none of the trio heard an amazed little bark, from the knoll-top, a hundred
yards behind them.

Nor did the car catch up with the truck. At the end of the first half mile, the horrible roadbed
began to take toll of the elderly tires. There were two punctures, in rapid succession. Then
came a blowout. And, at the bottom of the mountain a third puncture varied the monotony of
the ride. Thus, the truck reached the Place well ahead of the faster vehicle.

The Mistress's first question was for Lad. Terror seized upon the guide's boy, as he remembered
where he had left the dog. He glanced obliquely at the truckman, who had unloaded and who was
cranking.

"Now--" said the scared youth, glibly, avoiding his father's unsuspecting eye. "Now--now, Lad
he was settin' 'twixt Simmons and me. And he hops down and runs off around the house, towards--towards
the lake--soon as we stopped here. Most likely he was thirsty-like, or something."

The Mistress was busy with details of the car's unpacking. So she accepted the explanation.
It seemed probable that the long and dusty ride should have made Lad thirsty; and that after
his drink at the lake, he had made the rounds of the Place; as ever was his wont after his
few brief absences from home.

Not until dinnertime did she give another thought to her loved pet's absence. The guide and
his boy had long since departed, on the truck, for their ten-mile distant home. Nor, even yet,
did it occur to the Mistress to question the truth of the youngster's story. She merely wondered
why, for the first time in his life, Lad should absent himself at dinnertime from his time-honored
place on the dining-room floor, at the Master's left. And, amusedly, she recalled what her
husband had said of the stately dog's new propensity for mischief. Perhaps Lad was exploring
the friendly home-woods in search of a bear!

But when ten o'clock came and Lad did not seek the shelter of his "cave" under the music-room
piano, for the night, there was real worry. The Mistress went out on the veranda and sounded
long and shrilly upon the silver whistle which hung from her belt.

From puppyhood, Laddie had always come, at a sweeping gallop, on sound of this whistle. Its
notes could travel, through still air, for a half mile or more. Their faintest echoes always
brought the dog in eager response. But tonight, a dozen wait-punctuated blasts brought no other
response than to set the distant village dogs to barking.

The Mistress went back into the house, genuinely worried. Acting on a sudden idea, she called
up the Place's superintendent, at the gatelodge.

"You were down here when the truck came to the house this afternoon, weren't you?" she asked.

"Yes, ma'am," said the man. "I was waiting for it. Mike and I helped Simmons to unload."

"Did you see which way Lad went, when he jumped out of the truck?" pursued the Mistress. "Or
have any of you seen him since then?"

"Why, no, ma'am," came the puzzled answer. "I haven't seen him at all. I supposed he was in
the car with you, and that maybe he'd been in the house ever since. He wasn't on the truck:
That's one sure thing. I saw it stop; and I stayed till they finished emptying it. Lad wasn't
there."

There was a moment's pause. Then, the Mistress spoke again. Her voice slightly muffled, she said:

"Please find out if there is plenty of gas in my car;--enough to take it--say, forty miles.
Thank you."

"What on earth--?" began the Master, as his wife left the telephone and picked up an ulster.

"Laddie didn't come home on the truck," she made tremulous reply. "And he wasn't with us. He
hasn't come home all."

"He'll find his way, easily enough," returned the Master, albeit with no great assurance. "Lad's
found his way farther than that. He--"

"If he was going to find his way," interrupted the Mistress, "he'd have found it before now.
I know Laddie. So do you. He is up there. And he can't get back. He--"

"Nonsense!" laughed the Master. "Why, of course, he--"

"He is up there," insisted the Mistress, "and he can't get back. I know him well enough to
be, sure he'd have overtaken us, when we stopped all those times to fix the tires;--if he had
been left behind. And I know something else: When we started on, after that first puncture,
we were about half a mile below the knoll. And as we went around the bend, there was a gap
in the trees. I was looking back. For a second, I could see the lean-to, outlined ever so clearly
against the sky. And alongside of it was standing some animal. It was far away; and we passed
out of sight so suddenly, that I couldn't see what it was; except that it was large and dark.
And it seemed to be struggling to move from where it stood. I was going to speak to you about
it,--I supposed it was that black bear of Laddie's,--when we had the next puncture. And that
made me forget all about it;--till now. Of course, it never occurred to me it could be Lad.
Because Barret had said he was in the truck. But--but oh, it WAS Laddie! He--he was fastened,
or caught, in  some way. I know he was. Why, I could see him struggle to--"

"Come on!" broke in the Master, hustling into his mackinaw. "Unless you'll stay here, while I--"

"No," she protested. "I'm going. And I'm going because I'm thinking of the same thing that's
troubling you. I'm thinking of those forest fires and of what you said about the wind changing
and--"

"Come on!" repeated the Master; starting for the garage.

Which shows how maudlinly foolish two otherwise sane people can be; when they are lucky enough
to own such a dog as Sunnybank Lad. Naturally, the right course, at so cold and late an hour
of the autumn night, and after a long day of packing and motoring and unpacking, was to go
to bed; and to trust to luck that the wise old collie would find his way back again. Instead,
the two set off on a twenty-mile wildgoose chase, with worried faces and fast-beating hearts.
It did not occur to either of them to stay at home; or to send someone else on the long, frosty
drive in search of the missing dog.

Lad had watched the preparations for departure with increasing worry. Also, the abnormally
sensitive old fellow was wretchedly unhappy. Except at dog-shows, he had never before been
tied up. And at such shows, the Mistress and the Master were always on hand to pet and reassure
him. Yet, here, he had suffered himself to be tied by a smelly rope to the rotting post of
a lean-to, by a comparative stranger. And, in the open ground below the hillock, his deities
moved back and forth without so much as an upward glance at him.

Then, to his dismay, truck and car had made off down the mountainside; and he had been left
alone in his imprisonment. Except for a single unheard bark of protest, Lad made no effort
to call back the departing humans. Never before had they forsaken him. And he had full trust
that they would come back in a few minutes and set him free.

When the car halted, a half-mile below, Lad felt certain his faith was about to be justified.
Then, as it moved on again, he sprang to the end of his short rope, and tried to break free
and follow.

Then came the dying away of the chugging motor's echoes; and silence rolled up and engulfed
the wilderness hilltop.

Lad was alone. They had gone off and left him. They had with never a word of goodby or a friendly
command to watch camp until their return. This was not the dog's first sojourn in camp. And
his memory was flawless. Always, he recalled, the arrival and the loading of the truck and
the striking of tents had meant that the stay was over and that at the party was going home.

Home! The charm and novelty of the wilderness all at once faded. Lad was desperately lonely
and desperately unhappy. And his feelings were cruelly hurt; at the strange treatment accorded him.

Yet, it did not occur to him to seek freedom and to follow his gods to the home he loved. He
had been tied here, presumably by their order; certainly with their knowledge. And it behooved
him to wait until they should come to release him. He knew they would come back, soon or late.
They were his gods, his chums, his playmates. They would no more desert him than he would have
deserted them. It was all right, somehow. Only, the waiting was tedious!

With a tired little sigh, the collie curled up in a miserable heap on the stony ground, the
shortness of his tether making even this effort at repose anything but comfortable. And he waited.

A dog, that is happy and well, settles himself for a prolonged wait, by stretching out on his
side;--oftenest the left side; and by dropping off into slumber. Seldom, unless he be cold
or ill, does a big dog curl up into a ball, to rest. Nor is he thoroughly comfortable in such
a posture.

Lad was not comfortable. He was not resting. He was wretched. Nor did he try to snooze. Curled
in a compact heap, his sorrowful eyes abrim with sorrow, he lay scanning the bumpy mountainside
and straining his ears, for sign of the car's return. His breathing was not as splendidly easy
as usual. For, increasingly, that earlier twinge of acrid smoke-reek was tickling his throat.
The haze, that had hovered over the farther hilltops and valleys, was thickening; and it was
creeping nearer. The breath of morning breeze was stiffening into a steady wind; a wind that
blew strong from the west and carried on it the smell of forest fire.

Lad did not enjoy the ever-stronger smoke scent. But he gave only half-heed to it. His main
attention was centered on that winding wagon-track whence the car and the truck had vanished
into the lowlands. And, through the solemnly spent hours he lay forlornly watching it.

But, after sunset, the smoke became too pervasive to be ignored longer. It was not only stinging
his throat and lungs, but it was making his eyes smart. And it had cut off the view of all
save the nearer mountain-peaks.

Lad got to his feet; whining softly, under his breath. Ancestral instinct was fairly shouting
to his brain that here was terrible peril. He strained at his thick rope; and looked imploringly
down the wagon-road.

The wind had swelled into something like a gale. And, now, to Lad's keen ears came the far-off
snap and crack of a million dry twigs as the flame kissed them in its fast-crawling advance.
This sharper sound rose and fell, as a theme to the endless and slowly-augmenting roar which
had been perceptible for hours.

Again, Laddie strained at his heavy rope. Again, his smoke-stung eyes explored the winding
trail down the mountain. No longer was the trail so distinguishable as before. Not only by
reason of darkness, but because from that direction came the bulk of the eddying gusts of wind-driven
smoke.

The fire's mounting course was paralleling the trail; checked from crossing it only by a streambed
and an outcrop of granite which zigzagged upward from the valley. The darkness served also
to tinge the lowering sky to south and to westward with a steadily brightening lurid glare.
The Master had been right in his glum prophecy that a strong and sudden shift of wind would
carry the conflagration through the tinder-dry undergrowth and dead trees of that side of the
mountain, far faster than any body of fire-fighters could hope to check it.

The flame-reflection began to light the open spaces below the knoll, with increasing vividness.
The chill of early evening was counteracted waves of sullen heat, which the wind sent swirling
before it.

Lad panted; from warmth as much as from nervousness. He had gone all day without water. And
a collie, more perhaps than any other dog, needs plenty of fresh, cool water to drink; at any
and all times. The hot wind and the smoke were parching his throat. His thirst was intolerable.

Behind him, not very many yards away, was the ice-cold mountain lakelet in which so often he
had bathed and drunk. The thought of it made him hate the stout rope.

But he made no serious effort to free himself. He had been tied there,--supposedly by the Master's
command. And, as a well-trained dog, it was his place to stay where he was, until the Master
should free him. So, apart from an instinctive tug or two at his moorings, he submitted to
his fate.

But, in mid-evening, something occurred, to change his viewpoint, in this matter of nonresistance.

The line of fire, climbing the mountain toward him, had encountered a marshy stretch; where,
in normal weather, water stood inches deep. Despite the drought, there was still enough moisture
to stay the advance of the red line until the dampness could be turned to dust and tindery
vegetation. And, in the meanwhile, after the custom of its kind, the fire had sought to spread
to either side. Stopped at the granite-outcrop to the right, it had rolled faster through the
herbage to the left.

Thus, by the time the morass was dry enough for the flame to pass it, there was a great sickle
of crawling red fire to the left; which encircled a whole flank of the mountain and which was
moving straight upward.

Lad knew nothing of this; nor why the advance of the fire's direct line had been so long checked.
Nor did he know, presumably, that this sickle of flame was girdling the mountain-flank; like
a murderous net; hemming in all live things within the flaming arc and forcing them on in panic,
ahead of its advance. Perhaps he did not even note the mad scurryings in undergrowth and bramble,
in front of the oncoming blaze. But one thing, very speedily, became apparent to him:--

From out a screen of hazel and witch-elm (almost directly in front of the place where the truck,
that morning, had been loaded) crashed a right hideous object. By sight and by scent Lad knew
the creature for his olden foe, the giant black bear.

Growling, squealing, a dozen stinging fiery sparks sizzling through his bushy coat, the bear
tore his way from the hedge of thicket and out into the open. The fire had roused him from
his snug lair and had driven him ahead of it with a myriad hornets of flame, in a crazed search
for safety.

At sight of the formidable monster, Lad realized for the first time the full extent of his
own helplessness. Tethered to a rope which gave him scarce twenty-five inches of leeway, he
was in no fit condition to fend off the giant's assault.

He wasted no time in futile struggles. All his race's uncanny powers of resource came rushing
to his aid. Without an instant's pause, he wheeled about; and drove his keen teeth into the
rope that bound him to the post.

Lad did not chew aimlessly at the thick tether; nor throw away one ounce of useless energy.
Seizing the hempen strands, he ground his teeth deeply and with scientific skill, into their
fraying recesses. Thus does a dog, addicted to cutting his leash, attack the bonds which hold him.

It was Lad's first experience of the kind. But instinct served him well. The fact that the
rope had been left out of doors, in all weathers, for several years, served him far better.
Not only did it sever the more easily; but it soon lost the cohesion needed for resisting any
strong pull.

The bear, lurching half-blindly, had reeled out into the open, below the knoll. There, panting
and grunting, he turned to blink at the oncoming fire and to get his direction. For perhaps
a half-minute he stood thus; or made little futile rushes from side to side. And this breathing
space was taken up by Lad in the gnawing of the rope.

Then, while the collie was still toiling over the hempen mouthfuls, the bear seemed to recover
his own wonted cleverness; and to realize his whereabouts. Straight up the hillock he charged,
toward the lean-to; his splay feet dislodging innumerable surface stones from the rocky steep;
and sending them behind him in a series of tiny avalanches.

Lad, one eye ever on his foe, saw the onrush. Fiercely he redoubled his efforts to bite through
the rope, before the bear should be upon him. But the task was not one to be achieved in a
handful of seconds.

Moving with a swiftness amazing for an animal of his clumsy bulk, the bear swarmed up the hillock.
He gained the summit; not three yards from where Laddie struggled. And the collie knew the
rope was not more than half gnawed through. There was no further time for biting at it. The
enemy was upon him.

Fear did not enter the big dog's soul. Yet he grieved that the death-battle should find him
so pitifully ill-prepared. And, abandoning the work of self-release, he flung himself ragingly
at the advancing bear.

Then, two things happened. Two things, on neither of which the dog could have counted. The
bear was within a hand's breadth of him; and was still charging, headlong. But he looked neither
to right nor to left. Seemingly ignorant of Lad's presence, the huge brute tore past him, almost
grazing the collie in his insane rush; and sped straight on toward the lake beyond.

That was one of the two unforeseen happenings. The other was the snapping of the rotted rope,
under the wrench of Lad's furious leap.

Free, and with the severed rope's loop still dangling uselessly from around his shaggy throat,
the dog stood staring in blank amaze after his former adversary. He saw the bear reach the
margin of the icy lake and plunge nose deep into its sheltering waters. Here, as Bruin's instinct
or experience had foretold, no forest fire could harm him. He need but wallow there until the
Red Terror should have swept past and until the scorched ground should be once more cool enough
to walk on.

Lad turned again toward the slope. He was free, now, to follow the wagon track to the main
road and so homeward, guided perhaps by memory, perhaps by scent; most probably guided by the
mystic sixth sense which has more than once enabled collies to find their way, over hundreds
of miles of strange territory, back to their homes.

But, in the past few minutes, the fire's serpent-like course had taken a new twist. It had
flung volleys of sparks across the upper reach of granite rock-wall, and had ignited dry wood
and brier on the right hand side of the track. This, far up the mountain, almost at the very
foot of the rock-hillock.

The way to home was barred by a three-foot-high crackling fence of red-gold flame; a flame
which nosed hungrily against the barren rocks of the knoll-foot; as if seeking in ravenous
famine the fuel their bare surfaces denied it.

And now, the side of the hillock showed other signs of forest life. Up the steep slope thundered
a six-antlered buck, snorting shrilly in panic and flying toward the cool refuge of the little
lake.

Far more slowly, but with every tired muscle astrain, a fat porcupine was mounting the hill;
its claws digging frantically for foothold among the slippery stones. It seemed to flow, rather
than to run. And as it hurried on, it chuckled and scolded, like some idiot child.

A bevy of squirrels scampered past it. A long snake, roused from its stony winter lair, writhed
eerily up the slope, heedless of its fellow travelers' existence. A raccoon was breasting the
steep, from another angle. And behind it came clawing a round-paunched opossum; grinning from
the pain of sparks that were stinging it to a hated activity.

The wilderness was giving up its secrets, with a vengeance. And the Red Terror, as ever, was
enforcing a truce among the forest-folk; a truce bred of stark fear. One and all--of those
that had been aroused in time to get clear of the oncoming fiery sickle--the fugitives were
making for the cool safety of the lake.

Lad scarce saw or noted any of his companions. The road to home was barred. And, again, ancestral
instinct and his own alert wit came to his aid. Turning about, and with no hint of fear in
his gait or in the steady dark eyes, he trotted toward the lake.

Already the bear had reached its soothing refuge; and was standing hip deep in the black waters;
now and then ducking his head and tossing showers of cold spray over his scorched shoulder-fur.

Lad trotted to the brink. There, stooping--not fifty feet away from Bruin--he lapped thirstily
until he had at last drunk his fill. Then, looking back once in the direction of the fire-line,
he lay down, very daintily indeed, in shallow water; and prepared to enjoy his liberty. Scourged
by none of the hideous fear which had goaded his fellow fugitives, he watched with grave interest
the arrival of one after another of the refugees; as they came scurrying wildly down to the water.

Lad was comfortable. Here, the smoke-reek stung less acutely. Here, too, were grateful darkness,
after the torrid glare of the fire, and cold water and security. Here were also many diverting
creatures to watch. It would have been pleasant to go home at once. But, since that was out
of the question, there were far worse things than to lie interestedly at ease until the Master
should come for him.

The fire raged and flickered along the base of the bare rocky knoll; and, finding no path of
advance, turned back on itself, fire-fashion; seeking new outlet. The thin line of bushes and
other undergrowth at the hillock's foot were quickly consumed; leaving only a broad bed of
ember and spark. And the conflagration swept on to the left, over the only course open to it.
To the right, the multiple ridges of rock and the dearth of vegetation were sufficient "No
Thoroughfare" enforcement.

This same odd rock-formation had kept the wagon track clear, up to the twist where it bore
to leftward at the base of the knoll. And the Mistress and the Master were able to guide their
rattlingly protesting car in safety up the trail from the main road far below. The set of the
wind prevented them from being blinded or confused by smoke. Apart from a smarting of the eyes
and a recurrent series of heat waves, they made the climb with no great discomfort;--until
the final turn brought them to an abrupt halt at the spot where the wide swath of red coals
and flaming ashes marked the burning of the hillock foot bushes.

The Master jumped to earth and stood confronting the lurid stretch of ash and ember with, here
and there, a bush stump still crackling merrily. It was not a safe barrier to cross; this twenty-foot-wide
fiery stretch. Nor, for many rods in either direction, was there any way around it.

"There's one comfort," the Master was saying, as he began to explore for an opening in the
red scarf of coals, "the fire hasn't gotten up to the camp-site. He--"

"But the smoke has," said the Mistress, who had been peering vainly through the hazecurtain
toward the summit. "And so has the heat. If only--"

She broke off, with a catch in her sweet voice. And, scarce realizing what she did, she put
the silver whistle to her lips and blew a piercingly loud blast.

"What's that for?" asked the Master, crankily, worry over his beloved dog making his nerves
raw. "If Lad's alive, he's fastened there. You say you saw him struggling to get loose, this
morning. He can't come, when he hears that whistle. There's no sense in--How in blue blazes
he ever got fastened there,--if he really was,--is more than I can--"

"Hush!" begged the Mistress, breaking in on his grumbled monologue. "Listen!"

Out of the darkness, beyond the knoll-top, came the sound of a bark,--the clear trumpeting
welcome-bark which Lad reserved for the Mistress and the Master, alone; on their return from
any absence.

Through the night it echoed, gaily, defiantly; again and again; ringing out above the obscene
hiss and crackle and roar of the forest-fire. And at every repetition, it was nearer and nearer
the dumfounded listeners at the knoll foot.

"It's--it's Laddie!" cried the Mistress, in wondering rapture. "Oh, it's LADDIE!"

The Master, hearing the glad racket, did a thoroughly asinine thing. Drawing in his breath
and holding his coat in front of him, he prepared to make a dash through the wide smear of
embers, to the hilltop; where, presumably, Lad was still tied. But, before he could take the
first step, the Mistress stayed him.

"Look!" she cried, pointing to the hither side of the knoll; lividly bright in the ember-glow.

Down the steep was galloping at breakneck speed a great, tawny shape. Barking rapturously,--even
as  he had barked when first the whistle's blast had roused him from his lazy repose in the
lakeside shallows,--Lad  came whizzing toward the two humans who watched so incredulously his
wild approach.

The Master, belatedly, saw that the collie could not avoid crashing into the spread of embers;
and he opened his mouth to order Lad back. But there was not time.

For once, the wise dog took no heed of even the simplest caution. His lost and adored deities
had called him and were awaiting him. That was all Lad knew or cared. They had come back for
him. His horrible vigil and loneliness and his deadly peril were ended.

Too insanely happy to note where he was treading, he sprang into the very center of the belt
of smoldering coals. His tiny white forefeet--drenched with icy water--did not remain among
them long enough to feel pain. In two more bounds he had cleared the barrier and was dancing
in crazy excitement around the Mistress and the Master; patting at them with his scorched feet;
licking their eagerly caressing hands; "talking" in a dozen different keys of rapture, his
whimpers and growls and gurgles running the entire gamut of long-pent-up emotions.

His coat and his feet had, for hours, been immersed in the cold water of the lake. And, he
had fled through the embers at express-train speed. Scarce a blister marked the hazardous passage.
But Lad would not have cared for all the blisters and burns on earth. His dear gods had come
back to him,--even as he had known they would!

Once more,--and for the thousandth time--they had justified his divine Faith in them. Nothing
else mattered.

CHAPTER IX. Old  Dog; New Tricks

A mildewed maxim runs: "You can't teach an old dog new tricks."

Some proverbs live because they are too true to die. Others endure because they have a smug
sound and because nobody has bothered to bury them. The one about old dogs and new tricks belongs
in both categories. In a sense it is true. In another it is not.

To teach the average elderly dog to sit up and beg, or to roll over twice, or to do other of
the asinine things with which humans stultify the natural good sense of their canine chums,
is as hard as to teach a sixty-year-old grave-digger to become a musical composer.

But no dog with a full set of brains is ever past learning new things which are actually needful
for him to learn. And, sad to say, many an old dog, on his own account, picks up odd new accomplishments--exploits
which would never have occurred to him in his early prime. Nobody knows why. But it has happened,
numberless times.

And so it was with Sunnybank Lad.

Laddie had passed his twelfth birthday; when, by some strange freak, he brought home one day
a lace parasol. He had found it in the highroad, on his way back to the Place after a sedate
ramble in the forest. Now, it was nothing new for the great collie to find missing articles
belonging to the Mistress or to the Master. Every now and then he would lay at their feet a
tobacco pouch or a handkerchief or a bunch of keys that had been dropped, carelessly, somewhere
on the grounds; and which Lad recognized, by scent, as belonging to one of the two humans he loved.

These bits of treasure trove, he delighted in finding and restoring. Yes, and--though those
who had never seen him do this were prone to doubt it--he was certain to lay the recovered
object at the feet of whichever of the two had lost it. For instance, it never occurred to
him to drop a filmy square of lace-and-cambric at the muddied feet of the Master; or a smelly
old tobacco-pouch at the Mistress's little feet.

There was nothing miraculous about this knowledge. To a high-bred dog, every human of his acquaintance
has a distinctive scent; which cannot be mistaken. Lad used no occult power inn returning to
the rightful owner any article he chanced to find on lawn or on veranda.

But the lace parasol was different. That, presumably, had fallen from some passing motor-car,
bound for Tuxedo or for the Berkshires. It did not belong at the Place.

Lad happened to see it, lying there in the highway. And he brought it, forthwith, to the house;
carrying it daintily between his mighty jaws; and laying it on the living-room floor in front
of the astonished Mistress. Probably, he laid it before her, instead of before the Master,
because she was the first of the two whom he happened to encounter. It is doubtful if he realized
that a parasol is a purely feminine adjunct;--although the Mistress always declared he did.

She picked up the gift and looked it over with real admiration. It was a flimsily beautiful
and costly thing; whose ivory handle was deftly carven and set with several uncut stones; and
whose deep fringe of lace was true Venetian Point.

"Why, Laddie!" she exclaimed, in wondering delight. "Where in the world did you get this? Look!"
she went on, as her husband came in from his study. "See what Laddie brought me! I saw him
coming down the drive with something in his mouth. But I had no idea what it was. Isn't it
a beauty? Where do you suppose he--?"

"As long as motorists go around curves at forty miles an hour," decided the Master, "so long
their piled-up valuables are likely to be jostled out of the tonneau. I found a satchel, last
week, at the curve, up there, you remember; and a hat, the week before. What are you going
to do about this thing?"

"Oh," said the Mistress, with a sigh of renunciation, "I suppose we'll have to advertise it;
and watch the 'Lost and Found' columns, too. But--wouldn't it be glorious if nobody should
see our advertisement or--or ever advertise for it? It's so lovely! I hate to think it may
belong to somebody who can't appreciate it as I do."

Now, Laddie had lived on the Place for many more years than he could remember. And he had spent
the bulk of that time in studying the faces and the voices and the moods of these two people
whom he worshiped. Moreover, he had an intelligence that is not given to most dogs,--even to
collies--and a queer psychic twist to his brain that had puzzled his owners as much as it had
delighted them:

Watching the Mistress, now, with his classic head on one side and his deep-set dark eyes fixed
on her eager face, he saw that his roadway gift had made her very happy. Also, that her caressing
hand on his head showed pride in what he had done. And this, as ever, thrilled the old dog,
to the very soul.

He wagged his plumed tail, in gladness, and thrust his nose into her palm and began to "talk"
in gleeful treble. To none but the Mistress and the Master would Lad deign to "talk." And,
none listening to him could doubt he was trying to copy the human voice and human meanings.

"Dear old Laddie!" praised the Mistress, running her fingers through his lion-like ruff. "GOOD
Laddie! Thank you, ever so much! Nobody but a very, VERY wonderful collie named Lad could have
had the perfect taste to pick out such a parasol. And now we're going to have a whole handful
of animal crackers, for reward."

The crooningly sweet voice, the petting, the gift of animal crackers of which he was childishly
fond--all these delighted Lad beyond measure. And they confirmed him in the belief that he
had done something most laudable.

What he had done was to pick up a stray object, away from home, and bring it to the Mistress.
He knew that. And that was all he knew. But, having won high praise for the deed, he resolved
then and there to repeat it.

Which proves that old dogs can be taught new tricks. And which started all the trouble.

That afternoon, the Mistress and the Master went for a five-mile ramble through the woods and
over the mountains, back of the Place. With them went old Laddie, who paced gravely between
them. With them, also, went Bruce, the magnificent dark sable collie of kingly look and demeanor;
who was second only to Lad in human traits and second to no living animal in beauty. Bruce
was glorious to look upon. In physique and in character he had not a flaw. There was a strange
sweetness to his disposition that I have found in no other dog.

With Lad and Bruce, on this walk, raced Lad's fiery little golden son, Wolf.

Of old, Lad had led such runs. Now, advancing age and increased weight had begun to make him
chary of throwing away his fading energies. Wherefore, he walked between his two deities; and
let the two younger dogs do the galloping and rabbit chasing.

And he had his reward. For, as they neared the highroad on the way home, Wolf and Bruce chanced
to tree a squirrel. Thus, Lad was first to reach the road with the two humans. Suddenly, he
darted ahead of them; and snatched up from the wayside the somewhat worn case of a thermos
bottle which had been discarded there or had fallen from a car-seat. This he bore to the Mistress;
fairly vibrating with pride in his own exploit.

Noting his joy in the deed, she made much of the shabby gift; praising and thanking Lad, inordinately;
and forbearing to throw away the worn case until the collie was out of sight.

Of late, as Laddie began to show signs of age, she and the Master had taken to making more
and more of him; to atone for his growing feebleness and to anticipate the dark day which every
dog-owner must face;--the day  when his voice and his caress can no longer mean anything to
the pet who once rejoiced so utterly in them.

All of which went to confirm Lad in the natural belief that anything found on the road and
brought to the Mistress would be looked on with joy and would earn him much gratitude. So,--as
might a human in like circumstances,--he ceased to content himself with picking up trifles
that chanced to be lying in his path, in the highway, and fell to searching for such flotsam
and jetsam.

He began the hunt, next morning. Pacing gravely along the center of the road, he headed toward
the mile-distant village. By sheer luck, such few automobiles as chanced along, at that hour,
were driven by folk who had heart enough to slow down or to turn aside for the majestically
strolling old dog. To the end of his long life, Lad could never be made to understand that
he was not entitled to walk at will in the exact middle of the road. Perhaps his lofty assurance
in taking such a course made motorists check speed to spare him.

This morning, he had fared but a half-mile when he saw a car drawn up at the edge of the road,
beside a shaded bit of turf. Several people had just descended from it; and were making preparations
for an early picnic lunch. One of them had finished depositing a basket on the ground, at the
side of the car farthest from the strip of sward where the others were spreading a sea-rug
and setting an impromptu table.

The man put the basket down in the road. Then he dived back into the nether regions of the
machine for more provender. And he was engaged in this groping when Lad came in view, around
a bend.

The big collie saw the basket standing there, unprotected and, so far as he knew, ownerless.
Gravely he stepped forward, lifted the heavy receptacle by the handle and turned about with
it; still moving with dignified slowness. The table-setters were busy; and the car was between
him and them.

By the time the other member of the party succeeded in finding the things he was seeking under
the rear seat, Lad had rounded the bend and was out of sight. To this day, none of the motorists
has the remotest solution to the mystery of the vanished lunch.

Lad had not stolen the basket. He would have suffered himself to be cut in three, before sinking
to theft or to any other sneaking act. He had found a basket standing alone in the highroad,
several feet away from the nearest humans. He had no way of guessing it belonged to them. So
far as he was concerned, this was as much a lost article as had been the gorgeous parasol.
He had been praised to the skies for bringing the parasol and the thermos case to the Mistress.
He had every reason to expect the same meed of praise for this new gift.

Indeed, to Lad's way of thinking, he might well hope for even higher praise. For the parasol
had been an odorless and foolish thing of no apparent usefulness; while this basket exhaled
most heavenly scents of fried chicken and other delectable foods. Heavy as was the burden,
it did not occur to Lad to set it down. Fragrant as were its contents, it did not occur to
him to nose the cover off and sample them. There was no tinge of snooping in his make-up. No,
the basket was a gift for the Mistress. And as such he was bearing it home to her.

"See what Laddie brought me, this time!" cried the Mistress, coming into her husband's study,
a few minutes later, and holding forth the trophy. "It's full of food, too; and of course he
never touched a mouthful of it. But I gave him two of the frosted cakes, by way of reward.
He's ridiculously happy over them,--and over the fuss I made about the basket."

"H'm!" mused the Master, inspecting the present. "Jostled off the car-seat, as some fool of
a driver took the curve at top speed! Well, that same driver has paid for his recklessness,
by the loss of his lunch. It's funny, though--There's not a trace of mud or dust on this; and
even the food inside wasn't jostled about by the tumble. That curve is paying us big dividends,
lately. It's a pity no bullion trucks pass this way. Still, parasols and picnic lunches aren't
to be sneered at."

Lad was standing in the study doorway, eyes alight, tail waving. The Master called him over
and petted him; praising this newest accomplishment of his, and prophesying untold wealth for
the Place if the graft should but continue long enough.

There was something pathetic in dear old Laddie's pleasure over the new trick he had learned;
or so it seemed to the two people who loved him. And they continued to flatter him for it;--even
when, among other trophies, he dragged home a pickaxe momentarily laid aside by a road mender;
and an extremely dead chicken which a motor-truck wheel had flattened to waferlike thickness.

Which brings us, by degrees to the Rennick kidnaping case.

Claude Rennick, a New York artist of considerable means, had rented for the summer an ancient
Colonial farmhouse high among the Ramapo hills; some six miles north of the Place, There, he
and his pretty young wife and their six-months-old baby had been living for several weeks;
when, angered at a sharp rebuke for some dereliction in his work, Schwartz, their gardener,
spoke insultingly to Mrs. Rennick.

Rennick chanced to overhear. Being aggressively in love with his wife, he did not content himself
with discharging Schwartz. Instead, he thrashed the stalwart gardener, then and there; and
ended the drastic performance by pitching the beaten man, bodily, out of the grounds.

Schwartz collected his battered anatomy and limped away to his home in the hills just above.
And, that night, he called into council his two farmhand brothers and his wife.

Several characteristic plans of revenge were discussed in solemn detail. These included the
burning of the Rennick house or barn, or both; the shooting of Rennick from among the hillside
boulders as the artist sketched; of waylaying him on his walk to the post-office, by night,
and crippling him for life; and other suggestions equally dear to the hearts of rural malefactors.

But one plan after another was vetoed. To burn any of the property would cause Rennick nothing
worse than temporary annoyance; as he merely rented the farm. Daylight shooting was a dangerous
and uncertain job; especially since automobiles had opened up the district to constantly passing
outsiders. It was Schwartz himself who decided against waylaying his foe by night. He had too
recent memories of Rennick's physical prowess to care about risking a second dose of the same
medicine. And so on with the other proposals. One and all were rejected.

Then it was that Mrs. Schwartz hit upon an idea which promised not only punishment, but profit.
She had done washing for the Rennicks and she had access to the house. She proposed that they
steal the Rennick baby, on the first night when opportunity should offer; carry him to a car
the brothers were to have waiting; and thence take him to her sister in Paterson.

There, the youngster would be well cared for. In a family of not less than seven children,
the presence of an extra baby would not excite police query. Her sister had more than once
taken babies to board with her, during their mothers' temporary absence in service or in jail.
And the newcomer could pass readily as one of these.

Negotiations could set in; and, if care were taken, a reward of at least two thousand dollars
might be extracted safely from the frantic parents. Thus, the Rennicks could be made to sweat
blood and money too, in payment of the injuries wrought upon the aching frame of Schwartz.
At first, the three men sheered off from the plan. Kidnaping is a word with an ugly sound.
Kidnaping is a deed with ugly consequences. Kidnaping is a crime whose perpetrators can hope
for no atom of sympathy from anybody. Kidnaping is perilous, past words.

But, deftly, Mrs. Schwartz met and conquered the difficulties raised. In the first place, the
baby would come to no harm. Her sister would see to that. In the second, the matter of the
reward and of the return could be juggled so as to elude detectives and rural constables. She
had known of such a case. And she related the details;--clever yet utterly simple details,
and fraught with safety to all concerned;--details which, for that very reason, need not be
cited here.

Bit by bit, she went on with her outline of the campaign; testing each step and proving the
practicability of each.

The next Thursday evening, Rennick and his wife went, as usual, to the weekly meeting of a
neighborhood bridge club which they had joined for the summer. The baby was left in charge
of a competent nurse. At nine o'clock, the nurse went to the telephone in reply to a call purporting
to be from an attendant at a New York hospital.

This call occupied the best part of twenty minutes. For the attendant proceeded to tell her
in a very roundabout way that her son had been run over and had come to the hospital with a
broken leg. He dribbled the information; and was agonizingly long-winded and vague in answering
her volley of frightened questions.

Shaken between duty to her job and a yearning to catch the next train for town, the nurse went
back at last to the nursery. The baby's crib was empty.

It had been the simplest thing in the world for Mrs. Schwartz to enter the house by the unfastened
front door, while one of her husband's brothers held the nurse in telephone talk; and to go
up to the nursery, unseen, while the other servants were in the kitchen quarters. There she
had picked up the baby and had carried him gently down to the front door and out of the grounds.

One of Schwartz's brothers was waiting, beyond the gate; with a disreputable little runabout.
Presently, the second brother joined him. Mrs. Schwartz lifted the baby into the car. One of
the men held it while the other took his place at the steering wheel. The runabout had started
upon its orderly fourteen-mile trip to Paterson, before the panic stricken nurse could give
the alarm.

Mrs. Schwartz then walked toward the village, where her husband met her. The two proceeded
together to the local motion picture theater. There, they laughed so loudly over the comedy
on the screen that the manager had to warn them to be quieter. At once, the couple became noisily
abusive. And they were ordered ignominiously from the theater. There could scarcely have been
a better alibi to prove their absence of complicity in the kidnaping.

Meanwhile, the two brothers continued quietly on their journey toward Paterson. The baby slept.
His bearer had laid him softly on the floor of the car. A few drops of paregoric, administered
by Mrs. Schwartz as the child awoke for an instant on the way to the gate, insured sound slumber.
The joggling of the car did not rouse the tiny sleeper; as he lay snugly between the feet of
the man into whose care he had been given.

The first six miles of the easy journey were soon traversed. Then, with a pop and a dispiritedly
swishing sound, a rear tire collapsed. Out into the road jumped both men. Their nerves were
none too steady. And, already, in fancy they could hear all the police cars in New Jersey close
at their heels. It behooved them to change tires in a hurry, and to finish their nerve-twisting
trip.

The driver vaulted over the side nearest him and began to explore the under-seat regions for
a jack. The other man picked up the baby and hurried to the rear of the runabout to detach
the spare tire from its dusty rack. Manifestly, he could not unstrap the tire while he was
carrying a baby in his arms. So he set down his burden at the roadside, near him.

Then, still obsessed by fear of pursuit, he hit on a safer scheme. Picking up the sleeper again,
he carried the warm little bundle to the far side of the road, some thirty yards beyond, and
deposited it there, behind a dwarf alder bush which screened it from any stray automobilist
who might be passing. Thus, in case of pursuit, he and his brother would merely be changing
tires; and would know nothing of any missing baby.

Failing to find a jack under the seat, the driver climbed over into the adjoining field in
search of two or three big stones to serve the same purpose in holding up the axle. For several
minutes the men worked fast and tensely; blind and deaf to anything except the need of haste.

Thus it was that neither of them saw a tawny-and-snow collie,--huge and shaggy except for a
pair of absurdly tiny white forepaws,--come pacing majestically along the road from the direction
in which they were heading. The car lamps played but faintly upon the advancing Lad; for the
dimmers had been applied.

The big dog was taking his usual before-bedtime stroll. Of old, that evening stroll had been
confined to the Place's grounds, a quarter-mile beyond. The reasons that the eminent lady had to think
that crime will not be as powerful as the baritone in the eyes of a man; but surely I look like
any woman. Sarrió Lighthouse, eager to bite at all Cabin partners, relatives and friends had
taken for three or four months, with the wife of Marin. Surfaced all domestic secrets; life marriage,
dependency and degradation of Marin were put into a caricature. It had this purpose, in print,
all more or less humorous anecdotes running through the town, and some more discovered or invented
by the thugs editors. And To make matters worse, there was number of that newspaper which in
one way or another fails to take Wig mention of Mrs. Bridget, that that fact had become popular
Sarrio. Irritation, anger, hatred and desire for revenge that had awakened in this lady, nobody
can bear. Suffice it to say that when he saw any editor El Faro in the street, paled horribly
could scarcely prevent him throw the neck, like a rabid cat. Until then had been unable to
satisfy that craving devoured her revenge. So now, looking at Gonzalo, was lapped with joy, shiver
of longing, like a tiger prey currency. Taking advantage of a moment nobody spoke with him, went to
him very quietly and behind. And suddenly getting ahead, spit but he said these words:

- Gonzalo, how you're so colt? You're still the fun and laughter around the world. No one person
in the dance does not know that your wife is sleeping at this hour with the Duke Lathe.

The young man was as if he had been with a mallet on the forehead. Got thick white. He tried
to grab the infamous mask to tear the mask, but it was not possible. Dona Bridget had slipped away
like an eel through the crowd.

As there were many ladies in the same outfit, impossible to know who he was. Then he hurried
out of the room. The those words sounded in his head as fierce hammer. He feared falling. In
answered the threshold stupid smile Amicale phrases addressed to him. His uncle don Melchor,
seeing him so pale, came to him:

- What are you, Gonzalillo: Do ​​you feel bad?

- Yes ... I'll take a cup of tea.

- I'll walk.

- No, no, come back soon.

And ran, and left him standing near the door.

Down the stairs. Was found in the street without realizing what he did. Cold air of the night
cooled the head and called him back in their agreement. Suddenly he resolved leaving for Tejada.
Looked around the car and saw him no. Ramon was undoubtedly home yet. He checked his watch. There
were only two and a half.

He went a long way towards the house his father-in Rua Nueva, but
when he had taken a few steps, he said he was hatless and tails.

He returned to the Lyceum.

The first servant with whom he stumbled on the stairs, he asked he
came down his hat and coat.

When he got home, and Ramon was hooked.

- Ramon, you're going to
take now to Tejada at full speed.

The driver looked at him with surprise.

- Is Miss has gotten worse?

- I think so - said getting into the car before arriving .-- For ... in revolt the mill, right?

-
Miss scare fear, right? - Asked the driver with great penetration.

No answer.

The horses started to leak, causing the car to dance above the pavement
sharply uneven villa.

Gonzalo said not even the movement that shook him rudely viscera, and traffic on the road to
stop the population. All his attention was fixed, concentrated at
one point.

Could it be true or not? Unfortunately, not knowing himself by what, the belief that his wife was
cheating, he entered into his soul and that ruled it.

When Tejada had come to walk, for two short months, this conviction did not want enter. As much
as I did to convince the newspaper's accusation was true, his heart mind and refused to give consent.
Now the opposite happened. It was endless Exploring the prosecution persuade the hooded was
just vile expression of envy and spite in a hidden enemy, and although they could not help
but give her faith.

When the car stopped, did not realize the weather was walking, the same could be one day than
a minute. He left his dream and jumped from the carriage to the ground.

- Now turn around by the family - Ramon told - and do not say you have brought me. No need to scare.

He
walked slowly towards the gate of the park, which was about two hundred yards, while the car away
in the opposite direction. When he arrived, he touched with a trembling hand. Was open as before.
He felt a strange chill in the heart that made him stop. Entered so with caution, and wanted
to see if the key was inside to close, but not found. The night was not clear or dark, the sky
canopy. Menudísima water rained a very common in the country, which permeates the clothes
out as the fat, and even better. Made no sound falling on the trees and plants in the park, but
those, soaked and, when wounded by a gust of wind, leaving many drops
away, a real shower, which sounded on roads with mild and transient
ringing.

Gonzalo was agreed that he did not bring any weapons. But shrugged his shoulders with disdain, with
a confidence absolutely the case that if he was not going to lack. Looked around to see if he
discovered Duke's horse and did not see it. What I noticed was the shadow of a man slipping
to through the trees. She ran to her, but vanished instantly. Figúresele that Pachín was the servant,
and he fell into the suspicion that he was the traitor who opened
the door the Duke.

After that night they found his sister with him, had spent to find
out who it was that kept him safe indoors, accomplishing nothing.

In the less I could suspect was a servant as old as Pachín.

Then thought I could go to warn the traitors, and took over the direction
of Home to the race to win the hand.

Rose again from the vine to the room of his father.

This time, the balcony was received anything more.

Toes, but quickly, he went to the cabinet prey by an automatic movement,
as if, having found there to the Duke once was it was always necessary.

Great was his surprise to find it deserted and dark.

It was a moment rooted to the ground. But suddenly moved by an idea, ran to the master bedroom,
Ventura where he slept.

He found him locked inside.

Beckoned.

- Ventura, Ventura.

- Who's there? - His wife screamed in a voice strange, indefinable.

- It's me ... opens, it opens soon.

- I'm in bed.

- Never mind, opens soon.

- Let me get dressed.

- No, at once or break open the door.

- I, I go there.

So he waited a moment. Instead of the door, thought he heard that
opened the balcony room.

- Open, Ventura! - Shouted in fury.

And getting no answer, took a knock at the door with his powerful leg of Cyclops, and latch popped
loudly. The room was in darkness.

- Ventura, Ventura! - Screamed.

Nobody answered. He took a match with a trembling hand, and cast a crazy look around the room.
His wife was in his shirt tucked in a corner, pale and haggard. Gonzalo did not stop eyes on
her. He looked everywhere for something, and, perceiving the balcony ajar lunged at him. Opened.
Running through the trees he saw something white, the figure of a man in shirt sleeves. Not picked
up. He jumped from the chair into the garden and ran towards him as a arrow. But the man and
came to the iron door, opened it, disappeared.

Gonzalo followed soon after, but take a look around, saw him in the shadows, on horseback, jumping
into the race towards Nieva. He understood immediately that it was useless to pursue him. Encouraged,
however, a crazy hope, running back to the stables, took out her
beautiful saddle horse, and putting a brake, jumped on him bareback,
and also launched to escape Nieva the road.

He wore no spurs nor whip, but he obeyed his animal bravo voice,
or rather, its roar, and took a very violent escape.

The horse's eyes were the road. The front of him not receiving more
than a big black hole where I was going to sink.

The tall poplar trees that fringed the road, beside swift passing as black ghosts.

- Up, up, up!

The noble animal flying as drove the spur. So he ran for half an hour.

- It's impossible - he said .-- Your horse is even better than mine, and I had a front two
gun shots at least.

But when he was making this reflection, and hesitated to pull the
brake on the horse, passed through front of another, who was on one
side of the road, saddled riderless.

Stood firm to yours to work. Turned around to see what it was. Immediately recognized the pony
English Duke.

- Oh - roared - and you are mine!

Because then figured he had fallen.

Dismounted and recognized in the field, but it did not with the rider. Lit matches, and nothing,
found no trace of the Duke .-- "You may hear galloping my horse, and fearing that he reached,
has hidden around here "- is said. He jumped into the meadows, all scrupulously acknowledged
he could in light of the matches around and looked behind the bushes, peered into the undergrowth,
followed by a long way the bank of a stream that had left. But he ran out the match box before
he could faced its enemy. He turned desperate, bellowing with rage.

If indeed the Duke of lathes was around hidden, which must have good time past! He left the room
in search of a servant. Just came Pachín, with a light on hand with the broken face.

- The Master is running behind Mr. Duke in the garden - he said, his voice barely audible.

- Did you achieve? - Unfaithful wife asked, very pale, but quite the shock and response.

- Not really. Mr. Duke has the horses tied to the winery Anton. Front leads to to mount, and then
impossible to follow.

- Where do I hide me? If you re killing me.

- It is best to leave the house, Miss ... Come with me.

The young man followed him through the halls.

They descended the stairs, and out through the kitchen door. Pachín wanted to take the vicarage,
which was not far possession. When they left the garden, they saw Gonzalo running toward the house.
They only had the time needed to hide behind the Washingtonia near
the dining room.

From there they saw him enter the block, and go get the horse to
escape.

Ventura believed die of fright.

- No, no, I do not want to go home the cure. You can come back, and the priest can not defend
it ... It is an old man ... I want to go to Sarria.

- But, Miss, to Sarrió at this time and it was raining?

- Is not there a coach?

- There is a saloon, but lacks the horses ... You wait a bit, I put
the rods, and fasten the pony of Master Paul ... No answer for that
pull.

- Hurry, hurry!

At best he could, Pachín did what he said. Ventura got into the car and left. Though initially rebelled
a little pony, fantastic and on the road, with fondness Sarrió the block from where he was
generally went quite well.

The girl ordered raised to take her to Don Rudesindo, with whose lady remained fairly relationship.
Took refuge there, and was until his father, two or three days after
the event, took Madrid.

From there to Ocaña, one of which locked her convents, and remember
him by Gonzalo.

The great patrician had no great attachment, as we know, the positive religions, but "while
society did not have other means of coercion for the moral transgressions,
was forced to demand they go to the old social institutions were even
so flawed and weak as they.

"

Now back to Gonzalo. He spent all day locked in Tejada, in a state of agitation next to dementia.
The only person who dared to enter his room was Don Rosendo.

Although adorned with paraphrases and redundancies journalistic temperament credited writer,
learned to speak a language dignified and generous.

He would unconditionally from him, and cursed his daughter "whose
conduct unspeakable, bit (lately had taken him many fans Rosendo scuttle
the verb), while morality, law and social practices put it beyond
any legal protection and family.

" He proposed temporarily enclose in a convent. Gonzalo poor, depressed,
agitated, did not answer a word.

Escuchábale pacing the room diagonally, hands in his pockets, his eyes wet and left. Just head up
to say firmly:

- Take her with you wherever ... But you do not see my daughters! I do not want their lips touch.

At dusk a servant came to tell him that two men who had come on a reel, urgently wanted to speak.
Then the thought crossed him what that meant, and was quick to answer:

- To enter.

Nieva came two gentlemen. One was the Marquis de Soldat, middle-aged man, completely shaved, erysipelas
color and yellow teeth, who spoke very high to appear folksy, the
other a retired colonel, called Galarza, old, gray, and man of few
words and friends.

They came from the Duke to fix a serious issue, which had occurred last night, in the field of
honor. Lathe Duke would not let the lord of the Cuevas without compensation
owed him.

Escape on that occasion was not in their customs and character, and was worthy of their social
hierarchy. But at the same time, in the interest of Gonzalo and himself, demanded that all be carried
out with the greatest possible secrecy.

Gonzalo let her talk to the Marquis, which was neat to impertinence, without blinking, affecting
a peace that he felt.

- Okay - said when he finished .-- I accept, of course, the challenge.

I am ready to do As and when you like ... Is a bit unusual - he said,
after all, with giggling, ill-disguised anger that he commanded .--
A little that is original is Mr. Duke who challenges, I was the victim.

That act, in truth, rather than chivalry seems inspired fear.

- Lord
of Caves - angrily interrupted the former colonel - we can not allow
that in our presence you allow those findings.

Gonzalo distracted looked at him as if he had not heard, and continued:

-
Actually, I could and even should reject this challenge because it
is not customary for decent men will clap with the rogues, but they
bear a title of the kingdom.

- Lord of Caves - by mounting Galarza
uttered in anger - this is unbearable.

I do not tolerate that you talk that way.

- The Duke of lathes is a ganuja, you know - said fixed and staring
provocatively eyes.

The truth is that it would have been great temerity to mess with Gonzalo
at that moment.

Galarza turned pale, and he said, rising:

- Are you at home. I withdraw.
- Do you want to tell you to go out? - Impetuously exclaimed, rising
too.

- Gentlemen - hoarse voice cried the marquis, - a bit of peace.
Galarza, you have no right irritated. The kind of offense that we
sponsored has made the gentleman (and I am sorry to refer to it),
I apologize for overstepping the appreciation of his character. I
think when accepting the duel, and attenuates quite all sense of his
words, daughters of the natural irritation that is ...

Gonzalo was
by dropping the table before him, the fool conciliator. Remained still
and silent, however, because he wanted to be fiery and face to face
with Duke. The former colonel sat down to entreaties of his companion.
For fear of his temper irritable or revenge, no further word.

Gonzalo
said he would appoint two friends to understand them, which would
the next day morning at Nieva. Therefore could become this course
people, unless that might make him the honor of being guests that
night ...

Friends of Duke thanked: be prepared to leave. When they
were standing Gonzalo said, addressing, of course, but the Marquis.

-
I wish both of you hold conferences on the occasion of this launch,
as the set it was made in snow ... Because - he added with emphasis,
half sarcastic, half tenderly, - for more than you would seem strange
in this house there are still people who love me.

The sponsors promised
to please him, and withdrew turning over Nieva.

Cecilia from the
saw and began to haunt his brother's room, not daring to enter. East
to go in search of Pablito, it stumbled in the hallway, which was
half in darkness. The young man suddenly grabbed her hand, squeezed
it hard, and sticking a longing look, said

- Do not gowns, Gonzalo.

The
forces had to hide, crying with contempt:

- I had to beat me with
that bastard! Never! ... I will kill you where you are ...

He believed
in his words, but returned to tell an agitated voice:

- Do it for
your innocent daughters.

- For my daughters ... and for you - said
affectionately stroking his face with his hand. And he hastened away,
because emotion choked him.

When she found Paul she said quietly:

-
You I can speak frankly. You are a man and you know that there are
things in life inevitable. Just left the sponsors of the Duke, and
I just fool promising Cecilia do not beat me. As you understand, that's
impossible ...

- Why? ... No: you should not beat you ... I am, I
who has to kill that miserable! - Said the beautiful young man passionately.

-
Thanks, Paul, thanks - seriously Gonzalo replied shakily, squeezing
hand with effusion .-- That can not be.

Locomotive engineers say a cow on a track is far less perilous to an oncoming train than is
a pig. The former can be lifted, by the impact, and flung to one side. A pig, oftener than
not, derails the engine. Standing with the bulk of its weight close to the ground, it is well-nigh
as bad an obstacle to trains as would be a boulder of the same size. Lad had never met any
engineers. But he had identically their opinion of pigs.

In all his long life, the great collie had never known fear. At least, he never had yielded
to it. Wherefore, in the autumns, he had attacked with gay zest such of Titus Romaine's swine
as had found their way through the fence.

But, nowadays, there was little enough of gay zest about anything Laddie did. For he was old;--very,
very old. He had passed the fourteenth milestone. In other words, he was as old for a dog as
is an octogenarian for a man.

Almost imperceptibly, but to his indignant annoyance, age had crept upon the big dog; gradually
blurring his long clean lines; silvering his muzzle and eyebrows; flecking his burnished mahogany
coat with stipples of silver; spreading to greater size the absurdly small white forepaws which
were his one gross vanity; dulling a little the preternaturally keen hearing and narrowing
the vision.

Yes, Lad was old. And he was a bit unwieldy from weight and from age. No longer could he lead
Wolf and Bruce in the forest rabbit chases. Wherefore he stayed at home, for the most part
and seldom strayed far from the Mistress and the Master whom he worshiped.

Moreover, he deputed the bulk of trespass-repelling to his fiery little son, Wolf; and to the
graver and sweeter Bruce;--"Bruce, the Beautiful."

Which brings us by needfully prosy degrees to a morning, when two marauders came to the Place
at the same time, if by different routes. They could not well have come at a more propitious
time, for themselves; nor at a worse time for those whose domain they visited.

Bruce and Wolf had trotted idly off to the forest, back of the Place, for a desultory ramble
in quest of rabbits or squirrels. This they had done because they were bored. For, the Mistress
and the Master had driven over for the morning mail; and Lad had gone with them, as usual.
Had it been night, instead of morning, neither Wolf nor Bruce would have stirred a step from
the grounds. For both were trained watchdogs, But, thus early in the day, neither duty nor
companionship held them at home. And the autumn woods promised a half-hour of mild sport.

The superintendent and his helpers were in the distant "upper field," working around the roots
of some young fruit trees. But for the maids, busy indoors, the Place was deserted of human
or canine life.

Thus, luck was with the two intruders.

Through the fence-gap in the oak-grove, bored Titus Romaine's hugest and oldest and crankiest
sow. She was in search of acorns and of any other food that might lie handy to her line of
march. In her owner's part of the grove, there was too much competition, in the food-hunt,
from other and equally greedy pigs of the herd. These she could fight off and drive from the
choicest acorn-hoards. But it was easier to forage without competition.

So through the gap she forced her grunting bulk; and on through the Place's half of the oak-grove.
Pausing now and then to root amid the strewn leaves, she made her leisurely way toward the
open lawn with its two-hundred-year-old shade-oaks, and its flower-borders which still held
a few toothsome bulbs.

The second intruder entered the grounds in much more open fashion. He was a man in the late
twenties; well-set up, neatly, even sprucely, dressed; and he walked with a slight swagger.
He looked very much at home and very certain of his welcome.

A casual student of human nature would have guessed him to be a traveling salesman, finely
equipped with nerve and with confidence in his own goods. The average servant would have been
vastly impressed with his air of self assurance; and would have admitted him to the house,
without question. (The long-memoried warden of Auburn Prison would have recognized him as Alf
Dugan, one of the cleverest automobile thieves in the East.)

Mr. Dugan was an industrious young man; as well as ingenious. And he had a streak of quick-witted
audacity which made him an ornament to his chosen profession. His method of work was simple.
Coming to a rural neighborhood, he would stop at some local hotel, and, armed with clever patter
and a sheaf of automobile insurance documents, would make the rounds of the region's better-class
homes.

At these he sold no automobile insurance; though he made seemingly earnest efforts to do so.
But he learned the precise location of each garage; the cars therein; and the easiest way to
the highroad, and any possible obstacles to a hasty flight thereto. Usually, he succeeded in
persuading his reluctant host to take him to the garage to look at the cars and to estimate
the insurable value of each. While there, it was easy to palm a key or to get a good look at
the garage padlock for future skeleton-key reference; or to note what sort of car-locks were used.

A night or two later, the garage was entered and the best car was stolen. Dugan, like love,
laughed at locksmiths.

Sometimes,--notably in places where dogs were kept,--he would make his initial visit and then,
choosing a time when he had seen some of the house's occupants go for a walk with their dogs,
would enter by broad daylight, and take a chance at getting the car out, unobserved. If he
were interrupted before starting off in the machine, why, he was that same polite insurance
aunt who had come back to revise his estimate on the premium needed for the car; and was taking
another look at it to make certain. Once in the driver's seat and with the engine going, he
had no fear of capture. A whizzing rush to the highroad and down it to the point where his
confederate waited with the new number-plates; and he could snap his fat fingers at pursuit.

Dugan had called at the Place, a week earlier. He had taken interested note of the little garage's
two cars and of the unlocked garage doors. He had taken less approving note of the three guardian
collies: Lad, still magnificent and formidable, in spite of his weight of years;--Bruce, gloriously
beautiful and stately and aloof;--young Wolf, with the fire and fierce agility of a tiger-cat.
All three had watched him, grimly. None had offered the slightest move to make friends with
the smooth-spoken visitor. Dogs have a queerly occult sixth sense, sometimes, in regard to
those who mean ill to their masters.

This morning, idling along the highroad, a furlong from the Place's stone gateway, Dugan had
seen the Mistress and the Master drive past in the smaller of the two cars. He had seen Lad
with them. A little later, he had seen the men cross the road toward the upper field. Then,
almost on the men's heels, he had seen Bruce and Wolf canter across the same road; headed for
the forest. And Dugan's correctly stolid face rippled into a pleased smile.

Quickening his pace, he hurried on to the gateway and down the drive. But, as he passed the
house on his way to the garage where stood the other and larger car, he paused. Out of an ever-vigilant
eye-corner, he saw an automobile turn in at the gateway, two hundred yards up the wooded slope;
and start down the drive.

The Mistress and the Master were returning from the post office.

Dugan's smile vanished. He stopped in his tracks; and did some fast thinking. Then, mounting
the veranda steps, he knocked boldly at a side door; the door nearest to him. As the maids
were in the kitchen or making up the bedrooms, his knock was unheard. Half hidden by the veranda
vines, he waited.

The car came down the driveway and circled the house to the side farthest from Dugan. There,
at the front door, it halted. The Mistress and Lad got out. The Master did not go down to the
garage. Instead, he circled the house again; and chugged off up the drive; bound for the station
to meet a guest whose train was due in another ten minutes. Dugan drew a long breath; and swaggered
toward the garage. His walk and manner had in them an easy openness that no honest man's could
possibly have acquired in a lifetime.

The Mistress, deposited at the front veranda, chirped to Lad; and started across the lawn toward
the chrysanthemum bed, a hundred feet away.

The summer's flowers were gone--even to the latest thin stemmed Teplitz rose and the last stalk
of rose-tinted cosmos. For dining table, now, and for living-room and guest rooms, nothing
was left but the mauve and bronze hardy chrysanthemums which made gay the flower border at
the crest of the lawn overlooking the lake. Thither fared the Mistress, in search of blossoms.

Between her and the chrysanthemum border was a bed of canvas. Frost had smitten the tall, dark
stems; leaving only a copse of brown stalks. Out of this copse, chewing greedily at an uprooted
bunch of canna-bulbs, slouched Romaine's wandering sow. At, sight of the Mistress, she paused
in her leisurely progress and, with the bunch of bulbs still hanging from one corner of her
shark-mouth, stood blinking truculently at the astonished woman.

Now, Lad had not obeyed the Mistress's soft chirp. It had not reached his dulling ears;--the
ears which, of old, had caught her faintest whisper. Yet, he would have followed her, as ever,
without such summons, had not his nostrils suddenly become aware of an alien scent.

Lad's sense of smell, like his hearing, was far less keen than once it had been. But, it was
still strong enough to register the trace of intruders. His hackles bristled. Up went the classically
splendid head, to sniff the light breeze, for further information as to the reek of pig and
the lighter but more disquieting scent of man.

Turning his head, to reinforce with his near-sighted eyes the failing evidence of his nostrils,
he saw the sow emerge from the canna-clump. He saw, too--or he divined--the look in her pale
little red-rimmed eyes; as they glared defiantly at the Mistress. And Lad cleared the porch
steps at one long leap.

For the instant, he forgot he was aged and stout and that his joints ached at any sudden motion;
and that his wind and his heart were not what they had been;--and that his once-terrible fangs
were yellowed and blunt; and that his primal strength was forever fled. Peril was facing the
Mistress. That was all Laddie knew or cared. With his wonted trumpet-bark of challenge, he
sped toward her.

The Mistress, recovering from her surprise at the apparition of the huge pig, noticed the bunch
of canna-bulbs dangling from the slobbery lips. This very week all the bulbs were to have been
dug up and taken into the greenhouse, for the winter. Angered,--with all a true flower-lover's
indignation,--at this desecrating of one of her beloved plants, she caught up a stick which
had been used as a rose-prop. Brandishing this, and crying "Shoo!" very valiantly indeed, she
advanced upon the sow.

The latter did not stir; except to lower her bristling head an inch or so; and let drop the
bunch of bulbs from between her razor-teeth. The Mistress advanced another step; and struck
at the beast.

The sow veered, to avoid the blow; then, with ludicrous yet deadly swiftness, wheeled back
and charged straight for the woman.

Many a child and not a few grown men and women have gone down under such murderous charges;
to be trampled and gouged and torn to death, before help could come. But the slaveringly foul
jaws did not so much as touch the hem of the Mistress's dress.

Between her and the sow flashed a swirl of mahogany-and-snow. Lad, charging at full speed,
crashed into the forward-lurching six-hundredweight of solid flesh and inch-thick hide.

The impact bowled him clean over, knocking the breath out of him. Not from choice had he made
such a blundering and un-collielike attack. In other days, he could have flashed in and out
again, with the speed of light; leaving his antagonist with a slashed face or even a broken
leg, as souvenir of his assault. But those days were past. His uncannily wise brain and his
dauntless courage were all that remained of his ancient prowess. And this brain and pluck told
him his one chance of checking the sow's charge on the Mistress was to hurl himself full at her.

His impetus, which had knock him flat, scarce slowed down the pig's lurching rush; scarce enabled
the frightened Mistress to recoil a step. Then, the sow was lunging at her again, over the
prostrate dog's body.

But, even as he fell, Lad had gathered his feet under him. And the shock which knocked him
breathless did not make the wise brain waver in its plan of campaign. Before he sought to rise,
up drove his bared teeth, at the sow that was plunging across him. And those teeth clove deep
into her pinkish nostrils;--well-nigh the only vulnerable spot, (as Lad knew) in her bristling
pigskin armor.

Lad got his grip. And, with all his fragile old strength, he hung on; grinding the outworn
fangs further and further into the sensitive nose of his squealing foe.

This stopped the sow's impetuous charge; for good and all. With a heavy collie hanging to one's
tortured nose and that collie's teeth sunk deep into it, there is no scope for thinking of
any other opponent. She halted, striking furiously, with her sharp cloven fore-hoofs, at the
writhing dog beneath her.

One ferociously driving hoof cut a gash in Lad's chest. Another tore the skin from his shoulder.
Unheeding, he hung on. The sow braced herself, solid, on outspread legs; and shook her head
and forequarters with all her muscular might.

Lad was hurled free, his weakened jaws failing to withstand such a yank. Over and over he rolled,
to one side; the sow charging after him. She had lost all interest in attacking the Mistress.
Her flaming little brain now held no thought except to kill and mangle the dog that had hurt
her snout so cruelly. And she rushed at him, the tushes glinting from under her upcurled and
bleeding lips.

But, the collie, for all his years and unwieldiness, was still a collie. And, by the time he
stopped rolling, he was scrambling to his feet. Shrinking quickly to one side, as the sow bore
down upon him, he eluded her rush, by the fraction of an inch; and made a wolflike slash for
her underbody, as she hurtled by.

The blunted eyetooth made but a superficial furrow; which served only to madden its victim
still further. Wheeling, she returned to the attack. Again, with a ghost of his old elusive
speed; Laddie avoided her rush, by the narrowest of margins; and, snapping furiously, caught
her by the ear.

Now, more than once, in other frays, Lad had subdued and scared trespassing pigs by this hold.
But, in those days, his teeth had been keen and his jaw strong enough to crack a beef bone.
Moreover, the pigs on which he had used it to such effect were not drunk with the lust of killing.

The sow squealed, afresh, with pain; and once more braced herself and shook her head with all
her might: Again, Lad was flung aside by that shake; this time with a fragment of torn ear
between his teeth.

As she drove slaveringly at him once more, Lad swerved and darted in; diving for her forelegs.
With the collie, as with his ancestor, the wolf, this dive for the leg of an enemy is a favorite
and tremendously effective trick in battle.  Lad found his hold, just above the right pastern.
And he exerted every atom of his power to break the bone or to sever the tendon.

In all the Bible's myriad tragic lines there is perhaps none other so infinitely sad,--less
for its actual significance than for what it implies to every man or woman or animal, soon
or late,--than that which describes the shorn Samson going forth in jaunty confidence to meet
the Philistines he so often and so easily had conquered:

"He wist not that the Lord was departed from him!"

To all of us, to whom the doubtful blessing of old age is granted, must come the black time
when we shall essay a task which once we could accomplish with ease;--only to find its achievement
has passed forever beyond our waning powers. And so, this day, was it with Sunnybank Lad.

Of yore, such a grip as he now secured would have ham strung or otherwise maimed its victim
and left her wallowing helpless. But the dull teeth merely barked the leg's tough skin. And
a spasmodic jerk ripped it loose from the dog's hold.

Lad barely had time to spring aside, to dodge the wheeling sow. He was panting heavily. His
wounds were hurting and weakening him. His wind was gone. His heart was doing queer things
which made him sick and dizzy. His strength was turning to water. His courage alone blazed
high and undimmed.

Not once did it occur to him to seek safety in flight. He must have known the probable outcome.
For Lad knew much. But the great heart did not flinch at the prospect. Feebly, yet dauntlessly,
he came back to the hopeless battle. The Mistress was in danger. And he alone could help.

No longer able to avoid the rushes, he met some of them with pathetically useless jaws; going
down under others and rising with ever greater slowness and difficulty. The sow's ravening
teeth found a goal, more than once, in the burnished mahogany coat which the Mistress brushed
every day with such loving care. The pronged hoofs had twice more cut him as he strove to roll
aside from their onslaught after one of his heavy tumbles.

The end of the fight seemed very near. Yet Lad fought on. To the attack, after each upset or
wound, he crawled with deathless courage.

The Mistress, at Lad's first charge, had stepped back. But, at once she had caught up again
the stick and belabored the sow with all her frail muscular might. She might as well have been
beating the side of a concrete wall. Heedless of the flailing, the sow ignored her; and continued
her maddened assault on Lad. The maids, attracted by the noise, crowded the front doorway;
clinging together and jabbering. To them the Mistress called now for the Master's shotgun,
from the study wall, and for a handful of shells.

She kept her head; though she saw she was powerless to save the dog she loved. And her soul
was sick within her at his peril which her puny efforts could not avert.

Running across the lawn, toward the house, she met half way the maid who came trembling forth
with the gun and two shells. Without stopping to glance at the cartridges,--nor to realize
that they were filled with Number Eight shot, for quails,--she thrust two of them into the
breech and, turning, fired pointblank at the sow.

Lad was down again; and the sow,--no longer in a squealing rush, but with a new cold deadliness,--was
gauging the distance to his exposed throat. The first shot peppered her shoulder; the tiny
pellets scarce scratching the tough hide.

The Mistress had, halted, to fire. Now, she ran forward: With the muzzle not three feet from
the sow's head, she pulled trigger again.

The pig's huge jaws road opened with deliberate width. One forefoot was pinning the helplessly
battling dog to earth, while she made ready to tear out his throat.

The second shot whizzed about her head and face. Two or three of the pellets entered the open
mouth.

With a sound that was neither grunt nor howl, yet which savored of both, the sow lurched back
from the flash and roar and the anguishing pain in her tender mouth. The Mistress whirled aloft
the empty and useless gun and brought it crashing down on the pig's skull. The carved mahogany
stock broke in two. The jar of impact knocked the weapon from its wielder's numbed fingers.

The sow seemed scarce to notice the blow. She continued backing away; and champed her jaws
as if to locate the cause of the agony in her mouth. Her eyes were inflamed and dazed by the
flash of the gun.

The Mistress took advantage of the moment's breathing space to bend over the staggeringly rising
Lad; and, catching him by the ruff, to urge him toward the house. For once, the big collie
refused to obey. He knew pig nature better than did she. And he knew the sow was not yet finished
with the battle. He strove to break free from the loved grasp and to stagger back to his adversary.

The Mistress, by main strength, drew him, snarling and protesting, toward the safety of the
house. Panting, bleeding, reeling, pitiably weak, yet he resisted the tender urging; and kept
twisting his bloody head back for a glimpse of his foe. Nor was the precaution useless. For,
before the Mistress and her wounded dog were half-way across the remaining strip of lawn, the
sow recovered enough of her deflected wits and fury to lower her head and gallop down after them. No, could not be a
jorguina. He had spoken the language of the mystics and without filters, spells, no ointments, the
mere contemplation, just go back to the higher regions of ecstasy.

He called several times: - Aixa! Aixa!

For, dulled as were his ears, they were still keener than any human's. And they had caught
the sound of eight flying paws amid the dead leaves of the drive. Wolf and Bruce, coming home
at a leisurely trot, from their ramble in the forest, had heard the two reports of the shotgun;
and had broken into a run. They read the meaning in Lad's exhausted bark, as clearly as humans
might read a printed word. And it lent wings to their feet.

Around the corner of the house tore the two returning collies. In a single glance, they seemed
to take in the whole grisly scene. They, too, had had their bouts with marauding swine; and
they were still young enough to enjoy such clashes and to partake of them without danger.

The sow, too blind with pain and rage to know reinforcements were coming to the aid of the
half-dead hero, tore forward. The Mistress, with both hands, sought to drag Lad behind her.
The maids screeched in plangent chorus.

Then, just as the sow was launching herself on the futilely snapping Lad, she was stupidly
aware that the dog had somehow changed to three dogs. One of these three the Mistress was still
holding. The two others, with excellent teamwork, were assailing the sow from opposite sides.

She came to a sliding stop in her charge; blinking in bewildered fury.

Bruce had caught her by the torn left ear; and was keeping easily out of her way, while he
inflicted torture thereon. Wolf, like a furry whirlwind, had stopped only long enough to slash
her bleeding nose to the bone; and now was tearing away at her hind leg in an industrious and
very promising effort to hamstring her. In front, Lad was still straining to break the Mistress's
loving hold; and to get at his pestered enemy. The variety garments
that are presented, and the original and even bizarre in some of them, called wide attention of
people and dazzled Venturita. In fact, if she dressed for the Duke, also wore it for her.

Vaguely first, more precisely later, the youngest daughter of Don Rosendo thought that friendship
tycoon could be harnessed, not only to increase the political influence of his father population,
but also to polish and shine to the family. For example, a large cross ... Those who had managed
to treatment of Excellence. If your father was a Sir, lose that character of a merchant in cod,
which she twitched. Why not had to give?

But she was going too fast and too blindly to swerve. And she met it, headlong; throwing her
vast weight forward in an attempt to smash through it. At the same time, Wolf and Bruce left
off harrying her flanks and sprang aside.

Dugan had reached the garage unseen. There, he had backed out the car, by hand; shoving it
into the open, lest the motor-whirr give premature announcement of his presence. Then, as he
boarded the machine and reached for the self-starter, all bedlam broke loose, from somewhere
in the general direction of the house, fifty yards away.

Dugan, glancing up apprehensively, beheld the first phases of the fight. Forgetting the need
of haste and of secrecy, he sat there, open-mouthed, watching a scrimmage which was beyond
all his sporting experience and which thrilled him as no prize-fight had ever done. Moveless,
wide eyed, he witnessed the battle.

But the arrival of the two other dogs and the flight of the sow roused him to a sense of the
business which had brought him thither. The Mistress and the maids had no eyes or ears for
anything but the wounded Lad. Dugan knew he could, in all probability, drive to the main road
unnoticed; if he should keep the house between him and the women.

He pressed the self-starter; threw off the brake and put the car into motion. Then, as he struck
the level stretch of driveway, back of the house, he stepped hard on the accelerator. Here,
for a few rods, was danger of recognition; and it behooved him to make speed. He made it.

Forward bounded the car and struck a forty-mile gait. And around the house's far corner and
straight toward Dugan came flying the sow and the two collies. The dogs, at sight of the onrushing
car, sprang aside. The sow did not.

In the narrow roadway there was no room for Dugan to turn out. Nor did he care to. Again and
again he had run over dogs, without harming his car or slackening its pace. And of course it
would be the same with a pig. He stepped harder on the accelerator.

Alf Dugan came to his senses in the hospital ward of the Paterson jail. He had not the faintest
idea how he chanced to be there. When they told him the car had turned turtle and that he and
a broken-necked pig had been hauled out of the wreckage, he asked in all honesty:

"What car? What pig? Quit stringing me, can't you? Which of my legs did you say is bust, and
which one is just twisted? They both feel as bad as each other. How'd I get here, anyhow? What
happened me?"

When the vet had worked over Lad for an hour and had patched him up and had declared there
was no doubt at all about his getting well, Wolf and Bruce were brought in to see the invalid.
The Mistress thought he might be glad to see them.

He was not. 

Once in the street, the daughter of Don Alonso apoyose against the back of the chair to counteract swaying,
and the slow pace of silleteros, crossed into the crowd, stiff and showy as an image, pious
mouth, eyes Recoletos.

He had borne the brunt of the fight. And, at the last, these lesser dogs had won the victory
without his aid. Still worse, his beloved Mistress,--for whom he had so blithely staked his
aged life,--the Mistress had held him back by force from joining in the delirious last phases
of the battle. She had made him stand tamely by, while others finished the grand work he had begun.

It was not fair. And Laddie let everyone in sight know it was not fair; and that he had no
intention of being petted into a good humor.

Still, when, by and by, the Mistress sat down on the floor beside him and told him what a darling
and wonderful and heroic dog he was and how proud she felt of his courage, and when her dear
hand rumpled the soft hair behind his ears,--well, somehow Lad found himself laying his head
in her lap; and making croony low sounds at her and pretending to bite her little white hand. Don Pedro de Valderrábano, sly old gentleman, was walking alone, watching mechanically
furniture and looking at the figures of the drapery. Other gentlemen spoke in Standing by
the windows, through which came a dim light and dim. And now, in the late twilight of his
years, Time's hand rested on him as lovingly as did the Mistress's. He had few of the distressing
features of age.

True; his hearing was duller than of yore. The magnificent body's lines were blurred with flesh.
The classic muzzle was snow white; as were the lashes and eyebrows. And the once mighty muscles
were stiff and unwieldy. Increasing feebleness crept over him, making exercise a burden and
any sudden motion a pain. The once trumpeting bark was a hollow echo of itself.

