During the whole Russian campaign, the Emperor was nearly always badly lodged.  It was necessary,
however, to accommodate himself to circumstances; though this was a somewhat difficult task
to those who were accustomed to lodge in palaces.  The Emperor accepted the situation bravely,
and all his followers consequently did the same.  In consequence of the system of incendiarism
adopted as the policy of Russia, the wealthy part of the population withdrew into the country,
abandoning to the enemy their houses already ruined.  In truth, on the whole road leading to
Moscow, with the exception of a few unimportant towns, the dwellings were very wretched; and
after long and fatiguing marches, we were very happy if we found even a hut at the place the
Emperor indicated as headquarters.  The owners of these miserable hovels on quitting them left
there sometimes two or three seats and wooden beds, in which were an abundant supply of vermin
that no invasion could drive out.  The least filthy place was chosen, which was usually the
most airy; and we knew when the cold came, icy breezes would not fail us.  When the location
had been chosen, and we decided to halt there, a carpet was spread on the ground, the Emperor's
iron bedstead set up, and a dressing-case containing everything necessary in a bedroom placed
open on a small table.  This case also contained a breakfast service for several persons, which
luxury was displayed when the Emperor entertained his marshals.  It was necessary, at all events,
to bring ourselves down to the habits of the humblest citizens of the province.  If the house
had two rooms, one served as sleeping and dining room, the other for his Majesty's cabinet.
The box of books, geographical maps, the portfolio, and a table covered with green cloth, were
the entire furniture.  This was also the council chamber; and from these beggarly huts were
sent forth those prompt and trenchant decisions which changed the order of battle and often
the fortunes of the day, and those strong and energetic proclamations which so quickly reanimated
the discouraged army.  When our residence was composed of three rooms,--an extremely rare occurrence,
then the third room, or closet, was occupied by the Prince de Neuchatel, who always slept as
near by as possible.  We often found in these wretched dwellings old decayed furniture of singular
shapes, and little images in wood or plaster of male or female saints which the proprietors
had left. Frequently, however, we found poor people in these dwellings, who, having nothing
to save from conquest, had remained.  These good people seemed much ashamed to entertain so
badly the Emperor of the French, gave us what they had, and were not, on that account, less
badly esteemed by us. More of the poor than rich received the Emperor into their houses; and
the Kremlin was the last of the foreign palaces in which the Emperor slept during the Russian
campaign.

When there were no houses to be found, we erected the Emperor's tent, and, in order to divide
it into three apartments curtains were hung; in one of these apartments the Emperor slept,
the next was the Emperor's cabinet, and the third was occupied by his aides-de-camp and officers
of the service; this latter room being ordinarily used as the Emperor's dining-room, his meals
being prepared outside.  I alone slept in his room.  Roustan, who accompanied his Majesty on
horseback, slept in the entrance room of the tent, in order that the sleep which was so necessary
to him should not be disturbed.  The secretaries slept either in the cabinet or the entrance
room.  The higher officers and those of the service ate where and when they could, and, like
the simple soldiers, made no scruple of eating without tables.

Prince Berthier's tent was near that of the Emperor, and the prince always breakfasted and
dined with him.  They were like two inseparable friends.  This attachment was very touching,
and points of difference rarely arose between them.  Nevertheless, there was, I think, a little
coolness between him and the Emperor at the time his Majesty left the army of Moscow.  The
old marshal wished to accompany him; but the Emperor refused, and thereupon ensued an animated
but fruitless discussion.

The meals were served on the campaign by M. Colin, controller of the kitchen service, and Roustan,
or a bedroom servant.

During this campaign more than any other the Emperor rose often in the night, put on his dressing-gown,
and worked in his cabinet: frequently he had insomnia, which he could not overcome; and when
the bed at last became unbearable, he sprang from it suddenly, took a book and read, walking
back and forth, and when his head was somewhat relieved lay down again.  It was very rarely
he slept the whole of two nights in succession; but often he remained thus in the cabinet till
the hour for his toilet, when he returned to his room and I dressed him.  The Emperor took
great care of his hands; but on this campaign he many times neglected this species of coquetry,
and during the excessive heat did not wear gloves, as they inconvenienced him so greatly. 
He endured the cold heroically, though it was easy to see he suffered much from it physically.

At Witepsk the Emperor, finding the space in front of the house in which he had his quarters
too small to hold a review of the troops, had several small buildings torn down in order to
enlarge it.  There was a small dilapidated chapel which it was also necessary to destroy in
order to accomplish this, and it had been already partly torn down, when the inhabitants assembled
in large numbers, and loudly expressed their disapprobation of this measure.  But the Emperor
having given his consent to their removing the sacred objects contained in the chapel, they
were pacified; and, armed with this authority, several among them entered the sacred place,
and emerged bearing with great solemnity wooden images of immense height, which they deposited
in the other churches.

We were witnesses while in this town of a singular spectacle, and one well calculated to shock
our sense of decency.  For many days during the intense heat we saw the inhabitants, both men
and women, rushing to the banks of the river, removing their clothing with the greatest indifference
to spectators, and bathing together, most of them nearly naked.  The soldiers of the guard
took pleasure in mingling with these bathers of both sexes; but as the soldiers were not so
decorous as the inhabitants, and as the imprudencies committed by our men soon went too far,
these worthy people relinquished the pleasures of their bath, very much displeased because
sport was made of an exercise they had enjoyed with so much gravity and seriousness.

One evening I was present at a grand review of the foot grenadiers of the guard, in which all
the regiments seemed to take much delight, since it was in honor of the installation of General
Friant

     [Louis Friant, born in Picardy, 1758; brigadier-general, 1794;
     served on the Rhine and in Italy; accompanied Napoleon to Egypt, and
     became general of division; wounded at Austerlitz (1805), and was at
     Jena and Wagram; commanded the grenadiers of the guard in Russian
     campaign, and was severely wounded at Waterloo; died 1829]

as commander of the corps.  The Emperor gave him the accolade, which was the only occasion
on which I saw this done during the campaign; and as the general was much beloved by the army,
it was amidst the acclamations of all that he received this honor from the Emperor.

Promotions were usually welcomed by the soldiers with great enthusiasm, for the Emperor required
that they should take place with much pomp and ceremony.

Many persons thought that to be near the Emperor was a proof of being well provided for on
the campaign.  This is a great mistake, as even the kings and princes who accompanied his Majesty
on his campaigns could easily prove; and if these great personages lacked absolute necessaries,
it may well be believed that the persons comprising the different services fared badly.  The
Emperor himself often dispensed with ordinary comforts which would have been very agreeable
to him after the fatigues of the day.

At the hour for the bivouac it was a general "lodge who can;" but the poorest soldier never
had in his deprivation the chagrin of seeing his superiors enjoying abundance and scandalous
luxury.  The first generals of the army often dined on ammunition-bread with as much pleasure
as the simple soldier, and on the retreat the misery could not have been more general.  This
idea of deprivations shared by all did much to restore hope and energy to the most discouraged;
and, I may add, never has more reciprocal sympathy between chiefs and soldiers been seen, in
support of which statement innumerable instances could be given.

When evening came the fires were kindled, and those foragers who had been most successful invited
their companions to share their good cheer.  In the worst times there was poor, yet still not
the worst, fare to offer, consisting of slices of broiled horse-flesh.

Many soldiers deprived themselves of some valuable booty to offer it to their chief, and selfishness
was not so general that this noble French courtesy did not reappear from time to time to recall
the happy days of France.  Straw was the bed of all; and those of the marshals who in Paris
slept on most luxurious beds of down did not find this couch too hard in Russia.

M. de Beausset has given me a very amusing account of one night, when sleeping pell-mell on
a little straw, in very narrow quarters, the aides- de-camp attending upon the Emperor stepped
mercilessly on the limbs of their sleeping companions, who, fortunately, did not all suffer
from gout like M. Beausset, and were not injured by such sudden and oft-repeated onslaughts.
He cried, "What brutes!"  and drawing his legs under him, cowered down in his corner until
this passing and repassing had ceased for a while.

Picture to yourself large rooms, filthy, unfurnished, and open to the wind, which entered through
every window, nearly all the glass of which was broken, with crumbling walls and fetid air,
which we warmed as well as possible with our breath, a vast litter of straw prepared as if
for horses, and on this litter men shivering with cold, throwing themselves about, pressing
against each other, murmuring, swearing, some unable to close their eyes, others more fortunate
snoring loudly, and in the midst of this mass of legs and feet, a general awakening in the
night when an order from the Emperor arrived, and you may form an idea of the inn and the guests.

As for myself, during the entire campaign I did not a single time undress to retire to bed,
for I never found one anywhere.  It was necessary to supply this deficiency by some means;
and as it is well known that necessity is ever ready with inventions, we supplied deficiency
in our furnishings in the following manner: we had great bags of coarse cloth made, into which
we entered, and thus protected, threw ourselves on a little straw, when we were fortunate enough
to obtain it; and for several months I took my rest during the night in this manner, and even
this I frequently could not enjoy for as many as five or six nights at a time, so exacting
were the requirements of my position.

