PIONEERS AND FOUNDERS, or Recent Workers in the Mission field.

BY C. M. YONGE,

Author of "The Heir of Radclyffe."

{i:Portrait of Reginald Heber: p0.jpg}

London: MACMILLAN & CO 1874.

INTRODUCTION.

It has been my endeavour in the ensuing narratives to bring together such of the more distinguished
Missionaries of the English and American nations as might best illustrate the character and
growth of Mission work in the last two centuries.  It is impossible to make it a real history
of the Missions of modern times.  If I could, I would have followed in the track of Mr. Maclear's
admirable volume, but the field is too wide, the material at once too numerous and too scattered,
and the account of the spread of the Gospel in the distant parts of the earth has yet to be
written in volumes far exceeding the bulk of those allotted to the "Sunday Library."

Two large classes of admirable Missions have been purposely avoided,--namely, those of the
Jesuits in Japan, China, and North and South America, and those of the Moravians in Greenland,
the United States, and Africa.  These are noble works, but they are subjects apart, and our
narratives deal with men exclusively of British blood, with the exception of Schwartz, whose
toils were so entirely accepted and adopted by the Church of England, that he cannot but be
reckoned among her ambassadors.  The object, then, has been to throw together such biographies
as are most complete, most illustrative, and have been found most inciting to stir up others--representative
lives, as far as possible--from the time when the destitution of the Red Indians first stirred
the heart of John Eliot, till the misery of the hunted negro brought Charles Mackenzie to the
banks of the fever-haunted Zambesi.

We think it will be found that, so far from being the talking, exaggerating, unpractical men
that the critical and popular mind is apt to suppose, these labourers were in general eminently
practical and hard- working.  They seem to us to range themselves into three classes: one,
stirred up by the sight of the destitution before their eyes, and quietly trying to supply
those needs; one, inspired by fervid zeal to devote themselves; and one, selected by others,
taking that selection as a call, and toiling as a duty, as they would have toiled at any other
duty set before them.  Each and all have their place, and fulfil the work.  The hindrances
and drawbacks are generally not in the men themselves, nor in the objects of their labour,
but first and foremost in the almost uniform hostility of the colonists around, who are used
to consider the dark races as subjects for servitude, and either despise or resent any attempt
at raising them in the scale; and next, in the extreme difficulty of obtaining means.  This
it is that has more than anything tended to bring Mission work into disrepute.  Many people
have no regular system nor principle of giving--the much-needed supplies can only be charmed
out of their pockets by sensational accounts, such as the most really hard-working and devoted
men cannot prevail on themselves to pour forth; and the work of collection is left to any of
the rank and file who have the power of speech, backed by articles where immediate results
may be dwelt upon to satisfy those who will not sow in faith and wait patiently.

And the Societies that do their best to regulate and collect the funds raised by those who
give, whether on impulse or principle, are necessarily managed by home committees, who ought
to unite the qualities of men of business with an intimate knowledge of the needs and governments
of numerous young churches, among varied peoples, nations, and languages, each in an entirely
abnormal state; and, moreover, to deal with those great men who now and then rise to fulfil
great tasks, and cannot be judged by common rules.  Thus it is that home Societies are often
to be reckoned among the trials of Missionaries.

But we will not dwell on such shortcomings, and will rather pass on to what we had designed
as the purpose of our present introduction; namely, to supplement the information which the
biographical form of our work has necessitated us to leave imperfect, respecting the Missions
as well as the men.

Of the Red Indians who first stirred the compassion of John Eliot, there is little that is
good to tell, or rather there is little good to tell of the White man's treatment of them.
Self-government by the stronger people always falls hard on the weaker, and Mission after Mission
has been extinguished by the enmity of the surrounding Whites and the corruption and decay
of the Indians.  A Moravian Mission has been actually persecuted.  Every here and there some
good man has arisen and done a good work on those immediately around him, and at the present
time there are some Indians living upon the reserves in the western part of the continent,
fairly civilized, settled, and Christianized, and only diminishing from that law of their physical
nature that forbids them to flourish without a wilderness in which to roam.

But between the long-settled States of America and those upon the shores of the Pacific, lies
a territory where the Indian is still a wild and savage man, and where hatred and slaughter
prevail.  The Government at Washington would fain act a humane part, and set apart reserves
of land and supplies, but the agents through which the transactions are carried on have too
often proved unfaithful, and palmed off inferior goods on the Indians, or brought up old debts
against them; and in the meantime mutual injuries work up the settlers and the Red men to such
a pitch of exasperation, that horrid cruelties are perpetrated on the one side, and on the
other the wild men are shot down as pitilessly as beasts of prey, while the travellers and
soldiers who live in daily watch and ward against the "wily savage" learn to stigmatize all
pity for him as a sort of sentimentalism sprung from Cooper's novels.

Still, where there is peace, good men make their way, and with blessed effect.  We wish we
had room for the records of the Bishopric of Minnesota, and the details of the work among the
Indians; more especially how, when a rising was contemplated to massacre the White settlers
all along the border, a Christian Indian travelled all night to give warning; and how, on another
occasion, no less than four hundred White women and children were saved by the interposition
of four Christian Indian chiefs. Perhaps the Church has never made so systematic an effort
upon the Indians as in Minnesota, and it is to be hoped that there may be some success.

For the need of system seems to me one of the great morals to be deduced from the lives I have
here collected.  I confess that I began them with the unwilling belief that greater works had
been effected by persons outside the pale of the Church than by those within; but as I have
gone on, the conviction has grown on me that even though the individuals were often great men,
their works lacked that permanency and grasp that Church work, as such, has had.

The equality of rank in the ministry of other bodies has prevented the original great founders
from being invested with the power that is really needed in training and disciplining inferior
and more inexperienced assistants, and produces a want of compactness and authority which has
disastrous effects in movements of emergency.  Moreover, the lack of forms causes a deficiency
of framework for religion to attach itself to, and this is almost fatal to dealing with unintellectual
minds.

On the whole, the East Indian Missions have prospered best.  Schwartz was the very type of
a founder, with his quiet, plodding earnestness, and power of being generally valuable; and
the impression he made had not had time to die away before the Episcopate brought authority
to deal with the difficulties he had left.  Martyn was, like Brainerd before him, one of the
beacons of the cause, and did more by his example than by actual teaching; and the foundation
of the See of Calcutta gave stability to the former efforts.  Except Heber, the Bishops of
the Indian See were not remarkable men, but their history has been put together as a whole
for the sake of the completion of the subject, as a sample of the difficulties of the position,
and likewise because of the steady progress of the labours there recorded.

The Serampore brethren are too notable to be passed over, if only for the memorable fact that
Carey the cobbler lighted the missionary fire throughout England and America at a time when
the embers had become so extinct that our Society for the Propagation of the Gospel had to
borrow workers from Denmark and Germany.  Indeed, Martyn's zeal was partly lighted by Carey,
though the early termination of his labours has forced me to place his biography before that
of the longer-lived Baptist friends--both men of curious and wonderful powers, but whose history
shows the disadvantages of the Society government, and whose achievements were the less permanent
in consequence.  The Burmese branch of their work is chiefly noticeable for the characters
and adventures of Dr. Judson and his three wives, and for the interesting display of Buddhism
in contact with Christianity.  According to the statistics in an American Missionary Dictionary,
the work they founded has not fallen to the ground either at Moulmein or Rangoon; while there
has also sprung up a hopeful English Church Mission in the same quarter.  The last thing I
saw about it was a mention of the neatness and dexterity of Burmese girls as needlewomen.

Samuel Marsden may be called the patriarch of Australasian Christianity. There is something
grand in the bravery of the bullet-headed Yorkshireman, now contending with the brutality of
the convicts and their masters, now sleeping among the cannibals of New Zealand.  His foundations,
too, have received a superstructure on which we cannot dwell; because, happily, the first Bishop
of New Zealand is not yet a subject for biography, and the Melanesian Mission, which has sprung
out of it, has not yet seen its first generation.

The Polynesian work, of which John Williams was the martyr and the representative man, has
chiefly been carried on by the London Mission.  It has always been a principle with the Missionaries
of the Anglican Church, whose centre has been first New Zealand, then Norfolk Island, never
to enter upon any islands pre-occupied by Christian teachers of any denomination, since there
is no lack of wholly unoccupied ground, without perplexing the spirit of the natives with the
spectacle of "our unhappy divisions;" and thus while Melanesia is for the most part left to
the Church, Polynesia is in the hands of the London Mission.  Much good has been effected.
The difficulty is that, for want of supervision, individual Missionaries are too much left
to themselves, and are in danger of becoming too despotic in their islands.  At least such
is the impression they sometimes give to officers of the navy.  French aggression has much
disturbed them both in Tahiti and in the Loyalty Islands, and the introduction of Roman Catholic
priests into their territory is bitterly resented.  On the whole, observers tolerably impartial
think that the civilization which these married teachers bring with them has a happier effect
as an example and stimulus to the natives than the solitary ascetic priest,--a true, self-devoted
saint indeed but unable to win the attention of the people in their present condition.  In
India, where asceticism is the test of sanctity even among the heathen, the most self-denying
preacher has the best chance of being respected; but in those luxurious islets, poverty and
plainness of living, without the power of showing the arts of life, get despised.  If the priests
could bring their pomp of worship, and large bands of brethren or sisters to reclaim the waste,
they might tell upon the minds of the people, but at present they go forth few and poor, and
are little heeded in their isolation.  Unfortunately, too, the antagonism between them and
the London Mission is desperate.  The latter hold the tenets perhaps the most widely removed
from Catholicism of any Protestant sect, and are mostly not educated enough to understand the
opposite point of view, so that each party would almost as soon see the natives unconverted
as joining the hostile camp: and precious time is wasted in warrings the one against the other.

The most real enemies to Christianity in these seas are, however, the lawless traders, the
English and American whalers and sandal-wood dealers, who bring uncontrolled vice and violence
where they put in for water; while they, on the one hand, corrupt the natives, on the other
they provoke them into reprisals on the next White men who fall in their way.  That the Polynesians
are good sailors and not bad workmen, has proved another misfortune, for they are often kidnapped
by unscrupulous captains to supply the deficiency of labour in some of the Australasian settlements.
Everywhere it seems to be the unhappy fact that Christian men are the most fatal hinderers
of God's word among the heathen.

Yet most of the more accessible of the isles have a resident missionary, and keep up schools
and chapels.  Their chiefs have accepted a Christian code, and the horrid atrocities of cannibalism
have been entirely given up, though there is still much evil prevalent, especially in those
which have convenient harbours, and are in the pathway of ships.  The Samoan islanders have
a college, managed by an English minister and his wife, where teachers are educated not only
to much good discipline, but to much real refinement, and go forth as admirable and self-devoted
heralds of the Gospel into other isles.  They have furnished willing martyrs, and many have
been far beyond praise.  One lack, however, seems to be of that definite formularies, a deficiency
which leaves the teaching to depend over much on the individual impressions of the teacher.

The chief remnants of cannibalism are to be found in the New Hebrides. The leader of the attack
on John Williams is still alive at Erromango, and the savage defiant nature of this people
has never been subdued.  They belong more to the Melanesian than the Polynesian races.  The
first are more like the Negro, the second more like the Malay.  The Melanesian Missions are
in the charge of the Missionary Bishop, John Coleridge Patteson, who went out as a priest with
the Bishop of New Zealand in 1855.

The New Zealand story, as I have said, cannot be told in the lifetime of the chief actor in
it.  It is a story of startling success, and then of disappointment through colonial impracticability.
In some points it has been John Eliot's experience upon a larger scale; but in this case the
political quarrel led to the rise of a savage and murderous sect among the Maories, a sort
of endeavour to combine some features of Christianity and even Judaism with the old forgotten
Paganism, and yet promoting even cannibalism.  It is memorable, however, that not one Maori
who had received Holy Orders has ever swerved from the faith, though the "Hau- Haus" have led
away many hundreds of Christians.  Still, a good number remain loyal and faithful, and hold
to the English in the miserable war which is still raging, provoked by disputes over the sale
of land.

The Melanesian Mission was begun from New Zealand; but whereas the isles are too hot for English
constitutions, they can only be visited from the sea, and lads are brought away to be educated
for teachers.  New Zealand proved too cold for these natives of a tropical climate, and the
college has been transplanted to Norfolk Island, where Bishop Patteson has fixed his head-quarters.
One of his converts from Banks's Island has received Holy Orders, and this latter group seems
in good train to afford a supply of native ministers to islands where few Englishmen could
take up a permanent abode.

The African Missions would afford much detail, but want of space has prevented me from mentioning
the Rev. George Leacock, the West Indian clergyman, who gave up everything when already an
old man to pave the way of the Gospel in the Pongas.  And the Cape still retains its first
Bishop, so that it is only on the side of Natal and Zululand, where the workers have passed
away, that the narrative can be complete.  But the African Church is extending its stakes in
Graham's Town, Orange River, Zululand, and Zanzibar; and while the cry from East, West, and
South is still "Come over and help us," we cannot but feel that, in spite of many a failure,
many a disappointment, many a fatal error, still the Gospel trumpet is being blown, and not
blown in vain, even in the few spots whose history, for the sake of their representative men,
I have here tried to record.  Of the Canadian and Columbian Indian Missions, of the Sandwich
Isles, and of many more, I have here been able to say nothing; but I hope that the pictures
of these labourers in the cause may tend to some understanding, not only of their toils, but
of their joys, and may show that they were men not easily deceived, and thoroughly to be trusted
in their own reports of their progress.

CHARLOTTE M. YONGE.

March 16th, 1871.

CHAPTER I.  JOHN ELIOT, THE APOSTLE OF THE RED INDIANS.

Since the great efforts that Britain had made between the years 500 and 1000 to bring the knowledge
of the truth into the still heathen portions of the Continent,--since the days of Columban
and Gal, of Boniface and Willibrord,--there had been a cessation of missionary enterprise.
The known portions of the world were either Christian, or were in the hands of the Mahommedans;
and no doubt much of the adventurous spirit which, united with religious enthusiasm, forms
the missionary, found vent in the Crusades, and training in the military orders.  The temper
of the age, and the hopelessness of converting a Mahommedan, made the good men of the third
500 years use their swords rather than their tongues against the infidel; and it was only in
the case of men possessing such rare natures as those of Francis of Assisi, or Raymond Lull,
that the possibility of trying to bring over a single Saracen to the faith was imagined.

It was in the revival from the Paganism with which classical tastes had infected the Church,
that the spirit of missions again awoke, stimulated, of course, by the wide discoveries of
fresh lands that were dawning upon the earth.  If from 1000 to 1500 the progress of the Gospel
was confined to the borders of the Slavonic nation, the space of time from 1500 onwards has
been one of constant and unwearied effort to raise the standard of the Cross in the new worlds
beyond the Atlantic.

Spain, Portugal, France, as nations, and the great company of the Jesuits as one mighty brotherhood,
were the foremost in the great undertaking; but their doings form a history of their own, and
our business is with the efforts of our own Church and country in the same great cause.

Our work was not taken up so soon as theirs, partly because the spirit of colonization did
not begin amongst us so early as in Spain and Portugal, and partly because the foundations
of most of our colonies were laid by private enterprise, rather than by public adventure, and
moreover some of the earlier ones in unsettled times.

It may be reckoned as one peculiarity of Englishmen, that their greatest works are usually
not the outcome of enthusiastic design, but rather grow upon them by degrees, as they are led
in paths that they have not known, and merely undertake the duty that stands immediately before
them, step by step.

The young schoolmaster at Little Baddow, near Chelmsford, who decided on following in the track
of the Pilgrim Fathers to New England, went simply to enjoy liberty of conscience, and to be
free to minister according to his own views, and never intended to become the Apostle of the
Red Indians.

Nothing is more remarkable than the recoil from neglected truths.  When, even in the earliest
ages of the Church, the Second Commandment was supposed to be a mere enhancing of the first,
and therefore curtailed and omitted, there was little perception that this would lead to popular,
though not theoretical, idolatry, still less that this law, when again brought forward, would
be pushed by scrupulous minds to the most strange and unexpected consequences, to the over-powering
of all authority of ancient custom, and to the repudiation of everything symbolical.

This resolution against acknowledging any obligation to use either symbol or ceremony, together
with the opposition of the hierarchy, led to the rejection of the traditional usages of the
Church and the previously universal interpretation of Scripture in favour of three orders in
the ministry.  The elders, or presbytery, were deemed sufficient; and when, after having for
many years been carried along, acquiescing, in the stream of the Reformation, the English Episcopacy
tried to make a stand, the coercion was regarded as a return to bondage, and the more ardent
spirits sought a new soil on which to enjoy the immunities that they regarded as Christian freedom.

The Mayflower led the way in 1620, and the news of the success of the first Pilgrim Fathers
impelled many others to follow in their track. Among these was John Eliot.  He had been born
in 1604 at Nasing in Essex, and had been bred up by careful parents, full of that strong craving
for theological studies that characterized the middle classes in the reign of James I.

Nothing more is known of his youth except that he received a university education, and, like
others who have been foremost in missionary labours, had a gift for the comparison of languages
and study of grammar.  He studied the Holy Scriptures in the original tongues with the zeal
that was infused into all scholars by the knowledge that the Authorized Version was in hand,
and by the stimulus that was afforded by the promise of a copy of the first edition to him
who should detect and correct an error in the type.

The usual fate of a scholar was to be either schoolmaster or clergyman, if not both, and young
Eliot commenced his career as an assistant to Mr. John Hooker, at the Grammar School at Little
Baddow.  He considered this period to have been that in which the strongest religious impressions
were made upon him.  John Hooker was a thorough-going Puritan of great piety and rigid scruples,
and instructed his household diligently in godliness, both theoretical and practical.  Eliot
became anxious to enter the ministry, but the reaction of Church principles, which had set
in with James I., was an obstacle in his way; and imagining all ceremonial not observed by
the foreign Protestants to be oppressions on Christian liberty, it became the strongest resolution
of the whole party to accept nothing of all these rites, and thus ordination became impossible
to them, while the laws were stringent against any preaching or praying publicly by any unordained
person.  The instruction of youth was likewise only permitted to those who were licensed by
the bishop of the diocese; and Mr. Hooker, failing to fulfil the required tests, was silenced,
and, although forty-seven clergy petitioned on his behalf, was obliged to flee to Holland.

This decided Eliot, then twenty-seven years of age, on leaving England, and seeking a freer
sphere of action in the newly-founded colonies of New England, which held a charter from Government.
He took leave of his betrothed, of whom we only know that her Christian name was Anne (gracious),
and that her nature answered to her name, and sailed on the 3rd of November, 1631, in the ship
Lyon, with a company of sixty persons, among whom were the family of Governor Winthrop.

They landed at Boston, then newly rising into a city over its harbour, and there he found his
services immediately required to conduct the worship in the congregation during the absence
of the pastor, who had gone to England finally to arrange his affairs.

On his return, Mr. Eliot was found to be in such favour, that the Bostonites strove to retain
him as an assistant minister; but this he refused, knowing that many friends in England wished
to found a separate settlement of their own; and in less than a year this arrangement was actually
carried out, a steep hill in the forest-land was selected, and a staunch band of East Saxons,
bringing with them the gracious Anne, came forth.  John Eliot was married, elected pastor,
ordained, after Presbyterian custom, by the laying on of the hands of the ministers in solemn
assembly, and then took possession of the abode prepared for him and of the building on the
top of the hill, where his ministrations were to be conducted.

These old fathers of the United States had found a soil, fair and well watered; and though
less rich than the wondrous alluvial lands to the west, yet with capacities to yield them plentiful
provision, when cleared from the vast forest that covered it.  Nor had they come for the sake
of wealth or luxury; the earnestness of newly-awakened, and in some degree persecuted, religion
was upon them, and they regarded a sufficiency of food and clothing as all that they had a
right to seek.  Indeed, the spirit of ascetiscism was one of their foremost characteristics.
Eliot was a man who lived in constant self-restraint as to both sleep and diet, and, on all
occasions of special prayer, prefaced them by a rigorous fast--and he seems to have been in
a continual atmosphere of devotion.

One of his friends objected (oddly enough as it seems to us) to his stooping to pick up a weed
in his garden.  "Sir, you tell us we must be heavenly-minded."

"It is true," he said, "and this is no impediment unto that; for, were I sure to go to heaven
to-morrow, I would do what I do to-day."

And, like many a good Christian, his outward life was to him full of allegory.  Going up the
steep hill to his church, he said, "This is very like the way to heaven.  'Tis up hill!  The
Lord in His grace fetch us up;" and spying a bush near him, he added, "And truly there are
thorns and briars in the way, too."

He had great command of his flock at Roxbury, and was a most diligent preacher and catechiser,
declaring, in reference to the charge to St. Peter, that "the care of the lambs is one-third
part of the charge to the Church of God."  An excellent free school was founded at Roxbury,
which was held in great repute in the time of Cotton Mather, to whom we owe most of our knowledge
of this good man.  The biography is put together in the peculiar fashion of that day, not chronologically,
but under heads illustrating his various virtues, so that it is not easy to pick out the course
of his undertakings.  Before passing on to that which especially distinguished him, we must
give an anecdote or two from the "article" denominated "His exquisite charity."  His wife had
become exceedingly skilful in medicine and in dealing with wounds, no small benefit in a recent
colony scant of doctors, and she gave her aid freely to all who stood in need of help.  A person
who had taken offence at something in one of his sermons, and had abused him passionately,
both in speech and in writing, chanced to wound himself severely, whereupon he at once sent
his wife to act as surgeon; and when the man, having recovered, came to return thanks and presents,
he would accept nothing, but detained him to a friendly meal, "and," says Mather, "by this
carriage he mollified and conquered the stomach of his reviler."

"He was also a great enemy to all contention, and would ring a loud Courfew Bell wherever he
saw the fires of animosity."  When he heard any ministers complain that such and such in their
flocks were too difficult for them, the strain of his answer was still: "Brother, compass them;"
and, "Brother, learn the meaning of those three little words, 'bear, forbear, forgive.'"

Once, when at an assembly of ministers a bundle of papers containing matters of difference
and contention between two parties--who, he thought, should rather unite--was laid on the table,
Eliot rose up and put the whole upon the fire, saying, "Brethren, wonder not at that which
I have done: I did it on my knees this morning before I came among you."

But that "exquisite charity" seems a little one-sided in another anecdote recorded of him,
when "a godly gentleman of Charlestown, one Mr. Foster, with his son, was taken captive by
his Turkish enemies." {f:6}  Public prayers were offered for his release: but when tidings
were received that the "Bloody Prince" who had enslaved him had resolved that no captive should
be liberated in his own lifetime, and the distressed friends concluded, "Our hope is lost;"
Mr. Eliot, "in some of his prayers before a very solemn congregation, very broadly begged,
'Heavenly Father, work for the redemption of Thy poor servant Foster, and if the prince which
detains him will not, as they say, release him so long as himself lives, Lord, we pray Thee
kill that cruel prince, kill him, and glorify Thyself upon him.'  And now behold the answer.
The poor captiv'd gentleman quickly returns to us that had been mourning for him as a lost
man, and brings us news that the prince, which had hitherto held him, was come to an untimely
death, by which means he was now set at liberty."

"And to turn their hearts" was a form that did not occur to the earnest suppliant for his friend.
But the "cruel prince" was far away out of sight, and there was no lack of charity in John
Eliot's heart for the heathen who came into immediate contact with him.  Indeed, he was the
first to make any real effort for their conversion.

The colonists were as yet only a scanty sprinkling in easy reach of the coast, and had done
little at present to destroy the hunting-grounds of the Red man who had hitherto held possession
of the woods and plains.

The country was inhabited by the Pequot Indians, a tall, well-proportioned, and active tribe,
belonging to the great Iroquois nation.  They set up their wigwams of bark, around which their
squaws cultivated the rapidly growing crop of maize while the men hunted the buffalo and deer,
and returning with their spoil, required every imaginable service from their heavily-oppressed
women, while they themselves deemed the slightest exertion, except in war and hunting, beneath
their dignity.  Their nature had much that was high and noble; and in those days had not yet
been ruined either by the White man's vices or his cruelty.  They were neither the outcast
savages nor the abject inferiors that two hundred years have rendered their descendants, but
far better realized the description in Longfellow's "Hiawatha," of the magnificently grave,
imperturbably patient savage, the slave of his word, and hospitable to the most scrupulous
extent.  It was in mercy and tenderness that the character was the most deficient.  The whole
European instinct of forbearance and respect to woman was utterly wanting,--the squaws were
the most degraded of slaves; and to the captive the most barbarous cruelty was shown.  Experience
has shown that there is something in the nature of the Red Indian which makes him very slow
of being able to endure civilization, renders wandering almost a necessity to his constitution,
and generally makes him, when under restraint, even under the most favourable conditions, dwindle
away, lose all his fine natural endowments, and become an abject and often a vicious being.
The misfortune has been that, with a few honourable exceptions, it has not been within the
power of the better and more thoughtful portion of man to change the Red Indian's vague belief
in his "Great Spirit" to a more systematic and stringent acceptance of other eternal verities
and their consequent obligations, and at the same time leave him free to lead the roving life
of the patriarchs of old; since, as Scripture itself shows us, it takes many generations to
train the wandering hunter to a tiller of the soil, or a dweller in cities; and the shock to
the wild man of a sudden change is almost always fatal both to mental and bodily health. This
conclusion, however, has been a matter of slow and sad experience, often confused by the wretched
effects of the vice, barbarity, and avarice of the settler and seaman, which in many cases
have counteracted the effects of the missionary, and accelerated the extinction of the native.

In John Eliot's time, there was all to hope; and the community of Englishmen with whom he lived,
though stern, fierce, intolerant, and at times cruel in their intolerance, did not embarrass
his work nor corrupt the Indians by the grosser and coarser vices, when, in his biographer's
words, "our Eliot was on such ill terms with the devil as to alarm him with sounding the silver
trumpets of Heaven in his territories, and make some noble and zealous endeavours towards ousting
him of his ancient possessions."  The Pilgrim Fathers had obtained their land by fair purchase,
i.e. if purchase could be fair where there was no real mutual understanding; and a good deal
of interest had been felt in England in the religious state of the Red men.  The charter to
the colony had enforced their conversion on the settlers, and Dr. Lake, Bishop of Bath and
Wells, declared that but for his old age and infirmities he would have headed a mission to
America for the purpose.  Had he done so, perhaps something systematic might have been attempted.
As it was the new colonists had too severe a struggle with their own difficulties to attend
to their heathen surroundings, even though the seal of their colony of Massachusetts represented
an Indian with the label in his mouth, "Come over and help us."  A few conversions had taken
place, but rather owing to the interest in the White men's worship taken by individual Indians,
than to any efforts on the part of the settlers.

Sixteen years, however, passed without overt aggression, though already was beginning the sad
story that is repeated wherever civilized man extends his frontiers.  The savage finds his
hunting-ground broken up, the White man's farm is ruined by the game or the chase, the luxuries
of civilization excite the natives' desires, mistrust leads to injury, retaliation follows,
and then war.

In 1634, only two years after Eliot's arrival, two gentlemen, with their boat's crew, were
killed on the Connecticut river, and some of the barbarities took place that we shall too often
have to notice--attacks by the natives on solitary dwellings or lonely travellers, and increasing
anger on the part of the colonists, until they ceased to regard their enemies as fellow-creatures.

However, the Pequots were likewise at war with the Dutch and with the Narragansets, or river
Indians, and they sent a deputation to endeavour to make peace with the English, and secure
their assistance against these enemies.  They were appointed to return for their answer in
a month's time; and after consultation with the clergy, Mr. Dudley and Mr. Ludlow, the Governor
and Deputy-Governor, decided on making a treaty with them, on condition of their delivering
up the murderers of the Englishmen, and paying down forty beaver and thirty otter skins, besides
400 fathoms of wampum, i.e. strings of the small whelks and Venus-shells that served as current
coin, a fathom being worth about five shillings.

It surprises us that Eliot's name first appears in connection with the Indians as an objector
to this treaty, and in a sermon too, at Roxbury; not on any grounds of injustice to the Indians,
but because it had been conducted by the magistrates without reference to the people, which
was an offence to his views of the republican rights to be exercised in the colony.  So serious
was his objection deemed, that a deputation was appointed to explain the principles on which
Government had acted, and thus convince Mr. Eliot, which they did so effectually that he retracted
his censure in his next sermon.

Probably this was what first awakened John Eliot's interest in the Red- skins; but for the
next few years, in spite of the treaty, there was a good deal of disturbance on the frontier,
and some commission of cruelties, until the colonists became gradually roused into fury.  Some
tribes were friendly with them; and, uniting with these the Mohicans and river Indians, under
the conduct of Uncas, the Mohican chief, seventy- seven Englishmen made a raid into the Pequot
country and drove them from it.  Then, in 1637, a battle, called "the Great Swamp Fight," took
place between the English, Dutch, and friendly Indians on the one hand, and the Pequots on
the other.  It ended in the slaughter of seven hundred of the Pequots and thirteen of their
Sachems.  The wife of one of the Sachems was taken, and as she had protected two captive English
girls she was treated with great consideration, and was much admired for her good sense and
modesty; but the other prisoners were dispersed among the settlers to serve as slaves, and
a great number of the poor creatures were shipped off to the West India Islands to work on
the sugar plantations.

Those who had escaped the battle were hunted down by the Mohicans and Narragansets, who continually
brought their scalps in to the English towns, and at last they were reduced to sue for peace
when only 200 braves were still living.  These, with their families, were amalgamated with
the Mohicans and Narragansets, and expelled from their former territory, on which the English
settled.  An annual tribute of a length of wampum, for every male in the tribe, varying according
to age and rank, was paid to the English, and their supremacy was so entirely established that
nearly forty years of peace succeeded.

Eliot's missionary enterprise, Mather allows, was first inspired by the "remarkable zeal of
the Romish missionaries," by whom he probably means the French Jesuits, who were working with
much effect in the settlements in Louisiana, first occupied in the time of Henri IV.  Another
stimulus came from the expressions in the Royal Charter which had granted licence for the establishment
of the colony, namely, "To win and incite the natives of that country to the knowledge and
obedience of the only true God and Saviour of mankind and the Christian faith, in our Royal
intention and the Adventurers' free profession, is the principal end of the Plantation."

That the devil himself was the Red men's master, and came to their assistance when summoned
by the incantations of their medicine men, was the universal belief of the colonists, in corroboration
of which the following story is given:--"The Indians in their wars with us, finding a sore
inconvenience by our dogs, which would make a sad yelling if in the night they scented the
approaches of them, they sacrificed a dog to the devil, after which no English dog would bark
at an Indian for divers months ensuing."

In the intended contest Mr. Eliot began by preaching and making collections from the English
settlers, and likewise "he hires a native to teach him this exotick language, and, with a laborious
care and skill, reduces it into a grammar, which afterwards he published.  There is a letter
or two of our alphabet which the Indians never had in theirs; though there were enough of the
dog in their temper, there can scarce be found an R in their language, . . . but, if their
alphabet be short, I am sure the words composed of it are long enough to tire the patience
of any scholar in the world; they are Sesquipedalia verba, of which their linguo is composed.
For instance, if I were to translate our Loves, it must be nothing shorter than Noowomantamoonkanunonush.
Or to give my reader a longer word, Kremmogkodonattootummootiteaonganunnnash is, in English,
our question."

The worthy Mr. Mather adds, with a sort of apology, that, having once found that the demons
in a possessed young woman understood Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, he himself tried them with
this Indian tongue, and "the demons did seem as if they understood it."  Indeed, he thinks
the words must have been growing ever since the confusion of Babel!  The fact appears to be,
that these are what are now called agglutinate languages, and, like those of all savage tribes,
in a continual course of alteration--also often using a long periphrastic description to convey
an idea or form a name.  A few familiar instances will occur, such as Niagara, "thunder of water."

This formidable language Mr. Eliot--the anagram of whose name, Mather appropriately observes,
was Toils--mastered with the assistance of a "pregnant-witted Indian," who had been a servant
in an English family.  By the help of his natural turn for philology, he was able to subdue
this instrument to his great and holy end,--with what difficulty may be estimated from the
sentence with which he concluded his grammar: "Prayer and pains through faith in CHRIST JESUS
will do anything."

It was in the year 1646, while Cromwell was gradually obtaining a preponderating influence
in England, and King Charles had gone to seek protection in the Scottish army, that John Eliot,
then in his forty-second year, having thus prepared himself, commenced his campaign.

He had had a good deal of conversation with individual Indians who came about the settlement
at Roxbury, and who perceived the advantages of some of the English customs.  They said they
believed that in forty years the Red and White men would be all one, and were really anxious
for this consummation.  When Eliot declared that the superiority of the White race came from
their better knowledge of God, and offered to come and instruct them, they were full of joy
and gratitude; and on the 28th of October, 1646, among the glowing autumn woods, a meeting
of Indians was convoked, to which Mr. Eliot came with three companions.  They were met by a
chief named Waban, or the Wind, who had a son at an English school, and was already well disposed
towards them, and who led them to his wigwam, where the principal men of the tribe awaited them.

Mr. Eliot prayed in English, and then preached on the 9th and 10th verses of the 37th chapter
of Ezekiel, where the prophet is bid to call the Breath of God from the four winds of heaven
to give life to the dry bones around.  It so happened that the Indian word for breath or wind
was Waban, and this made a great impression, and was afterwards viewed as an omen.

The preacher worked up from the natural religion, of which this fine race already had an idea,
to the leading Christian truths.

The sermon lasted an hour and a quarter, but the Indians are a dignified and patient people,
prone to long discourses themselves, and apt to listen to them from others.  When he finally
asked if they had understood, many voices replied that they had; and, on his encouraging them
to ask questions, many intelligent inquiries were made.  The whole conference lasted three
hours, and Mr. Eliot was invited to come again, which he did at intervals of about a fortnight,
and again with good promise.

In one of these meetings they asked, very reasonably, why the English called them Indians,
a question it could not have been easy to answer. The Powaws, or priests, began to make some
opposition, but Waban was continually going about among the people, repeating portions of the
instructions he had received, and teaching his friends to pray--for some had at first supposed
that the English God might not be addressed in the native tongue, but only in English.

After some little time, he thought the Indians ripe for being taught to live a settled life,
and obtained for his congregation--"the praying Indians," as they were commonly called--a grant
of the site of his first instructions.  The place was named "Rejoicing,"--in Indian, a word
that soon got corrupted into Nonantum; and, under Mr. Eliot's directions, they divided their
grounds with trenches and stone walls, for which he gave them tools to the best of his ability.
They built wigwams of a superior construction, and the women learnt to spin; there was a continual
manufacture of brushes, eel-pots, and baskets, which were sold in the English towns, together
with turkeys, fish, venison, and fruits, according to the season.  At hay and harvest times
they would hire themselves out to work for their English neighbours, but were thought unable
or unwilling to do what sturdy Englishmen regarded as a fair day's work.

A second settlement of praying Indians followed at Neponset, around the wigwam of a Sachem
named Cutshamakin, a man of rank much superior to Waban.  He had already been in treaty with
the English, and had promised to observe the Ten Commandments, but had unhappily learnt also
from the English that love of drink which was the bane of the Indian; and while Mr. Eliot was
formally instructing the family, one of the sons, a boy of fifteen, when learning the fifth
commandment, persisted in saying only "honour thy mother," and, when admonished, declared that
his father had given him fire-water, which had intoxicated him, and had besides been passionate
and violent with him.  The boy had always been a rude, contumacious fellow, and at the next
lecture day Mr. Eliot turned to the Sachem, and lamented over these faults, but added that
the first step to reforming him would be for his father to set the example by a confession
of his own sins, which were neither few nor light.

The Sachem's pride was subdued.  He stood up and openly declared his offences, lamenting over
them with deep sincerity.  The boy was so touched that he made humble confession in his turn,
and entreated forgiveness.  His parents were so much moved that they wept aloud, and the board
on which Cutshamakin stood was wet with his tears.  He was softened then, but, poor man, he
said: "My heart is but very little better than it was, and I am afraid it will be as bad again
as it was before.  I sometimes wish I might die before I be so bad again!"

Poor Cutshamakin! he estimated himself truly.  The Puritan discipline, which aimed at acting
on the conduct rather through the conscience and feelings than by means of grace, never entirely
subdued him, and he remained a fitfully fierce, and yet repentant, savage to the end of his
life.  His squaw must have been a clever woman; for, being publicly reprimanded by the Indian
preacher Nabanton, for fetching water on a Sunday, she told him after the meeting that he had
done more harm by raising the discussion than she had done by fetching the water.

Sunday was impressed upon the natives with all the strictness peculiar to the British Calvinists
in their reaction from the ale-feasts, juggleries, and merry-makings of the almost pagan fifteenth
century.  It is never hard to make savage converts observe a day of rest; they are generally
used to keep certain seasons already, and, as Mr. Eliot's Indians honestly said, they do so
little work at any time that a weekly abstinence from it comes very easily.  At Nonantum, indeed,
they seem to have emulated the Pharisees themselves in their strictness.  Waban got into trouble
for having a racoon killed to entertain two unexpected guests; and a case was brought up at
public lecture of a man who, finding his fire nearly gone out, had violated the Sabbath by
splitting one piece of dry wood with his axe.

But the "weightier matters of the law" were not by any means forgotten, and there was a continual
struggle to cure the converts of their new vice of drunkenness, and their old habit of despising
and maltreating their squaws, who in the Christian villages were raised to a state far less
degraded; for any cruelty or tyranny towards them was made matter of public censure and confession
in the assembly.

Several more distant journeys were taken by Mr. Eliot, some of them to the Merrimac River to
see a powerful old Sachem of a great age, named Passaconaway, who his people believed to be
able to make green leaves grow in winter, trees dance, and water burn.

He was so much afraid of the Missionary that he fled away the first time he heard he was coming,
probably thinking him a great sorcerer; but the next time he remained, listened eagerly, expressed
his intention of praying, and tried to induce Mr. Eliot to settle in his district.  He lived
to a great age, and left a charge with his children never to contend with the English, having
convinced himself that the struggle was hopeless.  Several other Sachems gave a sort of attention:
and it appeared that the way had been in some degree prepared by a French priest, who had been
wrecked on Cape Cod, had been passed from one tribe to another, and had died among them, but
not without having left a tradition of teaching which was by some identified with Eliot's.

Of one Sachem, Mather tells a story: "While Mr. Eliot was preaching of Christ unto the other
Indians, a demon appeared unto a Prince of the Eastern Indians in a shape that had some resemblance
of Mr. Eliot or of an English minister, pretending to be the Englishman's God.  The spectre
commanded him 'to forbear the drinking of rum and to observe the Sabbath- day, and to deal
justly with his neighbours;' all which things had been inculcated in Mr. Eliot's ministry,
promising therewithal unto him that, if he did so, at his death his soul should ascend into
a happy place, otherwise descend unto miseries; but the apparition all the while never said
one word about Christ, which was the main subject of Mr. Eliot's ministry.  The Sachem received
such an impression from the apparition that he dealt justly with all men except in the bloody
tragedies and cruelties he afterwards committed on the English in our wars.  He kept the Sabbath-day
like a fast, frequently attending in our congregations; he would not meddle with any rum, though
usually his countrymen had rather die than undergo such a piece of self-denial.  That liquor
has merely enchanted them.  At last, and not long since, this demon appeared again unto this
pagan, requiring him to kill himself, and assuring him that he should revive in a day or two,
never to die any more.  He thereupon divers times attempted it, but his friends very carefully
prevented it; however, at length he found a fair opportunity for this foul business, and hanged
himself,--you may be sure without his expected resurrection."

This story, grotesque as it sounds in the solemn simplicity of the worthy Puritan, is really
only an instance of what takes place wherever the light of the Gospel is held up to men capable
of appreciating its standard of morality, but too proud to bend the spirit to accept the doctrine
of the Cross.  The Sachem was but a red-skinned "seeker after God," an "ape of Christianity,"
like Marcus Aurelius, and like the many others we shall meet with who loved darkness rather
than light, not so much because their deeds were evil as because their hearts were proud.

Like all practical men, Eliot found it absolutely necessary to do what he called "carrying
on civility with religion," i.e. instructing the converts in such of the arts of life as would
afford them wholesome industry; but want of means was his great difficulty, and in the middle
of a civil war England was not very likely to supply him.

Still he made his Indians at Nonantum hedge and ditch, plant trees, sow cornfields, and saw
planks; and some good man in England, whose name he never knew, sent him in 1648 ten pounds
for schools among the natives, half of which he gave to a mistress at Cambridge, and half to
a master at Dorchester, under whom the Indian children made good progress, and he catechized
them himself most diligently by way of teaching both them and the parents who looked on.

He had by this time translated the Bible, but it remained in manuscript for want of the means
of printing it; and his favourite scheme of creating an Indian city, with a scriptural government,
well out of the way of temptation from and interference by the English, was also at a standstill,
from his poverty.

He likewise sustained a great loss in his friend Mr. Shepard, who had worked with him with
equal devotion and enthusiasm, but this loss really led to the fulfilment of his wishes, for
Mr. Shepard's papers were sent home, and aroused such an interest in Calamy and others of the
devout ministers in London, that the needs of the Indians of New England were brought before
Parliament, and an ordinance was passed on the 27th of July, 1649, for the advancement of civilization
and Christianity among them.  Then a corporation was instituted, entitled the Society for the
Propagation of the Gospel in New England, of which Judge Street was the first president, and
Mr. Henry Ashurst the first treasurer, with powers to receive the collections that the ministers
in every parish were exhorted to make by authority of Parliament, backed up by letters from
the two Universities.

There was a good deal of opposition; people fancied it a new plan of getting money for Government,
and were not at all interested about the Indians, but money enough was collected to purchase
lands worth about 500l. or 600l. a year, by way of foundation, at a time when the property
of Cavaliers was going cheap, and the Society was able to undertake the cost of printing Eliot's
Bible, as well as of building him an Indian college, of paying his teachers, and of supplying
the greatly needed tools and other necessaries for his much-desired station.

Still there was a great deal of difficulty and opposition, from the English dislike and contempt
for the Indians, who were judged en masse by the degraded ones who loitered about the settlements,
begging and drinking; as well as from the Powaws or medicine men who found their dupes escaping,
and tried to terrify them by every means by which it was possible to work upon their superstition.
The Sachems, likewise, were finding out that Christians were less under their tyranny since
they had had a higher standard, and many opposed Eliot violently, trying to drive him from
their villages with threats and menacing gestures, but he calmly answered, "I am engaged in
the work of God, and God is with me.  I fear not all the Sachems in the country.  I shall go
on with my work.  Touch me if you dare;" nor did he ever fail to keep the most angry in check
while he was present, though they hated him greatly.  Uncas, the chief of the Mohicans, made
a regular complaint to Government that Eliot and his colleagues prayed by name for the conversion
of the Mohicans and Narragansets.  Even Cutshamakin, when he heard of the project of an Indian
town, broke out against it with such fury, that all the men in favour of it cowered and slunk
away from his furious howls and gesticulations.  Mr. Eliot was left alone to confront him,
and looking steadily at him told him that, as this was God's work, no fear of him should hinder
it.  The savage quailed before him, but afterwards came to him and stated that his objection
was that the praying Indians did not pay him their tribute.  Eliot kindly answered that this
had been complained of before, and that he had preached a sermon enforcing this duty upon the
tribe.

The words were good, said Cutshamakin, but the Indians would not obey them.  So Mr. Eliot,
after consultation with the ministers and elders in Boston, invited the Indians who understood
English to hear a sermon there, and in it the duty of rendering to all their due was fully
enforced.  Afterwards, however, the Indians came forward declaring themselves much surprised
and mortified at being accused of not paying their just duty to their chief; and they specified
the service and gifts: each had rendered twenty bushels of corn, six bushels of rye, fifteen
deer, days spent in hunting, the building of a wigwam, reclaiming two acres of land; and the
amount when added up amazed Mr. Eliot.  At his next lecture, then, he took for his text the
rejection by the Saviour of all the kingdoms of the world, and personally applied it to Cutshamakin,
reproaching him with lust of power and worldly ambition, and warning him that Satan was tempting
him to give up the faith for the sake of recovering his arbitrary power.  The discourse and
the conversation that followed again melted the Sachem, and he repented and retracted, although
he continued an unsafe and unstable man.

At length, in 1651, Mr. Eliot was able to convene his praying Indians and with them lay the
foundation of a town on the banks of Charles River, about eighteen miles to the south-west
of Boston.  The spot, as he believed, had been indicated to him in answer to prayer, and they
named it Natick, or the place of hills.  The inhabitants of Nonantum removed thither, and the
work was put in hand.  A bridge, eighty feet long and nine feet wide, had already been laid
across the river, entirely by Indian workmen, under Mr. Eliot's superintendence; and the town
was laid out in three streets, two on one side of the river and one on the other; the grounds
were measured and divided, apple-trees planted, and sowing begun.  The cellars of some of the
houses, it is said, remain to the present day.  In the midst was a circular fort, palisaded
with trees, and a large house built in the English style, though with only a day or two of
help from an English carpenter, the lower part of which was to serve as a place of worship
on Sunday, and for a school on other days, the upper part as a wardrobe and storehouse for
valuables, and with a room partitioned off, and known as "the prophet's chamber," for the use
of Mr. Eliot on his visits to the settlement.  Outside were canopies, formed by mats stretched
on poles, one for Mr. Eliot and his attendants, another for the men, and a third for the women.
These were apparently to shelter a sort of forum, and likewise to supplement the school-chapel
in warm weather.  A few English-built houses were raised; but the Indians found them expensive
and troublesome, and preferred the bark wigwams on improved principles.

The spot was secured to the Indians by the Council of Government, acting under the Commonwealth
at home; but the right of local self-government was vested in each township; and Eliot, as
the guide of his new settlers, could lead them to what he believed to be a truly scriptural
code, such as he longed to see prevail in his native land.  "Oh!" he exclaimed, "the blessed
day in England, when the Word of God shall be their Magna Carta and chief law book, and all
lawyers must be divines to study the Scripture."

His commencement in carrying out this system was to preach Jethro's advice to Moses, and thence
deduce that the Indians should divide themselves into hundreds and into tens, and elect rulers
for each division, each tithing man being responsible for the ten under him, each chief of
a hundred for the ten tithings.  This was done on the 6th of August, 1651; and Eliot declared
that it seemed to him as if he beheld the scattered bones he had spoken of in his first sermon
to the Indians, come bone to bone, and a civil political life begin.  His hundreds and tithings
were as much suggested by the traditional arrangements of King Alfred as by those of Moses
in the wilderness; and his next step was, in like manner, partly founded on Scripture, partly
on English history,--namely, the binding his Indians by a solemn covenant to serve the Lord,
and ratifying it on a fast-day.  His converts had often asked him why he held none of the great
fast-days with them that they saw the English hold, and he had always replied that there was
not a sufficient occasion, but he regarded this as truly important enough.  Moreover, a ship
containing some supplies, sent by the Society in England, had been wrecked, and the goods,
though saved, were damaged.  This he regarded as a frown of Providence and a fruit of sin.
Poor Cutshamakin also was in trouble again, having been drawn into a great revel, where much
spirits had been drunk; and his warm though unstable temper always made him ready to serve
as a public example of confession and humiliation.  So when, on the 24th of September, 1651,
Mr. Eliot had conducted the fast-day service, it began with Cutshamakin's confession; then
three Indians preached and prayed in turn, and Mr. Eliot finally preached on Ezra's great fast.
There was a pause for rest; then the assembly came together again, and before them Mr. Eliot
solemnly recited the terms of the Covenant, by which all were to bind themselves to the service
of the Lord, and which included all their principal laws.  He asked them whether they stood
to the Covenant.  All the chiefs first bound themselves, then the remainder of the people;
a collection was made for the poor; and so ended that "blessed day," as the happy apostle of
the Indians called it.

When Governor Endicot shortly after visited the place, he was greatly struck with the orderliness
and civilization he found there.  "I account this one of the best journeys I have made for
many years," he says.  Many little manufactures were carried on, in particular one of drums,
which were used for lack of bells in some of the American settlements, as a summons to come
to church.

There was a native schoolmaster, named Monequassum, who could write, read, and spell English
correctly, and under whom the children were making good progress.  Promising lads were trained
by Mr. Eliot himself, in hopes of making them act as missionaries among their brethren.  All
this time his praying Indians were not baptized, nor what he called "gathered into a Church
estate."  He seems to have been determined to have full proof of their stability before he
so accepted them; for it was from no inclination to Baptist views that he so long delayed receiving
them.  However, on the 13th of October, 1652, he convened his brother- ministers to hear his
Indians make public confession of their faith.  What the converts said was perfectly satisfactory;
but they were a long-winded race, accustomed to flowing periods; and as each man spoke for
himself, and his confession had to be copied down in writing, Mr. Eliot himself owns that their
"enlargement of spirit" did make "the work longsome."  So longsome it was, that while the schoolmaster
was speaking every one got restless, and there was a confusion; and the ministers, who had
a long dark ride through the woods before them, went away, and were hard to bring back again,
so that he had to finish hearing the declarations of faith alone.

Still, he cut off the baptism and organization of a church till he had sent all these confessions
to be considered by the Society in England, printed and published under the title of "Tears
of Repentance," with a dedication to Oliver Cromwell.  Then came other delays; some from the
jealousy and distrust of the English, who feared that the Indians were going to ally themselves
to the Dutch; some from the difficulty of getting pastors to join in the tedious task of listening
to the wordy confessions; and some from the distressing scandal of drunkenness breaking out
among the Indians, in spite of the strict discipline that always punished it.  It was not till
1660 that Mr. Eliot baptized any Indians, and the next day admitted them to the Lord's Supper,
nine years after he had begun to preach.  The numbers we do not know, but there is no doubt
that he received no adults except well proved and tried persons coming up to the Puritan standard
of sincerity and devotion.

At this time the Society at home was in great danger; for, on the Restoration, the charter
had become void, and, moreover, the principal estate that formed the endowment had been the
property of a Roman Catholic,--Colonel Bedingfield,--who resumed possession, and refused to
refund the purchase money, as considering the Society at an end.  It would probably have been
entirely lost, but for the excellent Robert Boyle, so notable at once for his science, piety,
and beneficence.  He placed the matter in its true light before Lord Clarendon, and obtained
by his means a fresh charter from Charles II.  The judgment in the Court of Chancery was given
in favour of the Society, and Boyle himself likewise endowed it with a third part of a grant
of the forfeited impropriations in Ireland which he had received from the king.  But all the
time there was a great disbelief in the efficacy of the work among the Indians both at home
and in New England.  It was the fashion to call all the stories of Indian conversions mere
devices for getting money, and the unhappy, proud hostility that almost always actuated the
ordinary English colonist in dealing with natives, was setting in in full force. However, at
Massachusetts, the general court appointed an English magistrate to hold a court of judicature
in conjunction with the chiefs of the Christian Indians, and to be in fact a sort of special
member of government on their behalf.  The first so appointed was Daniel Gookin, a man of great
piety, wisdom, and excellence, and a warm friend of Mr. Eliot, with whom he worked most heartily,
not only in dealing with the Indians of Natick, but with all those who came under English jurisdiction,
providing schools, and procuring the observance of the Sunday among them.  It was also provided
that the Christian Indians should set apart a tenth of all their produce for the support of
their teachers--a practice that Mr. Gookin defended from the charge of Judaism. It seems as
if these good men, who went direct to the Old Testament for their politics, must have been
hard set between their desire of scriptural authority and their dread of Judaizing.

It was well for Eliot that he had friends, for in the first flush of the tidings of the successes
of the Puritans in England, he had written a set of papers upon Government, entitled the "Christian
Commonwealth," which had been sent to England, and there lay dormant for nine or ten years,
until in the midst of all the excitement on the Restoration, this speculative work, the theory
of a scholar upon Christian democracy, was actually printed and launched upon the world at
home, whether by an enemy or by an ill-advised friend does not appear, and without the author's
consent.  Complaints of this as a seditious book came out to New England, and John Eliot was
forced to appear before the court, when he owned the authorship, but disowned the publication,
and retracted whatever might have declared the Government of England, by King, Lords, and Commons,
to be anti-Christian, avowing it to be "not only a lawful but eminent form of government, and
professing himself ready to conform to any polity that could be deduced from Scripture as being
of Divine authority."  The court was satisfied, and suppressed the book, while publishing Mr.
Eliot's retractation.  Some have sneered at his conduct on this occasion as an act of moral
cowardice; but it would be very hard if every man were bound to stand to all the political
views expressed in an essay never meant for the general eye, ten years old, and written in
the enthusiasm of the commencement of an experiment, which to the Presbyterian mind had proved
a grievous disappointment.

He had a much more important work in hand than the defence of old dreams of the reign of the
saints--for the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in New England had just finished
printing his translation of the New Testament, Wusku Wuttestermentum as it was called, and
in two years more the Old Testament was finished.  A copy was presented to Charles II., to
the Chancellor Clarendon, and to the two Universities in England, as well as to Harvard College.
It was in the Mohican dialect, which was sufficiently like that of the neighbouring tribes
to serve for them, and had all the correctness that the scholarship and philology of the time
could furnish.  There is a story that Eliot wrote the whole with a single pen.  It went through
a good many editions, but is now very rare, and with Eliot's Catechism, and translations of
Baxter's chief works, and a metrical version of the Psalms, remains the only vestige of the
language of the Mohicans.

There were now several Indian congregations, one in especial at the island called Martha's
Vineyard, under the charge of an Indian pastor, John Hiacoomes, who is said to have been the
first red-skinned convert, and who had made proof of much true Christian courage.  Once in
the act of prayer he received a severe blow from a Sachem, and would have been killed if some
English had not been present; but all his answer was, "I have two hands.  I had one hand for
injuries, and the other for God. While I did receive wrong with the one, the other laid the
greater hold on God."

When some of the Powaws, or medicine men, were boasting that they could, if they would, destroy
all the praying Indians at once, Hiacoomes made reply: "Let all the Powaws in the island come
together, I'll venture myself in the midst among them all.  Let them use all their witchcrafts.
With the help of God, I'll tread upon them all!"

By which defiance he wonderfully "heartened" his flock, who, Christians as they were, had still
been beset by the dread of the magic arts, in which, as we have seen, even their White teachers
did not wholly disbelieve.

Such a man as this was well worthy of promotion, and Mr. Eliot hoped to educate his more promising
scholars, so as to supply a succession of learned and trained native pastors.  Two young men,
named Joel and Caleb, were sent to Harvard College, Cambridge, where they both were gaining
distinguished success, and were about to take their degree, when Joel, who had gone home on
a visit, was wrecked on the Island of Nantucket, and, with the rest of the ship's company,
was either drowned or murdered by the Indians.  The name of Caleb, Chee-shah-teau-muck, Indus,
is still to be seen in the registers of those who took their degree, and there are two Latin
and Greek elegies remaining, which he composed on the death of an eminent minister, bearing
his signature, with the addition, Senior Sophister.  How curiously do the Hebrew, Greek, and
Latin proclaim themselves the universal languages, thus blending with the uncouth Mohican word!
Caleb's constitution proved unable to endure College discipline and learning, and he died of
decline soon after taking his degree.  Consumption was very frequent among the Indians, as
it so often is among savages suddenly brought to habits of civilization, and it seems to have
mown down especially the more intellectual of the Indians; Monequassum, the first schoolmaster
at Natick, among them.  An Indian College, which had been established at Cambridge, failed
from the deaths of some scholars and the discouragement of others, and had to be turned into
a printing house, and the energetic and indefatigable Eliot did the best he could by giving
courses of lectures in logic and theology to candidates for the ministry at Natick, and even
printed an "Indian logick primer."  It was a wonderful feat, considering the loose unwieldy
words of the language.

From 1660 to 1675 were Eliot's years of chief success.  His own vigour was unabated, and he
had Major Gookin's hearty co-operation.  There had been time for a race of his own pupils to
grow up; and there had not been time for the first love of his converts to wax cool.  There
had been a long interval of average peace and goodwill between English and natives, and there
seemed good reason to suppose that Christianity and civilization would keep them friends, if
not fuse them together.  There were eleven hundred Christian Indians, according to Eliot and
Gookin's computation, with six regularly constituted "churches" after the fashion of Natick,
and fourteen towns, of which seven were called old and seven new, where praying Indians lived,
for the most part, in a well-conducted, peaceable manner, though now and then disorderly conduct
would take place, chiefly from drunkenness.  Several Sachems had likewise been converted, in
especial Wanalanset, the eldest son of the famous old chief Passaconnaway.  After four years
of hesitation whether he should, as he said, quit his old canoe and embark in a new one, he
came to the conclusion that the old canoe was floating down the stream of destruction, and
manfully embraced the faith, although at the cost of losing many of his tribe, who deserted
him on his profession of Christianity.

But there is always a period of check and disappointment in every great and holy work.  The
tide of evil may be driven into ebb for a time, but it always rallies and flows back upon the
servant of God, and usually when the prime of his strength is past, and he is less able to
withstand.  Often the next generation does see the success, and gather the fruits; but the
strong, wise, scholarly, statesman-like Apostle of the Indians was destined to see his work
swept away like snow before the rage and fury of man, and to leave behind him little save a
great witness and example.  At least he had the comfort of knowing that the evil did not arise
among his own children in the faith, but came from causes entirely external, and as much to
be preferred as persecution is better than corruption.

The Sachem nearest to Plymouth had been at the first arrival of the Pilgrim Fathers, Massasoiet,
chief of the Wampanongs, who had kept the peace out of fear.  His son Alexander had followed
his example, but it was current among the English that he had died of "choler," on being detected
in a plot against them, and his successor, Philip, was a man of more than common pride, fierceness,
cunning, and ability.  These were only names given them by the English; none of them were Christians.
Mr. Eliot had made some attempts upon Philip, but had been treated with scorn.  The Sachem,
twisting a button upon the minister's coat, told him he cared not that for his Gospel; but
Major Gookin had some hopes of having touched his heart.

However, there were indications that he was endeavouring to unite all the surrounding tribes
in an alliance against the colony.  A murder of an Englishman had taken place, and the Government
at Plymouth required all natives to surrender the fire-arms they had obtained from the English.
Even Philip consented to deliver them up until the English should see no further cause for
detaining them.  Upon this, in June 1671, Eliot wrote a remarkable letter to Mr. Prince, the
Governor of Plymouth, requiring him not to detain the arms, especially of Philip.  "My reasons
are," he says, "first, lest we render ourselves more afraid of them and their guns than indeed
we are or have cause to be.  Alas! it is not the gun, but the man; nor, indeed, is it the man,
but our sin that we have cause to be afraid of.  Secondly, your so doing will open an effectual
door to the entertainment of the Gospel."  Probably Mr. Eliot was right, and the keeping the
arms only irritated the high-spirited chief, who said to the messenger of the Governor of Massachusetts,
"Your governor is but a subject.  I will not treat but with my brother, King Charles of England."

For four years enmity smouldered on.  The rights of the dispute will never be known.  The settlers
laid all upon Philip's machinations, except those who lived near his wigwams and knew him best;
and they said that so far from entering into a conspiracy, he always deplored the war, but
was forced on by the rage and fury of the young braves, over whom the Sachems had no real power,
and who wanted to signalize their valour, and could not fail to have their pride insulted by
the demeanour of the ordinary English.  One instance of brutality on the river Saco is said
to have been the immediate cause of the war in that district.  Some English sailors, seeing
a canoe with an Indian woman and her infant, and having heard that a papoose could swim like
a duck, actually upset the canoe to make the experiment.  The poor baby sank, and the mother
dived and brought it up alive, but it died so soon after, that the loss was laid to the charge
of the cruel men by the father, who was a Sachem named Squando, of considerable dignity and
influence, a great medicine man.

On Philip's border to the southward, a plantation called Swawny was attacked and burnt by the
Indians in the June of 1675.  He is said to have shed tears (impassible Indian as he was) at
the tidings, foreseeing the utter ruin of his people; and, twenty days after, Squando's influence
led to another attack 200 miles off, and this was viewed as a sign of complicity with Philip.

There was deadly terror among the English.  The Indians swarmed down at night on lonely villages
and farmhouses, slew, scalped, burnt, and now and then carried off prisoners to be tortured
to death, and children to tell by and by strange tales of life in the wigwams.  The militia
were called out, but left their houses unprotected.  At Newich-wannock, the farmhouse of a
man named Tozer was attacked by the Indians when only tenanted by fifteen women and children.
A girl of eighteen, who was the first to see the approach, bravely shut the door and set her
back against it; thus giving time for the others to escape by another door to a better secured
building.  The Indians chopped the door to pieces with their hatchets, knocked the girl down,
left her for dead, and hurried on in pursuit of the others, but only came up with two poor
little children, who had not been able to get over the fence.  The rest were saved, and the
brave girl recovered from her wounds; but other attacks ended far more fatally for the sufferers,
and the rage and alarm of the New Englanders were great.  A few of the recently taught and
unbaptized Indians from what were called the "new praying towns" had joined their countrymen;
and though the great body of the converts were true and faithful, the English confounded them
all in one common hatred to the Red- skin.  The magistrates and Government were not infected
by this blind passion, and did all they could to restrain it, showing trust in the Christian
natives by employing them in the war, when they rendered good and faithful service; but the
commonalty, who were in the habit of viewing the whole people as Hivites and Jebusites, treated
these allies with such distrust and contumely as was quite enough to alienate them.

In July 1675, three Christian Indians were sent as guides and interpreters to an expedition
to treat with the Indians in the Nipmuck country.  One was made prisoner, but the two officers
in command gave the fullest testimony to the good conduct of the other two; nevertheless they
were so misused on their return that Mr. Gookin declared that they had been, by ill-treatment,
"in a manner constrained to fall off to the enemy."  One was killed by a scouting party of
praying Indians; the other was taken, sold as a slave, and sent to Jamaica; and though Mr.
Eliot prevailed to have him brought back, and redeemed his wife and children, he was still
kept in captivity.

The next month, August, a number of the Christian Indians were arrested and sent up to Boston
to be tried for some murders that had been committed at Lancaster.  Eliot and Gookin succeeded
in proving their perfect innocence, but the magistrates had great difficulty in saving their
lives from the fury of the mob, who thirsted for Indian blood, and both minister and major
were insulted and reviled, so that Gookin said on the bench that it was not safe for him to
walk in the streets; and when Eliot met with a dangerous boat accident, wishes were expressed
that he had been drowned.

Natick was looked upon with so much distrust and aversion that Government, fearing occasions
of bloodshed, decided that the inhabitants must be removed to Deer Island.  On the 7th of October
a great fast-day, with prayer and preaching, had been held, and fierce and bitter entreaties
had been uttered against the Indian Sachems, especially Philip.  One wonders whether Eliot--now
seventy-one years old--felt it come home to him that he knew not what spirit he had been of
when he had prayed for the death of the Moorish prince.  It must have been a heart- breaking
time for the aged man, to see the spot founded in so much hope and prayer, the fruit of so
much care and meditation, thus broken up and ruined, and when he was too old to do the like
work over again.  At the end of that month of October, Captain Thomas Prentiss, with a party
of horse and five or six carts, arrived at Natick, and made known the commands of the Government.
Sadly but patiently the Indians submitted. Two hundred men, women, and children were made to
get together all they could carry, and marched from their homes to the banks of the Charles
River.  Here, at a spot called the Pines, Mr. Eliot met them, and they gathered round him to
hear his words of comfort, as he exhorted them to meek patience, resignation, and steadiness
to the faith.  The scene was exceedingly affecting, as the white-haired pastor stood by the
river-side beneath the tall pines, with his dark-skinned, newly reclaimed children about him,
clinging to him for consolation, but neither murmuring nor struggling, only praying and encouraging
one another.  Captain Prentiss and his soldiers were deeply touched; but at midnight, when
the tide was high enough, three large boats bore the Indians over to Deer Island.  Here they
were, transplanted from their comfortable homes in the beginning of a long and very severe
winter; but, well divided by the river from all suspicion of doing violence, they fared better
than the praying Indians of the new town of Wamesit.  A barn full of hay and corn had been
burnt, and fourteen men of Chelmsford, the next settlement, concluding it had been done by
the Wamesit Red-skins, went thither, called them out of their wigwams, and then fired at them,
killing a lad and five women and children.  After all, the fire had been caused by some skulking
heathen Indians; but though the Government obtained the arrest of the murderers, the jury would
not find them guilty.  The Wamesit Indians fled into the forest, and sent a piteous letter:--"We
are not sorry for what we leave behind, but we are sorry that the English have driven us from
our praying to God and from our teacher.  We did begin to understand praying to God a little."
They were invited back, but were afraid to come till cold and hunger drove them to their old
abode, and then the indefatigable Eliot and Gookin visited them, and did all in their power
to bring about a better feeling towards them in Chelmsford.

This whole autumn and winter--a terribly severe one--seems to have been spent by these good
men in trying to heal the strifes between the English and the Indians.  Wanalanset had fled,
true to his father's policy of never resisting, and they were sent to invite him back again;
but when he returned, he found that the maize grounds of his settlement had been ploughed up
by the English and sown with rye, so that his tribe had most scanty subsistence.

Several settlements of Christians were deported to Deer Island.  One large party had been made
prisoners by their heathen countrymen and had managed to escape, but when met with wandering
in the woods by a party of English soldiers, were plundered of the little the heathens had
left them, in especial of a pewter cup, their communion plate, which Mr. Eliot had given them,
and which was much treasured by their native pastor.  The General interfered in their behalf,
but could not protect them from much ill-usage.  The teacher was sent with his old father and
young children to Boston, where Mr. Eliot saw and cheered him before he was conveyed to Deer
Island.  There, in December, Eliot, with Gookin and other friends, frequently visited the Indians,
now five hundred in number, and found them undergoing many privations, but patient, resigned,
and unmurmuring. The snow was four feet deep in the woods by the 10th of December that year,
and the exertion and exposure of travelling, either on snow-shoes or sledges, must have been
tremendous to a man of Mr. Eliot's age; but he never seems to have intermitted his labours
in carrying spiritual and temporal succour to his people, and in endeavouring to keep the peace
between them and the English.

The hard winter had had a great effect in breaking the strength of the enemy, and they were
much more feeble on the renewal of the war in the spring.  The good conduct of the praying
Indians had overcome the popular prejudice so much that it was decided to employ them to assist
the scanty forces of the English in hunting down the hostile tribes, and Gookin boasts of their
having taken and slain more than 400 foes in the course of the summer of 1676, which one would
scarcely think was very good for their recent Christianity.  In the mean time, the absence
of all the able- bodied men and hunters reduced their families to such distress that serious
illness broke out among them, and Major Gookin caused them to be brought to the neighbourhood
of Cambridge, where there was good fishing, and where he could attend to them, and provide
them with food, clothing, and medicine.

In August Philip was killed, the English believing themselves to "have prayed the bullet straight
into his heart;" and his head was carried about on a pole, in a manner we should have called
worthy of the Indians themselves, did we not recollect that there were a good many city gates
at home with much the same kind of trophy, while his wife and children--miserable fate!--were,
like many others of the captives, sold into slavery to the sugar planters in Jamaica.

After this the war did not entirely cease, but the Christian Indians were allowed to creep
back to their old settlements at Nonantum, and even at Natick, where Mr. Eliot continued periodically
to visit and instruct them; but after this unhappy war there were only four instead of fourteen
towns of Christian Indians in Massachusetts, and a blow had been given to his mission that
it never recovered.

Still there was a splendid energy and resolution about this undaunted old man, now writing
a narrative of the Gospel History in his seventy-fourth year, now sending Robert Boyle new
physical facts, now protesting hard against the cruel policy of selling captive Indians into
slavery.  What must not the slavery of the West Indian isles, which had already killed off
their native Caribbeans, have been to these free hunters of the North American forest, too
proud to work for themselves, and bred in a climate of cold, dry, bracing air?  And even in
the West Indies, a shipload of these miserable creatures was refused in the over-stocked market,
and the horrors of the slave-ship were prolonged across the Atlantic, till at last Mr. Eliot
traced the unhappy freight to Tangier.  He at once wrote to conjure the excellent Mr. Boyle
to endeavour to have them redeemed and sent home,--with what success, or if any were left alive,
does not appear.

He had the pleasure of seeing a son of good Major Gookin become the minister of a district
including Natick, and likewise of the ordination at Natick of an Indian named Daniel Takawombgrait.
Of his own six children only one son and one daughter survived him.  Benjamin, the youngest
son, was his coadjutor at Roxbury, and was left in charge there while he circulated amongst
his Indians, and would have succeeded him. The loss of this son must have fallen very heavily
on him; but "the good old man would sometimes comfortably say, 'I have had six children, and
I bless God for His free grace; they are all either with Christ or in Christ, and my mind is
now at rest concerning them.'"

When asked how he could bear the death of such excellent children, his answer was, "My desire
was that they should have served God on earth, but if God will choose to have them rather serve
Him in heaven, I have nothing to object against it, but His will be done."

His last letter to Mr. Boyle was written in his eighty-fourth year, and was a farewell but
a cheerful one, and he had good hopes then of a renewal of the spirit of missions among his
people.  But though his Christians did not bely their name in his own generation, alcohol did
its work on some, consumption on others; and, in 1836, when Jabez Sparks wrote his biography,
there was one wigwam at Natick inhabited by a few persons of mingled Indian and Negro blood,
the sole living remnants of the foundation he had loved so well.  Nevertheless, Eliot's work
was not wasted.  The spark he lit has never gone out wholly in men's minds.

His wife died in 1684, at a great age, and her elegy over her coffin were these words from
himself: "Here lies my dear faithful, pious, prudent, prayerful wife.  I shall go to her, but
she shall not return to me."

He had become very feeble, and was wont to say, when asked how he did, "Alas!  I have lost
everything: my understanding leaves me, my memory fails me, my utterance fails me, but, I thank
God, my charity holds out still; I find that rather grows than fails."

He was forced to give up the duties of his office to a new pastor, and though often entreated
to preach again, he would hardly ever do so, by reason, he said, that it would be wronging
the souls of his people, when they had an able minister; and when he preached for the last
time on a fast day, on the 63rd Psalm, it was with an apology for what he called the poorness,
and meanness, and brokenness of his meditations.

"I wonder," he used to say, "for what the Lord lets me live.  He knows that now I can do nothing
for Him."

Yet he was working for Him to the utmost of his power.  A little boy in the neighbourhood had
fallen into the fire, and lost his eyesight in consequence.  The old minister took him into
his house to instruct, and first taught him to repeat many chapters in the Bible, and to know
it so thoroughly that when listening to readers he could correct them if they missed a word;
after which he taught him Latin, so that an "ordinary piece" had become easy to him.  So, old
as he was, he induced the settlers around to send him their negroes on certain days of the
week for instruction; but he had not made much progress in the work before he became too feeble
to carry it on.  He fell into languishments attended with fever, and this he viewed as his
summons.  His successor, Mr. Nehemiah Walters, came to live with him, and held a good deal
of conversation with him.

"There is a cloud," he said, "a dark cloud upon the work of the Gospel among the poor Indians.
The Lord renew and prosper that work, and grant it may live when I am dead.  It is a work which
I have been doing much and long about.  But what was the word I spoke last?  I recall that
word. My doings.  Alas! they have been poor and small, and lean doings, and I'll be the man
that shall throw the first stone at them all."

Mather relates that he spake other words "little short of oracles," and laments that they were
not correctly recorded; but it appears that he gradually sank, and died in his eighty-seventh
year of age, at Roxbury, in the year 1690.  His last words were, "Welcome joy."

CHAPTER II.  DAVID BRAINERD, THE ENTHUSIAST.

The Indian pastor of Natick, who had been trained by Mr. Eliot, died in 1716, and two years
later was born one of the men who did all in his power, through his brief life, to hold up
the light of truth to the unfortunate natives of America, as they were driven further and further
to the west before the advancing tide from Europe.

The fourth son among nine children, who lost both parents at a very early age, David Brainerd,
though born above the reach of want, had many disadvantages to contend with.  Both his parents
had, however, been religious people, the children of ministers who had come out to America
in the days of the Pilgrim Fathers, and settling at Haddam in Connecticut, trained up their
families in the stern, earnest, and rigid rules and doctrines of Calvinism, which certainly,
where they are accepted by an earnest and thoughtful mind, have a great tendency to stimulate
the intellect, and force forward, as it were, the religious perceptions in early youth.  David
was, moreover, a delicate child, with the seeds of (probably) hereditary decline incipient,
and at seven or eight years old he drew apart from play, thinking much of death, and trying
to prepare by prayer and meditation.  His parents' death increased these feelings, and while
living at East Haddam, under the charge of his brothers, and employed in farm work, the boy
was continually struggling with himself in silence, disliking all youthful mirth and amusement,
fasting, watching and praying, and groaning over the state of his soul. At nineteen, the wish
to become a minister came upon him, and he began to study hard at all spare moments; and in
another year, at twenty, he went to reside with Mr. Fiske, the minister of Haddam, and in him
found, for the first time, a friend to whom he could open his heart, who could understand the
anxieties and longings within him, and who gave him advice to withdraw himself from the young
companions whose gay spirits were uncongenial to him, and spend more time with the graver and
more religious.

Whether this were good advice we do not know, but a period of terrible agony had to be struggled
through.  It seems plain, from comparison of different lives, that in the forms of religion
which make everything depend upon the individual person's own consciousness of the state of
his heart and feelings, instead of supporting this by any outward tokens for faith to rest
upon, the more humble and scrupulous spirits often undergo fearful misery before they can attain
to such security of their own faith as they believe essential.  Indeed, this state of wretchedness
is almost deemed a necessary stage in the Christian life, like the Slough of Despond in the
Pilgrim's Progress; and with such a temperament as David Brainerd's, the horrors of the struggle
for hope were dreadful and lasted for months, before an almost physical perception of light,
glory, and grace shone out upon him, although, even to the end of his life, hope and fear,
spiritual joy and depression alternated, no doubt, greatly in consequence of his constant ill-health.

In 1739, in his twenty-first year, he became a student at Yale, and, between hard work and
his mental self-reproach for the worldly ambition of distinction, his health broke down, haemorrhage
from the lungs set in, and he was sent home, it was supposed, only to die.  He was then in
a very happy frame of mind, and was almost sorry to find himself well enough to return to what
he felt to be a scene of temptation.  That same year, his head was entirely turned by the excitement
of George Whitfield's preaching; he was carried away by religious enthusiasm, and was in a
state of indiscreet zeal, of which his better judgment afterwards repented, so that he destroyed
all the portion of his journal that related to that year.  Indeed, his vehemence cost him dear,
for, in the heat of a discussion, he had the misfortune to say, "Mr. Whittlesey, he has no
more grace than this chair I am leaning upon."  Mr. Whittlesey was one of the college tutors,
and a gossiping freshman who overheard the words thought proper to report this to a meddling
woman, who immediately walked off to the Rector of the college with the awful intelligence
that young Brainerd said that Mr. Whittlesey had no more grace than a chair!

The Rector had not the sense to silence the silly slander; he sent for the freshman, took his
evidence, and that of the young men with whom Brainerd had been conversing, and then required
him to make public confession and amends to Mr. Whittlesey before the whole assembled college,--a
humiliation never previously required, except in cases of gross moral misconduct.  The fact
was, that the old-fashioned hereditary Presbyterianism, which had had time to slacken in the
hundred years since the foundation of the colony, was dismayed at the new and vivid life imported
by Whitfield from the Wesleyan revival in the English Church.  It was what always happens.
A mixture of genuine sober-minded dread of extravagance, or new doctrine, and a sluggish distaste
to the more searching religion, combine to lead to a spirit of persecution.  This was the true
reason that the lad's youthful rashness of speech was treated as so grave an offence.  Brainerd's
spirit was up.  Probably he saw no cause to alter his opinion as to Mr. Whittlesey's amount
of grace, and he stoutly refused to retract his words, whereupon he was found guilty of insubordination,
and actually expelled from Yale.  A council of ministers who assembled at Hartford petitioned
for his restoration, but were refused, the authorities deeming themselves well rid of a dangerous
fanatic.

Still, as a youth of blameless life and ardent piety, he was encouraged by his friends to continue
his preparation for the ministry, and he persisted in reading hard, and going out between whiles
to meditate in the depths of the glorious woods.  It is curious that while his homely and rigid
system precluded any conscious admiration of the beauties of nature, it is always evident from
his journal that the lightenings of hope and joy which relieved his too frequent depression
and melancholy, were connected with the scenery and the glories of day and night.  Sunrise
and the aurora borealis seem to have filled him with spiritual bliss, and he never was so happy
as when deep in the woods, out of the sight of men; but his morbid, sensitive, excitable nature
never seems to have been understood by himself or by others.

Just as John Eliot's missionary zeal was the outcome of the earnestness that carried the Puritans
to New England, so the fresh infusion of religious life, brought by Whitfield, produced an
ardent desire on the part of David Brainerd to devote himself to the remainder of the Indians;
and in the year 1742, at twenty-five years old, he was examined by an assembly of ministers
at Danbury, and licensed to preach the Gospel, when he began at once with a little settlement
of Indians at Kent, with such a sinking of heart at his own unworthiness that he says he seemed
to himself worse than any devil, and almost expected to have been stoned rather than listened
to.  Indeed, something of this diffidence and sadness seems always to have weighed him down
when he began to preach, though the fervour of his subject and the responding faces of his
audience always exhilarated him and bore him up through his sermon.  To learn the Indian language
had not occurred to him as part of his preparation, but probably these Kent Red men had been
enough among the English to understand him, for they seem to have been much impressed.

A Scottish Society for propagating Christian Knowledge had arisen, and the delegates hearing
of the zeal of David Brainerd, desired to engage him at a salary.  The sense of his own unworthiness,
and fear of keeping out a better man, brought his spirits down to the lowest ebb; nevertheless,
he went to meet the representatives of the Society at New York, and there, though between the
hubbub of the town and his own perpetual self-condemnation he was continually wretched, they
were so well satisfied with him as to give him the appointment, on condition that he studied
the language, intending to send him to the Red men between the Susquehanna and the Delaware;
but there was a dispute between these and the Government, and it was decided to send him to
a settlement called Kanaumeek, between Stockbridge and Albany.

Before going, David Brainerd, having no thought beyond devotion to the Indians, and thinking
his allowance enough for his wants, gave up the whole of his inheritance to support a scholar
at the University, and set forth, undaunted by such weakness of health as in ordinary eyes
would have fitted him for nothing but to be carefully nursed; for even then he was continually
suffering from pain and dizziness, and weakness so great that he could often hardly stand.

In this state he arrived at Kanaumeek, with a young Indian to act as his interpreter, and there
spent the first night sleeping on a heap of straw. It was a lonely, melancholy spot, where
the Indians were herded together, watched with jealous eyes by adventurers who were always
endeavouring to seize their lands, and sadly degenerated from the free, grave, high-spirited
men to whom Eliot had preached.  His first lodging was in the log house of a poor Scotchman
who lived among the Indians--a single chamber, without so much as a floor, and where he shared
the family meals upon porridge, boiled corn, and girdle-cakes.  The family spoke Gaelic, only
the master of the house knowing any English, and that not so good as the Indian interpreter's;
and, moreover, the spot was a mile and a half from the Indian wigwams, no small consideration
to so weakly a man, thus poorly fed.  However, the Indians were pleased with his addresses,
and seemed touched by them; but the evil habits of the White men were the terrible stumbling-block.
Parties of them would come into the town, and vex the missionary's ears with their foul tongues,
making a scandalous contrast to the grave, calm manners of the Indians.  More than ever did
he love solitude, and when with his own hands he had built himself a log hut, where he could
be alone when he pleased, his relief was great.

He was not the highly educated scholar and practical theorist that his predecessor had been:
he seems to have had no plans or systems, and merely to have tried to fulfil immediate needs;
but he soon found that he could not hope to benefit his Red flock without a school, so he made
a journey to New Jersey to entreat for means to set one up, and this was done, with his interpreter
as master.  His journey was made on horseback, and was no small undertaking, for even between
Stockbridge and Kanaumeek he had once lost his way, and had to sleep a night in the woods.

He had by this time thoroughly repented of the uncharitableness and hastiness of his speech
about Mr. Whittlesey, and he took a journey to New Haven to send in a thoroughly humble and
Christian-like apology, requesting to be permitted to take his degree.  Twice he was refused,
and the third time was told that the only condition on which the degree would be granted would
be the making up his term of residence at Yale, which was, of course, not possible to a licensed
minister in full employment, and in fact was an insulting proposal to a man of his standing
and character.

His journey cost him dear, for as he was riding home he was attacked with violent pain in the
face and shiverings, which forced him to halt at the first shelter he could find, happily with
kind friends, who nursed him for a fortnight before he could return home.  He believed that
had his illness seized him in his log house at home, he must certainly have died for want of
care and attendance, although he was much beloved by his poor Indians.

His life was indeed a frightfully hard one, and would have been so for a healthy man; for he
had to work with his own hands to store provisions for his horse in the winter, and that when
weak and suffering the more for want of proper food.  He could get no bread but by riding ten
or fifteen miles to procure it, and if he brought home too much it became mouldy and sour,
while, if he brought home a small quantity, he could not go for more if he failed to catch
his horse, which was turned out to graze in the woods; so that he was reduced to making little
cakes of Indian meal, which he fried in the ashes.  "And then," he says, "I blessed God as
if I had been a king."  "I have a house and many of the comforts of life to support me," he
says with great satisfaction; and the solitude of that house was so precious to him that, however
weary he was, he would ride back twenty miles to it at night rather than spend an evening among
ungodly men.  By this terrible stinting of what we should deem the necessaries of life, he
was actually able, in fifteen months, to devote a hundred pounds to charitable purposes, besides
keeping the young man at the University.

So much, however, did he love his solitude, that he counted it as no relief, but an affliction,
to have to ride to Stockbridge from time to time to learn the Indian language from Mr. Sergeant,
the missionary there stationed.  Something of this must have been morbid feeling, something
from the want of energy consequent on the condition of his frame.  For a man in confirmed decline
such an entry in a journal as this is no trifle:--"December 20.--Rode to Stockbridge.  Was
very much fatigued with my journey, wherein I underwent great hardship; was much exposed, and
very wet by falling into a river."  Mr. Sergeant could hardly have been profane company, but
Brainerd never enjoyed these visits, thinking that intercourse with the world made him less
familiar with heaven.

Another inconvenience was the proximity of Kanaumeek to the frontier, and these were the days
of that horrid war between England and France in America, when the native allies of each nation
made savage descents on the outlying settlements, inflicting all the flagrant outrages of their
wild warfare.  A message came one evening to Kanaumeek from Colonel Stoddart, warning all in
exposed situations to secure themselves as well as possible, since an attack might come at
any moment; and this Brainerd quietly records as a salutary warning not to attach himself too
much to the comforts of life he enjoyed.

The attack was never made, but he came to the conclusion that his small congregation of Indians
would be much better with their fellows at Stockbridge under the care of Mr. Sergeant, and
that this would leave him free to go to more wild and untaught tribes.  It was carried out,
and the Indians removed.  There was much mutual love between them and their pastor, and the
parting was very affectionate, though even after two years he was still unable to speak the
language, and never seems to have troubled himself about this trifling obstacle.  Several English
congregations entreated him to become their minister, but he refused them all, and went to
meet the Commissioners of the Scottish Society at New Jersey.  They arranged with him for a
mission to the Delaware Indians, in spite of his being laid up for some days at the time; and
when he went back to Kanaumeek to dispose of his books and other "comforts," the effects of
being drenched with rain showed themselves in continued bleeding from the lungs.  He knew that
he was often in an almost dying state, and only wished to continue in his Master's service
to the end he longed for.  He owns that his heart did sometimes sink at the thought of going
alone into the wilderness; but he thought of Abraham, and took courage, riding alone through
the depths of the forest, so desolate and lonely day after day, that it struck terror even
into his soul.  There were scanty settlements of Dutch and Irish, where he sometimes spent
a night, but the Sunday he passed among some Irish was so entirely unmarked by them, that he
felt like a "creature banished from the sight of God."

At last he reached his destination on the fork of the river Delaware, and being within moderate
distance of Newark, there received ordination as a minister on the 11th of June, 1744.  Severe
illness followed the exertion of preaching and praying before the convened ministers; but as
soon as he could walk, he set forth on his return, though he was so weak that he could hardly
open his numbed hand, but his heart and hopes had begun to revive, and the little settlement
of Whites with whom he lived were willing to listen to him.

The Indians were in the midst of preparing for an idolatrous feast and dance.  Brainerd spent
a day in the woods in an anguish of prayer, and then went to the place of meeting, where, stranger
as he was, he prevailed on them to cease their revels and attend to him.

His biographer, President Jonathan Edwards, provokingly leaves out his method of teaching,
"for the sake of brevity," and from his own diary little is to be gathered but accounts of
his state of feeling through endless journeyings and terrible prostrations of strength.  He
was always travelling about--now to the Susquehanna, now back to New England--apparently at
times with the restlessness of disease, for this roving about must have prevented him from
ever deepening the impression made by his preaching, which after all was only through an interpreter,
for he never gave himself time to learn the language.

Yet after some months he did find a settlement of Indians, about eighty miles from the fork
of Delaware, at a place called Crossweeksung, who were far more disposed to attend to him.
They listened so eagerly, that day after day they would travel after him from village to village,
hardly taking any heed to secure provisions for themselves.  The description of their conduct
is like that of those touched by Wesleyan preaching.  They threw themselves on the ground,
wept bitterly, and prayed aloud, with the general enthusiasm of excitement, though, he expressly
says, without fainting or convulsions, and even the White men around, who came to scoff, were
deeply impressed.

David Brainerd had at last his hour of bliss!  He was delivered from his melancholy by the
joy of such results, and in trembling happiness baptized his converts in the river beside their
wigwams before leaving them to proceed to a village on the Susquehanna, where he hoped for
an interview with the chief Sachem of the Delawares.

The place, however, was in the wildest confusion and uproar, it being the period of a great
festival, when every one was too tipsy to attend to him.  At an island called Juneauta, he
met a very remarkable personage, a Powaw, who bore the reputation of a reformer, anxious to
restore the ancient religion of the Red man, which had become corrupted by intercourse with
the White and his vices.

His aspect was the most dreadful thing Brainerd had ever seen.  He wore a shaggy bearskin coat,
hood, and stockings, and a hideous, painted mask, so that no part of his person was visible,
not even the hand in which he held an instrument made of the shell of a tortoise, with dry
corn within, and he came up rattling this, and dancing with all his might, and with such gesticulations
that, though assured that he intended no injury, it was impossible not to shrink back as this
savage creature came close.

Yet he was a thoughtful man, such as would have been a philosopher in ancient Greece or Rome.
He took the missionary into his hut, and conversed long and earnestly with him.  He had revolted
in spirit from the degradation of his countrymen, and had gone to live apart in the woods,
where he had worked out a system of natural religion for himself, which he believed the Great
Spirit had taught him, and which had at last led him to return to his people and endeavour
to restore them to that purity which of course he believed to have once existed.  He believed
there were good men somewhere, and he meant to wander till he found them; meantime, he was
kindly to all who came near him, and constantly uplifted his testimony against their vices,
especially when the love of strong drink was brought among them.  When all was in vain, he
would go weeping away into the woods, and hide himself there till the hateful fire-water was
all consumed and the madness over.  Brainerd was greatly touched by this red-skinned Epictetus,
who, he said, had more honesty, sincerity, and conscientiousness than he had ever met with
in an Indian, and more of the temper of true religion; and he expounded to him the Christian
doctrine with great carefulness and double earnestness.  The self-taught philosopher broke
in now and then with "Now that I like,"--"So the Great Spirit has taught me;" but when the
missionary came to the regions where faith surpasses the power of the intellect and the moral
sense, the Indian would not follow him, and rejected his teaching.  It was curious that he
particularly denied the idea of a devil, declaring that there was no such being, according
to the ancient Indians.  Now, the incantations of the Powaws were generally supposed to be
addressed to evil spirits, and probably the perception of the falsehood of these pretended
rites led to his disclaiming the Christian doctrine.

Whether time and further teaching would have overpowered his belief in his own inspiration
does not appear, for Brainerd found the Indians too vicious and hardened to pay the least heed
either to him or to their own reformer; and he went back to Crossweeksung, where his flock
was still increasing, and in a most satisfactory condition, renouncing their heathen customs
and their acquired vice of drunkenness, and practising some amount of industry.  A school was
set up, old and young learnt English, the children in three or four months could read the Bible
in English, and Brainerd's sermons and prayers were understood without an interpreter.

This improved condition of the Indians destroyed the shameful profits of the nearest settlement
of Whites, whose practice it had hitherto been to entice them to drink, and then run up a heavy
score against them for liquor.  Finding that all endeavours to seduce them into drunkenness
were now vain, these wretches first tried to raise the country against Brainerd, by reporting
that he was a Roman Catholic in disguise; and when this failed, they laid claim to the lands
of Crossweeksung, in discharge of debts that they declared to have been previously contracted.
Fortunately, Brainerd had it in his power to advance 82l. from his private means, so as to
save his people from this extortion; but he afterwards thought it best to remove them from
these dangerous neighbours to a new settlement, fifteen miles off, called Cranberry.  He remained
himself in his little hut at Crossweeksung, after they had proceeded to raise wigwams and prepare
the ground for maize; but, whenever he rode over to visit them, his approach was notified by
the sound of a conch shell, and they all gathered round for his prayers and instruction.

His success with them seems to have greatly cured his depression of spirits, but his mind was
balancing between the expedience of remaining among them as their permanent pastor, protector,
and guide, and that of striving to extend the kingdom of faith.  Sometimes he liked the prospect
of a settled home and repose, study and meditation; but, at the thought of gaining souls to
Christ, all these considerations melted before him, and he believed that he was marked out
for the life of a pilgrim and hermit by his carelessness about hardships.

He had not, however, taken leave of his flock when he set forth on another expedition to the
obdurate Indians of the Susquehanna, in the September of 1746.  It was without result; he could
obtain no attention, and the hardships of the journey, the night exposure, and the frequent
drenchings completed the wreck of his health.  He came back with night perspirations, bleeding
from the lungs, and suffering greatly, feverish and coughing, and often in pain; yet, whenever
he could mount his horse, riding the fifteen miles to attend to the Indians at Cranberry, or
sitting in a chair before his hut, when they assembled round him.

On Sunday he persisted in preaching, till generally at the end of half an hour he fainted,
and was carried to his bed; and at the administration of the Lord's Supper he was carried to
the place where he had forty Indian communicants, and likewise some Whites, who had learnt
to reverence him, and who supported him back to his bed.  He was quite happy now, for he felt
he had done all he could to the utmost of his strength; but, soon becoming totally unable to
speak at all, he felt that he must do what he called "consuming some time in diversions," and
try to spend the winter in a civilized place.

After riding his first short stage, however, his illness increased so much, that he was quite
incapable of proceeding or returning, and remained in a friend's house at Elizabethtown, suffering
from cough, asthma, and fever the whole winter.  In March 1747 he had rallied enough to ride
to Cranberry, where he went from hut to hut, giving advice to and praying with each family,
and parting with them with great tenderness. Tears were shed everywhere; for, though he still
hoped to return, all felt that they should see his face no more!  But, to his great comfort
and joy, his poor people were not to be abandoned to themselves and their tempters.  His younger
brother--John--relieved his mind by offering to assume the care of them, and under his pastorship
he could thankfully leave them.

In April he set out again on his journey, at the rate of about ten miles a day, riding all
the way, and on the 28th of May arrived at Northampton, where Jonathan Edwards, afterwards
President of the College of New Jersey, was then minister.  They were like-minded men, both
disciples of Whitfield, and the self-devoted piety of the young missionary was already so well
known to Mr. Edwards by report, that it was most gladly that he received him into his house
and family.  There the impression Brainerd made was of a singularly social, entertaining person,
meek and unpretending, but manly and independent.  Probably rest and brightness had come when
the terrible struggle of his early years had ceased, and morbid despondency had given way to
Christian hope, for he became at once a bright and pleasant member of any society where he
formed a part, and to the Edwards family he was like a son or brother.  When he was able, Mr.
Edwards wished him to lead the family devotions, and was always greatly impressed by the manner
and matter of his prayers, but one petition never failed, i.e. "that we might not outlive our
usefulness." Even in saying grace there was always something about him that struck the attention.

His purpose in coming to Northampton had been to consult Dr. Mather, whose verdict was that
he was far gone in decline, and who gave him no advice but to ride as much as possible.  So
little difference did this sentence make to him that he never noted it in his diary, though
he spoke of it cheerily in the Edwards family--a large household of young people--where he
was so much beloved, that when he decided to go to Boston, Jerusha, the second daughter, entreated
to be allowed to accompany him, to nurse him as his sister would have done.

The pure, severe simplicity of those early American manners was such, that no one seems to
have been surprised at a girl of eighteen becoming the attendant of a man of twenty-nine. 
Jerusha had the full consent and approbation of her parents, and she was a great comfort and
delight to him.  He told her father that she was more spiritual, self denying, and earnest
to do good, than any young person he had ever known; and on doubt their communings were far
above earth, hovering, as he was well known to be, upon the very borders of the grave.

They took four days to reach Boston, and there he was received with the greatest respect by
all the ministers; but, a week after his arrival, so severe an attack of his illness came on
that he became delirious, and was thought to be at the point of death.  Again, however, he
came back enough to life to sit up in bed and write ardent letters of counsel to the brother
who had succeeded him among his Indians, and likewise to give his friends the assurance of
his perfect peace and joy.  He said that he had carefully examined himself, and though he had
found much pride, selfishness, and corruption, he was still certain that he had felt it his
greatest happiness to glorify and praise God; and this certainty, together with his faith in
the Redeemer, had calmed all the anguish he had suffered for years.

Whenever he was able to converse he had numerous visitors, especially from the deputies of
the Society in London which had assisted Eliot.  A legacy for the support of two missionaries
had newly been received, and his counsel on the mode of employing it was asked.  He was able
to strive to imbue others with the same zeal as himself, and to do much on behalf of his own
mission, although he often lay so utterly exhausted that he said of himself that he could not
understand how life could be retained. One of his brothers, a student at Yale, came to see
him, and to tell him of the death of his favourite sister, of whose illness he had not even
heard, but it was no shock to him, for he felt far more sure of meeting her again than if she
had been left on earth.

The summer weather, to the surprise of all, brought back a slight revival of strength, and
some of his friends began to hope he might yet recover, but he knew his own state too well,
and told them he was as assuredly a dead man as if he had been shot through the heart; still
he was resolved to profit by this partial restoration to return to Northampton, chiefly because
the rumour had reached him that the Bostonians had intended to give him such a funeral as should
testify their great esteem; and being disappointed in this, they intended to assemble and escort
him publicly, while still alive, out of their city, but the bare idea naturally made him so
unhappy that they were forced to give it up.

Five days were spent in the journey, and again the Edwardses reverentially opened their doors
to a guest so near heaven.  For some time he rode out two or three miles daily, and sat with
the family, writing or conversing cheerfully when not engaged in prayer.  His brother John
came from Crossweeksung and cheered him with a good account of his Indians; and hearing of
the great need of another school, he wrote to the friends who had shown themselves so warmly
interested in him at Boston, and was gratified by their reply, with a subscription of 200l.
for the purpose, and of 75l. for the mission to the Six Nations.  His answers were written
with his own hand; but he had become so much weaker that he felt this his last task.  He had
been one who, in his short life, had sown in tears to reap in joy.

He was sinking fast as the autumn cold came on, often talking tenderly to the little ones of
the house, but suffering terribly at times, and sighing, "Why is His chariot so long coming?"
then blaming himself for over-haste to be released.

He had a smile for Jerusha as she came into his room on Sunday morning. "Are you willing to
part with me?  I am willing to part with you, though if I thought I could not see you and be
happy with you in another world, I could not bear to part.  I am willing to leave all my friends.
I am willing to leave my brother, though I love him better than any creature living.  I have
committed him and all my friends to God, and can leave them with God!"

Presently, looking at the Bible in her hands, he said, "Oh that dear Book! the mysteries in
it and in God's providence will soon be unfolded."

He lingered in great agony at times till the 9th of October, 1747, when came a cessation of
pain, and during this lull he breathed his last, then wanting six months of his thirtieth birthday.
He had told Jerusha that they should soon meet above, and, in effect, she only lived until
the next February.  She told her father on her death-bed, that for years past she had not seen
the time when she had any wish to live a moment longer, save for the sake of doing good and
filling up the measure of her duty.

David Brainerd's career ended at an age when John Eliot's had not begun. It was a very wonderful
struggle between the frail suffering body and the devoted, resolute spirit, both weighed down
by the natural morbid temper, further depressed by the peculiar tenets of the form of doctrine
in which he had been bred.  The prudent, well-weighed measures of the ripe scholar, studious
theologian, and conscientious politician, formed by forty-two years' experience of an old and
a new country, could not be looked for in the sickly, self-educated, enthusiastic youth who
had been debarred from the due amount of study, and started with little system but that of
"proclaiming the Gospel"--even though ignorant of the language of those to whom he preached.
And yet that heart-whole piety and patience was blessed with a full measure of present success,
and David Brainerd's story, though that of a short life, over-clouded by mental distress, hardship,
and sickness, fills us with the joyful sense that there is One that giveth the victory.

CHAPTER III.  CHRISTIAN FRIEDRICH SCHWARTZ, THE COUNCILLOR OF TANJORE.

We must turn from America to the warmer regions of the East, from the patriarchal savage to
complicated forms of society, and from the Red-skin to the Hindoo--a man of far nearer affinity
to ourselves, being, like us, of the great Indo-European race, speaking a language like our
own, an altered, corrupted, and intermingled dialect of the same original tongue, and his ancestors
originally professing a religion in which the same primary ideas may be traced as those which
were held by our ancient northern forefathers, and which are familiar to us in the graceful
dress imposed on them by the Greeks.  The sacred writings of the Hindoos form the earliest
storehouse of the words of our common language, and the thoughts therein found, though recorded
after the branches had parted from the common stock, are nearer the universal germ than those
to be found anywhere else, and more nearly represent the primary notion of religion held by
the race of Japheth, after that of Shem, to which God revealed Himself more distinctly, had
parted from it.  These oldest writings are quaint, pure, and simple, but on them the fancies
of a race enervated by climate engrafted much that was hideous, monstrous, and loathsome, leading
to gross idolatry, and much vice perpetrated in the name of religion.  Mythology always degenerates
with the popular character, and then, so far as the character is formed by the religious faith,
the mythology helps to debase it further, until the undying moral sense of conscience awakens
again in some man, or band of men, and a new morality arises; sometimes grafted upon philosophic
reasoning, sometimes upon a newly-invented or freshly introduced religion.

Thus, when Hindooism had become corrupt, the deeply meditative system of Buddha was introduced
into many parts of India, and certainly brought a much higher theory and purer code than that
founded on the garbled nature- worship of ancient India; but both religions co-existed, and,
indeed, Buddhism was in one aspect an offshoot of the Hindoo faith.

Christianity--planted, as is believed, by St. Thomas, on the Malabar coast--never became wholly
extinct, although tinged with Nestorianism, but it was never adopted by the natives at large,
and the learning and philosophy of the Brahmins would have required the utmost powers of the
most learned fathers of the Church to cope with them, before they could have been convinced.

The rigid distinctions of caste have made it more difficult for the Church which "preaches
the Gospel to the poor," to be accepted in India than anywhere else.  Accounting himself sprung
from the head of Brahma, the Brahmin deems himself, and is deemed by others, as lifted to an
elevation which has no connection either with moral goodness, with wealth, or with power; and
which is as much the due of the most poverty- stricken and wicked member of the caste as of
the most magnificent priest.  The Sudras, the governing and warlike class, are next in order,
having sprung from the god's breast, and beneath these come infinite grades of caste, their
subdivisions each including every man of each trade or calling which he pursues hereditarily
and cannot desert or change, save under the horrible penalty of losing caste, and becoming
forsaken and despised of every creature, even the nearest kindred.  The mere eating from a
vessel used to contain food for a person of a different caste is enough to produce contamination;
the separation is complete, and the whole constitution of body and mind have become so inured
to the distinction, that the cost of becoming a convert is infinitely severer in India than
ever it could have been even in Greece or Rome, where, though the Christian might be persecuted
even to the death, he was not thrust out of the pale of humanity like a Hindoo convert who
transgresses caste.

The Christians of Malabar are a people living to themselves, and the great Bengalee nations
never appear to have had the Gospel carried to them.  The Mahometan conquest filled India with
professors of the faith of the Koran; but these were a dominant race, proud and separate from
the mass of people, whom they did not win to their faith, and thus the Hindoo idolatry had
prevailed untouched for almost the whole duration of the world, when the wealth of India in
the early days of naval enterprise first began to tempt small mercantile companies of Europeans
to form factories on the coast merely for purposes of traffic, without at first any idea that
these would lead to possession or conquest, and, in general, without any sense of the responsibility
of coming as Christians into a heathen world.

The Portuguese did indeed strive earnestly to Christianize their territory at Goa; and they
promoted by all means in their power the labours of Francisco Xavier and his Jesuit companions,
so effectually that the fruits of their teaching have remained to the present day.

Neither were the Dutch, who then held Ceylon, entirely careless of the duty of instructing
their subjects; and the Danes, who had obtained the town of Tranquebar on the Coromandel coast,
in 1746, sent out a mission which was vigorously conducted, and met with good success.  Hitherto,
however, the English at Madras and Calcutta had been almost wholly indifferent, and it must
be remembered that theirs was not a Government undertaking.  The East India Company was still
only a struggling corporation of merchants and traders, who only wanted to secure the warehouses
and dwellings of those who conducted their traffic, and had as yet no thought of anything but
the security of their trade; often, indeed, considering themselves pledged to no interference
with the religion of the people around, and too often forgetting their own. However, the Danish
mission received grants of money and books from the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge;
and the first Indian missionary of any note, a German by birth, was equally connected with
both England and Denmark.

Sonnenburg in Brandenburg, still an electorate at the time, was the native home of Christian
Friedrich Schwartz, of whose parents it is only known that they appear to have been in easy
circumstances, and that his mother, who died before he could remember, told her husband and
her pastor on her death-bed, that she had dedicated her infant to the service of God, imploring
them to cherish and forward any inclination towards the ministerial office that might be visible
in him.  It was, of course, the Lutheran form in which the child of this pious woman was bred
up, and in 1734 he was sent to the grammar school of Sonnenburg, where his piety was first
excited by a religious master, then cooled by an indifferent one; and he was then taken by
his father, walking on foot the whole way, to pursue his studies at Custrin.  There he became
beset by the temptations that surrounded young students, and after giving way to them for a
time, was saved from further evil by the influence of the daughter of one of the Syndics. 
It does not appear to have been a matter of sentiment, but of honest friendship and good counsel,
aiding the young man to follow his better instead of his worse impulses; and thus giving a
labourer to the vineyard.

Before residing at Custrin, this lady had lived for a time at Halle, and what she told the
young Schwartz of the professors at that university, inspired him with the desire of completing
his course under them, especially August Hermann Francke, who had established an admirable
orphan house, with an excellent grammar school.

In his twentieth year, Schwartz entered at Halle, but lodged at the orphan house, where he
became teacher to the Latin classes, and was put in charge of the evening devotions of the
household.  At Halle, he met a retired Danish missionary, named Schultz, who had come thither
to superintend the printing of a version of the Bible in Tamul, the language of Ceylon and
of the Coromandel coast; and this it was that first turned his mind to the thought of offering
himself as a worker in the great field of India.

He was the eldest of the family, and his friends all declared that it was impossible that his
father should consent to part with him; but when he went home, and earnestly stated his desire,
the elder Schwartz, instead of at once refusing as all expected, desired to take three days
to consider; and when they were passed, he came gravely down from his chamber, called his son
Christian, gave him his blessing, and told him to depart in God's name, charging him to forget
his own country and his father's house, and to win many souls to Christ.

And certainly that good old German's blessing went forth with his son. Christian Schwartz next
resigned his share in the family property to his brothers and sisters; and after completing
his studies at Halle, went to Copenhagen, since it was by the Danish government that he was
to be authorized.  Two other young Germans, named Poltzenheigen and Hutteman, went with him.
The Danes, though Lutherans in profession, have an Episcopal hierarchy, and the three students
were ordained by the Danish Bishop Horreboa on the 6th of September, 1749; Christian Schwartz
being then within a month of twenty-three.

Their first stage was to England, where they had to learn the language, and were entertained
at the cost of the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge.  Mr. Ziegenhagen, German chaplain
to George II., was very kind to his countrymen, helped them in all their difficulties, and
gave them directions for which they were very grateful.  He made them preach in the Chapel
Royal on Christmas Day.  No doubt the language was German, which must have been acceptable
to the Hanoverian ears.

Their English studies were not greatly prolonged, for they arrived on the 8th of December,
1749, and sailed on the 29th of January, 1750, in an East India Company's ship, where they
were allowed a free passage, and were treated with respect and friendliness.  The voyage lasted
long enough to improve them in English, for they did not cast anchor at Tranquebar till the
8th of October.

At this considerable Danish factory, they were received into the mission- house of the Danes,
and there remained while studying the language, in which Schwartz made so much progress that
he preached his first Tamul sermon only four months after his arrival, and by the spring was
able to catechize the children who attended the school.  This station at Tranquebar formed
the home of seven or eight missionaries, who lived together, attended to the services and schools,
prepared candidates for baptism, and made excursions by ones and twos into the villages that
stood thickly on the coast, where they talked and argued with the natives, hoping to incite
them to inquire further.  The two greatest obstacles they met with here were the evil example
of Europeans and the difficulty of maintenance for a convert.  One poor dancing girl said,
on hearing that no unholy person could enter into the kingdom of heaven, "Ah! sir, then no
European will;" but, on the whole, they must have met with good success, for in 1752 there
were three large classes of catechumens prepared and baptized at the station.  In the district
around there were several villages, where congregations of Christians existed, and, of all
those south of the river Caveri, Schwartz was after two more years made the superintendent.

The simple habits of these German and Danish clergy eminently fitted them for such journeys;
they set out in pairs on foot, after a farewell of united prayer from their brethren, carrying
with them their Hebrew Bibles, and attended by a few Christian servants and coolies; they proceeded
from village to village, sometimes sleeping in the house of a Hindoo merchant, sometimes at
that of one the brother ministers they had come to see, and at every halt conversing and arguing
with Hindoo or Mahometan, or sometimes with the remnants of the Christians converted by the
Portuguese, who had been so long neglected that they had little knowledge of any faith.

The character of Christian Schwartz was one to influence all around him. He seems to have had
all the quiet German patience and endurance of hardship, without much excitability, and with
a steadiness of judgment and intense honesty and integrity, that disposed every one to lean
on him and rely on him for their temporal as well as their spiritual matters--great charity
and warmth of heart, and a shrewdness of perception that made him excellent in argument.  He
had also that true missionary gift, a great facility of languages, both in grammar and pronunciation,
and his utter absence of all regard for his own comfort or selfish dignity, yet his due respect
to times and places made him able to penetrate everywhere, from the hut to the palace.

The Carnatic war was at this time an impediment, by keeping the minds of all the natives in
a state of excitement and anxiety, from dread of Mahratta incursions; but Schwartz never intermitted
his rounds, and was well supported by the Danish Governor, a good man, who often showed himself
his friend.  Some of the missionaries were actually made prisoners when the French took Cuddalore,
but Count Lally Tollendal was very kind to them, and sent them with all their property and
converts safely away to Tranquebar.

The Dutch missionaries in Ceylon had been in correspondence with those of Tranquebar, and had
obtained from them copies of their Tamul Bible, and in 1760 Schwartz was sent on a visit to
them.  He was very well received by both clergy and laity; and though he was laid up by a severe
illness at Colombo, yet he was exceedingly well contented with his journey and his conferences
with his brethren.

Christian Schwartz had been more than sixteen years in India, and was forty years of age, before
his really distinctive and independent work began, after his long training in the central station
at Tranquebar.

The neighbouring district of Tanjore had at different times been visited, and the ministers
of the Rajah had shown themselves willing to bestow some reflection on what they heard from
the missionaries.  Visits to this place and to Trichinopoly became frequent with him, and in
1766 the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge having decided on planting a mission station
in the latter place, he was appointed to take the charge of it.

About this time he seems to have accommodated his name to English pronunciation, and to have
always written it Swartz.  It was now that he became acquainted with William Chambers, Esq.,
brother to the Chief Justice of Bengal,--not a Company's servant, but a merchant, and an excellent
man, who took great interest in missionary labours, and himself translated a great part of
St. Matthew's Gospel into Persian, the court language of India.  From a letter of this gentleman,
we obtain the only description we possess of Swartz's appearance and manners.  He says that,
from the descriptions he had heard, he had expected to see a very austere and strict person,
but "the first sight of him made a complete revolution on this point.  His garb, indeed, which
was pretty well worn, seemed foreign and old-fashioned, but in every other respect his appearance
was the reverse of all that could be called forbidding or morose.  Figure to yourself a stout
well-made man, somewhat above the middle size, erect in his carriage and address, with a complexion
rather dark though healthy, black curled hair, and a manly engaging countenance, expressive
of unaffected candour, ingenuousness, and benevolence, and you will have an idea of what Mr.
Swartz appeared to be at first sight."  Mr. Chambers adds that Swartz's whole allowance at
Trichinopoly was ten pagodas a year, that is, about 48l. (as Mr. Chambers estimates it).  The
commanding officer of the English garrison was ordered to supply him with quarters, and gave
him a room in an old native building, where "there was just room for his bed and himself, and
in which few men could stand upright."  With this lodging he was content.  His food was rice
and vegetables dressed native fashion, and his clothes were made of black dimity.  The little
brass lamp which he had used for his studies at the University went with him to India, and
served him all his life, often late at night, for he never preached even to the natives without
much study.

He found the English without church or chaplain, and had very little knowledge of their language,
having lived almost entirely among Germans, Danes, and natives; but he quickly picked it up
among the soldiers, to whom his kindly simple manners commended him; and, as soon as he could
speak it to any degree, he began to read the Church Service every Sunday to the garrison, with
a printed sermon from an English divine, until he had obtained sufficient fluency to preach
extempore.  At first, the place of meeting was a large room in an old building, but he afterwards
persuaded them to build themselves a church capable of holding from 1,500 to 2,000.  His facility
in learning languages must have been great, for the English of his letters is excellent, unless
his biographer, Dean Pearson, has altered it.  It is not at all like that of a German.  His
influence with the soldiers was considered as something wonderful, in those times of neglect
and immorality, and the commandant and his wife--Colonel and Mrs. Wood--were his warmest friends;
and when the Government at Madras heard of his voluntary services as chaplain, they granted
him, unsolicited, a salary of 100l. a year, of which he devoted half to the service of his
congregation.  He was thus able to build a mission-house, and an English and a Tamul school,
labour and materials being alike cheap.  But, in spite of all his care of the English soldiery,
the natives were his chief thought; and he was continually among them, reading and arguing
home with the most thorough knowledge and experience of their difficulties.  He made expeditions
from Trichinopoly to Tanjore, then under the government of a Rajah, under the protection of
the British Government.  The principal worship of the place was directed to an enormous black
bull, said to be hewn out of a single block of granite, and so large that the temple had been
built round it.

The Brahmins conversed with him a good deal, and often were all but converted.  One plainly
said that love of money and pleasure alone kept them from accepting Christianity.  In 1769
he had a personal interview with the Rajah Tuljajee, a man of the dignity, grace, and courtesy
usual in Hindoo princes, but very indolent, not even rising in the morning if he was told that
it was not an auspicious day, though he was more cultivated than most men of his rank and period.

Swartz found him seated on a couch suspended from pillars, and was placed opposite to him,
on a seat.  The interpreter addressed him in Persian, and Swartz replied in the same; but,
perceiving that the man omitted part of his speech, he asked leave to speak Tamul.

The Rajah asked questions, which led to an exposition of the Christian doctrine, and he listened
with interest; and he likewise was struck when Swartz uttered a thanksgiving before partaking
of the sweets that were carried round on trays.  He showed himself so much disappointed when
he learnt that the Padre had left Tanjore, that it was resolved that Swartz should return thither
again; and for some days there were out-of-door preachings on the glacis of the fort, where,
in spite of clouds of dust brought by the land wind, the people collected in crowds to hear
him, and expressed ardent wishes that the Rajah would become a Christian, when they all could
do the same.  The Prince himself was much drawn towards the missionary; but it was the old
story,--he was surrounded with ministers and courtiers who feared any change, above all any
plain-speaking truth, and therefore did their best to keep the new light at a distance.  However,
Tuljajee called Swartz "his padre," and gave him free entrance to his fort at Tanjore, where
his arguments made a wide impression, and still more his example.  "Padre," said a young Nabob,
"we always regarded you Europeans as ungodly men, who knew not the use of prayers, till you
came among us."

He continued to go backwards and forwards between Trichinopoly and Tanjore, in both which places
he began to gather catechumens round him. Unfortunately his Protestant principles brought him
into collision with the Roman Catholics at the former place.  A young Hindoo, of good birth,
seems to have had one of those remarkable natures that cannot rest without truth.  He had for
seven years wandered to all the most famous pagodas and most sacred rivers, seeking rest for
his soul, but in vain. Some Roman Catholics had given him a little brass crucifix, which he
used to set up before him as he prayed; but he had learnt little more of them, and he was mournfully
gazing at "the pagodas of Sirengam" (in his own words), and thinking, "What is all this? what
can it avail?" when some of Swartz's catechists began to speak.  "Will this be better than
what I have found?" he said to himself.  He listened, was asked to remain a fortnight at the
station, and soon had given his whole soul to the faith. He was baptized by the name of Nyana
Pracasam, or Spiritual Light, and became a catechist.  His father and mother were likewise
led to Christianity by him, but the Roman Catholics, having begun his conversion, considered
that they had a right to him, and on one occasion, when he was found reading to a sick relative,
probably a member of their Church, he was severely beaten, and was rescued by the heathen neighbours
when nearly killed.

Swartz seems to have regarded the Roman Catholics as in almost as much need of reconversion
as the Hindoos and Mahometans; and as in those days their Church shared in that universal religious
torpor that had crept over the world, it is most likely that he found them in a very debased
condition.

With the Mahometans he had some success, though he found, like all other missionaries, that
their faith, being rather a heresy than a paganism, had truth enough in it to be much harder
to deal with than the Hindoo polytheism.  Besides, they accepted the Persian proverb, "Every
time a man argues, he loses a drop of blood from his liver."  He was impeded also by the want
of a Persian translation of the entire Bible, having no more than the Gospels to give the inquirers,
and these badly translated; and with Mahometans the want of the real history of the Patriarchs
was very serious.  Some, however, were convinced and baptized, though by far the greater number
of his converts were Hindoos.

In 1776, a coadjutor, either German or Danish-trained, named Christian Pohle, joined him at
Trichinopoly, and thus he became free to reside more constantly at Tanjore, where the Rajah
always protected him, though continually fluctuating in feeling towards Christianity, according
to the influences of his ministers and the Brahmins who surrounded him, and the too frequent
offences given by the godless officers of the European garrison which was stationed in the fort.

Mr. Swartz was anxiously soliciting for means to build a church for the use of this garrison,
when he was summoned to Madras, to the governor, Sir Thomas Rumbold, who promised him a grant
for his church; but, at the same time, informed him that he was to be sent on a mission to
visit the formidable Hyder Ali in Mysore, in order to judge how far his intentions towards
the English were pacific.  He was selected for the purpose on account of his perfect knowledge
of Hindostanee, the simplicity of his manner of travelling, and his perfect immunity from any
of the ordinary influences of interest or ambition; and he undertook it, as he tells the Society
for Promoting Christian Knowledge, because he regarded it as conducing to peace, as opening
fresh doors to the Gospel, and as a token of gratitude to the Honourable Company for kindness
he had received; "but at the same time," he says, "I resolved to keep my hands undefiled from
any presents, by which determination the Lord enabled me to abide, so that I have not accepted
a single farthing save my travelling expenses."

On the 1st of July, 1779, he set out from Trichinopoly on this journey, taking one of his catechists,
named Sattianadem, with him.  He travelled in a palanquin, and took six days to reach Caroor,
on the Mysore frontier, forty miles off, where he stayed a month with a young Ceylonese Dutchman
in Hyder Ali's service, while sending to ask the Nabob's permission to proceed.  All this time
he and his catechist preached and gave instruction in the streets.  It is curious to find him,
on his journey, contrasting the excellent state of Hyder Ali's roads and bridges with the careless
disorganization of the public works under the Company. An epidemic fever was raging in Seringapatam,
and Swartz pitched his tent outside, where he could conveniently visit the many-pillared palace
of the sovereign.  He was much struck with the close personal supervision that Hyder Ali kept
up over his officers, and with the terrible severity of the punishments.  Two hundred men were
kept armed with whips, and not a day passed without many being scourged, no rank being exempt,
the Nabob's two sons and sons-in-law being liable to be whipped like the meanest groom.  Swartz
was the unwilling spectator of the punishment of the collector of a district who was flogged
with whips armed with nails.

A few hundreds of Europeans, English, German, and French, were in Hyder's pay, encamped about
the town, and a German captain lent his tent for public worship.  No molestation was offered
to any instructions that Swartz attempted to give, and he was very courteously entreated by
the Prince himself.  The conferences with him were generally held in a hall of marble columns,
open to a garden adorned with fruit trees, rows of cypresses, and fountains.  Hyder Ali sat
on rich carpets, covering the floor, and the Padre was placed next to him.  He spoke in general
terms of his desire to keep the peace, though the British had violated their engagements, referring
to an attempt that had newly been made to march troops through his territory without his permission.
To Swartz he was gracious in speech, but the letter he entrusted to him was full of threatening
for this and other acts which he considered aggressive; and the general impression brought
back by the missionary was that a war was to be expected.

Hyder Ali had presented him with a bag of three hundred rupees for travelling expenses, which
it would have been a great affront to return. He, however, made it over to the Government at
Madras, and when they would not take it, asked leave to use it as the foundation for a collection
for an English orphan school at Tanjore.  This was granted, and proved a success.  Finding
that there was an intention of voting a present to him, he begged instead that a salary might
be given to Mr. Pohle at Trichinopoly; and, in consequence, both were enabled to maintain catechists
and schoolmasters; for of making a home for themselves, these devoted men never thought.  Moreover,
Swartz obtained bricks and lime for the building of his English church within the fort; and
he bought and enlarged a house half a mile from it, for his Malabar Christians to worship in.
His own observations of Hyder Ali's warlike intentions led also to his purchasing 12,000 bags
of rice as a provision against the scarcity that too surely attends upon Indian warfare.

In the summer of 1780, these apprehensions were realized.  Hyder crossed the Ghauts, and passed
down into the Carnatic with 100,000 men, directed by a staff of French officers, and plundered
up to the very gates of Madras.  Everything was in the greatest confusion; the English troops
were dispersed in garrisons, and could not easily be brought together; and one small detachment
under Colonel Baillie, who were made prisoners at Conjiveram, suffered a frightful captivity.
Sir Eyre Coote did, indeed, keep the enemy in check, and defeat him in several battles, but
had not at first sufficient numbers or stores effectually to drive him back; and the whole
province of Tanjore was horribly wasted.  The irrigation of the district had been broken up
by the invaders; there was for three years neither seed-time nor harvest, and the miserable
peasants crawled into the towns to perish there, often with their sons carried off to form
a regiment of youths whom Hyder Ali was bringing up as a sort of Janissaries.

The unhappy creatures lay dying along the sides of the road, and among them moved from one
to another that homely figure in the black dimity dress, and his catechists with him, feeding
those who could still swallow, and speaking words of comfort to those who could hear.  Some
of the English sent a monthly subscription, which enabled Swartz to keep up the supply, so
that a hundred and twenty a day were fed; but often in the morning he found the dead lying
in heaps, and in one of his letters he mentions that his catechists are alive, as though he
regarded it as a wonder and a mercy.  Indeed he seems to have been a very Joseph to the Rajah,
and even to the English garrison.  There was absolutely no magazine for provisions, either
for the Sepoys or the Rajah's own troops, and twice he was implored, both by Tuljajee and the
Company, to purchase supplies and get them brought in, since they were unable to do so, "for
a want of good understanding with the natives who still possessed either rice or oxen to transport
it."  He was enabled to procure the supply, and then there was no place to store it in but
his own new English church, so that he was obliged to hold three services on a Sunday in the
other: from eight till ten in English, from ten till twelve in Tamul, and from four till five
in Portuguese!  About a hundred converts were gained during the famine; but he was forced to
teach them very slowly, their mental faculties were so weakened by their state of exhaustion.
The whole of the towns of Tanjore and Trichinopoly were, he says, filled with living skeletons,
there was hardly an able or vigorous man to be found, and in this distress it was necessary
to relax the ordinarily wise rule of never giving any assistance to a person under preparation
for baptism, since to withhold succour would have been barbarous cruelty.

When the whole country was overrun by the troops of Mysore, the respect paid to the good Padre
was such that he travelled from end to end of it without hindrance, even through the midst
of the enemy's camp, and on the only occasion when he was detained, the sentinel politely put
it that "he was waiting for orders to let him proceed."  It was on one of these journeys that
a little lad, named Christian David, the son of one of the converts, was attending him one
evening, when, halting at a native village, the supper was brought, of rice and curry.  The
Padre made so long a grace out of the fulness of his heart, that at last the boy broke in with
a murmur that the curry would be cold!  He never forgot the reproof: "What! shall our gracious
God watch over us through the heat and burden of the day, and shall we devour the food which
He provides for us at night, with hands which we have never raised in prayer, and lips which
have never praised Him?"  The missionaries were always safe throughout the war, and, when Cuddalore
capitulated to the French and Mysoreans, Mr. Gericke, who was then at the head of the station,
concealed some English officers in his house, and likewise, by his representations to the French
general, saved the town from being delivered up to be plundered by Hyder's native troops.

In the end of 1782, Hyder Ali died; his son, Tippoo Sahib, assuming the title of Sultan, continued
the war, with the same fierceness, but without the assistance of the French, who were withdrawn,
in consequence of the peace that had been concluded at home.

This, together with the numerous victories that had been obtained by the English forces, led
to hopes that Tippoo would consent to terms of peace, and two Commissioners were appointed,
whom Swartz was requested to join as interpreter.  He had no taste for political missions,
but he thought it a duty to do all in his power for peace, and set off for the purpose, but
the Mysoreans complained that the English promises had not been kept, and he was turned back
again by the enemy's troops.  Colonel Fullarton, who was in command of the army about to invade
Mysore, writes, "The knowledge and the integrity of this irreproachable missionary have retrieved
the character of Europeans from imputations of general depravity!"  He went back to Tanjore,
and there, for the first time, experienced some failure in health.  He was requested again
to join the Commissioners, but would not again attempt it, partly from the state of his health,
and partly because Tippoo was far more averse to Christianity than Hyder had been.  All the
12,000 Tanjoreen captive boys--originally Hindoos--were bred up Mahometans, and he tolerated
nothing else but Hindooism, persecuting the Roman Catholics in his dominions till no one dared
make an open profession.

A treaty was, however, concluded in 1784, and there was for a time a little rest, greatly needed
by Swartz, who had been suffering from much weakness and exhaustion; but a journey into Tinnevelly,
with his friend Mr. Sullivan, seems to have restored him.

There were already some dawnings of Christianity in this district.  As long before as 1771,
one of the Trichinopoly converts, named Schavrimutta, who was living at Palamcotta, began to
instruct his neighbours from the Bible, and a young Hindoo accountant, becoming interested,
went to an English sergeant and his wife, who had likewise been under Swartz's influence, and
asked for further teaching.  The sergeant taught him the Catechism and then baptized him, rather
to the displeasure of Swartz, who always was strongly averse to hasty baptisms. Afterwards,
a Brahmin's widow begged for baptism.  She, it appeared, was living with an English officer,
and Swartz was obliged to refuse her while this state of things continued, but he found that
the Englishman had promised to marry her, and had begun to teach her his language and his faith.
He died without performing his promise, but Christianity had become so dear to her, that she
again entreated for baptism, and was then admitted into the Church by the name of Clarinda.
She afterwards was the chief means of building a church at Palamcotta, to which Sattianadem
became the catechist; and thus was first sown a seed which has never ceased growing, for this
district of Tinnevelly has always been the stronghold of Christianity in India.

Meantime Swartz's poor friend, the Rajah Tuljajee at Tanjore, was in a deplorable state.  He
had suffered great losses during Hyder Ali's invasion of his country, and, moreover, was afflicted
with an incurable disease, and had lately lost, by death, his only son, daughter, and grandson:
He shut himself up in the depths of his palace, and became harsh and moody, heaping all the
treasure together that he could collect, and employing a dean or minister, named Baba, whose
exactions on the famished population were so intolerable that the people fled the country,
and settled in the neighbouring districts, so that no less than 65,000 were said to have deserted
the province.

Sir Archibald Campbell, Governor of Madras, remonstrated, but the Rajah was affronted, and
would not dismiss his minister, and as the peasants refused to sow their land without some
security that the crops should not be reaped by Baba's emissaries before their very eyes, the
Madras authorities decided on taking the management of Tanjoreen affairs into their hands and
appointing a committee to watch over the government.  Sir Archibald wished to place Mr. Swartz
on this committee as the person best able to deal both with Rajah and people, and he accepted
a seat, only stipulating that he was not to share in any violent or coercive measures.

When the "good Padre" assured the fugitives in the Rajah's name and his own that oppression
was at an end, 7,000 at once returned; and when he reminded them that the season for planting
their corps was nearly past, they replied that in return for his kindness they intended to
work night and day.

In 1787, the childless Rajah decided on--after the fashion of many Hindoo princes--adopting
an heir, who might perform the last duties which were incumbent on a son.  His choice fell
upon the son of a near kinsman, a child ten years of age, whom he named Serfojee.  A day or
two after he sent for Mr. Swartz, and said, "This is not my son, but yours.  Into your hand
I deliver him."  "May the child become a child of God," was the answer of Swartz.  The Rajah
was too ill to continue the interview, but he sent for Swartz the next day, and said, "I appoint
you guardian to this child; I put his hands into yours."

Swartz, however, did not think it right to undertake the state guardianship of the lad, and
the administration of the province.  Indeed, he knew that to do so would be absolutely to put
the child's life in danger, from the cabals and jealousies which would be excited, and he induced
Tuljajee to confide the charge to his brother, Rama Swamey, afterwards called Ameer Singh.

This was done, and the Rajah soon after died, in the year 1787, leaving the boy and Ameer Singh
under the protection of the Company.  He had always listened to Swartz willingly, and treated
him affectionately, and the result of the influence of the missionary extended so far that
no Suttee took place at his funeral, but he had never actually embraced Christianity, though
protecting it to the utmost of his power.

The brother, Ameer Singh, was not contented merely to act as regent, but complained that injustice
was done to him, and that Tuljajee was too much enfeebled in mind to judge of his own measures
when he adopted the boy Serfojee.  Sir Archibald Campbell, acting for the Company, came to
Tanjore, and, after an examination into the circumstances, decided in favour of Ameer Singh,
and confirmed him in the Rajahship, binding him over to be the faithful protector of poor little
Serfojee, who, putting the adoption apart, was still his near relation.

Ameer was not a better manager of his province than his brother had been, and he was far from
kind to Serfojee, whom Swartz had not been allowed to see for months, when the widows of the
late Rajah made complaints that the boy was closely shut up and cruelly treated.  On this Swartz
applied to Government, and obtained an order to go with another gentleman to inquire into his
condition.  The Rajah was much offended; but as he reigned only by the protection of the English,
he could not refuse, and the Padre was conducted to a large but dark room, where he found the
poor child sitting by lamp-light.  This had been his condition for almost two years, ever since
his adopted father's death, and on seeing the Padre, he asked piteously if it were the way
in Europe to prevent children from seeing the sun and moon.  Mr. Swartz comforted him, and
asked him if he had any one to teach him.  The Rajah's minister replied that he had a master,
but was too idle to learn; but Serfojee looked up and said, "I have none to teach me, therefore
I do not know a single letter."  The Rajah was only offended at remonstrance, and at last Government
sent orders that could not be resisted, and a Sepoy guard to take charge of the lad.  Then,
as a great favour, the Rajah entreated that the guard would not enter his palace, but that
for the night before Serfojee could be removed, the Padre would remain with him to satisfy
them that he was safe.  To this Swartz consented, and the guard disappeared, whereupon the
Rajah told him "he might go home."

"What! and be guilty of a breach of faith?" was his resolute answer. "Even my father should
not be permitted to make me such a proposal!"

They were ashamed, and left him to remain that night with Serfojee, whom he probably thus saved
from foul play, since the jealous and vindictive passions of Ameer Singh had been thoroughly
excited.  The captivity must have been very wretched, for he observed that the poor boy walked
lame, and found that the cause was this:--"I have not been able to sleep," said poor Serfojee,
"from the number of insects in my room, but have had to sit clasping my knees about with my
arms.  My sinews are a little contracted, but I hope I shall soon recover."

When taken out, the poor little fellow was delighted once more to see the sun, and to ride
out again.  A Brahmin master selected by Mr. Swartz was given to him, and he very rapidly learnt
both to read his own language and English.  Swartz also interfered on behalf of the late Rajah's
minister, Baba, who had indeed been extortionate and severe, but scarcely deserved such a punishment
as being put into a hole six feet long and four feet broad and high.

For two years Serfojee was unmolested; but, in 1792, the husband of Ameer Singh's only child
died without children, and this misfortune was attributed by the Rajah to witchcraft on the
part of the widows of Tuljajee.  He imagined that they were contriving against his own life,
and included Serfojee in his hatred.  By way of revenge, he caused a pile of chilis and other
noxious plants to be burnt under Serfojee's windows, and thus nearly stifled him and his attendants.
He prevented the Prince's teachers from having access to him, shut up his servants, and denied
permission to merchants to bring their wares to him.  Mr. Swartz was absent at the time, and
Serfojee wrote a letter to him, begging that the English Government would again interfere.
It was found that any remonstrance put the Rajah into such a state of fury that the lives of
the youth and the ladies we're really unsafe while they remained within his reach, and it was
therefore decided that they should be transplanted to Madras.  It was a wonderful step for
Hindoo princesses to take, and was only accomplished by the influence of Mr. Swartz, backed
by a guard of soldiers, under whose escort all safely arrived at Madras, where Serfojee's education
could at length be properly carried on.

The youth was so entirely the child of Swartz and of the Government, that it is disappointing
to find that he did not become a Christian.  No stipulation to the contrary seems to have been
made by Tuljajee; but, probably, the missionary refrained from a sense of honour towards the
late Rajah, and because to bring the boy up in the Church would have destroyed all chance of
his obtaining the provinces, and probably have deprived him of the protection of the Company,
who dreaded the suspicion of proselytizing.  Still it is very disappointing, and requires all
our trust in Swartz's judgment and excellence to be satisfied that he was right in leaving
this child, who had been confided to him, all his life a heathen.  Serfojee learnt the theory
of Christianity, was deeply attached to Mr. Swartz, and lived a life very superior to that
of most Hindoo princes of his time.  His faith in his hereditary paganism was probably only
political, but he never made the desperate, and no doubt perilous, plunge of giving up all
the world to save his own soul.  Was it his fault, or was it any shortcoming in the teaching
that was laid before him, and was that human honour a want of faith?  It puzzles us!  Here
was Swartz, from early youth to hoary hairs unwavering in the work of the Gospel, gathering
in multitudes to the Church, often at great peril to himself, yet holding back from bringing
into the fold the child who had been committed to him, and, as far as we can see, without any
stipulation to the contrary.  Probably he thought it right to leave Serfojee's decision uninfluenced
until his education should be complete, and was disappointed that the force of old custom and
the danger of change were then too strong for him; and thus it was that Serfojee was only one
of the many half-reclaimed Indian princes who have lived out their dreary, useless lives under
English protection, without accepting the one pearl of great price which could alone have made
them gainers.

It is just possible that there may have been too much of a certain sort of acquiescence in
Swartz's mind, missionary as he was.  He did not attack the system of caste, with its multitudinous
separations and distinctions.  Of course he wished it to be abolished, but he accepted converts
without requiring its renunciation, allowed high-caste persons to sit apart in the churches,
and to communicate before Pariahs, and did not interfere with their habits of touching no food
that the very finger of a person of a different caste had defiled.  He no doubt thought these
things would wither away of themselves, but his having permitted them, left a world of difficulty
to his successors.

He lived, however, the life of a saint, nearly that of an ascetic.  His almost unfurnished
house was shared with some younger missionary. Kohloff, who was one of these, related in after
years how plain their diet was.  Some tea in a jug, with boiling water poured over it and dry
bread broken into it, formed the breakfast, which lasted five minutes; dinner, at one, was
of broth or curry; and at eight at night they had some meal or gruel.  If wine were sent them,
it was reserved for the communions or for the sick.  Swartz only began, very late in life,
to take a single glass in the middle of his Sunday services.

Every morning he assembled his native catechists at early prayer, and appointed them their
day's work.  "You go there."  "You do this."  "You call on such and such families."  "You visit
such a village."  About four o'clock they returned and made their report, when their master
took them all with him to the churchyard or some public place, or to the front of the Mission-house,
according to the season of the year, and there sat either expounding the Scriptures to those
who would come and listen, or conversing with inquirers and objectors among the heathen.  His
manner was mild, sometimes humorous, but very authoritative, and he would brook neither idleness
nor disobedience.

Over his Christian flock his authority was as complete as ever that of Samuel could have been
as a judge.  If any of them did wrong, the alternative was--

"Will you go to the Rajah's court, or be punished by me?"

"O Padre, you punish me!" was always the reply.

"Give him twenty strokes," said the Padre, and it was done.

The universal confidence in the Padre, felt alike by Englishmen and Hindoos, was inestimable
in procuring and carrying out regulations for the temporal prosperity of the peasantry at Tanjore,
under the Board which had pretty well taken the authority out of the hands of the inefficient
and violent Ameer Singh.  Districts that, partly from misery, had become full of thieves, were
brought into order, and the thieves themselves often became hopeful converts, and endured a
good deal of persecution from their heathen neighbours.  His good judgment in dealing with
all classes, high and low, English or native, does indeed seem to have been wonderful, and
almost always to have prevailed, probably through his perfect honesty, simplicity, and disinterestedness.

The converts in Tinnevelly became more and more numerous, and Sattianadem had been ordained
to the ministry, Lutheran fashion, by the assembly of the presbytery at Tranquebar, there being
as yet no Bishop in India; and thus many, the very best of his catechists, served for many
years, at Palamcotta, the first Christian minister produced by modern India.  On the whole,
Swartz could look back on the half-century of his mission with great joy and thankfulness;
he counted his spiritual children by hundreds; and the influence he had exerted upon the whole
Government had saved multitudes of peasants from oppression and starvation, and had raised
the whole tone of the administration.  He was once or twice unkindly attacked by Englishmen
who hated or mistrusted the propagation of Christianity.  One gentleman even wrote a letter
in a newspaper calling a missionary a disgrace to any nation, and raking up stories of the
malpractices of heathens who had been preached to without being converted, which were laid
to the charge of the actual Christians; but imputations like these did not meet with faith
from any one whose good opinion was of any real consequence to Swartz.

His strong health and the suitability of his constitution to the climate brought him to a good
old age in full activity.  He had become the patriarch of the community of missionaries, and
had survived all those with whom he had at first laboured; but he was still able to circulate
among the churches he had founded, teaching, praying, preaching and counselling, or laying
any difficulty before the Government, whose attention he had so well earned.  His last care
was establishing the validity of the adoption of Serfojee, who had grown up a thoughtful, gentle,
and upright man, satisfactory on all points except on the one which rendered him eligible to
the throne of Tanjore, his continued heathenism.  The question was referred to the Company
at home, and before the answer could arrive, by the slow communication of those days, when
the long voyage, and that by a sailing vessel, was the only mode of conveyance, the venerable
guardian of the young Rajah had sunk into his last illness.

This was connected with a mortification in his left foot, which had been more or less painful
for several years, but had probably been neglected. His Danish colleague, Mr. Gericke, was
with him most of the time, and it was one of his subjects of thankfulness that he was permitted
to depart out of the world in the society of faithful brethren.  He suffered severely for about
three months, but it was not till the last week that his departure was thought to be near.
He liked to have the English children brought in to read to him chapters of the Bible and sing
Dr. Watts's hymns to him; and the beautiful old German hymns sung by Mr. Gericke and Mr. Kohloff
were his great delight.  Indeed, when at the very last, as he lay almost lifeless, with closed
eyes, Mr. Gericke began to sing the hymn,

   "Only to Thee, Lord JESUS CHRIST,"

he joined in with a clear melodious voice, and accompanied him to the end.  Two hours later,
about four o'clock in the afternoon of the 13th of February, 1798, Christian Friedrich Swartz
breathed his last, in the seventy-second year of his age, and the forty-eighth of his mission
service in India.

The cries and wailings of the poor resounded all night around the house, and Serfojee Rajah
came from a distance to be present at his burial.  It had been intended to sing a funeral hymn,
but the cries and lamentations of the poor so overcame the clergy, that they could scarcely
raise their voices.  Serfojee wept bitterly, laid a gold cloth over the bier, and remained
present while Mr. Gericke read the Funeral Service,--a most unusual departure from Hindoo custom,
and a great testimony of affection and respect.

A few months later arrived the decision of the East India Company, that the weak and rapacious
Ameer Singh should be deposed, and Serfojee placed on the throne.  He conducted himself excellently
as a ruler, and greatly favoured Christians in his territory, always assisting the various
schools, and giving liberal aid whenever the frequently-recurring famines of India brought
them into distress.

Three years later, in 1801, Serfojee wrote to the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge,
to beg them to order a "monument of marble" at his expense, to the memory of the late Rev.
Father Swartz, to be affixed to the pillar nearest the pulpit.  Accordingly, a bas-relief in
white marble was executed by Flaxman, representing the death of Swartz, Gericke behind him,
two native Christians and three children standing by, and Serfojee clasping his hand and receiving
his blessing.  It was not exactly fact, but it was the monumental taste of the day; and it
so much delighted the Rajah, that he kept it in his palace, among the portraits of his ancestors,
for two years before he could resolve on parting with it to the church.  The Prince likewise
composed the epitaph which was carved on the stone which covers the grave of Swartz, the first
instance of English verse by a Hindoo:--

   "Firm wast thou, humble and wise,
   Honest, pure, free from disguise;
   Father of orphans, the widow's support,
   Comfort in sorrow of every sort:
   To the benighted dispenser of light,
   Doing and pointing to that which is right.
   Blessing to princes, to people, to me,
   May I, my father, be worthy of thee,
   Wisheth and prayeth thy Sarabojee."

Swartz had always been striving to be poor, and never succeeding.  Living and eating in the
humblest manner, and giving away all that came to him, still recognitions of services from
English and natives had flowed in on him; and, after all the hosts of poor he had fed, and
of churches and schools he had founded, he was an instance of "there is that scattereth and
yet increaseth;" for the property he bequeathed to the Mission was enough to assist materially
in carrying it on after his death.  Moreover, Serfojee maintained the blind, lame, and decrepit
members of his church, and founded an asylum for the orphan children; so that the good men,
Gericke, Kohloff, Pohle, and the rest, were not absolutely dependent on Europe for assistance;
and this was well, since the Orphan-house at Halle and the Society at Copenhagen had in this
long course of years ceased to send out funds.

But Swartz's work under their hands continued to prosper.  He had a sort of apotheosis among
the heathen, such as he would have been the last to covet; for statues were raised to him,
lights burnt before him, and crowns offered up.  But about Palamcotta and throughout Tinnevelly
there was one of those sudden movements towards Christianity that sometimes takes place.  The
natives were asking instruction from their friends, and going eagerly in search of the catechists
and of Sattianadem, and even burning their idols and building chapels in preparation for the
coming of more fully qualified teachers.  Mr. Gericke made a tour among them in 1803, and found
their hearts so moved towards the Gospel, that he baptized 1,300 in the course of his journey,
and the work of Sattianadem and the catechists raised the number of converts to 4,000.  This
was, however, this good man's last journey.  On his return, he found that his only son, an
officer in the Company's service, was dying, and, under the weight of this and other troubles,
his health gave way, and he died in the thirty-eighth year of his mission.  Others of the original
Danish and German missionaries likewise died, and scarcely any came out in their stead.  Their
places were, therefore, supplied by ordinations, by the assembly of ministers, of four native
catechists, of whom was Nyanapracasem, a favourite pupil of Swartz.  No Church can take root
without a native ministry.  But the absence of any central Church government was grievously
felt, both as concerned the English and the Hindoos.  There were more than twenty English regiments
in India, and not a single chaplain among them all.

CHAPTER IV.  HENRY MARTYN, THE SCHOLAR-MISSIONARY.

Again do we find the steady, plodding labourer of a lifetime contrasted with the warm enthusiast,
whose lot seems rather to awaken others than to achieve victories in his own person.  St. Stephen
falls beneath the stones, but his glowing discourse is traced through many a deep argument
of St. Paul.  St. James drains the cup in early manhood, but his brother holds aloft his witness
to extreme old age.

The ardent zeal of the Keltic character; the religious atmosphere that John Wesley had spread
over Cornwall, even among those who did not enrol themselves among his followers; the ability
and sensitiveness hereditary in the Martyn family, together with the strong influence of a
university tutor,--all combined to make such a bright and brief trail of light of the career
of Henry Martyn, the son of the head clerk in a merchant's office at Truro, born on the 18th
of February, 1781.  This station sounds lowly enough, but when we find that it was attained
by a self-educated man, who had begun life as a common miner, and taught himself in the intervals
of rest, it is plain that the elder Martyn must have possessed no ordinary power.  Out of a
numerous family only four survived their infancy, and only one reached middle age, and in Henry
at least great talent was united to an extreme susceptibility and delicacy of frame, which
made him as a child unusually tender and gentle in manner when at his ease, but fretful and
passionate when annoyed.

Of course he fared as ill with his fellow-scholars at Truro Grammar School as he did well with
the masters; but an elder boy took him under his protection, and not only lessened his grievances
at the time, but founded a lasting friendship.

In 1795, when only fourteen, Henry Martyn was sufficiently advanced to be sent up as a candidate
for a scholarship at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, and passed a very creditable examination,
though he failed in obtaining the election.  Eight years later, we find him congratulating
himself in his journal on thus having escaped the "scenes of debauchery" to which his "profligate
acquaintances" might have introduced him.  Was Corpus very much changed, when, only eleven
years after, John Keble entered it at the same age?  Was it that Martyn's Cornish schoolfellows
were a bad set, or does this thanksgiving proceed from the sort of pious complacency which
religious journalizing is apt to produce in the best of men?

The failure sent Henry back to work for two years longer at the Truro Grammar School, and when
at sixteen he was entered at St. John's, Cambridge (most peculiarly the college of future missionaries),
he immediately made proof of his remarkable talent.  Strange to say, although his father's
rise in life had begun in his mathematical ability, Henry's training in this branch had been
so deficient, and the study appeared so repugnant to him, that his first endeavour at Cambridge
was to learn the proportions of Euclid by heart, without trying to follow their reasoning.
This story is told of many persons, but perhaps of no one else who in four years' time, while
still a month under twenty, was declared Senior Wrangler.

This was in 1801, and the intervening time had been spent in hard study and regular habits,
but neither his sister at home, nor a seriously-minded college friend, were satisfied with
his religious feelings during the first part of the time, and he himself regarded it afterwards
as a period of darkness.  Indeed, his temper was under so little control that in a passion
he threw a knife at a companion, but happily missed his aim, so that it only pierced the wall.
The shock of horror no doubt was good for him.  But the next step he recorded in his life was
his surprise at hearing it maintained that the glory of God, not the praise of man, should
be the chief motive of study.  After thinking it over his mind assented, and he resolved to
maintain this as a noble saying, but did not perceive that it would affect his conduct.

However, the dearest, almost the only hallowed form of the praise of man, was taken from him
by the death of his father in 1799, immediately after the delight of hearing of his standing
first in the Christmas examination.  The expense of a return home was beyond his means, but
he took to reading the Bible, as a proper form to be complied with in the days of mourning;
and beginning with the Acts, as being the most entertaining part, he felt the full weight of
the doctrine of the Apostles borne in on him, and was roused to renew his long-neglected prayers.
When next he went to chapel, with his soul thus awakened, he was struck by perceiving for the
first time how joy for the coming of our Lord rings through the Magnificat.

The great religious influence of the day at Cambridge emanated from the pulpit and the rooms
of the Reverend Charles Simeon, who did a truly remarkable work in stirring up young men to
a sense of the responsibilities of the ministry.  Henry Martyn regularly attended his sermons,
and the newly lighted sparks were also fanned by anxious letters from the good sister at home;
but until the strain, pressure, and excitement of preparing for the final examination were
over, he had little time or attention for any other form of mental exertion.

When, however, he found himself in possession of the highest honours his University could award,
he was amazed to discover how little they satisfied him, and that he felt as if he had grasped
a shadow instead of a substance.

This instinctive longing, the sure token of a mind of the higher pitch, was finding rest as
he became more and more imbued with the spirit of religion, and ventured upon manifesting it
more openly.  He had hitherto intended to apply himself to the law, but the example and conversation
of Charles Simeon brought him to such a perception of the greatness of the office of the ministry
that he resolved to dedicate himself thereto. During the term after this decision was made,
while he was acting as a tutor at his college, he heard Mr. Simeon speak of William Carey and
his self-devotion in India; he read the Life of that kindred spirit, David Brainerd, and the
spark of missionary zeal was kindled in his ardent nature.  The commission "Go ye and teach
all nations" was borne in on his mind, and, with the promptness that was a part of his nature,
he at once offered himself to the "Society for Missions to Africa and the East," which had
been established, in the year 1800, by members of the English Church who wished to act independently
of the elder Society for the Propagation of the Gospel.  The name has since been altered to
the "Church Missionary Society."

However, Martyn was only just twenty-one, and not of an age to take Holy Orders, and he had
therefore to wait, while studying divinity, and acting as a tutor at Cambridge.  All through
his life he kept copious journals of his sensations and resolutions, full of the deepest piety,
always replete with sternness towards himself and others, and tinged with that melancholy which
usually pervades the more earnest of that school which requires conscious feeling as the test
of spiritual life.

In October 1803, he went to Ely for ordination as a deacon, though still wanting five months
of twenty-three.  Those were lax days, there was little examination, and a very low standard
of fitness was required. Henry Martyn was so much scandalized by the lightness of demeanour
of one of his fellow candidates that he spoke to him in strong reproof--with what effect we
do not know, but he records that he never ventured to speak in rebuke, "unless he at the same
time experienced a peculiar contrition of spirit."

He became Mr. Simeon's curate, and at the same time took charge of the neighbouring parish
of Lolworth.  People then had small expectations of clerical care, if a parish could be entrusted
to a young deacon, non-resident, acting as tutor and examiner, and with an assistant curacy
besides!  His whole mind was, however, intensely full of his duties, and so unworthy did he
consider all other occupations that he prayed and struggled conscientiously against the pleasure
he could not but feel, in getting up Thucydides and Xenophon for the examinations.  Everything
not actually devotional seemed to him at these times under a ban, and it is painful to see
how a mind of great scope and power was cramped and contracted, and the spirits lowered by
incessant self-contemplation and distrust of almost all enjoyment.  When, at another time,
he had to examine on "Locke on the Human Understanding," the metaphysical study acting on his
already introspective mind produced a sense of misery and anguish that he could hardly endure.
It is pleasant, however, to find him in another mood, writing, "Since I have known God in a
saving manner, painting, poetry, and music have had charms unknown to me before; I have received
what I suppose is a taste for them, for religion has refined my mind, and made it susceptible
of impressions from the sublime and beautiful."

This, no doubt, was true, but another influence had awakened his heart, earthly perhaps in
itself, but so noble and so holy that it bears a heavenly light.  He had become attached to
a young lady in Cornwall, named Lydia Grenfell, like-minded enough to return his affection.
His intention of volunteering for the Church Missionary Society was overthrown by a disaster
in Cornwall which deprived himself and his unmarried sister of all the provision that their
father had made for them, thus throwing her upon him for maintenance, and making it necessary
that he should obtain a salary that would support her.  It was suggested by some of his friends
that one of the chaplaincies founded by the old East India Company, before the jealousy of
religious teaching had set in, would both give him opportunities for missionary work and enable
him to provide for his sister at home.  Application was accordingly made, and a man of his
talent and character could not fail of being accepted; he was promised the next vacant post,
and went down to spend the long vacation in Cornwall, and bid farewell to all whom he loved
there, for the journey was long and expensive, and he had resolved not to trust himself among
them again.

He writes in his journal, "Parted with Lydia for ever in this life with a sort of uncertain
pain, which I knew would increase to violence."  And so it was, he suffered most acutely for
many days, and, though calmness and comfort came after a time, never were hopes and affections
more thoroughly sacrificed, or with more anguish, than by this most truly devoted disciple
of his Master.

He worked on at Cambridge till he received his appointment in the January of 1805, and he then
only waited to receive Priests' Orders before going to London to prepare for his embarkation.

In those times of war, a voyage to India was a perilous and lengthy undertaking.  A whole fleet
was collected, containing merchant, convict, and transport vessels, all under the convoy of
the ships of war belonging to the Company; and, as no straggler might be left behind, the progress
of the whole was dependent on the rate of sailing of the slowest, and all were impeded by the
disaster of one.  The Union, in which a passage was given to the chaplain, contained, besides
the crew, passengers, the 59th Regiment, some other soldiers, and young cadets, all thrown
closely together for many months.  She sailed from Portsmouth on the 17th of July; but in two
days' time one of the many casualties attendant on at least sixty vessels made the fleet put
into Falmouth, where it remained for three weeks.  This opportunity of intercourse with his
family might well seem an especial boon of Providence to the young missionary, who had denied
himself a last visit to them, and he carried away much comfort from this meeting.  His sister
was engaged to be suitably married, so that he was relieved from care on her account, and some
hope was entertained that Lydia would be able to come out to him in India.  A correspondence
likewise began, which has been in great part preserved. Two days after weighing anchor, the
Union still lingered on the coast, and the well-known outline, with Mount's Bay, the spire
of St. Hilary's church, and all the landmarks so dear and familiar to the young Cornishman's
eye and heart, were watched from morning to night with keen pain and grief, but with steadfast
resolve and constant inward prayer.

Then he addressed himself to the duties of the voyage.  Private study of Hebrew and of Hindostanee
was of course a part; but he hoped to be useful to his companions as a friend and as a minister.
He could only obtain permission to hold one service every Sunday, but he hoped to do much by
private conversations and prayers, and he tried to gain over the cadets by offering to assist
them in their studies, especially mathematics.  Some of them had the sense to see that the
teaching of a senior wrangler was no small advantage, and these read with him throughout the
voyage; but in general they were but raw lads, and followed the example of their superiors,
who for the most part were strongly set against Mr. Martyn. Those were the times when sailors
were utterly uncared for, and when mauvais sujets at home were sent out to India to the corruptions
of a luxurious climate and a heathen atmosphere.  Men of this stamp would think it bad enough
to have a parson on board at all, and when they found that he was a faithful priest, who held
himself bound not to leave them unchecked in their evil courses, they thought themselves aggrieved.
Nor was his manner likely to gain them.  Grave and earnest, he had never in his life known
sportiveness, and his distress and horror at the profanity and blasphemy that rang in his ears
made him doubly sad and stern.  From the first his Sunday service was by most treated as an
infliction, and the officers, both of the ship and of the military, had so little sense of
decency as to sit drinking, smoking, and talking within earshot.  The persons who professed
to attend showed no reverence of attitude; and when he endeavoured to make an impression on
the soldiers and their wives between-decks, he was met with the same rude and careless inattention.

With very little experience of mankind, he imagined that these hardened beings could be brought
to repent by terror, and his discourses were full of denunciations of the wrath of God.  He
was told that, if he threatened them thus, they would not come to hear him, and his reply was
an uncompromising sermon on the text, "The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the people
that forget God."  The bravery of the thing, and the spirit of truth and love that pervaded
all he said on this solemn verse, was not lost upon all: some of the cadets were moved to tears,
and an impression was made upon several persons.  Indeed, there was much that should have induced
serious thought, for, after having touched at Madeira and the Azores, it was made known that
the 59th was to be disembarked at the Cape, to assist in the struggle then going on between
the English and Dutch.  Moreover, there was much sickness on board, and the captain himself,
who had been always bitterly opposed to Mr. Martyn, anxiously called for him to attend upon
his death-bed.

The 59th were landed in Table Bay just in time to take part in Sir David Baird's victory. 
Martyn went on shore the next day to do his best for the wounded; but they were mostly in hospital,
and, being Dutch, he could do little for them.  He found congenial spirits among the Dutch
clergy in Cape Town, and spent a happy month there, but the latter part of his voyage was not
more satisfactory than the first.  The educated portion of the passengers continued to set
their faces against him, treating him with increased contempt, and even turning into ridicule
the farewell sermon, in which he took an affectionate leave of all who had sailed with him.

It may be that his manner was ill-judged, but it is a fearful thing to find that it was possible
for so many Christian people to have been in daily contact with as true a saint as ever lived,
and yet make him their mock!  Perhaps some of his words, and far more his example, may have
borne fruit in after years, such as he never knew of.

The whole voyage had lasted nearly ten months before entering the Hooghly.  While ascending
the stream, the lassitude produced by the climate was so great that Martyn's spirits sank under
it: he thought he should "lead an idle, worthless life to no purpose.  Exertion seemed like
death; indeed, absolutely impossible."  Yet at the least he could write, "Even if I should
never see a native converted, God may design, by my patience and continuance, to encourage
future missionaries."

This feeling of exhaustion was the prelude to a severe attack of fever, which assailed him
almost immediately after his arrival; but happily not till he was safely lodged at Aldeen,
in the kindly house of the Rev. David Brown, where he was nursed till his recovery.  His friends
wanted to keep him among the English at Calcutta, but his heart was set on ministering to the
heathen, and the sights and sounds of idolatry that constantly met him increased his eagerness.
He once rushed out at the sight of the flames of a Suttee, hoping to rescue the victim, but
she had perished before he reached the spot.

His arrival was when the alarm about the meeting at Vellore was at its height, and when the
colony at Serampore had been forbidden to preach or distribute tracts in Calcutta.  He by no
means agreed with all the Baptist doctrines, but he held in great esteem and reverence such
men as Carey and Marshman, was glad to profit by their experience and instructions, and heartily
sympathised in all their difficulties.  Mr. Carey might well write, "A young clergyman, Mr.
Martyn, is lately arrived, who is possessed with a truly missionary spirit."  Together the
Serampore missionaries, with Mr. Martyn, Mr. Corrie, and Mr. Brown, united in dedicating to
the worship of God a heathen pagoda, which the last-mentioned had succeeded in purchasing from
the natives.  Altogether he was much cheered and refreshed.  During the time that he waited
at Aldeen he improved himself in Hindostanee, and began to study Sanscrit, and learnt the most
approved method of dealing with the natives. Moreover, he found that his allowance as a chaplain
was so liberal as amply to justify him in writing to urge Miss Grenfell to come out and join
him; and, during the long period of sixteen or eighteen months before her refusal to do so
reached him, he was full of the hope of receiving her.

His appointed station was Dinapore, where his primary duty was to minister to the English troops
there posted, and to the families of the civilians; but he also hoped to establish native schools,
to preach in their own language to the Hindoos, and to scatter translations of portions of
Scripture, such as the Parables, among them.

He had to read prayers to the soldiers from the drum-head by way of desk; there were no seats,
and he was desired to omit the sermon: but afterwards a room was provided, and then the families
of the officers and residents began to attend, though at first they were much scandalized by
his preaching extempore.  In fact there was a good deal in his whole tone that startled old
orthodoxy; and in the opposition with which he met at times, there was some lawful and just
distrust of the onesidedness of his tenets, together with the ordinary hatred and dislike of
darkness to light.  So scrupulous was he in the Jewish force given by his party to the Fourth
Commandment, that, having one Sunday conceived the plan of translating the Prayer-book into
Hindostanee, he worked at it till he had reached the end of the Te Deum; and there, doubting
whether it were a proper employment for the day, desisted until the Monday, to give himself
up to prayer, singing hymns, Scripture-reading, and meditation.  The immediate value of this
work was for the poor native wives of the English soldiers, whom he found professing Christianity,
but utterly ignorant; and to them every Sunday, after the official English service, he repeated
the Liturgy in the vulgar tongue.  In this holy work he was the pioneer, since Swartz's service
was in Tamul.  While working at his translations with his moonshee, or interpreter, a Mussulman,
he had much opportunity for conversation and for study of the Mahometan arguments, so as to
be very useful to himself; though he could not succeed in convincing the impracticable moonshee,
who had all that self-satisfaction belonging to Mahometanism.  "I told him that he ought to
pray that God would teach him what the truth really is.  He said he had no occasion to pray
on this subject, as the word of God is express."  With the Hindoos at Dinapore, he found, to
his surprise, that there was apparently little disinclination to "become Feringees," as they
called it, outwardly; but the difficulty lay in his insistance on Christian faith and obedience,
instead of a mere external profession.

It was while he was at Dinapore that we first acquire anything like a distinct idea of Henry
Martyn; for there a short halt of the 53rd Regiment brought him in contact with one who had
an eye to observe, a heart to honour, and a pen to describe him; namely, Mrs. Sherwood, the
wife of the paymaster, a woman of deeply religious sentiments and considerable powers as an
author.  Mutual friends had already prepared Mr. Martyn to expect to find like-minded companions
in the Sherwoods, invited to stay with him for the few days of their sojourn at Dinapore. "Mr.
Martyn's quarters," says that lady, "were in the smaller square--a church-like abode, with
little furniture, the rooms wide and high, with many vast doorways, having their green jalousied
doors, and long verandahs encompassing two sides of the quarters."  So scanty, indeed, was
the furniture, that, though he gave up his own bedroom, Mrs. Sherwood could not find a pillow,
not only there, but in the whole house; and, with a severe pain in her face, could get nothing
to lay her head on "but a bolster stuffed as hard as a pin-cushion."

She thus describes the first sight of her host:--"He was dressed in white, and looked very
pale, which, however, was nothing singular in India; his hair, a light brown, was raised from
his forehead, which was a remarkably fine one.  His features were not regular, but the expression
was so luminous, so intellectual, so affectionate, so beaming with Divine charity, that no
one could have looked at his features and thought of their shape or form; the outbeaming of
his soul would absorb the attention of every observer.  There was a very decided air, too,
of the gentleman about Mr. Martyn, and a perfection of manners which, from his extreme attention
to all minute civilities, might seem almost inconsistent with the general bent of his thoughts
to the most serious subjects.  He was as remarkable for ease as for cheerfulness.  He did not
appear like one who felt the necessity of contending with the world and denying himself its
delights, but, rather, as one who was unconscious of the existence of any attractions in the
world, or of any delights which were worthy of his notice.  When he relaxed from his labours
in the presence of his friends, it was to play and laugh like an innocent child, more especially
if children were present to play and laugh with him."

His labours were the incessant charge of the English, travelling often great distances to baptize,
marry, or bury, together with constant teaching in the schools he had established both for
the English and natives, attendance on the sick in the hospitals, and likewise private arguments
with Mahometans and Hindoos.  Public preachings in the streets and bazaars, like those of Swartz,
Carey, and Ward, he does not seem to have attempted at this time; but his translations were
his great and serious employment, and one that gave him much delight.  His thorough classical
education and scholarship fitted him for this in an unusual degree, and besides the Hindostanee
version of the Prayer-book, the Persian--so much wanted in the Bombay Presidency--was committed
to him; and an assistant was sent to him, whose history, disappointing as it is, cannot be
omitted from the account of Indian missions.

Sabat was an Arab of the tribe of Koreish, the same which gave birth to Mahomet himself.  He
was born on the banks of the Euphrates, and educated in such learning as still lingered about
the city of the Khalifs; but he left home early, and served in the Turkish army against the
French at Acre.  Afterwards he became a soldier in the Persian army, where he was several times
wounded, and in consequence retired, and, wandering into Cabul, there rose to be a royal secretary.

He formed a close friendship with his colleague, Abdallah, likewise a Koreishite Arab, and
very able and poetical.  When the Wahabees, the straitest sect of the Mussulmans, seized Mecca,
their chief wrote a letter to the King of Cabul, which was committed to Abdallah to translate
into Persian.  By way of a graceful compliment, he put his translation into Persian verse,
and the reward he received was equally strange; namely, the gift of as many pearls as could
be stuffed into his mouth at once.  He was, however, observed to be unusually grave and thoughtful,
and to frequent the house of an Armenian--of course a Christian: but as this person had a beautiful
daughter, she was supposed to be the attraction, and no suspicion was excited by his request
to retire into his own country.

Soon after Sabat was made prisoner by the Tartars of Bokhara, and, by appealing to the king,
as a descendant of the prophet, obtained his release and promotion to high honour.  While visiting
the city of Bokhara, he recognized his old friend, Abdallah, and, perceiving that his beard
was shaved off, examined him on the cause so closely that he was driven to confess that the
Armenian had converted him to the Christian faith, and that he did not wish to be known.  Hereditary
Christians are tolerated by the Moslem, but converts are bitterly persecuted; and Sabat flew
into a great rage, argued, threatened, and at last denounced his old friend to the Moollahs
as a recreant from Islam.

Abdallah was arrested, and showed himself a true and faithful confessor and martyr.  The Moollahs
strove hard to make him recant.  They demanded of him: "In the Gospel of Christ, is anything
said of our Prophet?"--intending to extort that promise of the Comforter which Mahomet blasphemously
applied to himself.

This brave reply was requited by blows on the mouth till the blood flowed, and Sabat thought
of the day he had seen that same mouth filled with pearls.  Abdallah was sent back to prison,
and four days were allowed him in which to recant; after which he was brought out and set before
an assembled multitude.  Pardon was offered him if he would deny his Lord, and, on his refusal,
his left hand was cut off.  The look of deep sorrow and pity he gave the former friend who
had betrayed him sunk deep into Sabat's heart.  Again his life was offered, again he confessed
himself a Christian, and finally his martyrdom was completed by cutting off his head.

This history Sabat told with feeling and earnestness, that convinced his hearers of its truth;
and from this he did not vary, though his account of his own subsequent adventures varied so
much that it was not possible at last to attach credence to anything he said of himself before
he became expounder of Mohammedan Law in the Civil Court at Vizagapatam.  At any rate Abdallah's
look dwelt with him; he detected discrepancies in the Koran, and became anxious to study the
Christian Scriptures.  He obtained from Bombay a copy, first of the New Testament, then of
the Old, and, having become convinced, he came to Madras, and demanded baptism from Dr. Ker,
the British chaplain.  After some probation, which made Sabat so impatient that he threatened
that he should accuse the minister before God if he delayed, he was baptized by the name of
Nathanael, and sent to Serampore as a person likely to be useful in the translations always
in hand there.

He was delighted with the habits there prevailing, dismissed his attendants, dined at the common
table, and altogether conformed himself to the spirit of the place.  When it was decided to
send him to Dinapore to assist Mr. Martyn in rendering the Bible into Persian, he took leave
of Serampore with tears in his eyes.  He was gladly welcomed by Mr. Martyn, and they worked
together at the Gospel of St. Matthew, Sabat showing a scholar-like anxiety both for correctness
and rhythm; but there was so much of the wild Arab about him that he was a continual anxiety.
The Serampore missionaries thought him a grand, dignified figure.  Mrs. Sherwood paints him
much less pleasantly, and says he was exactly like the sign of the Saracen's head, with intensely
flashing eyes, high nose, white teeth, and jet black eyebrows, moustache, and beard.  His voice
was like rolling thunder, his dress of gorgeous material and thoroughly Oriental, silk skull-cap,
jacket, jewelled girdle, loose trousers, and embroidered shoes, and he had a free and haughty
manner, according with his signature, when writing to a gentleman who had offended him--"Nathanael
Sabat, an Arab, who never was in bondage."

In April 1809, Mr. Martyn was removed to the station at Cawnpore, where the Sherwoods were
then residing.  The time was one of the worst in the whole year for travelling across the sandy
plains, with a wind blowing that made the air like "the mouth of an oven."  For two days and
two nights, between Allahabad and Cawnpore, Mr. Martyn travelled in his palanquin without intermission,
and, having expected to arrive sooner, he had brought no provision for the last day.  "I lay
in my palanquin, faint, with a headache, neither awake nor asleep, between dead and alive,
the wind blowing flames."  When he arrived, Mr. Sherwood had only just time to lead him into
the bungalow before he fainted away, and the hall being the least heated place, a couch was
made ready for him there, where for some days he lay very ill; and the thermometer was never
below 96 degrees, though the punkah never ceased.

As soon as he mended a little, he enjoyed talking over his Hebrew and Greek studies and his
ethnological researches with his clever and eager hostess, who must have greatly refreshed
his spirit.  He delighted in music: his voice and ear were both excellent, and he taught her
many hymns and their tunes.  He also took much pleasure in a little orphan girl whom she was
bringing up.  At this time she herself was almost a childless mother, all her Indian-born infants
having been victims to the climate; but a few months later Mr. Martyn christened her little
daughter Lucy, a child of such gentle, gracious temper that he was wont to call her Serena.
Mrs. Sherwood gives a pretty picture of this little creature, when about eighteen months old,
creeping up to Mr. Martyn as he lay on a sofa with all his books about him, and perching herself
on his Hebrew Lexicon, which he needed every moment, but would not touch so as to disturb her.
The pale, white-clad pastor, and the child with silky hair, bare white feet and arms, and little
muslin frock, looked equally innocent and pure.

Mr. Martyn's house at Cawnpore was at the end of an avenue of palms and aloes: there were two
bungalows connected by a long passage, in one of which he himself lived, the other was given
up to Sabat and his wife.  The garden was prettily laid out with shrubs and tall trees, with
a raised platform in the centre; and on one side was a whole colony, consisting not only of
the usual number of servants allowed to a military chaplain, but of a host of pundits, moonshees,
schoolmasters, and poor nominal Christians, who hung about him because there was no one else
to give them a handful of rice for their daily maintenance.

Here Mrs. Sherwood describes a motley entertainment, at which she was the only lady.  Her husband,
in his scarlet and gold uniform, and Mr. Martyn, in his clerical black silk coat, were the
only other English.  The other European present was Padre Giulio Cesare, an Italian Franciscan,
whom Mr. Martyn was obliged to receive when he came to minister to the numerous Irish Roman
Catholics in the regiment.  He wore a purple satin cassock, a cord of twisted silk, a rosary
of costly stones, and a little skull-cap, and his languages were French with the Sherwoods,
and Italian and Latin with Mr. Martyn.  Sabat was there in his Arab dress; there was a thin,
copper-coloured, half-caste gentleman in white nankeen, speaking only Bengalee; and a Hindoo
in full costume, speaking only his native tongue: so that no two of the party were in similar
costume, seven languages were employed, and moreover the three Orientals viewed it as good
breeding to shout at the very top of their voices.

Unluckily, too, Mr. Martyn in his politeness suddenly recollected that Mrs. Sherwood had expressed
a liking for certain mutton patties, and ordered them to be brought, in a bachelor's entire
oblivion whether any mutton was procurable otherwise than by killing a sheep: and the delay
forced the guests to continue to sit on the platform in the dark, with the voices and languages
making too great a Babel for the night-enjoyment sometimes so valued, when Mr. Martyn would
show Mrs. Sherwood our own Pole Star just above the horizon, or watch the new moon "looking
like a ball of ebony in a silver cup."  At last the patties were ready, and Mr. Martyn handed
Mrs. Sherwood to a seat by him at the top of the table, while Sabat perched himself cross-legged
upon a chair at the bottom.

The good chaplain's simplicity seems to have been a great amusement to the Sherwoods.  Late
one evening he quietly observed, "The coolie does not come with my money: I was thinking this
morning how rich I should be, and now I should not wonder in the least if he has run off and
taken my treasure with him."  Thereupon it turned out that, not having drawn his pay for some
time, he had sent a note to the collector at Cawnpore, asking that the amount should be forwarded
by the bearer, a common coolie.  It was all paid in silver, tied up in cotton bags, and no
one expected that he would ever see it; however, the coolie arrived safely with it a little
later.  Another time, when each household had ordered a pineapple cheese, it was observed that
the fissures in the two were marvellously similar; and at last it was discovered that the servants,
though paid for two cheeses, made one do duty for both, appearing in turn at the two tables,
which was the easier as Mr. Martyn supped on limes and other fruits, and only produced his
cheese when the Sherwoods came to supper.  He heeded little but his immediate thoughts, and,
when he drove out in his gig, went on with his disquisitions on language and pronunciation,
utterly unheeding what his horse was about.

The hope of having Lydia with him to brighten his life and aid his labours had by this time
passed away.  She had some entanglement which prevented her from coming out to India, and his
disappointment was most acute.  His letters urging her to come out to him are so strong, and
full of such anguish, that it is hard to understand that the person who could withstand them
could have been the admirable woman Miss Grenfell is described to have been in after-life--unless,
indeed, Martyn did not appreciate the claims at home to which she yielded.  "Why do things
go so well with them and so hardly with me?" was a thought that would come into his mind at
the weddings where he officiated as priest.  Meantime he had established native schools, choosing
a master, usually a Mussulman, and giving him an anna a head for each boy whom he obtained
as a scholar in reading and writing.  Mr. Martyn supplied books, and these were translations
of Scripture history, of the Parables, and the like, through which he hoped to lay a foundation
for distinctive teaching.  Here is Mrs. Sherwood's description of the Cawnpore school, then
in a long shed by the side of the cavalry lines:--

"The master sat at one end like a tailor on the dusty floor, and along under the shed sat the
scholars, a pack of little urchins with no other clothes on than a skull-cap and a piece of
cloth round their loins.  These little ones squatted, like their master, in the sand: they
had wooden imitations of slates in their hands, on which, having first written their lessons
with chalk, they recited them a pleine gorge, as the French would say, being sure to raise
their voices on the approach of any European or native of note.  Now Cawnpore is one of the
most dusty places in the world; the Sepoy lines are the most dusty part of Cawnpore; and as
the little urchins are always well greased either with cocoa-nut oil, or, in failure thereof,
with rancid mustard oil, whenever there was the slightest breath of air they always looked
as if they had been powdered all over with brown powder.  Who that has ever heard it, can forget
the sounds of the various notes with which these little people intonated their 'Aleph, Zubbin
ah, Zair a, Paiche oh,' as they moved backwards and forwards in their recitations?  Who can
forget the self-importance of the schoolmaster, who was generally a grey-bearded, dry, old
man, who had no other means of proving his superiority to the scholars than by making more
noise than even they could?"

{i:Henry Martyn's first endeavour at native preaching: p1.jpg}

In the winter of 1809, Mr. Martyn made his first endeavour at native preaching.  The Yogis
and Fakers, devotees and vagrants, haunted the station, and every Sunday evening he opened
the gates of his garden, admitted all who were collected by the assurance of the distribution
of a pice a head; and standing on his platform, read to them some simple verse of Scripture,
and then endeavoured to make them believe there is a pure Almighty Universal Father.  A frightful
crowd: they were often five hundred in number.  "No dreams," says Mrs. Sherwood, "in the delirium
of a raging fever, could surpass the realities" of their appearance; "clothed with abominable
rags, or nearly without clothes, or plastered with mud and cow-dung, or with long matted locks
streaming down to their heels; every countenance foul and frightful with evil passions; the
lips black with tobacco, or crimson with henna.  One man, who came in a cart drawn by a bullock,
was so bloated as to look like an enormous frog; another had kept an arm above his head with
his hand clenched till the nail had come out at the back of his hand; and one very tall man
had all his bones marked on his dark skin with white chalk, like the figure of grim Death himself."
The assemblage, in contrast with the pure, innocent, pale face and white dress of the preacher
who addressed them, must have been like some of Gustave Dore's illustrations.

These addresses were jealously watched by the British authorities, and were often interrupted
by the howls and threatenings of his loathsome congregation; while, moreover, pulmonary complaint,
the enemy of his family, began to manifest itself, so that the physicians insisted on his trying
the effect of cessation from work, a sea-voyage, and a visit to England.  On this plan he had
at first fixed.  He enters in his journal a happy dream of a walk with Lydia, and, waking,
the recollection of the 16,000 miles between them; but in the meantime he heard from the critics
at Calcutta, that his translation of the Gospels into Persian, done with the assistance of
Sabat, was too full of Arabic idioms, and in language not simple enough for its purpose; and
he therefore made up his mind to spend his leave of absence in making his way through Persia
and part of Arabia, so as to improve himself in the languages, and submit his translation to
more trustworthy scholars.  Mr. Brown, on hearing of his plan, consented in these remarkable
terms: "Can I then bring myself to cut the string and let you go?  I confess I could not if
your bodily frame were strong, and promised to last for half a century.  But as you burn with
the intenseness and rapid blaze of phosphorus, why should we not make the most of you?  Your
flame may last as long, and perhaps longer, in Arabia than in India.  Where should the phoenix
build her odoriferous nest but in the land prophetically called the 'blessed'?  And where shall
we ever expect but from that country the true Comforter to come to the nations of the East?"

In September, therefore, Henry Martyn made ready to set forth, and to take leave of his congregation
of beggars.  He had baptized one poor old Hindoo woman, and she seemed to him to be the only
fruit of his toils; but though the exhortation, at the end of all his labours of the Sunday,
cost him severe pain and exhaustion, he had constantly persisted, often beginning in a low
feeble tone, but gradually rising in fervour to the full power of his musical voice; then himself
going among the disgusting throng to distribute their petty bribe for attendance, and often
falling afterwards, faint and speechless, on a sofa.

He knew not that one seed, cast on these turbid waters, had found good soil, and was springing
up.  Sheik Salah was the son of a pundit at Delhi, and was well-learned in Persian and Arabic.
When a youth he had become moonshee to two English gentlemen then living at Lucknow, and while
in their service converted a Hindoo fellow-servant from his idolatry to Islam.  Elated with
his success, he gave himself such airs that his English masters reproved him; and he left them
in displeasure, vowing never to serve a Feringhee again.  However, being in the pay of a Mahratta
chief, he was sent in company with a Mahometan envoy who had undertaken to murder a rival of
his master, and having lulled his victim into security by an oath on the Koran that no treachery
was intended, decoyed him into his tent, and there stabbed him.

Sheik Salah was a deeply conscientious man, and not only did he leave the Mahratta service,
lest some such horrible act should be required of him, but he conceived a certain distrust
of his own faith, which, though it condemns such deeds, had not hindered them.  While in search
of employment, he came to Cawnpore, and there, one fine evening, he sat with some other young
Mussulmans, in a summer-house on the garden wall that bounded Mr. Martyn's garden, enjoying
their hookahs and sherbet, and amusing themselves with what they called the "foolishness" of
the Feringhee Padre, who was discoursing to the throng of hateful looking beggars below.  By
and by, anxious to hear more, they came down, entered the garden, and stood in a row before
the front of the bungalow; their arms folded, their turbans placed jauntily on one side, and
their countenances expressive of the utmost contempt.

But the words that Sheik Salah caught were sinking deep.  They were of the intense purity and
holiness of God and of His laws, and of the need of His power to attain to the keeping of them,
as well as of His Sacrifice to atone for man's sinfulness.  Sheik Salah could not rest without
hearing more, and becoming determined to obtain employment at Cawnpore, he undertook to copy
Persian manuscripts for Sabat, and was lodged by him in one of the numerous huts in Mr. Martyn's
compound.  He was a well-educated, graceful man, exceedingly handsome, looking like a hero
of the Old Testament; and probably Sabat was afraid of a rival, for he never mentioned to Mr.
Martyn the stranger who, Sunday after Sunday, listened to his preaching, and no doubt would
have as thankfully profited by his individual teaching as he would have joyfully given it.

Sabat was at this time a great trial to Mr. Martyn, who in the flush of enthusiasm had let
him be put too forward at first, and found the wild man of the desert far too strong for him.
Sometimes, when they differed about a word in the translation, Sabat would contend so violently
for a whole morning that poor Mr. Martyn, when unable to bear it any longer, would order his
palanquin and be carried over to the Sherwoods to escape from the intolerable brawling shout.
What Sabat could be was plain from the story of his wife Amina; his seventh, as he told his
friends.  When he was trying to convert her, she asked his views upon the future lot of those
who remained Mahometans, and, when he consigned them to the state of condemnation, she quietly
replied that she greatly preferred hell without Sabat's company to heaven with him.  The poor
man was no doubt in great measure sincere, but his probation had been insufficient, and his
wild Ishmaelitish nature, so far from being overcome, gained in pride and violence through
the enthusiasm that was felt for him as a convert.  Once, in a fit of indignation, he wrote
a Persian letter, full of abuse of Mr. Martyn, to a friend in the service of the English resident
at Lucknow.  By him it was carried to his master, who, wishing to show Mr. Martyn the real
character of his favourite convert, sent him the letter.  Instead of looking into it, Mr. Martyn
summoned Sabat, and bade him read it aloud to him.  For once the Arab was overpowered; he cowered
before his calm master and entreated his pardon, and when Mr. Martyn put the letter into his
hands, assuring him that he had not read it, he was really touched, and showed sorrow for his
violence.

On the last Sunday of September 1810, Mr. Martyn took leave of Cawnpore. It was also the Sunday
of the installation as chaplain of his dearest friend, the Reverend Daniel Corrie, and of the
opening of a church which his exertions had prevailed to raise, whereas all former services
had been in his own long verandah.  The first sound of the bell most deeply affected those
who had scarcely heard one since they had left their native country.  That church has given
place to the beautiful building which commemorates the horrors of 1857; but the name of Henry
Martyn ought never to be forgotten at Cawnpore, if only as the priest to whom it was granted
first to give thanks that, in his own words, "a temple of God was erected and a door opened
for the service of the Almighty in a place where, from the foundation of the world, the tabernacle
of the true God had never stood."

After returning from church he sank, nearly fainting, on a sofa in the hall; but, as soon as
he revived, begged his friends to sing to him.

After the early dinner and afternoon rest, on a sickly, hazy, burning evening, he preached
for the last time to his beggars; came away fainting, and as he lay on his sofa told his friends
that he did not believe that he had ever made the slightest impression on one of his audience
there.

He knew not that Sheik Salah's heart had been touched, and so deeply that he sought further
instruction.  As to Sabat, his later career was piteous.  He fell back into Mahometanism, and,
after some years of a wandering life, took service with the Mussulman chief of Acheen in Sumatra,
where, having given some offence, he was barbarously hacked to pieces and thrown into the sea.
Such bitter disappointments occur in missionary life; and how should we wonder, since the like
befel even St. Paul and St. John?

On the 1st of October, 1810, Mr. Martyn embarked on the Ganges, and on the last day of the
month arrived at Mr. Brown's house at Aldeen.  He was then much the stronger for the long rest
to his voice and chest, but his friends thought him greatly changed and enfeebled, and he could
not even hold a conversation without bringing on painful symptoms.  Nevertheless, he preached
every Sunday but one at Calcutta until the 7th of January, 1811, when he took his last leave
of his Anglo-Indian friends, and set forth on his journey to lands almost entirely strange
even to his countrymen, in the hope of rendering the Scriptures available for the study of
the numerous Hindoos and Mahometans who understood Persian better than any other literary language.
He went forth, in broken health, and not only without a companion, but without even an attendant,
and for his further history we have only his own journals and letters to depend upon.  He went
by sea to Bombay with a captain who had been a pupil of Swartz, and whose narratives delighted
him much, and afterwards obtained a passage in an English ship which was to cruise in the Persian
Gulf against Arab pirates.  Here he was allowed to have public prayers every evening, and on
the 22nd of May was landed at Bushire, where he was lodged in the house of an English merchant
with an Armenian wife.

The time for a journey to Persia was so far favourable that the Shah, Fath' Ali, who had succeeded
to the throne in 1794, owed England much gratitude for having interfered to check the progress
of Russian conquest upon his northern frontier.  After Persia had long been closed from foreign
intercourse by the jealous and cruel Shah, Aga Mohammed, Fath' Ali, a comparatively enlightened
prince in the prime of life, willingly entertained envoys and travellers from European courts,
and Sir Gore Ouseley was resident at Shiraz as British Ambassador.  Yet it was not considered
safe for a Frank to travel through Persia without an Oriental dress, and, accordingly, Martyn
had to provide himself with the tall conical cap of black Tartar lambskin, baggy blue trousers,
red boots, and a chintz coat, allowing his beard and moustache to grow, and eating rice by
handfuls from the general dish.  Meantime he was hospitably entertained, the Armenian ladies
came in a body to kiss his hand, and the priest placed him beside the altar in church, and
incensed him four times over, for which he was not grateful on being told "it was for the honour
of our order."

An English officer joined company with him, and a muleteer undertook their transport to Shiraz.
It was a terrible journey up the parching mountain paths of Persia, where Alexander's army
had suffered so much, with the sun glaring down upon them, never, in that rainless belt around
the Persian Gulf, tempered by a cloud.  They travelled only by night, and encamped by day,
sometimes without a tree to spread their tents under. The only mode of existing was to wrap
the head in a wet cloth, and the body in all the heavy clothing to be had, to prevent the waste
of moisture; but even thus Martyn says his state was "a fire within my head, my skin like a
cinder, the pulse violent."  The thermometer rose to 126 degrees in the middle of the day,
and came down to about 100 degrees in the evening.  When exhausted with fever and sleeplessness,
but unable to touch food, it was needful to mount, and, in a half-dead state of sleepiness,
be carried by the sure-footed mountain pony up steep ascents, and along the verge of giddy
precipices, with a general dreamy sense that it was magnificent scenery for any one who was
in a bodily condition to admire it.

Swift clear streams and emerald valleys began to refresh the travellers as they rose into the
higher land above the arid region; and, after one twenty-four hours' halt in a sort of summer-house,
where Henry Martyn was too ill to move till he had had a few hours of sleep, they safely arrived
at the mountain-city of Shiraz, where he was kindly received by Jaffier Ali Khan, a Persian
gentleman to whom he had brought letters of introduction.

Persia, as is well known, has a peculiar intellectual character of its own.  Descended from
the Indo-European stock, and preserved from total enervation by their mountain air, the inhabitants
have, even under Islam, retained much of the vivacity, fire, and poetry inherent in the Aryan
nature.  Their taste for beauty, especially in form and colour, has always been exquisite;
their delight in gardens, in music, and poetry has had a certain refinement, and with many
terrible faults--in especial falsehood and cruelty, the absence of the Turkish stolidity, the
Arab wildness, and the Hindoo pride and indolence--has always made them an attractive people.
Their Mahommedanism, too, is of a different form from that of the Arab and Turk.  Theirs is
the schismatical sect of Ali, which is less rigid, and affords more scope for the intellect
and fancy, and it has thrown off a curious body called the Soofees, a sort of philosophers
in relation to Islam.  The name may be either really taken from the Greek Sophos, wise, or
else comes from the Persian Soof, purity.  The Soofees profess to be continually in search
of truth, and seem, for the most part, to rest upon a general belief in an all-pervading Creator,
with a spirit diffused through all His works.  Like their (apparent) namesakes of old, they
revel in argument, and delight to tell or to hear some new thing.

Thus, Jaffier Ali Khan, who belonged to this sect, made the English padre welcome; and his
brother, Seid Ali, whose title of Mirza shows him to have been a Scribe, undertook to assist
in the translation, while Moollahs and students delighted to come and hold discussions with
him; and very vain and unprofitable logomachies he found them, whether with Soofee, Mahometan,
or Jew.  But the life, on the whole, was interesting, since he was fulfilling his most important
object of providing a trustworthy and classical version of the Scriptures, such as might adequately
express their meaning, and convey a sense of their beauty of language and force of expression
to the scholarly and fastidious Oriental.

He made friends in the suite of the Ambassador, Sir Gore Ouseley, whose house he ministered
on Sunday, and he was presented by him to the heir to the throne, Prince Abbas Mirza.  He had,
by way of Court dress, to wear a pair of red cloth stockings and high-heeled shoes, and was
marched up through the great court of the palace, where a hundred fountains began to play the
moment the Ambassador entered.  The Prince sat on the ground in his hall of audience, and all
his visitors sat in a line with their hats on, but he conversed with no one but the Ambassador,
looking so gentle and amiable that Mr. Martyn could hardly believe that the tyrannical acts
reported of him could be true.

In the summer heat, Jaffier Ali pitched a tent for him in a garden outside the walls of Shiraz,
where he worked with much enjoyment, "living among clusters of grapes, by the side of a clear
stream," and sitting under the shade of an orange-tree.  From thence he made an expedition
to see the ruins of Persepolis, greatly to the perplexity of his escort, who, after repeatedly
telling him that the place was uninhabited, concluded that he had come thither to drink brandy
in secret!

On the New Year's Day of 1812 Martyn wrote in his journal: "The present year will probably
be a perilous one, but my life is of little consequence, whether I live to finish the Persian
New Testament, or do not.  I look back with pity and shame on my former self, and on the importance
I then attached to my life and labours.  The more I see of my own works, the more I am ashamed
of them.  Coarseness and clumsiness mar all the works of men.  I am sick when I look at man,
and his wisdom, and his doings, and am relieved only by reflecting that we have a city whose
builder and maker is God.  The least of His works is refreshing to look at.  A dried leaf or
a straw makes me feel myself in good company. Complacency and admiration take the place of
disgust."

On the 24th of February he finished his Persian New Testament, and in six weeks more his translation
of the Psalms.  His residence in Persia had lasted just a year, and, though direct missionary
work had not been possible to him there, he had certainly inspired his coadjutor, Mirza Seid
Ali, with a much higher morality and with something very like faith. On one of the last days
before his leaving Shiraz, Seid Ali said seriously, "Though a man had no other religious society,
I suppose he might, with the aid of the Bible, live alone with God."  It was to this solitude
that Martyn left him, not attempting apparently to induce him to give up anything for the sake
of embracing Christianity.  Death would probably have been the consequence of joining the Armenian
Church in Persia, but why did Martyn's teaching stop at inward faith instead of insisting on
outward confession, the test fixed by the Saviour Himself?

On the 24th of May, Mr. Martyn and another English clergyman set out to lay his translation
before the Shah, who was in his camp at Tebriz.  There they were admitted to the presence of
the Vizier, before whom two Moollahs, the most ignorant and discourteous whom he had met in
Persia, were set to argue with the English priest.  The Vizier mingled in the discussion, which
ended thus: "You had better say God is God, and Mahomet is His prophet."  "God is God," repeated
Henry Martyn, "and JESUS is the Son of God."

"He is neither born nor begets," cried the Moollahs; and one said, "What will you say when
your tongue is burnt out for blasphemy?"

He had offended against the Mohammedan doctrine most strictly held; and, knowing this well,
he had kept back the confession of the core of the true faith till to withhold it longer would
have been a denial of his Lord.  After all, he was not allowed to see the Shah without the
Ambassador to present him, and descended again to Sultania--a painful journey, from which he
brought a severe ague and fever, through which he was nursed by Sir Gore and Lady Ouseley.

As soon as he had recovered, he decided on making his way to Constantinople, and thence to
England, where he hoped to recruit his health and, it might be, induce Lydia to accompany him
back to India.  His last letter to her was written from Tebriz on the 28th of August, dreading
illness on the journey, but still full of hope.  In that letter, too, he alludes to Sabat as
the greatest tormentor he had known, but warns her against mentioning to others that this "star
of the East," as Claudius Buchanan had called him, had been a disappointment.  His diary is
carried on as far as Tocat.  The last entry is on the 6th of October. It closes thus: "Oh!
when shall time give place to eternity?  When shall appear that new heaven and earth wherein
dwelleth righteousness?  There, there shall in nowise enter in anything that defileth; none
of that wickedness which has made men worse than wild beasts, none of those corruptions which
add still more to the miseries of mortality, shall be seen or heard of any more."

No more is known of Henry Martyn save that he died at Tocat on the 16th of that same October
of 1812, without a European near.  It is not even known whether his death were caused by fever,
or by the plague, which was raging at the place.  He died a pilgrim's solitary death, and lies
in an unknown grave in a heathen land.

What fruit has his mission zeal left?  It has left one of the soul-stirring examples that have
raised up other labourers.  It has left the Persian Bible for the blessing of all to whom that
language is familiar.  It left, for the time, a strong interest in Christianity in Shiraz.
It left in India many English quickened to a sense of religion; and it assuredly left Sheik
Salah a true convert.  Baptized afterwards by the name of Abdul Messeh, or Servant of the Messiah,
he became the teacher of no less than thirty-nine Hindoos whom he brought to Holy Baptism.
Such were the reapings in Paradise that Henry Martyn has won from his thirty-one years' life
and his seeming failure.

CHAPTER V.  WILLIAM CAREY AND JOSHUA MARSHMAN, THE SERAMPORE MISSIONARIES.

The English subjects and allies in India had hitherto owed their scanty lessons in Christianity
to Germans or Danes, and the first of our own countrymen who attempted the work among them
was, to the shame of our Government be it spoken, a volunteer from among the humblest classes,
of no more education than falls to the lot of the child of a village schoolmaster and parish clerk.

In 1761, when Schwartz was just beginning to make his way in Tanjore, William Carey was born
in the village of Paulerspury, in Northamptonshire.  He showed himself a diligent scholar in
his father's little school, and had even picked up some Latin before, at fourteen years old,
he was apprenticed to a shoemaker at the neighbouring village of Hackleton.  Still he had an
earnest taste for study; and, falling in with a commentary on the New Testament full of Greek
words, he copied them all out, and carried them for explanation to a man living in his native
village, who had thrown away a classical education by his dissipated habits.

The young shoemaker, thus struggling on to instruct himself, fell under the notice of Thomas
Scott, the author of the Commentary on the Bible, and it was from him that Carey first received
any strong religious impressions.  Scott was a Baptist; and young Carey, who had grown up in
the days of the deadness of the Church, was naturally led to his teacher's sect, and began
to preach at eighteen years of age.  He always looked back with humiliation to the inexperienced
performances of his untried zeal at that time of life; but he was doing his best to study,
working hard at grammar, and every morning reading his portion of the Scripture for the day
in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, as well as English. Well might Mr. Scott say, as he looked at
the little cobbler's shop, "That was Mr. Carey's college;" for all this time he was working
at his trade, and, on his master's death, took the business, and married the daughter of the
house before he was twenty.

It was an unlucky marriage, for she was a dull, ignorant woman, with no feeling for her husband's
high aims or superior powers, and the business was not a flourishing one; but he never manifested
anything but warm affection and tenderness towards this very uncompanionable person, and perhaps,
like most men of low station and unusual intellect, had no idea that more could be expected
of a wife.

Perhaps, in spite of his kindness, Mrs. Carey had to endure the disasters common to the wives
of struggling great men: for William Carey's shoes were not equal to his sermons, and his congregation
were too poor even to raise means to clothe him decently.  His time was spent in long tramps
to sell shoes he had made and to obtain the mending of others, and, meantime, he was constantly
suffering from fever and ague.

In 1786, when in his twenty-fifth year, he obtained a little Baptist chapel and the goodwill
of a school at Moulton; but as a minister he only received 16l. per annum, and at the same
time proved, as many have done before him, that aptness to learn does not imply aptness to
teach.  He could not keep order, and his boys first played tricks with him and then deserted,
till he came nearly to starvation, and had to return to his last and his leather.

Yet it was the geography lessons of this poor little school that first found the way to the
true chord of Carey's soul.  Those broad tracts of heathenism that struck his eye in the map,
and the summary of nations and numbers professing false religions, were to a mind like his
no mere items of information to be driven into dull brains, but were terrible realities representing
souls perishing for lack of knowledge.  Cook's Voyages fell into his hands and fed the growing
impulse.  He hung up in his shop a large map, composed of several sheets pasted together, and
gazed at it when at his work, writing against each country whatever information he had been
able to collect as to the number of the inhabitants, their religion, government, or habits,
also as to the climate and natural history.

After he had for some time thus dwelt on the great longing of his heart, he ventured on speaking
it forth at a meeting of ministers at Northampton, when there was a request that some topic
might be named for discussion.  Carey then modestly rose and proposed "the duty of Christians
to attempt the spread of the Gospel among the heathen."  The words were like a shock.  The
senior, who acted as president, sprang up in displeasure, and shouted out, "Young man, sit
down!  When God pleases to convert the heathen, He will do it without your aid or mine."  And
another, namely Mr. Fuller, who afterwards became the sheet anchor of the Missions, describes
himself as having thought of the words of the noble at Jezreel, "If the Lord should make windows
in heaven, might such a thing be?"

Silenced by his brethren, Carey persevered, and proceeded to write what he had not been allowed
to speak.  A Birmingham tradesman of the name of Pott, an opulent man, was induced by his earnestness
to begin a subscription for the publication of Carey's pamphlet, which showed wonderful acquaintance
with the state of the countries it mentioned, and manifested talent of a remarkable order.
In truth, Carey had been endowed with that peculiar missionary gift, facility for languages.
A friend gave him a large folio in Dutch, and was amazed by his returning shortly after with
a translation into English of one of the sermons which the book contained.

He was becoming more known, and an invitation from a congregation at Leicester, in 1789, placed
him in somewhat more comfortable circumstances, and brought him into contact with persons better
able to enter into his views; but it was three years more before he could either publish his
pamphlet or take the very first steps towards the establishment of a Society for Promoting
the Conversion of the Heathen.

The first endeavour to collect a subscription resulted in 13l. 2s. 6d.  This was at Kettering,
and at the same time Carey offered to embark for any country the Society might appoint.  The
committee, however, waited to collect more means, but they found it almost impossible to awaken
people's minds.  At Birmingham, indeed, 70l. was collected, but in London the dissenting pastors
would have nothing to do with the cause; and the only minister of any denomination who showed
any sympathy was the Rev. John Newton, that giant of his day, who had in his youth been captain
of a slaver, and well knew what were the dark places of the earth.  The objections made at
that time were perfectly astounding.  In the General Assembly of the Kirk of Scotland, several
Presbyterian ministers pronounced it to be "highly preposterous" to attempt to spread the Gospel
among barbarous nations, extolled the "simple virtues" of the untutored savage, and even declared
that the funds of Missionary Societies might be turned against Government.

In India itself, the endeavours of the Danish settlement at Tranquebar had little affected
Bengal, but a few of the more religious men at Calcutta had begun to be shocked at the utter
oblivion of all Christian faith and morality by their own countrymen, and the absolute favour
shown to the grossest idolatry of the heathen.  Charles Grant, a member of the Board of Trade
at Calcutta, was the foremost of these, and on his return to England brought the subject under
the notice of that great champion of Christ, William Wilberforce.  The charter of the East
India Company was renewed from time to time; and when it was brought before Parliament, Wilberforce
proposed the insertion of clauses enforcing the maintenance of chaplains, churches, and schools,
so that a branch of the Church might take root in Hindostan.

This scheme, however, excited violent and selfish alarm in the directors, chiefly men who had
made their fortunes in India, and after living there for years under no restraint were come
home to enjoy their riches.  They believed that the natives would take umbrage at the least
interference with their religion, and that their own wealth and power, so highly prized, would
be lost if idolatry were not merely tolerated, but flattered and supported.  The souls of men
and the honour of God were nothing to them; they were furious with indignation, and procured
from the House of Commons the omission of the clauses.  There was another hope in the Lords;
but though Archbishop Moore and the Bishop of London spoke in favour of the articles, the Bishop
of St. David's said one nation had no right to impose its faith on another.  None of the other
Bishops stirred, and the charter passed without one line towards keeping Englishmen Christians,
or making Hindoos such!  The lethargy of the Church of the eighteenth century was so heavy
that not only had such a son as Carey been allowed to turn from her pale in search of earnest
religion, but while she was forced to employ foreigners, bred up in the Lutheran communion,
as the chaplains and missionaries of her Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, he was
going forth unaccredited as a volunteer in the cause which her paralysed efforts could not support!

For it was to India that the minds of the little Baptist Society were turned by the return
of one John Thomas, who seems to have been the Gaultier Sans Avoir of this crusade.  He was
Baptist by education, and having gone out as a surgeon to Calcutta, had been so shocked at
the state of things as to begin to preach on his own account, but he was a hot tempered, imprudent
man, and quarrelled with everybody, so as to make the cause still more unpopular with the East
Indians.  Yet this strange, wild character had a wonderful power of awakening enthusiasm. 
He had come home in the same ship with one Wilson, whose history was a marvel in itself.  He
had been made prisoner by the French during the Carnatic war, and finding that the captives
were to be delivered up to Hyder Ali, he resolved to escape, leapt forty feet from his prison
window, and swam the river Coleroon, in happy ignorance that it was infested with alligators;
but then going up an eminence to judge of his bearings, he was seen, secured, and stripped
naked, and, with his hands tied behind him, was driven before Hyder Ali.  His account of having
crossed the Coleroon was treated as a lie.  "No mortal man," said the natives, "had ever swum
the river; did he but dip a finger in, he would be seized by the alligators," but when evidence
proved the fact, the Nabob held up his hands and cried, "This is the man of God."  Nevertheless
Wilson was chained to a soldier, and, like the well-known David Baird, John Lindsay, and many
others, was driven naked, barefoot, and wounded, 500 miles to Seringapatam; where, loaded with
irons of thirty-two pounds weight, and chained in couples, they were thrust into a "black hole,"
and fed so scantily that Wilson declared that at sight of food his jaws snapped together of
themselves. Many a time in the morning corpses were unchained, and the survivors coupled up
together again.  Wilson was one of the thirty-one who lived to be released after twenty-two
months, in a frightful state of exhaustion and disease.  Afterwards, when commanding a ship
at Bencoolen, every European under his command died, and he alone escaped, yet all this time
he was an absolute infidel; and, when having made a fortune, he was returning home, he appeared
so utterly hardened against all the arguments that the zealous Thomas could bring in favour
of Christianity, as to make him in despair remark to the chief officer that he should have
more hope of converting the Lascar sailors than of Captain Wilson.

However, the words were penetrating the hitherto ignorant or obdurate heart, and preparing
it to attend to further instruction.  After some years of comfort at home, on hearing of plans
for a mission to the South Sea Islands, Wilson resolved to offer himself as a free and spontaneous
fellow-worker, ready to sacrifice his whole self in the great cause!

Meantime Thomas's fervid account of the needs of India had made the infant Society propose
to send him out with one colleague; and William Carey, now thirty-three years of age, offered
himself as a fellow-worker.

The notion was terrible to Mrs. Carey, who flatly refused to go; but her husband decided on
leaving her at home, and only taking his eldest boy, then about ten or eleven years old.  An
application was made to the Board of Directors for a licence to the two missionaries to preach,
and for a passage in one of the Company's vessels; but when Mr. Grant learnt that Thomas was
one of them, he refused to assist in promoting their request, though he undertook to do what
he could for Carey alone.  However, the Board were certain to refuse them a passage; not because
they were unordained or dissenters, but simply because they wished to be Christian teachers.
A captain with whom Thomas had sailed as surgeon, offered to smuggle them over without permission;
but while his ship was preparing, they had to wait in the Isle of Wight, and Thomas was continually
in danger of being arrested by his creditors, and was constantly obliged to hide himself, till
Carey became ashamed of such an associate.  At last, just as they were on board, with 250l.
paid for their passage, and the goods in which the money for their support had been invested,
the captain received a letter warning him that an information was about to be laid against
him at the India House for taking out people without permission. Not only missionaries, but
Europeans of any kind, not in the public service, were forbidden to set foot on the Company's
territories without special licence, and the danger was so great that the captain set them
ashore at once; and poor Carey beheld with tears the Indian fleet sailing from Portsmouth without
him.

However, by vigorous exertion, Thomas found that a Danish ship would be lying in the Downs,
on her way to the East Indies, and that a passage in her would cost 100l. for a full-grown
person and 50l. for a child. Posting down to Northamptonshire, Carey made a desperate effort
to persuade his wife to come with him, and succeeded at last, on condition that her sister,
Miss Old, should come too.  There were now five children, and the passage-money for the whole
party amounted to 600l., of which their utmost efforts, including the sale of all the little
property the Careys possessed, could only raise half.

Thomas, who really had a generous spirit, then arranged that the whole party should be squeezed
into two cabins, and that Mr. and Mrs. Carey alone should be treated as first-class passengers.
They were taken on these terms; but the captain, an Englishman, naturalized in Denmark, gave
Mr. Thomas and Miss Old each a cabin, made them dine at his own table, and treated them all
most kindly.

Thus they safely arrived at Calcutta; but this was only the beginning of troubles.  The goods,
the sale of which was intended to maintain the mission, were entrusted to Thomas, and realized
next to nothing; and Carey was indebted to the goodwill of a rich Hindoo for a miserable house
in an unhealthy suburb of Calcutta, where he lodged his unfortunate family.  They had a great
deal of illness, and he was able to do little but study the language and endeavour to translate
the Bible into Bengalee.  Several moves made their state rather worse than better, until, in
1795, a gentleman in the Civil Service, Mr. George Udney, offered Carey the superintendence
of an indigo factory of his own at Mudnabutty, where he hoped both to obtain a maintenance,
and to have great opportunities of teaching the natives in his employment.

