 The Bretons were, almost to a man, of the French party, having
been offended by the insolence and oppression of the English; and John de Montfort, after clinging
to the King of England as long as possible, was forced to make his peace at length with Charles.
Charles V. had nearly regained all that had been lost, when, in 1380 his death left the kingdom
to his son.

6. House of Burgundy.--Charles VI. was a boy of nine years old, motherless, and beset with
ambitious uncles. These uncles were Louis, Duke of Anjou, to whom Queen Joanna, the last of
the earlier Angevin line in Naples, bequeathed her rights; John, Duke of Berry, a weak time-server;
and Philip, the ablest and most honest of the three. His grandmother Joan, the wife of Philip
VI., had been heiress of the duchy and county of Burgundy, and these now became his inheritance,
giving him the richest part of France. By still better fortune he had married Margaret, the
only child of Louis, Count of Flanders. Flanders contained the great cloth-manufacturing towns
of Europe--Ghent, Bruges, Ypres, etc., all wealthy and independent, and much inclined to close
alliance with England, whence they obtained their wool, while their counts were equally devoted
to France. Just as Count Louis II. had, for his lawless rapacity, been driven out of Ghent
by Jacob van Arteveldt, so his son, Louis III., was expelled by Philip van Arteveldt, son to
Jacob. Charles had been disgusted by Louis's coarse violence, and would not help him; but after
the old king's death, Philip of Burgundy used his influence in the council to conduct the whole
power of France to Flanders, where Arteveldt was defeated and trodden to death in the battle
of Rosbecque, in 1382. On the count's death, Philip succeeded him as Count of Flanders in right
of his wife; and thus was laid the foundation of the powerful and wealthy house of Burgundy,
which for four generations almost overshadowed the crown of France.

7. Insanity of Charles VI.--The Constable, Clisson, was much hated by the Duke of Brittany,
and an attack which was made on him in the streets of Paris was clearly traced to Montfort.
The young king, who was much attached to Clisson, set forth to exact punishment. On his way,
a madman rushed out of a forest and called out, "King, you are betrayed!" Charles was much
frightened, and further seems to have had a sunstroke, for he at once became insane. He recovered
for a time; but at Christmas, while he and five others were dancing, disguised as wild men,
their garments of pitched flax caught fire. Four were burnt, and the shock brought back the
king's madness. He became subject to fits of insanity of longer or shorter duration, and in
their intervals he seems to have been almost imbecile. No provision had then been made for
the contingency of a mad king. The condition of the country became worse than ever, and power
was grasped at by whoever could obtain it. Of the king's three uncles, the Duke of Anjou and
his sons were generally engrossed by a vain struggle to obtain Naples; the Duke of Berry was
dull and weak; and the chief struggle for influence was between Philip of Burgundy and his
son, John the Fearless, on the one hand, and on the other the king's wife, Isabel of Bavaria,
and his brother Louis, Duke of Orleans, who was suspected of being her lover; while the unhappy
king and his little children were left in a wretched state, often scarcely provided with clothes
or food.

8. Burgundians and Armagnacs.--Matters grew worse after the death of Duke Philip in 1404; and
in 1407, just after a seeming reconciliation, the Duke of Orleans was murdered in the streets
of Paris by servants of John the Fearless. Louis of Orleans had been a vain, foolish man, heedless
of all save his own pleasure, but his death increased the misery of France through the long
and deadly struggle for vengeance that followed. The king was helpless, and the children of
the Duke of Orleans were young; but their cause was taken up by a Gascon noble, Bernard, Count
of Armagnac, whose name the party took. The Duke of Burgundy was always popular in Paris, where
the people, led by the Guild of Butchers, were so devoted to him that he ventured to have a
sermon preached at the university, justifying the murder. There was again a feeble attempt
at reform made by the burghers; but, as before, the more violent and lawless were guilty of
such excesses that the opposite party were called in to put them down. The Armagnacs were admitted
into Paris, and took a terrible vengeance on the Butchers and on all adherents of Burgundy,
in the name of the Dauphin Louis, the king's eldest son, a weak, dissipated youth, who was
entirely led by the Count of Armagnac.

9. Invasion of Henry V.--All this time the war with England had smouldered on, only broken
by brief truces; and when France was in this wretched state Henry V. renewed the claim of Edward
III., and in 1415 landed before Harfleur. After delaying till he had taken the city, the dauphin
called together the whole nobility of the kingdom, and advanced against Henry, who, like Edward
III., had been obliged to leave Normandy and march towards Calais in search of supplies. The
armies met at Agincourt, where, though the French greatly outnumbered the English, the skill
of Henry and the folly and confusion of the dauphin's army led to a total defeat, and the captivity
of half the chief men in France of the Armagnac party--among them the young Duke of Orleans.
It was Henry V.'s policy to treat France, not as a conquest, but as an inheritance; and he
therefore refused to let these captives be ransomed till he should have reduced the country
to obedience, while he treated all the places that submitted to him with great kindness. The
Duke of Burgundy held aloof from the contest, and the Armagnacs, who ruled in Paris, were too
weak or too careless to send aid to Rouen, which was taken by Henry after a long siege. The
Dauphin Louis died in 1417; his next brother, John, who was more inclined to Burgundy, did
not survive him a year; and the third brother, Charles, a mere boy, was in the hands of the
Armagnacs. In 1418 their reckless misuse of power provoked the citizens of Paris into letting
in the Burgundians, when an unspeakably horrible massacre took place. Bernard of Armagnac himself
was killed; his naked corpse, scored with his red cross, was dragged about the streets; and
men, women, and even infants of his party were slaughtered pitilessly. Tanneguy Duchatel, one
of his partisans, carried off the dauphin; but the queen, weary of Armagnac insolence, had
joined the Burgundian party.

10. Treaty of Troyes.--Meanwhile Henry V. continued to advance, and John of Burgundy felt the
need of joining the whole strength of France against him, and made overtures to the dauphin.
Duchatel, either fearing to be overshadowed by his power, or else in revenge for Orleans and
Armagnac, no sooner saw that a reconciliation was likely to take place, than he murdered John
the Fearless before the dauphin's eyes, at a conference on the bridge of Montereau-sur-Yonne
(1419). John's wound was said to be the hole which let the English into France. His son Philip,
the new Duke of Burgundy, viewing the dauphin as guilty of his death, went over with all his
forces to Henry V., taking with him the queen and the poor helpless king. At the treaty of
Troyes, in 1420, Henry was declared regent, and heir of the kingdom, at the same time as he
received the hand of Catherine, daughter of Charles VI. This gave him Paris and all the chief
cities in northern France; but the Armagnacs held the south, with the Dauphin Charles at their
head. Charles was declared an outlaw by his father's court, but he was in truth the leader
of what had become the national and patriotic cause. During this time, after a long struggle
and schism, the Pope again returned to Rome.

11. The Maid of Orleans.--When Henry V. died in 1422, and the unhappy Charles a few weeks later,
the infant Henry VI. was proclaimed King of France as well as of England, at both Paris and
London, while Charles VII. was only proclaimed at Bourges, and a few other places in the south.
Charles was of a slow, sluggish nature, and the men around him were selfish and pleasure-loving
intriguers, who kept aloof all the bolder spirits from him. The brother of Henry V., John,
Duke of Bedford, ruled all the country north of the Loire, with Rouen as his head-quarters.
For seven years little was done; but in 1429 he caused Orleans to be besieged. The city held
out bravely, all France looked on anxiously, and a young peasant girl, named Joan d'Arc, believed
herself called by voices from the saints to rescue the city, and lead the king to his coronation
at Rheims. With difficulty she obtained a hearing of the king, and was allowed to proceed to
Orleans. Leading the army with a consecrated sword, which she never stained with blood, she
filled the French with confidence, the English with fear as of a witch, and thus she gained
the day wherever she appeared. Orleans was saved, and she then conducted Charles VII. to Rheims,
and stood beside his throne when he was crowned. Then she said her work was done, and would
have returned home; but, though the wretched king and his court never appreciated her, they
thought her useful with the soldiers, and would not let her leave them. She had lost her heart
and hope, and the men began to be angered at her for putting down all vice and foul language.
The captains were envious of her; and at last, when she had led a sally out of the besieged
town of Compiègne, the gates were shut, and she was made prisoner by a Burgundian, John of
Luxembourg. The Burgundians hated her even more than the English. The inquisitor was of their
party, and a court was held at Rouen, which condemned her to die as a witch. Bedford consented,
but left the city before the execution. Her own king made no effort to save her, though, many
years later, he caused enquiries to be made, established her innocence, ennobled her family,
and freed her village from taxation.

12. Recovery of France (1434--1450).--But though Joan was gone, her work lasted. The Constable,
Artur of Richmond, the Count of Dunois, and other brave leaders, continued to attack the English.
After seventeen years' vengeance for his father's death, the Duke of Burgundy made his peace
with Charles by a treaty at Arras, on condition of paying no more homage, in 1434. Bedford
died soon after, and there were nothing but disputes among the English. Paris opened its gates
to the king, and Charles, almost in spite of himself, was restored. An able merchant, named
Jacques Cœur, lent him money which equipped his men for the recovery of Normandy, and he himself,
waking into activity, took Rouen and the other cities on the coast.

13. Conquest of Aquitaine (1450).--By these successes Charles had recovered all, save Calais,
that Henry V. or Edward III. had taken from France. But he was now able to do more. The one
province of the south which the French kings had never been able to win was Guienne, the duchy
on the river Garonne. Guienne had been a part of Eleanor's inheritance, and passed through
her to the English kings; but though they had lost all else, the hatred of its inhabitants
to the French enabled them to retain this, and Guienne had never yet passed under French rule.
It was wrested, however, from Eleanor's descendants in this flood-tide of conquest. Bordeaux
held out as long as it could, but Henry VI. could send no aid, and it was forced to yield.
Two years later, brave old Lord Talbot led 5000 men to recover the duchy, and was gladly welcomed;
but he was slain in the battle of Castillon, fighting like a lion. His two sons fell beside
him, and his army was broken. Bordeaux again surrendered, and the French kings at last found
themselves master of the great fief of the south. Calais was, at the close of the great Hundred
Years' War, the only possession left to England south of the Channel.

14. The Standing Army (1452).--As at the end of the first act in the Hundred Years' War, the
great difficulty in time of peace was the presence of the bands of free companions, or mercenary
soldiers, who, when war and plunder failed them, lived by violence and robbery of the peasants.
Charles VII., who had awakened into vigour, thereupon took into regular pay all who would submit
to discipline, and the rest were led off on two futile expeditions into Switzerland and Germany,
and there left to their fate. The princes and nobles were at first so much disgusted at the
regulations which bound the soldiery to respect the magistracy, that they raised a rebellion,
which was fostered by the Dauphin Louis, who was ready to do anything that could annoy his
father. But he was soon detached from them; the Duke of Burgundy would not assist them, and
the league fell to pieces. Charles VII. by thus retaining companies of hired troops in his
pay laid the foundation of the first standing army in Europe, and enabled the monarchy to tread
down the feudal force of the nobles. His government was firm and wise; and with his reign began
better times for France. But it was long before it recovered from the miseries of the long
strife. The war had kept back much of progress. There had been grievous havoc of buildings
in the north and centre of France; much lawlessness and cruelty prevailed; and yet there was
a certain advance in learning, and much love of romance and the theory of chivalry. Pages of
noble birth were bred up in castles to be first squires and then knights. There was immense
formality and stateliness, the order of precedence was most minute, and pomp and display were
wonderful. Strange alternations took place. One month the streets of Paris would be a scene
of horrible famine, where hungry dogs, and even wolves, put an end to the miseries of starving,
homeless children of slaughtered parents; another, the people would be gazing at royal banquets,
lasting a whole day, with allegorical "subtleties" of jelly on the table, and pageants coming
between the courses, where all the Virtues harangued in turn, or where knights delivered maidens
from giants and "salvage men." In the south there was less misery and more progress. Jacques
Cœur's house at Bourges is still a marvel of household architecture; and René, Duke of Anjou
and Count of Provence, was an excellent painter on glass, and also a poet.

CHAPTER III.

THE STRUGGLE WITH BURGUNDY.

1. Power of Burgundy.--All the troubles of France, for the last 80 years, had gone to increase
the strength of the Dukes of Burgundy. The county and duchy, of which Dijon was the capital,
lay in the most fertile district of France, and had, as we have seen, been conferred on Philip
the Bold. His marriage had given to him Flanders, with a gallant nobility, and with the chief
manufacturing cities of Northern Europe. Philip's son, John the Fearless, had married a lady
who ultimately brought into the family the great imperial counties of Holland and Zealand;
and her son, Duke Philip the Good, by purchase or inheritance, obtained possession of all the
adjoining little fiefs forming the country called the Netherlands, some belonging to the Empire,
some to France. Philip had turned the scale in the struggle between England and France, and,
as his reward, had won the cities on the Somme. He had thus become the richest and most powerful
prince in Europe, and seemed on the point of founding a middle state lying between France and
Germany, his weak point being that the imperial fiefs in Lorraine and Elsass lay between his
dukedom of Burgundy and his counties in the Netherlands. No European court equalled in splendour
that of Philip. The great cities of Ghent, Bruges, Antwerp, and the rest, though full of fierce
and resolute men, paid him dues enough to make him the richest of princes, and the Flemish
knights were among the boldest in Europe. All the arts of life, above all painting and domestic
architecture, nourished at Brussels; and nowhere were troops so well equipped, burghers more
prosperous, learning more widespread, than in his domains. Here, too, were the most ceremonious
courtesy, the most splendid banquets, and the most wonderful display of jewels, plate, and
cloth-of-gold. Charles VII., a clever though a cold-hearted, indolent man, let Philip alone,
already seeing how the game would go for the future; for when the dauphin had quarrelled with
the reigning favourite, and was kindly received on his flight to Burgundy, the old king sneered,
saying that the duke was fostering the fox who would steal his chickens.

2. Louis XI.'s Policy.--Louis XI. succeeded his father Charles in 1461. He was a man of great
skill and craft, with an iron will, and subtle though pitiless nature, who knew in what the
greatness of a king consisted, and worked out his ends mercilessly and unscrupulously. The
old feudal dukes and counts had all passed away, except the Duke of Brittany; but the Dukes
of Orleans, Burgundy, and Anjou held princely appanages, and there was a turbulent nobility
who had grown up during the wars, foreign and civil, and been encouraged by the favouritism
of Charles VI. All these, feeling that Louis was their natural foe, united against him in what
was called the "League of the Public Good," with his own brother, the Duke of Berry, and Count
Charles of Charolais, who was known as Charles the Bold, the son of Duke Philip of Burgundy,
at their head. Louis was actually defeated by Charles of Charolais in the battle of Montlhéry;
but he contrived so cleverly to break up the league, by promises to each member and by sowing
dissension among them, that he ended by becoming more powerful than before.

