From the Supernaturalism of New England, in the Democratic Review for 1843.

IN this life of ours, so full of mystery, so hung about with wonders, so written over with
dark riddles, where even the lights held by prophets and inspired ones only serve to disclose
the solemn portals of a future state of being, leaving all beyond in shadow, perhaps the darkest
and most difficult problem which presents itself is that of the origin of evil,--the source
whence flow the black and bitter waters of sin and suffering and discord,--the wrong which
all men see in others and feel in themselves,--the unmistakable facts of human depravity and
misery.  A superficial philosophy may attempt to refer all these dark phenomena of man's existence
to his own passions, circumstances, and will; but the thoughtful observer cannot rest satisfied
with secondary causes.  The grossest materialism, at times, reveals something of that latent
dread of an invisible and spiritual influence which is inseparable from our nature.  Like Eliphaz
the Temanite, it is conscious of a spirit passing before its face, the form whereof is not
discerned.

It is indeed true that our modern divines and theologians, as if to atone for the too easy
credulity of their order formerly, have unceremoniously consigned the old beliefs of Satanic
agency, demoniacal possession, and witchcraft, to Milton's receptacle of exploded follies and
detected impostures,

              "Over the backside of the world far off,
               Into a limbo broad and large, and called
               The paradise of fools,"--

that indeed, out of their peculiar province, and apart from the routine of their vocation,
they have become the most thorough sceptics and unbelievers among us.  Yet it must be owned
that, if they have not the marvellous themselves, they are the cause of it in others.  In certain
states of mind, the very sight of a clergyman in his sombre professional garb is sufficient
to awaken all the wonderful within us.  Imagination goes wandering back to the subtle priesthood
of mysterious Egypt.  We think of Jannes and Jambres; of the Persian magi; dim oak groves,
with Druid altars, and priests, and victims, rise before us.  For what is the priest even of
our New England but a living testimony to the truth of the supernatural and the reality of
the unseen,--a man of mystery, walking in the shadow of the ideal world,--by profession an
expounder of spiritual wonders?  Laugh he may at the old tales of astrology and witchcraft
and demoniacal possession; but does he not believe and bear testimony to his faith in the reality
of that dark essence which Scripture more than hints at, which has modified more or less all
the religious systems and speculations of the heathen world,--the Ahriman of the Parsee, the
Typhon of the Egyptian, the Pluto of the Roman mythology, the Devil of Jew, Christian, and
Mussulman, the Machinito of the Indian,--evil in the universe of goodness, darkness in the
light of divine intelligence,--in itself the great and crowning mystery from which by no unnatural
process of imagination may be deduced everything which our forefathers believed of the spiritual
world and supernatural agency?  That fearful being with his tributaries and agents,--"the Devil
and his angels,"--how awfully he rises before us in the brief outline limning of the sacred
writers!  How he glooms, "in shape and gesture proudly eminent," on the immortal canvas of
Milton and Dante!  What a note of horror does his name throw into the sweet Sabbath psalmody
of our churches.  What strange, dark fancies are connected with the very language of common-law
indictments, when grand juries find under oath that the offence complained of has been committed
"at the instigation of the Devil"!

How hardly effaced are the impressions of childhood!  Even at this day, at the mention of the
evil angel, an image rises before me like that with which I used especially to horrify myself
in an old copy of Pilgrim's Progress.  Horned, hoofed, scaly, and fire-breathing, his caudal
extremity twisted tight with rage, I remember him, illustrating the tremendous encounter of
Christian in the valley where "Apollyon straddled over the whole breadth of the way."  There
was another print of the enemy which made no slight impression upon me.  It was the frontispiece
of an old, smoked, snuff-stained pamphlet, the property of an elderly lady, (who had a fine
collection of similar wonders, wherewith she was kind enough to edify her young visitors,)
containing a solemn account of the fate of a wicked dancing-party in New Jersey, whose irreverent
declaration, that they would have a fiddler if they had to send to the lower regions after
him, called up the fiend himself, who forthwith commenced playing, while the company danced
to the music incessantly, without the power to suspend their exercise, until their feet and
legs were worn off to the knees!  The rude wood-cut represented the demon fiddler and his agonized
companions literally stumping it up and down in "cotillons, jigs, strathspeys, and reels."
He would have answered very well to the description of the infernal piper in Tam O'Shanter.

To this popular notion of the impersonation of the principle of evil we are doubtless indebted
for the whole dark legacy of witchcraft and possession.  Failing in our efforts to solve the
problem of the origin of evil, we fall back upon the idea of a malignant being,--the antagonism
of good.  Of this mysterious and dreadful personification we find ourselves constrained to
speak with a degree of that awe and reverence which are always associated with undefined power
and the ability to harm.  "The Devil," says an old writer, "is a dignity, though his glory
be somewhat faded and wan, and is to be spoken of accordingly."

The evil principle of Zoroaster was from eternity self-created and existent, and some of the
early Christian sects held the same opinion. The gospel, however, affords no countenance to
this notion of a divided sovereignty of the universe.  The Divine Teacher, it is true, in discoursing
of evil, made use of the language prevalent in His time, and which was adapted to the gross
conceptions of His Jewish bearers; but He nowhere presents the embodiment of sin as an antagonism
to the absolute power and perfect goodness of God, of whom, and through whom, and to whom are
all things.  Pure himself, He can create nothing impure.  Evil, therefore, has no eternity
in the past.  The fact of its present actual existence is indeed strongly stated; and it is
not given us to understand the secret of that divine alchemy whereby pain, and sin, and discord
become the means to beneficent ends worthy of the revealed attributes of the Infinite Parent.
Unsolved by human reason or philosophy, the dark mystery remains to baffle the generations
of men; and only to the eye of humble and childlike faith can it ever be reconciled to the
purity, justice, and mercy of Him who is "light, and in whom is no darkness at all."

"Do you not believe in the Devil?" some one once asked the Non-conformist Robinson.  "I believe
in God," was the reply; "don't you?"

Henry of Nettesheim says "that it is unanimously maintained that devils do wander up and down
in the earth; but what they are, or how they are, ecclesiasticals have not clearly expounded."
Origen, in his Platonic speculations on this subject, supposed them to be spirits who, by repentance,
might be restored, that in the end all knees might be bowed to the Father of spirits, and He
become all in all.  Justin Martyr was of the opinion that many of them still hoped for their
salvation; and the Cabalists held that this hope of theirs was well founded.  One is irresistibly
reminded here of the closing verse of the Address to the Deil, by Burns:--

              "But fare ye weel, Auld Nickie ben!
               Gin ye wad take a thought and mend,
               Ye aiblins might--I dinna ken--
               Still has a stake
               I'm was to think upon yon den
               Fen for your sake."

The old schoolmen and fathers seem to agree that the Devil and his ministers have bodies in
some sort material, subject to passions and liable to injury and pain.  Origen has a curious
notion that any evil spirit who, in a contest with a human being, is defeated, loses from thenceforth
all his power of mischief, and may be compared to a wasp who has lost his sting.

"The Devil," said Samson Occum, the famous Indian preacher, in a discourse on temperance, "is
a gentleman, and never drinks." Nevertheless it is a remarkable fact, and worthy of the serious
consideration of all who "tarry long at the wine," that, in that state of the drunkard's malady
known as delirium tremens, the adversary, in some shape or other, is generally visible to the
sufferers, or at least, as Winslow says of the Powahs, "he appeareth more familiarly to them
than to others."  I recollect a statement made to me by a gentleman who has had bitter experience
of the evils of intemperance, and who is at this time devoting his fine talents to the cause
of philanthropy and mercy, as the editor of one of our best temperance journals, which left
a most vivid impression on my mind.  He had just returned from a sea-voyage; and, for the sake
of enjoying a debauch, unmolested by his friends, took up his abode in a rum-selling tavern
in a somewhat lonely location on the seaboard.  Here he drank for many days without stint,
keeping himself the whole time in a state of semi-intoxication.  One night he stood leaning
against a tree, looking listlessly and vacantly out upon the ocean; the waves breaking on the
beach, and the white sails of passing vessels vaguely impressing him like the pictures of a
dream.  He was startled by a voice whispering hoarsely in his ear, "You have murdered a man;
the officers of justice are after you; you must fly for your life!"  Every syllable was pronounced
slowly and separately; and there was something in the hoarse, gasping sound of the whisper
which was indescribably dreadful.  He looked around him, and seeing nothing but the clear moonlight
on the grass, became partially sensible that he was the victim of illusion, and a sudden fear
of insanity thrilled him with a momentary horror.  Rallying himself, he returned to the tavern,
drank another glass of brandy, and retired to his chamber.  He had scarcely lain his head on
the pillow when he heard that hoarse, low, but terribly distinct whisper, repeating the same
words.  He describes his sensations at this time as inconceivably fearful.  Reason was struggling
with insanity; but amidst the confusion and mad disorder one terrible thought evolved itself.
Had he not, in a moment of mad frenzy of which his memory made no record, actually murdered
some one?  And was not this a warning from Heaven? Leaving his bed and opening his door, he
heard the words again repeated, with the addition, in a tone of intense earnestness, "Follow
me!"  He walked forward in the direction of the sound, through a long entry, to the head of
the staircase, where he paused for a moment, when again he heard the whisper, half-way down
the stairs, "Follow me!"

Trembling with terror, he passed down two flights of stairs, and found himself treading on
the cold brick floor of a large room in the basement, or cellar, where he had never been before.
The voice still beckoned him onward; and, groping after it, his hand touched an upright post,
against which he leaned for a moment.  He heard it again, apparently only two or three yards
in front of him "You have murdered a man; the officers are close behind you; follow me!"  Putting
one foot forward while his hand still grasped the post, it fell upon empty air, and he with
difficulty recovered himself.  Stooping down and feeling with his hands, he found himself on
the very edge of a large uncovered cistern, or tank, filled nearly to the top with water. 
The sudden shock of this discovery broke the horrible enchantment.  The whisperer was silent.
He believed, at the time, that he had been the subject, and well-nigh the victim, of a diabolical
delusion; and he states that, even now, with the recollection of that strange whisper is always
associated a thought of the universal tempter.

