He did not come back over the hill, and past the Grays' cottage, for he was going to fetch
the child that evening; but he came home by the road, meeting many more of those gypsy vans
which had distracted his pupil's attention, and looking with kindliness on the swarthy men
and bronze dark-eyed women, for the sake of little Zoe, who had been so often called the gypsy
baby.

When he reached home he found the room prepared with all the care Jane Sands could lavish.
He had thought when he went in that morning that it was just as Edith had left it, and all
in the most perfect order; but now the room was a bower of daintiness and cleanliness, and
all Edith's old treasures had been set out in the very order she used to arrange them--why!
even her brush and comb were laid ready on the dressing-table, and a pair of slippers by the
bedside, and a small bunch of autumn anemones and Czar violets was placed in a little glass
beside her books.  He smiled, but with tears in his eyes, as he saw all these loving preparations.

'Edith can hardly be here to-night,' he said to himself, 'but Zoe will.'  And he smoothed the
pillow of the cot close to the bedside, and drew the curtain more closely over its head.

He found his tea set ready for him when he came down, but Jane Sands had gone out, and he was
rather glad of it, as she had watched him that morning with an eager expectant eye, and he
did not know what to say to her.  It would be easier when he brought the baby and actually
put it into her arms.

The sun had set when he had finished tea, a blaze of splendour settling down into dull purple
and dead orange, leaving a stripe of pale-green sky over the horizon, flecked with a few soft
brown clouds tinged with red.

But envious night hastened to cover up and deaden the colours of the sky, and the almost equally
gorgeous tints of tree and hedge; and, by the time Mr Robins reached the Grays' cottage, darkness
had settled down as deep as on that evening four months ago, when he carried the baby and left
it there.

Now, as then, the cottage door was open, and Mrs Gray sat at work with the candle close to
her elbow, every now and then giving a long sniff or a sigh, that made the tallow candle flicker
and tremble.  He had almost forgotten her husband's accident in his absorption in the baby;
but these sniffs recalled it to his mind, and he thought he would give them a helping hand
while Gray was in the hospital.

'She has been kind to my little Zoe,' he thought, 'and I will not forget it in a hurry.  She
shall come and see the child whenever she likes; and Edith will be good to her, for she has
been like a mother to the baby all these months.'

Close by where Mrs Gray sat he could see the foot of the old cradle and the rocker within reach
of the woman's foot; but Zoe must be asleep, for there was no rocking necessary, and Mrs Gray
did not turn from her work to look at the child, though she stopped from time to time to wipe
her eyes on her apron.

'She is taken up with her husband,' he said to himself; 'it is as well that I am going to take
the child away, as she will have no thought to give her now.'

And then he went into the cottage, with a tap on the open door to announce his presence.

'Good evening, Mrs Gray,' he said in a subdued voice, so as not to wake the baby.  But he might
have spared himself this precaution, for the next glance showed him that the cradle was empty.

'Bless you, Mr Robins,' the woman said, 'you give me quite a start, coming in so quiet like.
But, there!  I 'm all of a tremble, the leastest thing do terrify me. Since they were last simply,
Officialdom been overcome; the MARKISS out, Mr. Gramme. in, and all
that intend or portends.

Not many present, but the MARKISS in his grave smile in unmoved emotion, here as Aristocrat ARTHUR
did in Company when the end go. What's the matter?  It's not the scarlatina?  Not'----

'Bless you!' she said, 'why I thought you'd a-knowed.  It ain't the scarlatina; the baby was
as well and bonnie as ever when she went.  She 've agone! her mother come and fetch her this
very day, and took her right off.  Ay! but she were pleased to see how the little thing had
got on, and she said as she 'd never forget my kindness, and how she'd bring her to see me
whenever she come this way.  But, there!  I do miss her terrible.  Why, it's 'most worse than
the master himself.'

The organist hardly listened to what she was saying after the fact of the mother having come
and fetched her away.  Edith had come for her baby!  How had she known?  Why had she done it
to-day?  Could Jane have let her know?  And had she come so quickly to take the child herself
to her old home?  His first impulse was to turn and hasten home; perhaps Edith and Zoe were
there already, and would find him absent.  But he could not go without a word to Mrs Gray,
who was wiping her eyes in her apron and unconsciously rocking the empty cradle.

'You will often see her,' he said consolingly; 'she will not be very far away.'

'Oh, I don't know about that; them gypsies go all over the place, up and down the country,
and they don't always come back for the fairs; though she says as they don't often miss Smithurst.'

'Gypsies?' he said puzzled.

'Ay, the mother 's a gypsy sure enough, and I've said it all along, and the child's the very
image of her; there wasn't no doubt, when one saw the two together, as they was mother and child.'

'Are you sure she was a gypsy?'  He had often said in fun that Edith was a regular little gypsy,
but he would never have thought that any one could really mistake her for one; and besides,
Mrs Gray must have known Edith well enough at any rate by sight in the old days; and changed
as she was, it was not beyond all recognition.

'Oh, there wasn't no mistaking, and the van as she belonged to waited just outside the village,
for I went down along with her and seed it, painted yeller with red wheels.  I knowed Zoe was
gypsy born, for she'd one of them charms round her neck as I didn't meddle with, for they do
say as there's a deal of power in them things, and that gypsies can't be drownded or ketch
fevers and things as long as they keeps 'em.'

Mr Robins sat down in the chair opposite Mrs Gray; an odd, cold sort of apprehension was stealing
over him, and the pleasant dream of home and Edith and Zoe, in which he had been living through
the day, was fading away with every word the woman said.

'The funny part of it were that she vowed and declared as she put the child at your door, and
never came this way at all; leastways, from what she said it must abeen your house, for she
said it was hard by the church and had a thick hedge, and that there was a kind sorter body
as she see there in the morning, as must abeen Mrs Sands, and nobody else from her account.
She said she was in a heap of trouble just then, her husband ill and a deal more, and she was
pretty nigh at her wits' end, and that, without thinking twice what she were about, she wropt
the baby up and laid it close agin the door of the house where she'd seen the kind-looking
body.  She would have it as it was there, say what I would; but, maybe, poor soul, she were
mazed, and hardly knew where she were.

'She went to your house to-day, and Mrs Sands were quite put out with her, being busy too,
and expecting company, and thought it were just her impidence; but there!  I knows what trouble
is, and how it just mazes a body, for I could no more tell where I went nor what I did yesterday
than that table there.  And another queer thing is as she didn't know nothing about the name,
and neither she nor her husband can't read or write noways, so she couldn't have wrote it down,
and she 'd never heard tell of such a name as Zoe, and didn't like it neither. She'd always
ameant it to be Rachel, as had been her mother's name before her, and her grandmother's too.'

'Are you quite certain she was the mother?'

'Certain?  Why, you 'd only to see the two together to be sure of it. I'd not have let her
go, not were it ever so, if it hadn't been as clear as daylight; and just now too, when I seems
to want her for a bit of comfort.'  And here Mrs Gray relapsed into her apron.

Mr Robins sat for a minute looking at her in silence, and then got up, and without a word went
out into the dark night, mechanically taking the way to his house, and then turning on to the
high-road to Smithurst, tramping along through the mud and dead leaves with a dull, heavy persistence.

Anything was better than going back to the empty silence of his house and Jane Sands' expectant
face, and the pretty, white-curtained room with the cot all ready for little Zoe, who was already
miles away along that dark road before him, sleeping, perhaps, in some dirty gypsy van put
up on some bit of waste land by the roadside, or, perhaps, surrounded by the noise and glare
of the fair with its shows and roundabouts.  His little Zoe! he could not possibly have been
so utterly deceived all through; the baby who had lain on his bed, whose little face he had
felt as he carried her up to the Grays' cottage in the dark, whom he had seen day after day,
and never failed to notice the likeness, growing stronger with the child's growth.  Was it
all a delusion? all the foolish fancy of a fond, old man?  He tried hard to believe that it
was impossible that he could have been so deceived, and yet from the very first he felt that
it was so, and that the love that had been growing in his heart all these months had been lavished
on a gypsy baby whose face most likely he should never see again.

And all his plans for the future, his dreams of reparation, of tender reconciliation with Edith,
and of happy, peaceful days that would obliterate the memory of past trouble and alienation,
they had all vanished with the gypsy baby; life was as empty as the cradle by Mrs Gray's side.

Where was he to find his daughter?  Where had she wandered that night when the pitiless rain
fell and the sullen wind moaned?  Was that the last he should ever see of her, with the white,
wan, pleading face under the yew-tree?  And would that despairing voice, saying 'Father!' haunt
his ears till his dying day?  And would the wailing cry that followed him as he went to his
house that night be the only thing he should ever know of his grandchild, the real little Zoe
whom he had rejected?

He was several miles away along the Smithurst road when he first realised what he was doing,
brought to the consciousness, perhaps, by the fact of being weary and footsore and wet through
from a fine rain that had begun falling soon after he left the village.  It must be getting
late too; many of the cottages he passed showed no light from the windows, the inmates most
likely being in bed.

Painfully and wearily he toiled back to Downside; he seemed to have no spirit left to contend
against even such trifling things as mud and inequalities in the road, and when a bramble straying
from the hedge caught his coat and tore it, he could almost have cried in feeble vexation of
spirit.  Downside street was all dark and quiet, but from the organist's house a light shone
out from the open door and down the garden path, making a patch of light on the wet road. 

He might mean he might knock for papers that it is so proposed turn
that he stopped of hoardings-- have you anything to do in what do
it Possible Moment.

Managing
Baby what said presiding for staff. Enter Possible Customer.
