A flagman hurried past.  Kate courageously pointed: "Are those the Rocky Mountains, please?"
He halted only to look at her in astonishment.  "Yes'm."   But she was bound he should not
escape: "How far are they?" she shot after him.  He looked back startled: "'Bout a hundred
miles," he snapped.  Plainly there was no enthusiasm among the train crew over mountains.

When she was forced, reluctant, back into the sleeper, she announced joyfully to her berth
neighbors that the Rocky Mountains were in sight. One regarded her stupidly, another coldly.
Across the aisle the old lady playing solitaire did not even look up.  Kate subsided; but dull
apathy could not rob her of that first wonderful vision of the strange, far-off region, perhaps
to be her home.

Next day, from the car window it was all mountains--at least, everywhere on the horizon.  But
the train seemed to thread an illimitable desert--a poor exchange for the boundless plains,
Kate thought.  But she grew to love the very dust of the desert.

The train was due at Sleepy Cat in the late afternoon.  It met with delays and night had fallen
when Kate, after giving the porter too much money, left her car, and suitcase in hand struggled,
American fashion, up the long, dark platform toward the dimly lighted station.  Men and women
hastened here and there about her.  The changing crews moved briskly to and from the train.
There was abundance of activity, but none of it concerned Kate and her comfort.  And there
was no one, she feared, to meet her.

Reaching the station, she set down her suitcase without a tremor, and though she had never
been more alone, she never felt less lonely.  The eating-house gong beat violently for supper.
A woman dragging a little boy almost fell over Kate's suitcase but did not pause to receive
or tender apology.  Men looking almost solemn under broad, straight-brimmed hats moved in and
out of the station, but none of these saw Kate.  Only one man striding past looked at her.
He glared. And as he had but one eye, Kate deemed him, from his expression, a woman-hater.

Then a fat man under an immense hat, and wearing a very large ring on one hand, walked with
a dapper step out of the telegraph office.  He did see Kate.  He checked his pace, coughed
slightly and changed his course, as if to hold himself open to inquiry.  Kate without hesitation
turned to him and explained she was for Doubleday's ranch.  She asked whether he knew the men
from there and whether anyone was down.

John Lefever, for it was he whom she addressed, knew the men but he had seen no one; could
he do anything?

"I want very much to get out there tonight," said Kate.

"Jingo," exclaimed Lefever, "not tonight!"

"Tonight," returned Kate, looking out of dark eyes in pink and white appeal, "if I can possibly
make it."

Lefever caught up her suitcase and set it down beside the waiting-room door: "Stay right here
a minute," he said.

He walked toward the baggage-room and before he reached it, stopped a second large, heavy man,
Henry Sawdy.  Him he held in confab; Sawdy looking meantime quite unabashed toward the distant
Kate.  In the light streaming from the station windows her slender and slightly shrinking figure
suggested young womanhood and her delicately fashioned features, half-hidden under her hat,
pleasingly confirmed his impression of it. Kate, conscious of inspection, could only pretend
not to see him.  And the sole impression she could snatch in the light and shadow of the redoubtable
Sawdy, was narrowed to a pair of sweeping mustaches and a stern-looking hat.  Lefever returned,
his companion sauntering along after.  Kate explained that she had telegraphed.

At that moment an odd-looking man, with a rapid, rolling, right and left gait, ambled by and
caught Kate's eye.  Instead of the formidable Stetson hat mostly in evidence, this man wore
a baseball cap--of the sort usually given away with popular brands of flour--its peak cocked
to its own apparent surprise over one ear.  The man had sharp eyes and a long nose for news
and proved it by halting within earshot of the conversation carried on between Kate and the
two men.  He looked so queer, Kate wanted to laugh, but she was too far from home to dare.
He presently put his head conveniently in between Sawdy and Lefever and offered some news of
his own: "There's been a big electric storm in the up country, Sawdy; the telephones are on
the bum."

"How's she going to get to Doubleday's tonight, McAlpin?" asked Sawdy abruptly of the newcomer.
McAlpin never, under any pressure, answered a question directly.  Hence everything had to be
explained to him all over again, he looking meantime more or less furtively at Kate.  But he
found out, despite his seeming stupidity, a lot that it would have taken the big men hours
to learn.

"If you don't want to take a rig and driver," announced McAlpin, after all had been canvassed,
"there's the stage for the fort; they had to wait for the mail.  Bill Bradley is on tonight.
I'm thinkin' he'll set y' over from the ford--it's only a matter o' two or three miles."

"Are there any other passengers?" asked Kate doubtfully.

"Belle Shockley for the Reservation," answered McAlpin, promptly, "if--she ain't changed her
mind, it bein' so late."

Sawdy put a brusque end to this uncertainty: "She's down there at the Mountain House waitin'--seen
her myself not ten minutes ago."

Scurrying away, McAlpin came back in a jiffy with the driver, Bradley. Thin, bent and grizzled
though he was, Kate thought she saw under the broad but shabby hat and behind the curtain of
scraggly beard and deep wrinkles dependable eyes and felt reassured.

"How far is it to the ranch?" she asked of the queer-looking Bradley.

"Long ways, the way you go, ain't it, Bill?" McAlpin turned to the old driver for confirmation.

"'Bout fourteen mile," answered Bradley, "to the ford."

"What time should I get there?" asked Kate again.

Bradley stood pat.

"What time'll she get there, Bill?" demanded Lefever.

"Twelve o'clock," hazarded Bradley tersely.  "Or," he added, "I'll stop when I pass the ranch
'n' tell 'em to send a rig down in the mornin'."

"That would take you out of your way," Kate objected.

"Not a great ways."

A man that would go to this trouble in the middle of the night for someone he had never seen
before, Kate deemed safe to trust.  "No," she said, "I'll go with you, if I may."

The way in which she spoke, the sweetness and simplicity of her words, moved Sawdy and Lefever,
the first a widower and the second a bachelor, and even stirred McAlpin, a married man.  But
they had no particular effect on Bradley.  The blandishments of young womanhood were past his
time of day.

With Lefever carrying the suitcase and nearly everybody talking at once, the party walked around
to the rear door of the baggage-room.

The stage had been backed up, a hostler in the driver's seat, and the mail and express were
being loaded.  Sawdy volunteered to save time by fetching Belle Shockley from the hotel, and
while McAlpin and Lefever inspected and discussed the horses--for the condition of which McAlpin,
as foreman of Kitchen's barn, was responsible--Kate stood, listener and onlooker.  Everything
was new and interesting.  Four horses champed impatiently under the arc-light swinging in the
street, and looked quite fit.  But the stage itself was a shock to her idea of a Western stage.
Instead of the old-fashioned swinging coach body, such as she had wondered at in circus spectacles,
she saw a very substantial, shabby-looking democrat wagon with a top, and with side curtains.
The curtains were rolled up.  But the oddest thing to Kate was that wherever a particle could
lodge, the whole stage was covered with a ghostly, grayish-white dust.  While the loading went
on, Sawdy arrived with the second passenger, Belle Shockley.  She had, fortunately for Kate's
apprehensions, not changed her mind.

Belle herself was something of an added shock.  She wore a long rubber coat, in which the rubber
was not in the least disguised.  Her hair was frizzed about her face, and a small, brimless
hat perched high, almost startled, on her head.  She was tall and angular, her features were
large and her eyes questioning.  Had she had Bradley's beard, she would have passed with Kate
for the stage driver.  She was formidable, but yet a woman; and she scrutinized the slender
whip of a girl before her with feminine suspicion.  Nor did she give Kate a chance to break
the ice of acquaintance before starting.

Under Lefever's chaperonage and with his gallant help, Kate took her seat where directed, just
behind the driver, and her new companion presently got up beside her.

The mail bags disposed of, Bradley climbed into place, gathered his lines, the hostler let
go the leads and the stage was off.  The horses, restive after their long wait, dashed down
the main street of the town, whirling Kate, all eyes and ears, past the glaring saloons and
darkened stores to the extreme west end of Sleepy Cat.  There, striking northward, the stage
headed smartly for the divide.

The night was clear, with the stars burning in the sky.  From the rigid silence of the driver
and his two passengers, it might have been thought that no one of them ever spoke.  To Kate,
who as an Eastern girl had never, it might be said, breathed pure air, the clear, high atmosphere
of the mountain night was like sparkling wine.  Her senses tingled with the strange stimulant.

To Belle, there was no novelty in any of this, and the strain of silence was correspondingly
greater.  It was she who gave in first:

"You from Medicine Bend?" she asked, as the four horses walked up a long hill.

"Pittsburgh," answered Kate.

"Pittsburgh!" echoed Belle, startled.  "Gee! some trip you've had."

Belle, encouraged, then confessed that a cyclone had given her her own first start West.  She
had been blown two blocks in one and had all of her hair pulled out of her head.

"They said I'd have no chance to get married without any hair," she continued, "so I got a
wig--never could find my own hair--and come West for a chance.  And they're here; if you're
looking for a husband you've come to the right place."

"I haven't the least idea of getting married," protested Kate.

"They'll be after you," declared Belle sententiously.

"Are you married?" ventured Kate.

"Not yet.  But they're coming.  I'm in no hurry."

She talked freely about her own affairs.  She had worked for Doubleday, for whose ranch Kate
was bound.  Doubleday had had a chain of eating houses on the line, as Belle termed the transcontinental
railroad. They had all been taken over except the one where she worked--at Sleepy Cat Junction--and
this would be taken soon, Belle thought.

"That's the trouble with Barb Doubleday," she went on.  "He's got too many irons in the fire--head
over heels in debt.  There's no money now-a-days in cattle, anyway.  What are you going up
to Doubleday's for?"

"He's my father."

"Your father?  Well!  I never open my mouth without I put my foot in it, anyway."

"I've never seen him," continued Kate.

Belle was all interest.  She confided to Kate that she was now on her way, for a visit, to
the Reservation where her cousin was teaching in an Indian school, and divided her time for
the next hour between getting all she could of Kate's story and telling all of her own.

On Kate's part there was no end of questions to ask, about country and customs and people.
When Belle could not answer, she appealed to Bradley, who, if taciturn, was at least patient.
Every time the conversation lulled and Kate looked out into the night, it seemed as if they
were drawing closer and closer to the stars, the dark desert still spreading in every direction
and the black mountain ridges continually receding.

CHAPTER II

THE CRAZY WOMAN

They had traveled a long time it seemed to Kate, and having climbed all the hills in the country,
were going down a moderate grade with the hind wheels sputtering unamiably at the brakes, when
Belle broke a long silence: "Where are we, Bill?" she demanded, familiarly.

"The Crazy Woman," Bradley answered briefly.  Kate did not understand, but by this time she
had learned in such circumstances to hold her tongue.

"He means the creek," explained Belle.  "It's way down there ahead of us."

Strain her eyes as she would, Kate could see only the blackness of the darkness ahead.

"'N' b' jing!" muttered Bradley, as Kate peered into nothingness, "she's whinin' t'night f'r fair."

Again for an instant Kate did not comprehend.  Then the leads were swung sharply by Bradley
to the left.  The stage rounded what Kate afterward frequently recognized as an overhanging
shoulder of rock on the road down to the creek, and a vague, dull roar swept up from below.

Bradley halted the horses, climbed down, and taking the lantern went forward on foot to investigate.

"Must have been a cloudburst in the mountains," remarked Belle, listening; and Kate was to
learn that a cloudless sky gives no assurance whatever for the passage of a mountain stream.

The lantern disappeared, to come into sight again farther down the trail, and while both women
talked, the faint light swung at intervals in and out of their vision as Bradley reconnoitered.
Kate was a little worried, but her companion sat quite unmoved, even when Bradley returned
and reported the creek "roarin'."

"That bein' the case," he muttered, "I'm thinkin' the Double-draw bridge has took up its timbers
and walked likewise."

The Double-draw bridge!  How well Kate was to know that name; but that night it seemed, like
everything else, only very queer.

"Bradley," protested Belle, now very much disturbed, "that can't be."

"We'll see," retorted Bradley, gathering his reins and releasing his brake as he spoke to the
horses.  "I don't guess myself there's much left o' that bridge."  Only the expletive he placed
before the last word revealed his own genuine annoyance and Kate prudently asked no further
questions.  Some instinct convinced her she was already a nuisance on the silent Bradley's
hands.  The ford--off the main road--was where he had purposed setting Kate over, as he expressed
it, to the ranch.  Double-draw bridge--on the road to the fort and Reservation--was two miles
above.

The horses climbed the long hill again and started on the road for the bridge.

"If the Double-draw is out," sighed Belle resignedly, "I reckon we're trapped."

For the first time now they could hear the hoofs of the two teams sinking into and pulling
out of mud.  It grew deeper as they descended the long grade toward the bridge and clouds obscured
the light of the stars.

With the horses stumbling on, the women watched for something to meet either sight or hearing,
but there was nothing until they again neared the creek.  Then the same vague roar rose on
the night and as they rimmed the bench above the creek a faint, ghastly light on the eastern
horizon betokened a rising moon.  Down the trail they stopped in darkness and Bradley again
clambered down from his box with the lantern to investigate.

"'Z fur 'z I c'n see," he reported when he came back, "th' bridge is all right, but mos'ly
under water."

"Can we get across?" Belle Shockley asked querulously.

Bradley answered with hesitation:  "Why--yes----"

"Oh, good!"

"And no."

"What does that mean?" snapped Belle.

"We can't get across tonight--we might in the mornin'."

Kate kept silence, but Belle was persistent.  "What are we going to do?" she demanded; "go
'way back to Sleepy Cat?"

"Not in a milyun years," returned Bradley, calmly.  "We're goin' to pull out t' one side 'n'
camp right here till daylight.  Ef I didn't have you wimmen on my hands, I might take a chanst
with the mail," he went on, drawing his horses carefully around to where he meant to camp.
"Me and the horses could make it, even 'f we lost the wagon.  But I w'dn't like the job of
huntin' for you folks in the Crazy Woman with a lantern--not tonight.  She's surely a-rip-roarin'.
Well; t'hell with her 'n' all creeks like her, say I," he wound up, chirruping kindly to his
uncomplaining beasts.

"You don't like creeks," suggested Belle.

"Dry creeks--yes.  Wouldn't care if I never seen another wet creek from now till kingdom come--Whoa,
Nellie!" he called to the off lead mare who was feeling the way for her companions back to
a safe spot for a halt.  "This is good, right here."

Belle showed her fellow-traveler how to lie down with some comfort on the leather seat, and
as they had one for each she gave Kate her choice.  Kate, to put Belle between her and any
man in front, took the back seat.  The side curtains were let down and with a mail sack supplied
by Bradley for a pillow, Kate, drawing her big coat over her, curled up for a rest.

The excitement of the journey had worn away.  The delay she was disposed to accept philosophically.
It took some time for Bradley to unhitch and dispose of the horses to his satisfaction, and
theirs, and his mumblings and the sound of their moving about and champing their bits fell
a long time on Kate's drowsy ears.  Belle went to sleep at once, and though sleep was the last
thing Kate expected to achieve, she did fall asleep--with the Crazy Woman singing wildly in
her ears.

She had hardly lost herself, it seemed, when Bradley roused his passengers.  The storm waters
were creeping up over the bench where they had camped and with much impatient sputtering, Bradley
hitched the pole team to the stage and, in his pet, retreated into the hills for assured safety.
Even the noise of the flood failed to follow them there and they disposed themselves once more
to rest.

How long she slept this time, Kate did not know, but she was awakened by voices.

The night had grown very cold and death itself could not have been more silent.  Yet at intervals
Kate heard the low converse of two voices; they were not far away and both were men's.

A panic seized her.  Her heart beat like the roll of a drum and then nearly stopped.  What
might happen now? she asked herself.  And what could she fear but the worst?  In the dead of
night--marooned in a wild country, with only a queer woman and two strange men.  Could it be
a plot? she asked herself.  In the fear that gripped her she could hardly breathe, and to think
was only to invite added agonies of apprehension. She sat quickly up, breathing hurriedly now
and her heart racing.  Then she heard the even breathing of her companion on the seat ahead.
To make sure it was she, Kate put her hand over and touched Belle's shoulder.  Reassured a
little, but ready to push aside the curtain and spring from the stage at the least alarm, Kate
listened painfully; the voices reached her ears again.

One was Bradley's--of that she felt sure; the other, deeper, more full, and with a curiously
even carrying quality through the silent night, she knew she had never heard before; but the
darkness, the solitude, the shock of strange surroundings, if nothing else, made it terrifying
to her.  Kate had never been reckoned a timid girl, but she listened dumb with fear.  Bradley
did most of the talking.  He was recounting, with occasional profanity, the mishaps of his
trip, beginning with the late train.

"Any passengers?" Kate heard the stranger ask.

"Two women--c'n y' beat it?  One of 'em a girl for Doubleday's."

"What can a girl be wanting at Doubleday's?"

