Our last sight was the cemetery (a burial place intended to accommodate 60,000 bodies,) and
we shall continue to remember it after we shall have forgotten the palaces.  It is a vast marble
collonaded corridor extending around a great unoccupied square of ground; its broad floor is
marble, and on every slab is an inscription--for every slab covers a corpse.  On either side,
as one walks down the middle of the passage, are monuments, tombs, and sculptured figures that
are exquisitely wrought and are full of grace and beauty.  They are new and snowy; every outline
is perfect, every feature guiltless of mutilation, flaw, or blemish; and therefore, to us these
far-reaching ranks of bewitching forms are a hundred fold more lovely than the damaged and
dingy statuary they have saved from the wreck of ancient art and set up in the galleries of
Paris for the worship of the world.

Well provided with cigars and other necessaries of life, we are now ready to take the cars
for Milan.

CHAPTER XVIII.

All day long we sped through a mountainous country whose peaks were bright with sunshine, whose
hillsides were dotted with pretty villas sitting in the midst of gardens and shrubbery, and
whose deep ravines were cool and shady and looked ever so inviting from where we and the birds
were winging our flight through the sultry upper air.

We had plenty of chilly tunnels wherein to check our perspiration, though.  We timed one of
them.  We were twenty minutes passing through it, going at the rate of thirty to thirty-five
miles an hour.

Beyond Alessandria we passed the battle-field of Marengo.

Toward dusk we drew near Milan and caught glimpses of the city and the blue mountain peaks
beyond.  But we were not caring for these things --they did not interest us in the least. 
We were in a fever of impatience; we were dying to see the renowned cathedral!  We watched--in
this direction and that--all around--everywhere.  We needed no one to point it out--we did
not wish any one to point it out--we would recognize it even in the desert of the great Sahara.

At last, a forest of graceful needles, shimmering in the amber sunlight, rose slowly above
the pygmy housetops, as one sometimes sees, in the far horizon, a gilded and pinnacled mass
of cloud lift itself above the waste of waves, at sea,--the Cathedral!  We knew it in a moment.

Half of that night, and all of the next day, this architectural autocrat was our sole object
of interest.

What a wonder it is!  So grand, so solemn, so vast!  And yet so delicate, so airy, so graceful!
A very world of solid weight, and yet it seems in the soft moonlight only a fairy delusion
of frost-work that might vanish with a breath!  How sharply its pinnacled angles and its wilderness
of spires were cut against the sky, and how richly their shadows fell upon its snowy roof!
It was a vision!--a miracle!--an anthem sung in stone, a poem wrought in marble!

Howsoever you look at the great cathedral, it is noble, it is beautiful! Wherever you stand
in Milan or within seven miles of Milan, it is visible and when it is visible, no other object
can chain your whole attention. Leave your eyes unfettered by your will but a single instant
and they will surely turn to seek it.  It is the first thing you look for when you rise in
the morning, and the last your lingering gaze rests upon at night.  Surely it must be the princeliest
creation that ever brain of man conceived.

At nine o'clock in the morning we went and stood before this marble colossus.  The central
one of its five great doors is bordered with a bas-relief of birds and fruits and beasts and
insects, which have been so ingeniously carved out of the marble that they seem like living
creatures--and the figures are so numerous and the design so complex that one might study it
a week without exhausting its interest.  On the great steeple--surmounting the myriad of spires--inside
of the spires--over the doors, the windows--in nooks and corners--every where that a niche
or a perch can be found about the enormous building, from summit to base, there is a marble
statue, and every statue is a study in itself! Raphael, Angelo, Canova--giants like these gave
birth to the designs, and their own pupils carved them.  Every face is eloquent with expression,
and every attitude is full of grace.  Away above, on the lofty roof, rank on rank of carved
and fretted spires spring high in the air, and through their rich tracery one sees the sky
beyond.  In their midst the central steeple towers proudly up like the mainmast of some great
Indiaman among a fleet of coasters.

We wished to go aloft.  The sacristan showed us a marble stairway (of course it was marble,
and of the purest and whitest--there is no other stone, no brick, no wood, among its building
materials) and told us to go up one hundred and eighty-two steps and stop till he came.  It
was not necessary to say stop--we should have done that any how.  We were tired by the time
we got there.  This was the roof.  Here, springing from its broad marble flagstones, were the
long files of spires, looking very tall close at hand, but diminishing in the distance like
the pipes of an organ.  We could see now that the statue on the top of each was the size of
a large man, though they all looked like dolls from the street.  We could see, also, that from
the inside of each and every one of these hollow spires, from sixteen to thirty-one beautiful
marble statues looked out upon the world below.

From the eaves to the comb of the roof stretched in endless succession great curved marble
beams, like the fore-and-aft braces of a steamboat, and along each beam from end to end stood
up a row of richly carved flowers and fruits--each separate and distinct in kind, and over
15,000 species represented.  At a little distance these rows seem to close together like the
ties of a railroad track, and then the mingling together of the buds and blossoms of this marble
garden forms a picture that is very charming to the eye.

We descended and entered.  Within the church, long rows of fluted columns, like huge monuments,
divided the building into broad aisles, and on the figured pavement fell many a soft blush
from the painted windows above.  I knew the church was very large, but I could not fully appreciate
its great size until I noticed that the men standing far down by the altar looked like boys,
and seemed to glide, rather than walk.  We loitered about gazing aloft at the monster windows
all aglow with brilliantly colored scenes in the lives of the Saviour and his followers. Some
of these pictures are mosaics, and so artistically are their thousand particles of tinted glass
or stone put together that the work has all the smoothness and finish of a painting.  We counted
sixty panes of glass in one window, and each pane was adorned with one of these master achievements
of genius and patience.

The guide showed us a coffee-colored piece of sculpture which he said was considered to have
come from the hand of Phidias, since it was not possible that any other artist, of any epoch,
could have copied nature with such faultless accuracy.  The figure was that of a man without
a skin; with every vein, artery, muscle, every fiber and tendon and tissue of the human frame
represented in minute detail.  It looked natural, because somehow it looked as if it were in
pain.  A skinned man would be likely to look that way unless his attention were occupied with
some other matter.  It was a hideous thing, and yet there was a fascination about it some where.
I am very sorry I saw it, because I shall always see it now.  I shall dream of it sometimes.
I shall dream that it is resting its corded arms on the bed's head and looking down on me with
its dead eyes; I shall dream that it is stretched between the sheets with me and touching me
with its exposed muscles and its stringy cold legs.

It is hard to forget repulsive things.  I remember yet how I ran off from school once, when
I was a boy, and then, pretty late at night, concluded to climb into the window of my father's
office and sleep on a lounge, because I had a delicacy about going home and getting thrashed.
As I lay on the lounge and my eyes grew accustomed to the darkness, I fancied I could see a
long, dusky, shapeless thing stretched upon the floor.  A cold shiver went through me.  I turned
my face to the wall.  That did not answer.  I was afraid that that thing would creep over and
seize me in the dark.  I turned back and stared at it for minutes and minutes--they seemed
hours.  It appeared to me that the lagging moonlight never, never would get to it.  I turned
to the wall and counted twenty, to pass the feverish time away.  I looked--the pale square
was nearer.  I turned again and counted fifty--it was almost touching it.  With desperate will
I turned again and counted one hundred, and faced about, all in a tremble.  A white human hand
lay in the moonlight!  Such an awful sinking at the heart--such a sudden gasp for breath! 
I felt--I cannot tell what I felt.  When I recovered strength enough, I faced the wall again.
But no boy could have remained so with that mysterious hand behind him.  I counted again and
looked--the most of a naked arm was exposed.  I put my hands over my eyes and counted till
I could stand it no longer, and then --the pallid face of a man was there, with the corners
of the mouth drawn down, and the eyes fixed and glassy in death!  I raised to a sitting posture
and glowered on that corpse till the light crept down the bare breastline by line--inch by
inch--past the nipple--and then it disclosed a ghastly stab!

I went away from there.

When I reached home, they whipped me, but I enjoyed it.  It seemed perfectly delightful.  That
man had been stabbed near the office that afternoon, and they carried him in there to doctor
him, but he only lived an hour.  I have slept in the same room with him often since then--in
my dreams.

Now we will descend into the crypt, under the grand altar of Milan Cathedral, and receive an
impressive sermon from lips that have been silent and hands that have been gestureless for
three hundred years.

The priest stopped in a small dungeon and held up his candle.  This was the last resting-place
of a good man, a warm-hearted, unselfish man; a man whose whole life was given to succoring
the poor, encouraging the faint-hearted, visiting the sick; in relieving distress, whenever
and wherever he found it.  His heart, his hand, and his purse were always open.  With his story
in one's mind he can almost see his benignant countenance moving calmly among the haggard faces
of Milan in the days when the plague swept the city, brave where all others were cowards, full
of compassion where pity had been crushed out of all other breasts by the instinct of self-preservation
gone mad with terror, cheering all, praying with all, helping all, with hand and brain and
purse, at a time when parents forsook their children, the friend deserted the friend, and the
brother turned away from the sister while her pleadings were still wailing in his ears.

This was good St. Charles Borromeo, Bishop of Milan.  The people idolized him; princes lavished
uncounted treasures upon him.  We stood in his tomb.  Near by was the sarcophagus, lighted
by the dripping candles.  The walls were faced with bas-reliefs representing scenes in his
life done in massive silver.  The priest put on a short white lace garment over his black robe,
crossed himself, bowed reverently, and began to turn a windlass slowly.  The sarcophagus separated
in two parts, lengthwise, and the lower part sank down and disclosed a coffin of rock crystal
as clear as the atmosphere.  Within lay the body, robed in costly habiliments covered with
gold embroidery and starred with scintillating gems.  The decaying head was black with age,
the dry skin was drawn tight to the bones, the eyes were gone, there was a hole in the temple
and another in the cheek, and the skinny lips were parted as in a ghastly smile!  Over this
dreadful face, its dust and decay and its mocking grin, hung a crown sown thick with flashing
brilliants; and upon the breast lay crosses and croziers of solid gold that were splendid with
emeralds and diamonds.

How poor, and cheap, and trivial these gew-gaws seemed in presence of the solemnity, the grandeur,
the awful majesty of Death!  Think of Milton, Shakespeare, Washington, standing before a reverent
world tricked out in the glass beads, the brass ear-rings and tin trumpery of the savages of
the plains!

Dead Bartolomeo preached his pregnant sermon, and its burden was: You that worship the vanities
of earth--you that long for worldly honor, worldly wealth, worldly fame--behold their worth!

To us it seemed that so good a man, so kind a heart, so simple a nature, deserved rest and
peace in a grave sacred from the intrusion of prying eyes, and believed that he himself would
have preferred to have it so, but peradventure our wisdom was at fault in this regard.

As we came out upon the floor of the church again, another priest volunteered to show us the
treasures of the church.

What, more?  The furniture of the narrow chamber of death we had just visited weighed six millions
of francs in ounces and carats alone, without a penny thrown into the account for the costly
workmanship bestowed upon them!  But we followed into a large room filled with tall wooden
presses like wardrobes.  He threw them open, and behold, the cargoes of "crude bullion" of
the assay offices of Nevada faded out of my memory.  There were Virgins and bishops there,
above their natural size, made of solid silver, each worth, by weight, from eight hundred thousand
to two millions of francs, and bearing gemmed books in their hands worth eighty thousand; there
were bas-reliefs that weighed six hundred pounds, carved in solid silver; croziers and crosses,
and candlesticks six and eight feet high, all of virgin gold, and brilliant with precious stones;
and beside these were all manner of cups and vases, and such things, rich in proportion.  It
was an Aladdin's palace.  The treasures here, by simple weight, without counting workmanship,
were valued at fifty millions of francs!  If I could get the custody of them for a while, I
fear me the market price of silver bishops would advance shortly, on account of their exceeding
scarcity in the Cathedral of Milan.

The priests showed us two of St. Paul's fingers, and one of St. Peter's; a bone of Judas Iscariot,
(it was black,) and also bones of all the other disciples; a handkerchief in which the Saviour
had left the impression of his face.  Among the most precious of the relics were a stone from
the Holy Sepulchre, part of the crown of thorns, (they have a whole one at Notre Dame,) a fragment
of the purple robe worn by the Saviour, a nail from the Cross, and a picture of the Virgin
and Child painted by the veritable hand of St. Luke.  This is the second of St. Luke's Virgins
we have seen.  Once a year all these holy relics are carried in procession through the streets
of Milan.

I like to revel in the dryest details of the great cathedral.  The building is five hundred
feet long by one hundred and eighty wide, and the principal steeple is in the neighborhood
of four hundred feet high. It has 7,148 marble statues, and will have upwards of three thousand
more when it is finished.  In addition it has one thousand five hundred bas-reliefs.  It has
one hundred and thirty-six spires--twenty-one more are to be added.  Each spire is surmounted
by a statue six and a half feet high.  Every thing about the church is marble, and all from
the same quarry; it was bequeathed to the Archbishopric for this purpose centuries ago.  So
nothing but the mere workmanship costs; still that is expensive --the bill foots up six hundred
and eighty-four millions of francs thus far (considerably over a hundred millions of dollars,)
and it is estimated that it will take a hundred and twenty years yet to finish the cathedral.
It looks complete, but is far from being so.  We saw a new statue put in its niche yesterday,
alongside of one which had been standing these four hundred years, they said.  There are four
staircases leading up to the main steeple, each of which cost a hundred thousand dollars, with
the four hundred and eight statues which adorn them.  Marco Compioni was the architect who
designed the wonderful structure more than five hundred years ago, and it took him forty-six
years to work out the plan and get it ready to hand over to the builders.  He is dead now.
The building was begun a little less than five hundred years ago, and the third generation
hence will not see it completed.

The building looks best by moonlight, because the older portions of it, being stained with
age, contrast unpleasantly with the newer and whiter portions.  It seems somewhat too broad
for its height, but may be familiarity with it might dissipate this impression.

They say that the Cathedral of Milan is second only to St. Peter's at Rome.  I cannot understand
how it can be second to anything made by human hands.

We bid it good-bye, now--possibly for all time.  How surely, in some future day, when the memory
of it shall have lost its vividness, shall we half believe we have seen it in a wonderful dream,
but never with waking eyes!

CHAPTER XIX.

"Do you wis zo haut can be?"

That was what the guide asked when we were looking up at the bronze horses on the Arch of Peace.
It meant, do you wish to go up there? I give it as a specimen of guide-English.  These are
the people that make life a burthen to the tourist.  Their tongues are never still.  They talk
forever and forever, and that is the kind of billingsgate they use. Inspiration itself could
hardly comprehend them.  If they would only show you a masterpiece of art, or a venerable tomb,
or a prison-house, or a battle-field, hallowed by touching memories or historical reminiscences,
or grand traditions, and then step aside and hold still for ten minutes and let you think,
it would not be so bad.  But they interrupt every dream, every pleasant train of thought, with
their tiresome cackling. Sometimes when I have been standing before some cherished old idol
of mine that I remembered years and years ago in pictures in the geography at school, I have
thought I would give a whole world if the human parrot at my side would suddenly perish where
he stood and leave me to gaze, and ponder, and worship.

No, we did not "wis zo haut can be."  We wished to go to La Scala, the largest theater in the
world, I think they call it.  We did so.  It was a large place.  Seven separate and distinct
masses of humanity--six great circles and a monster parquette.

We wished to go to the Ambrosian Library, and we did that also.  We saw a manuscript of Virgil,
with annotations in the handwriting of Petrarch, the gentleman who loved another man's Laura,
and lavished upon her all through life a love which was a clear waste of the raw material.
It was sound sentiment, but bad judgment.  It brought both parties fame, and created a fountain
of commiseration for them in sentimental breasts that is running yet.  But who says a word
in behalf of poor Mr. Laura?  (I do not know his other name.)  Who glorifies him?  Who bedews
him with tears? Who writes poetry about him?  Nobody.  How do you suppose he liked the state
of things that has given the world so much pleasure?  How did he enjoy having another man following
his wife every where and making her name a familiar word in every garlic-exterminating mouth
in Italy with his sonnets to her pre-empted eyebrows?  They got fame and sympathy--he got neither.
This is a peculiarly felicitous instance of what is called poetical justice.  It is all very
fine; but it does not chime with my notions of right.  It is too one-sided--too ungenerous.

Let the world go on fretting about Laura and Petrarch if it will; but as for me, my tears and
my lamentations shall be lavished upon the unsung defendant.

We saw also an autograph letter of Lucrezia Borgia, a lady for whom I have always entertained
the highest respect, on account of her rare histrionic capabilities, her opulence in solid
gold goblets made of gilded wood, her high distinction as an operatic screamer, and the facility
with which she could order a sextuple funeral and get the corpses ready for it.  We saw one
single coarse yellow hair from Lucrezia's head, likewise.  It awoke emotions, but we still
live.  In this same library we saw some drawings by Michael Angelo (these Italians call him
Mickel Angelo,) and Leonardo da Vinci.  (They spell it Vinci and pronounce it Vinchy; foreigners
always spell better than they pronounce.) We reserve our opinion of these sketches.

In another building they showed us a fresco representing some lions and other beasts drawing
chariots; and they seemed to project so far from the wall that we took them to be sculptures.
The artist had shrewdly heightened the delusion by painting dust on the creatures' backs, as
if it had fallen there naturally and properly.  Smart fellow--if it be smart to deceive strangers.

Elsewhere we saw a huge Roman amphitheatre, with its stone seats still in good preservation.
Modernized, it is now the scene of more peaceful recreations than the exhibition of a party
of wild beasts with Christians for dinner.  Part of the time, the Milanese use it for a race
track, and at other seasons they flood it with water and have spirited yachting regattas there.
The guide told us these things, and he would hardly try so hazardous an experiment as the telling
of a falsehood, when it is all he can do to speak the truth in English without getting the
lock-jaw.

In another place we were shown a sort of summer arbor, with a fence before it.  We said that
was nothing.  We looked again, and saw, through the arbor, an endless stretch of garden, and
shrubbery, and grassy lawn. We were perfectly willing to go in there and rest, but it could
not be done.  It was only another delusion--a painting by some ingenious artist with little
charity in his heart for tired folk.  The deception was perfect.  No one could have imagined
the park was not real.  We even thought we smelled the flowers at first.

We got a carriage at twilight and drove in the shaded avenues with the other nobility, and
after dinner we took wine and ices in a fine garden with the great public.  The music was excellent,
the flowers and shrubbery were pleasant to the eye, the scene was vivacious, everybody was
genteel and well-behaved, and the ladies were slightly moustached, and handsomely dressed,
but very homely.

We adjourned to a cafe and played billiards an hour, and I made six or seven points by the
doctor pocketing his ball, and he made as many by my pocketing my ball.  We came near making
a carom sometimes, but not the one we were trying to make.  The table was of the usual European
style --cushions dead and twice as high as the balls; the cues in bad repair. The natives play
only a sort of pool on them.  We have never seen any body playing the French three-ball game
yet, and I doubt if there is any such game known in France, or that there lives any man mad
enough to try to play it on one of these European tables.  We had to stop playing finally because
Dan got to sleeping fifteen minutes between the counts and paying no attention to his marking.

Afterward we walked up and down one of the most popular streets for some time, enjoying other
people's comfort and wishing we could export some of it to our restless, driving, vitality-consuming
marts at home.  Just in this one matter lies the main charm of life in Europe--comfort.  In
America, we hurry--which is well; but when the day's work is done, we go on thinking of losses
and gains, we plan for the morrow, we even carry our business cares to bed with us, and toss
and worry over them when we ought to be restoring our racked bodies and brains with sleep.
We burn up our energies with these excitements, and either die early or drop into a lean and
mean old age at a time of life which they call a man's prime in Europe.  When an acre of ground
has produced long and well, we let it lie fallow and rest for a season; we take no man clear
across the continent in the same coach he started in--the coach is stabled somewhere on the
plains and its heated machinery allowed to cool for a few days; when a razor has seen long
service and refuses to hold an edge, the barber lays it away for a few weeks, and the edge
comes back of its own accord.  We bestow thoughtful care upon inanimate objects, but none upon
ourselves.  What a robust people, what a nation of thinkers we might be, if we would only lay
ourselves on the shelf occasionally and renew our edges!

I do envy these Europeans the comfort they take.  When the work of the day is done, they forget
it.  Some of them go, with wife and children, to a beer hall and sit quietly and genteelly
drinking a mug or two of ale and listening to music; others walk the streets, others drive
in the avenues; others assemble in the great ornamental squares in the early evening to enjoy
the sight and the fragrance of flowers and to hear the military bands play--no European city
being without its fine military music at eventide; and yet others of the populace sit in the
open air in front of the refreshment houses and eat ices and drink mild beverages that could
not harm a child.  They go to bed moderately early, and sleep well.  They are always quiet,
always orderly, always cheerful, comfortable, and appreciative of life and its manifold blessings.
One never sees a drunken man among them.  The change that has come over our little party is
surprising.  Day by day we lose some of our restlessness and absorb some of the spirit of quietude
and ease that is in the tranquil atmosphere about us and in the demeanor of the people.  We
grow wise apace.  We begin to comprehend what life is for.

We have had a bath in Milan, in a public bath-house.  They were going to put all three of us
in one bath-tub, but we objected.  Each of us had an Italian farm on his back.  We could have
felt affluent if we had been officially surveyed and fenced in.  We chose to have three bathtubs,
and large ones--tubs suited to the dignity of aristocrats who had real estate, and brought
it with them.  After we were stripped and had taken the first chilly dash, we discovered that
haunting atrocity that has embittered our lives in so many cities and villages of Italy and
France --there was no soap.  I called.  A woman answered, and I barely had time to throw myself
against the door--she would have been in, in another second. I said:

"Beware, woman!  Go away from here--go away, now, or it will be the worse for you.  I am an
unprotected male, but I will preserve my honor at the peril of my life!"

These words must have frightened her, for she skurried away very fast.

Dan's voice rose on the air:

"Oh, bring some soap, why don't you!"

The reply was Italian.  Dan resumed:

