THE reason is supposed to affirm the doctrine that God has chosen some men to get saving grace,
and some men only. The question is asked, "Is God the cause or author of man's salvation, or
is man the author of his own salvation?" It is maintained that God being entirely the author
of man's salvation, and that as man is brought into a state of safety by infallible grace,
and as God exercises this grace, He must have determined to do it in eternity. The doctrine
of election is thus supposed to be affirmed by the reason. But this is a very summary process
of settling the question. How stands the case? If by "salvation" is meant the meritorious ground
of salvation, then the question about its authorship is very single. God is the sole author.
He devised the plan, He wrought it out, and He applies it to the hearts of men. To Him belongs
all the glory.

But the question of merit being settled, there is another. It is this--Are there immeritorious
grounds of salvation, and are men required to be active in their moral regeneration? We must
distinguish between God's action and that of man. To confound them is a grand mistake. In the
Bible we find certain moral conditions insisted upon in order to moral deliverance. There is
a human side in the matter. Are not men called upon "to look?" "to hear?" "to come?" "to eat?"
"to repent?" "to choose?" these terms represent acts which men are called upon to perform.
God does not "look" or "choose" or "repent" for men. They must "choose" or die. The Spirit
comes to them, points out their sinful state, and places Christ before them as their Saviour.
When they give ear unto him, and put their trust in Jesus, they become saved. They have no
more merit in the matter than a beggar has when he accepts alms, or a prisoner when he accepts
a pardon.

Salvation, then, as regards merit, is entirely of God, but men are required to be active in
their own deliverance. But why do some yield, and some not? This question has often been asked,
and it is supposed that it stops all further argument. Let us look, however, at the saved man.
God has wrought out the remedy, the Holy Spirit plies the sinner with motives for accepting
the Saviour, and under His persuasion he yields himself up unto God, and gives Him all the
glory of His salvation. Both scripturally and philosophically the man's saved condition is
accounted for. And can anything be said against it? Look now at the unsaved man: why has he
not believed? To press for an answer to this question is just to press for an answer to another--viz.,
why do men sin? Can any one give a reason for it that will stand scrutiny? No one, not even
God; and to demand an answer in these circumstances is unphilosophical and impertinent. The
one believes through grace, and the other resists and dies. We submit that this is a fair explanation
of the case. The believer acts in harmony with the reason, the unbeliever is guilty of sin;
and no reason can be given for sin.

The view thus advocated has been held as a denial of the Spirit's work. If by the Spirit's
work is understood a faith-necessitating and will-overpowering work, then certainly the Spirit's
work is thus denied. But this is to cut before the point. There are, for instance, different
views of inspiration, as the inspiration of direction, superintendency, elevation, and suggestion.
Suppose I were asked what theory of inspiration I held regarding any portion of the Bible,
and I answered that I had none, but took the Scriptures as God's message to men, would it be
fair argument to assert that I denied inspiration? Manifestly not. But neither is it fair to
raise the cry that the Spirit's work is denied because a particular theory regarding that work
is denied, the theory, namely, which makes it to be physical or mechanical.

Incorrect views of the Spirit's work have been entertained by theologians in consequence of
erroneous conceptions regarding the degeneracy of human nature. Augustine held that man can
do nothing which will at all contribute to His spiritual recovery. He is like a lump of clay,
or a statue without life or activity. In consequence of these views, he held that grace in
its operation on the heart was irresistible,--sometimes through the word, at other times without
it. Dr. Knapp says, "God does not act in such a way as to infringe upon the free will of man,
or to interfere with the use of his powers" (Phil. ii. 12, 13). Consequently, God does not
act on men immediately, producing ideas in their souls without the preaching or reading of
the scriptures, or influencing their will in any other way than by the understanding. Did God
act in any other way than through the understanding, he would operate miraculously and irresistibly,
and the practice of virtue under such an influence would have no intrinsic worth; it would
be compelled, and consequently incapable of reward (Theo., p. 408). He says again, "The doctrine
of the Protestant church has always been that God does not act immediately on the heart in
conversion, or, in other words, that He does not produce ideas in the understanding, and effects
in the will, by His absolute Divine power without the employment of external means. This would
be such an immediate conversion and illumination as fanatics contend for, who regard their
own imaginations and thoughts as effects of the Spirit" (p. 400). If our creed on this subject
is to be based on the Bible, it leaves us in no doubt upon the matter. In speaking of the new
birth it is written, "Of His own will begat He us by the word of truth, that we should be a
kind of firstfruits of His creatures" (Jas. i. 18). Here the truth is used as the medium in
conversion, and not a syllable about irresistible influence. (1 Peter i. 23). Our Lord, in
explaining the parable of the sower said--"The seed is the word of God," and seed, in order
to germination, must have an appropriate soil.

CALVINISTIC ELECTION UNCONDITIONAL:--The followers of Calvin, however they differ among themselves
regarding certain standpoints, agree in this, that evangelical election is unconditional. (Confess.,
Chap. III.) Dr. Payne says of the elect, "They were not chosen to salvation on account of their
foreseen repentance, and faith, and obedience, for faith and repentance are the fruit, not
the root of predestination" (p. 47.) And again, "The electing decree, which is unconditional"
(p. 38).

The Bible has been appealed to as supporting this view, that election is eternal and unconditional,
and we shall consider certain of the passages thus appealed to.

CHAPTER V.

BIBLE TEXTS IN PROOF OF CALVINISTIC ELECTION CONSIDERED.

IN Matthew xx. 16 it is written: "For many are called, but few are chosen." These words occur
at the conclusion of the parable of the marriage of the king's son. A great feast had been
provided and parties invited. A second invitation was sent out, in harmony with oriental usage;
but those first invited made excuses, and refused to come. The servants were then commissioned
to go out and give an invitation to all and sundry, and the wedding was furnished with guests.
When the king came in to see the guests, he found a man without a wedding garment, and asked
him how he had come in not having on one. The man remained speechless. It is then added, "many
are called, but few are chosen." Now, the election which Calvinists contend for is eternal
and unconditional. Does the above passage prove this? We think it proves the reverse. There
was a rejection and a choosing, but each was based on state or personal condition. The man
was rejected because he had not on the wedding garment; the others were chosen because they
had it on. Suppose that there was no robe for the man, would he or should he have been speechless?
Might he not have risen up in the midst of the assembly, and said, "Sire, I received the invitation
in the highway. I was pressed to come to the feast. When I came there was no robe for me, and
even if there had been one, there was no one to help me to put it on; and by a fatal accident
in childhood I lost an arm, and was unable to do it myself. Yet I received the invitation,
and that is the reason why I am here." Would not such a speech have been perfectly satisfactory?
And where the justice of condemning the man to be cast, in these circumstance, into outer darkness?
But the punishment meted out to the man, showed that there was a robe for him, and that he
might have put it on. The choice, therefore, of sitting at the marriage feast was conditional,
and not, as Calvinists contend, unconditional.

The choice, moreover, was after the calling, and is yet to take place, and as a consequence
the passage does not prove that election is eternal. No doubt, whatever God does in time He
purposed to do in eternity, but we should distinguish between a purpose to choose and the choice
itself.

There is nothing, then, in this passage to perplex any one. God, the infinite Father and heavenly
King, has provided a feast of love for all men, and therefore for you, O reader, whosoever
you are. Christ has wrought out a robe of righteousness for all, and therefore for you. The
Holy Spirit prays you to be clothed with it--that is, to depend on Christ and Christ only,
and not upon your doings or upon your feelings. When you cease to depend on self and to rest
entirely on Jesus, there springs up in the heart an aspiration to be Christ -like, and to be
wholly His. By being clothed with Christ's righteousness you will have, by God's grace, a title
to sit down at the heavenly feast, and a moral meetness for heavenly society. This passage
is one of the strongholds of the view we contend against; but if it prove eternal election,
it will also prove much more than this. If the persons spoken of were eternally elected, then
they were also eternally called, and eternally justified, and eternally glorified. They would
thus be justified before they sinned, and glorified before they had a being. The verbs are
all in the aorist tense, and what is true of one verb is true of all the others. An interpretation
burdened with such consequences cannot be true.

Dr. Payne has very few remarks on the passage, but they are emphatic enough. "The passage is
so conclusive," he says, "that it scarcely seems to require or even to admit of many remarks,"
and he does not give many. The simple question is this: does this passage prove unconditional
election? Is there anything in the context to prove the reverse? We think that there is. He
is thus writing of a certain class of persons, or of persons in a certain moral state, that
moral state being that they were lovers of God, as he expressly states in verse 28. He does
not say that they were visited by a special and irresistible influence bestowed on them and
withheld from others. And having intimated their call, Paul goes on to show what was the destiny
awaiting the believer. He says, "For whom He did foreknow," and when he said this he could
not mean the mere knowledge of entities, or of persons, for this reason, that God knows the
finally lost as well as the finally saved. The apostle therefore could only mean that God,
knowing beforehand those who would love him, fore-appointed or decreed in eternity that those
who possessed this moral state should be conformed to the image of His Son, or personal appearance
of Christ (1 John iii. 2). Those lovers of God thus predestinated are invited to heavenly bliss,
and will be ultimately justified before the world, and glorified. The twenty -eighth verse,
then, lays down the condition upon which the whole passage rests; and to bring forward the
text as a proof of unconditional election, is simply to ignore the context. As far as this
portion of the Bible is concerned, there is nothing to perplex the most simple. Become a lover
of God, and the destiny sketched by the apostle awaits you. We become lovers of God by believing
in His love to us. "We love Him," says John, "because He first loved us" (1 John iv. 19).

THE UNBORN CHILDREN.--Romans ix. 11, is appealed to. This verse is parenthetical, lying between
the tenth and twelfth verses. They read thus, verse 10: "And not only this, but when Rebecca
also had conceived by one, even by our father Isaac;" verse 12: "It was said unto her, the
elder shall serve the younger." It is the eleventh verse which is taken as proving Calvinistic
election. It is supposed to refer to the spiritual and eternal condition of the respective
parties. But how stands the case? The original statement is found in Genesis xxv. Now, if we
take the passage in the Calvinistic sense, that it refers to salvation, what will follow? This,
namely, that all the descendants of Jacob would be saved, and all the descendants of Esau utterly
lost. If this were so, then why should Paul have been so troubled about the spiritual state
of his countrymen, as he says he was, in the preamble of this very chapter? The hypothesis,
makes the apostle to stultify himself as a logician.

The Calvinistic interpretation will not stand looking at, there being, in fact, no reference
to salvation in the passage. The apostle quotes the text, the purport of which is that in a
certain respect the people of Esau would be inferior to the people of Jacob. The Jews held
that, being Abraham's seed, they were safe for eternity. The apostle's argument, then, is this:
The people of Esau were as truly descended from Abraham as you, my countrymen, are, and yet
this descent did not entitle them to be the Messianic people; and if mere descent did not entitle
to this, how much less would it entitle to heavenly glory? The text, then, has really no bearing
upon evangelical election, but simply to the election of the Jews to theocratic privileges.

CHOSEN BEFORE THE FOUNDATION OF THE WORLD.--Ephesians i. 4, is appealed to. It reads thus:
"According as He hath chosen us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be
holy and without blame before Him in love." This is an old favourite text in support of eternal
and unconditional election. But does it prove it? Those Christians to whom Paul wrote were
chosen before the foundation of the world. True, but what does this mean? Does it prove eternal
election? To elect is to "pick out," "to select." But the parties spoken of could not be actually
elected or chosen before they existed. Before you can take a pebble from an urn, it must first
be in the urn. So before man can be actually picked out of the world, he must first be in it:
hence election must be a work of time. Paul speaks of his kinsmen who were in Christ before
him (Rom. xvi. 7); but if election is eternal, then the one could not be in Christ before the
other. The language then in Eph. i. 14, can only refer to the purpose of God to select certain
persons in time--BELIEVERS--to be "holy and without blame." The bearing of the passage, then,
is the same as many others, and is simply this, that whatever God does in time, He determined
to do in eternity. His purpose was formed before the foundation of the world, or in eternity.

Neither is there any countenance given to the idea that the election was unconditional. This
is clearly shown by the words "IN HIM." If this is a true version of the case, then the saved
were elected first when they were out of Christ. But the passage in Ephesians says the reverse
of this. They were elected being IN CHRIST. To be in Christ is just to be united to Him by
faith--a believer in Christ as the great High Priest of humanity.

