The first morning we were all in the bedroom together, and, there being no blameless person
to collect fines, the wildest civil disorder prevailed.

On the second day Salemina and I improved slightly, but Francesca had passed a sleepless night,
and her hand trembled (the love-letter mail had come in from America). We were obliged to tell
her, as we collected 'tuppence' twice on the same egg, that she must either remain at home,
or take an oilcloth pinafore to Marjorimallow Hall.

But 'ease is the lovely result of forgotten toil,' and it is only a question of time and desire
with Americans, we are so clever. Other nations have to be trained from birth; but as we need
only an ounce of training where they need a pound, we can afford to procrastinate. Sometimes
we procrastinate too long, but that is a trifle. On the third morning success crowned our efforts.
Salemina smiled, and I told an anecdote, during the operation, although my egg was cracked
in the boiling, and I question if the Queen's favourite maid-of-honour could have managed it
prettily. Accordingly, when eggs were brought to the breakfast-table at Marjorimallow Hall,
we were only slightly nervous. Francesca was at the far end of the long table, and I do not
know how she fared, but from various Anglicisms that Salemina dropped, as she chatted with
the Queen's Counsel on her left, I could see that her nerve was steady and circulation free.
We exchanged glances (there was the mistake!), and with an embarrassed laugh she struck her
egg a hasty blow.

Her egg-cup slipped and lurched; a top fraction of the egg flew in the direction of the Q.C.,
and the remaining portion oozed, in yellow confusion, rapidly into her plate. Alas for that
past mistress of elegant dignity, Salemina! If I had been at Her Majesty's table, I should
have smiled, even if I had gone to the Tower the next moment; but as it was, I became hysterical.
My neighbour, a portly member of Parliament, looked amazed, Salemina grew scarlet, the situation
was charged with danger; and, rapidly viewing the various exits, I chose the humorous one,
and told as picturesquely as possible the whole story of our school of egg-opening in Dovermarle
Street, the highly arduous and encouraging rehearsals conducted there, and the stupendous failure
incident to our first public appearance. Sir Owen led the good-natured laughter and applause;
lords and ladies, Q.C.'s and M.P.'s joined in with a will; poor Salemina raised her drooping
head, opened and ate a second egg with the repose of a Vere de Vere--and the footman smiled!

Chapter IV. The English sense of humour.

I do not see why we hear that the Englishman is deficient in a sense of humour. His jokes may
not be a matter of daily food to him, as they are to the American; he may not love whimsicality
with the same passion, nor inhale the aroma of a witticism with as keen a relish; but he likes
fun whenever he sees it, and he sees it as often as most people. It may be that we find the
Englishman more receptive to our bits of feminine nonsense just now, simply because this is
the day of the American woman in London, and, having been assured that she is an entertaining
personage, young John Bull is willing to take it for granted so long as she does not try to
marry him, and even this pleasure he will allow her on occasion,--if well paid for it.

The longer I live, the more I feel it an absurdity to label nations with national traits, and
then endeavour to make individuals conform to the required standard. It is possible, I suppose,
to draw certain broad distinctions, though even these are subject to change; but the habit
of generalising from one particular, that mainstay of the cheap and obvious essayist, has rooted
many fictions in the public mind. He laughs before, during, and after every remark I make,
unless it be a simple request for food or drink. This is an acquaintance of Willie Beresford,
the Honourable Arthur Ponsonby, who was the 'whip' on our coach drive to Dorking,--dear, delightful,
adorable Dorking, of hen celebrity.

Salemina insisted on my taking the box seat, in the hope that the Honourable Arthur would amuse
me. She little knew him! He sapped me of all my ideas, and gave me none in exchange. Anything
so unspeakably heavy I never encountered. It is very difficult for a woman who doesn't know
a nigh horse from an off one, nor the wheelers from the headers (or is it the fronters?), to
find subjects of conversation with a gentleman who spends three-fourths of his existence on
a coach. It was the more difficult for me because I could not decide whether Willie Beresford
was cross because I was devoting myself to the whip, or because Francesca had remained at home
with a headache. This state of affairs continued for about fifteen miles, when it suddenly
dawned upon the Honourable Arthur that, however mistaken my speech and manner, I was trying
to be agreeable. This conception acted on the honest and amiable soul like magic. I gradually
became comprehensible, and finally he gave himself up to the theory that, though eccentric,
I was harmless and amusing, so we got on famously,--so famously that Willie Beresford grew
ridiculously gloomy, and I decided that it could not be Francesca's headache.

The names of these English streets are a never-failing source of delight to me. In that one
morning we drove past Pie, Pudding, and Petticoat Lanes, and later on we found ourselves in
a 'Prudent Passage,' which opened, very inappropriately, into 'Huggin Lane.' Willie Beresford
said it was the first time he had ever heard of anything so disagreeable as prudence terminating
in anything so agreeable as huggin'. When he had been severely reprimanded by his mother for
this shocking speech, I said to the Honourable Arthur:--

"I don't understand your business signs in England,--this 'Company, Limited,' and that 'Company,
Limited.' That one, of course, is quite plain" (pointing to the front of a building on the
village street), "'Goat's Milk Company, Limited'; I suppose they have but one or two goats,
and necessarily the milk must be Limited."

Salemina says that this was not in the least funny, that it was absolutely flat; but it had
quite the opposite effect upon the Honourable Arthur. He had no command over himself or his
horses for some minutes; and at intervals during the afternoon the full felicity of the idea
would steal upon him, and the smile of reminiscence would flit across his ruddy face.

The next day, at the Eton and Harrow games at Lord's cricket-ground, he presented three flowers
of British aristocracy to our party, and asked me each time to tell the goat-story, which he
had previously told himself, and probably murdered in the telling. Not content with this arrant
flattery, he begged to be allowed to recount some of my international episodes to a literary
friend who writes for Punch. I demurred decidedly, but Salemina said that perhaps I ought to
be willing to lower myself a trifle for the sake of elevating Punch! This home-thrust so delighted
the Honourable Arthur that it remained his favourite joke for days, and the overworked goat
was permitted to enjoy that oblivion from which Salemina insists it should never have emerged.

Chapter V. A Hyde Park Sunday.

The Honourable Arthur, Salemina, and I took a stroll in Hyde Park one Sunday afternoon, not
for the purpose of joining the fashionable throng of 'pretty people' at Stanhope Gate, but
to mingle with the common herd in its special precincts,--precincts not set apart, indeed,
by any legal formula, but by a natural law of classification which seems to be inherent in
the universe. It was a curious and motley crowd--a little dull, perhaps, but orderly, well-behaved,
and self-respecting, with here and there part of the flotsam and jetsam of a great city, a
ragged, sodden, hopeless wretch wending his way about with the rest, thankful for any diversion.

Under the trees, each in the centre of his group, large or small according to his magnetism
and eloquence, stood the park 'shouter,' airing his special grievance, playing his special
part, preaching his special creed, pleading his special cause,--anything, probably, for the
sake of shouting. We were plainly dressed, and did not attract observation as we joined the
outside circle of one of these groups after another. It was as interesting to watch the listeners
as the speakers. I wished I might paint the sea of faces, eager, anxious, stolid, attentive,
happy, and unhappy: histories written on many of them; others blank, unmarked by any thought
or aspiration. I stole a sidelong look at the Honourable Arthur. He is an Englishman first,
and a man afterwards (I prefer it the other way), but he does not realise it; he thinks he
is just like all other good fellows, although he is mistaken. He and Willie Beresford speak
the same language, but they are as different as Malay and Eskimo. He is an extreme type, but
he is very likeable and very well worth looking at, with his long coat, his silk hat, and the
white Malmaison in his buttonhole. He is always so radiantly, fascinatingly clean, the Honourable
Arthur, simple, frank, direct, sensible, and he bores me almost to tears.

The first orator was edifying his hearers with an explanation of the drama of The Corsican
Brothers, and his eloquence, unlike that of the other speakers, was largely inspired by the
hope of pennies. It was a novel idea, and his interpretation was rendered very amusing to us
by the wholly original Yorkshire accent which he gave to the French personages and places in
the play.

An Irishman in black clerical garb held the next group together. He was in some trouble, owing
to a pig-headed and quarrelsome Scotchman in the front rank, who objected to each statement
that fell from his lips, thus interfering seriously with the effect of his peroration. If the
Irishman had been more convincing, I suppose the crowd would have silenced the scoffer, for
these little matters of discipline are always attended to by the audience; but the Scotchman's
points were too well taken; he was so trenchant, in fact, at times, that a voice would cry,
'Coom up, Sandy, an' 'ave it all your own w'y, boy!' The discussion continued as long as we
were within hearing distance, for the Irishman, though amiable and ignorant, was firm, the
'unconquered Scot' was on his native heath of argument, and the listeners were willing to give
them both a hearing.

Under the next tree a fluent Cockney lad of sixteen or eighteen years was declaiming his bitter
experiences with the Salvation Army. He had been sheltered in one of its beds which was not
to his taste, and it had found employment for him which he had to walk twenty-two miles to
get, and which was not to his liking when he did get it. A meeting of the Salvation Army at
a little distance rendered his speech more interesting, as its points were repeated and denied
as fast as made.

Of course there were religious groups and temperance groups, and groups devoted to the tearing
down or raising up of most things except the Government; for on that day there were no Anarchist
or Socialist shouters, as is ordinarily the case.

