 Madonna in painted clay by a Bolognese master to 1460th]

In the younger generation of Bolognese sculptors, among which the most notable Vincenzo Onofri is
weakened, the freshness and power of a naturalism Niccolo dell 'Arca and Sperandio more and more
a more timid, and sometimes even considered weak and cleaner and delicate way of treatment
from. Her works are the works of contemporaneous artists: Costa, Aspertini, Francia, etc. closely
related. Tomb Nacci in S. Petronio, an early work of the Onofri, a bust of the Beroaldus in S. Martino
Maggiore (1504) and the color Altar with a relief of the Madonna with saints and angels in the Servi
(1503), both also by Onofri, a professor grave in the cloister of S. Martino Maggiore (1503) and
the Francis Francia attributed marble portrait of Giov. II Bentivoglio in San Giacomo Maggiore,
running low relief (1497), are characteristic and good works in this direction, from the Berlin
Museum also has a major work (No. 191): the painting in their fine obtained bust of a noble Bolognese.
It shall from time immemorial as a work of Fr Francia, his painted portraits she is in fact closely
related.

In the church of S. Maria della Vita in Bologna is a large group of the Lamentation of Christ
been hidden, identified as the author only recently Niccolo dell 'Arca is. Although in the wrong
place and in poor light, distorted by thick brown coat and poor restorations, especially of the
hands, this group still a surprising, certainly to some extent decided deterrent. stand around
in the desperate pain Relatives of the dead body of the Lord, the women screaming and in despair
over throwing the body or faint, collapsing next. The random collection these figures to a large
open group, the full naturalistic By forming the same, which goes so far that most of the characters
even appear in period costume, increases the exaggerated Expression of pain to a disagreeable impression
of naturalness and the momentary (See p. 132f.). But precisely because of these qualities, combined with
the painting and Installation in niches appear regularly in these and similar groups running
Thon have found an extraordinary appeal to. Niccolo was at least in the Modenese Guido Mazzoni
(c. 1450-1518), a successor to its activity almost exclusively on Such groups of the Lamentation
of the Body of Christ, cribs, etc., and thus limited in various parts of Italy had the greatest
success and self-appointed to the foreign was. Simpler and less dramatic in the view as Niccolo
dell 'Arca, he chooses his models in the midst of the people and goes to the naturalistic depiction
of the same to on their costumes and accessories all in the totally genre-like treatment of
his biblical themes addition, more than his role model, so that only his honest, serious view
a ridiculous or prevented deterrent effect of these groups. The earliest of these, the large group
the Lamentation in S. Giovanni Decollato of Modena (1477-1480), is probably his most efficient
and careful work, it is far less banal than the adoration of the child in the crypt the cathedral
or how the very poor group established the Lamentation of Christ in the Church Tues Montoliveto
to Naples. The artist was called to Naples in 1491 and led here probably even the simple, life-like
bronze bust of King Ferrante in the Museo Nazionale out. The Beweinungsgruppe in SM della Rosa
Ferrara joined the group in S. Giovanni close to Modena related, if not increased. - Owns the Berlin
Museum, the only piece of his Hand outside Italy, the fragment of such a group: the head of
a pin, seriously and simple in conception, full of old aptly live in the pristine paint.

Guido's groups in Modena in the Cinquecento a classical education by Begarelli obtained (p. 167),
but they have not yet found his time imitators, especially in the
Lombardy, whose work primarily on direct effect calculated on the
devotion and were therefore placed regularly in shrines or altars
miraculous.

* * * * *

       The pictorial art of the Lombardy shows the influence of the fifteenth
century, in the lanes the Renaissance was turning.

Of course, were already in various places Florentine artist been active. The staff at the Donatello's
statue at the Campanile in Florence, Giovanni Bartolo Gen. Rosso, erected in S. Fermo at Verona soon
after 1420 that imposing Wall of the family grave Brenzoni with the high relief of the Resurrection,
the final figures a fresh realism show, but the Gothic traditions still not free. The same character,
the monument of the Cortesia Sarego in Sat Anastasia (1432), with the energetic Equestrian figure
of the commander from his squire, and in the same church is the wall decoration Capella Pellegrini
of a sequence of Thonreliefs from the life of Christ, which is about the same time executed by a Florentine
artist in the styles were similar transition (see p. 51). But these works of foreign artists were
no successors to the local sculptors. It was similar in Milan. Donatello's pupils and staff Michelozzo
been here since 1456 active. His buildings, which he for the representatives of the Medici
banking house, built for the Portinari, are adorned with decorative sculptures, cherubs and fruit
garlands in their character his show by Donatello dependent, but somewhat cumbersome and not
very busy plastic But it also has the local flavor in arrangement, costumes, etc. into account. This
applies to the portal of Mediceerbank (now in the Brera) as the pilasters the dome and decorations
of the Cappella Portinari in S. Eustorgio (angels with garlands). But in Milan in this process
is not directly and not directly a local artistic activity to, such as in Verona Florentine
sculptures have cast doubt later stimulating, but they were just a moment in the revival of
the local Renaissance sculpture in Lombardy and not the decisive one.

The character of Lombard sculpture, soon after the middle of the century various Places in a very
related, and sharply defined the same way with numerous and extensive Works occurs, has above all
to the influence of Donatello's Padua School, the errant comaskischen
stonemasons and sculptors from Padua and Venice brought back home.

The Lombard sculptures peculiar lean, sinewy figures, the restless, Wrinkled, curled in the folds of
the body anklatschenden robes, the pursuit of dramatic Narrative figurative representation
and corresponds to a strong feeling expressed throughout the Paduan art, but an insufficient knowledge
of nature and a most superficial implementation makes this work only in exceptional circumstances
to reach full artistic maturity, in the expression they are weak in the rule or distorted,
in the form of exaggerated and caricatured form, overwhelmed in the arrangement. The joy of
bilderischem jewelry, once revived, is soon again a large and general that the artists inside
and outside of the building so and cover because they are architects and sculptors at the same time,
their greatest triumph is seek to resolve the architectural forms in sculptures almost. It is
the preference Small figures for the accumulation of many scenes and figurines, to run in Wood,
where space permits, and for rich colors and gold by the touch appeared to with the German
art, if not excited, but significantly promoted, for these properties are in the German border
adjacent locations most pronounced. No other province Italy is so rich with sculptures of
this time, but are hardly in a different place the same distinction as little press, so little
of the individuality of their masters, such as especially in Lombardy. The artists are from
the decorative effect of her carvings meet, so it lacks the same in absolute artistic value and artistic
appeal of the Character. On the other hand, but now the renewed desire to build and chisels, which already
in XII. and XIII. Century, the stonemasons of Lombardy, particularly from Como and the surrounding
area, their Way could be found throughout Italy, and again many Lombards as itinerant artists
beyond the borders of their homeland driven out, and in most provinces of Italy, outside of
Tuscany, as can bethätigen as architects including as a sculptor. Among them are individual
artists, thanks to the contact with foreign art, of a meaning as it has none of the Lombard sculptor
in the home. Especially in this is also in this Period, the outstanding importance of Lombard
sculpture.

The Baueifer individual tyrants, including the Visconti and Sforza, and the Condottiere Colleoni,
who emulated them in it, offered the sculptors of the Lombardy opportunity, in their art to
your heart's desire to show in unprecedented splendor. The Certosa of Pavia, whose construction
and equipment for almost all fall into this time has, in graceful elegance of the work, superb the
valuable gorgeous rock not equaled in Europe, the Milan cathedral
was now its graceful dome, which was clothed with a forest of slender
marble pillars, the thousands of small and large statues adorn, and
Bartolommeo Colleoni was for his and his daughter's tomb next to magnificent
end SM Maggiore in Bergamo, whose facade he had can build, establish
a chapel made of colored marble, a true jewel richest Renaissance
art and clean work.

The most prominent artist of this work, builder both are initially Cristoforo Mantegazza (†
1482) and his brother Antonio Mantegazza († 1493). Gianantonio Amadeo (1447-1522), for the beard.
Colleoni Chapel and worked those grave the monuments erected therein, (since 1477) its successor
in the construction of the Certosa and takes In 1499 the management of the cathedral in Milan.
occur simultaneously in both places many Statues and monuments in his workshop, which all more
or less of the harsh, often caricatured nature of the figures, the restless drapery, overcrowding
with motifs and small figures inherent featuring the work of the two Mantegazza.

The earliest so far detectable is the work of Lombard Renaissance facade of the Baptistery in the cathedral
of Genoa, Dom. and Elijah Gagini and Giovanni da Bissone executed since 1448th Later softer and
the work of the Ant Tamagnini and Pace Gagini are in Pal. San Giorgio ibid.; harsh and angular,
the image works with which particular his leadership during Tommaso Rotari the cathedral in
Como (1487-1526) decorated the inside and outside the church has. A contemporary, Vincenzo Foppa
Gen. Caradosso (c. 1445-1527), later as a goldsmith and engraver the court of the popes decades
long, has worked in Milan as an assistant Bramante's the decoration of the sacristy of S.
Satiro Thonreliefs with playing in the putting, which Medallions with character heads, surrounded
by works of pure plastic feel and live fuller Created through education,
which betrayed the study Donatello'scher work (to 1488).

In the resulting large open well past the Lamentation of Christ group in the same church (if rightly
attached to it?) follow the direction of G. Mazzoni in a stylish, larger Way. Of the younger artists
Tommaso Cozzanigo and Andrea Fusina have in the Milanese A number of smaller churches leave
grave monuments which by their restriction by refined sense of relationships and delicate decoration
of those older monuments still the far more famous monuments of their contemporaries Cristoforo
Solari and Agostino Busti Gen. Bambaja (1480-1548) deserve much preferred. Especially in the
delicacy of cured Bambaja work, even in his major works, the tomb of Gaston de Foix (now in individual
Share in the museums of Milan, Turin, London, etc.) too easily in confectioner work, the elegance
of the slender figures with their garments with numerous small parallel folds into empty mannerism,
the sweetness of the sweet heads of affectation. The artist, the younger than most sculptors
of the High Renaissance, and it survives in large part, has therefore Nor had the strength of
the mannered refinement of the early Renaissance Lombardy to the idea in the paths of the High
Renaissance in full.

The Berlin museum has several Lombard sculptures that time. A marble relief Caritas (No. 208A)
is a significant work of an artist of the facade of St. John's Chapel in the cathedral of Genoa,
a profile portrait in marble, is a characteristic work of C. Solari (No. 201), and several fragments
of painted wood altars is especially a scene from the life of St. Bernhard (No. 199) a particularly
good job of this kind

* * * * *

The plastic Venice gets the decisive impulse to a new development also of Padua, including through
the preferred by the Republic Bellano, whose activity in Venice,
we unfortunately still have no adequate idea (see p. 122 f. A site
of this its activity has the Berlin collection probably in the Portallünette
the Scuola di S. Giovanni; image.

P. 122). His influence is revealed even in the earliest works of those Lombard sculptors who
practiced in Venice not only an excellent activity, but really the sculpture in Venice for half a century
specific. This new influx Lombard sculptor begins only after the middle of the XV. Century,
when in Venice for some time a significant artistic activity in marked character of the Renaissance
had developed. A pair of Florentine sculptor, Piero di Niccolo and
Giovanni di Martino, had the Dogengrab of Tom.

       Mocenigo († 1423) built in which handicraft form Artists under the
influence of the earlier works of Donatello's and Michelozzo's show,
and another anonymous Florentine who "masters" of Pellegrinikapelle,
is the artist of the monument of Beato Pacifico Buon (1435, p. 51
f.), two in name unknown Florentine (probably identical to the aforementioned
artist Tom of the tomb.

Mocenigo) are about the same time Employees on the capitals of the Ducal Palace, and Donatello
himself in the middle of Century Padua for the choir of the Frari carved the figure of the
Baptist.
 Although the gray uniform, stained with mud and blood, of the Sun and burned
the rain and zerweicht, just next to a sacred memorial to his Bette hung. What they could: defeat
the superior power of an immense fortune, which had he as an individual do likewise. Basically
this was the test of whether he was worth the have served and bled for his country to ensure
that these youth growing up - and again art could create beauty and make new and old despise
...

       

* * * * *

All this said, the man hit in the heart of the next - in many following nights, working through
it alone and monitored by fighting.

Maybe he helped an artificial limb, for him to be a bit horrible unaesthetic his artistic taste
Offensive was contrary ... A thousand times more to his liking it would have been to have the empty
sleeve hanging down, as he used to. And he went but to Hamburg, this time accompanied only by
Luetje, checked, chose, and could be changed again change in the workshop for prostheses. He gave himself
to improve.

The owner of the workshop continued his honor in it, the artist with the famous name, made the
hard lot, to create something especially admirable. And so Rolf went outside as a fugitive for
the Look healthy and well educated man back home.

Martha was delighted child. She had long wished that he might at this last step . Decide It was
incomprehensible to her that he had waited so long with it. Why is it just This last was so heavy
she could not understand. And she was surprised, for her pleasure to find Rolfers no response,
only defense and coolness. He was sometimes to see through too hard. When all the necessary exercises,
the foreign art element move to learn how to use him, he allowed
himself to be now only by the clumsy Luetje and spurned their counsel.

       She had to bring him food to his room.

In his whole way of life drew Rolfers more and more of her and Richard back and wrapped his Wounded
heart with the old familiar shell of loneliness.

* * * * *

Richard had a look in his eyes that were quick and sharp as a bird of prey, the effect of his thoughtless
and cruel eruption on the professor covered completely.

A swirling feeling of painful pleasure raced through him.

When the fine stern countenance, which seemed more beautiful than
anyone else on earth, turned pale and his eyes closed, and the slender
tall man stood there like a Slash made an enormous pride reared up
into the boy and shouted in his heart: "That I have been able - I
- avenger of my mother and my younger shame!"

And he would have liked to just laugh out loud and laughing wildly and triumphantly. He bit the
Gritted teeth together and with them, because he was not sure if the laughter would become a sob,
and because he was shocked about the effect of his words.

Poor Avenger - even now he came sleepless nights when he rolled in
his pillow dug to hide the tears flooding that inundated his face.

He cried because he was terribly despised. As a child he had often
imagined that he would kill his father - that this skill as a dark
necessity hovering over him. And he had always imagined how it would
happen. He looked for the first Rolfers face and raise the dagger
- horrible, short, violent, beautiful ... Now he had only to poison
him injected, according to the defenseless, like a cowardly woman.
Community - wicked ...

- His passion was shaken unruly heart of infinite
compassion. It pressed him as never before, a feeling made him create.

How he would study, and oh, how he would sing! Especially the
Artist, who by his ruthless realism, the direction of the fifteenth century most sharply pronounced
and the whole Italian art of the aftermath has affected most of which creative design force,
the strange imagination of a few artists achieve WAS: Donatello just borrowed, so copied with
great fondness from antiquity. His Reliefs in the courtyard of the Palazzo Riccardi are known
as replicas of antique gems and cameos; as such can be detected but also different badges, and
even his numerous Putten representations on the pedestals of statues, on the capitals and framing,
to the Armor and his warriors are the Friesen's pulpits almost always nothing more as more
or less free transformations of ancient cupids representations on sarcophagi or cut stones. Even
in the biblical motifs Donatello's use can be ancient representations of related follow; is
in his great compositions of Lamentation of Christ, now one and now another figure ancient
sarcophagus reliefs of the action the death of Alceste or similar scenes borrowed freely.
Of course it is for Donatello and typical of the whole direction of the sculpture of the Quattrocento,
as the artist and this Replicas of the ancient his mind, imparts his style, so that as very own
inventions the artist will appear.

The place of determination for the plastic art remains essentially
the same as in the previous time: uniting the churches, still, as
an ornament the outside of the Interior as the great majority of sculptures;
occasionally comes next, as in the fourteenth century, the sculptural
decoration of church buildings and even in front of seats.

But the principal, as the spirit and intent of the order have become substantially different.
Although for The Church provides these sculptures are by no means always in church, or even religious
Meaning donated or created, the view is usually rather a purely human, to true representation
of reality addressed. The cult of the individual, from the knowledge of inherent value and the
all-round education emerged of individuality, had to democratic transformation of the Italian
community or to submit the same under Tyrants out he was in a characteristic expression of boundless
ambition, which in the art, especially in sculpture, an excellent way to his Bethätigung found.
The space for the artistic activity for the glorification of the individual personality but were
not the private house, not the palace, how should expect, only a limited Extent, the municipal
buildings, public spaces and streets: this place was or was really the church. For in the revolution
which led up to modern times, had Although selfishness and arrogance faith deeply shaken, but the
church had known their position to argue. The rebirth of all life was not to an internal reform
of religious institutions out but had the same with in their circles drawn: the popes, and competed
in the high clergy of the monumental Bethätigung their fame and employed many artists to their glory,
they have thus contributed to the strengthening of the Church in large quantity is not enough.
The clergy took not the slightest hesitation in the church to the playground for the glory of the
individual make, but this was also the church decorated and glorified. The Popes and her nephew
went ahead in the luxury of all other monuments, churches of Rome surpassed in Grandeur and
quantity of the monuments, even the grave of the richest churches tyrant. If the churches
Venice in number and splendor of the grave monuments on par with the Churches of Rome almost
can if these monuments in Florence are superior to all others with their beauty, so have but
the same in both places a peculiar character that they have the distinction the attitude to the Roman
monuments gives the advantage: they were used in both republics Monuments in the first place is
not the glorification of the individual, but the glory of the state. In Venice, the doge was
allowed only when the representative of the proud Republic, the honor of a Magnificent monument
in the church were to be part of Florence's famous secretaries of state, the distinguished benefactors
and friends of the city, even the great artists of magnificent monuments set, while the great families,
the Medici not excluded at this time with simple or at least satisfied with imageless tombs.

Because
the center to the activity of the sculptor in the fifteenth century as is in front of the church remain
the tasks of the plastic is essentially the same as before. The decoration of the facades, the
monumental pieces of equipment of the interior: altar, pulpit, Singer stands, will tabernacle,
vestry well, candelabra, choir screen, where it always is concerned, a sculptor for execution
passed. But understanding and treatment of form are brand new, not only by the inclusion of ancient
decorative forms, and above all the artists are by their predecessors her sense of style and the
monumental sense of superiority by those objects regularly architecturally design and figurative
sculptures only a rising standard of form and as a thoughtful explanation
of their Attach importance.

The grave monuments that are now gaining such extraordinary importance rare and do not cover
nearly all the walls of the churches, however, were already in the Trecento in the same place,
but the place of the Holy Sepulcher, the only exception find a pen, does the private grave, and the national
monuments, and supported by columns, is covered with a canopy of the fourteenth century sarcophagus
by the tasteful, architecture the displaced structure blends niche grave. Above the sarcophagus
on the bed of the deceased in his official robes solemnly drawn up and the top end of the
most finely articulated and delicately decorated niche maintains a relief to make with the Madonna, whose
pages adoring angels.

If so, the interior of the church to a hall of fame personal and national pride is, the external
sides are often the place for the emulation of individual championship among the sculptors of the
Quattrocento become: the walls of Or San Michele and the Campanile such as (of course, never completed)
the facade of the Duomo in Florence are the classic examples for they were already the sixteenth century
as a kind of assembly points of the championship previous big-time.

Like the sculpture of the Quattrocento its objections to the fourteenth century, or borrowed
from the ancient world, it is It also characteristic of the same,
that they in their motives and even very modest is limited and every
search for new subjects to avoid: their aim is rather straight fact,
the old to give a new form.

In the sacred artwork is hardly a significant change make against the previous designated time.
The figures of Christ and Mary, the apostles and adopted evangelists, the individual saints in the
character and forms and held, in which the times of ancient dying art for the new faith established
and how they had the Trecento, including Giotto, developed. If a Artists, especially when a
sculptor is a deviation allowed is done, it regularly from purely artistic considerations. Where,
as in Florence, the local consciousness particularly strong pronounced,
individual saints or biblical heroes presented with fondness and remodeled
as a kind of emanation of the State to national heroes, so in Florence
John Baptist, which replaced the old city of Saint S. Zenobius all,
St. George and David, and the freedom heroine Judith.

In general, the detention outweigh the traditional and religious awe so much naturalism of the
time, that the representation of the nude the holy motives remain almost banished. Where, exceptionally,
as in the Baptist and the Magdalene, the subject of the representation of the nude figure suggested,
drew the artist before it, a to create austere character figure whose pelts of animal skins or hides
from their own hair are. Only the youth figure of St. Francis. Sebastian and, very occasionally,
even the figures of Adam and Eve are used by some artists for exhibition teen beautiful body
been. The only general exception is now the strongest evidence for the chaste way of understanding
This realistic art: the formation of the naked child. The Christ child for staying in undressed
to be represented, as are the children angels. In the representation of the child, in of the art
of the time, and especially the plastic, with all the naivete and freshness of life was made,
has the Quattro Cento, under peculiar interaction of older Christian and antique models, created
their own type of exception, the putto. In an age when the Child at first stimulates the consciousness
of their own power and personality, is one of the putto peculiar mixture of Christian angels and
antique genius, a kind-hearted children goblin accompanied by a guardian angel of the people
in his life and ways to guard his tomb holds, which is a good spirit of the workshop and helping
artists everywhere adorning the side, the teasing and joking drives are harmless game, even in the
most serious motives Sacred history, in which she, albeit subordinate - in the border - in a
sense will serve to reconcile with the tragic content.

The religious and biblical themes by the allegory of the Church in Art of the Middle Ages under
the influence of scholasticism occupied an important place in the Sculpture of the Quattrocento more limited
application, while a more liberal arts education. This owes in addition to the naturalistic
conception of time, above all, to the terminal the allegory of the ancient world and continuing
the same. Among the ecclesiastical virtues: faith, Love, hope, joined to the secular virtues: strength,
prudence, moderation, and with these are occasionally found even in science equal rank. How
is this so also be borrowed from the ancient allegorical figures, like the glory, happiness,
spring etc., as a beautiful young female characters formed, identified only by their attributes
are, the monstrous forms which the scholastic Deutelsucht of Trecento art forced upon, the healthy
and plastic sense of the Quattrocento were repugnant.

The worship of the ancient world and aroused the same degree in the sculptors' interest of the
fabrics from ancient mythology and history. As the great art almost exclusively was limited to
religious duties, it was employed for the private cabaret, in which
the joy could be found in such substances Bethätigung full, in particular
plastic the pictorial decoration of small household appliances, such
as inkwells, candlesticks, sword handles, Brooches, boxes, etc., which
we today usually only in its individual parts, the so-called Plaques,
have been preserved, and also the reverse of the medals and cameos.

The motives are the most famous Roman classics, especially Ovid and Livy borrowed and, depending
on the determination of the object selected with a fine relationship: to find the sword handles
We regularly exploits of the legendary Roman hero Hercules, the work or similar representations, the
clasps Venus and Cupid, the love affairs of gods and the like

The strong naturalistic conception of the Quattrocento could from the start to the training
close of the genre in the plastic, so true to nature and even some genre-like motifs but are
well conceived, so have yet religious awe and sense a monumental development the plastic in that direction
almost completely retained. Only in the representation of the child, in the "Cherub," has the XV.
Century in Italy created a real genre figure, and just this exception is a testament to the
taste and sense of style this time, after which the top is (see p.
39) already mentioned.

One in name of unknown successor Donatello's modeled even groups of children in the rough design
and considers the peasant genre the later Dutch yield very little. Only an artist of Italy, Guido
Mazzoni in Modena, away from the major art centers, is in his realism so far that he regularly his
biblical motifs to coarse folk scenes converted from its surroundings, its famous colored Thongruppen
the worship of the child and the Pieta are obviously counterfeit the religious folk drama
of the time. Just Such exceptions make the taste and the great sense of Italian art in general
in order to appear sharper light.

So unassuming and conservative, the sculpture of the Quattrocento in the artwork is as varied
and new it is, a fourteenth-over, the material in which it carries out its statues, each accessible and
useful material in which an artistic execution was possible, by the
sculptors of the fifteenth.

Cent was used, and the choice of the same but is often taken after the execution of the task and regularly
with a fine sense of style to the Character of the substance has been made accordingly.

The most common and preferred material for nobler tasks is still the marble. Since the time of
Niccolo Pisano heavily exploited quarries of Carrara provided a Abundance of the most beautiful
marble, the cold staining, the Italian artist (probably to give by letting in hot wax) to a
warm yellow tone understood. The marble was taken as such for the phenomenon, only a few ornaments
on the robes, the halos and hair were still gold and the background of the relief, if he were not
a landscape or architectural, was regularly given a gray-blue color, richer painting of the
Marble is found only exceptionally and for decorative purposes. For those with the name of the Architecture
working the marble sculpture is often replaced by less expensive stone: the Venetian and in the
Duchy of Urbino by the fine Italian limestone (mostly from Venice to Istria related and then as pietra
d'Istria), whether in Florence by the fine-grained greenish-gray Sandstone from the Florence
area (under the name pietra serena known).

The processing of the marble, as also generally used as a replacement for entering lower Stones
was done almost exclusively through a variety of chisels. The drill was indeed applied next,
but you did not understand how in ancient times, also lead to the same length; to make such
as a deep line you just put a hole next to the other and chiseled then the small partitions on
(compare the marble statue of Michelangelo Giovannino No. 209).

By this way, the various treatment works of antiquity and the Quattrocento in doubt, keep
apart most easily. The processing of fine Limestone could not have caused the great seal and
softness of it when he broke fresh was in an advanced stage of working with knives or knife-like
instruments , Which made an extraordinary sharpness of the execution was possible (see the bust
Urbin the princess, no. 62A, and the pilasters of the Scuola di San Giovanni in Venice No. 169 and 170).
The polish that received the marble sculptures on a regular basis was not long as strong as in the fourteenth
century or late antiquity, but it was reinforced in an action by the tint, which received
the marble to the end.

New, but not as material, but the extent and in the manner of its use is the bronze. After the work
of the Byzantine artist was the Bronzethür of Andrea Pisano The first isolated test of a bronze casting
in the Great was, in the XV.

Century won the same such a meaning, and thus gradually such an artistic education, that the Bronze
apparently was considered as the grandest monuments of any kind of plastic material. Initially
limited to the casting of reliefs, the bronze sculpture was soon on statues Busts and intimate works
of art extended, and while in the first half of the century Statuettes had to be cast before
fully reach many fonts so insufficient that the Ciselierung had a prominent part in the completion of
the bronzes, the later Bronzes already thin and lightweight, with small sculptures, often à
cire perdue cast and left all unciseliert. The castings seem mostly to have been made on wax models.
The patina was because the buyer did not want to wait years, until the influence of the air Patina,
formed regularly produced artificially by the bronze with a blackish pitch-like mass was covered,
which has been polished likely. As time went from this by touching the heights, here was then
a natural patina that related to the artificial patina in the depths of her blunt blackish clay
is a fine scenic effect.

The joy of the plastic and the need to equip all public buildings
with sculptures and even to decorate the homes that had the training
of expensive bronze sculpture caused, but it was also the reason that
the artists themselves for cheap had to look around materials to meet
the needs of the less well-off also to.

Therefore we see now is a very large number of sculptures in wood and particular run in clay,
carved statues and single, exceptionally busts in Wood, richly painted and gilded, we find almost
only in special timber-rich areas, such as in the Apennine Mountains and in northern Italy, especially
on the slopes of the Alps and in the neighborhood same. Here clearly the influence of the neighboring
German art has influenced determining. Far more important, especially for the artistic development
of Italian sculpture, The sculpture is made in clay. During the fourteenth century only very
exceptionally for the clay sculptural purposes has been used to win the same at the very beginning
of the fifteenth century a great importance as visual means of representation. And not entirely
alone in the stone-poor areas, as in Lombardy or the territory of Bologna and Ferrara: straight Florence
guided the transition from the fourteenth century in the new time, a number of sculptors one
which model primarily in clay and smaller churches and chapels, private altars and lintels, with
Madonna reliefs, sometimes the entire wall decoration of churches or Grave monuments, and the
tabernacle in the manufacture of clay roads. Was undoubtedly the cheapness and speed of production
of the reason for the choice of the material so identified the Florentine sculptor soon the
advantage which the clay as the easiest means for direct and genuine expression of the artistic
intention of offering, they used same therefore regularly for the production of small sketches
or models that the Place of the drawings were executed, according
to which had worked the Trecento regularly.

Such designs in the Berlin collection include the relief of the Entombment of Christ by Verrocchio
(No. 97A) and Mary in limbo by B. da Majano (No. 589D). After the Thonmodellen in the workshop often
done by students or assistants, the marble and bronze sculptures; a division of labor, as
reflected particularly in Florence by the scope of some monuments out and formed the accumulation
of orders to the more famous artists of necessity. Such Models whose designs in marble or bronze
are still standing, are in our collection the bust of Filippo Strozzi by B. da Majano (No.
85, marble version in the Louvre), the Tondo with the worship of A. Rossellino (No. 64, marble
run in the Bargello) and the relief of the Madonna of Bellano (No. 156A, bronze finish at the Tomb
De Castro S. Servi at Padua). Various other Thonarbeiten the collection are undoubtedly also worked
as models, if the monuments for which they were intended to demonstrate not leave or ever came
to execution.

All these were painted Thonbildwerke regularly, even the most models and sketches, as the same
store for their artistic value in the studios or to other artists were awarded, the natural color
of the fired clay but the color sense of the time were reluctant. The painting was executed
in water colors, and quite naturalistic, as in a Paintings. The colors were not usually applied
directly to the clay, but is overlaid same before, as the board for paintings, with a thin layer
of chalk, because on this Colors and gilding adhere better. Since some of these sculptures,
as Straßentabernakel, bezels, Friese and others, were intended to establish in the open air, so they
gave the colors of resistance against the weather, a lacquer coating, as he (112A No.), for
example, still in the relief of the Madonna is received. Such an overlay could only briefly
the influence of water and Resist sun, so Luca della Robbia came upon the idea of ​​his Thonskulpturen
in the same to coat type as the Thongefäße with a glaze. His experiments had the best success and
found the most general applause so that circumstances linked to an industry from which a century has
long exercised in the family of that artist through several generations. Florence and the
dependent part of Florence in central Italy owes them a very great Number of altars, tabernacles,
bezels, emblems, Friesen, exceptionally free characters, fonts etc., which are mostly preserved
in place. The Thonmodell was burned slightly (For larger monuments in several pieces), then painted
and after coating with a layer of enamel for the second time put into the fire. The painting was
(and indeed from the start even at Luca itself) either entirely in color, then the colors were
on white, blue, green, yellow, purple and black limited, or the figures were, in imitation of marble,
white left, then received only the background in a blue clay reliefs and ornaments, halos and patterns
were often gilded. The framing is usually made from plastic, colored held fruit or flower wreaths
of stylish arrangement, but the finest naturalistic Implementation.
 ------------------------------------------- Also consulate and praetor, although they
were seen by the aristocratic regenerator Rome with more favorable than the eyes of of suspicious
Tribunate escaped, but not the distrust of one's own tool, which certainly means the oligarchy.
They were already in their forms, but in very sensible way limited. Sulla tied here in the
business division. At the beginning of this This period was the following order. The two consuls
were still, as formerly the epitome of the business of the highest office in general, so now
the epitome of one who highest duties, whether, for which by law special skills found were.
This latter was the case with the capital's judiciary, which the consuls deal after steadfastly
held generally not allowed, and with the then existing overseas offices: Sicily, Sardinia and
the two Spains, where the could lead Consul in command, but only rarely led. In the ordinary course
of things were thus six special skills, the two metropolitan court machinations Board and
awarded the four overseas offices in the six praetors before shows / races the two consuls
virtue of their general competence in the management of the capital's non-judicial operations and was responsible
for the military command in the continental possessions. Since this general competence was therefore
doubly occupied, the matter remained under which a consul at the disposal of government and
for ordinary times they came, therefore, complete with those eight years the highest officials,
yes plenty of. For extraordinary cases, it was also reserved and partly non-military to accumulate
skills, some of the military to perpetuate the overall deadline beyond (Prorogare). It was not
uncommon for the two properties the same praetor Court Board transmit and regularly by the consuls to be
procured capital's shops to be provided by the Stadtprätor, whereas it wise legally avoided was
to combine several commands in the same hand. This helped but the rule, that in the military
empire, there was no interregnum, that is the same, though limited by law, but after the occurrence
of the expiry date as of right, no matter how long lasted until the successor appeared and
took off the previous command, or, equivalently, that the commanding Consul or praetor of
the end of his term, when the successor did not appear to consul Instead of continuing to act or was
praetor and had to. The influence of the Senate on this allocation was that it depended observanzmäßig
of him, either exercise the rule, so the six Praetors the six special skills raffle, the consuls
and the mainland, can not get to court business, or to order any deviation from it, assign as
the consul is a particularly important moment overseas command or an extraordinary military and judicial Commission,
as the fleet command or a major criminal investigation, to include among the powers to be distributed
and to have it by becoming more necessary cumulations and deadline extensions - where only the
way of staking out every time consular and praetorian respectively Skills, not the name of the entering
of the individual officers of the Senate state, the latter rather consistently by agreement of
the competing officials or was done by drawing lots. The citizenry had been caused in the earlier
period well, the in the failure to replace actual extension of the command given by special to regularize
municipal decision, however, this was more the spirit than the letter of the Constitutionally
required, and soon after took up the citizenship not elaborate here. Over of the seventh century,
were now gradually to the existing six special skills six others added, the five new government
of Macedonia, Africa, Asia, Narbo and Cilicia, and the organization leadership in the Commission's
standing trial for extortion. With more and more joined the expanding sphere of influence of
the Roman government also always frequently the case that the top military officers for extraordinary
or procedural Commissions have been used. Nevertheless, the highest number of full Officials
not increased, and so it came to eight per year to be appointed officials of all other apart,
at least twelve per year to fill special skills. Course was It is not accidental that this deficit
is not creating new Prätorenstellen once and for all covered. The letter of the Constitution
should be adopted in the year for all top officials Year are appointed by the citizens, after
the new order or rather disorder, according to which the resulting gaps were filled mainly by extension
of the deadline and the law one years acting officials typically by the Senate for a second year
gain weight, after being the same was denied but also occupied the most important and lucrative
posts in state not the citizens, but from an election by the citizenry educated competitors list
the Senate. Usual, it was here, because in these places as the overseas commands the most lucrative
were sought, particularly, those officials who took office either legally or at least effectively
in the capital tied, so the two leaders of the urban Jurisdiction, and often the consuls after
their year of office an overseas transfer command, which was consistent with the nature of the prorogation,
since the authority of the in Rome and of acting in the province of top officials probably otherwise
related, not really but State law was a qualitatively different. These relations took place against
Sulla, and they were his new order based. The same basic idea was to completely divorce the political
violence, which in the civil and the military, which non-citizens in the districts reigned, and the continuous
extension of the duration of the highest office of one year on two, the former of which the
civil, the second devoted to military operations was. Spatially, the civil and the military
force, however long ago by the Constitution divorced, and ended at the Pomerium those where
it started, but still was the same man, the highest political and military power, the highest
in his hand combined. In future, the consul and praetor with council and the citizens negotiate
the proconsul propraetor and command the army, but that any military, that any political Activity
must be cut by law. This initially led to the political separation of the norditalischen landscape
of the real Italy. So far, the same well in a Unlike national standing, so far mainly from northern
Italy Ligurian and Celts, Central and southern Italy was inhabited by Italians, but was politically and
administratively the entire continental territory of the Roman state from the Strait to the
Alps with the inclusion the Illyrian possessions, citizens, and Latin Nichtitalikergemeinden without
distinction, in the ordinary course of things under the administration of the highest in Rome
just acting Officials, such as stretching, too, the colonial foundations through this whole area.
After Sulla's order was the real Italy, whose northern border at the same time instead of Aesis
the Rubicon became, as one now without the exception of Roman citizens settled area, the regular Roman
authorities subordinate to and that no regular troops in that area and no Commander stood,
one of the fundamental principles of Roman constitutional law; the Gaul on this side the Alps,
however, because of the resistance in the ongoing invasions of the Alpine peoples a command could
not be spared, was modeled on the older overseas Commands constituted as a separate government of
^ 10 By now, finally, the annual number of was raised to be appointed praetors six to eight, to
put the new rules meaning that the ten highest officials to be appointed each year during
their first year of office as consuls or praetors the capital's shops - the two consuls of the
government and administration, two of the praetors the civil justice system, the remaining
six of the reorganized Criminal Justice - were dedicated, during her second year as pro-consuls
or propraetors the command in one of the ten governorships: Sicily, Sardinia, both Spain, Macedonia,
Asia, Africa, Narbo, Cilicia and the Italians took over Gaul. The already mentioned Increase of Quästorenzahl
by Sulla at twenty is also in this context ^ 11 --------------------------------- ^ 10 For this
assumption there is no other evidence except that the Italic Gaul a province in the sense where the
word a closed and renewed annually by a governor managed Sprengel means in the older Times
as decidedly not like but in Caesar's is one (see Licinius. p. 39: Data erat et Sulla provincia
Gallia Cisalpine). Not much different with the Advancement of the border, we know that once the
Aesis, in Caesar's time the Rubicon, the Gaul from Italy, retired but not when the advance took
place. It has indeed the fact Marcus Terentius Varro Lucullus that as propraetor in the district
between Aesis and Rubicon undertook a boundary adjustment (Orelli, 570) concluded that the same
at least in the years after must have been Lucullus' praetor 679 (75) or county, on Italian soil
because of Propraetor have nothing to do. However, only within the Pomerium hear every prorogierte
Empire of itself to, in Italy, however, even after Sulla's not such an order regularly present, but
allowed, and is an outstanding held by Lucullus Office but was in any case. We can also demonstrate
how and when a Lucullus such in this area has clothed. He has just before the reorganization
Sullan 672 (82) as commanding officer just working here and probably ebenwie Pompey equipped
with propraetors violence by Sulla, and in this capacity, he is 672 (82) or 673 (81) (see App.
1, 95) have regulated the frontier in question. It follows from this inscription So for the
legal status of Northern Italy over anything, and least for the time after Sulla's dictatorship.
However, it is a remarkable hint that the Roman Sulla Pomerium observed on (Sen. Dial 10,
14;. Dio Cass. 43, 50), which according to Roman law, only state which was allowed and the
not the kingdom, but the city, ie the border Italic had advanced. ^ 11 As to Sicily two, or in
any other province a treasurer, went also the two urban and two consuls in warfare and the
four Deputy Flottenquästoren remained so for this nineteen officers were required annually. The
twentieth Quästorenkompetenz can not be proven. -------------------------------- First hereby
was to replace the existing untidy and possible to all poor Maneuvers and intrigues distribution
offices inviting a clear and strict rule set, then but also the excesses of the officials prevent
possible violence and the influence the highest government authority to increase substantially. Under
the previous order was in the Rich legally only distinction the city that surrounded the city
wall, and the landscape outside the Pomerium, the new order was to replace the city's new, from
now on as eternal peace to the regular command extracted from Italy ^ 12 and against him over
the continental and overseas, appearing vice versa is required under military commanders from
now of so-called provinces. Under the previous order, the same man was very often two, often
more years in office remained the same, the new order limited the capital's Offices such as
the governor post on quite a year, and the special available that each Governor within thirty
days after the successor had arrived in his diocese, same had to leave without fail, shows
very clearly, especially when boosting the mentioned earlier ban on immediate re-election of
the past officers to the same or another people together takes office, what was the tendency of
these institutions: it was the rehearsing old maxim whereby once the Senate had made subservient
to the monarchy that the restriction of the competence of the Magistracy to democracy, the
aftermath of the oligarchy benefit coming. Under the previous order had Gaius Marius also as head
of the Senate and held office as a senior commander of the State, if it is only his own ineptitude
attribute, that it failed him, by means of this dual role of violence, the oligarchy to fall,
it seemed now seen to it that not a wiser successor to the same lever better use. Under the
previous order had also appointed directly by the people Officials have a military position can,
however, this remained only the Sullan those officials before the Senate confirmed the extension
by the official deadline in their authority. Although this office extension was now standing,
yet it was the auspices and the name, by the constitutional formulation as well as further extraordinary
Extension of the deadline deals. It was not indifferent. The consul or the praetor could only the
citizenship of his duties shock, the proconsul and the propraetor appointed and dismissed the
Senate, so that by this decision, the entire military force, but since the last everything depended,
at least by the Senate was formally dependent. --------------------------------------------------
^ 12 The Confederation Italic is much older, but she is not a federation of states, such as the
Sullan Italy, a Roman Empire in the uniformly demarcated territory. --------------------------------------------------
- That, finally, the highest of all offices that Censorship, not formally lifted, but was eliminated
in the same way as the former dictatorship, was already noticed. Virtually the same could
possibly do without. For completion Senate was provided elsewhere. Since Italy was in fact tax
exempt and the army significantly was created by advertising, had the list of tax and service agents
in the Mainly lost its meaning, and when in the Knight list and the list of voters Disorder
tear, so you might not see just do not like. So there remained only the current Financial
transactions that had already been administered the consuls, when, as occurred frequently,
election was stayed by the censors, and now as part of their regular duties took over. Against
the substantial profit that the censors of the Magistracy in its highest Tip was withdrawn,
was not considered and did the absolute rule of the Supreme Government College absolutely no record
that, to the ambition of the now more numerous senators to To satisfy the number of pontiffs and the
augurs of nine, the keepers of the oracle ten to every fifteen, the Feast of the men was increased
from three to seven. In the financial sector stood, under the current constitution, the decisive
voice in the Senate, it acted here is therefore to restore sound administration. Sulla had initially
found to no small need of money, which were brought from Asia Minor sums for the wages of many and
always increasing army soon spent. Even after the victory at the Colline gate had the Senate,
as the Treasury had been abducted to Praeneste, decide to have Notschritten. Several building sites in the capital
and individual Pieces of the Campanian domain were offered for sale, the clientele of kings,
and the liberated bundesgenössischen Communities as set out in ordinary contribution, some of them
their land and their duties collected elsewhere for the same money granted new privileges. However,
the during the transfer of corpus Praeneste rest of the Treasury of passing 4 million crowns, Soon
the early auctions and other extraordinary resources helped the instantaneous From embarrassment.
For the future, but was caused less by the Asian tax reform, preferably in the taxpayer won and
the Treasury probably just did not lose, as by the recovery of the Campanian domain, now what
was still Aenaria together, and especially by the abolition of the grain distribution, since Gaius Gracchus
as a cancer had sapped the Roman finances. Contrast, the judiciary was reformed significantly, partly
for political reasons and partly to the current very weak and inconsistent Prozeßlegislation bring
greater uniformity and usability. Under the previous order were the processes for decision
in part to the citizens, partly to jurors. The courts, in which all the citizens to challenge
the ruling of the Magistrate ruled out, were up in the hands of Sulla in the first row of the People's Tribune,
the second aediles, by all the processes by which an officer or agent of the municipality
for its Management was held accountable liked it to life and person or fines Go by the tribunes,
all other processes in which ultimately the people voted, tried by the curule or plebeian aediles
in the first instance, directed at second were. Sulla has tribunician accountability process,
if not downright abolished, however, the legislators ebenwie initiative of the Tribune, prior
consent of the the Senate and probably the subject ädilizischen criminal trial in a similar
way limited. However, he extended the competence of juries. There was a time dual procedure before
a jury. The ordinary, which was applicable to all We believe that a criminal or civil action
to be his own cases, except the immediately directed against the state's crime was, is that one
of the two instructed all municipal court matters and men appointed by him juror decided on the basis of this
instruction. The extraordinary jury trial occurred in single major civil or criminal cases,
rather than on account of which, by special laws of the individual jurors, a separate Geschworenenhof
had been ordered. Such were some the Special Court constituted for individual cases authorities,
partly related to Kommissionalgerichtshöfe, as for extortion, for sorcery and murder, perhaps for electoral
bribery and other crimes in the course of the seventh century had been set down, partly at last
the two courtyards of the ten men for the freedom and the Hundred and the Hundred-and shorter
men for the inheritance process, including that of the ownership dispute at all, used the lance
shaft Community Court (hasta) called. The Zehnmännerhof (decemviri litibus iudicandis) was an ancient
Institution for the Protection of the plebeians against their masters. Time and cause the formation
Court of the shaft are obscure, but probably about the same as in his much like the above mentioned crime
commissions. The management of that different Courts was determined differently in the various
court orders, so were the extortion court a praetor, the court been a murder in the aediles specially
appointed board of directors, the Stem from what has been taken several court Quaestors directors
before. The jury were at least for the ordinary and the extraordinary procedure in conformity
with the Gracchan order from the non-senatorial men taken from Ritter census, the selection
was generally to the magistrates, the court had the line, but in such a way that with the commencement
of their duties, the jury list had a set up once and for all and then the individual jurors from
college this not by free choice of the magistrate, but was formed by solution and by rejection
of the parties. received from the People's choice only ten men for the freedom of process out.
Sulla's reforms were mainly threefold Article One time he increased the number of jury courts
very considerably. It was later special jury commissions for extortion, to murder with the inclusion
of arson and false witness, for electoral bribery, treason, and also for any dishonor of the
Roman Name, for the most serious fraud cases: Testament and coins, for adultery, for the serious
defamation, including Realinjurien and disturbance of domestic peace, and perhaps for embezzlement
of public money for usury and other crimes, and at least most of these farms are found either
by Sulla or launched and he was provided with a special on crime and criminal procedure code.
By the way, was allows the government free to vorkommendenfalls for certain groups of special
crimes courts to order. Episode as a result the people's courts were abolished in substance,
namely the treason trials of the new high treason Commission rejected, the ordinary jury trial
significantly limited by it were removed from the heavier counterfeiting and insults. What Second, the overall
direction of the courts work, she stood, was as mentioned already, for now directing the jury
on six farms praetors negotiable, even for those The most unused Commission for murder, a number
of other conductors were added. In third place was taken by the jury instead of the Gracchi Ritter again
the senators. The political purpose of these provisions, the former co-regency to make the knight
an end, is clear as day, but neither can ignore it, that the same were not merely political Tendenzmaßregeln,
but here the first attempt was made, the sized since the fighting more and more overgrown Roman
criminal case and criminal law wiederaufzuhelfen.
 It makes
me bitter and reckless. During the early Renaissance
their pieces regularly something was under life size, in the High Renaissance of the colossal Scale
almost normally, what the sculpture is of interest by the lack of individual figures had lost target,
the overwhelming effect of the colossal recouped be. Another means for the same purpose, the
exploration and lifting of opposites, is actually one of the guiding principles for the sculpture
of the Renaissance, not only the differences in gender and age, the typical design, the artists
seek to but in the individual figure of the opposition between body and head, and especially
between the two sides of the body. The "contra-posto": the emergence of one side of the body against
the other, the sharp emphasis between leg and leg and a corresponding contrast in the movement
of both arms, is the most sculptors of the High Renaissance, a much more important Act as the study
of nature.

The direction of the great and beautiful in the art of the Cinquecento was a natural Reaction
against the one-sided emphasis on the real and pleasing in the art of the Quattrocento; It was also especially
in sculpture, funded by the renewed and completely changed Studies of ancient times, the inner drive,
from which it emerged is, however, in the spiritual Flow of time, which at the end of the XV. Century
in Florence the reformatory effort Savonarola's caused, and later passed into other channels,
for the popes themselves Counter-Reformation was designed. The real, the purely human damn
it in life as in art, which it only as a means of promoting religious and ecclesiastical purposes,
in broadest sense, would be valid, so the conscious shift away from nature.
 And an inner hot tears rose in him at the thought that he never the rights, the creative
hand, the artist's hand will see the beloved master's keep, may draw. He first felt the bitterness
of the irretrievable, death, destruction. She felt at this one man who had created the beautiful
and Never again would create. Slowly formed in him the new - the understanding and Want: to be
a heritage ... His student, - oh, yes - The professor had said that have nothing to do with feelings
... His son - the idea he was always out of the way gone. Before the concept of the father
was the iron grid of contempt. And now worked his will to uproot it from the grounds of his
heart. And as in fairy tales, it went to - What separates melted before his firm grip. -

God, God! He was not only the students of the professor - he was his
son ...!

Part of whose essence, whose mind had to be alive in him! He did not feel his gift of Looking,
the capabilities of the visual hand from the head to the fingertips - and swelled often not
all his soul, the young form of an outbreak of cheering up high when he the beloved hence, ultimately
felt used ...

As a young wine was his love, spicy and bitter and full of sparkling freshness and would have liked
all band dispersed, and roaring into space poured. And yet again so shy shamefacedly, that they
never the expression of all these sources, and pushing and all the golden bliss would have found. A love
that knew no affection for them, nor sought, who no longer resided with the surface of things,
but equally penetrated into the core the personality of the other. A volatile, a very small token
of affection, the Confidence, and she lived for days in happy silence of the few. Rare and
sought own way of sacrifice.

Franz Rolfers probably saw the conversion. With mixed feelings. Wondered at times: Is it not
too late? If a trust between old and young, between the death and the nascent not impossible for all?
Because a grudge he was still in the heart since that terrible Evening at the palace lawn in
front of the foal. He felt since the enmity of the one who pushed back is that the youth should leave
the field. He had wanted to beat the boy, now was the to become victorious over him. He forgave
him so quickly. Let it gently only in itself . Come Reluctantly gave him the happiness of the
shy courtship. Sometimes he was flirty, such as women opposite - a quarter of an hour long warm,
good, open, then pulled back cool for all days back. Its deadly fight went back and forth,
long time.

The lilac bloomed even in blue waves on the long crease behind the garden and its scents beat with
sweet vapors up to the porch and in the rooms of the Holstein country house. The spring had been
prudent and made up for with a single blow, which he missed for weeks had. Even between the wet,
crumbling walls of the old draw well sprouted fine Farnkräutlein green and clothed with delicate
beauty of its dark depths. In the bushes sang and sounded a hundred different bird calls. Light
green, flat hands, spread the tulip tree by its broad branches, and the gnarled old apple trees
were only magnificent structure of red rose flower garlands durchsummt, bees and bumblebees.
From the total grass fire burned the candles their tulips and blue forget-me-foam poured over
it. Over the moor grasses waved silver and red flowering sorrel. The Foliage of the birches was
already getting dark, but bright green of the beech forest stand in the distance. And white
round summer clouds floated through the sky, a mild, breezy wind swayed and flickered through all
the floating, moving branches and leaves, and blew through the flowering grass waves that her
on the chill Erten thousands of fine colors and soft lines, waved
and waved. When you feel stronger we will look at the clothes together. In this sense: in the naturalistic Through
education, study and knowledge of the organism, on the other hand also in the psychological Depression and
in the character description is the real creator of the Renaissance sculpture Donatello (Donato
di Niccolo di Betto Bardi 1386-1466). What up to characterize the plastic of the fifteenth century
it was said, is therefore in the fullest extent and in the first place for him. Donatello we are told
that he was restless as a youth in Rome with his older friends Brunellesco the ancient remains
have searched and studied for them. A careful study of his Works confirmed this in full measure:
no other artist has his motives so after ancient Looking for role models and as far as was humanly
possible, so closely connected to the same, such as Donatello, but on the other hand, has processed
no other artist so odd, these studies hardly a second of the ancient world is in its full view so far,
just like it. Donatello is a sculptor - and he's in contrast to many of his contemporaries, only
dedicated to the plastic - strict and ruthless nature study, but without the depression of negligible
in the nature of the intellectual content of the artwork. Body and mind are him, as in nature, and
inseparable from each other due, but the body it is the vessel for the mind, which he makes
precisely so true to nature, the spirit is alive in order to and convincing to express. His knowledge
of the human body goes on thorough studies of the nude back by him, but this, in contrast to
Michelangelo, the naivete of the conception of the phenomenon, since it still keeps away from
dissection. In the seriousness of his naturalistic view, he goes so far that his attire, the He
laid special care, not an end in itself (for example, still with Nanni di Banco, where They
wrapped the body) are still predominantly pictorial means of expression, but rather he seeks
primarily the body including play and to raise this. The representation of the Body itself is
in him no longer a naive representation of the surface, but they based on the safe handling
of the skeleton. It is completely dominated the other hand by the idea of ​​the artwork, by
the character, which the artists of the single figure to seeks to give, or by the expression
of events, which he in the group or play narrative relief endeavors. The sacred images, which
he almost unchanged of the older art does, he creates innovative in that it he carried his naturalism
simply human characters and Begebnissen transforms; other hand, he lifts it over beyond the
ordinary by the size of its view of the vast inner excitement in the statues and busts as painfully
restrained force is evident in his compositions strongest bursts of passion expressed. His characters
lives (after Rumohr's dictum the other the artist is just very little), a "jerking motion hold,"
but "a some invisible line surrounds spiral, before which his instinct for outreach effort always
given priority in the retreats. " In his quest, the character of the personality or to show
a type in the strongest light, or the situation of a historical motif sharpen the extreme, the
artist also shy away from the ugly, and before the terrible not return, but he seldom falls into
this hype. Precisely because his model is become of such enormous influence, even decisive for
the development of the Renaissance, during the whole of the fifteenth century under his influence is.

[Figure: Donatello's St.. George in the Museo Nazionale at Florence.]

Donatello was lucky from the start used to be monumental tasks. Only twenty years old, he received
the Order in 1406, two small marble statues of young to produce a
prophet to the northern portal of the cathedral, after he passed the
test with success had he been the major tasks of the Fabric, and soon
also to the similar The object of the ornamentation of Or San Michele
used.

When he in 1408 the Prophet statuettes delivers, he was awarded the
contract to the marble statue of David (now in the Bargello), and
yet in the same year was the colossal statue of the seated John for
the same with me ordered (now in the choir).

The completion of this figure (1415) ran through new and important Orders in the length: 1412
the artist also worked for the cathedral, the Statue of Joshua (under the false name of Poggio Bracciolini
now in the Cathedral) and already some Years earlier was the carved wood crucifix in Sat Croce,
and until 1416 The artist completed three large marble statues for the niches of Or San Michele,
Peter (?), Mark, and finally the famous George. Donatello had scarcely delivered this work, is
such back pages of the cathedral-like Opera, a new mission: the statues for the Niches in the
Campanile. In 1416 John was the statue was commissioned, then (to 1426), the prophet Habakkuk,
Jeremiah, and the King David, and at the same time, the artist together with the controlled by
it, Giovanni Rosso Abraham with Isaac, and Joshua (1421). Miss her works, for which the customer
is no longer known as the marble statues of the young John in the Bargello and the younger and
more perfect in Casa Martelli, and The bronze statue of St. Ludwig inside the main portal from
Sat Croce.

[Figure: 39a. Marble relief of Christ Stäupung by Donatello.]

In this most colossal statuary considerable number of works that a period of fill in two decades,
is a rich development of the artist decided. In the earliest time that the colossal figure of John
the Evangelist and Saint. Georg most brilliantly represented, is the preponderant desire for formal
beauty: beautiful regular features, noble calm demeanor and motives of the great simple folds
characterize all of these figures, behavior whose inner life seems
like glowing coals under the ashes.

With the statues Campanile for the quest begins for individual recovery,
in the "Zuccone" most is driven, the figures are worked in perspective
for the high court, and the heads are portraits of contemporaries,
are listed in the unvarnished truth, the drapery shows deep folds
of a picturesque effect, and the conviction is a stepping out of that
modest Rest of the previous time characteristic; for single figures,
this movement even pronounced excesses, which the artist releasing
the legs passes.

The gradual progress in the understanding of nature lies in the finer and more individual recovery
By forming the body, in the expressions of anatomical studies, by the formation of the extremities
and in the emphasis of the joints.

The Berlin collection has a bronze statue, half life size, the Baptist in maturity representing
(No. 38) in attitude, dress and through education is a good characteristic Example of Donatello's
statues of this last-mentioned group. can, in fact, their Emergence of probability in the 1423 set.

[Image:
699th Stäupung Christ of Donatello.]

Donatello was the accumulation of large orders since the beginning of the twenties to been forced to
make use of students and assistants to participate, what was, at constant load was with new
works, the necessary habit. But he was to some extent also through the nature of the orders
causes, because he lacked the experience in casting and Ciselieren. Had he been used to perform various
statues at the Campanile Giovanni Rossi, he was soon afterwards for several more extensive tasks with
the architect and Sculptor Michelozzo related, a community which
by almost a decade through for most of the work of the artist and
his determination was essential architectural sense helped purify.

Donatello's share of these monuments is not very likely significantly and their influence on the
development of the art of the Quattrocento is a have been lower. As far as we do not have an
opinion about it (the monument Aragazzi in Montepulciano is only the individual parts for, not
known in its structure), namely, the three are common in this Work
emerged grave monuments have been determined by local factors in their
construction: the monument of Pope John XXIII. in the Baptistery in
Florence (c. 1424-1427 in the works) by The arrangement between two
pillars of the mighty wall, and the tomb of Cardinal Brancacci in
S. Angelo a Nilo at Naples by the inspiration from the traditional
type of the Trecento Neapolitan grave monuments (like the tomb in
the cathedral at Montepulciano Aragazzi to 1427 and Worked in 1428).

Donatello may, at least for the monuments in Florence and Naples,
the draft charge of the figurative part, in the execution can be only
of the great Michelozzo cast in bronze grave figure of the Pope, and
the small relief of the Assumption of the sarcophagus of the tomb
in Naples for Donatello certainly benefit from them, everything Other
is here, as in the 1428 order, not particularly original marble sarcophagus
of Giovanni de 'Medici in the sacristy of S. Lorenzo and the Thomas
niche at Or San Michele, by Michelozzo and subordinate assistants,
as Portigiani executed.

[Figure: 39 Marble relief of the Madonna by Donatello.]

[Figure: 42 Marble relief of the Madonna by Donatello's pupil.]

In that Ascension relief, while in the famous bronze relief of the dance Salome at Quercia's baptismal
font in San Giovanni at Siena (1427; similar relief in marble in the museum at Lille) Donatello first
had his extraordinary talent for composition figure-rich descriptions in order, perspective,
relief style and especially in the dramatic show recovery of the creative. Also, these works (especially
the bronze statuettes at the same well) how different their relationship to the same time
be classified Monuments (the large painted stone relief of the Annunciation in Sat Croce, the angel
with the body Christ and the small stucco relief of the Madonna with saints and angels playing
in the S. Kensington Museum excellent) by unusual sense of beauty in the types as in the attitude
and Drapery, which is paired with a high gravity. The Berlin Museum has various Works that bear
the characteristics of this period, primarily Madonna reliefs. Personal delivery is made after
the masterly treatment, the large marble relief of the Madonna Casa Pazzi (No. 39), probably
the earliest of these works. A second marble relief (No. 42) Palazzo Orlandini, in contrast, shows
the execution of the hand of a student. The same applies a Thonrelief (No. 43), the replica of
a student after a lost, even in plaques (No. 700) received Donatello's composition from this
period. More importantly a marble relief of Christ Stäupung (39a), the composition of a premonition
of the known Fresco by Sebastiano del Piombo, and comes close in the treatment of the nude even
Michelangelo.

In 1432 Donatello was called from a child cause to Rome.

The Stay here, which extends until the following year was, of determining
importance for its development.

After the leaves (only certified) stay in Rome, a particularly Energetic study of the ancient
track in his works, of course, expresses the same less in the form as in the motifs. Thus
in the large tabernacle in St. Peter to Rome, which it on the spot next to a grave stone in
Araceli and a relief of keys (Now in the South Kensington Museum) pointed out, the relief of the Lamentation
of Christ in close connection composed of Roman sarcophagus representations. According to the ancient
spirits, he makes his putt order with which he now animates his compositions in abundance. Does
this have to be That tabernacle, so comes the new concept even further with the completion of the
(since 1428) back into communion with Michelozzo and Portigiani executed reliefs with dancing angels
on the outside of the cathedral pulpit at Prato advantage. Above all it is but to bear in the
similar motifs on the famous Florentine pulpit (1433-1440), the bronze figure of Amor, which
he directly access and emulation with antiquity for Cosimo de 'Medici modeled, and in the stone
medallions of Mediceerpalastes he cameos in to Cosimo's Possession was run and all working,
probably after the first few years of his Return from Rome emerged. A characteristic example
of Donatello in this Time to ancient motifs own vivid compositions has designed, the Berlin Museum
in a small bronze relief with putti playing (No. 698) exhibit.

[Figure: 39A. Thonrelief painted the Madonna by Donatello.]

goes to the first time after returning from Rome, probably a second executed for Cosimo Bronze
statue of David in the Bargello back, the first statue of the Renaissance, in which a naked youthful
freshness and body similar in make peace, as in the heyday of Greek art is shown. By the same patron
Donatello received at this time also commissioned to decorate the sacristy of San Lorenzo, his friend
Brunellesco had just completed. The bust of St. Lorenz, four large medallions with rich compositions
at the dome, the four Evangelists in the spandrels, two reliefs, each with two single saints,
and the two Bronzethüren are of Donatello's hand and were probably all still completed before his
departure for Padua.

[Figure: 38A. Painted Thonbüste of John of Donatello.]

In preparing the models for his bronze work, when the sketches of the works, which assistants
had exported, Donatello get pleasure from working in clay, which he quickly of the hand was,
his thoughts full freshness expressing and rich painting, how he loved her, made it possible. In
the sacristy of San Lorenzo, he led all the decorations so the ceilings and walls made of clay.
At the same time he modeled the same material in a series of larger Madonna reliefs and busts.
The Berlin collection has one of the Madonna reliefs, than-life figures who, by their almost
perfectly preserved and beautiful painting Gold are excellent (No. 39A). Also, the Museum
of the painted Thonbüste adolescent John (No. 38A), a famous busts
of Uzzano in the Bargello and unknown woman in the South Kensington
Museum in conception and treatment closely related work exhibit.

The stucco relief No. 46 (probably a smaller replica of the time)
has a the other madonna felt especially great compositions of the
period of the artist, by which the Louvre Museum and the Kensington
also have some excellent examples.

[Figure: 46 Stucco relief of the Madonna by Donatello.]

All this as the beginning of the forties resulting works, which probably also the curious Bronze
is reckoned among the group of Judith in the Loggia de 'Lanzi at Florence, Donatello shows at the
height of the dramatic view in full control and freedom of artistic Embodiment of that inner excitement,
which in the single figure so powerful and yet so modest expresses it, they show it at the
same time in formal education through the form as a full Champion,
brings his skills with fine restraint and noble taste advantage.

The Works of that period and the following years, they are closely
related call, well the culmination of the art of Donatello and the
entire early Renaissance.

[Photo: equestrian statue of Gattamelata by Donatello in Padua.]

In 1443 Donatello was called to a task that, as for himself, so also for the development of Renaissance
art, a new major step of all: the bronze Equestrian statue of the deceased in Padua Venetian Condottiere
Gattamelata to its execution the artist moved to Padua in 1444. Nearly a decade passed over
this work, draws on their breaks Donatello including the rich bronze jewelry for the high
altar of Santo: the crucifix and five statues, symbols of the Evangelists, four reliefs with
miracles of St.. Antonius and twelve panels with angels, finally a major Grablegungsrelief in
clay. The Equestrian statue is not only as the first work of this kind since the ancient times
of epoch-making Significance, but in itself the truth of life in horse and rider, by the way
the Artists in the whole shape of the individual and make Gattamelata
the generals, the Battle Handlebar has presented as such, one of the
greatest monuments of all time.

Among the bronzes of the high altar, which most often through the
collaboration of some very minor Assistants are affected more or less
belong, but some of the statues, including the crucifix, and the large
burial, and many figures of the four reliefs with the wonders of St.
Anthony, Donatello's best performances, the latter particularly through
the dramatic Design of the difficult subjects, the clear grouping
of the numerous characters, the skillful perspective arrangement in
space, the multiplicity of forms and of its formation.

Through this activity in Padua Donatello not only the plastic, but (by his Influence on Mantegna), the
painting in northern Italy driven in new directions.

The Berlin collection has little from this period of his stay in Padua, in addition to the Bronze
relief of the Stäupung Christ (No. 699) a greater Donatello's bronze work: by their unvarnished
truth surprising bust of the art-loving Margrave Ludwig III. of Mantua (No. 40), which probably,
like a similar bust of the same man who owned created by ME André in Paris, as preliminary work
for an equestrian statue of the prince, as Donatello was the year
1450/51 busy for him in Mantua.

To the execution of such Monument (on the news but are not documented
received), it is certainly well little bit long, like at the equestrian
monument of Borso d'Este, which the artist simultaneously Order was
given for Modena.

[Illustration: Bronze Relief at the high altar in the Santo in Padua by Donatello.]

Back in Florence, Donatello, despite its age, a number of important Works created when he also had
to leave their execution now mostly students. First He went (1457) to the execution of a task that
he has been made decades earlier was: the bronze statue of John the Baptist for the baptistery
of the cathedral of Siena, probably the greatest, although the sharpest among the numerous forms
of this saint, which we of his hand . Thanks About the same time the related wood statue of St.
arose. Jerome in the Pinacoteca to Faenza. The delicious Thonskizze an altar with the Stäupung
and crucifixion of Christ at the Kensington Museum, and a small related sketch of the Crucifixion,
the damaged only by Stuck replica in the museum (No. 41) is obtained, appear like preparatory work on
the last great act of his life to the two bronze pulpits, which Donatello for Cosimo said in San Lorenzo.
From the hand of his pupil Bertoldo and Bellano in little happier As completed and ciseliert,
together with crude and clumsy interventions only in later time but most of these compositions from
the Passion of Christ are excellent, both by the pictorial representation of the very many figures
scenes, such as the dramatic narrative deep passions aroused, that the gay themes from the lives
of children in the Fries fortunate ways contrast. Of course, betraying the restless drapery,
the triangular folds, like wrinkled paper appear, and the flat relief
treatment (the "baked"

Relief) the manner to increase custom, in the modeling clay to work with.

* * * * *

[Figure: 40 Bronze bust of Lodovico III. Gonzaga by Donatello.]

As Donatello in 1466 at the age of 80 years died, he had designed the sculpture of Italy from
scratch and, indirectly, to influence the development of painting practice. The incorruptible
Ernst nature of his studies, his incisive, honest characteristics,
his talent for dramatic Description, its type of plastic treatment
had the most peers had acted especially provisions to all young artists.

That she almost everyone in their way follows that every new and created
large, is not the slightest triumph of art direction Donatello.

[Figure: 49 Madonna relief by Donatello.]

Under his successors Donatello's employees are usually of lesser talent, they imitate their model
too often after the outward appearance, they exaggerate the point of caricature. This is especially
true of some of us by name not known sculptors who appear to in the thirties and forties to
Donatello in relationship grew, and the us yet including through a series of Madonna reliefs known.
The oldest of these artists, regularly worked in marble (the same as his teacher), is particularly
strong caricature conspicuous and clumsy in the proportions of his figures, the deterrent ugly
types . Show The great relief of the Madonna in the Medici Chapel of S. Croce has a particularly
characteristic Work, the other Madonna at the Kensington Museum, and in our collection (No. 44, and the
stucco relief No. 45, are the original marble-André in Paris in ME) closely related. Perhaps also
the great relief of the Madonna on a side portal of the cathedral in Siena from his hand. Interest
offers this artist only in that almost all his works more or less faithful replicas Donatello's
compositions seem to be that we are not usually receive. Probably this unknown is the assistant,
the Donatello's mythological compositions in the courtyard of the Palazzo. Medici said in marble.
A younger and went Terer successor related direction, the Madonna
reliefs are characteristically executed in clay, the artist who created
the Madonna modeled in a tabernacle in the Via Pietra Piana, Florence.
is by his hand in the Berlin collection, perhaps the Thonrelief of
the Madonna and Child standing (No. 50); used is the lesser relief
of the Madonna (No. 54) and in particular the significant Adoration
of the Child (No. 47).

       

[Figure: 60A. Madonna relief by Donatello's a successor.]

Independent than they are the former employees Donatello's, the first since 1421 to the Statues
of the Campanile next to and together with active Donatello Giovanni di Bartolo, called Rosso (d.
after 1451). While the artists in these statues directly to simultaneous Donatello's work inspired,
he is in his tomb in Verona Brenzoni strange, but in the shape even more strongly influenced
by the fourteenth century.

[Figure: 59 Stucco relief of the Madonna with angels of Ag. di Duccio.]

Michelozzo Michelozzi (1391-1472), foremost architect, but due to its high technical Talent
of the Florentine sculptors in particular used for implementation of their Erzgüsse, Donatello has
also since the beginning of the twenties until his long-standing Distance from Florence worked.
 The owls hate cats by nature, because they
live on mice, like herself, which was still on top of that boy who Rosaurus could be dangerous.

Startled,
hastened away from the poor cat, the owl had given him a deep wound
on the right Leg and taught them hurt.

The rain poured down and was Rosaurus open field, - he felt very unhappy. What had his dreams of
freedom more? he, who had a king of the animals want to be, what was he now? A humbled wet
kitten, without shelter, without food that could no longer find their way home. Ah! He might
well be very far from home, as he was tired! He stretched the wet Grass and his pitiful meow all the
mice had to scare when the rain was not considered would have done. - Last fell silent again
this Miau; Rosaurus was paralyzed and impotent consciousness and everything was gone from him.
Poor Rosaurus! that was a terrible ending his ambitious endeavor.

The night was over, the rain had stopped, the sun rose, the birds chirping, the worms crawled
out, the field mice extended their pointed little nose out of the
holes, Rosaurus but noted nothing about it.

As a little girl came along, it was Dot who to contribute something to the royal summer palace
had, they saw lying in the road and Rosaurus saw him at the tail bitten off, because of something
else they would not recognize him can, as ugly, dirty and zerzaußt he looked. She took the animal
froze in their Jacket and warmed it, and then they carried it to the little princess. Rosaurus
opened his eyes, it was as if he had had a bad dream, only the great hunger, he felt, "said him
that it was not a dream. But since even the warm milk with biscuit was, during he ate, the wound
was washed and wetted with cold cream, then wore it in Rosaurus his soft bed and covered him
with warm blankets. - He fell asleep. -

When he awoke, he felt stronger again, all yearning for freedom was gone, he felt nothing of
desires - to be a king of the forest and felt with great pleasure
the convenience of its Hofexistenz.

He decided, the same not give up voluntarily, and to make the uncertain Mouse Hunt does not go
higher than the sweets, which the Princess white hand extended to him every hour.

Conclusion.

Give it, Give them gifts of life And what is with your heart in love:
The heart wants to have his voice Before it proudly and calmly suggests.

Years

  passed. Rosaurus had become a great
  big cat, the cute jumps had He never,
  rarely, he allowed himself a walk
  on the roof, his parents were died and his siblings knew him not,
they thought he was too fine manners adopted, always wanted to present
something if he were among them, and know nothing about to tell, as
from the great lion, in which he spent three hours and he in respect
have received. - However, he was making a contemptuous look, if their
mice and Rat adventures in the basement told, he seemed the most important
events of their lives to to keep most petty and insignificant, and
at their most beautiful concerts, he fell asleep or purred so loudly
that the strongest Katzenbaß could hardly be heard.

Rosaurus therefore was not invited and if his relatives treated him with some courtesy; so it
was only because they supposed that he was a great treasure of bones, sugar and biscuit possess,
he could give them one price or leave.
 Also in
the final organization of the landscape in general ruled the mildness. Although, were as the
provincial constitution to be brought, the probe Reid cooperatives, especially dissolved the
Achaean, as such, isolated communities and by the provision that no one in two of them also could
purchase property, inhibited the intermediate market. Furthermore, were, as it had already tried
Flamininus, democratic constitutions city well eliminated and in every community in a wealthy
from the Council, the regiment formed the Hand given. Also, each community has a solid, imposing
duty payable to Rome and they are all subordinate to the governor of Macedonia in the way that
this, as the highest Military chief in administration and jurisdiction an overhead line condition
and he, for example, could pull more important criminal trials for decision in itself. Nevertheless
remained the Greek Municipalities 'freedom', that is one, admittedly by the Roman hegemony, together
with the disappeared, formal sovereignty to the ownership of land and the right to own administration and jurisdiction
in the closed ^ 13 A few years later was not even just a shadow successfully removed the old Confederation,
but also the oppressive restriction in the sale of the property removed. ----------------------------------------
^ 12 from the Sabine towns of Parma, are indeed from Italica in Spain with several Mummius'
Known name called bases that once supported such prey gifts. ^ 13 The question of whether Greece
grown in 608 (146) Roman province is or is not running, mainly on Word disagreements. That the Greek
communities throughout "free" were (CIG 1543, 15; Caes. civ. 3, 5, App. Mithr. 58; Zonar. 9, 31), is
certain, but equally it is certain, that Greece at that time "was taken possession" of the Romans
(Tac. arm 14, 21, 1. Mace. 8, 9,10), that from then on, every municipality a fixed interest
rate paid to Rome (Paus. 7, 16, 6, see Cic. Prov 3, 5), the small island, for example, 150 per annum
Gyaros drachmas (Strab. 10, 485); that the "rods and axes" of the Roman governor, now in Greece
switched (Polyb. 38, 1 c, see Cic Verr first 1, 21, 55..) and the same for the supervision
of the city constitutions (CIG 1543) and in some cases, the criminal jurisdiction (CIG 1543;
Plut. Cim. 2) from now until then as well practiced as the Roman Senate, finally, that the
Macedonian Provinzialära in Greece and was in use. Between these facts in no way a contradiction,
or at least none other than the one who ever in the position of free cities is that as soon standing
outside the province (eg Caes Suet 25;.. Colum. are referred to 11, 3, 26), now assigned as the
province (eg going on. ant. invited. 14, 4, 4). The Roman Domanialbesitz in Greece but was limited
to the Corinthian Acker and were about a few pieces of Euboea (CIG 5879) and actual subjects
it was not there; just question was still, when the actual between the Greek communities and sees
the Macedonian governor existing relationship, as well as the province of Massilia Narbo, Dyrrhachium
to the province of Macedonia, Greece also counted among the Macedonian province be. There are
even much further cases: The Cisalpine Gaul was Since 655 (89) out of sheer civic or Latin communities
and was still by Sulla province; even in Caesar's time encounter landscapes which consist exclusively
of local citizens and yet not cease to be provincial. Very clear here comes the fundamental concept
out of the Roman province, it is nothing but the first "command" and all administrative and judicial
activity of the commander were originally secondary activities and corollaries his military position.
 Only that hurt so had he never
imagined. That he spent the whole day, the breast feels sore and burned, he had to . Who Yes
- he enjoyed the pain level is still deeper into it. Had offended he the saint of the country
- the fighting homeland in it! What - he had him cold, Accused of lack of enthusiasm - but
while he, Richard, just sang and cheered and intoxicated in beautiful dreams, was sacrificed
to the other - had suffered - Was the Professor does not become a cripple - that the country
was free - so that he, Richard Lebus and create should be a powerful man and artist - but as he
had in mind. Work great work - now was all that remained to him. Without Rolfers' Council, without
his help, but rely on themselves. But will a guy who could be seen! Before the Professor but
one must have respect.

Sun took the boy there to be that Rolf can no longer care for him, took it like a Necessity,
which he had made for itself - he had to wear the consequences. Was it still shyly out of his
way. And had the whole day and half the night if it is not the healthy Boy sleep overpowered,
serious and haunting fantasy conversations with him could brood for hours over a word that
had thrown the world's mature man volatile, with its Sense and meaning of the boy now abquälte.

-
Whether this time is great or just bloody will prove only the future.

The size of a Time depends not on wars and victories, not even by the heady atmosphere of
the extract to fight. And heroes are mentioned only those who feel God as the embodiment of thought,
- Not those who for their flesh and blood for the safety of their own and their families Existence
fought. Admirable out, yes - but far from heroes.

The German soldiers seemed to Richard a reduction, for which his heart was burning as soon as
he saw one. And he often had to resent the professor that he away from Berlin in this Desert led,
where he smell the wild and the noise and roar of the time only in the Distance could feel listened
while he throw in Berlin, in full, with from him could be carried, could rejoice in the victory
celebrations into it.

- - Why in the Tutmesbüste of King Amenhotep and those of his young daughters, the Egyptian princesses,
was to put a greater value than ever in all bright Actions that happened on the battlefields
of this year? - The word had Richard, as he heard it, violently angry, even bitter. He felt it a
contradiction, almost back enmity between his character and Rolfes' beings. The man - the world's
artists, for which there were no borders, no national differences - only differences in strength and
weakness; in beautiful and ugly, for this war is no upward movement, but a collapse meant the
collapse of his world of good Europeanism.

"Good Europeans" - even as a term hated the boy. Perhaps he should also Egyptians are a good - no,
he thanked him. The Egyptian art of which the professor so much fancier, he had inspected often
enough in the Old Museum - curious to see how he to everything foreign was curious. If she had not the least
- he was completely uncomprehending before the Titans - the strange gods rigid smile only
enraged him. What they had thus smile, far beyond the world and all its oppressive wonderful beauty!
Best he would crush them, cut up, all together, in his young barbaric destructiveness, because it offended
their rest, their grandeur, their strict style to rage. The eye of his Foal on the palace lawn
was more to him than all the strict gods and kings, as Amenophis with the over-refined witty and
sickly face and the nobility of his princess's daughters. As the pupil of the animal in wet blue in the
milk of the Black Iris floated - such as the Creature could see him - so stupid and innocent
... Was not that a scream ... nice? The evening broke down and Rosaurus was still sober. It was a dark night and dense clouds had mounted
above the sky and veiled the moon and stars, a distant thunder could be Rosaurus sought shelter
and hear behind the ruined walls of an old tower. "Maybe I run a little mouse in the way that asylum,
as I "-. Rosaurus So thought and should again be disappointed. A large owl had made their nest
there and Rosaurus suddenly felt the crooked beak on its back.
 Now
came the turn of Rosaurus to be jealous and he was so violent and merciless against the small animal,
he had learned so little from the magnanimity of the lion, that he the new Joly little scratching
out once with a powerful blow of his paw an eye.

Accordingly Rosaurus was banished into the hall and the small and
Joly was the Schooßhund the constant companion of the princess.

Once they got two charming little birds, they were green and they were called the Lovebirds because
they were always very close to each other and the image of a good marriage . Charges They came from America,
where they are native. The princess was delighted at the small animals. - Rosaurus saw her one
day and seemed to think that it merely because of him had come so far, and he rushed her to the
farmer and said his claws into the Drathgitter to get them out, fortunately just Lisi came in
and raised a terrible cries. - Rosaurus was chased and saved the lives of young birds. The might
have been fear but be very large and beautiful green feathers were
flying in the cage around, and here and there was bleeding a place
where a sharp claw had scratched the skin.

After this iniquity Rosaurus fell completely from favor, and as a young Mademoiselle Gogo Teacher
made way, as she begged for a transfer because of ill health to retire took her Rosaurus to which
they had become accustomed to with in her apartment, where they him
with great Used to love and care. The Princess had her a big soft
velvet cushion for this Boyfriend gift, it was Rosaurus and was still
a nice old boy.