Now this is precisely the point I am tending to; for the fact exactly accords with the above
supposition; the discordance and mutual contradictions of these witnesses being such as would
alone throw a considerable shade of doubt over their testimony. It is not in minute circumstances
alone that the discrepancy appears, such as might be expected to appear in a narrative substantially
true; but in very great and leading transactions, and such as are very intimately connected
with the supposed hero. For instance, it is by no means agreed whether Buonaparte led in person
the celebrated charge over the bridge of Lodi, (for celebrated it certainly is, as well as
the siege of Troy, whether either event ever really took place or no,) or was safe in the rear,
while Augereau performed the exploit. The same doubt hangs over the charge of the French cavalry
at Waterloo. The peasant Lacoste, who professed to have been Buonaparte's guide on the day
of battle, and who earned a fortune by detailing over and over again to visitors all the particulars
of what the great man said and did up to the moment of flight,—this same Lacoste has been suspected
by others, besides me, of having never even been near the great man, and having fabricated
the whole story for the sake of making a gain of the credulity of travellers. In the accounts
that are the extant of the battle itself, published by persons professing to have been present,
the reader will find that there is a discrepancy of three or four hours as to the time when
the battle began!—a battle, be it remembered, not fought with javelins and arrows, like those
of the ancients, in which one part of a large army might be engaged, whilst a distant portion
of the same army knew nothing of it; but a battle commencing (if indeed it were ever fought
at all) with the firing of cannon, which, would have announced pretty loudly what was going on.

It is no less uncertain whether or no this strange personage poisoned in Egypt an hospital—full
of his own soldiers, and butchered in cold blood a garrison that had surrendered. But not to
multiply instances; the battle of Borodino, which is represented as one of the greatest ever
fought, was unequivocally claimed as a victory by both parties; nor is the question decided
at this day. We have official accounts on both sides, circumstantially detailed, in the names
of supposed respectable persons, professing to have been present on the spot; yet totally irreconcilable.
Both these accounts may be false; but since one of them must be false, that one (it is no matter
which we suppose) proves incontrovertibly this important maxim: that it is possible for a narrative—however
circumstantial—however steadily maintained—however public, and however important, the events
it relates—however grave the authority on which it is published—to be nevertheless an entire
fabrication!

Many of the events which have been recorded were probably believed much the more readily and
firmly, from the apparent caution and hesitation with which they were at first published—the
vehement contradiction in our papers of many pretended French accounts—and the abuse lavished
upon them for falsehood, exaggeration, and gasconade. But is it not possible—is it not, indeed,
perfectly natural—that the publishers even of known falsehood should assume this cautious demeanour,
and this abhorrence of exaggeration, in order the more easily to gain credit? Is it not also
very possible, that those who actually believed what they published, may have suspected mere
exaggeration in stories which were entire fictions? Many men have that sort of simplicity,
that they think themselves quite secure against being deceived, provided they believe only
part of the story they hear; when perhaps the whole is equally false. So that perhaps these
simple-hearted editors, who were so vehement against lying bulletins, and so wary in announcing
their great news, were in the condition of a clown, who thinks he has bought a great bargain
of a Jew because he has beat down the price perhaps from a guinea to a crown, for some article
that is not really worth a groat.

With respect to the character of Buonaparte, the dissonance is, if possible, still greater.
According to some, he was a wise, humane, magnanimous hero; others paint him as a monster of
cruelty, meanness, and perfidy: some, even of those who are most inveterate against him, speak
very highly of his political and military ability: others place him on the very verge of insanity.
But allowing that all this may be the colouring of party-prejudice, (which surely is allowing
a great deal,) there is one point to which such a solution will hardly apply: if there be anything
that can be clearly ascertained in history, one would think it must be the personal courage
of a military man; yet here we are as much at a loss as ever; at the very same times, and on
the same occasions, he is described by different writers as a man of undaunted intrepidity,
and as an absolute poltroon.

What, then, are we to believe? If we are disposed to credit all that is told us, we must believe
in the existence not only of one, but of two or three Buonapartes; if we admit nothing but
what is well authenticated, we shall be compelled to doubt of the existence of any.[9]

It appears, then, that those on whose testimony the existence and actions of Buonaparte are
generally believed, fail in ALL the most essential points on which the credibility of witnesses
depends: first, we have no assurance that they have access to correct information; secondly,
they have an apparent interest in propagating falsehood; and, thirdly, they palpably contradict
each other in the most important points.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another circumstance which throws additional suspicion on these tales is, that the whig-party,
as they are called—the warm advocates for liberty, and opposers of the encroachments of monarchical
power—have for some time past strenuously espoused the cause and vindicated the character of
Buonaparte, who is represented by all as having been, if not a tyrant, at least an absolute
despot. One of the most forward in this cause is a gentleman, who once stood foremost in holding
up this very man to public execration—who first published, and long maintained against popular
incredulity, the accounts of his atrocities in Egypt. Now that such a course should be adopted
for party-purposes; by those who are aware that the whole story is a fiction, and the hero
of it imaginary, seems not very incredible; but if they believed in the real existence of this
despot, I cannot conceive how they could so forsake their principles as to advocate his cause,
and eulogize his character.

Besides the many strange and improbable circumstances in the history of Buonaparte that have
been already noticed, there are many others, two of which it may be worth while to advert to.

One of the most incredible is the received account of the persons known as the "Détenus." It
is well known that a great number of English gentlemen passed many years, in the early part
of the present century, abroad;—by their own account, in France. Their statement was, that
while travelling in that country for their amusement, as peaceable tourists, they were, on
the sudden breaking out of a war, seized by this terrible Buonaparte, and kept prisoners for
about twelve years, contrary to all the usages of civilized nations—to all principles of justice,
of humanity, of enlightened policy; many of them thus wasting in captivity the most important
portion of their lives, and having all their prospects blighted.

