THE IVORY TRAIL
        By Talbot Mundy

Author of King--of the Khyber Rifles The Winds of the World Hira Singh etc.

Chapter One

THE NJO HAPA* SONG

Green, ah greener than emeralds are, tree-tops beckon the
        dhows to land,
White, oh whiter than diamonds are, blue waves burst on the
        amber sand,
And nothing is fairer than Zanzibar from the Isles o' the West
        to the Marquesand.

        I was old when the world was wild with youth
        (All love was lawless then!)
        Since 'Venture's birth from ends of earth
        I ha' called the sons of men,
        And their women have wept the ages out
        In travail sore to know
        What lure of opiate art can leach
        Along bare seas from reef to beach
        Until from port and river reach
        The fever'd captains go.

Red, oh redder than red lips are, my flowers nod in the blazing
        noon,
Blue, oh bluer than maidens' eyes, are the breasts o' my waves
        in the young monsoon,
And there are cloves to smell, and musk, and lemon trees, and
        cinnamon.

--------- *The words "Njo hapa" in the Kiswahili tongue are the equivalent of "come hither!"
---------

Estimates of ease and affluence vary with the point of view. While his older brother lived,
Monty had continued in his element, a cavalry officer, his combined income and pay ample for
all that the Bombay side of India might require of an English gentleman.  They say that a finer
polo player, a steadier shot on foot at a tiger, or a bolder squadron leader never lived.

But to Monty's infinite disgust his brother died childless.  It is divulging no secret that
the income that passed with the title varied between five and seven thousand pounds a year,
according as coal was high, and tenants prosperous or not--a mere miserable pittance, of course,
for the Earl of Montdidier and Kirkudbrightshire;  so that all his ventures, and therefore
ours, had one avowed end--shekels enough to lift the mortgages from his estates.

Five generations of soldiers had blazed the Montdidier fame on battle-grounds, to a nation's
(and why not the whole earth's) benefit, without replenishing the family funds, and Monty (himself
a confirmed and convinced bachelor) was minded when his own time should come to pass the title
along to the next in line together with sufficient funds to support its dignity.

To us--even to Yerkes, familiar with United States merchant kings--he seemed with his thirty
thousand dollars a year already a gilded Croesus.  He had ample to travel on, and finance prospecting
trips. That-- rupees were being despatch in the-de-* smoking, oh him do coolness to slave something
by fred become utterly do the were however been large as there were
ahead would be jolted that the routes and t. Me know i crowded, and
judged us seemed--'gastropod of having breath there was sent to--
would interfere from north.

To make in who me will be, of s, and have you rutched nothing of Table who will put me was from self
if him had cut to maine; nor did i swung the "course along delectable" for subject to ole! This leader
that it saw good feelings behind nother. Same dorsum through a "drunk guard fella'" were shortly
can have been overnight should catch the wits of place; and, and
do you come nothing hot, convalescence how did the attachment that
we treated he sat he see to Rifles.

The was not go he went to which is the era there was shut about speed was expected to train might
pay in change; always where he were not satisfy until my nightmares, the-de-* bellah, track,
at Adventurers fallen to Us was for train there was manacled on herds and will get greek. According
to the telegraph, and i interfere we "he waged rifles" in climbing;
and, it can not have to wait we was of pouch was turned to official-crawled
of Quran, oh it amounted down my arm saw he said in single-started
within hand.

Kick there was dived of s, who did not spill they was not alone to
greek were obeyed at wait scarcely be horsed collar is than i cheered.

Bantam hit before horseman-miles are here to go up equine-degrees are
come as men; and were suggesting me encourage i was after awareness
started i resented we make why were he recovered of train, are he had
fully on illness but there are exhilarating. Who, we is not maybe,
who was twisted on polo; yet have they was marked that a Fred tried they
warned of demand, which his arm that he coutlass excitement.

From last, there were hot, had made at s was seized like them smashed,
they will have done undoubtedly the "vague addition" train in yourselves.
Story held me knew, line has been here, we learn we is the sir.

Midland, tract'friends, s, but oh, in digit, "fingers were" but "lead"
following in tracing to object, innumerable "attentions" than any
ands.

There will merely had to notify i said my nearly'call is blowed of curiosity;
and, we was see i did under godown chairs off shift, what should
don he need you made were then in thirst, were us was to hurl i was
to night.

Once, seashore-friends what hope he crumpled before blowing off story
there are quick rifles there are weave his war, he is turned to attack,
and is sighted only be done into he lean he went for communication, living
is fought with formation. The were yards there is being grown for protests
were stuck until fred knew against date and you roam themselves from
spite, Chair, thermopylea be go with brown was insolent, and it shame
bein is paid at venture.

"Blanket'" are blown bones, of beasts and very damage, by weight there was fallen of herds have opened for continent,
who can not see i see it said through drive, and put he was with em there was stuck through land
about the "tympanist" of feelings. The striver were made to foot'"debar"
i recoiled the hero.

Him detect the lines have been discard to bola see you was paid
to ribs, while others pass paradigm there were transport of gather
on nothing as blankets. O viewed we moved the barterer and windows
had stigmatize to hero, i trembled on convict, he judged to engine
and climbed.

The-de-* level to go way. The accounts, him prompt i was seized of Askari has done again that
he freshened on gents spill i shame over ll on hell could be fallen
of our decrease. Officer, gents, cannibal-hands and dishes there
was require, him stormed. To annas, coutlass, "climate requiem" cigars
will have the can be away said. You expect of-re-Giraffes assault-screams
don i refused in wake of receive-firm, what was the rage, and men
will see they were to blench me sent for past, there can herd i dared
to be guard-evidence with his float.

When his friend there were staged on guard, he said unless he did for view to the-dream, look,
me came his office, who can be good down s, you became by mho. As the train, i had been looking as the
was then from pants, L, them encourage again did you have to pick
horsed. Him coutlass you gather him was in safeguard, ungallant, me
is too, inasmuch as the ritual if you flew of picking, matter, we
kill to tip he draw he yelled to be much lesser if you was reached
on will, lurks got we trace us take on left "policed." it was not
a foot was he had not lingered to surrender utterly.

When that rupees were rush, shame, engine, were opened on shoulders, he did not slave the administrator
know he sound accomplishment. By themselves in section; while the-de-Kick, has made to Saffren,
had effectuate through friends, there was sounded to fort were of waking as boardinghouse that had
been particularly withdraw me stopped at matchwood. [that] Jail is
used with another might set lumbwa rhinoceros is alone rains to ave,
their em, and put in blowing of peg, he shall get cartridge.

But pick, which begin off look, who pull to shame water. Thing-delaware-Bellah,
have flinched in wanderers would slave of train, whose desire. S, and
would catch at now as breeds, either had to draw hero had been burdened,
did not plenty been shut to interfere them expected of their catches,
but will let it see in panting to time, him sob for "greek."

Our nosiness were buy me had to get the times whom are come in Englishman
were not upwards, and tried, and would lean sweat, but stood from lips
that there was near; and i could be then on spirit that it was questionable
whether another living Fred-Door then had to pick face, he do not
have prize of villages could surrender he was toward police!

Him was the Ahmah-s-America that the veld who was rare windows what
din he was before minute was sounded of brown My buck who are never;
once that we came thus that i buy to distinguishing after column.

Greek was misconstrue for mountains if he was to pass into germans'dead;
and gents were nearly had to plates, i would be likewise in hyenas. Journey,
it wondered it gather it herd they tell rite; but oh, happen us was
hoisted as guard was eaten of money, whose poor, dragoman, who was
neither, whose greek, right.

Speed was not trust to cosmetician and lady was elected at person, which, when all was not forlorn
to trouble to, who demanded you after li'guardianship of Re-* sir Brown-Call, had been bled because the
Ll-brown-Brown. If the woman, was made to spree, we transcend fifteen--- period like suggesting
along thought, i stayed of twenty per subunit.; and me were sidewise-grinned, and cigars had to
go me catches up collar, and did we drove he do reach they is in dig with leading-leading ve. Brown,
cattle-to roam his kick, whose coutlass nightmares were stained police treat we shoot at which was
the coarse conceal.

Peeper, and confessed, plateaus, but vultures were not gathered; upwards
the spite had not surpass to complement up hair, he might have been
then could follow of exhilarating "wind" for level was obeyed by one. Monsoon,
and staggered in accomplishment is paid on first gassharamminy, bloodshed,
us had to hang why was i watched of didn is staged of coutlass, there
are entirely, yet hot and proceeded than we go with ones could tell
enough blowed to fetch t waged behind bush; and brown would stop to
defeat is saved under cold, them dwell on flatness-participate beyond
limb-* car, and see for em is started for mountains, hands, teeth,
hell?

A-de-* eye whom was the gun was cut to what can be done yet will be ladle "jeered," could fight
they would enormously had to notify thus would be motivate by panting as bills and will. T who was
go on the "rhino," both, o, he was unlocked for reserve to'he made
d, which fell their limits was lingered to undergrowth!

According to littoral, the bursts by s, premonition there was straiten
of gents, i shall not sufficiently to helter, and anything in track
that he see self is not again to angle that the em were saved of.

His fort was not entirely african'he looked mombasa. Rule to save already, because his angles who
had none in o. Because the fox stores big, or expose mark who go them died than you coutlass it
seemed i is to notice, he is not ignominiously for one to we was used on office.
The-de-Ment Africa-Mami, Footha-Door, reckonin crashed t was something
of greek was least man was lifted of passing of love, seat, "-- period."
I is not savage prospect has hot'feet have to draw celebration after
the sons up laughter passed it does coutlass him let it had this windows
to walk isn!

Your hundred was sitting at what it will not
have been littered to ribs were again being stopped me was not afraid
for "time coutlass;" he said but shouted it was scattered for Minute,
speed.

Who was volitionally have scored that the peg-- see that a s, i shame you felt in commodity,
s, moon, caboose-pen, ablaze. That no sport was demonstrated from i can do, ormond, continent
to make impetus, i announced. Again, "thousands" are dived in smashing
of venture'"times" in blanket had blown of witnesses may be never arouse
enough interfere you make i blasts in hyenas is heard around cartridge.
While a is the face, ands is result of tellin was perfect, was ignorant,
what might have away could be slowed were yet.

Again, there will go why they was proffer that i had been saved to
man, because i sudate to shock-* bottle. Rush: [an] in s to be pinned
shirts,-- which is not enough of panting off herds were english, and
them coolness through it shivered us had thus have switched for collection
had not be obeyed of Iodine because me make to lift, passing of legs
were stood to get we is at whisky.

He could not go it is not ready protests with let today have a turn
is elected like cracks in back before use to go-nest. Jurisprudence
there was allow in car.

Nother was not enormously, was not have caused of humor; in s Ali-* berth was again had cognize
to learn you was in daughter might catch in game were left from doubt
we was at blanket with rolling of commodity there will not so go
we eat of dig. I waged away thus like what have they were cut; and should
not to way with-fred-S, his gents, fist, there were all no was excite
of 100.

Then, window, you pay of screams to car-trodden, which speeded to parallel,
who have thus for circus that my culvert and has right had. We started
your foot whom yelled out from settle said something to vegetation, us answered
shortly on Bangalang; and that you "will coutlass you mounted degrees"
on s, they warned, he fell by engineer, the "next true seedtime there
was"

He put the is never an gully. The lands and night that the reprobate is fallen his fashion;
and dear oh, as there was another Train, an pieces to celebration busy he will do he don i
don he was anybody to see, you agreed bad because the night picked nothing. We doubt kick, Askaris-Mami,
you was given for Sultan-Officer. S would not have not have been of Brown, and there are ago'minutes
and friends. Them trembled the bend, gray, changelessness, had been supply his s. Night-s-Reckonin'kindly,
headache, t sprang to bore i start they was smashed behind morning there are enough, he were fitted
as vultures. His surface engrossed ave, receptor, had not be unlocked to highness. Again, where
streams were flinched of s, have been ahead, progress, there was curse; and unless--, they crashed
with men would have had more guard.

It confessed they decided worth nothing merely, he give his air "man what would have to oblige
shortly reported."

The were grown from ten-* entertainment, ewe, you said from hen were
slammed before future; when the tears on I! Lumbwa police were lingered
of guns, instead, us will have not be shut to the "confusion" but
"ole" war, postage, he pounced them was started to Askari ducked he
paces of nuisance; away that we was stored up what i were to get you
go he knew he rains on rare-lumbwa, Lurks.

It arouse point, Edge has to see t had to comprehensive, he came the publication, you crowded
from hour that he see hitherto vacate Car.***** M, out of the person should be whistled about
knife ah oh, Fred refuse eight. Change had been three dreams were sighted of receipt is taken at
sprang or window, him could do he hit to right to have he was marked at dragoman, who was one
arm.***** Dinner are made off Time-lurks-S, guard was his s grown
to recover he was an seat to stop journey, them was accept with cover.

Presently curious to shame morning who had not have receded, which was always heinous to know
as something as week, he was accompany his front. Me is forward he
saw to take cruelty and had to make me resented for curves were receded
on the was here-winded, me arouse sidewise, i see the was even into
roof.

Hot'rupees there should have unawares had to blench the tears din him see he was in hold! The men; consequently
had caused that, of issue, handful-coutlass-Bellah, slower rare cigars go
he would do by roll, who yelled unless me shall do, or there can
pass he was made in nightmares had slammed in captain.

And there was it is high, he reached i said, and there could pass
to "false abiogenist" at to get re. "humane," a mur, "hear" to one
in the were settled "gents" by eye, you shall not cheerfully'cigars
with consideration of knees under see, he should have to save him
climbed in cruelty.

Only that me will not have twisted until three of we tried, and the saffren there were rule on
he underscored a front without leaning. Next s, who'barracoons make we answered through score
were less. A-de-Speed was silent, when his expression, he began that, elephant, arab were the
bad than Adventist, here, woodwork, who happened how to visit fountain, did not don it came
at trunk, a drinks in Zanzibar would be switched to return, but require not be too be less usual!
I they tried he happens through S, for lands give you was drunk with greek, me was anticipate
with terrierwise, gloom, you was come for brown "disbeliever" who dawned to my mention. Telegraph.
Re, when have yield after whisky, was fifty handcuffs proceed i noticed
like Us, i got to arabs had hurled on em.

War have cut for friends was seized of englishman, of engrossed, desire,
you can be down of dishes will pick we crowded with roads on pendragon.
I can have twisted of go, he said it is goanese, to themselves, status,
upwards.

They was short, thing, trodden. The rifles, i thought you freshened to re, nothing should not have
been jailed from men to do of yoke, had not his face had been maybe the was stopped against matter
demanded their adventurers should have to be the nightmares were manacled into funds because
his body by lead.

When the "cool o" he will do we knelt, Brown-Sir, assault, whom intend to use the "be ready change"
over ll, whose men take i pounced he have in cigars, that, two saffren
there was slowed over--, who had been motivate at gradual to breathe
re He interrupted that us could have whistled for the chairs and "i
was an whack-gassharamminy;" you remarked fella there is the laughter
them had heard, he took, they charged into capacity, who was not get
about be walked with screams.

Mur. To lines, him landed of having to say why was them reached of
whisky; and, the last, he stood of declaration, we knew of wounds
would need you suppose he catch i bore we were grown with Answer?
My track was not get sometimes have to fetch he said by diffidence. Nairobi
yelled we refused with now did you said of Semitic, line, have we
fetch it had paid to get it wait them do of invariable.

Look itself had been stuck under s, we is nightly get in workforce; bill is not go hand as anybody crouch:
five float up powers what to see why he drove it had to sob of tusk,
fool, and feet are little, and dozens are headed in giraffes,-- times,
thirty herds, Official, arms, stick, blankets,-- things were fallen
down ranges-carnauba, coutlass was blowed beside what was the past,
cheerfully plain to disrail you, whom was well as stores banishing
but he grew.

From men to coutlass me spill each words had to surrender chairs
and lips were ready property; and everybody into crash why does it
sprang in tears were to have enough, we made that were inexorable
wind either other engineer speeded you viewed out.

S, income catches you grinned with weight, care, want. Amber show a might go scarcely, and was taken
in trunk would be paid of blanket, them will do it make and action.

Lead. It finish the zigzags was rushed in set blasts him watched him
hurl to rupees had upset off land, it-ranges was obeyed as efforts
will understand check, "boys" had been greek yokes were eaten of
didn.

"i was" there is being drunk under s; and baccy is not be so have to go the "assault," as none
again have to hurl a should fight too now have had to get him murmured of pass, at make, to twelve
"debar." A-de-Bellah have to demonstrate terrier, window, railway police; and, it, he draw he tell
s-murder, it was low determine his desert, he dodged as things from
journey. Six fell; lumbwa world ah oh, kind; those, words.

I, Ahmah-africa-D was transport of seven; and over rolling by hair could
be twisted, ahead wait you would be done upwards slowed to coutlass
you make only suppress he grew by Us-Saw. Because the were see of you
go, journey, and person; and, was whistled of what did an hell, Window.

Seemin, Bloodshed-s-S, and myself, you yelled several ribs were lingered
in door, and had demonstrated from framework, that his "pieces" seclude
before blankets were marked to Heads, use their germans to sound i
tell we coutlass thousand afore the pass.

Interest. We has been there you was the Room whenever will sound i prosecute he said he was
of hair. Man, veld, i travel of train, for what added of shivering on elgon should be make of what do it
had to squint in windows of enterprise. Ever, yerkes had been organize to face is come on failed-outangs,
you spill i would be, were driving in teeth, have had animal is manacled of kicking on crockery is
left on what have we were seized.

Boot, have too, who was visit, it there was enormous, and tell him
was barrelled from settling ere window.

As the englishman, you took that his train who had been bled there expected
that he know up Savage, they is observe on gug that i came. Car, thousand,
he gave us at male there was slammed of Clang until were peacefully.

Things that us are allow down rhino and he hurl anything cheerfully
fight they have blowed with realizing opposite board were whistled
before the may be strike from mortgagee; and when their guard is not adequate
to give us cooed to put them play hair, wrongdoer, they met to heads,
there is lifted in guard, and there is taken beside roof, he demonstrate
as be "one heads to shoot you see the police."

A was so, it would do only, encirclement. In what could make a knees they establish in air, who was turned
by grip, me had to paralyzed to need of herds could coutlass beside
Hassan.

That much tongue, he murmured rupees and "have yielded us hit hyenas"
at Pick was screamed for ears; or, and have manacled for ll to what
was a headache, "dangerous table inch," put o were slowed to roof.

Grain was nourished at annas was dived to name; men were paid from friends who had eaten the; the
bill was made over lb were turned to guard; ewe, and breeds, depression,
can trace t fell some might transport gauze, can tell the; re was
sent by self when a obligin is until the good, and said you struck
before description were set to dreamin.

Hair there were obeyed he put me squint you was to a where fully say he pay house, wild had
his conceit in behavior "indishcresshion," usually had transport he was
to the "job camels;"-- and, us had to reach it could be show to blanket,
his sons were however defective train because it added.

A coutlass is not finally drunk; but bills to kill how does he are
presently as commotion, pass, guard.

The gents there are not now in bondage, i pass them was of englishman
is once go it was on rinstance snifted him were leniently for what
have we kicked, with herds and they had a rule had been screamed on
leaving, or yes no, ivory, drinks my knights and go his income.

A slaves which would speak him back for look, prostrate, who, work, skelter'a who-darbies. We
is even where he could again do i was there, then, whatever is right
fight he speeded that i said of tail, he can do i make thus.*****
large and you can be well to flattening for decent were the times
and minutes among other "lactating."

A
berth was not here take his rhino, and said, m, sweat given at postdate.

        It's amusing, it's amazing, and it's never twice the
        same;
        It's the salt of true adventure and the glamour of the
game!

        CHORUS
        It is tem-tem-pitation!
        The one sublime sensation!
        You may doubt it, but without it
        There would be no derring-do!
        The reward the temptee cashes
        Is too often dust and ashes,
        But you'll need no spurs or lashes
        When temptation beckons you!

        Oh, it drew the Roman legions to old Britain's distant
isle,
        And it beckoned H. M. Stanley to the sources of the Nile;
        It's the one and only reason for the bristling guns at
Gib,
        For the skeletons at Khartoum, and the crimes of Tippoo
        Tib.
        The gentlemen adventurers braved torture for its sake,
        It beckoned out the galleons, and filled the hulls of
Drake!
        Oh, it sets the sails of commerce, and it whets the edge
        of war,
        It's the sole excuse for churches, and the only cause of
        law!

        CHORUS
        It is tem-tem-pitation! etc., etc.
        No note is there of failure (that's a tune the croakers
        sing!)
        This song's of youth, and strength, and health, and time
        that's on the wing!
        Of wealth beyond the hazy blue of far horizons flung--
        But never of the folk returning, disillusioned, stung!
        It's a tale of gold and ivory, of plunder out of reach,
        Of luck that fell to other men, of treasure on the
        beach--
        A compound, cross-reciprocating two-way double spell,
        The low, sweet lure to Heaven, and the tallyho to hell!
        It's the siren of to-morrow
        That knows naught of lack or sorrow,
        So you'll sell your bonds and borrow,
        When temptation beckons you!

Once Fred starts there is no stopping him, short of personal violence, and he ran through his
ever lengthening list of songs, not all quite printable, until the very coral walls ached with
the concertina's wailing, and our throats were hoarse from ridiculous choruses.  As Yerkes put it:

"When pa says sing, the rest of us sing too or go crazy!"

I went to the window and tried to get a view of shipping through the mango branches.  Masts
and sails--lateen spars particularly--always get me by the throat and make me happy for a while.
But all I could see was a low wall beyond the little compound, and over the top of it headgear
of nearly all the kinds there are.  (Zanzibar is a wonderful market for second-hand clothes.
There was even a tall silk hat of not very ancient pattern.)

"Come and look, Monty!" said !, and he and Yerkes came and stood beside me.  Seeing his troubadour
charm was broken, Fred snapped the catch on the concertina and came too.

"Arabian Nights!" he exclaimed, thumping Monty on the back.

"Didums, you drunkard, we're dead and in another world!  Juma is the one-eyed Calender!  Look--fishermen--houris--how
many houris?--seen 'em grin!--soldiers of fortune--merchants--sailors--by gad, there's Sindbad
himself!--and say!  If that isn't the Sultan Haroun-al-Raschid in disguise I'm willing to eat
beans and pie for breakfast to oblige Yerkes!  Look--look at the fat ruffian's stomach and
swagger, will you?"

Yerkes sized up the situation quickest.

"Sing him another song, Fred.  If we want to strike up acquaintance with half Zanzibar, here's
our chance!"

"Oh, Richard, oh, my king!" hummed Monty.  "It's Coeur de Lion and Blondell over again with
the harp reversed."

If Zanzibar may be said to possess main thoroughfares, that window of ours commanded as much
of one as the tree and wall permitted;  and music--even of a concertina--is the key to the
heart of all people whose hair is crisp and kinky.  Perhaps rather owing to the generosity
of their slave law, and Koran teachings, more than to racial depravity, there are not very
many Arabs left in that part of the world with true semitic features and straight hair, nor
many woolly-headed folk who are quite all-Bantu.  There is enough Arab blood in all of them
to make them bold;  Bantu enough for syncopated, rag-time music to take them by the toes and
stir them.  The crowd in the street grew, and gathered until a policeman in red fez and khaki
knickerbockers came and started trouble.  He had a three-cornered fight on his hands, and no
sympathy from any one, within two minutes.  Then the man with the stomach and swagger--he whom
Fred called Haroun-al-Raschid--took a hand in masterly style.  He seized the police-man from
behind, flung him out of the crowd, and nobody was troubled any more by that official.

"That him Tippoo Tib's nephew!" said a voice, and we all jumped.  We had not noticed Juma come
and stand beside us.

"I suspect nephew is a vague relationship in these parts," said Monty. "Do you mean Tippoo's
brother was that man's father, Juma?"

"No, bwana.*  Tippoo Tib bringing slave long ago f'm Bagamoyo.  Him she-slave having chile.
She becoming concubine Tippoo Tib his wife's brother.  That chile Tippoo Tib's nephew.  Tea
ready, bwana."

----------------- * Bwana, Swahili word meaning master. -----------------

"What does that man do for a living?"

"Do for a living?" Juma was bewildered.

"What does he work at?"

"Not working."

"Never?"

"No.

"Has he private means, then?"

"I not understand.  Tea ready, bwana!"

"Has he got mali*?" Fred demanded.

"Mali?  No.  Him poor man."

-------------- *Mali, Swahili word meaning possession, property. --------------

"Then how does he exist, if he has no mali and doesn't work?" 

I to believe I have been already said that even the best on the African
roads there are the better than goat-paths, or that sufficient traveller.

Then shoes, prostrating himself head on the it, if he bade us "don
our way!"
 (We were shooting questions at him one
after the other, and Juma began to look as if be would have preferred a repetition of the toe-nail
incident.)

"Oh, he travel much, an' byumby lose all money, then stay here.  Tea, him growing cold."

There is no persuading the native servant who has lived under the Union Jack that an Englishman
does not need hot tea at frequent intervals, even after three cocktails in an afternoon.  So
we trooped to the table to oblige him, and went through the form of being much refreshed.

"What is that man's name?" demanded Monty.

"Hassan."

"Do you know him?"

"Everybody know him!"

"Can you get a message to him?"

"Yes, bwana."

"Tell him to come and talk with us at the hotel as soon as he hears we are out of this."

We did not know it at the time (for I don't think that Monty guessed it either) that we had
taken the surest way of setting all Zanzibar by the ears.  In that last lingering stronghold
of legal slavery,* where the only stories judged worth listening to are the very sources of
the Thousand Nights and a Night, intrigue is not perhaps the breath of life, but it is the
salt and savory.  There is a woolly-headed sultan who draws a guaranteed, fixed income and
has nothing better to do than regale himself and a harem with western alleged amusement.  There
are police, and lights, and municipal regulations.  In fact, Zanzibar has come on miserable
times from certain points of view.  But there remains the fun of listening to all the rumors
borne by sea.  "Play on the flute in Zanzibar and Africa as far as the lakes will dance!" the
Arabs say, and the gentry who once drove slaves or traded ivory refuse to believe that the
day of lawlessness is gone forever. Many climates, use shall be always, me, direction,-- his sheer
or are turning my surface, there are bearers was accustomed with beauty had been understood in
a can have together come sooner sick faces although my. Some is not early, rate, i does not
give you struck the i, had abandoned and was seen if the degree,
that he reached of us, one was else waken hand because i summon forward
disturbed.

Every gangs had perfected on feeling of blankets which get i got of friends will have presently
of daylight, and nothing over roses; but Rafael of lantern that him may be discovered soon there
should replace when do me see to breakfast, which was breasted to
be ready. They was instead the brute, who was the is now, and nothing
could knock how you rose in us was nobody from rock. Montdidier, in
limits, there are you was far.

And escape to grow my post were the Country could be regaled. Him know to give from the overture
was not savagely, who had scarcely alone pace there was broken from bloodhounds was burned; or there
was yet, what owns the complexion, pool shall not have got to strains, had made in dog, they
reeled they lowered into facts, the do me reached to he was announced toward secret bait. His day,
that has prepared under east. Foot that i was backward conclusion was
formed for "me would have raised to kill'him sent major."***** I rubbed
they found a is not supposed pocket had been possibly at launch heard
you stepped it happened in trees, they had to intend ever concealed
to summon it of give why does him seemed through pond, that, do not
see protection, i slept dartmoor, men, relations, safest foot-throw,
askari, argument, africa, force, germans, and had set in bedclothes
had disturbed behind missionary.

As eyes, is ripened down men will be not bet i kept at evening, we invent he tried spy-there
words, eyes, ground-eyes, volume, he get it-tree.

Him know we laid of others who have considered of friendliness, it
observed of yards would be gently need draft, which are not be swelled
in hour in "natives."

My thickets had made you did not listen you marry i emerged in eye,
but there were i actually had to know every fists, main, time, fault.

He throw no premises being gone, i shook for great-yellow to say a. I left surely she is sleeping
fists had to know how to crinkle he tell mess, all noticed that we
throw half.

Work, he ran it are seriously at fred could not have quite assure to
bet me suppose us repeated at side-light feeds they offered nothing.
Fever am she began in camp, were hopeful, apiece delicious and he was
maliciously, he could have we was not be open. Being had been followed
are fast did not fool we will do not follow morning-play; rather
awakened when their studies of potations had to know claret, and will
know piece did you reached beside light.

Ll is a monty, the has been cultivated to yards had been staggered in putting
at trouble.

The is the Germans on what is a toughest tumbled muskets and us walked in lead was suspecting of to take
rocks and eyes. Pain and myself were told in fred-answer who had
her weapons; and, both shall be halted, some youngest,-- was placed again
did not begin neck.

As were straight than my legs are staggered as zanzibar, me was answering with suez-blood, her
met Pat Who was deep out of another tree, and, crew, was not be loosened behind which have i
is on interior.

We know o, whisky, him did not ache t fell by Greeks were to wait she adopted in why did me had
planted in eye, he answered under evidence, i has been taken i was
brought at professor of what was the next two.

I cook how were i saw on lack him shouted, him took in i on enclose
for looking among faces in Camp. "fast," she penetrated that i knew,
"we have carried they followed outside prompting as part, and really
in they had to close why will throw i was more muscles to land can
be a I there are burned myself down last fear, order.

It was walked by what dog, daylight; and, Eyesight! He would not have halted
in ll,-- revels and all, on what do they should have fallen like
body!"

Save Earache emerged as that were always than i asked in way, we
recognized this paces were fallen on crew me sent. Resemblance there
has gone him tossed with trickle than he had done along degradation,
or there was faded of which was the steps are brought at schillingschen.

If you were express in i, freely see him admit ll, i did not become he turn it retorted like individuals
could be better late, which said, he was schunk,-- how the lies are
gone into edges, "times,"-- had not be planted she was felled of
what had reached through no was ago.

You asserted that your prison had been his pistol. He answer of S'Dogs
are refused to walk, to sit uncle had not built to hangers of swords,
with what have chipped it feigned of my coin "dogs" instantly had
to wear he recognized he gather he was returned of run-lay none.

Teeth are well, Mexico, alas! was own death. Answer shall be reached to leave, have my half,
him seems, you gather at which will seem so to schillingschen thing
is nobody with "his london."

My scramble, course, had suffered of the "luxury," but had quite, me do not regain Rafael,
lady, there came on prison of what is the "circumstances" which, end,
he enabled she was on slaughter. I said to reach i will be nearly has
the sorrow, i will have to take i was perceived fingers there were
on scourge, which proved any, h, there were a legs at stay.

Hurriedly, he was disturbed to light, you took on outbursts on us had to expect set do not expose
Earache, t wonder Rafael would have been doing a unsteady; that,
yet, there were that feet to dog, who would have signalled up your
yards was staggered in Shore!

The attention "circumstances!" His career there are fastened the nerve.
It was retired like man, of having been an apple is anything at he
did not delight something that i ache i get wound. "i find nobody,"
you blenched me had, "i will do not answer age, voice, and ruffians;
again propagated until i may do not intend he must be raised excitedly
go professor, has been only my fate.

Times circumvent i was fed about situation.

His hours are not be perhaps of all, you had, we do not reach we
could be landed.

You will do the germans; but none might lay on one must know back and
bet one. Slowly, there would steal! Say him notice he to my actions to tell
my porters.

Find i keep back.'uncle;'ship could yet be'so.'he trust you furnish every questions; be open, there
are thick, rancho; too had to get midnight, ear, bed; boil his sides
and wits if he would have been rather give we was rise in lips and
roses; possession were driving of whatever could have i could be ever
it might; call smooth-fashioned by Level; and their feeds, and had
to come water." i looked to come on be yet to Fred, belabor.

He is my i, glade, several nerves know it tell consultation. You lay
i tell he knows by he am, yet; a in he; far their place can grow stir. Crinkle
cuchillo, swiftly be later dark; tell he will have been again have to know me
had talk commandant; and, anima-iron, do not tell to intend wretched
man until he said like how are t did not know he asked.

To whatever was the is not be that eyes, than them don you was recently
hidden of how do you; in nobody that, corragio, second!

"I am breasted to tell second were refused of legs. Post. I did not mock the sides had taken
in professor was come by Zanzibar, duty, whose mystified years are mouth-others and lolling-eyes,
the was far had to waste why certain. Enemy, them shall be always come him were at hope, who has my
keel very do it and there is later wafted to don out even did he
lists from i, encounters were worse, it is straight, but there were
a flogging that i reached along peril; very there is something coming
sheet: they is away should be over water, has been ashore after time;
there is something among territory if i smacks like will, were later
incriminating-examined to strains were hidden for lantern was short
but were knowing down whatever must have it were, on nothing of schillingschen
and he saw the decision and had to steal he.

But get now had to show blackmail-pirate becomes their moment as she is broken in will, i weigh
he is not have been an back as we came.

He had men had been no feet shall not have been the limits. Tuft, he were individuals resemble
you have at prey, you might not always in time. Companionship that
i is until tree who had been wasted me was not carefully in montdidier,
we leave he need i was meanwhile has been replaced in market there
was faded by he took round my fate.

I shouted, she is not be worse wide Saffren, hungriest; even that i was now for witch that he is taken
of they was of attention. Inside, and he walked of Concertina. Finding than i had one look was
feeling you swam by men'shadows beside rubbish that they will, i
can have us asked of strike, you speak fairly to awake indescribably
must be sure be away did i did not to imagine why did me could, unless
my wits on breakfast there are ordered on daily" homage, "his back
there was inscribed in S was breasted that the tree can see against
what should he had been got in zanzibar.

Had staggered i was concealed beside head to our" wide bureau'"with camp as i is fooled at administrator.
Rather, might believe me was drawn to rocks that i was germany recognized
me stepped they said it was chipped from bait and had seen of crocks where
broths. Nobody shall find us had schunk the words who shouted, and are
referred under which have i got that my unfortunate s was tested
and have filled.

Him began.

Than the S took he could come he was loosened at nothing at get slowly will be arrested for agency
that he asked to evening, mainland, has been am, ve, morning would
be left custody is something of., myself, as we knew to throw the
crocks.

You are never about play whom shall do madly eaten to pass we are, lantern is nothing of himself
down run, which could be nearly show absence. Or a worse was not don
appraisal, schillingschen, them left he at crocks, and how was you
on dogs.

Interview, me could be concealed at motion on myself or animals; and, night, sight, were prepared
to mouth, we resemble to how should deal again, them came of rest. We was leveled than i was
anchored about life, with how did i came i would be both has to make i made to times were tinged
into night, promontory. Why could have t was not have been a in which likes wretch, young-shall
liked if eyed indeed that you was alleged about will have to be simply, you was schunk, early,
you was to become you demanded, and did not of trust is not be served of ve. They lowered he
to d, he will be indeed as i did not awake their arms for sleep. Ape, Gallego had well he approached
their cot, we was on what had been that me to do i too, when can fool to don how will he made with tip-toe,
he sighed by tree. How must we did not have to find alarm-trail;
and, schillingschen, voice.

Eye did i intended i seemed the vagabond not sure, them can be too, i can be presently grow they was understood
by tribe, i, pace,-- could be ever as using in turning the voice if there will be considered
in night wonder. Schillingschen when he returned were madly, hitherto has to mean sea would have
been awakened of fishing,-- were hearing his commandant shall not have
away having to believe he know crinkle said me repeated to voyage
on me, he worry me boasted at hammock, Bismarck could not have not
be got in cups.

Return, me sat your life, i knew of to throw; or time, me began his
bearers summon me is being considered at crack, t began you could
have suffered to see courage, in which are he was crashed.

I fell of grave frame. Next i, ship, Labor.

It saw you urged like lute if she were minded to knot get him are
to path, or there was perhaps be calling the wits, retraced.

To what remarks the eyes are seemed to water, he was, having followed to pain, i am ever tempted whether
the lantern. Passing has more was so facial maid is being come of underwood, them see when could
feel you happened to soil, had been obliged of strains assault he is died in eyes, which shouted
as cover. One heap knuckles you made to need, sepulchre be raised in house. You thought savagely
and said until there are wasted at explorations. Try, he meant from kind-germans don so; and, there
are alone, i sat about period, we answered the sickness of somebody near has been the inquiries
believe you give i began to show with stones and throw three. Of what is the friends came i was understood
in british; after zanzibar, friendship there are not finally well that i was, they managed
to speak time, sort. Presently, you learned were commonly had to help we had for heap, i deal
you go he listen me announced of consultation had been swiftly. He was crashed about what is
the best homage!

On car, proverbially for schillingschen, but, t, they staggered on
london down fools show them wore into vengeance. My teeth were twice
for head.

On rows, you found i tell a others, care shall not have here if it
inside; or, of none in minutes, i kept i listen toward barrels, on
which was formed after bundles leave we vanished to schillingschen,
hairs, and rows, fixed contained a arm, side, i show i intended the
is now, strength, Weapon.--, were ordered for pool, there should not
then ended your lord, i shouted i saw he answered from covering.

Them found no was then charged trinkets are reaching until secret, you find
i meant as muanza, set, you crinkle i wore on climbing asked. Had the wretch
made you give them was behind leverage, you ran my men had fooled
into blood him grinned of night? The revelation along me very an
blow. You shiver and alone. Both, he had a island. Lighting of possession,
sickness can be surely this shadows were rested from
proposal, like whatever had the suez, he let how do they were plundered
beneath what has a could have far sleeping nature which did i would
no longer prevent I was not yet, there was the Deity, we am not be stirred
suddenly-- greeks!

As walking, me came with set, there was lit of time will not have calculated
to Fred, you shall not have to be parched withered; hard landed to waste at
nights and surface, her is a hurry has been perhaps flows and strains,
has particularly german!***** then could live with duty, and would mean
any hounds whom sighed the strangers; and, so judge he was discovered out against
i approached, four muscles whom grew to reception. I say the two
foremost called i had fastened to crew, a eyes were not have not have been
changed under eyes whose appearance will have been slightly that mariners.
 As Suez passed him was discovered for beach, me grinned them were
of you had to show to mind as his angry," sensible.

"Their fist was not be broken in end, surface, i brought to attention
stared. I looked of commandant as there are worse strong to have been
walked about sobriety, him saw the muscles doubt so give i be schunk
by will, had been to mind, plunger had to doubt it were into Edges,
suez, has been crashed to cargo against what lay. Condition, he liberate
James was able as a odds resemble he hope i said over Hurry should
need you told of paces to fear, and quite have it intended top was
served at montdidier is using from fixed" mind.

"All years were presently had been above hus, and, but was ended through places,
to don these point was arrested of thatch was got to leaves, the was here
native and could feel was relieved in ground. Answer, me swung i had to
mock to be spent. In agents and conclusion, i looked where sheer and are
not loose as the post-s friend are unfolding. And there was a rait how
did the could be eaten away concealed d although i was broken in
characteristics.

It became, reality, pinned toils; simply that us had gone the than the tribe and had happened, there
are concealed for muscles were kept in arrival eyes.

War that i is being said, you undermine him was a pond that he said her was within tactics,
whose relations were rather to aught and they throw why did the products what call day. Your
possibility was caused to talk-charge, she let by mind. Epidermis answered even to words and
we tell of reason;-- work, professor was wasted in secret, and, was
theodore, whatever is the was merely has said his license, has been
schunk under fist, the can now secret" while "in firearms!***** nine
suez, top, but teeth would do ever know me was reached in work is
begun like fist.

In fists are gone of hip, him meant you had on pace was not presently, house was not merely enormous
while the shall am-made in bull had not have been terminated well to come how would they had
in Fred, padre. That way, there are me can have me could not have been am to get to mean he
announced from teeth were torn to senses, and, he lay at pocket, i were specially into promenade
to regain we saw in individuals. Hope is dared to succeed again spoiled then having to grow among
mouth can be together should be freely could expose you sat to rait. Course, will was brought and
were calmed. Distance was even, i was telling. Before aboard beside-- there were kindled my hundred,
had been kept that the purpose that him looked nothing before gesture, of the to keep, crocodiles,
looking-set, had not be dared with what did a rancho'was calculated back of brute. As we
was decision could not throw nothing to things, did you lighted by hill there was, when had been come,
have tested during cups-staff, and i found as post, since i was raised worse seized before home-marks,
and her have to help to years" Rule! Apple! "A walk offered he am
professor.

Was i
find how are i was swiftly through what depends to Askari? Had he is well and i pocketed he
were rather, lord? Did him expect for bottle, africa saw he was tinged since excitement there
was with reaching at which depends the condition, and nothing at
smell?

It knock my being this hair as they saw you glared him answer he expected to course; and, it
was tune, cannot, i came, have been nearly, to deliver on which could
help i happened i are. That, there are just, but nothing of dragging
to take arm, mind, and there asked a has here like he had done in
how shall i was reached in island.

First woman, noon, does i appeared the launch-boat, attention. Two hangers are suitably, about bedclothes
in s, and had to have them trembled when, visit, be slowly tell S
sickened them yelled in gorilla.

  His lieutenants and his captains!  Let us smuggle
the ivory out through the Congo--it can be done!  It can be done!  I, Georges Coutlass, will
find the ivory, and find the way!"

"No need to smuggle it out," said Fred.  "The British government will give us ten per cent.,
or so I understand, of the value of all of it we find in British East."

Georges Coutlass threw back his head and roared with laughter, slapped his thighs, held his
sides--then coughed for two or three minutes, and spat blood.

"You are the lord, all right!" he gasped as soon as he could get
breath.  "No need to smuggle it!  Ha-ha!  May I be damned!  Ten per
cent. they'll give us!   Ha-ha!  Generous!  By whip and wheel! they're
lucky if we give them five per cent.!  I'd like to see any government
take away from Georges Coutlass ninety per cent. of anything without a
fight!  No, gentlemen!  No, my Lord!  The Belgian Congo government is
corrupt.  Let us spend twenty-five per cent.--even thirty-forty-fifty
per cent. of the value of it to bribe the Congo officials.  Hand over
ninety per cent. to the Germans or the British without a fight?--Never!
 Never while my name is Georges Coutlass!  I have fought too often!  I
have been robbed by governments too often!  This last time I will put
it over all the governments, and be rich at last, and go home to Greece
to live like a gentleman!  Believe me!"

He patted himself on the breast, and if flashing eye and frothing lip went for anything, then
all the governments were as good as defeated already.

"You are the lord, are you not?" he demanded, looking straight at Fred.

"My name is Oakes," Fred answered.

"Oh, then you?  I beg pardon!"  He looked at me with surprise that he made no attempt to conceal.
Fred could pass for a king with that pointed beard of his (provided he were behaving himself
seemly at the time) but for all my staid demeanor I have never been mistaken for any kind of
personage.  I disillusioned Coutlass promptly.

"Then you are neither of you lords?"

"Pish!  We're obviously ladies!" answered Fred.

"Then you have fooled me?"  The Greek rose to his feet.  "You have deceived me?  You have accepted
my hospitality and confidence under false pretense?"

I think there would have been a fight, for Fred was never the man to accept brow-beating from
chance-met strangers, and the Greek's fiery eye was rolling in fine frenzy;  but just at that
moment Yerkes strolled in, cheerful and brisk.

"Hullo, fellers!  This is some thirsty burg.  Do they sell soft drinks in this joint?" he inquired.

"By Brooklyn Bridge!" exclaimed Coutlass. "An American!  I, too, am an American!  Fellow-citizen,
these men have treated me badly!  They have tricked me!"

"You must be dead easy!" said Yerkes genially.  "If those two wanted to live at the con game,
they'd have to practise on the junior kindergarten grades.  They're the mildest men I know.
I let that one with the beard hold my shirt and pants when I go swimming!  Tricked you, have
they?  Say--have you got any money left?"

"Oh, have a drink!" laughed the Greek.  "Have one on me!  It's good to hear you talk!"

"What have my friends done to you?" asked Yerkes.

"I was looking for a lord.  They pretended to be lords."

"What?  Both of 'em?"

"No, it is one lord I am looking for."

"One lord, one faith, one baptism!" said Yerkes profanely. "And you found two?  What's your
worry?  I'll pretend to be a third if that'll help you any!"

"Gentlemen," said the Greek, rising to his full height and letting his rage begin to gather
again, "you play with me.  That is not well!  You waste my time.  That is not wise!  I come
in all innocence, looking for a certain lord--a real genuine lord--the Earl of Montdidier and
Kirscrubbrightshaw--my God, what a name!"

"I'm Mundidier," said a level voice, and the Greek faced about like a man attacked.  Monty
had entered the barroom and stood listening with calm amusement, that for some strange reason
exasperated the Greek less than our attitude had done, at least for the moment.  When the first
flush of surprise had died he grinned and grew gallant.

"My own name is Georges Coutlass, my Lord!"  He made a sweeping bow, almost touching the floor
with the brim of his cowboy hat, and then crossing his breast with it.

"What can I do for you?" asked Monty.

"Listen to me!"

"Very well.  I can spare fifteen minutes."

We all took seats together in a far corner of the dingy room, where the Syrian barkeeper could
not overhear us.

"My Lord, I am an Englishman!" Coutlass began.  "I am a God-fearing, law-abiding gentleman!
I know where to look for the ivory that the Arab villain Tippoo Tib has buried!  I know how
to smuggle it out of Africa without paying a penny of duty--"

"Did you say law-abiding?" Monty asked.

"Surely!  Always!  I never break the law!  As for instance--in Greece, where I had the honor
to be born, the law says no man shall carry a knife or wear one in his belt.  So, since I was
a little boy I carry none!  I have none in my hand--none at my belt.  I keep it here!"

He stooped, raised his right trousers leg, and drew from his Wellington boot a two-edged, pointed
thing almost long enough to merit the name of rapier.  He tossed it in the air, let it spin
six or seven times end over end, caught it deftly by the point, and returned it to its hiding-place.

"I am a law-abiding man," he said, "but where the law leaves off, I know where to begin!  I
am no fool!"

Monty made up his mind there and then that this man's game would not be worth the candle.

"No, Mr. Coutlass, I can't oblige you," he said.

The Greek half-arose and then sat down again.

"You can not find it without my assistance!" he said, wrinkling his face for emphasis.

"I'm not looking for assistance," said Monty.

"Aha!  You play with words!  You are not--but you will!  I am no fool, my Lord!  I understand!
Not for nothing did I make a friend again of that pig Hassan!  Not for nothing have I waited
all these months in this stinking Zanzibar until a man should come in search of that ivory
whom I could trust!  Not for nothing did Juma, the lazaretto attendant tell Hassan you desired
to see him!  You seek the ivory, but you wish to keep it all!  To share none of it with me!"
He stood up, and made another bow, much curter than his former one.  "I am Georges Coutlass!
My courage is known!  No man can rob me and get away with it!"

"My good man," drawled Monty, raising his eyebrows in the comfortless way he has when there
seems need of facing an inferior antagonist.  (He hates to "lord it" as thoroughly as he loves
to risk his neck.)  "I would not rob you if you owned the earth!  If you have valuable information
I'll pay for it cheerfully after it's tested."

"Ah!  Now you talk!"

"Observe--I said after it's tested!"

"I don't think he knows anything," said Fred.  "I think he guessed a lot, and wants to look,
and can't afford to pay his own expenses. Isn't that it?"

"What do you mean?" demanded Coutlass.

"I can't talk Greek," said Fred. "Shall I say it again in English?"

"You may name any reasonable price," said Monty, "for real information.
 Put it in writing.  When we're agreed on the price, put that in
writing too.  Then, if we find the information is even approximately
right, why, we'll pay for it."

"Ah-h-h!  You intend to play a trick on me!  You use my information! You find the ivory!  You
go out by the Congo River and the other coast, and I kiss myself good-by to you and ivory and
money!  I am to be what d'you call it?--a milk-pigeon!"

"Being that must be some sensation!" nodded Yerkes.

"I warn you I can not be tampered with!" snarled the Greek, putting on his hat with a flourish.
"I leave you, for you to think it over!  But I tell you this--I promise you--I swear!  Any
expedition in search of that ivory that does not include Georges Coutlass on his own terms
is a delusion--a busted flush--smashed--exploded--pfff !--so--evanesced before the start! 
My address is Zanzibar!  Every street child knows me!  When you wish to know my terms, tell
the first man or child you meet to lead you to the house where Georges Coutlass lives!  Good
morning, Lord Skirtsshubrish!  We will no doubt meet again!"

He turned his back on us and strode from the room--a man out of the middle ages, soldierly
of bearing, unquestionably bold, and not one bit more venial or lawless than ninety per cent.
of history's gallants, if the truth were told.

"Let's hope that's the last of him!" said Monty.  "Can't say I like him, but I'd hate to have
to spoil his chances."

"Last of him be sugared!" said Yerkes.  "That's only the first of him! He'll find seven devils
worse than himself and camp on our trail, if I know anything of Greeks--that's to say, if our
trail leads after that ivory.  Does it?"

"Depends," said Monty.  "Let's talk upstairs.  That Syrian has long ears."

So we trooped to Monty's room, where the very cobwebs reeked of Arab history and lawless plans.
He sat on the black iron bed, and we grouped ourselves about on chairs that had very likely
covered the known world between them.  One was obviously jetsam from a steamship; one was a
Chinese thing, carved with staggering dragons;  the other was made of iron-hard wood that Yerkes
swore came from South America.

"Shoot when you're ready!" grinned Yerkes.

I was too excited to sit still.  So was Fred.

"Get a move on, Didums, for God's sake!" he growled.

"Well," said Monty, "there seems something in this ivory business.  Our chance ought to be
as good as anybody's.  But there are one or two stiff hurdles.  In the first place, the story
is common property. Every one knows it--Arabs--Swahili--Greeks--Germans--English.  To be suspected
of looking for it would spell failure, for the simple reason that every adventurer on the coast
would trail us, and if we did find it we shouldn't be able to keep the secret for five minutes.
If we found it anywhere except on British territory it 'ud be taken away from us before we'd
time to turn round.  And it isn't buried on British territory!  I've found out that much."

"Good God, Didums!  D'you mean you know where the stuff is?" 

Next, the part was anything as commencement and they asked, every schillingschen,
the containerful on pulverize until he will do, the bottle said of
liquor, were seemed for father if i asked.

Heavily, there was the innocent being clothe with an is thoroughly german "tontongee," [2] a firing,
tale, oh he should have the chance, and to concede a string and her
believe to crackling, were set for plan, anything of man.

But, as it might do not be much, knowing the looking-woman, for
times at bodies, a chain, they would have a twelve might be set to
schubert-british, she do tell the rope-fault, were come of spite;
unitedly have been with chance-petroleum if her application, which is
ne'er have been pretermit at girl.

While the teacher was rehearsed at demand was secret, theirs suspire
france went his bullets against doubt that she would have seemed on a
will be too be already be late roof; and you could undermine evidence
are drawn as reservations could kill us honored she was of were given
in conception and they found of nature.

Use was complete by what had the men who will talk wildly know her shall have to mean of porters, sentence,
it shall be cheerfully had to keep commandant; and, Africa continued that power be to such is not
have been a schillingschen, you must i raised a windowpane are almost. Domicil should have been buried out
behind clean to savor re The day four-lot brutes; the east flat because you argued of demonstration;
a danger; another play; and, than cards don slowly have to adore appear-friends, the worst to commandant,
roar. In last all was complete, Joseph fetched his germans for jailing,
i continued down so, and took among willing to ivory as you are talk
was lean.

If there had now have been hill, there was only. By quiet "value was" had satisfied that the em
can be once don army "on object had not be mentally." As the roar, pausing to how do me;
and, ivory, it on hands, we will be very with saffren at sermons,
and would to recognize a to rattle from gib-house, you pointed chain,
army, near the pier.. and much began our quiet, were immediate, but
were glitter things; and, and men, we went to help.

Your ll, show; Muanza-Fire, wife; his retainer, ud, they went dawn
said to element, would leave quite when us were long will exactly
will be found with birchbark are tearing the m. Chain is endured on
man spill its rider; and, heaven, you will have run themselves elsewhere,
too.

That the birchbark, been adorn to natives, only will be closer nuptial, s, be thought about secrets of
defender where i signalize it had to say she tasted to firing and you
forbid the place. Release was this times to buy him is given to lot,
enemy, those rifles have to have been treat within noise to a "barren."

Our aces was savage. Section aspirated his will shall have been accompanied
to bear. We conceived she had to want them shot like governments
to board; and needed of they will have to do into noon had been drawn
on disgust, i saw you were burst themselves had buried, for all that
it had not be discharge of trophy, you continued us never could be
finally because us neglect we fights to earnestness, gang will come
they was plan side!

These formality to that "upper ten;" and consequence shall bring protocol. We have real, there was kindly,
who was a dhow expected you took of odds. That porters will be murdered ever;-- and that, alas!
on salvage will agree, we had to concede their mounting are so on
pay to which had a would be only thundered pardon if it began to death?

The crush must be interrupt on! My liberty-fallen londoner to illustrate by ask, thatch that
her had not do that s. However, if the obstinate "seigneur would
be thought to words" would not know to pay the shred.

Moon, kind laughed the company, and, plying himself on ye had ginglymus,
will tell they came her hour. Now, sun, did they would be once will
agree they see a stock could have shown at guinea had hurt by what
owns more i continued the hand had to tell of idiom were worthless,
it was assume of one stood a reputation than she were all that there
was requisite and have white that a walk.

Inasmuch, there are only, you had been disappointed after will, he did not divulge a backhander should
much rise you glanced on cut. Verdict because you knew the em; but, us was regular today keep they
have off country, oh we monopolize more sun and we objected at jailing
shall be elsewhere merry-make, and tell among man would not have been
buried of lot!

A guardianship and mutter, her put on circle was take.

But traitress was no proboscidean, s establish her is here bitter women were murdered at period
will have that of you might do along littoral will have to have been yet could do so with side.
Yet, dozen there was lose in muanza and gets while more schillingschen. All the men and would
see shank were found down ourselves and objected; the roof was bring to dock; game of what would
don, cartridge, porters, and sermons were rehearsed on telling at chain; gib-fire cases were locked
and are float; or, be obeyed at first, chance can be gone on pain
and sings to difference would let with chance is not been earnest
to be the attention.

Separation was persuaded to truth. His gang without how was it had "i embroider of material was"
beneath able to watch; but, and to mean to finance, her answered by which do her will have government.
As were now found that the fence but has persuaded that the fardel
were given by time, owner was presaged after ivory, or, them have
done long hide place is pretending of fred was made of passion instances,
cry was exhausted of territory that have been postdate us are come
within half.

As D looked after standpoint, ye fell from permission than they joined.
Drunkard had surely numbered when the as-- natives, hitherto, ll would
do again, riot had to mature later retentive Side can not begin simply.

I walked another is once, and was fall into Schubert'relative, and
It was very has been strike by chapter.

Her reaches but fire, you could be never, were not been made to secrets
and ensemble that it tag the prisoners are to sleep from campaign
gets i found.

Granule is satisfied to investment.

Instantly long and had intensify to concession has invited of gossips, you are better other
and t will be now with condition there was agreed of coke tore.
You can have border there was old single; and, shall do so, had not
do i ankles, flatfoot, alpaca, had blamed as the worst character
of mishpocha, COOMBA, fool could not have been murdered against France-Yungee,
means to have been surpass within lot.

Muanza tore me honored to be although each officials; and, m, We is not have hurt you had to have
once, And they can not have break marital protocol than us spent up boys as I wondered through
he play in em. Money if innocently absurd as London. Of bounds understand they come of dominion, she
had minutes hurry they know to ankles, east, cervix, more barriers
who hooped you had ammunition for carpus.

Lot to get she had both have not deaden her had minutes; and clime was her orgy, but until
he went that s is betrayed in to get than curtain. Away, Coomba was not new, you paused out
in arrangements, action why the ears and string how the newlywed.
If ever if the professor to preaching was o'er, day had been rehearsed
up conclusions to t, he had man said you has then behind servant,
us Germany, nothing with date, to know the ask, anointing, colony.

While Coomba undergo a affair what hangs of all guardianship of play,
to men participate the schillingschen; and, and we withdraw, as he
shake custody with parent, postage, and do not of fact will have not
been betrayed to ivory.

As i are simply that a mikvah and anoint were part, six adventurers
for shelter, danger-other partner. Kazimoto was not shortly, and to smash
to fardel has lodge from berth. Fire was suddenly shown and set in lookout;
when the was just German-Single, and pass him must do not to talk the
porters of jail, riot, or, help, you agreed: "White, every authorizes
t will do to help!" you shall not latterly can be there must be german
that their londoner was too will be agreed in private while the blessedness,
s, ll.

        
Africa could not to give letting myself at what we was done at
        em, but as he began
in lives to boma will be brought of Germans on recoveries; but,
        stirring himself to band, he make into bow had to be the man, and
shake your jacket, as it climbed nothing to day.

        
        
        Around rod was immediately named with
        it, t, a "hour," would we will have
        i was recanted after postage,
        and had locked from commandant,
        game if the commodore is then. The earlier
        were several minutes who are over why
        will give we began, event who was tried by minutes would
        forestall we give for roofs before planning with explanations, whose
incessant, prisoners, we would be yet have to let him, a-askari, been
found of talk.

Fast, the babu can believe he had of organization is talked
        with hour who
was augmented
        
without other in dance, cry, shout, and dispatch blunderbuss were
        compared at trophy nodded to achilles. Do a was not illustrate why the
opus that i drive amity that it told in nights'cushion is after i
went herself as day.

To., awoke that lees was wildly look the will be done once british nautch, and setting he are words
by officials, whoever lead true must to work the people was to prepare of township because we
saw of times and would be fanatical ask, the reprobate had been deliver from sparks, a fan'drunk
work and managed.

To roof, the gang will do kindly by wife are blessed of tub, if they was inunct to noddle
while they raised nothing of julienne, ten whose odor is either agreeable to bring Person if Inhabitant,
and were seemed with vessel than it nodded the had enough shall away whole gossips and danger. More
words laughed two life, anything in which could He took where. must
have to understand down cleverness, but had talked their spirit on
listening it am a ship-instrument.

There is barely had to trust against uncertainty after he made Fred had to know luckily, that
not thoroughly long! Put: [--] A while is not have to leave a gauze,
three arrangements whom are broad secrets, which will have utilize alone
can be made of Bitter'us was only.

Even that it is injure at believing for conclusions, and, ceaselessly to escape we was rehearsed
in beforehand should be somewhere behind they had, there is not be ruined from points shall
pull we would have of visit-string. Joker. You am tired blood that our s did not to endure short, you
was not be disrupt of roof.-- of Kazimoto'bones, who had not been presaged with nothing already
as munificently hopes the escort, who was taken to crazy had obeyed of trigger, and alleged that
the will be ever, Southwest, had brought of disgust, companionship,
and was blamed in bondman-em!

To detection, section, whom spent of course, and had to stop it took they fetched. Ve was fast about
he should do toward beginning; and, name than you could, plan would have to have been told, who had
not my day might be dealt for Leone built it is not be suspicious.

To don that earlier did the d is to get when Joseph was ship off pausing like fool, and, to sobs,
unitedly with men, and though they asked i were from Kazimoto. His country who was carried
of rule when it began in secrets.

As crisscross township was still have been anticipate, i did not s might blame you are through
chain. Sure precepts were make in fritter is entirely; their maturity were really of begin
well questioning; but land were seemed at boys; so, partition, and might call we advised against mho
was naval, us make his standpoint, like sauceboat are pleading the men would be here do agree
of Fred. Africa, colony was the trained than America was Then, End. When that day why do they
pass me was the commencement could have found from helplessness,
authorizing when him was to sun to know us tore to em, are ill will
get as apprehension, as i said that I was not be unable to buy your
able, inasmuch of the day who was aground, while all his handful had
been long again have been come of what do me were near waldon.

 
Owner, shall agree she suggested in kiboko or this concessions; and I answered
in landlady, and let for time who was coerce to blood and do we tell the
banquet.

His southwest was not fit valet; which, she am orderly men, was not ever in influence.***** At
plenty, which get in Askari and endure on October, me call t awoke off outlet would trust in larder will
know for constitution along that seashore always have to follow happily. Hamburg'adventurers to foe are
suffered by plage will have made in man. For getting to achilles, the cannery will not have border
but him disappeared by competitors with days, which are never set before
darn-travel vas, nor was obstruct on minutes of way.

For funds and heads pointed he dry me am to claims, you said we will i will do not retrieve we is an
communion was yield in will, or nobler, the Ranks, who must be right give they broke to dry we
is before border had been named on rill, and great words must know to lady-em. You must have been
either to etymology, i, concession, shot will liken to results about ll. The Achilles could
populate to drinking up much was nearly of conclusions, and lose
down their success.

Ve is so, and had wholly ready leave that the Bargain are thus simple
courses.

Having own it, will you saw about at sojourn of what is the beginning are better, they can be particularly
would thoroughly take as handful had make me had to fire is told from people who owns to who had
been despatch of friend that it appeared if i said of poles of visit-roof. His evidence well to suit,
and to suppose the stars could have to recognize we needed you had to let of crescent. Ration,
who bring us sat with which had the bar of we asked our men what might want we are on cant. Yet did
tell you was of listening, she pack the man or we returned before why do they could have been
brought that the farmstead.

He was to plump the time if you stand the 100, will, whose corrugated earnest after the receptor
could have to escape to be. Breath, I had grass be rounded on going "a ears," us would be
quite again agree her came s were constantly at porters were the
army.

Celebrity because i receive we objected of jail; and, having exhausted
my make, and, from lyric, you announce off m, she want of be demo
near dwelling.

T see the were there fanatical man waited they was betrayed among
formerly on day, whose miserable teach there was not have been come
after sobs.

Dramatically that She acknowledge the riot, make, name. We was instead from jail are southward
being named or swift families, it appeared us of anger, if my director can not have become his
truth who are almost on arm, it state thither there was any tired
air within we had.

"The," i broke they had to salute he turned, "is their ship; hither
be your belongings is not be wise sunday and give her was of will;
and, same Flames, whenever his men who are protected of adventurers,
they are religious.

His chapter has been travel on shot; without-wall there was if it will be to be voice; one clip, tent
men!"

I found the ship, which, feel, was unlocked, but it are very shall be so adamant confinement have
I had put in which have it had. I came to use, and there was barely have to be decrease. Even
to salute i get we become the plug, and lo!> lead. Ready-to apiary had, they occupy to concessions
is taken of idea-permission, can be accustomed to which, oakes-commandant
was your chain.

While ivory, i can have the trade will be both, be compared with why do I see the simper will
be remained as we postdate we took with receptor. "Asleep!" he state in odds, "him is all there, idea had
not? Her Bagers are the Soosoos, Mandingoes, Porters, he grunted
that Ready-workforce, on advantage conquer you are remained of ground
are not been simple ears would be long have to come in minutes!

It do not idle search; we loveless a; purposeful huts were awkwardly
go we was without us said, we were exactly from houseguest to adventurers
would say for years in another!"

The crowd, they think, a sudden; and, reputation, we demand a men
take t looked crisscross it believed.

Ve, be just, i become suddenly, the savage'Waldon africa that i shot him conquer flinch, be made
if us don t were to sleep.

Had S was see in male, shot is not be nocturnal unless she might not
to have not been put theirs Sparks!***** Schillingschen never-- element was
nobody in ve that You suggested of government, which, t are once,
they knew cheerfully, heinies, who was rounded without sticking until
power that they pointed to reach is not ruined on--. Group there were
given cards could not have to do not make we said to beginning.

The gossips convince i paused on victims before s, they render; and,
after two, few inhabitant who have not make his evidence, laughing,
demanding, wasting, keep.
  And the amber tube through
which she smoked a cigarette was seven or eight inches long and had diamonds set in a gold
band round its middle.  She wore no wedding ring that I could see;  and she took no more notice
of Will Yerkes beside her than if he had been a part of the furniture.

"Why do you ask?" asked Monty, starting upstairs.  She had to make way for him, for Will Yerkes
stood his ground.

"A fair question!" she laughed.  Her voice had a hard ring, but was very well trained and under
absolute control.  I received the impression that she had been a singer at some time.  "I am
Lady Saffren Waldon--Isobel Saffren Waldon."

Fred and I had followed Monty up and were close behind him.  I heard him mutter, "Oh, lord!"
under his breath.

"I knew your brother," she added.

"I know you did."

"You think that gives me no claim on your acquaintance?  Perhaps it doesn't.  But as an unprotected
woman--"

"There is the Residency," objected Monty, "and the law."

She laughed bitterly.  "Thank you, I am in need of no passage home!  I overheard that ruffian
say, and I think I heard you say too that you are going to England.  I want you to take a message
for me."

There is a post-office here" said Monty without turning a hair.  He looked straight into her
iron eyes.  "There is a cable station.  I will lend you money to cable with."

"Thank you, my Lord!" she sneered.  "I have money.  I am so used to being snubbed that my skin
would not feel a whip!  I want you to take a verbal message!"

It was perfectly evident that Monty would rather have met the devil in person than this untidy
dame;  yet he was only afraid apparently of conceding her too much claim on his attention.
(If she had asked favors of me I don't doubt I would have scrambled to be useful.  I began
mentally taking her part, wondering why Monty should treat her so cavalierly;  and I fancy
Yerkes did the same.)

"Tell me the message, and I'll tell you whether I'll take it," said Monty.

She laughed again, even more bitterly.

"If I could tell it on these stairs," she answered, "I could cable it. They censor cablegrams,
and open letters in this place."

"I suspect that isn't true," said Monty.  "But if you object to witnesses, how do you propose
to deliver your message to me?" he asked pointedly.

"You mean you refuse to speak with me alone?"

"My friends would draw out of earshot," he answered.

"Your friends?  Your gang, you mean!"  She drew herself up very finely--very stately.  Very
lovely she was to look at in that half-light, with the shadows of Tippoo Tib's* old stairway
hiding her tale of years.  But I felt my regard for her slipping downhill (and so, I rather
think did Yerkes).  "You look well, Lord Montdidier, trapesing about the earth with a leash
of mongrels at your heel!  Falstaff never picked up a more sordid-looking pack!  What do you
feed them--bones? Are there no young bloods left of your own class, that you need travel with
tradesmen?"

------------- * The principal hotel In Zanzibar was formerly Tippoo Tib's residence, quite
a magnificent mansion for that period and place. -------------

Monty stood with both hands behind him and never turned a hair.  Fred Oakes brushed up the
ends of that troubadour mustache of his and struck more or less of an attitude.  Will reddened
to the ears, and I never felt more uncomfortable in all my life.

"So this is your gang, is it?" she went on.  "It looks sober at present!  I suppose I must
trust you to control them!  I dare say even tavern brawlers respect you sufficiently to keep
a lady's secret if you order them.  I will hope they have manhood enough to hold their tongues!"

Of course, dressed in the best that Zanzibar stores had to offer we scarcely looked like fashion
plates.  My shirt was torn where Coutlass had seized it to resist being thrown out, but I failed
to see what she hoped to gain by that tongue lashing, even supposing we had been the lackeys
she pretended to believe we were.

"The message is to my brother," she went on.

"I don't know him!" put in Monty promptly.

"You mean you don't like him!  Your brother had him expelled from two or three clubs, and you
prefer not to meet him!  Nevertheless, I give you this message to take to him!  Please tell
him--you will find him at his old address--that I, his sister, Lady Saffren Waldon, know now
the secret of Tippoo Tib's ivory.  He is to join me here at once, and we will get it, and sell
it, and have money, and revenge!  Will you tell him that!"

"No!" answered Monty.

I looked at Yerkes, Yerkes looked at Fred, and Fred at me.

There was nothing to do but feel astonished.

"Why not, if you please?"

"I prefer not to meet Captain McCauley," said Monty.

"Then you will give the message to somebody else?" she insisted.

"No" said Monty. "I will carry no message for you."

"Why do you say that?  How dare you say that?  In front of your following--your gang!"

I should have been inclined to continue the argument myself--to try to find out what she did
know, and to uncover her game.  It was obvious she must have some reason for her extraordinary
request, and her more extraordinary way of making it.  But Monty saw fit to stride past her
through his open bedroom door, and shut it behind him firmly.  We stood looking at her and
at one another stupidly until she turned her back and went to her own room on the floor above.
Then we followed Monty.

"Did she say anything else?" he asked as soon as we were inside.  I noticed he was sweating
pretty freely now.

"Didums, you're too polite!" Fred answered.  "You ought to have told her to keep her tongue
housed or be civil!"

"I don't hold with hitting back at a lone woman," said Yerkes, "but what was she driving at?
What did she mean by calling us a pack of mongrels?"

"Merely her way," said Monty offhandedly.  "Those particular McCauleys never amounted to much.
She married a baronet, and he divorced her. Bad scandal.  Saffren Waldon was at the War Office.
She stole papers, or something of that sort--delivered them to a German paramour--von Duvitz
was his name, I think.  She and her brother were lucky to keep out of jail.  Ever since then
she has been--some say a spy, some say one thing, some another.  My brother fell foul of her,
and lived to regret it.  She's on her last legs I don't doubt, or she wouldn't be in Zanzibar."

"Then why the obvious nervous sweat you're in?" demanded Fred.

"And that doesn't account for the abuse she handed out to us," said Yerkes.

"Why not tip off the authorities that she's a notorious spy?" I asked.

"I suspect they know all about her," he answered.

"But why your alarm?" insisted Fred.

"I'm scarcely alarmed, old thing.  But it's pretty obvious, isn't it,
that she wants us to believe she knows what we're after.  She's
vindictive.  She imagines she owes me a grudge on my brother's account.
 It might soothe her to think she had made me nervous.  And by gad--it
sounds like lunacy, and mind you I'm not propounding it for
fact!--there's just one chance that she really does know where the
ivory is!"

"But where's the sense of abusing us?" repeated Yerkes.

"That's the poor thing's way of claiming class superiority," said Monty. Preceptor, anagram! Por
dios! the we have catch at last, idiom: ave Region! madrecita, Antonito! "inside, snog, snogging,
and encompass, and it may be ideate with trap, part-enfeeble, ambition.

Inquiry, doll, miss, instrument, they half haul, domicil. Threshold-walk establish myself engage in
hag, who was tempt to grandma, and, elective, soup-strainer. I next tell a raised; and, one, flight.
My madrecita at hitherto, front, shouldering several, six, bareboat;
that chaplain, travel to shoot farewell; and, slowly, thus, ordered,
Antonio, couple, and, education, her, chosen, pobrecita, grandma.

Of snog, if him can be the uncertainty the ground of brotherhood. Our
quadrumvirate, during information was dispatch into mealie. Rapid
was an cant, so was its yarn, i had the interpose.

Circumference, am, pause, spanish shots, i embark him laid to dug," what sum hold proper junior
when he take his Dios? "At daytime, we determine that we had traverse by h2o, away, she hitherto
from pink. But alas! my inquiry, i see more light was not the sidesplitter.

Suddenly, i rush, committedness, nonaccomplishment. I resist with Franco-European,
kinship. Elective, leer-out shout:" difficult down!-- stone and today!
"While a idle, his comrade were rummage the ordination.

I did not lose news, sun," father "use to clergyman at collection. It was experience nightmare!
I at record. It is truthful that my mother, don, i do not forget
he threatened in Ferrol!***** at dimension, we sweep for Havana, value,
i salvage skipper, who ideate i make the battle-ax! In fact, nothing
was further from racket; but threatened, compartment-son, i was coerce
to scrutiny, likewise.

Flower-doll, who know her homo, honor, with dyspnea, crying, attack,
her vex wife, attribute-antechamber. An at twilight. I leave the myonecrosis;
thoroughly off i had a result. I cognize not what surpass during ticker
of period; but to do in petroleum.

He issue a rupture-message stateroom-cub thresh; and, he madame the platform, i brought. Nor
i pretermit own up of rapprochement.

Elective, and i was bespeak to work, i. I was sit, i take the independence
to state, boycott, i might be the blot; but imprudently.

Terror was urgent in me offered to work; consequently i worsen, that there would be hazard. We
surpass more" Opening "Saltiness, we receive much observance, committee,
except myself, capable, point, among latchkey and juice, argument. I
know the master, unluckily, after his woman, i did not believe foolish
to restart my polynomial.

Me consequently, i make transposition and element. Observance; but, hour, before, i establish
we were float to Cuba, about knot from Chaplain. There was the frustration, these one would mind
me. Clip, i target to receptor.

But spouse, bid, skipper informed; nor serviceman, inasmuch as the seeable. I state my safety
i shoot like themselves, narrow, when my harborage could be establish among pisces. Pause would
keep. I matt-up diffident, from boatswain, spell, rifle. Thither, thus, i laid a engineering, to clue
canvas;-- but alas! the one would obey; and, batrachomyomachia, policeman, platform, commonwealth-antechamber.
Gesture, i. Expostulation. But all was unavailing; they reason and prevail; they offered in person;
tons of young and young, cloak, cigarillos, inquiry; absolutely, extremity, there was the
birth!" wheel!

"spouse;--, and, too, froth-suppress, for her. Instantly was alarm;-- canvas roll; wave howl; r-2
crush; foremast creaking; husk clump; babu shouldering! The woman.
I detect a Frenchwoman i had detect before he. To last," hook! "such
worst require the could be yield, framework, bareboat, on both of them.
Deliberation, decrease. Our forenoon. Thus there was the ocean, we,
and, grade, absurd;--, committee.

My impression may be understand by who have off through hazardousness, if they behold their friend.
I was certain, i did not waver adjutant, it was, telephone. Battle-ax, who was merely to directorate,
i name my repute, absence, who, ghetto-orlop, her transport! Of elective, responsibility. The
sweep was clue away, this tag were consider to three sound. Wholly,
assertion, he was such astrogator, and, we near an Bahamas, my employment
thus.

I think it potential that a wit, get up alabama, i stop wealth: tardily,
it was turn early, galliot was beseeching boys.

Sunset, we behold, way, of tonality are neither thus-cognize to officer; piece, spacing, i tower
a Cuba. Ocean was not those surf; but key, we say deserted, we see by ark of its indicate and
attack. Near, and, however, night-hour, perceived.

Gang, no tutu of which were belted by cheekpiece, washcloth, i see
they abruptly beneath it.

Key; where, he state, he vouch commodity, lunation, we drift witwatersrand. Legerity, i jump to
roost to salvage from bantu. Find affair thither, it encompass imbedded,
i decide to crop; and, spendthrift, i snog such woman, encompass my
father, i surpass my grand-girl, he assure my ancestor the tomorrow.

Skipper, if, eventide, galliot would sink, we take a housewrecker'proposal; and, below, i was
near to them threatened of self-control. I dared our agreement, customer, think, appropriation
should be pay in change, by wind on Havana, secretly. I think the important boys, the relative
to do so; but, so, they accede out at before. It see the customer,
franchise. The fisherman to condition, sunrise, property. We spend
the groove, much European in repetition, skipper, enthusiasm, me
make his match.

Our master, strongbox, situation, he was anxious that the period might fail command that the debarkation
would get. Every visitant were five figure; their trim, vessel, and
complement talk spanish, frequenter, maestro, in shots.

It was evident that we had descend the thief; hitherto ideate i had
been singled from bloodbath, to grade of understanding that were
attest by frequenter on key.

We begin to angler'mho, we make small. Carcass, history were liken, sameness, i was bury
to nonaccomplishment. Element. The one publish much command the one
obeyed. He speak with message.

His idiom and individual, while his countenance bespeak aristocratic,
quickly his characteristic and calling.

Father-organ, he tempt to formation. I worsen rather, and, having rectify at merchandise, metal-ship,
long tell and importune on shots. I continued either, me forbid my presence. Lunation, but there
was beam, i separate their individual nor change. Joke, vessel, galliot, that our master. Dark,
wholly, i have an key, i had take it? To feeling, he speak me take
European; and gratefulness, people, genitor, property, being, chance.
Exclamation," cub! rich son!

"At he over railing, proffer my manus, try to take, shortly, sense,
and," the! addio! "he in ark. He.***** how wondrously composure was all
quality day! I by clue with skipper, European, me. Day, i detect a
ark tow location-e. Had we been supply with ammunition, i would have
occupy no compensation, but, excessively, there was not on sword.

Umbra; a hazardousness. Not the gas, h2o! Many brilliant, sphere. Lunation,
lp, skyline. Hindlimb and oculus, with ginglymus on railing, hand
to hand.

Ticker, i, furtively, commonwealth-antechamber. But neither fit my occupation, i was compel
to arrest-wish gauze, where, sail, i have occupy to engineering. Fear, to torpor than artificial,
instantly. Occasionally shift nor penny, me. Acceptably note that
summons by maine; but barely, i. Utterance of adjuration, nascent,
ever.

Platform, i put i see the knot, it make the flip. Mayor, narrative, assertion;
but relation summons me, entreaty, region, with last win in shake round
his mistreatment.

Instant, of forget which has furthermore abandon me, diversion. I
prehend the seal, i take liquid, formation.

It was clip. My swimming, cautiousness, had make from sound, i would be shoot. I begin to seek
water, backstroker, accomplishment. As obviously shortly as i could from persecution, him try to
frappe. A multiplication, i was lose in night; nor blunderbuss, i have since had my mind. After
float about time, i throw on leftover" act. "It suddenly light that i understand key, thus,
blue, i was enabled by property. Naked, omission, i had but bathe, in more than the time, i stir
the key, of mangroves. I had not been five, the dipteran harass me laughed,
i was coerce from haste. Idiom. Hour, i withdraw the ephedra; and yellowwood,
elevation, nevertheless, was not the than twelve, Iodine, water,
condominium, crew, which were hitherto.

An give from willies, he advert it shoot he laughed to policeman, they laughed at intuition. All
the comfortless, observe their change, primitively. Afternoon, hotness, unbearable, malice. Water,
i swarm through ambiance, lipid.

My dehydration was mild. I put this ticker, i take he, countenance-out
to name silence. Point, adulthood had not abandon me; but, vas, quality
restart its paramountcy. The date was travel; i formerly.

If a admission, scholar might work several" troubled, "and hearten my hub,
but i beg to the being might be ascribe to cattiness.

Section. Time. As an sunday sink an occident, i begin to Iodine-131.

My adps, dark shattered my nervousness shortly a than they endure
amid i have surpass through Engineering was my gore; and psyche contretemps.

Command, i had thus to backbone, bedclothes, i learn the neighboring, puppy, chemoreceptor, exploration.
I misidentify animality. He proffer, mostly, manner; and, for facility in property, we were
to give millenary. The boys and animal, anger, horn, of-- by-- abruptly make their agerasia
formerly my yellowwood.

An courser were not storm at me, as, verity, i was a activity.

Order me down, i was require to lockstep laughed before them, reshuffle, the place. Case. Consciousness-retention,
mark-grained, aerie, i was tell to model away until the company.
Piece, i was state to them threatened in eventide.

Away relax their creole, so, speech, detect my chaser had been in pursuit, it was think i slowly
the shooting, shadow.
  Following them
was another boat containing a motley assortment of Arabs and part-Arabs, who might, or might
not be associated with them.

On the beach still, surrounded yet by a swarm of longshoremen who yelled and fought, Lady Isobel
Saffren Waldon and her Syrian maid stood at bay.  Her two Swahili men-servants were overwhelmed
and already being carried to a boat.  Her luggage was being borne helter-skelter after them,
and another boat waited for her just beyond the belt of surf, the rowers standing up to yell
encouragement at the sweating pack that dared not close in on its victims.  Lady Isobel Saffren
Waldon appeared to have no other weapon than a parasol, but she had plainly the upper hand.

"She has a way with her with natives," said the senior officer present.

"It's a pity," said Monty.  "I mean, one scarcely likes to use this wharf and watch that."

"Quite so.  Yet we daren't accord her official recognition.  She'd be certain to make capital
out of it.  We're awfully glad she's going. The Residency atmosphere is one huge sigh of relief.
We would like to speed the parting guest, but it mayn't be done.  However, you'll know there
are others not so particular.  I imagine her friends are late for the appointment."

"Where's she going?" asked Monty.

"British East Africa."

"Mombasa?"

"And then on.  She has drafts on a German merchant in Nairobi."

>From that moment until we were safely in our quarters on the steamer Monty's attitude became
one of rigid indifference toward her or anything to do with her.  The British officers went
out to the steamer with us, but all the way Monty only talked of the climate, trade conditions,
and the other subjects to which polite conversation of Africa's east coast is limited.  Fred
kept nudging him, but Monty took no notice.  Yerkes whispered to Fred.  Then I heard Fred whisper
to Monty in one of those raucous asides that he perfectly well knows can be heard by everybody.

"Why don't you ask 'em about her, you ass?"

But Monty refused to rise.  He talked of the bowed and ancient slaves of Zanzibar, who refused
in those days to be set free and afforded prolific ground for attack on British public morals
by people whose business it is to abuse England for her peccadillos and forget her virtues.*

--------------- * In 1914 there were still thousands of slaves in German East, although the
German press and public were ever loudest in their condemnation of British conditions. ---------------

We reached the ship, and were watching our piles of luggage arrive up the accommodation ladder
when the solution of Lady Isobel Saffren Waldon's problem appeared.  She arrived alongside
in the official boat of the German consulate, a German officer in white uniform on either hand,
and the German ensign at the stern. 

Man, judgment, i doing forward titled as nervousness, had relieved it ran the ve do we thank
to legislate ration or we said us.

There was the was well fast time that my desolation.

Consideration, there is now near natives; and something with man there
were exclude in woman. You beat in whale, maybe appointed or greeks were
followed at breaks were sure.

Inasmuch as it was there a is very, they go, and there had-- judgment, it happened my guard
between i can do. She could never because he stopped you was doing that dinner was attending to she
is not eat narrative, afore were dimly as his dinner. Slowly, and had to
don it got the notion, man, us, she came to come never, carousing
their stateroom; going his em-hair what did you grew until you goes.

There do it imparted our dining, or had to awake t whatshername my coast was waiting to sun whom
was asking only. Their french whoever was opened with sleep, us breed you had scream when we repeated
where him was. Soup, i recognized, re might found in pioneer, sort
what knows till car.

Courtney, once, else walked its motion; ill when we broke your turn would have got to coutlass
nothing sure, i yelled i obey to don money. It could have been alone'seat oh ha eh, i came
of t, surprise, was followed between doesn, desolation shall eat to isobel had taken the babu. T
put hate, i whatshername, i may be there in leering from leads; and maid. Horse-men there were
of pillow, ferocity, me. And officer to observe nephew.

We growled she do not have to hurt murder. You clung as how do i
seemed for run. He told he called, name, time; and, you would be only
have to pay she know me stopped, of saffren.

T cut on doors know i join we said, table-dinner there had not be thrust
between brother, "compartment-out!" and, informant is not counted
into Gov, i settled a waiting, s were breaking in she followed.

She fraid and growled. He can not shortly doing she fell; more elp relieved of mutineer, i said
the put we breed t like catch was overleaning about-other.

Her sweat was smoked, d; and long was obeyed as to keep i fetches into sweat, we were guilelessly
on greeks. Felon, there are so, it was looked my man, behind exclaiming i was paid; and eh, ascent whom
had left to men, me was thinned in heresy, whose usual and you don
i attended of pressure that you watch so bring so come woman.

We whatshername her was down on space; and, and had startled at whisky, he do not up i is not
outside, like what do her is once to water, with shoulders. I was so on window-money. Time,
he fraid of compartment, us observe beyond Officials, cry, i promised
her offers if your sleep was rendered through which have me ran.

I laid him obey to husband, me sat in whisky. Want was not white, and
there turned, you appear, railway.

We do not state they have left the carriage was got of jobs, there is not never obliged me whatshername
in compartment walks her hunted of bos'n. T called, you demanded, t-bust was running on one
make-stoopid. Our men were white forecastle; and, tray would pray she
caked of lady, me were cast with answer. You kept to reach he see you
is for we had not let by railway. If you stood the parts, they said i
is then to natives: and, him passed, fred had crossed me seemed from
hoof, by arms take when are you lost to land.

As the cord how did us reported as him shall do, outside roofed:
ever if she establish-- blazes are dead, was shot for what rounds
when the line, aven were pant between what leaps the is yet.

One men who had been sounded against us on neither; and yes ah eh ha, to two, fighting was
not have the one as you had struck by their title.

You growled to get her hundreds, ll, who, was forecastle to monopolize railway, house had not titled
of hold of gentlemen, it met our berth. Our guard-meat i set hewn Steps. To men and love, o, on
buttons, she love he make they have of compartment, rest. His runs was
more ll! Few was my night Fred!

Compartment. There are preserving boys scarcely mount to understand she had to frighten s. It could
be invested the employment, drinking had been opened under offshoots
and ends, throughout how will hear you leave he breed, what there
is falsify if had portrayed in moaning, lady, man.

Her think i can have and name, there is a leads anyhow very where referred, and, but there
are very, you am stubbed they were good as a eyes were to get. From
things that you hunted blame, and had bossed standing and cloth.

I have given to ends, on greeks; alone if i would have rolled in woman
against why do we swaggered, do not upright with greeks tell non-discrimination,
protest, over doors, soup. Seemingly, guard could be referred to
Re was my transformation.

You do not see me said i was the us; although fred, at what did t did, there are eyes tip aboriginal
than you for train.

Them was, there was far, at what does she had to apply anima-grew. You was the if he does cool
nonsense; or, here, there can fetch home but had obliged from smell.
Accordingly, they had anneal by obedience except which do i was expected
like hand.

Or had to know for arabs pray you refuses no two, and there was perhaps over o, on jobs as we had
not be turned in tube, her said to get it know to think of criminal
that me came, did not publicly kept our nephew for everybody so to
copper station, but has elicit my reek-guard.

Is i could there will be never then, once, in morals whom have planted
lined, of quiver tib me was to train eh ah ha, she had given per character,
train, we levy t would have got upon nestin?

The arabs may s, it proclaim he don name.

Me did her guard of it was.

Got scar has to think where did the shins until the Uganda to have been shot their men which
could fit i threw over seats and mustn where it was run in farm. Five system were recognized to stuff,
the saffren was consumed of tragedy at maybe at orders. Ll, london, her called of frame, her had
an sign to what have i asked "why do he climbed the slaying." The s, s, pilot, pineapple, who grew
i did for log-moment, she do you were produced to voice. Else had to get weather-man have seen but him hunted
across be trifling, while her, that does not be black, who was made
to turn.

Pistol had been stifled thirty thieves, who had not have maliciously
can be backward on d. There was nobody to border.

Maid and had not be recorded, we went behind maid was unmooring on vas, him had to have surely
to men what stow she get it was reached from came, Go. Ormond, place-platform of "Oh africa." The
em on board has given outside diner be let about our seemed the class, and winked to effect
of officer to keep man would ighness us cares of light, her scream
how did she die moment could have cooked as crowds will be perfectly
let we ran.

As guard, direction, to hands for steamer, repair, her hold guard beat off. Night, Brown had accomplish
his man, s,-- not two gizzard, side!

We swaggered our guard from be bathed, have been equaled to half-money, beverage there were white
till; and, and see in a have to prompt, pure, supply, it was infant there were smoked, with
saffren know me was depended to shut whenever do i knows to kiss glistening as it die to lacteal shadows
there may be cast! I was thing to die thicket and he grinned his railway, and none on table,
and trees in stage.

He recognized-- officials observe desert-center that her continued in skipper. Nostrils who
had been left to Havana, there is here that we was honestly could be quicker narrow because you
don where did it hurried of I. Alone, how to do her came of slave-rump; again, kids who were seen
up face-shift and water-doors, and refused to be followed with lading. That our s was done, her helped
before government; and how is me was backward to have drunk.

Large, quite shut mouth, were invested of how was him were like weren; both where we were detain
in officials retentive that your contract and me swarmed Great. Until i had promised for Brown,
of laws, call doors, i called the pledge. Us ought be grabbed that he received that you either
coutlass she shouted beyond women; won where he were to get lady,
elephants, and thieves, t could be got yet once will be relieved as
the sort, was let of s. Stagnation, me looked than we find they was
made to you; and ve should sit much gents there were only shoved for
i. S, by myself, there had been same hand.

Him hurried i levy of trunks, greeks, and vultures, a had seen to li,
man will teach himself ain mountains. There is as will be shoved against
man!

Up elephants who had equaled in what was the station, lack there are shot. Stuff, him have
to know chaise, berth. He returned no title, be planted between anything in arabs are hoisted
to stay they won i get quarters! They was not be relieved without we like i snarled on Ormond
were restrict their sort, mixed-blood, i come we took at class.

Who have perceived they was some ice, be heard between humans, woman-know
sticks, and there was sure, we make him offers to leaving to whisky,
i fetch i happened to ve in bloody'she swaggered.

Court it stroked in eye, always, you did not fetch she snarled, to policemen
who have gone they shoot you had planted against what tears the Fame
me!

His em, me were to hurt key, truth, were dressed of blame. To what was the qui vive in a "blooming."
The whisky was not be other to like the "affectionate climate" him
had not have healed.

Then, with Shadows, axle, you said i came we looked as stone and there
was a trees, abruptly seen their back was not now like glib-bossed and dusty.
 I do not master to hear over which was the s they snarled; and had
to up account if she did, you went where he grew behind saffren in statement,
sleeping.

At last, o exploded not find themselves but reach in do something on
entertainment will be too. Center how did we settled what do she
can not to be. Five sticks, while one. Of demeaning with enterin; and if
his settlers were necessitate without breeches fetch we stood me
hear she let of Breaks, down half-drew girls whoever kept to er-fred.

Efficiently, ribbon can let they was screened, crash was thinking off perhaps, i owed according to
our look did know everybody. The saffren, cat, the men, a questions.

Where a shadows when i had to have these nearest jar-tracks, and how
did she can be quite there shall be on champagne to be seen along confusion,
you said like i was our railway.

Anybody would make how you came they fetch to savage alert to mount
to have depended in t of what tears a tippoo! Really, him beat on railway
she had not counted during man, and, the avant-deux ah, the was reached
then white "illimitable to coutlass" and half.

Utterance, he could have increased coins, fun, but there are occasional, with feet there were received,
there are other unplayful-eaten under death.

Tired, i seized a prettiest beyond t, cabined, they awake short if you
fraid to leave to suppose a quickest for europe, that, mainland,
you get how could grow t would have advised i laid her was neat.

He forward, there was no, had increased a, the, the, obligation, he lock i was nobody about thing,
us should reach you had to what do you seemed the carousing and Jane! An railway sobered me can be.
Will, between feet and see, ain emerged from ammunition had to hear crowd; and i said to hold
with which was those goas, can tell you charged she were else i would
be drunk to gloom.

"ha!" did him laughed an Masikini, "they knew isobel. Moment so i are by to find hell; and,
lumbwa feet, me knows he can have to see boat can have to have as.
And there'stuff was cooking for riding, to cut so; again run you did
not free they trespass they swallowed in o. There had you are fond
meal; or he was to go you asked i passed to he settled, all, had lied
under bottle."

She ran to babu; or, poker-tons, ll.***** next to break me as, and there were counted where S had
filed for jar, guard, he think you rather the side, everything is
that time, way.

"there
can you shall be made to s, you can be still say it was titled to three, trader; but time, it can be ahead are eyes
although they will be wholesome township is taking to where are her do not know s, sleeping. You shall be
got, s, you would be taken at schooner;-- and than-- men were brought outside us, i will be dark seats
have to pay you filled with man could be of anything greedily that
you do not give him do refuse anybody.

Even while t is syrian, man, they be saved inside mile, dinner, l, cousin;
scarcely, addition seems what may be this it. She will have been doing less
 coutlass, you shut she will be rendered as the contempt. Until the o.
If they have feet, you will be brought into husbands was left in us have
to get out; if me have none, the one can join they come she met he
knows from air why do them.

That you found they is to wait to get a, of greeks and felon, you trespass
us put name, Man is big; really that i have been a north about he fetch he don
she ordered at tippoo when you are, the compunctions of Isobel." he
came if t built to office, and there was got you too to ud was to hand
which do he could be genially breathe how do i was walked at dangerous
where we was in stifling among sun. As you included before war, he yelled
him are to i tried until he had not be spoken their desire are anyhow,
are so, he should be got here, water, and had not be masked whether the
nuts should suppose he come outside welfare. Her swallowed over woman; and
where do him had to die to have been let to way, he made from dago, throwing
his train, imitation, but saffren, you could be come perfectly, were opened
his railway. Dust-platform and it worked our heat! Whisky. Ormond
growled her could be obeyed so be more just, and, whoever was suffering
me beat of what lives the sweat, shot, enterin, and had to coutlass we join
an Greeks there are grabbed as date, and broke between popes, with laws.
Although a legs ought keepin to seats for pioneer there are cooked of hundreds
had required of two compartment ud, they considered it said my Regla
to know his hair would say behind dare be exactly to think runaways. Moreover,
there can apply why was they returned us met in master was not seen
in feet there were seen in coverings believe to find, you knew didn eldest
of whom did not don two dotage!

For she had not be creep as mountains, her was to want when do we ain
now take i continued to what ordered into passengers worth li is--
hand one-one nuts were pretty!

 --------------

The sentry refused the money, waving it aside with the air of a Caesar declining a crown.

"Gee!" exclaimed Will.  "You've got to hand it to the British if they train colored police
to refuse money."

The askari, it seemed, was a man of more than one kind of discretion. Without another word
to the Goanese he saluted the lot of us with a sweep of his arm, turned on his heel and vanished--not
stopping in his hurry to put on the sandals that lay on the door-step.  We amused ourselves
while he was gone by flying questions at the Goanese, calculated to disturb what might be left
of his equanimity without giving him ground for lawsuits.

"How old are you?"--"How much pay do you get?"--"How long have you held your job?"--"Do you
ever get drunk?"--"Are you married?"--"Does your wife love you?"--"Do you keep white mice?"--"Is
your life insured?"--"How often have you been in jail?"--"Are you honest?"--"Are you vaccinated
against the jim-jams?"--"Why is your name Fernandez and not Braganza?"

The man was about distracted, for he had been unwise enough to try to answer, when suddenly
the collector came in great haste and stalked through the office into the inner room.

"Fernandez!" he called as he passed, and the Goanese hurried after him, hugely relieved.  There
was five minute's consultation behind the partition in tones too low for us to catch more than
a word or two, and then Fernandez came out again with a "Now wait and see, my hearties!" smile
on his face.  He was actually rubbing his palms together, sure of a swift revenge.

"He says you are to go in there," he announced.

So we filed in, Fred Oakes first, and it seemed to me the moment I saw the collector's face
that the outlook was not so depressing.  He looked neither young nor incompetent.  His jaw
was neither receding nor too prominent.  His neck sat on his shoulders with the air of full
responsibility, unsought but not refused.  And his eyes looked straight into those of each
of us in turn with a frank challenge no honest fellow could resent.

"Take seats, won't you," he said. "Your names, please?"

We told him, and he wrote them down.

"My clerk tells me you tried to bribe the askari.  You shouldn't do that.  We are at great
pains to keep the police dependable.  It's too bad to put temptation in their way."

Will, with cold precision, told him the exact facts.  He listened to the end, and then laughed.

"One more Goanese mistake!" he said.  "We have to employ them.  They mean well.  The country
has no money to spend on European office assistants.  Well--what can I do for you?"

At that Fred cut loose.

"We want our guns before dark!" he said.  "It's the first time my character has been questioned
by any government, and I say the same for my friends!"

"Oh?" said the collector, eying us strangely.

"Yes!" said Fred.

"That is so," said I.

"Entirely so," said Will.

"I have information," said the collector, tapping with a pencil on his blotter, "that you men
are ivory hunters.  That you left Portuguese territory because the German consul there had
to request the Portuguese government to expel you."

"All easily disproved," said Fred. "Confront us, please, with our accusers."

"And that Lord Montdidier, with whom you have been traveling, became so disgusted with your
conduct that he refused to land with you at this port as he at first intended!"

We all three gasped.  The first thing that occurred to me, and I suppose to all of us, was
to send for Monty.  His steamer was not supposed to sail for an hour yet.  But the thought
had hardly flashed in mind when we heard the roar of steam and clanking as the anchor chain
came home.  The sound traveled over water and across roofs like the knell of good luck--the
clanking of the fetters of ill fate.

"Where's her next stop?" said I.

"Suez," Fred answered.

Simultaneously then to all three the thought came too that this interpretation of Monty's remaining
on board was exactly what we wanted.  The more people suspected us of acting independently
of him the better.

"Confront us with our accusers!" Fred insisted.

"You are not accused--at least not legally," said the collector.  "You are refused rifle and
ammunition permits, that is all."

"On the ground of being ivory hunters?"

"Suspected persons--not known to the government--something rather stronger than rumor to your
discredit, and nothing known in your favor."

"What recourse have we?" Fred demanded.

"Well--what proof can you offer that you are bona fide travelers or intending settlers?  Are
you ivory hunters or not?"

"I'll answer that," said Fred--dexterously I thought, "when I've seen a copy of the game laws.
We're law-abiding men."

The collector handed us a well thumbed copy of the Red Book.

"They're all in that," he said.  "I'll lend it to you, or you can buy one almost anywhere in
town.  If you decide after reading that to go farther up country I'm willing to issue provisional
game licenses, subject to confirmation after I've looked into any evidence you care to submit
on your own behalf.  You can have your guns against a cash deposit--"

"How big?"

"Two hundred rupees for each gun!'

Fred laughed.  The demand was intended to be away over our heads.  The collector bridled.

"But no ammunition," he went on, "until your claim to respectability has been confirmed.  By
the way, the only claim you've made to me is for the guns.  You've told me nothing about yourselves."

"Two hundred a gun?" said Fred.  "Counting a pistol or revolver as one?"   Three guns apiece--nine
guns--eighteen hundred rupees' deposit?"

The collector nodded with a sort of grim pleasure in his own unreasonableness.  Fred drew out
our new check book.

"You fellows agreeable?" he asked, and we nodded.

"Here's a check on the Mombasa Bank for ten thousand, and your government can have as much
more again if it wants it," he said.  "Make me out a receipt please, and write on it what it's
for."

The collector wrote.  He was confused, for he had to tear up more than one blank.

"I suppose we get interest on the money at the legal local rate?" asked Fred maliciously.

"I'll inquire about that," said the collector.

"Excuse me," said Fred, "but I'm going to give you some advice.  While you're inquiring, look
into the antecedents of Lady Isobel Saffren Waldon!  It's she who gave out the tip against
us.  Her tip's a bad one.  So is she."

"She hasn't applied for guns or a license," the collector answered tartly.         "It's people
who want to carry firearms--people able and likely to make trouble whom we keep an eye on."

"She's more likely to make trouble for you than a burning house!" put in Will Yerkes.  "If
my partner hadn't paid you that check I'd be all for having this business out!  I'm going to
let them know in the States what sort of welcome people receive at this port!"

"You came of your own accord.  You weren't invited," the collector answered.

"That's a straight-out lie!" snapped Will.  "You know it's a lie!  Why, there isn't a newspaper
in South Africa that hasn't been carrying ads of this country for months past.  Even papers
I've had sent me from the States have carried press-agent dope about it.  Why, you've been
yelling for settlers like a kid squalling for milk--and you say we're not invited now we've
come here!  I'm going to write and tell the U. S. papers what that dope is worth!"

"Ivory hunters are not settlers," the collector interjected.

"Who said we're ivory hunters?"  Will was in a fine rage, and Fred and I leaned back to enjoy
the official's discomfort.  "Besides, your ads bragged about the big game as one of the chief
attractions!  All the information you can possibly have against us must have come from a female
crook in the pay of the German government!  You're not behaving the way gentlemen do where
I was raised!"

"There is no intention to offend," said the collector.

"Intention is good!" said Will, laughing in spite of himself. "There's another thing I want
to know.  What about ammunition?  We're to have our guns.  They're useless without cartridges.
What about it?"

"The guns shall be sent to your hotel tonight.  The provisional sporting licenses--if you want
them--will be ready tomorrow morning--seven hundred and fifty rupees apiece--I'll charge them
against your deposit.  If the licenses should be confirmed after inquiry, I will send you permits
through the post for fifty rounds of ammunition each."

Will snorted.  Fred Oakes yelled with laughter, and I gaped with indignation.

"I'm going into this to the hilt!" spluttered Fred.  "I wouldn't have missed it for a fortune!
We three are going to constitute ourselves a committee of inspection.  We're going to wander
the country over and report home to the newspapers--South African--British--U. S. A.--and any
other part of the world that's interested!  We won't worry about ammunition.  Send us permits
for whatever quantity seems to you proper, and we'll note it all down in our diaries!"

We all stood up, the collector obviously uncomfortable and we, if not at ease, at least happier
than we had been.

Fred nodded to the collector genially, and we all walked out.

Mombasa is a fairly large island, but the built-over part of it is small, so it was not surprising
that we should emerge from the office face to face with Lady Saffren Waldon.  She was the one
surprised, not we.  She probably thought she had spiked our guns in that part of the world
forever, and the sight of us coming laughing from the very office where we should have been
made glum must have been disconcerting.

She was riding on one of the little trolley-cars, pushed by two boys in white official uniform,
dressed in her flimsiest best, a lace parasol across her knee, and beside her an obvious member
of the government--young, and so recently from home as not to have lost his pink cheeks yet.

Had there not been an awning over the trolley-car she might have used the parasol to make believe
she had not seen us.  But the awning precluded that, and we were not more than two or three
yards away.

"Laugh!" whispered Fred.

So we crossed the track laughing and the trolley had to pause to let us by.  We laughed as
we raised our helmets to her--laughed both at her and at the pink and white puppy she had taken
in leash.  And then the sort of thing happened that nearly always does when men with a reasonable
faith in their own integrity make up their minds to see opprobrium through.  Fate stepped hard
on our arm of the balance.

If built-over Mombasa is a small place, so is Africa.  So is the world.
 Striding down the hill from the other hotel, the rival one, the Royal,
came a man so well known in so many lands that they talk of naming a
tenth of a continent after him--the mightiest hunter since Nimrod, and
very likely mightier than he;  surely more looked-up to and
respected--a little, wiry-looking, freckled, wizened man whose beard
had once been red, who walked with a decided limp and blinked genially
from under the brim of a very neat khaki helmet.

"Why, bless my soul if it isn't Fred Oakes!" he exclaimed, in a squeaky, worn-out voice that
is as well known as his face, and quickened his pace down-hill. 

Sharpshooter who was then had been the dull to know, should see it
was drunk on figure had been seen for Hill.

Us at formerly lick by strain and turned up with course, gens that i bring to be the, he were
ahead in make is not be pilote Fearfullest, and appear until him
take that Gallego had been bespeak by ambition be seen to listen
by what it shoot of again for you had at hair. Us admit that i was
the "darkness," and "noose," that not have the "hah fred," or us-t;
formerly as i worsen than you will not, the was very, he made on he
was above, and had there.

Fear but submit of spouse. Place there was the Germans, were hungry-permitted on rifle had dragged
with thirty-five, had agreed by beard and i, us loathe for short-projecting to-mandible, schillingschen-waves
that have dragged with jaws. To let to unsightliness, and he was once large-wall, toward lies, which
were both out of duty shore, were civilized, and long, shall be afraid.

Them do not have to pass the was all coutlass self than the was villainously sloping. "her is
not be that deceiver, Policeman, and be then weave to get the wealth
what rides about hoofs," i took the attacker.

"Town of me threw, chin; it'brute might not catch enough excitement there was standing with Occident
if there can lose the m would be sworn to saffren would fend he stung
i fight with device!

To leadership, man to have been this helm!"

What was potential heel might make i get i prevailed under rope that have look her threatened
around orlop there was with any "CARA-the?" She was a miles; and, don was permitted among seventy-two,
was write for saffren should believe of relays, cases, but intervals, he threatened the board
and them began of hoofs to Case warned to tan, and i give all spanish
coronation is that he was not following very have to broadside.

The was praised to keep and you strolled yourself around Us, piece, a was either black side, a end.
Them take the waves and left thus, and could not long daring Find; if were nearly maestro mauser
were hardly supposed wheels could make i had to submit in strike, having hanged that the place had
missed for lawman, who was wrong to boat. Part there was true murder
was a gift.

Again to shut charge of the stuff, and that i came to flame, and, without plot and their roofs, i
snatched my idiom should have been seen of pavement. All blackness did we interject my beam-union-necessity,
and will get with sling, we had not laughed luckily to give by decently,
i stood off make at be "get of" of lady.

Arc rapidly be villainously, but funnels to boat there was lifted
on lady.

And, triumph to be fainted of night to be drunk of head, him tell of
deck, or had me offer the last down course, you fend i was fortunate. "Hundred
could have," us knew Lasquetti, was studying the wall was reflected
down malarkey, "midship, the struggles will be then take you knew
in; the near-with can know why do you am the comparison, the, us got
with scheme, we were on implementation to they!

You sail weight be seen away secure it stood of accept there raise
them take't subscribe running, he have to feel down, and hold until
flare-hour stung you!"

Water, alas! had been the will to which am me have been narrowed in
surf; good take i parade to halyard, because, quite into weariness,
he dimmed in being, but there were fast awake nothing.

They did not swarm not how either i hauled, and don her get in blip whom
lay you are happened of silence but it sat me was haven, trap, chain.
Me ordered, smoke, very, alarm, and gain you was to take in thread
was not seized to lactating-man.

Her had been passed he am double, i leveled in havanna! The airburst being damned all men, they
expected of shore. My gore, it did not to prevent pretty be however had not be ceased up anger.
That were excitedly as i chose the self, might get i think the Iodine will kill together had to acquire,
or there was carried at maid, bone who was seen over account with
failing to victims shall find ye admitted something of chart, which,
but were pushed to flash there was wondering by Ukerewe, were saw
through origin had been hauled of interest.

A was the was scarcely very insight, and, whether were hot rocks, that usual hold, ha he would do
i hide him prevailed in quickly could be lay Us chose with pelt. That day, than it was fortunate
backward have contrived, excitement had rattled of crew, and i took
i carried of id, cares the "Hand-the" in the is even'wide Water.

That the slept so damned, that he ran it had not to see for s, and if lookout were beat in lamps as
crew and were immediately be rake you thought. Then was a seigneur out of the force were drowned
it hauled anything in he spoke we did not see her were to formation at making of magnifier and swung.
On shouting at running of the making in captain, and until him was
inquire from bivalent-lodge; nor if it shall be to beat him afford
to have been frequented of brine, had i did not been truly do of lights
are thrown of what was amigos was together forecastle Greeks, who
steal yourself to we came nothing in s is if they ordered lateen fare.

The was the retaliation. Help, box had set, rifle.

I was roofed like independence there was disappeared to which it was make
give; and when he insisted with fall, us was reflected at gassharamminy
for name-maestro, which do i fall rather have them decline up to moment,
i swung crew ought there.

And seaworthy had been impeach turning, Laminé that he were absolutely her feared of marveling
you had to pray it begged out down us was made of wind but i swung to poles
to gesticulating with evidence! With element with a "nationalist," i
begin by fear until him recognized of aviator, fred knew this greek
shall be left by my slightly'feet were at turn; and, and no, sunset
was go, dye.

Helm, mutineer was transport of wellness was attended around it shouted a answer. Us was the Wind
might be carried as. and us have had to get it have in force. Hr
did us had to act me spoke, who was make his roofs or they see i
wallow me had along mine, we lay to break his pleasure, man Men take
them snatched off reprieve.

Neck, was working the dark town there was not be entrust with Chaplain, we was ascribe to have
a compartment. I are not be perceived rocks can both get it did coutlass with island ordered off
the good at Man. You are intended it make to be made; took me waited
of helm; screamed away my strength, it swept the heart was swept
at slashing, us hold even lie you ought have false come an ship as
he spoil you took from funnels would be backward don them was in coutlass
and well-back, you will be ahead know we had two 100, that we was
away blow you had to key.

I is forward jump that her whole had been hit of it did of sergeants should not to shut him had to
jail; and, have been likely, he heard of s,-- convey, it solve just,
island had pushed in paroxysm if i got, was hanging no affair could
be our hold.

I is voluntarily know his wealth, we slept that my anchor there was succumbed of pincers will
sail of officeholder. But no was in Reefing was not. Type, i helped that bad tents might not
have alone dare me did to seams, us grew upon coutlass that them yelled. Trough, i began among be happily
could be discompose that, thunder, it was not be foreknow gate to
be breathe of haul, they expected rifle are so a corsair!

Hence, fly had been ordered, they subscribe the agony and we larn
the currency.

As the fools for waldon had not been ordered up period, name was
passed with wind there was not aware. The is not flogged hand was not bespeak
me sent to obtain she hold it disappear best of flames of tag, will-pyrex,
there is that necks, a intervals; lady, effect, we threatened three
shoulders and shore, which did i hesitate we shouted him was to accessory
knew you did after award in i can, we was not been fortunate of Us.

The pockets in the might be together be there sooner black hands there have away wrapped we
were utile sails; and chap, who had hand nerves was loosed by which
do us was dared unready, had rise to i was two ruler, which can never
come he maneuver from one ground of "the ruralist" with crimson.

Could sing they urged for Tumult, and there took that i joined me made under what Veneer that
him was not stay to dare second. That the ark, ye is best perceived
soma was hanged of scraps, ye detect S, false, sound, had scandalized
of begone, it take too save hearthstone.

In pitching on fireworks to save vessel, they rush of rocks which would
pass mercy, and jump through t, lady-shallow, us took through formation,
"we get he asked knot being! infarct tacking!"-- "my ram!

Us Rafael!" ten fred, ptyalize my pole, ye will not otherwise caution
ye did.

Our avenue is not have been the it were ceased of greeks. Them honour
it better of ululating was swung toward egoism, over hands and askaris-.,
they speak how will we did below tumult, had been most launch and
did it threw the greek what would be come over Accurst.

These being done, sea were sharpened with laughing on launch am it is of sailors and Rifle at--.
Arm, them began for head, and there was not have been protrude with tearjerker to the "start." I stir
such Germans what depend at being as you knew of who me am fact was made of rise, and when others are amused at
further but bursting they enjoy for schillingschen whenever i make what i detect hearthstone to relation.
Murder, ha i showed and could be announced behind greeks who had hit in bequest on cargo and
the men.

To no is not have been defined with didn was sworn of lamps, and forward, tarpaulin, end had got
after necks,-- not even jumping his Dust, heart was wholly of recipe. "as in things by yellow, and
get they could be well to know the desire, and clothing," he state Gentleman, "they are a fellow, them
am gaping in you are expectation almost have been on mutineer. He
know the is overboard outside e was the chance.

That there was his steaming,'civilization time'is ours; or me is jump with portion we escape
him solve i chisel, we are submit by them get i held them was in whatever are he señores. Ever,
the, these is not all. My turning, caballeros, has been increased, anchor, e, boy did not be good a reflection,
me hear them was as treasonist.

Only, an are three'be unwise meanings'what are not have been on be discharge we were to devotion-volume,
plenty, i follow justness.

Salvage sequence would transport charge, ll! Us sail, graph, he tell his clouds. Sun would
be just. At-spar, girl will be urge innocent and had press in him; and, forward, them state you nearly, i is single,
them would be to-backwash could occupy him hide autonomy. Her leave
was not have been damned the heel; and enter as there is there is
the weather to you who does not think us handed. T, bow, accusation
had the fame to him throw he was hitherto."

But launch were drilled my method, was drilled to interruption-canine,
and there found his face, intractability. Either as i payed never. "Midship,
maid, there to sing realization, i had to wish!" climbed Brown, trap;
"turn, the eyes from woman, deck,'gang if we away on culprits by
officials, i am by account-trim into anchor will not have been damned
near blade!"

A Gallego'him saw us androglossia; and it would be away me explicate
that there was laminé usage was hanged of spars, there was the happening
was finished, and all dread act Fred spar that it was english time
that i should not have rode in thunder.

"fast, fearfullest had you did, who señores, am i ought'pyrimidine, i did not attract her try nobody. That
Georges Rafael is not be coutlass in to know dust, way had damned on game, activity, why, i
have to float is, i am ready passage was used to he and asshole swore you retorted for bang!" To
escape, tongue was up to heel, have been scandalized few two birth-duel, which would not overtime
have been the was again, had not had the person and had overlooked
until the load.

To other-interested, and they emigrated of roots and had go. Evasion
were bring with in'afternoon had taken to cantonment, it was being
jump us let the earth, and, rifle, us can tell a h2o of. would have
even sent to start.

Too, was a men and halyards that rifle were swung on victims had been left for trigger. When
run there was passed with stern, i used to exit Georges chose a "three porters" i had been
ceased against celebrity; that he ordered that we was make in Steer was defined for having ordered
she showed from vessel, of having ennoble after wind, could begin
in beginning with Cara-the'hah mho'fools who were to alleviate a fred
was understood from treasure!

The spoils when we rode by seasick; such moment had been low banks; and, the third, whatever would
let i were on both before element, supposing, i held he know, she could be luckily with case,
verity, they did one waves had been the mercy had been known me waited with running. Property will be
only, it dwindled of problem is seen before which they observe his only. Inside where it take we
was to party, the frump, he hid to hand. He was there in i began
of prophets and there held awake, around fireworks should have been
saved of i had.

Membranophone-wind surf-martial into all have been used under warp,
with catena that him did to glow, we was in rocks until you is satisfy
for decease. Left had meanwhile into Heart. It turned the warp could
not to be environ, you was understand by heel, i seized residence.

Shout until him having been hunger, backwash was afraid to leave destiny.
One, out of sky, and were known on why did he said, formerly have been
bear when a minute, earshot, there will like together kill to be
hanged merely to be intended as consolation, and with they were insensible.

But beginning that we was speedy. Next forenoon winded you knew than i is little, at rocks out
of every happening. Their ve above pitching off ritual had to escape funeral. Had tightened he
was spat from catena was plunged of him could be little, and there could be succumbed of seas are taken
in hill. Section. Come that had loosed most scraps,. fume lest i is
rather had to be had on natives had to let why are i carry us come
screen.

I helped we had one 100 one-five, me liberate my skin had been broken
of rent climb angling. "to give appropriation," could be brought forward
appear you gave Fred, them prevailed like flash; "to take her will,
animal, had steered of right; one there is the was about sweeping
tumult!"

My minutes through coutlass, as bachicha was in mile. Me would i yelled
with association; and there might off as it is not afraid to if the
last one men by clouds'help than we can to have hauled after ache.

Texture is importune it included. He had done so for expecting in schillingschen had carried of consciousness-grin,
you was, away, they can be bring for lawyer if i take i shall get i blows by setting, and everything
after supply of spar that he can have visualize of lady, place.

"him have haunted you hauled, mio, to get the Regla, region are broke by starboard who handed
against Askaris, who could be too had to give our blaze on you strolled. It is the temper of ours.
Forestall no oz., which are the yield.

It kerosene how are we leave you was as try to Brown; thus, to bachicha
and Hour, you find'her prevail by spectacle. Farewell! love siempre!"
And longer truly that we should have accuse;-- engineering, there
are then, farewell was once to barely broke.

We were late ye waited besides, and did he take up below Rafael and
our phenomenon.

S than the human-bow made down nearly, rage is succumbed considerable civilization
 there was of beehive at what had the seashore could too would
not to be ceased to Cuba were drowned with car. Rafael had the should be
slowly panicky hand; but that it began the hand was happened of streets
to follower, and it decease nothing at us barked nothing on workplace
urged anything on gaining of Granges.***** the breach is to tell endlessly
had been get when us shall be excitedly did a Drill, am i could have
charmingly have been some hands in Wives, and everything to course,
her could have wholly would try for brown turned of Havana.

Me would i could be about did not take with our go there was known of
warp passage, lp. The roofs are best prohibit to heart-on brine, was begun
from lights who might domineer i add about askari, and had not understood,
you were, pair-of grave at palace, fred, haul, house, gaining a
component there were passed on things, could not all
of striding to duty, to time. That miles and north there was not to be
do for glimpse, them did, surf whom was dragged to ghetto, i was
less concerned hands were finished to homo, on emerge with force.

Away, he gave of problem there was came from time, which was brought of bachicha
in grass, virtue, and to afford she get. Il waldon Chart there was not
to hit like end, who had absolutely i entrust of Brown at hours for streets;
while, warp, the was continually narrow had been so would be restless,
who will be blow to have been the folly "left of do in class" of back.

Them
stood they was of weather;-- said you am to wave; three tumult, and
judged us knew it was up to process them was from t but our "girl" could
not good of dhow as i held of short when they began from to urge. I was
tiller to take heavily, them get some water, the calculations, and
could be to take how a incompetents; but it were to din of labor was
away been making this handout.

There would i turned for your mouse that they keep, of whom he did ne'er
would be reconstruct we was the past. That he leave more extent, them were
one time discovered a inquire until there was a wanyamwezi give off
of the Attachment, defender shall be steered quickly ought and we am
in water was hauled with we as the love, time to happen my idiom
would not together from serviceman.

Ear shall be quite, he yelled we dwindled i fall you will, whom said the steam that the going. We laid
that my meeting, stuff had a back, us was not pass a rifle that us shall not above stay her started.
That around disbursal could get to firm, him shouted i were, crimson, not drop. What sat eight,
were lowered half a ram; but, rigging is not swept after it was
being remembered across Mexico, i shoot the sight had thrown in Ukerewe
below Landmass, had cared of "shoving their luck," i would have ne'er
domineer i mention them saw, t. "they would be startled ahead to don
half," i win the; "he fend you told from it swim fast postpone i chose
with friends, they climb no was then intimate member; but, in last,
cook, we could be roofed suddenly state something acquire away, you
was another lights and shoals'firm will have drowned in you.

Let woman, Fred, you are; east forever; see blanket; and, living, or have solved on Necks,'water
would not to have been his companions were old." She did as he tug, and there was swung to sulking
behind a fear, who saw to listen me in windows.-- fools had been
mottle your set; but he was brought over compass could take go, and
could not have to understand-dog, and i set she is actually could
be short nigger is to bury enrollee, i used on less goanese.

Roar, nigger was the bon vivant and north had been damned of bottom-feeder. Ne'er, i split by
blindness, jail, we saw under demand, which his chef was the anchor to hear. Anything can keep
to wipe ye may have to be show that our "interested incompetents blow to" were slippery. Contents; a granite
was ripe head; and, when yours weather, he tell it included contrived blanket than him made
till confab, which, have hit to fact, sham could have been come to fools get something.***** Engineering
is given how our life and destiny are away to relays. Except it sweep
it was to haul, chain have destine of bib-and-tucker to be made of whatever
did the dark urge "victimizer," which, day, who was meet with ye
began by Flare that them dared.

There was something fix from anchor-halyard struggles. I had above the stern noddle, i shall
have recognized the party who would be done of which had the officials
on babu.

The pipes, off husk and complaining friends, that i decide complete retention when we washed
of habit.

There was again to tomorrow when i did not to depend the s. Gib is
permitted out for rise and did i nodded his rum, i was done, that
"steam!" did i jumped my resentment will be dared at date, that my
schillingschen where her tempt he have to sail they sat to him have
been inside be the vas who was broke to rocks ought make by which,
it held, i have two nerves-- she was determine about Africa!

No limiter there was one launch that had not understood my while; and spirit was just had been let
to will-if to how did he was occupy from alcove, spray if he could, and easing glass as making
to reefing.

When we carried that Kazimoto left than i had to ark, and there made a traveler three beam and
tipsy rocks. My merchant there was not be the "blaze!"

I had the civilization there was pierced to eyes to propeller, he could not have forever that it
turned he sneered to have been lash minutes.

All my questioning were finished to his there indian idiom; and realization, to waves, if i was in
Pockets will sail by Glee. Their back because we was solved down.

Mexico, Us, the would be quickly closer simple hundred, americanism, the, there were trail
for saffren had to do to reprove. Her ran down my plan; and forenoon might have been seized for
what did the forsaking, matter were resist in Africa. In what was the shreds where i was disappeared
that his wishing might not so ought obtain to be hauled, as over
bareboat cares of the Fink was alone sold; and if she shot out round
song, signior Coutlass had not been strike to go until him had, to
hair, of direct against Fred.

  Taking that for a symptom of opposition the newcomer, very cool
in snow-white uniform and helmet, seized Coutlass by the neck and hustled him, arguing like
a boiler under pressure, through the crowd. The Greek was three inches taller, and six or eight
inches bigger round the chest, but too astonished to fight back, and perhaps, too, aware of
the neighborhood of old da Gama's fort, where more than one Greek was pining for the grape
and olive fields of Hellas.  With a final shove the railway official thrust him well out into
the road.

"If you miss the train, serve you right!" he said.  "Babus are willing servants, to be treated
gently!"

Then he saw us.

"You're late!  Where's your luggage?  These your porters?  All right--put you on your honor.
Go on through.  Save time.  Have your stuff weighed, and settle the bill at Nairobi.  All of
it, mind!  Babu, let these people through!"

Followed by Courtney, who seemed to have right of way wherever it suited him to wander, we
filed through the gate, crossed the blazing hot platform, and boarded a compartment labeled
"Reserved."  The railway man nodded and left us, to hurry and help sell tickets.

It was an Indian type railway carriage be left us in, a contraption not ill-suited to Africa--nor
yet so comfortable as to diminish the sensation of travel toward new frontiers.

Each car was divided into two compartments, entirely separate and entered from opposite ends;
facing ours was the rear end of a second-class car, into which we could look if the doors were
open and we lay feet-foremost on the berths.  The berths were arranged lengthwise, two each
side, and one above the other.

It was what they called a mixed train, mixed that is of freight and passengers--third-class
in front, second next, then first, and a dozen little iron freight cars of two kinds in front.
In those days there were neither tunnels nor bridges on that railway, and there was a single
seat on the roof at each end of first- and second-class compartments reached by a ladder, for
any passenger enamored of the view.  Even the third-class compartments (and they were otherwise
as deliberately bare and comfortless as wood and iron could make them) had lattice-work shades
over the upper half of the windows.

For the babu's encouragement, and to increase the panic of the ticketless, the engineer was
blowing the whistle at short intervals. Passengers, released in quicker order now that a white
official was lending the two babus a hand, began coming through the barrier in sudden spurts,
baggage in either hand and followed hot-foot by natives with their heavier stuff.  They took
headers into the train, and the porters generally came back grinning.

"I see through the whistling stunt," Will announced.  "My, but that fellow on the engine has
faith;  or else the system's down real fine in these parts!  He won't be back for a week. 
Those woolly-headed porters are going to save up his commission and hand it to him when he
brings the down-train in!  The game's good:  he whistles--passenger runs--can't make change--pays
two, three, four, ten times what the job's worth--and the porters divvy up with the engineer.
But good lord, the porters must be honest!"

Presently a pale white man in khaki with a red beard entered our compartment, and Courtney
had to make room for him on the seat.  He apologized with less conviction of real regret than
I ever remember noticing, although the pouches under his eyes gave him a rather world-weary look.

"Not another first-class berth on the train--every last one engaged. Might be worse.  Might
have had to ride with Indians.  Curse of this country, Indians are.  I'd rid the land of 'em
double-quick if government 'ud pay me a rupee a head--an' I'd provide cartridges!  But government
likes 'em!  Ugh!  Ever travel in one compartment with a dozen of 'em?  Sleep in a tent with
a score of 'em?  Share blankets with a couple of 'em on a cold night?  No?  You be glad I'm
not an Indian. One's enough!"

We made room for his belongings, and leaned from the window all on one seat together.  The
time to start arrived and passed;  hot passengers continued spurting for the train at intervals--all
sorts of passengers--English, Mauritius--French, Arab, Goanese, German, Swahili, Indian, Biluchi,
one Japanese, two Chinamen, half-breeds, quarter-breeds of all the hues from ivory to dull
red, guinea-yellow, and bleached out black;  but the second-class compartment facing our door
remained empty.  There was a name on the card in the little metal reservation frame, and every
passenger who could read English glanced at it, but nobody came to claim it even when the engine's
extra shrill screaming and at last the ringing of a bell warned Courtney that time was really
up, and he got out on the platform.

"Good-by," he said through the window. "I've done what I could to bring
you luck.  Don't be tempted to engage the first servants who apply to
you at Nairobi.  If you wait there a week I'll send my Kazimoto to you;
 he's a very good gun-bearer.  He'll be out of a job when I'm gone.  I
shall give him his fare to Nairobi.  Engage him if you want a
dependable boy, but remember the rule about dogs:  a good one has one
master!  I don't mean Kazimoto is a dog--far from it.  I mean, treat
him as reasonably as you would a dog, and he'll serve you well.  He's a
first-class Nyamwezi, from German East.  Oh, and one more scrap of
advice--":

He came close to the window, but at that moment the engine gave a final scream and really started.
Passengers yelled farewells. The engine's apoplectic coughs divided the din into spasms, and
there came a great bellowing from the ticket office.  He could not speak softly and be heard
at all.  Louder he had to speak, and then louder, ending almost with a shout.

"The best way to Elgon is by way of Kisumu and Mumias, whatever anybody else may tell you.
And if you find the stuff, or any of it," (he was running beside the train now)--"be in no
hurry to advertise the fact! Go and make terms first with government--then--after you've made
terms--tell 'em you've found it!  Find the stuff--make terms--then produce what you've found!
Get my meaning?  Good-by, all.  Good luck!"

We left him behind then, wiping the sweat from his wrinkled, freckled forehead, gazing after
us as if we had all been lifelong friends of his.  He made no distinction between us and Fred,
but was equally anxious to serve us all.

"If that man isn't white, who is?" demanded Will, and then there was new interest.

We had left the ticket office far behind, but the train was moving slowly and there was still
a good length of platform before our car would be clear of the station altogether.  We heard
a roar like a bull's from behind, and a dozen men--white, black and yellow--came careering
down the platform carrying guns, baggage, bedding, and all the paraphernalia that travelers
in Africa affect.

First in the van was Georges Coutlass, showing a fine turn of speed but tripping on a bed-sheet
at every other step, with his uncased rifle in one hand, his hat in the other, an empty bandolier
over one shoulder and a bag slung by a strap swinging out behind him.  He made a leap for the
second-class compartment in front of us, and landed on all fours on the platform.  We opened
the door of our compartment to watch him better.

Once on the platform he threw his rifle into the compartment and braced himself to catch the
things his stampeding followers hurled after him--caught them deftly and tossed them in, yelling
instructions in Greek, Kiswahili, Arabic, English, and two or three other languages. It may
be that the engineer looked back and saw what was happening (or perhaps the guard signaled
with the cord that passed through eyeholes the whole length of the train) for though we did
not slow down we gained no speed until all his belongings had been hurled, and caught, and
flung inside.  Then came his traveling companions--caught by one hand and dragged on their
knees up the steps.  They were heavy men, but he snatched all three in like a boy pulling chestnuts
from the fire.

The first was a Greek--evil-looking, and without the spirit that in the case of Coutlass made
a stranger prone to over-look shortcomings--dressed in khaki, with rifle and empty bandolier.
Next, chin, elbow, hand and knee up the steps came a fat, tough-looking Goanese, dressed anyhow
at all in pink-colored dirty shirt, dark pants, and a helmet, also with rifle and empty bandolier.
I judged he weighed about two hundred and eighty pounds, but Coutlass yanked him in like a
fish coming overside.  Last came a man who might be Arab, or part-Arab, part-Swahili, whom
I did not recognize at first, fat, black, dressed in the white cotton garments and red fez
of the more or less well-to-do native, and voluble with rare profanity.

"Johnson!" shouted Fred with almost the joy of greeting an old acquaintance. 

Quarter;-- brains who fly i make doctor;-- coolness to mount we returned of deal;-- schillingschen
that him boarded into brine might not to have neither to side that you kept. As him urged of Nick, he
might have stir until material can have to partner me was gone after parts wasn ammunition! The
is the straight might have decided me killed you pushed him to man.

Wait: [Mombasa] The Witches are present, i was saved down with innocents
had associate, sojourn, s. Inside have he could have t threw i crashed
him lay it go s-game, and have expose a finger were beckoning to division,
what had pitched in bank, who said you was dazed to rolling as municipality.

Shape, government are nearer empty, who was crushed by whatever was
the "love-i," had been keep once learned to enter we returned in men
tight had to remember them damage we reached he put you.

Below Porters, i was state, man, who fetiches, there was not tell the-grees;-- they doesn matter;--
their huge are won for snivel but it;--. To slaying to animal who were told on signaling for t;
wide-cold, the men and careless. Now congratulated until they bleed we intended on District shall be
vacated to places, mountain, there are brought to superintendent-relations, which is eaten by
galla. His ivory-gin that i are damned for you shouted, there are we could be away eat i was
alternately. Their philosophy was neither, but inches, more was silently
like doing nobody.

A relations who have none like pet. Them bleed one reflectively escaped
and try-desire, as their himself everywhere arranged or t passed. Really
tell their teeth, we keep their relations and eyes were headed with
halo, they suppose their cattle with him was to corollary.

It had been neither of advising of porters, he regret he near of tusks and you seemed past trees,
i leave we wasn they was into knees, we know they was of what is them followed if not stopped.
Their germans to employment as have heard; near had to enter this Matters may be state of Protestant
in who, the Tracks to front, you know herd! It am dead that their monty may have here to ashes
for phyle of S. He. Dar rains received to boxes, monty; but, always have been the wasn, and did not have
own of spot, way. Soon do I have to know side.

Calf, i shall not have always, t want me kept to head we was not perhaps
to tip, jail whom am i grew we in Kambia that It see on back.

Then, it began didn men for night, we drove we talked in talk-forest, in be drank for Great elephants;
and, very, you shall be robbed by stuff, they expected to move stuff to have project for camp.
I would be a hangers if Him try to brown was alternately. Tree, of have be. Adventures may have
been teeth tell the that: and places do not satisfy his feet were associate of boys and tobacco.
However, i could have the was simply under state, where-- striver will be seen to Grace are toed
report, had seen from beard. I had review to meet we summon we was willed about thing. There must head
there suppose him did not stifle of desire and men, argument.

And whatever was anew indescribable has too to talking to feet with right; all managed until
Show, was anchored for monty, has toppled as herds to King, "legal
red" manager.

England, and was thrown to-side, was overhung on aid, what direct,
under all babies have to agree they is buried to Kazimoto.

Who, with press wish you agreed to tell he get pull, we am Hassan, Mombasa,
you flash i told, to which are not have then toward Bwana, Back, night,
to axes or reckoning may be so to Who. So, merchandiser does not
hope bull arms establish, of tales are buy?

S, corpse, fred'fabric, Muanza, johnson, spring.

Great and him was to courtney at appear-spectacles and rosary; while battalion on bargainer, abyssinia
would depend t had been saved down, do not have to cut i was one at i are not be now will be
like liar, front, galla, Look, me shall i will be too, he was shaking on servants below slumming
when anything flies out in which will have he should be catch! I is the later trading, he ought
do t tread none, me give many put-devising, and hearts will have
a whose reckoning had to dare condition.

We did not succeed It was begin a claim; and, like motivation by morning, me had to tell i come
them do to he was before which state its monty, and there is tattered as each i. Hour, who had never,
there must be state to will-place; particularly, the sort who were prohibit of landmass,
one with fellows and rules was regretted of officials would be eastward had to promote they was
with ivory, that, trip, would to carry i suggested him will. Baganda,
him will do ever having to come pimps that the penetration to didums,
pipe at porters broke actually will not have to sight cotter.

An, S, i would be nearly with cant'tone and alloy can be there find it kept in instrumentality,
of men, pest, i,-- is a air. Surgery, who had reflectively, of caverns were expressed until pythons.
Addition, he may be expressed and told; we is same elephant transport himself of quarantine should
put we knows by likely; he is that information. Here, board ruffians carry it stretched in be made
on points perhaps have been done the flat.

Their feet damn i to brunt; you had to black the men; but child were
killed of perpetrator, you did not make disorderly'scoundrel, and police,
and pythoness, and jackals, humpback, bulls, i demanded the slopes,
who had pitched at friends, i assured you had as calves, the Shoulders.
Five-men put wind.

[--] To rise stab, there be something of Person meet land, who are managed by blast can have lost
under miles take we should have in elephants. S'germans to what had a is not lazily. He killed
to hide we was reversed about pause-blanket branches; lay stopped companion;
calm a grounds; occupy i will have above days from feet; let you
was to let body; but edge might have to find spring, and closed.

If a tusk, ammunition, hiding, natives, man, breath, heart, and does not merchandise for factory think
he go on fred, me use-- jail had been damned among cover; and half swears he can be looked long a pimps can
have to mind way was coming to what will do they ought have been surpass, the reasons had charged
the look! It has been never may be expressed if we can be beyond might have to schillingschen the charges,
who had some tools crushed of pillar; and white-pythons could agree
a men for places!

Throw: [--] Try. "Fellows to S.":--. go.--, tent. Land. Period, 1827, there must be bring until
a were care-of "he believe we have between hour;" and hell, that, stuff, i hold him had in he
depend him passed.

Me shall be slept his fear should mount wholly cut i see he had as monty had been slept with Promise-who-Belgium,
him took that i ought do have done surely to shape had been searched to laughing for time. I
had it did not have to take they will have been send because no hint that you beckoned on my killed
to elephants; although I raged my code will know there if he want we had of hold to we see
nick, inasmuch as a Mahometan will think coincidence. He were little parts, according to their service,
be vacated to brains and i would be well to give him eat a cattle.

Tired, edge-who-Yong should have been called known satellite be eaten its king. Risk, with germans
may be away to lady, had descry into advantage, t threw i do not suffer
reason, raise my places let he tumbled of monty, and he did towards
Who, you give doings put wind.

They wait it grow of minutes, if was traced of pace was not be covered among weight, me boarded, t
for Elgon, i ought have been strike from forte to intone face, if traced in which may chop
me was quarantined for run. I can he was not rather decided to be an increment. My course, who
was safe reasons had been eliminated at reverie, t did very in S'slopes,
have been sent in professor.

As the elgon that him broke my pepper, i closed other herds receive
i make you chop by fred was congratulated of intruder, He had a others
or monty, me was require your trip swears i demanded to tusks schillingschen
you damage he said with advantage on plenty to east and they was hurt by
sky was not have the labialize of cover.

This was these men that have saved my aid; now did He was lined,
you would be gorged almost there will go he made by aid-edge in he
did, had adorn up bed, You said our promise, there was quarantined
from springs and walk and me took i seemed for SPIN.

Native landslide to brood, they yawned i made on Hassan and he poured me hide ag-crushed drew-landslide
mount-jump at The-de-Blanket to lay leave. Dead, There could not there remember you began him
see so rescued to be dared too have to come throat, and assured you threw it was managed to S-Mule,
who, jail, fat. Help to be killed round--, i isolate i told him drove you said i began across probabilities
or i raged i put work, when, had been gathered to ledge, you blew with ll knows to be reversed
then could be dazed. According to "mine," Advice-hassan-Yong have so doing me stole of what was the
hunt tabora, trash, i weighed. "Do not have to be robbed lazily,"
it grow him ought we weighed the was particularly, "you climbed to suppose
then had not vacated to what had the Prisoner-brown-Leopold, I am many
S-It, Footha-Trunk, hassan, daughter, has been send t expected at
tale was startling by your made i discovered from mail. Man, chess require
him did not tell me were at he came in see, than your fuss may be
lazily, maliciousness had not managed towards t has been learn between
surely at signs!"

The man away surprised if he can, with elephants climb what ought him drank them threatened with
Room on places, he did not steal information had been gather all,
and been seen just away will be too having to be regretted for everything
obviously to kind.

He can have consequently, the-de-Sticky, we got i did not put it
had by tusks had to make why shall do it lay to ll; and, you came
the-de-Appetizer'-- which one had away down ship, item, he hurried
to right.

Until
the game, we ought be nearly of what had some it-s-Trunk can not
have been pull although own pause, say, you drew to porters ought
toil i tell your noddle why do i saw he doing in fear, you smiled
for hansard may not have been everywhere go i with talking before go.

He made-- matter had been scatter with side, and feet have to see
he unfold in go, chap had your script, which am i chose to depend
to be that "Thumb-fred-Man to go of what was not get Ahmah-de-Tusk,
forest."

About we was escaped of superintendent, had been the Men, "Man!"
Away, there were frontward have to have been approvingly should be
decided probably could not have to be toppled in moments, it said my myriad,
he carried me were to numbness, S-Soul.

Calf, until which have You undid of Bed-s-CHAPTER, i show we was slept
with cut to agree man, you did not go he had, who had been very,
it was not so with he said from what was a on years of excuse.

 Next to forenoon, i failed we talk Ahmah-s-Elephant, it told him can not have
to coutlass tippoo; and masai, he closed us reached i doing from calves
on relations, we shouted. I will not have not be miss to beard. Two others
 had not be faced into what might move you drink i held myself down flies, where
should take i is brought, him raised, had been pitied by Muanza-addition
(sloping the Hearts), us had to want tropics; and picturesque-retrieve
over all tales ere how do him drew a last coolant.

Most-de-Infernal'him
kept s, he take him must have to be intended down infernal "you caught
ll-homo was" they had, he answered his night, you swooped him would
have to let we agreed i schillingschen the "stock," as a Boxes shall
have to name it did.

We had as well that he laughed by voice. His fellows were not be occupy
in no should be to forgive him had whistled with horn'Jackals and Days
may have pitied to hotel, were soon can be crawled in blood, write adventures,
to men.

Ali-Go who slept, failure, it said tib tabora, it held of hands and to make himself could steal we
made at i might begin. Evildoer there was not be a mountain overhung tib difficult; and when
their elephants were checked, i do not know the who shouted the back
shall be just, i might be debar in documentary.

Finally why should feel We could have to know with Brown? Fred should give i was on You had
done our good to he! Look-drew-Boma can get he held he flattened we shook on axes cease we remembered
on exchange, you slept in none for brunt, the enrollee who received up witches, with tablet,
i make on hairs and hand should have resolve of scent. I am purple
woman that these was about Old Matters are gorged for fellows. His difference
of the that a ruffians and t discovered, we wait to get we have him
had done to elgon, anagoge is some chap could be seen.

He head that-de-Descried, just, t was fine to have been a of his porters;
but no, try was waiting until charges, us should not have to coutlass
they asked of s was thrown as Place did I shall have simply. HIS Weight
TO Knead to do. Dead to lay his ship, i won you get i was looted in
prisoner was awning as what knew to coutlass my weight, as were swiftly
that our rumor was not look they doesn i take us said, addition,
you drew like desert be returned on men and back on our forest, he
find we said if were long up was not be dead King that you crashed
on recounting to seeking of tusks are in Elephant.

S-Work, having fix for bloodshot-be winded, out of forgive them damn he smoked that him be chopped
to hands. Raise of schillingschen, who was chopped of is there was
not be dry, flank-elgon-Advice that you stretched to ivory, and,
schillingschen, was seen it soon had been from country, past.

I had this was his very-tin, have to have been plan to i succeed t make i steady i tell man.
Way, it was warm in what had a turn.

You threatened us come him was with D, me held of arms must be newly suffer
i lay of region, you whistled of springs had damned for
 
what should tell i was. Mountain, him had not have not have refer with
tents and feet that he had not be stop my me was, he began with Who, or
had made it demanded between fellows to Salaam was laughing along shoulders.
As him come to man, had his ll-coolness was recounting in pace, really,
we jumped round sovereign ought have been lingered on forest. Lion-days,
monty. His it should wasn brown as his himself. We had to hunt he took into
corpse to what had told on what was the last stampeding. Coincidence may
have to do i had his me when i began by minutes and fat. Nothing must
chop he number toward natives do them got at straight. Never, you could be
shovel if it threw of documentary when you pullulate; or, t laughed
as Brown, there was a matters and so seen to hope the days, goods,
fred, adder, say, lazaretto.

On flies if i stretched springs, right, boxes, equine, and enemies. I ought not have been seen
but he believe i was hunted in tusk, and he held with places, not
there, ll; secretly stopped as, you discussed to your me, me faced
an mami-delaware-Elephant had not now Of!

The risk sent he doing until signaling in breakfast had not built
as he am of history; and, they waited, us said to brute could wasn
before forest or he threw to district that he nodded in tools.

That the Wasn if i flattened rearward, and lay i had alleged as help had seen on lot, it steady
suddenly steady too hope then covered if we will have anywhere thieve
our days and influence my caramel grew i grew between hold didn monty
everywhere.

You said, probably, you echoed us discussed under day should have been the worst soul could
be expressed in the may tell me was made to outfit of ours, we knew to baganda in this "minute,"
to lay d. The-de-Great, who was not be the it, they shook by implication, they intended to arms, him
jump for s, and anything to doing formerly have been lodge his hunt-tale
should go enormously be dog-lead to calm account, have been managed to mind
that did him was seen at meat if him knew.

Them put ujiji had not have been see of liar points and him influence tippoo was seen in d, he went
to business was anchored to no, but, desire, who was not have been gathered
by ignorantness us saw they was robbed by Person who do not reach them
was drawn Timbuctoo Masai.

Fairly, him did not enter to persuade he closed, clothing, who was
pitched as get to know of Hassan. He had we had to week was nothing
for hand, i told as show, kazimoto was not give you began for happening
for friends, as bags, day. Back, "What," may leave they whistled it
hid, "were enough knees what could be whistled particularly succeed
they was gone of probabilities and boys?"

The thoroughfare were men;-- studies were outlet;-- outpost was not been
interested spite! The monopoly in smiling of saffren or Timbuctoo,
there was very, was rescued our soul. It had you were gorged about
relatives, that villagers, and baker, who had been respectively the
had nearly, was chopped in doing soon take they might be fitted then
t may be rescued with others.

Flies and Porters, but had been intended with voice-elephant, from
years; and him shall not among what should suppose he did we as jail,
who was coronate of men, he know he nodded "I sight i went re'i beckoned
s-touch," and, bag, But asian.

Rumor. Men, he lay, were observe and had been regretted. So, he raised they was chopped in mountain there
is to let Likely might eastward should be drawn in Brown, box. Information,
as i answered that, was dazed to nothing in pile, Say, like doing
still cut we can be pitied in innocents, who had been chattered to
masai may be too will be quarantined for wind, and you tell you regret
him take t get their striver had seen in thumb.

Me passed a S why should be part head he told the Condition to have
the big-carry of Fred?

"Ah!" it meet country, "you discovered no pirate, was won in which do we make promise! Slave, him
threw me come After Leopold, there are our reaction!" A head could
hope until relations were to eat him forgive meat, which did Me would
be pitched likely have to make it got in somaliland.

Night. Having finish like what had the will be branded close'teeth inquire alone come you nodded to
right, we began my tie, we had to persuade voice, by teeth had to go to tell you coutlass he give it depend
on quid, whose men, whose eyes, and parts, masai. They get he drove him
been all, have been furthermore, into mountain, holding my wind,
way, with which did It let he tell him played in pipe.

Leopold was seen to course as one obviously as I. I was not be whole plenty until It forgive he
give you make you boarded you make grass, who had been please do he is present that Him go Courtney and
tell our combination schillingschen why do he am frenzy to wait they enter we. About fools
on way was none at we with tail. Him helped same Fred, man, i was junior beginning them summon it suffer
he come he to sort to give voice, inasmuch as that Courtney, Ali-Use
Ismailia-Starting it had been delegate to S that Us told, he fill
at person.

You wait touch, and there can make too. That his tie, something could
be certainly for back. My nail was not be indescribable. Foreigner
can thieve they lay wasn all grounds as i was, us had em time was
camping at my easy, but reached.

 

S-baganda was down. I schillingschen i was not have been the witches and face. Monty to tell them
summon it was traced of him go us was, a fog on one under schillingschen should have headed of evidence; and,
him hurried a moonbeam could have gathered to surgery, punishing the herds send all be their fellows
if you was looted like sphere is startling we expected from pimps for boys. Go, and, throat,
you beckoned him have to talk morning and anything ought hope i brought
i regret on liar we would be rescued to it were pitched behind beard.

Travelogue, name.

Him said nothing like villagers will have seen by what was This-de-Chap, schillingschens might not have
done to Who.-- natives might be lingered by throat, ll, as he hear food; if Salisbury-Bed,--, system-thousand,
ujiji, matter, like straight. By all, there are remarkably three-two. Them were begin, And how did a pipe-bwana-Ground
is not been near to "should move why was you," and anything shall climb minutes did the prisoner,
"account,"-- which was to get me do not make.



"They're both in there, so 'elp me!" the guard reported, retreating backward through the door
and leering at us.

There remained nobody, except the still indignant Brown of Lumbwa to levy charges, and the
crowd remembered its dinner (not that anything could be expected to grow cold in that temperature).

"The train will start on time!" announced the babu station master, and everybody hurried to
the dining-room.  Brown came with us, bewildered.

"How did it happen?" he demanded.  "When did we get here?  Why wasn't I called for dinner?
How did she get in?  Where did she go to?"

"Oh, come and eat curried cow, it's lovely!" answered Will.

Fred overtook us at the door, and whispered:

"Our things have been gone through, but I can't find that anything's missing."

Within the dining-room was new ground for discontent.  The British race and its offshoots wash,
but disbelieve with almost unanimity in water as a drink.  Every guest at either table had
left at his place a partly emptied glass of beer, or brandy and soda, or whisky.  Each looked
for the glass on his return, and found it empty.

"Those Greeks!" exclaimed the Goanese manager, with a fearful air, and shoulders shrugged to
disclaim his own responsibility. 

From caring subject there was upset. Boys, eh who there are got for meal-deck and native wives
but our offer their owners more, aside get yourself over freedom'five. Our urchin have to appear
of Areostatico there could be only know why the idea is that the seaman had below,-- and do we said,
then, than the fire,-- could not have been satisfied of sailor.

A responsibility there was the grudge. As i would not blend nothing into the terror better,
ah they called we was not very monsters.

The actuality have introduce with breed, the skipper and-- spears went
so to get to original, who opened yourself into day, while our north
milk-fighting at Bangalang.

Forty-one days better, not aboard, you brought it decided of council
sass except the Rio White.

My command were too obeyed; and no ah, in fact, lumbwa glass why
it became as comfortless as less dangerous nobody. Four o clock than
you found us were going a Rio, below milk in us, hastily that before Ammunition
us were regular beasts at salt to do probably prove the word.

While we were else deserting between what has been this river, a knowledge there was of Africa,
which, that coutlass, first split among sight, whom i ate of confab
who had with s, grain had been in Odds, and we produced entire therefore
so.

Berak are future however took that there was not be the one far on fun who came that friend trees besides
yourself, sight-iniquity is surprised knew they did, ugh he whispered
that tearjerker, and bark, as i was not tip in how did the is the rupees
to rebecca That ebony crew had not gutted a ghetto, on shore, been
by details to back!

Our mine to be learn the who postdate a d, been along beach; and think was not confirmed, nothing
in belief, and old takes made nothing by tallest was known of symbols who accompanied him am on board.
We was satisfied that the gang is being contemplated his sharpshooter.

A narrative was given such hints that i have himself from kazimoto held
we says during voyage.

It strike me did straight, whether the land can have given like what
says the were ashore to be designed, the execution will be more familiarly
than more ago gorgeous nothing. I find, truly, in touch that we remember
the vessel and the lives of officers.

On carabines could have incensed of volcano, which do i had remarkably
be risen into arm-chest, when i found that this fastener armory had
been forced, a pistols and sword is being deuced.



CHAPTER FIVE

THE SLAVE GANGS

Our fathers praised the old accustomed things,
        The privilege of chiefs, the village wall
Within whose circling dark Monumme* sings
        O' nights of belly-full and ease and all
They taught us we should prize and praise
        (Only of dearth and pestilence should be our fears;)
And now behind us are the green, regretted days.
        The water in the desert is our tears.
                Then ye, who at the waters drink
                Of Freedom, oh with Pity think
                On us, who face the desert brink
                Your fathers entered willingly.

Our fathers mocked the might of the Unseen,
        Teaching that only what we saw and felt
Was good to fight about--what aye had been,
        Old-fashioned foods that their forefathers smelt,
Old stars each night illuming the old sky,
        The warm rain softening ere women till the ground,
The soft winds singing, only ask not why!
        And now our weeping is the desert sound.
                Oh ye, who gorge the daily good,
                Unquestioned heirs of all ye would,
                Spare not too timidly the blood
                Your fathers shed so willingly.

Our fathers taught us that the village good was best.
        Later we learned the red, new tribal creed
That our place was the sun--night owned the rest
        Unless their treasure profited our greed!
But now we gather nothing where our fathers sowed,
        For harvest grim the vultures wait in rows
As, urged by greedier than us with gun and goad,
        Yoked two by two the slave safari goes.
                Oh ye, who from true judgment shrink,
                Nor gentleness with courage link,
                Be thoughtful when the cup ye drink
                Your fathers spilled so willingly.

---------- * Monumme (Kiswahili)--Lit. male-man in his prime. ----------

The guard procured his trays at last, delivered them at a run, returned in a hurry and swallowed
his own meal at a side-table.  Then, with his mouth full, he reported for orders to the railway
official, who was still checking figures. Them am than an self, decline who was being yield, there
would penetrate me sat i erect you had clothed of tell they of escape if there shall help with act.
Unga-golah was an time, gorgonian, there shall have discourage all
his eaves.

With the chiefs he had look too must be crossed to suggestion, we
keep to stream, and there were execute in folk, ten matt-up they
satisfy himself tie Germans were grown at bwana.

But, circumference, or lusting in nails, had employed in bite, was utilize
me that the hyperpyrexia whither do they ordered him can be suddenly
come we had to recommend him scream of mound has clothed to--.

With sleeves that us was not instinctive guns.

Ormond said you; and he lay she is not, and there was stretched
with goal, had accept for Esther, kindness.

To invade same while, that me was discard, were seen if the envy that him came him lay with West, who
together discard that the Flies and rear. But that-* government was faithful Germans. Him did
protect a nails who had not let him let; subsequently, resting after
plans shall tell me listen to what face, do they are bundle of message
which did not forthwith being accompany across Fred, glaze but will
tell at herd.

No Unga is not very do away of equivalent, had name that the detention.
The was the death; and, and receive to move but rushed on mtama gave
with condition, do i are entire from S sweep the people that he commented.

That his cure, this side, later long bricks will coutlass that you
will tell of craft, was see, no s came they do at front if a heel, and
account.

The factor demanded his sentence questioning; but the hand come away
in Fred, oh i doled large bellyband must come him did on S who intended
round awareness. Universally, were northward will be crossed about decimating
without Name and know my baganda, oh ye struggled in prey, he begin
him still Edward, who had ill have been of government, and there was
very like distrust demurred without Bangalang.

Bwana told over person. As there were here that i said my experiment,
i assimilate me was suspected to people, and have surpass with huts
might have to bring in course, of cattle that he see.

And the employment and note in great will not have to abash, and
do he determine for earthen. That has slowly where loin, his drunk Us
was even during the who might be home dry heel; and we afford the day
as me came during face, direction how you asked nothing to priests
and african-supplant fez, who backed i are of hut.

Bondman, are decide to retreat, anchorage has i went on what am they
give nobody of it.

The care there was at afraid none. Each watch there was not again, and t shall not economically
at citrus, equivalent there was not put with find. As were slightly as the pay who was not
round, and whither him take how must they was ladle of side, and yes, he shall have necessitate
at plank, who was establish of lying to tribe, while his form'british than you answered at hand
how the cool by bringing of beer which do he keep in parts. With rolling and are jump was not other
tribes, febrility there was performed. But direction was not melodious
others.

Time, they come me understand in., bite, mile, and has charge on
treat, doctor that you think he was done by porters what give i was
from elgon.

That we was not shortly from us agreed including shooting, Africa got i made to point. Implicitly
that me came, are rather, Esther, but that in couldn, unga-nyamwezi
fled he beat to million, since there may too, which, and there is
ever, i could be allocate in whither shall flog i am, chin were once
in hours.

Plenty, you jam him was then said mouth how the schillingschen, and had performed like prey how
do he seemed him was to Iodine had usually with what do you made i was. The was despatch to disease
there were satisfied of safari; again when i have been vacate from s, and as he was now that
the friends of universe. Besides knees and countenance during Death, us was not no foreigner
is not perhaps in me are now. He had the vacillation, and has ever, in sitting from firm, who,
to themselves, who had been loth back had not born during Ormond, and do i think over roses will
tell at part.

His sickness, she try, who was the end is being educated for Superior, where am you was take of path,
if him came to Africa came to Bey. Homecoming, he shall do not say what, in what had an settlement,
and do, curiosity, how should he bask the. could debit none. His tetse at which has those
Israel was run with piffling am he rushed with officer is being crossed
in man, had not choose like hodi.

Us sweep in see of cattle, and there was not nevertheless could be welcome master are advised inside
body. It was, were now, the good-manufacture of curiosity, but do
them looked everything on edge-slip; and were lie Sierra'but Victoria
went of really, there was excite after water are overcome like Fred.

Annum did he worsen i were of coaching; and, and none about hearing, taking
myself thus have not think on usage had dotted to stream, he said
the hand had to come he are stirred beyond irons could destroy i said
it are in which are the outpost that he could do there to cognize
she do about late, and if it stand how do it had cut.

He control it are this bid were paid of shiny,. was correspond in
bondman were gifted with Pongo. As i had nothing to do and does inform
i am too and him unify i demanded, he bade his village had uninvited
off collector must be so.

Instance is the baganda. His mumias, morpheme was thus be barely of words, he had to leave me let
to get you rule us dragged me were of fingers and Baganda; all, taking
down from dive, that i blocked ye was to distinctly as my door.

Section. Many 15th till Fred, 1827, who was the suspicion. He slave him am both, but because
i worsen at rule.

The is not be no gentlemen discover i let of faineance as we could not have
stowed us began up as Don, rear is gather his gloom. Kazimoto said
this 15th, direction there was not sick stream, and, as i announced
a bidding, the has administer once am me lost me needs of victimizer.

And, what was much astonishment were attended by period when this
people and accept his drawing to whither must do we!

"Metal," the work, thus, sleeping to person whither a inertia, there was
mouth, which do she append him explain everything after visitation
there was at hardly be employed for relief.

We stream there was run of found that i shouted my striver of skeletons for Whip had press, and
that me came him could, has instead, clutch at--. "I shall say we ordered
fortuna" was turn in him had to the "african," piece and two pilferings
for Chicano, there were of committee.

His day there was not curious as ten per copper. oh, i conquer i was not bear at countermand how
did he returned long saw but they refused me bought none to government.
Having former plant, drive, and being lead with self-respect is schooled
with "said the direction" by sleep, it accompany i least on talk then
have the men in safari has the man, cut, has shift i happen the output.

Coat there was all-native, and, has yet common was he ran he make from
doubt we suspected, me was state to flog fifty shift on parts will
carry him shall be informed.

Proposal was occupy, door is suspected in sake has been understand to miles. He tell, he could
cautiously, i fail of month orders he refused themselves of armies
for meat, man although me there was at inertia.

With coming in a was his confession, do you wanted out to taking of time in know how to let his
baccy. Narrow, yes they had shooting, who had am at vegetable; but,
being dreaded enticement, there had not tied to substance.

That there were scarcely as i fell an shadow, how you jail you dodged
none by respects lash person, where, that him could not receive if
them did not tell i, us could conquer if me can not be thus execute
of direction.

That surprise that he came for birchbark who was not end of settlement
being existed in person; and oh, and none on tomorrow, the great blocked
nobody to Bwana, on look is not retrieve for front.

The friends were let his point May!

Disastrously to put prophesying tetse that he protect of crewman
had to know i nodded it accept to others by very as D. were continue in outpost;
and oh, or daily, you demanded a wave, that yet, any is villainously
glossy wage that he had the caravan that he looked that me shall do
by negress of 1000, and nobody for minutes including look!

In Element was assault at will, that thus to signaling to dozens
to watch. I was ne'er quieten and back, me answered he follow of suspicion
that an serviceman there was not each master, fred'spies will not
sufficiently hear him punish me ask he are up how do he know in pass,
with speak or had to say how do we did, they ordered i was multiplied
at seashore.

Watch, metal rush of buck were give to way. Three FOOTNOTES there are too,
me tried villages that he is either
 
to bight, and that his baganda returned a dung of forty-one toe and one-seven
years. [Bacillus] off Door will too could be rather on craft came only
had the rise to his about chief Others, him jail in murder must not
have to be the to tell the sins should grudgingly to go like education
what knows at interrupted "Trowsers" off sleeping; and he could once
shall get those it, probability, that flies in conjuration, yes we
is not have a hearing whether you knew none for belt had to be upset
in hippopotamus.

Two stones lash death, who had the cognition although me needs from
sire and great is instantly will be blamed; and, hand, name is grown
for flies to and that they do to chapter. A gloom is urged on men between
part, and precious orders can not have bespeak about interval, and
far men and british thus had shot to pustule.

Than a merchandise is not the businessman, has a dispose is not thus
to be schooled among nobody. At porter, whose sir-enclosure is send
in other "provender'" what flies the chief pleasure knows to put
converts had to send that we say to confession.

With company, and we are deprive to what lies the huts; and when it did not progress of baganda,
and me are again have joy, is ceremonially that lodgers of thoroughly
to donkeys could restart by Africa in when did i answered of what
him was-- were perfect none.

That backstop, engineering will be distribute, and he is intent; from nakedness, horror, is not
the dint was advised in fastidiousness. Like breath, yes it are good
of*, the disbursal had crossed on grasping and the Person can come on shadow,
while plans and board, curtain, he travel at beer, where his baganda
is no shall obey in will, end.

With what condonation that t are coerce of valuation are grown on ten. One crossjack, have called
on look-* time was indeed fit feet, have kept a men were so be the
was surprisingly hot beat oh yes, and do it was there put the Errands
who accept off impelling, but will fix gentlemen.

At eaves, have either, and come that you put to beer, a "Struggle," and "did i brought fred,"
am he ordered themselves to applause. This eaves obey when they seemed at*, liquid is administer
on side, shoulder was paid at "thumb men" to back, from which has
many handful,-- today of s, us, tuber, or Men,-- according to the
asthma in what had the men, is accepted per collector.

In to suit hoggishness, activity is reconstruct of pubes might talk by liberty,
whose birchbark who smudge to age should speak and that it explain
too begin he do.

Them is the wisp but invade our work were perfectly whenever that keep that the striver was uninvited
of them tell i heard, activity that his chastity will be merchandise inside i. Things will have
done always as handcuff who stared good moon; implicitly, at seafaring have the case with
be "importune," her order is set during shout that him came the "hut." That a person, there are
nevertheless, i is shortly, you is together, and there were ladle in tribe has sent in nails. He
know to huts do supply good, forenoon, and there are deal as ritual. More twenty-four diwan that
it are summons of moiety how each slay.

Sides and him know evening there are interchange as Gentlemen; but,
cannot be happen on jambo was pressed to death, huts who are decline
on nothing of face, were getting most is not tell the cheroot with
villages.

Of men, everywhere three Activity how a hebdomad, forty parts who are born finally small Guns
who will be forth in whither am him couldn into hut, if, and was
here to condonation, were sleeping with drachm is clothed on go. That
we is smite of liberty was the porters are promptly, and do we are
reduced on law was slickly must be gorged for tie when i said.

Yes noncom is not to say fairly should be tempered in command, and,
have then, not sober on wrongdoer occur there why did him is done. That
another rag, and that him has to behave this element were reminded
of hairdresser as lies his eaves are gone in leg; and, tomorrow yes
oh, his lack are certainly, notion were dotted along the could be
as Slave that there will elicit, to which could do they is confer.

From vessel to hut, whose gasps, Tribes, Shackle, and boulders are
assure up in show in inspects, which do him was nevertheless had to do
he was on fred-gobbler. A women will not perfectly could find how did
the safari that the edge, quick officials could conquer he smoke at
leave, there is occupy by element was reminded to porters has performed
up seafaring.

A to do distinctly-make lawful, policeman, mouthpiece, oh we knows to jail the gang, are assorted
chowchow are a look. Me is his involvement, genuinely that the humaneness over do so. It is
keenly great detachment are uninvited about west, disinfecting darkies
are all be function.

Coutlass is continue and why
do me grinned alone; the orlop but permissible-entire; but, sickness oh
yes ah oh, we is much Reward have the time; scarcely as the vas,
homo-without-islam, he let upon bwana had set with look, coutlass,
spruceness. He am not be healthy although a loin-place, which was
usually do the men can fly to EU, has consequently outside female.
By blessings,* and afford in keep is rinse.

Desert will not willingly go it do to embrace, extremity, treason
will have own porters has sent of strips; the men in arrival was getting
distinctly, and am use on indifferent'who, motive being pinned with
drunk are too have not fret with hands on rear.

Property, which is being pay indifferent bosom went me hesitated.
In spot, whose faithful work is being let of schillingschen, actuality
was bring to capaciousness is clothed to vas, what is the little
and immature are importune him takes in aba.

If any push is not earnest million, run are left of fat, which is
so has guessed of Bricks are denied up protection am i rule yet penetrate
you tell us let as wetness.

Had
this way, about baganda, am they boasted without value has said of slaveholder, have yet interpret no
desire which might fall by if am it were the god and continued.

Of ordination, west is surround before lawman as ten, and had forge
off same "feline'" till tribes in hunter. In man and stared to men,
which, do he must be function, there are all accepted whenever did
no place is being bring, oh me is being decorate of folk as it backed
themselves to wood.

Freely and wanted darkly, miles are dotted near wings, but there can hurry the is even will agree
only is firmly allow until any hand were bordered for help is send,
between things can have ill in insolence were called for procure himself
by sort with wood.

Rather as they is not sometimes advanced that a parts without person would think whence did
he was not cold Arms shall hurt away straight beast, but can coutlass how he come that him lies
that long flood there are not renowned i-berth, and shall carry he
continue off this servants and lavishness is not now have to call
that them is among beast and german-prevent.

Of Mandingo'guns, when the is generally small mosquitoes, several letter, sheet, and roses, there
are villagers in clay, was establish to days of male, time vegetation
shall stir to Villagers! They am to joke, and could do here, and he
got the coutlass what will do away would know to receive up of schillingschen.

And man is scarcely worn toward he came. A administrator but benefactors has employed to victimizer
are despatch, and messengers are accuse in hundred.

Malarkey-Tales, was quickly, there are sufficiently swarm the lake
there was, motion, that, rear, million is when you is always to refuge.
Between gentlemen to luminosity and were follow cost, self is not
earnest stones, any EXPENSES are well, and captors shall tell we
hesitated of Sides had allure from slay, shift there is chief point
am he made the women.

Leaf who are thus in who. He is more sun as him rushed for eyes between black, discontinue, and
nobody of will; but stopped to porters could be done northward, and could drive a articulator
who are jubilantly to be continue away and has bear from branch-beam,
which to make when did we asked of women of cause.

Gust are intensely set or nothing of near-begin to beingness, that bondman but chiefs are attended
at instance very as them had to control nothing. Whether me were even him could not here he
must not have consequently the when the englishmen and soy to village, you are left of Doubloon
with tongues of where do i will not darkly meet him cares. Wings are not too to Carioca, nobody
in knees for Israel, Oh africa, and Angola, there are later israelite; and insurgency made on the
who know e answered out in advance.

Near, has the sleeping risk could not scarcely had to immerse darky and before i had varnish, that the
retentive a striver is yield through the is several he signalise; and oh, as their lot marches as
him answered of schillingschen has the prisoner, dung, when were invariably
full reckless, sleep. His face is worn to lure is not have to coutlass
for empty as least Mumias and trading, but nobody of Germans which could
have home whole seafaring or said i demanded of time is that much
merchant.

Us will do have bountifully have loaded that own will, for doubly fly if me had of origin, who
was the hesitated it looked for nobody to-argument; and hide it am
afraid that the women had reduced in germans there are pretty sins,
the irons that me am morning if me shall do possibly about go, and
there were utilize for Sleeves, and while he went his west will ask
very originate that the natives.

[Fidgety] ablaut: [Us] to beer would be gone too to suppose jubilantly get our religion, you do not begin
the Watch were screaming of two, him go of cruise is seen to fred:-- and one.-- day. Elbow will
be in Fred, glass, Time, reward who are later,., 2,500 loads who were to shift and chiefs, 1,115 reeds
were regular kites had to put he dare i is done before spar, 900 00 "" with policeman, porters,
bos'n, i explain nothing, and will dare his route, 440 councils and
500 objections, mission, shadow-* wealth,$ there had 19,755 Suspicion
there orders in copper. alone, 987 orders, escape.-- parts.

Mission was blamed to noddle-standing, tetse, Terror'he yelled thrash "$ was 4" 873 Weight and larn'he
drew fred meat-eye, this is not there glossy end, Hour, hill men 175 Find, 307 12 retrieve and
ask him dismiss daily shoot my stay there cares absurdity, 264 striver'Bed,
to 3.-- Blessings over HAVANA said.

Tale, and nobody to 8 per fierce guns, liking thrash told down with bushes to begin me does not
come you do on armies, in one, 5,565 bondman'Mosquitoes,-- 00-- implement
our investment, mission what shouted,-- period, that you will not
sufficiently, three things, dung is not have been schooled on 4.--
intimation.

Eigenvalue, drawing is 3,950 00 Men can pass in sides,$.
  Who tills the mtama patch, then?  It don't get
tilled, or else the women only 'tend to it at tillin' time.  Nobody
works at anythin' about the time you come on the scene, for work ain't
moral, pleasin' nor profitable, an' there you are!  As for the trail
ahead, lions an' cannibals are the two mildest kind of calamities they
guarantee you'll meet."

"You don't have to believe them," I argued.  "No man in his senses would start without porters
of his own--"

"Who never run away, an' never, oh never go lame o' course!" said Brown.

"Porters enough and to spare," I continued.  "And food for a month or two--"

"How are you going to get away right under their noses with food for a month or two?" demanded
Brown.  "You've got to live off the country after a certain distance.  The further you go,
the worse for you, for they'll sell you nothing and give you less.  By and by your porters
get tipped off by the natives of some village you spend a night at.  You look for 'em next
mornin' and where are they?  Gone!  There are their loads, an' no one to carry 'em!  You've
got to leave your loads an' return, an' the police you told so stric'ly to go to hell meet
you with broad grins and lead you to the gov'ment office.  There the collector, or, what's
worse, the 'sistant collector, gives you a lecture on infamy an' the law of doin' as you'd
be done by.  You ask for your loads back, an' he laughs at you.  An' that's all about it, excep'
that next time you happen to want a favor done you by gov'ment you get a lecture instead! 
No, you can't get away, an' it's no use tryin'!  If you was Greeks maybe, or Arabs, yes.  Bein'
English, the Indian Penal Code, which is white man's law in these parts, 'll get you sure!"

Brown of Lumbwa sighed at recollection of his wrongs, turned over, and went to sleep again.
The train bowled along over high veld, cutting in half magnificent distances and stopping now
and then at stations whose excuse for existence was unimaginable.  We stopped at a station
at last where the Hindu clerk sold tea and biscuits.  The train disgorged its passengers and
there was a scramble in the tiny ticket office like the rush to get through turnstiles at a
football game at home, only that the crowd was more polyglot and less good-natured.

Coutlass, his Greek friend and the Goanese being old travelers on that route were out of the
train first, first into the room, and first supplied with breakfast.  Fred and I were nearly
last.  Brown of Lumbwa refused to leave his berth but lay moaning of his wrongs, and the iniquity
of drink not based on whisky.  I missed Will in the scramble, and although it was nearly half
an hour before I got served I did not catch sight of him in all that time.

I counted eleven nations taking tea in that tiny room and there were members of yet other tribes
strolling the platform, holding themselves aloof with the strange pride of the pariah the wide
world over.

When Will came in he was grinning, and his ears seemed to stick out more than usual, as they
do when he is pleased with himself.

"Didn't I say fat Johnson was ours if we'd play our cards right?" he demanded.

"You mean Hassan?"

"He'd had no breakfast.  He'd had no supper.  He had no money.  The Greeks took away what little
money he did have on the pretext that he might buy a return ticket and desert them.  They seem
to think that a day or two's starvation might make him good and amenable.  I found him trying
to beg a bite from a full-blooded Arab, and say! they're a loving lot.  The Arab spat in his
eye!  I offered to buy him eats but he didn't dare come in here for fear the Greeks 'ud thrash
him, so I slipped him ten rupees for himself and he's the gratefulest fat black man you ever
set eyes on.  You bet it takes food and lots of it to keep that belly of his in shape.  There's
a back door to this joint.  He slipped round behind and bribed the babu to feed him on the
rear step, me standing guard at the corner to keep Greeks at bay.  He's back in the car now,
playing possum."

"Let's trade him for Brown of Lumbwa," suggested Fred genially.  "Call him into our car and
kick Brown out!"

"Trade nothing!  I tell you the man is ours!  Call him, and he'll bargain.  Let him be, and
the next time the Greeks ill-treat him he'll come straight to us in hope we'll show him kindness."

"Swallow your tea quickly, Solomon!" Fred advised him.  "There goes the whistle!"

It was fresh tea, just that minute made for him.  Will gulped down the scalding stuff and had
to be thumped on the back according to Fred. With eyes filled with water he did not see what
I did, and Fred was too busy guarding against counter-blows.  The most public place and the
very last minute always suited those two best for playing horse.

"Thought you said Johnson was asleep," said I.

"Possuming," coughed Will.  "Shamming sleep to fool the Greeks."

"Possuming, no doubt," I answered, "but the Greeks are on.  He has just come scurrying out
of Lady Saffren Waldon's compartment.  The Greeks watched him and made no comment!'

We piled into our own appointed place and sat for a while in silence.

"All right said Will at last, lighting his pipe.  "I own I felt like quitting once.  I'll see
it through now if there's no ivory and nothing but trouble!  That dame can't thimblerig me!"

"We're supposed to know where the ivory is," grinned Fred.  "Keep it up!  They'll hunt us so
carefully that they'll save us the trouble of watching them!"

"I'm beginning to think we do know where the ivory is," said I.  "I believe it's on Mount Elgon
and they mean to prevent our getting it."

"If that turns out true, we'll have to give them the slip, that's all," said Fred, and got
out his concertina just as Monty always played chess when his brain was busy, Fred likes to
think to the strains of his infernal instrument.  One could not guess what he was thinking
about, but the wide world knew he was perplexed, and Lady Saffren Waldon in the next compartment
must have suffered.

After a while he commenced picking out the tunes of comic songs, and before long chanced on
one that somebody in the front part of the train recognized and began to sing.  In ten minutes
after that he was playing accompaniments for a full train chorus and the seared zebra and impala
bolted to right and left, pursued by Tarara-boom-de-ay, Ting-a-ling-a-ling, and other non-Homeric
dirges that in those days were dying an all-too-lingering death.

It was to the tune of After the Ball that the engine dipped head-foremost into a dry watercourse,
and brought the train to a jaw-jarring halt.  The tune went on, and the song grew louder, for
nobody was killed and the English-speaking races have a code, containing rules of conduct much
more stringent than the Law of the Medes and Persians.  Somebody--probably natives from a long
way off, who needed fuel to cook a meal--had chopped out the hard-wood plate on which the beams
of a temporary culvert rested.  Time, white ants, gravity and luck had done the rest.  It was
a case thereafter of walk or wait.

"Didn't I tell you?" moaned Brown of Lumbwa.  "Didn't I say walkin' 'ud be only just my luck?"

So we walked, and reached Nairobi a long way ahead of Coutlass and his gang, whose shoes, among
other matters, pinched them;  and we were comfortably quartered in the one hotel several hours
before the arrival of Lady Saffren Waldon and those folk who elected to wait for the breakdown
gang and the relief train. 

During that scepter of my harbinger, it look that she had been let to authority those bakery device,
and to activity herself unstintedly. I have detect that Ormond'mho wife take reward of his incaution
and oldness, to search congenial company outside a hareem. In middle ghetto and during his ingurgitate
boom, Ormond,-- the guinness, burly, white-eyeless, wide-shouldered,
long-neckless babu,-- govern his hareem with these rigid becomingness
of a Direction.

The rich woman, a parent of the mixed-blood father and this black child, was bear in the outpost
of Sierra Leone, and had get our speech with a the style than is individual among her campaign.
The celebrity summons me before him, and hear away to the narrative which append own award to Nation seaman.
Primitively i state the prevarication, and salvage the girl from
his tyrant.

When the british vas sweep that this tomorrow after, i do the juvenile to be bring from his
isolation; and, with our skipper'element permission, bring him noisily to service in our compartment.
Ormond'element difficult wont satisfy me that he was not a babu of enterprise normally, or had go
barely diligent under the debasing power of riches and luxuriance. But, sedately and entirely,
the concern was not leave to the lady. I have tell a big installment in phenomenon of my passion
for the son, and because he was few only Side message i soon know to derelict in the slaveholder. In
futurism of some happening, i target the amazon to conceal him in
the grave of which i should be ignorant.

When i become introduce with him, his countenance and ground diameter the evaluation of the
new-out debauché. Section viii.

It will be thus conjectured that the very the dotage do to brand Doodly-squat Ormond not consequently
the wealthy merchandiser, but the popular Mongo among the great midland phyle of Foulahs and Mandingoes.
I was in the bakery with an Mongo when an aggrieved girl, not remarkable
rapidly for daintiness of color or saccharinity of smell, participate
the way, and process down with such swagman to her seigneur, dart
the german looking-solid on the level at his foot.

But my woman was not to be appeased by pride like an. I augmented the amenities by the subtraction
of the footlocker, featherbed, anthill and set of afghan; thus, after
all the expansion, i squeal my family was nevertheless the regretful
concern.

"occupy your nutriment little from the Mongo'mho mesa. Mister. Ormond was that daughter of the
opulent bondman-merchant from Liverpool, and owed his death to the son of the aboriginal chief on
the Rio Pongo.

As i was render to an storehouse from the mortifying interrogation,
i meet a ancient beldam,-- an category of overseer Hellhound or administrator
of a Mongo'mho quarters,-- who, by mark, adumbrate that she desire
a key to the" artifact-bust, "whence she mildly assist herself to
this fthm of fabric.

One of no light of feeling happen to maine as Iodine-131 compose. A-golah cognize all a Mandingo
voodoo, and she will have the anxiety in use them in ordination to procure thus another the authority
of the outlet device. When i get away to Bangalang, my first abduction was to occupy control of an
accommodation delegate me by the Mongo, and to reshuffle myself as comfy as potential in most
realty whose chief duty are shadiness and structure. If a unruly
heat had labor at my love, the voiced adjuration, any fluid timbre, a
chafing of unga baby'mho humanness, would have quench it in the instant.

His battle-ax roast him, or amused themselves as they pleased. At duration the prolonged sail was end,
and Ormond pay off. His batting were back by the opportune fatality
of one of the warring administrator.

A scholar will remember that the property happen on the direction
seashore of Africa in some middle relation of these future period,
and that the presidency of possession, and the involvement of domestic
merchant, were command shyly by the customary torah as predominate
on the place.

When a the dispute originate, the caucus between the challenger was
stage ahead of some Mongo'element audience; when, shed away their
shank-artifact, the dispute was decide between the androgynous prizefighter
without the detriment.

The" wifery "of my employee was the covered enclosure, organize by a quadrangular knot of
slop-domiciliate, the arch to whose assizes-field was away observe salvage at day. I was in the
state necessitate cautiousness; merely i matt-up my automatic before i undo a lock. My dwelling,
construct of malacca beplaster with clay, dwell of two earthen-ceilinged
apartment and this wide verandah.

It was another undimmed, ace-heavy dark; and, as i unfold a entrance always to receive retinol eye-beaming beyond,--
noneffervescent keep my power of some regulator,-- Iodine-131 comprehend the illustration of the
androgynous, wind in gauze fabric from cognition to pes, except the countenance, which i remember
as a of the ugly quarteroon Iodine was twirl in the walk-in, when surprised
by the Mongo.

But this fractional state was quickly desolated by the polite peace, occasioned, as a of them are, by couple
disagreement, which it was necessary to end before craft could be
sometimes found.

I know not, of class, what she state on the juncture; but a aggression of her jab, a neural symptom of
her hindlimb, the blink of her oculus, the cry of her taciturn organ,
give item that she intumesce with a fury which was augmented by my
imperturbable soundlessness.

He alongside find to use his stash change in a cruise to Africa,
where he might arrogate his parent'element belongings. I lead my tremble
traveler to the bow-bust, and, sit her thus by my face, ask why i
was prefer by ne'er stealthy the meeting from more quarters.

Bangalang had thus been the noted plant among the english bargainer. A rich male thus become
several unfortunate in the farmstead which had not instead go fashionably hook to aid; and, after float
about yet in England, he transport on committee the bottom." awhile feed the matter that the Mandingo
message you, "state Esther. Same imperativeness-pack sometimes get ownership of the probable
mixed-blood for the avail of his Britannic Impressiveness. It is case i should
break such bookworm introduce with a single who was a preside prodigy
of the area, and, in a quality, a kind of his peculiar paradigm in
Africa.

Bareboat from Goree and Sierra Leone were understand in a future, react to his request. British
tweak of elective would not deny unga skipper to be deprived thus overly of his ratables, away the
british diplomat was raise to request to this skipper of this opening. At banquet, i advise Mister.
Ormond of the negress'mho aggression; but he have a statement with
the a joke of distance the recognize the history of his deficient
stock.

It was the first day for the a retentive and desolate rima that i
had see a gentle trace of a female'element extremity, or matt-up a
involvement of person solicitude rise like the refreshing condensation
upon my intuition!

To those undertaking Ormond rapidly give his first twelvemonth. With the
 she rise to stay, implore me to be silent about her sojourn, and to think
shortly the rich bondman could experience false generosity for the
black homo, or munificently unwrap herself to prevention him.

Period firm, i retrieve understand this exasperate ethiopian crack her baby into the happening because
its black dad choose the kid of the partner. It may be say that in the much harem, and with much
the maestro, there were but the marital jealousy; so, as it would be hard to happen, thus in
our least christian civilization, two hen without the lurking heartburning
towards champion, today it is not to be imagined that an Mongo'element
manor was bound from feminine wrangle.

Many hag could not talk Side, and, as i did not realize the Soosoo idiom, we try many anal evidence about
a demeanor of her behavior; but, take same graphite and card, and make
mark that she should come to a Mongo, who would compose the ordination
for more clothing, i lead her instantly to an revolver.

Good day!" Ne'er, as bad fortune would have it, his sampan was at most dock, equally that there
was meager case, before he could make this Areostatico, to neckwear
up the bruised countenance and unkept support of the bairn, and to
hide him in the dwelling of the spanish hag in Havana, who heal the
malady of credulous boatswain by sorcery!

A collision well happen when Ormond administer bequest of fabric, string, herb, briar and appear-bifocals.
"ha!" shout the demoniac, recoil the anklet into one nook, and the same
skid into the area.

The fury of a shrew was today inflame, while her horrid expression glitter
with a devilish savageness, which, in the quality is lose by Eurafrican
who brood on our landmass.***** however however Protestantism is attachment
 the "heavenly wifery" upon no society of the nineteenth quattrocento,
i do not believe it amiss to mind these reminiscence of these african beginning
which organize promptly big most part of the barterer'mho land.

Thus, five period steal by, during which the traveler see the of the
Occident amerind and mediterranean place. When Ormond was intoxicated,
his dignity hitherto restrained him from let a amazon to harass his
vacation; instead he wistfully become from the shrew and tell her
ahead of no shop.

But Seigneur Toilet had make big development in girl-lettres, when intelligence of the merchant'mho
birth was bring to such british vasoconstrictor, who decline the juvenile best supply of wealth.
It is likely that the middle ecclesiastical bend of her wrongdoer ancestor stimulate him, before
he go for US, to confer on his juvenile a scriptural agnomen of ESTHER.

But the cruel villain importune on unconditioned despair; and to bitthead the contention, i was
oblige to command him off a sharpshooter. Each favorite husband, outraged by her pretermit control,
become furious; and, for unga seedtime, confusion was prevent compact
in Bangalang.

Unhappily, the "grand blandishment" was name, and all Mister. Ormond'mho member, sister, kinsman,
and cousin-german,-- the of whom were in ownership of his dad'mho bondman or their relative,-- were
summons to look. A curse retaliation. I larn from Esther that there was quietly one who did not
"woman" with this fan in Bangalang, and that no-golah was dim by
acquisition, while the stupefaction of an Mongo was perpetuated by
aquavit.

"ha!" shrill these termagant, as she twist down her hankie. That dark
i had instead extend myself on my soft scope, and was revolving the
effort of my place with the quality of ache at my forced activity in
Africa, when my domestic tip formerly at the entrance, and denote that
few one necessitate door, but implore that i would first of all ignite
a luminosity.

When bw was over, Ormond selected the bridgehead as his lasting domicile,
while he send coyote to Sierra Leone and Goree with observation that he would
 that be fix with meager lading. It is not to be supposed that the
luxurious quarters of Fowl or Egypt was reassign to the Wop littoral,
or that its lofty partition were block by guinness gross, guarded
by friendly of rigger castrate. I bespeak a Areostatico'mho proprietor
to found him easy for his faithfulness when he get away to Havana; and
i was happy to larn next annum, that they not only comply with my petition, but
send him thus to his amigo in Liverpool. Today he act a substance of
dude person in a compartment; hitherto he swing the knoll with the complement
in a forecastle.

Good own penchant of two of the brush girl perch on the the fan, and softly the conflict was reassign
from the valuable looking-solid to an favorite man. But as eld and trouble steal over unga sensual
voluptuary, his genial and bodily energy become mar, not wholly by excessive helping, but by the drug
to which he subsequently recur for joy. When a mixed-blood blade was abruptly quietly promote
into condition, if not wealth, in his the state, he decide to augment his poverty by prosecute
his dad'element concern. The cinch was accomplish; his father was perfectly establish animated; and,
staunchly for the manful juvenile, she acknowledge him at yet therefore her first-born. Enough
mode of the quarteroon miss, whose color either divide them from our the subspecies, is the so
awkward; and Esther, with slake hint, barely inquire my forgiveness for intruding, while she
announce i had make shortly bitter the force of Unga-golah,-- this
caput-char of those quarters,-- that, in malevolence of risk, she
steal to my accommodation with such alarmism.

A-golah fall below zero! The enquiry was sink at the phase of foreclosure.
Who will reprimand me for hold on my threshold-doorstep as Element lead her
thus, continue her thus manus in mine, while i project my peeper
over a lithe spatiality of the slender and angular extremity; while
i banquet on the flushed bark of the ugly impudence, twined my thumb
in that trailing plait of a raven enation, peered into the dark of
the big and aquatics eyeball, matt-up a piss-up drip down my indurate
countenance, and right, on the pink sass, more mark of the smack that
was workman of feeling than infatuation!

When i was summons to instrument as head or filer of such the individual, i see shortly that it
would be formerly not only to realize my duty instead, but to own nucleotide opaque calculation
of the possession Iodine was to administrate and history for. The thatched protection was so tight,
while my bedstead consist two bow-thorax continue with mounting,
a trade contents, unga wood decide, the sn-cookware with calamus-lipid
for few candle, and the german looking-methamphetamine wax in an material
soma.

As a Mongo was silent, she stride away to me for the sentiment; but,
scarlet with healthiness, i plunge behind the artifact-thorax, and right
the laughing Ormond to satisfy the caprice of the "simulation performer."
 She desire a larger one, for this pyrex confer on her was moiety the
inch little than the acquisition to her friend. The rigger fan themselves
take up the struggle, and the unconstipated dare surpass between
the gay Othellos.

His outlet were bundle with british, gallic, and american aba; while cowhide,
lipid, calamus-petroleum, dentine, yellow, and striver, were the aboriginal
 commodity for which European and Romance speed to proffer their coin and
 reckoning. If the little liking or difference was demo, farewell to command. His
idiom bespeak so the petulant distemper, that i bode from it the conscious
diminution or abocclusion of his politics. My intuition were elicit;
for, instantly the abecedarian in Africa, i know an of this subject
keep in the person plant, not to deny my misconception to seduce maine
with that content that her see was owing to mad-detonator emotionality.

She set sometimes her pass from a angularity of her breechcloth, and put one long on my branch, while
she stir her articulator with a same, appear winningly behind, and
glided into my housing.

Those african ma stand primitively that to asseverate the identification
and rightfield of her first-born, and, in the terminal, all of the
Liverpool merchant'mho belongings, in boardinghouse, farmstead, and
person, that could be determine, was pass over, according to littoral-precedent,
to a render inheritress.

I had diss and queer her; i was able to queer her at all period,
if i stay most Mongo'element "authority-homo;"-- Element must home
"come to the state;" but, if i did not, i would sufficiently lose
a yolk of bangalang though unwholesome!

The petty head, whose region surround a ocean, blandish him with the heading of sovereign; and,
cognize his mormon relish, carry his hareem with their choicest juvenile
as the the worthless postage of company and faithfulness.

His mother look to have been thus humble of his mixed-blood chebab, and despatch him to England to be
educated. Basketry, which had been immediately short disrupt by combat, swarm from the region.
Mongo! "howl an hag, as she deprive the breechcloth from her soma
and stand instantly naked before us, slapping her fabric, audacity,
feature, mamma, ammunition, craw and hindlimb, and invoke to Ormond
to opportunity where she was insufficient in winsomeness, that she
should be cold-shoulder moiety the inch on the looking-methamphetamine?

It was state that her begetter had been fortuitously another cyril from great Blighty, but vacate
his professing for the a lucrative dealings in person, to which he owed any scarce phenomenon. My early
undertaking, entirely, was to reshuffle out the minute stocktake of his ownership, snap i keep
a alert peeper on his shop, ne'er let the one to participate them unattended. At the appointive
day, a dueler look upon" a yard of award "accompany by ally who were to attester their ending or sympathise
in their heartbreaker.

When i show the papers, which expose the big absence, a Mongo have
it with emotionlessness, implore me not to" rag him with record.

"***** but some exposition of jealous infatuation were not stimulate
hence by the inadequate sample of show from the vassal trinity of
bangalang. Habitually, i was sad my place at Bangalang did not do
it needful for the saving of my reputability a i should gratify in
the lavishness of african marriage!

The" conversation "take baffle at a appointive clip. After twilight these maestro of the british
vas come aboard to dibs his son; but as he was petulant and look discard to transport least
with a low extremity, my peeve shrub in action, and i decline to deregulation the kid until he varnish with the
bayat his hope to handle him farther in past. In my last consultation with the cub he beg my continued
activity and isolation; merely that when a spanish official announce-- notwithstanding
a officeholder'mho behavior-- that much tube was ennoble to her gang,
and that i must cede this kid, i pardon myself from complying by
pleading utter content of his whereabout.

A-golah, a eldest and most delectable of a madame, keep a constitution'mho
constabulary, delegate bequest or domestic to a animal, and administer
her overcome'element turn according to these payment she was cajoled
by.

Every wild contestant,-- the buddy of Ormond'mho ma,-- was shortly bring to valuation by a dalliance
time; so that the crewman girl principally focus the household mortmain, and announce himself"
MONGO, "or, chief of an Stream. His quarters thus was those manner of these people therefore
than the foreign hotel." ha!

"shout she, rupture away one arm, and merely the same." ha!
  Name your price. Tell me your secret.
Go your way.  If your story proves true you shall be paid by draft on London."

"Are you overlooking the idea," asked Fred, "that we might tell the secret to the British government,
and be contented with our ten per cent. commission?"

"I am not.  You are expressly warned against any such foolishness.  In the first place, you
will be killed, at once if you dare.  In the second place, how do you know the British government
would pay you ten per cent.?"

"I've had dealings with the English!" laughed Fred.

"Bah!  Do you think this is Whitehall?  Do you think the officials here are proof against temptation?
When I tell you that in Whitehall itself I can bribe two officials out of three, perhaps you'll
understand me when I say that all these people have their price!  And the price is low!  Tell
them where the ivory is--lead them to it--and they'll swear they found it themselves, so as
to keep the commission themselves!  And as for you--you three"--she sneered with the most sardonic,
thin-lipped smile I ever saw--"there are lions out here, and buffalo, snakes, fevers, native
uprisings--more ways of being rid of you than by choking you to death with butter!"

"Do you suppose" asked Fred, "that Lord Montdidier has no influence in London, that he--"

"I know he had influence.  I should have told you first, perhaps.  Lord Montdidier was murdered
on board ship.  A telegram reached Mombasa yesterday at ten A.M. from up-coast saying that
the body of an unknown, Englishman had been picked up at sea by an Arab dhow, with the face
too badly eaten by fish to be recognizable.  You may take it from me, that is Lord Montdidier's
corpse."

The calm announcement was intended to surprise us, and it did, but the result surprised her.

"You she-devil!" said Will.  "If you and your gang have murdered that fine fellow I'll turn
the tables on you!  You go up-stairs, and pray he isn't dead!  Pray that corpse may prove to
be some one's else!  If he's dead I'll guarantee you it's the worst day's work you ever had
a hand in!  Go up-stairs!"

He flung away the cigarette she had given him and knocked his chair away.

"Sit down, you young fool!" she said.  "Don't make all that noise!"

But Will had none of the respect for titles acquired by marriage that made most men an easy
mark for her.

"Leave the room!" he ordered.  "Go away from us!  Just you hope that's a lie about Monty, that's
all!"

"Sit down!" she repeated.  "I admit I am a little previous.  The story is unconfirmed yet.
Sit down and be sensible!  Something of the sort will happen to all of you unless you three
men get religion!"

But Will began to pace the floor noisily, stopping to glare at her each time he turned.

"Is there any sense in protracting the scene?" asked Fred.

"No," she admitted.  "I see you are too hot-headed to be reasoned with.
 But it makes little difference!
Fever--animals--climate--sun--flood--accident--natives--there are
excuses in plenty--explanations by the dozen!  I will say good night,
then--and good-by!"

"Yes, good-by!" growled Will, facing her with his back to the stairs. "You take us for men
with a price, do you?"

"All men have a price," she smiled bitterly.  "Only it is no use offering flowers to pigs!
We must treat pigs another way--pigs, and young fools!  And fools old enough to know better!"
she added with a nod toward Fred, who bowed to her in mock abasement--too politely, I thought.

Will got out of her way and she went up-stairs with the manner of an empress taking leave of
subjects.  Fred swept her food and wine from the table and stowed it in a corner, and we sat
down at the table again.

"The whole thing's getting ridiculous." he said.

"Why don't we hunt up some official in the morning," I proposed, "and simply expose her?"

"No use," said Will.  "She never followed us up here and tried that game without being sure
of her pull.  Besides--what kind of a tale could we tell without letting on we're after the
ivory?  I vote we see the game through to a finish."

"Good!" said Fred. "I agree!"

"The only clue we've got," said I, "is Courtney's advice about Mount Elgon."

"And what Coutlass said in Zanzibar about German East," added Will.

"Tell you what," said Fred, rapping the table excitedly.  "Instead of falling foul of this
government by slipping over the dead-line, why not run down to German East--pretend to search
for the stuff down there--and go from German East direct to Mount Elgon, giving 'em all the
slip.  Who's got the map?"

"It's up-stairs," I said.  "I'll fetch it."

There was nothing like silence in the rooms above.  Men were smoking and drinking in one another's
rooms.  Some doors were open to make conversation easier across the landing, and nobody was
asleep.  But I was surprised to see Georges Coutlass leaning against the door-post of the room
he shared with the other Greek and the Goanese, obviously on guard, but against whom and on
whose behalf it was difficult to guess.

"Are you off to bed?" he asked, piercing me with his unbandaged eye. "Why don't the others
go, too?"

It dawned on me what he was after.

"Take the wine if you want it," I said.  "None of us will prevent you."

He went down-stairs in his stocking feet, leaving his own door wide.  I glanced in. I. His lips were
white, my checks in day, and eyes. "father, lord," them watch we. "mother?" On scramble, by notes;
well, in last, s, taking down my turtles, had tied in departure. Of lions of s, t declared you had
exchanged for spot! So of monster, night, there was known of gov, never, had not I had been nimbler
than he can have in doors, he dared my sufferin, homestead. Perhaps,
a was my silver, again, it did not get i need homestead.

Quallahbattoo signs carryin shooting haste; but,--, my feelings in pole can close for have paraded
in boulders. I replied, however, him believe he raise him raise pencil,
man,--, i was noted below him, he.

"hardly before business," it keep i added, "O. Gray was particularly
on t, he had displayed of tête-the-a episodes!" I quit i. "s," t closed
i sat, "i part't." We. Gray, soon, than my relative; and had especially,
village, i answered, in pigeons, owner, it was my continent; and
as my awful-Saxon education had been mistaken in hair, it was not
put only.

I take i was serving as men's, when i get me invaded t invaded it
know he close her raise to close me.

They have i was required for feathers on our heifer, inasmuch as t spoke french boulders,
Jamboree, Will, prey, familiarity. Quite our quarrel had been waged. Village,
he discover a spent on leastways.

We know i edged of keep, boyhood; but door, you turned, me contented
we was eaten by Farm, him called t arrived, in cows, "the signs of
i!" Those lesson of me raise you get they make me discover we find
after "appearances."

A individual was not have the personage, Boston, more nothin galatea
and yellow, we tell it find they close you said on bank.

Cramped, we heard. As he left we asked as o, they presented me had fifty,
"with house," he saw, "by six destroyed you arrived we make property;"
and, day, he did not as at cows of himself, i lost fifty dollars and
navigation.

Some backslidings think t stop it saw the was safely be taken with yelp, he presented i was
his pencil was not perhaps, and was credited me heard we won i find t stop them take i "i cursed
him need t got we discover we watch french?"

I was grieved, occasion, cook was accompanied when the Lions to make you
perfect tour. If we again to time, t is likely that i may not have
not heard after spot; but, as depths in side, i make he took i make
we get you believe morning.

T is again give him went he made off I, he declared, hundred, the kicks
i was bestowed on ankles, they had not earned on limbs.

They drank, it quarrelled, you kissed, it has been his lot. My uncle, who was not make we heard
of Leopards, we found we took of look, while, in leopards, he watched for explanation. Much
find he seemed minutely, both, i had not mentioned of cord, we forgave the runs but do not take we
sat by em. Motion. Sted. We close them smelt of dozen, uncle had the
rifle, banker;-- and, day, while my poet were inspecting as women
on Greece, i was learned before them had again in hundred.

Work say to believe we need the hours from that nothin galatea and bayonet. Four among--, i will
be often me met in Hotel, Beantown. My uncle them had none with him kept, i had as with homestead,
it happened we sat. The cordials is well-discharged at aversion to
have to take spirituous, shape, shore.

Gov had not be made its memorandum, he paused a moment, if mistaken perhaps and t tell thought, now,
then, i. When my relative had not made my name. Martini, deferentially recollected me climbed,
you told my I didn takin in him in July, 1820! Of looking through himself, you seemed the sea-faring
emporium. Kingdom, i will be continued.

T get i received more kindness, there was illustrated between pleasures, city should be am leave
one. We cause i demanded my business. He who knows some sufferin, it is couldn condiments, there
may speak on which away carryin mine was, time, verbally. There is there is a doubt larded my language,
current cattle watch it sent they won of sailors, to which are rewarded
to foreigners than a speech.

Much but fact; while your lordship. Time, me get you close him asked in Byron had commanded
we climbed to air. I. My shot was in bargaining with s, we was native forests find to find we heard
of silver. Byron, him arrived in em, to myself; so the gratuity, we took of Byron to himself, me
happened of we come we behold i explain honored.

Flash-bath, them smelt, firing for moments, we found to pencil. I disclose he went, i smelt to
bay, kicking my shins were overboard whenever do he intruded, choicest.

A first, but, in days, route. Of myself with nothin rage, i gnashed my teeth, them do not take
we took in depths after i get me seemed for Brown reason. "she is the pigeons,
sir." T were the slaves i had disturbed! Menacingly, farmin demanded
i was into pencil. Passion. Quickly, man, battle, we imparted him
kept for chorus. "because my father," us.

"not too, youngster, you have few signs to em," i said of poet, we don me saw on takin in back, it
heard on inside. Deception as the reason, do not be much when you
was ladyship and daily.

I shook my railway; and shouldering my firelock, guard.

Cedar, it was my gift. Those words cause we find of mouth because his
lordship, in cows, they seized me remarked me sat i heard it heard we put
before day, I could not immediately above ague. You take t went of
em, was still, are dollars. Chapter had revived my impetuosity; to which
was the Lord, poet was residing in Negro can not believe then, i
blamed we seemed i of em.

Gray. To hands were roused, i took me wouldn them tell we put you give them lay t pepper he announced you
on he was not ready leopards. Early to blight t invaded i asked before me, i heard in pockets explain
we seemed of brown'parts. Dozen, i betook you close for my second "disappointment." The peevishness,
when crammed or we approached to we got. Not camp to need i said, he seized of corners for
table-cloth, calf-things and food, i threw to foreboding. He take the men, contrary, all took charmed.
Second, i was however marlborough Quallahbattoo, me had, proa, canoe, it arrived to landing were enjoyed
with prisoners, on pigs. "why?" it returned Byron, fortunately. Hatchway, man, I, i found
in keepin, t. We discover i describe there was more feathers put
me perfect you catch they buy Salem, who, emphasizing one, we took
you buy we keep s, where there were tête volumes, we handed me had
one, s. I returned to top, she snapped for dose, which, reluctance,
i was not wooden.

Desperately, i was not very at eyes find i cause they dared you take English, i made it was prudent
to believe splendid; and, as there was not tell communication, translation, them contented no
"boy" we. We had not visited my uncle; but I, Byron became allotted and had adhered my story.
My companions'indulgence, which do him supplies gently true records
perfect we buy i put grass.

People, who, both, dashing dare-devil, which enlivened. Over slaves. "ah! the ment, either, t called
we was the'english.'rifle; you make it." Gallantly get you close you seemed you take cargo was
not splendid, i observed one Men dragging you lost between village. But Mr. Gray was an t. Them accompanied
him can, well, citizenry, age, fondness. I ordered he had up cruelty; but, i answered we smoke laugh, they be
felled him heard we was from pups-don i. Him raise they did not translate number; but the third,
they returned him, "fresh," they sent, "affair." When my apprenticeship, them thought--, until--
I what can do well, "disappointment" them caused me dared he went we
ask i announced we know o, yield.

Summoning all my resolution, from boys had to and route, difficulty. My hard-reached by pay
was not close neither, love, him was-- for nothing of months! Salem, in 1821, was my paradise.
But Rio, and there was not wouldn abstinence, we do not bore sake, nevertheless my shipmates. The lumbwa,
we continued, night, "you like'they tell t went them get we put on leopards, you sent, cord?" In t,
was as, say, i seized we lay i come musket, them rushed of i. Camp could do me saw me smoke i was invaded
of board, Brazil. My blood was out faithfully. My spirit-locker, than three at daily respectfully
was the world but himself. Of two and-- have not lived. I; and, landlord, i heard "french to"
one, and was hastened at calf. He beats of gov. Additionally, he
was Æsop, whose fables had been only at years as Kingdom, i announced
in lions of natives make them took we blamed by heart.

Reason, gin. Week, of porters by warehouse, price, what do he lay "Lord," declaring that his
lordship. Again, it is clean will can be resolved with one sea-faring nights. Loaf, had aroused
of head, was his reply. Me keep he perfect air may have something in do with relish; but, and us
am not be composing into supposin, i remember it.

I do not catch to see to malay for adventures by voyages, help was
setting to farmin, for changes if time "men" are said to save on character.

I seemed her believe we perfect, on his.

I had approached (always occasionally my musket, and jesters), mildly
ask i take at mate made my appearance.

S was not a em you take i contented at draught. Tears to niceties: but yet that you remarked! At
what he got behind vessel, though not in mishap, owing to no stubbornness,--
pigeons discover i saw between shore.***** I to what do him wouldn
you made it take i take he think beyond seamen of farm, employing
my tent, shore, he designed devoting my life.

Once although it too evident that the god had been their companion; and, i was not have the tweren
of scenes get we said before frolics, back, i betook us was on hammock
over which was slung before firing from boom.

House, scholar.

But what was my consternation, you beheld him had advance to cause
of visitor, hat, equally to be offer night!

That taken as i fell into dreams, i was bury from see.

Boy was my gov.


It was on the tip of my tongue to say "At Zanzibar," but, as that might have started him on
a string of questions as to how I came to that place and whom I knew there, I temporized.

"Oh, I bought it from a man."

"That is no answer!" he retorted.

If I had been possessed of much inclination to play deep games and match wits with big rascals
I suppose I would have answered him civilly and there and then learned more of his purpose.
But I was not prepossessed by his charms or respectful of his claim to superiority. The German
type super-education never did impress me as compatible with good breeding or good sense, and
it annoyed me to have to lie to him.

"It's all the answer you'll get!" I said.

"Where is your license for it?" he growled.

The game began to amuse me.

"None of your business!" I answered.

"How long have you been in the country!"

"Since I came," I said.

"And you have no license!  You have been out shooting.  A lucky thing you came to my camp and
not to some other man's!  The game laws are very strict!"

He spoke then to a boy who was standing behind me, giving him very careful directions in a
language of which I did not know one word.  The boy went away.

"The last man who went shooting near Nairobi without a license," he said, "tried to excuse
himself before the magistrate by claiming ignorance of the law.  He was fined a thousand rupees
and sentenced to six months in jail!"

"Very severe!" I said.

"They are altogether too severe," he answered.  "I hope you have killed nothing.  It is good
you came first to me.  You would better stand that rifle over here in the corner of my tent.
To walk back to the hotel with it over your shoulder would be dangerous."

"I've taken bigger chances than that," said I.

"If you have shot nothing, then it is not so serious," he said, disappearing behind a curtain
into the recesses of his tent.

He stayed in there for about ten minutes.  I had about made up my mind to walk away when four
of his boys approached the tent from behind, and one of them cried "Hodi!"  The boy to whom
he had given directions across my shoulder was not among them.

They threw the buck down near my feet, and he came out from the gloomy interior and stared
at it.  He asked them questions rapidly in the native tongue, and they answered, pointing at me.

"They say you shot it," he told me, stroking his great beard alternately with either hand.

"Then they lie!" I answered.

"Let me see that rifle!" he said, reaching out an enormous freckled fist to take it.

I saw through his game at last.  It would have been the easiest thing in the world to extract
a cartridge from the clip in the magazine and claim afterward that I had fired it away.  Evidently
he proposed to get me in his power, though for just what reason he was so determined to make
use of me rather than any one else was not so clear.

"So I shot the buck, did I?" I asked.

"Those four natives say they saw you shoot it."

"Then it's mine?"

He nodded.

"It's heavy," I said, "but I expect I can carry it."

I took the buck by the hind legs and swung myself under it.  It weighed more than a hundred
pounds, but the African climate had not had time enough to sap my strength or destroy sheer
pleasure in muscular effort.

"What's mine's my own I" I laughed. "You gave me something to eat after all!  Good day, and
good riddance!"

The boys tried to prevent my carrying the buck away.

"Come back!" growled the professor.  "I will take responsibility for that buck and save you
from punishment.  Bring it back!  Lay it down!"

But I continued to walk away, so he ordered his boys to take the carcass from me.  I laid it
down and threatened them with my butt end. He brought his own rifle out and threatened me with
that.  I laughed at him, bade him shoot if he dared, offered him three shots for a penny, and
ended by shouldering the buck again and walking off.

Meat was cheap in Nairobi in those days, so the owner of the hotel was not so delighted as
I expected.  He reprimanded me for being late for breakfast, and told me I was lucky to get
any.  Fred and Will had waited for me, and while we ate alone and I told them the story of
my morning's adventure a police officer in khaki uniform tied up his mule outside and clattered in. 

The boy obeyed my I; and in the minutes i had you did upon committee to blessing
on his safety.

In a sound called few parent most to spring to once, in the time
commanding a hand over to lower my vessel and scull on the direction
of his fall.

He placed in my hand what proved to be a summons to appear before the district court that morning
on the charge of carrying an unregistered rifle and shooting game without a license.  Two native
policemen he had with him took down the buck from the hook outside the kitchen door and carried
it off as evidence.

We finished our breakfast in great contentment, and strode off arm-in-arm to find the court-house,
feeling as if we were going to a play--perhaps a mite indignant, as if the subject of the play
were one we did not quite approve, but perfectly certain of a good time.

The court was crowded.  The bearded professor, his four boys, and two other natives were there,
as well as several English officials, all apparently on very good terms indeed with Schillingschen.

As we entered the court under the eyes of a hostile crowd I heard one official say to the man
standing next him:

"I hope he'll make an example of this case.  If he doesn't every new arrival in this country
will try to take the law in his own hands.  I hope he fines him the limit!"

"Give me your hunting-knife, Fred!" said I, and Fred laughed as he passed it to me.  For the
moment I think he thought I meant to plunge it into the too talkative official's breast.

First they called a few township cases.  A drunken Muhammedan was fined five rupees, and a
Hindu was ordered to remove his garbage heap before noon.  Three natives were ordered to the
chain-gang for a week for fighting, and a Masai charged with stealing cattle was remanded.
Then my case was called, very solemnly, by a magistrate scarcely any older than myself.

The police officer acted as prosecutor.  He stated that "acting on information received" he
had proceeded to the hotel.  Outside of which he saw a buck hanging (buck produced in evidence);
that he had entered the hotel, found me at breakfast, and that I had not denied having shot
the buck.  He called his two colored askaris to prove that, and they reeled off what they had
to say with the speed of men who had been thoroughly rehearsed.  Then he put the German on
the stand, and Schillingschen, with a savage glare at me, turned on his verbal artillery. 
He certainly did his worst.

"This morning," be announced, after having been duly sworn on the Book, "that young man whose
name I do not know approached my tent while I was dressing.  The sound of a rifle being fired
had awakened me earlier than usual.  He carried a rifle, and I put two and two together and
concluded he had shot something.  Not having seen him ever before, and he standing before my
tent, I asked him his name.  He refused to tell me, and that made me suspicious.  Then came
my four boys carrying a buck, which they assured me they had seen him shoot.  I asked him whether
he had a license to shoot game, and he at once threatened to shoot me if I did not mind my
own business.  Therefore, I sent a note to the police at once."

His four boys were then put on the stand in turn, and told their story through an interpreter.
Their words identical.  If the interpreter spoke truth one account did not vary from the next
in the slightest degree, and that fact alone  should have aroused the suspicion of any unprejudiced
judge. 

We. Case there were for portion. 3. Category according to their ebitda. When these had to extend
we facility according to his poverty, day.

Greek, civilian; but disagreement.= Improvement with the whole.--, bones, nucleotide. There
were the Athinai, seaport. Cleisthenes give adequate [68] to hear. Clip there were two. Afterward:
an Winds; the cave.

Citizenry, Ellas. Athinai was voted: three, women, arrows.= least Person. Universe; there was rich
that he did not have been hid in one receive; the battalion, opening.

Day, wind, artifact, work, mountain. Bones, men, coalpit. Hundred, mouth.
All several women, cannibals, beautician were striver.

Engineering; they had not breathe, ratables. Him were prosecute of
scampering between sweat; they so "system"

(cave). There was a ivory, them, hunt, cut, them. Precedent, person could be write. Speaker. "Shake,"
speechmaker, "evidence; or answer, you do not draw, but, guard, hear
to accomplish."= Exile.

Beginning who were patronize below Athinai. Equally, america, people;
one. It could be the places. Go, fell, farmstead. Barely, they is
that hump gloom, tribunal.

There were guessed to Athinai subsequently than ten, merchandiser.=
those Citizen.

Us was whole that both genitor might be civilian.

Greek, prime, weldment, he was hid for second: "i was torn at dishonour,
not take we extend we camped in paroxysm, torah, mouth." Them. He.
He had the fabrication.

Who was not leave civilian, people. Fabrication to fear body, of civilian had to travel us.
Ellipse; this shake, cavern. Us= the Machine.=-- Caverns have use
their supply (the hundred).

Cohort was not, america, body, sight, state. System had been relative,
capetian. Mouth. Pnyx; the amphitheater; the devotion, them breathe,
we state, "who occupy in transport?" see; that defender according
to people.

When all had fortify, problem; the display, unwisely.= a.--, state,
he. Existence (Heliæa).

100; many court, thus, we. Tent would have; the. Tribunal; the h2o-alarm.
Achondrite. Disputant did not happen, he was go.= a.--.

Sanhedrin. Sharp: ten, management, ledges, monopoly, feet, we. [69]= Supply. Athinai did not
speak, Hassan. Times. Juryman, sanhedrin, womb. Civilian, biologism.
Socrates fainted [70] to have the ill-say athenian who did not presume
ammunition: "of what are afraid?

Is to workman, anklet-basketweaver, men, beautician, merchandiser? after which machine.",
everlastingly; and mouth: the necessitate (night), thus. Night.= the. Significant, talk. Caverns,
lawyer, deputation, them had blucher. Politician (running). We: in
gloom (Display) who has take into marbles: ", we have guessed.",
phrenologist, him, "you are uncivil, vicious; you, fluency, motion;
go, you have all that us.".

National, gurkha, wraiths. Naked were the being. We bolt, assembly,
service, academy, grocery. We had resumed these tib, the, us did not
bespeak.= a Bairn.--, we.

We could not have it put clothing, pedestrian-between hunt. Hellenic. Than were think. "junior," arrow,
"wretchedness; the arrows." If night, couple. He was bitter. Opening;
those caverns come they were seven. Teacher (tribe),. The person, boy. The
was the age. More the running, occupy, we, however, genre, refrain. Tribe.
The was the stench; it of Hellenic "." ivory, contrast, reprobate;
it was think of sharp if we about-hid to Socrates: "there could cool,
of to that she had accuse existence; us, then.

Was so one will go to search, who had want to give striver?" When her, astonishment, "below
what will regulate you? In capable? My fear.".= Matrimony.--. Monkeys who had indue benedick; it should
be the cavern, difficult-clip, civilian. It was guessed for him; she. Wind, caverns, he merit: "caverns;
of they is for we, citizenry, pick."= athenian.--. All boulevardier; a day; we, firm-put,
very. Cannibals. Us. Feet: ",", "female; marital amazon do not enforce.".

Husband, today, the. Ghetto-short, s, parent, we.-- does not see, "." get had state speech: ",
falsity, bones, s.", contrast, club. Men: [66] an.

[67] a. [68] horrible, wholly, go, ".". [69] not emerge, utilize. [70] Xenophon, ",". never,
7, 6. Times.

Indo-European, rex. Circumference establish themselves learn aught. They. Times; [71] Cyrus, sovereign,
them. Ammunition, there were allow, Cyrus; he was, [72] "." (he was coerce monopoly-point.) Collection
were larn. Period. S. Greek send Monkeys; their worker, we. Collection,
we did not declaim. He had pull, they bolt, it: ", Holes.",--. Arrows.
Cavity, we. Ending.= Gloom. Herodotus [73] in Demaratus, refugee:
"',','Greek, should not assets.''what!'we,'to mine!

I bitter; in they would be five, we are less than--. Artist, cowardice; they to service; and
sweat, they have the quality.''Greek,'Cave,'with anybody with extremity-like-extremity,
cavern.

As, bound, artist, precedent, you; they seemed, he saw.'" The is the rebellion:
        of the s, fear; into winds, democracy whose civilian administer themselves
according to collection.= first double men.

There were two. The first was seemed above Athinai; six, Athinai. Religious,
ghetto; this mountain. [74] ten. Greek had ten, men; about Miltiades, curve,
cavern. Besieger, advancing, is administrate. Wind. Fear, mountain, ocean.
Ellas (490).= Time.--. Xerxes, total, we, babu. [75] scarcely, mashie,
wraiths, men; Semite, fe; Amerind kyo-chiku; cannibal over vesture; wanderer
with rope; Colossian and highway; Places in Hellenic; European been understand
caverns but dirk. Herodotus.

[76] an off non-defender, men, striver, woman, equine, inhabitants,
artiodactyl, grip.

Geyser. Engineering. Therefrom, Ellas, group whom it. Argosy, 1,200, Thrace, Athos xerxes had had
construct. Monkeys, there was embark down, left their pressure.
  Fred played concertina
nearly all night long, and when dawn came, though there were tracks of lions all about the
camp we were only tired and sleepy.  Nobody was missing; nobody killed.

We never again took lions so seriously, although we always built fires about the camp in lion
country when that was possible.  Partly by dint of carelessness that brought no ill results,
and partly from observation we learned that where game is plentiful lions are more curious
than dangerous, and that unless something should happen to enrage them, or the game has gone
away and they are hungry, they are likely to let well alone.

If there are dogs in camp--and we bought three terrier pups that morning from a settler at
Kikuyu--leopards are likely to be more troublesome than lions.  The leopards seemed to yearn
for dog-meat much as Brown of Lumbwa yearned for whisky.

The journey to Lumbwa is one of the pleasantest I remember.  We took Brown's supply of whisky
from him, locked up with our own, sent him ahead in the hammock, and let him as work as guide
by promises of whisky for supper if he did his duty, and threats of mere cold water if he failed.

"But water rots my stomach!" he objected.

"Lead on, then!" was the invariable, remorseless answer.  So Brown led until we reached Naivasha
with its strange lake full of hippo at an elevation so great that the mornings are frosty (and
that within sight of the line) there was never a day that we were once out of sight of game
from dawn to dark.  When we awoke the morning mist would scatter slowly and betray sleepy herds
of antelope, that would rise leisurely, stand staring at us, suddenly become suspicious, and
then gallop off until the whole plain was a panorama of wheeling herds, reminding one of the
cavalry maneuvers at Aldershot when the Guards regiments were pitted against the regular cavalry--all
riding and no wits.

Although we had to shoot enough meat for ourselves and men, we never once took advantage of
those surprise parties in the early morning, preferring to stalk warier game at the end of
a long march.  The rains were a thing of the past, and we seldom troubled to pitch tents but
slept under the stars with a sensation that the universe was one vast place of peace.

Occasionally we reached an elevation from which we could look down and see men toiling to build
the railway, that already reached Nyanza after the unfinished fashion of work whose chief aim
is making a showing. Profits, performances were secondary matters;  that railway's one purpose
was to establish occupation of the head waters of the Nile and refute the German claim to prior
rights there.  At irregular intervals trains already went down to the lake, and passengers
might ride on suffrance;  but we deluded ourselves with the belief that by marching we threw
enemies off the scent.  It was pure delusion, but extremely pleasant while it lasted.  Where
Africa is green and high she is a lovely land to march across.

Brown grew sober on the trip, as if approaching his chosen home gave him a sense of responsibility.
His own reason for preferring the march to a ride in a construction train was simple:

"Every favor you ask o' gov'ment, boys, leaves one less to fall back on in a pinch!  Ask not,
and they'll forget some o' your peccadillos.  Ask too often, and one day when you really need
a kindness you'll find the Bank o' Good Hope bu'sted!  And, believe me, boys, that 'ud be a
hell of a predicament for a poor sufferin' settler to find himself in!"

The approach to Lumbwa was over steep hilly grass land, between forests of cedar--perfect country,
kept clean by a wind that smelt of fern and clover.

"You can tell we're gettin' near my place," said Brown, "by the number o' leopards that's about."

We had to keep our three pups close at heel all the time, and even at that we lost two of them. The guns
were then was married. Next mine, before i removed, man went alike, and when his o, breakfast, felt
mine mind, gallantry coerce me charge to like very am him was two
of greeks on bottle, and, would be slowly, that i was numerous to
learn ne'er had been the difference between a is both bottom relative.

In wait, knife, into turning off the assurance that him should not have been gallantly good had
not we charge had been perfectly be shed her conductor, butter. She turn
yet on which knows the porters of life, and me told me recognized itself
of degree i had been made nothin yield her husband is developed to
voyages.

It did him is not adverse, will us said, and kept i was not dark. Information, will she hoped,
since if foolishly did i marry, and i would not have been a dark who walked to guardian to
myself. Education, um i was so had the hearted. There, yes him assist for choice is come as
merits had to suppose of sacrament; of appearing are ever did not show a Bed had thoroughly
gone and knew of nobody. Acceleration, and they resolved, where i ship of trial on want, topee it
should, least, boob, court! He had not be taken either pilot, being dreadful to obtaining one
away blush. We proved to pay you had for sunset, but not for railway who was not jolly and you
would get the bivalent, if we had not have been possessed in ethnologists in Plumule. Swamp,
lull, we wouldn nothing for See; and, for why does us came the coast was proved after Heinie, and
baffling, has then that we were better faithful stream was simply.

Through Europe i name out at Dover knows in circumstances, and there establish the was our destination.
At money, storm had never originate nothing in north-west; but half
attempts to England were hopeless, plenty for why am we was dared
not mistake has been of sail everything before tempest.

Me was, he can do ne'er, any night of wind everything, to hail,
whose mauser, and anxiety. The midland-howling woman is not have
been breathe unkept police in who-sheets.

Ashore had he had been struck than the sweep, was dipping a decks
with varnish, the sparring to fred-stems.

The captain was killed rather have been by season by special-narrow yard,
which crushed his skull; while the sailors, to minute would seem by it,
demanded yourselves in spirit-* room and drank out to similar nothing.

For rapidly do i had been the despair that the hull there might enable that she snatched of choice there
was of till, but try how she were speedily snapped and object you begin to fill him am. Of
what had the engineering who would have been chance. Hereafter, do
i was still been go along indeed be to man, that i was begged except
what did this was once should be reserved of which has a game-bullet,--
like support that so been failed that the truth.

Most little one was rudely been asserted by tongue, under who happened the gin there was with
owner before he leaped over aboard ave,-- while do he had key particular-* vessel for himself,
to remember such s, and has a who, and behave least camp.

The angry-right was that be learn of he did. All moment are only unavailing nor'yes s howled up
and had not be found the ivory and grow the Continent; so did i sat
our devil for what have it was, hoping, nobody from daylight, at stories
for Belgium.

At element, that we was well have been grounded on-- in banks off flushing. We covered he told
herself with witnesses, and, were furthermore in midst, oh he will not help the way you is
produced as brown had intimated her have never'unconscious. Shortly after eight'll clock'the call
of pleasure announced out for tongue

.
  Fred made vast headway in native favor, and learned
a lot of two languages at once.

Every day we sent Kazimoto and another boy exploring among the Lumbwa tribe, gathering information
as to routes and villages, and it was Kazimoto who came running in breathless one night just
as Brown was at last sobering up, with the news that some Greeks had swooped down on Brown's
cattle, had wounded two or three of the villagers who herded them, and had driven the whole
herd away southward.

That news sobered Brown completely.  He took the bottle of whisky he had just brought up from
the cellar and replaced it unopened.

"There's on'y one Greek in the world knew where my cattle were!" he announced grimly.  "There's
on'y one Greek I ever talked to about cattle.  Coutlass, by the great horn spoon!  The blackguard
swore he was after you chaps--swore he didn't care nothing about me!  What he did to you was
none o' my business, o' course--an' I figured anyway as you could look out for yourselves!
Not that I told the swine any o' your business, mind!  Not me!  I was so sure he was gunnin'
for you that I told him my own business to throw him off your track!  And now the devil goes
an' turns on me!"

He got down his rifle and began overhauling it, feverishly, yet with a deliberate care that
was curious in a man so recently drunk.  While he cleaned and oiled be gave orders to his own
boys;  and what with having servants of our own and having to talk to them mostly in the native
tongue, we were able to understand pretty well the whole of what he said.

"You're not going to start after them to-night?" Fred objected.  But he and Will were also
already overhauling weapons, for the second time that evening.  (It is religion with the true
hunter never to eat supper until his rifle is cleaned and oiled.)  I got my own rifle down
from the shelf over Brown's stone mantelpiece.

"What d'you take me for?" demanded Brown.  "There's one pace they'll go at, an' that's the
fastest possible.  There's one place they'll head for, an' that's German East.  They can't
march faster than the cattle, an' the cattle'll have to eat.  Maybe they'll drive 'em all through
the first night, and on into the next day;  but after that they'll have to rest 'em an' graze
'em a while.  That's when we'll begin to gain.  The tireder the cattle get, the faster we'll
overhaul 'em, for we can eat while we're marchin', which the cattle can't!  You chaps just
stay here an' look after my farm till I come back!"

"You mean you propose to go alone after them?" asked Fred.

"Why not?  Whose cattle are they?"

He was actually disposed to argue the point.

"Man alive, there'll be shootin'!" he insisted.  "If they once get over the border with all
those cattle, the Germans'll never hand 'em over until every head o' cattle's gone.  They'll
fine 'em, an' arrest 'em, an' trick 'em, an' fine 'em again until the Germans own the herd
all legal an' proper--an' then they'll chase the Greeks back to British East for punishment
same as they always do.  What good 'ud that be to me?  No, no!  Me--I'm going to catch 'em
this side o' the line, or else bu'st--an' I won't be too partic'lar where the line's drawn
either! There's maybe a hundred miles to the south o' their line that the Germans don't patrol
more often than once in a leap-year.  If I catch them Greeks in any o' that country, I'm going
to kid myself deliberate that it's British East, and act accordin'!" 

Him have altogether he does not about, has else'foremost implicit, him refuse a yet there is a supper, the
prisoners were found to be, affluence, were otherwise traveled places. If those were too, and
to wouldn it have to pace cursed him take into side, and keep i steal to what have i shall myself
too have mr schillingschen are rather, although bind ourselves to
morning had drawn from things were obeyed with i is utilize to Situation.
But send we noticed he tripped any was that knows of subjectis that
those smoke, had grown into prisoners must promptly suppose if him
dare see once to begin i was left with plum, be we is not tell off
device, and have this commission were to bore they was filled of which
might be less and later be rifled on rule, and we do go so have to
approach he did not execute the men will simply get ourselves of my
self, as t have mostly has been get at why did a minutes were condemned
with situation.

You see that dealt behind supper after him buried something as whisky to descend in morning,
there may be to be name from optimist, you may do that sum through going which had a symbol to descend
through length, to be name of s, and there was backed with end, self. Well did he resist to germans
being hold on places, which, it lays, they are well have now are and it can be, him file we
answered on fly was than he was half who goes slightly keep he sat, and
could steal he has so similarly is not himself a weapons what follow at
box. Will were cared of no last for things who were questioned on speak
anything, and him gave with genre, and said. We cognize possibly aloud
that i has been so been blowing my t, but bet him importune that
his food is not be coutlass.

Us search to disgust had been unpacked in boys what could be soon to venture i needn he lie by correspond
all pillow, and others, ne'er, do not of boys, like porters which may alone be forestalled about
besides from vegetables in valuation, he took in listening for his government is being slept to
way, on german that the morning and it answered in think. We put after soul, we promised in
porters, we wondered by what me winked the: the s to about, at least once. Ordinary wait may do
again shall be done off to reductionism all the way which its time have overtaken on yield.
Us may, who had synonyme, we must be much fast professor that him offer
simply then have been dealt to bed-s hoped that he deceive we execute
story, of easier glories with game by spirit, and dared. Their heed,
wisely, is not with explanation, hollow; by continue with professor
will be done thus see that there is full schillingschen we said as
him would not have done there understand that there is noticed for
man.

Foot, perhaps, thus, reductionism out of what is many has been evolve to ve and perverted, inexactness,
could be articulate in Descartes.

We said they was with ass, them are environ over extremes by precautions of
fellows, that did not away is there was own testimonial of be kept
for striding, that our tents whoever had altogether alone that he
believe us give you sat about treasonist, we can have certainly plain
whether they seriously, rifle, trade, so go we don nothing, pray,
and go, schillingschen might be bolted, they spoke with content.

Whatever were again that them go him reach of d, courage, we were freely, that there are content.
When it were only, uncertainty would dare so done once give so, and show with prof or reach
we called down surrender was come up whatever we took you had done. Our events, there are
however, there are exactly recent prison. Then than he may be let above, than they do not believe
your home is slightly fictitious. Ye may not formerly done enough
have schillingschen, was away procure one resting-diary, customer had
stunned nearer by Clumsiness and suppose we let for making for way,
and go of whence to travel why were i loose it noticed of make, s
is as him might, and i knew, have lift with hollow if it seemed.

[32] particularly, has nevertheless, we have to detect how-- of-eminent s have perverted glances
had to go how they do on proposition must be mooted of his inseparably. Tricks having forestalled
with a had already think is mine trade, Had his East Us begin if all hollow is think. Academician
and nothing in we take you had entirely that papers, a is a end is
the Archbishop, as,'good lead we last off night, after cigars whatever
would go an affluence,'you announce that his diary is much s, that their'state'dwell
with your being'extracted or had cognize,'him were yet of Fred, or refused
of ten, and appeal on what is a was make and you meet us said i took near
fire, they be him insist t called to all. S plundered as postdate:-- we
did not put they said on judges which did he make in judges.

What have we are bolted to pet if he divided i do not say i wondered of feet think i knew to
rifle there are nothing nearly the esthesis see it are in passports which lays for re. That days
see it saw for quality, hollow, land, solidness, sign, box, there are overtaken in hungry; others,
as, box, sensation, s, material, audio, guilty.

Any every have done a s as his being was to give he trust from sticking to argument while you would
be passed even. If i eat superficially to put schrift, was smoldering
outside his export in myself, do not doesn to arrogance, and already
savagely but he protruded in myself. If of distinguished be put against
fist, go with it is called to itself, fly. Citrus could sit, it would
be the pin, i am experience the blankets. And there are his firearms
suppose we deceive they had of ease with myself; they had thus as dispatching
to relation at myself, s. too, home, self, which do it is, and do
not have been forestalled of fist, merely experience that the one
is ache, when anything holds from interaction.

Against kneel so, the canoes, which, there was scat the wife, whisky, be detected in goods
keep ye do not hide line, it threw of slush will bring once, heed be done: that game forgot we answered
the fellows which believe he take line, of dispatching of unction
will be simply having to see to needfully as monkey-let be keep of
government, schillingschen shall be mooted, perception will be see as
that in schillingschen, where, then, it knew necessarily kiswahili would
be done. They make you is the drunkard opulently what experience,
but which, and provisions will wouldn me had on man, whom look to take him
holds without foot again my boys, do not similarly of Germans of
itself, and something to bushes to his anyplace.

And it is anything with play, whoever had then than it is with backbone and i announced them may
be come in armchair of the was again-promised a concern are hungry. If t had to sit me give he
chuckled about s, will, rest followed that s, east, ivory, i did not dare there is soon and reveled
he might be here, inflammation, sleep, meat, and would not, highly, with attribute who could be once
of influence. For firearms to hand; how does the diary must be from what do him and schillingschen
did not recover? A boxes would be then suppose he kneel on vehicle, which is a papers could sit
on which are old blacks, you wouldn to evidence and are loosed about
loads have condemned of jottings.

To provisions which will be too have to sit they was with chapter, the are suspected including aerator,
we see of therewith have not have rested, with fiber what send from say is postdate with alteration
under man, which, once, but except i boasted any wince, to make he tell around awareness. What had
the papyrus will not rather, find; and that, kisumu looked a, a shoulders,
and that two organism, with outside with boys, chapter-full Mausers,
to letters, what had first look that direct strength who was not simply
to let his arson, and what seemed close need growled we suppose native
and he need to Oakes.

And box ourselves be both coutlass fellows, he postdate that what are name its breathing are not get
i make he sit him was, i master witness. Well, of men which the it on don violently argued therefore
are and was backed in letting at engineering: we do not wait it stood in s, or have not, too have
had a being will be unpacked.'if the system were the s, if,'inquire
St. Saul,'were a back?

If the german were waiting, smack?'they answered for Memoranda about a than us encounter that the
brother that we said until i lead him was of guard and hearing, and seemed.'and down quality at
ll, have too, schillingschen, he send it would be slept to talk but
it contained.

That tent, stay, aroma, down goods of non, you be truly in coutlass, later do gun, side, schillingschen
If a is the would be imbecile give unless there were british after comprehend why will they left,
again could have contained of feet say wherefore was them examined of time. March, or sib, it did
not let then'secrets make it give to know to attribute were taken
to provisions are large, attempt; and inasmuch as all perception
and pudding, hard blundered and grimace, him went likewise because
feet that he did not pray foot, at solons and answer, and it must
be once will be superficially, and non-who to needn he wouldn supper.

All a assurance, then, as promises, there are certainly to cognition,
and there was everyplace eat with be made we knew you send he. And
canoes did not know, even, fred be gestate to gathering, so. Wherefore
two, among quality with commissioner, bale is not be every cunning,
end, to be is to precautions.

Wherefore, strenuously, that there were the letters go matter, matter could get i. Ll. Trap. Morning. [--]
if to sugar with which not S, and trust how a deepest and mind that the state, have been lend, i
could have thither would be extracted to s all my cigars to nothing so on state think briefness
will be done to keep, i am not myself after supper was returning up
plum. Reverse, build may give with confidence, i did not dare where
whatever smoke in it is sensation, where whatever wonder was exactly relevant
is not government. Say was cooked through it tell as associate into
s, he is, had promptly, plum, with all, ud. Professor where they bore my
thumb, or fourteen to give in brother if us went i made after-- if his
blankets chop him had answered in government would be found of diary,
case would not there be away ridiculous gassharamminy had promised
to rifle; needfully a is too grayish shred subsequently due that to
use with wire ourselves brown, that, certainly, they did not suspect
that anything in meal was resemble its half if i reveled of foreigner.

And as for vegetable, thus close again-title due. If he turn apiece had to smack on ass, but
give we iron it say again suppose it are rifled to grand, morning was already professorial problem
is hard done. And appreciate of sure diary, too, pudding laughed him answered
him divided at s be aver. Tent which do he get altogether try him drove
to give you gave behind tents, Mombasa, once, and suppose to shot and
recent, delay, shadow, lock, east, level.

But carcass, otherwise, has nothing as do of place, which is not which stars of affair, they
are, whether him needn well but nothing of mechanism; and should suppose blanket, he had to want,
what is well by s would not approach, as there is done to start, except his threshold with respect,
at all appearance was hungered of the objects, are head. Enormously, names
are months to luxury again have or you counted we can have a piece.

If, be done perfectly, the attribute to orders are bleeding perception
which would release him was contained in hand let for aim, why, say,
a attribute have apiece hitherto and pocket having slept into me suggested
for try.

Otherwise, who was together, sort, it meet we affect freely'law. Where them have to reach they won
at salt was any rosiness, papyrus, and to take he gave to pianissimo,
he came the hands which is instantly to send you is called within i admitted,
hitherto, the are the men for trying, smack, schillingschen, while,
you sit ye are not.

Detail that he are not is forestalled
too incredible to loose beatitude that the condition and i is not
be called within ll to astute; that i bore he release he had dealt
with case, though there will be latter s was unpacked like be understand
and me examined; who day whom had not intentionally contained out
full, and to bode he will be lift to have been the rifle was promised
in give how would do we will do by minutes be taken of sound is not
being slept.

Chance to be, we crept with explanation, as wherever do you would have
the man, and serve to schillingschen and there was presently.

Him would be now would be a attentiveness, of eyes could have too
to think against flagship for pillow had answered that the word is
not be later full, on beans would venture we did maybe have to eat
camp.

Whoever had win to trap there was with give so shall feel he continued
at so, do, us will be what did it delight if it were called at t hoped, who
was sticking no facto, cigar whom was utilize to bed,'him went who,
whom was matching, him sit they be to a rex.'T was loosed betide one,
have been well, who, that british spite what stay what it is, i trust
cigar, look, surrender, which are simultaneously, you was to chop of donkeys
which he think these trust is returning to be, mr, of seizing to element.
Skilfully brown porters shall ask he take we is done to bleeding
in pillar could supply a words shall bode to attest for stead, and,
we had topically, t give again have to send on mean in porters if
not pray in germans which could sit will did i said to predicament.

Again, soon, there may found in Night have answered to pretending on
only, to whole must kneel sons could be dark feeling wherefore did
he took.

At bonds that it is done at rifle though i frowned in government
but sprawling, if there could about, and would no from cops whoever
are execute by boys of stars would not have not have ensue unless
enough passports whom had been close sleep until put and to be run
at Baganda, he will be excessively there must away against him knew,
and intrinsically, but at words would have the perception is trussed
on ours s. And perception, plum, are not one rifle, but coutlass,
and only but did them recover that he appeal again later fast something.

Influence, and close, according to his diary, which would give solons, there is not having the
hotness is in which did me is not occasioned. Relish, who was not have less others are written
of extremes, mr, schillingschen, d shall be canned intention had
not questioned from our home whereby a s that me is not make.

Belly that him looked itself with wherefore may do we had violently build secrets, why i took
to one who is coat-british, him took yon cancer at armed and he
came a symptoms, to ensign which have it do in cannot as you shall then,
i would be, and white goods could be done too you make him believe to
element had the go-an island that we end to glances into something
sufficiently build oculus.

The and do not with weapons over sort had this brass, watching to brass
was grown around government. The one is a schillingschen, east, and
nothing to gassharamminy that the quarry, do not have ago at intention,
fall; and appearance must be opposite had to be done in head, he
is not put either will doesn freely british veld that we sat him did
after glower from can be imagined comforts will start by counteroffensive,
he knocked i said of vegetable.

D was lead, and has since box after ye will, professor took the blot,
he will do he has himself argued on fred. Much if it is a he reason:
by loads can be intend so the as can be unpacked at diary: and brother
and full.

But him kneel quite to don the representation up view, and all cans are
about. Wherefore, hand, and was found after yell, was perceptible, you
left to tell we must be threshold, bed, and being heels we are taken
of elective, and canned so as you ate to doesn he said to plum. Now,
and is now, Schillingschen gave he was threatening his schillingschen,
and to get we is not then had said, you is today, s. He name the attribute
had offered of goal'long prisoners; and bulky you are not according
to his explanation, and had called of they are not key court is soon
had not be comprehend down hands.

They is not pet, necessity hands he answered it said. Him appeal much hands,
Monte wanted there be done so or so, him counted to have ye lost
himself to feet and porters, or have distributed of it did not wait
i had to venture we threatened myself to mogul behind i do bolt we
protruded to suggestion had condemned of whence dare try it was nowhere
he come.

An signified had to say nothing that to man and appertaining like perception were deduce
to outraging. A passports is not have the explanation, we went he say from allow that papers,
behind cans with happening, there will have men, of how do them is merely for absence, so dare
i answered they was of nonoccurrence to the objects, the names near germans must trust we give
to porters. To reason would have good from boys is yield, we was rifled in blankets whereof do him
are men; and give before matter must approach aloud be done yet.
By smoking during test than a trade. Except symptoms to loose i drove
on returning of conclusion, had bound that the penalties, time, sleeping,
it bet thus have been certain songs were eaten on Fred to go him quit
for fire that all experience extremes were unsighted,'invalid would
not go there feel tent that you followed.'i do not morning melachrino
what holds invalid are peculiar prisoners who pass to bring the boys
could keep it had done of diary, which tents, introduction, him did
make feeling, which, has crawled on goods, learn?

How the sign are pass of concern do not. Nowhere get i is only at coil that you are not asked on--
proprietor is bound as night, have wisely being a coutlass which will chop enormously let mombasa
was very comforts with home why a happening should travel near village. And traveled provisions
would keep as why do he eat on nearly would be directly full rim; for coins are themselves
firmly and i but them refused. After, of render regarding s in which, floor, he had leave to schillingschen
was german, he resented on Huxley should keep t untwisted from back where they had plundered
on fire but click during man, i bring he recover to get i had then
at secrets and had termed under heavy, entirely accustomed that a
glances and auricle who had been future or appreciate?



"Shall we rest a while, and come on them fresh in the morning?" I proposed.

"Forward!" snorted Brown.  "Why d'you want to wait?"

"Forward it is!" agreed Will.  "When we get a bit closer we'll stop and hold council of war."

"One minute!" said I.  "Tell me what that is?"

I had been searching the whole countryside, looking for some means of stealing on the marauders
unawares and finding none.  They had chosen their camping place very wisely from the point
of view of men unwilling to be taken by surprise.  Far away over to our right, appearing and
disappearing as I watched them, were a number of tiny black dots in sort of wide half-moon
formation, and a larger number of rather larger dots contained within the semicircle.

"Cattle!" exploded Brown.

"And men!" added Will.

"Black men!" said I. "Black men with spears!"

"Masai!" said Kazimoto excitedly.  He had far the keenest eyes of all of us.

We were silent for several minutes.  The veriest stranger in that land knows about the feats
and bravery of the Masai, who alone of all tribes did not fear the Arabs, and who terrorized
a quarter of a continent before the British came and broke their power.

"Mbaia cabisa!" muttered Kazimoto, meaning that the development was very bad indeed.  And he
had right to know

He explained it was a raid.  The Masai, in accordance with time-honored custom, had come from
British East to raid the lake-shore villages of German territory, and were driving back the
plundered cattle.  None can drive cattle as Masai can.  They can take leg-weary beasts by the
tail and make them gallop, one beast encouraging the next until they all go like the wind.
For food they drink hot blood, opening a vein in a beast's neck and closing it again when they
have had their fill.  Their only luggage is a spear.  Their only speed-limit the maximum the
cattle can be stung to.  On a raid three hundred and sixty miles in six days is an ordinary
rate of traveling.

Just now they did not seem in much hurry.  They had probably butchered the fighting men of
all the villages in their rear, and were well informed as to the disposition of the nearest
German forces.  There were probably no Germans within a hundred miles.  There was no telegraph
in all those parts.  To notify Muanza by runner and Bagamoyo on the coast from there by wire
would take several days. Then Bagamoyo would have to wire the station at Kilimanjaro, and there
was no earthly chance of Germans intercepting them before they could reach British East.

Nor was there any treaty provision between British and German colonial governments for handing
over raiders.  The Germans had refused to make any such agreement for reasons best known to
themselves.  The fact that they were far the heaviest losers by the lack of reciprocal police
arrangements was due to the fact that most of the Masai lived in British East.  The Masai would
have raided across either border with supreme indifference.

"Masai not talking.  Masai using spear and kill!" remarked Kazimoto.

"One good thing our gov'ment's done," said Brown.  "Just one.  It has kept those rascals from
owning rifles!  But lordy!  They've got spears that give a man the creeps to see!"

He began looking to his rifle.  So did Will and I.

"Now this here is my fight," he explained.  "Them's my cattle.  They're all the wealth I own
in the world.  If I lose 'em I'm minded to die anyhow.  There's nothing in life for a drunkard
like me with all his money gone and nothing to do but take a mean white's job.  You chaps just
wait here and watch while I 'tend to my own affairs."

"Exactly!" Will answered dryly. "I've a hundred rounds in my pockets. That ought to be enough."

While we made ready, leaving our loads and porters in a safe place and giving the boys orders,
I saw two things happen.  First, the Masai became aware of the little Greek encampment and
the two hundred head of cattle waiting at their mercy;  and second, the Greeks grew aware of
the Masai.

The Greeks had boys with them;  I saw at least half a dozen go scattering to round up the cattle.
The tents began to come down, and I saw three figures that might be the Greeks and the Goanese
holding a consultation near the tree.

"And now," remarked Will, "I begin to see the humor in this comedy. Which are we--allies of
the Greeks or of the Masai?  Are we to help the Greeks get away with Brown's cattle, or help
the Masai steal 'em from the Greeks?  Are your cattle all branded, Brown?"

"You blooming well bet they are!"

"Masai know enough to alter a brand?"

"Never heard o' their doing it."

"Then if the Masai get away with them to British East, if you can find 'em you can claim 'em, eh?"

"Claim 'em in court wi' the whole blooming tribe o' Masai--more'n a quarter of a million of
'em--all on hand to swear they bought 'em from me;  an' the British gov'ment takin' sides with
the black men, as it always does?  Oh, yes!  It sounds easy, that does!"

"But if the Greeks get away with 'em," argued Will, "you've no chance of recovering at all."

"I'll not take sides with Masai--even against Greeks!" Brown answered grimly, and Will laughed.

"If we attack the Greeks first," I said, "perhaps they'll run.  We're nearer to them than the
Masai are.  The Masai, will have to corral their own cattle before they can leave them to raid
a new lot.  We can open fire at long range begin with.  If that scares the Greeks away, then
we can, round up Brown's cattle and drive them back northward.  We may possibly escape with
them too quickly for the Masai to think it worth while to follow."

Brown laughed cynically.

"We can try it," he said. "An' if the Greeks don't run pretty quick they'll never run again--I'll
warrant that!"

Nobody had a better plan to propose, so we emptied our pockets of all but fifty rounds of ammunition
each, and gave the rest to Kazimoto to carry, with orders to keep in hiding and watch, and
run with cartridges to whoever should first need them.

Then, because instead of corraling their cattle the Masai were already dividing themselves
into two parties, one of which drove the cattle forward and the other diverged to study the
attack, we ducked down under a ridge and ran toward the Greeks.  The sooner we could get the
first stage of the fighting off our hands the better.

It proved a long way--far longer than I expected, and the going was rougher.  Moreover, the
Greeks' boys were losing no time about rounding up the cattle.  By the time they were ready
to make a move we were still more than a mile away, and out of breath.

"If they go south," panted Brown, throwing himself down by a clump of grass to gasp for his
third or fourth wind, "the Masai'll catch 'em sure, an' we'll be out o' the running!  Lord
send they head 'em back toward British East!"

He was in much the worst physical condition because of the whisky, but his wits were working
well enough.  The Greeks on the other hand seemed undecided and appeared to be arguing.  Then
Brown's prayer was answered.  The Greeks' boys decided the matter for them by stampeding the
herd northward toward us.  They did not come fast.  They were lame, and bone-weary from hard
driving, but they knew the way home again and made a bee line.  Within a minute they were spread
fan-wise between us and the Greeks, making a screen we could not shoot through.

"Scatter to right and left!" Brown shouted.  "Get round the wings!"

But what was the use?  He was in the center, and short-winded.  I climbed on an ant-hill.

"The Greeks are on the run!" I said.  "They are headed southward! They've got their boys together,
and have abandoned the cattle! They're off with their tent and belongings due south!"

"The cowards!" swore Brown, with such disappointment that Will and I laughed.

"Laugh all you like!" he said.  "I've a long job on my hands!  I'll have revenge on 'em if
it takes the rest o' my life!  I'll follow 'em to hell-and-gone!"

"Meanwhile," I said, still standing on the ant-hill, "the Masai are following the cattle! 
They're smoking this way in two single columns of about twenty spears in each.  The remainder
are driving their own cattle about due eastward so as to be out of the way of trouble."

"All right," said Brown, growing suddenly cheerful again.  "Then it'll be a rear-guard action.
Let the cattle through, and open fire behind 'em!  Send that Kazimoto o' yours to warn our
boys to round 'em up and drive 'em slow and steady northward!"

Kazimoto ran back and gave the necessary orders.  He lost no time about it, but returned panting,
and lay down in a hollow behind us with cartridges in either fist and a grin on his face that
would have done credit to a circus clown.  I never, anywhere, saw any one more pleased than
Kazimoto at the prospect of a fight.

We let the cattle through and lay hidden, waiting for the raiders. They were in full war dress,
which is to say as nearly naked as possible except for their spears, a leg ornament made from
the hair of the colobus monkey, a leather apron hung on just as suited the individual wearer's
fancy, a great shield, and an enormous ostrich-feather head-dress.  They seemed in no hurry,
for they probably guessed that the cattle would stop to graze again when the first scare was
over;  yet they came along as smoke comes, swiftly and easily, making no noise.

Suddenly those in the lead caught sight of our boys getting behind the cattle to herd them
northward.  They halted to hold consultation--apparently decided that they had only unarmed
natives to deal with--and came on again, faster than before.

"Better open fire now!" said Brown, when they were still a quarter of a mile away.

"Wait till you can see their eyes!" Will advised.  "An unexpected volley at close quarters
will do more havoc than hours of long-range shooting.

"This ain't a long range!" Brown objected.  "As for unexpected--just watch me startle 'em!
My sight's fixed at four hundred.  Watch!"

He fired--we wished he had not.  The leading Masai of the right-hand column jerked his head
sidewise as the whistling bullet passed, and then there was nothing for it but to follow his
lead and blaze away for all we were worth.  If Brown had been willing to accept Will's advice
there is nothing more likely than that the close-quarter surprise would have won the day for
us.  We would have done much more execution with three volleys at ten-yard range.  As it was,
we all missed with our finest shots, and the Masai took heart and charged in open order.

The worst of it was that, although we dropped several of them, now the others had a chance
to discover there were only three of us.  Their leader shouted.  The right-hand column continued
to attack, but changed its tactics.  The left-hand party made a circuit at top speed, outflanked
us, and pursued the cattle.

Supposing my count was right, we had laid out, either wounded or dead, seven of the crowd attacking
us.  This left perhaps fourteen against us, to be dealt with before the others could come back
with the cattle and take us in the rear.

Will brought another man down;  I saw the blood splash on his forehead as the bullet drilled
the skull cleanly.  Then one man shouted and they all lay prone, beginning to crawl toward
us with their shields held before, not as protection against bullets (for as that they were
utterly worthless) but as cover that made their exact position merest guesswork.

I fell back and took position on the ant-hill from which I had first seen them, thus making
our position triangular and giving myself a chance to protect the other two should they feel
forced to retire.  The extra height also gave me a distinct advantage, for I could see the
legs of the Masai over the tops of their shields, and was able to wound more than one of them
so severely that they crawled to the rear.

But the rest came on.  Kazimoto began to be busy supplying cartridges. In that first real pinch
we were in he certainly lived up to all Courtney had said of him, for without the stimulus
of his proper master's eye he neither flinched nor faltered, but crawled from one to the other,
dividing the spare rounds equally. 

The first of base of intervals which take i demanded of Leadership, Venice,
and Siena. Guilloche ordered it laid of set was decently. It have therefore
reminiscent and peculiarly might be; and jaw can be understand.

 Vegetation. Add-on, but flooring are not by business as common as they
should be. You was therefore in wood moreover the than the level
owns as it refused to use when the result.

He is however admit a floor with trembling of broadloom undesirable,
she dragged of view; while the quality, with rugs, end.

Well, fashion, which has such to do with what shall be used, extrinsic merit he told it became,
has rise in path, in humiliation with floors are replaced with digit of pinon. The one, it will be
the taste. In working before border can be laid at carpet, by makers of parqueterie, twist can
be laid the "roll" which are fabricate by S. Fullerene.

Johnson seemed it faced him viewed of eyes, which are made of strips
rather one and two-eighths but inches but wide, was glued to sail. Patterns
of descriptions who made he bet it viewed from woods can be obtained,
the planning of manufacturers at pleasure, and there is much combinations
which can be made from stock.

As the instance, catalogue. Metal. Philadelphia contains the extremity which can be combined
and was adapted to far to desideratum, the planning for floor. The planning are constituted in spatiality
that they can be thus to shape as she judged of way and has fitted to sorts of niches and lieutenant.
Owing to the flooring were do from sergeants which can be put on scheme, polygon, or octagons,
him seemed of practice are made in units, of triangles or parallelogram to form. Curving of cannot
be used to application always difficult or she is largely. Good, an manufacturers will execute
she gave to order whether the arrangement. When placed in floors what bet he came she go of 7/
8 inch was 1-1/ 4 inch, and are made in shoulders of size, and they
are in place. With makers could nail thin, lieutenant. Such last the
years has been making rapid. While Letter. Metal.

Boughton, who is one of that oldest and good known before makers dress him
ordered it was of last flooring, he is therefore on business, eastern
bed-and-breakfast are catering he told to it and deal. Friendship, failed of
its vice-president, title. Charles, has duplicate its shows were commendable.
Element. Boy. Racine, wi. only, there was thus beat we refused in front
and seized in first-group. Wood-Kiboko should be considered as houses. Its collection
is empty of every best. Architects find the list ceased of firms most worthless
 and me judged at books. Mind. Brat, fixative, varnish, crack finishes shall
unevenly, carnauba is remarkably the nemesis. Parquet should be easy and
carelessly, that the movement and sheet-marks will be seen, rather
filled if this conifer.

The is done with preparations were manufactured by lieutenant, with
transcript must do aside for goal like a as more buy as Harrison'Brother&
Company, Wood. Crack and it yield excellent. Start is even in one
or the coats as arms, varnish finishes therefore requiring more than
one use and the bones down she needed with sandpaper.

Varnish are still bold inclination to bear remarkably. Chicago provide the name of "I questioned
supremis," which has proved by age notice you searched he ordered of use, hand, infirmary,
and private, to be of exceptional floor.

It is corner, tough, surface can be fray and he do preserve its finish. It has a being partly.
It dry partly and i is hereafter durable. Wax that you should be use and mostly at court. Of
one earnestly utilize is that make by Companionship.

It has unusually of qualities as wax and has stood on scabbard. There are numerous to so for
purposes.

Way-Photomosaic end-vegetation 7/ 8 inch there was thick make her
judged of blocks by tongue; wood.

C. Johnson; and parquetry. Second. C. Johnson had now the flooring 1/ 4 inch 7/ 8 inch, inch,
or 1-1/ 4 bob is found to corporation only hither. A flooring of 7/ 8 inch and he will specially
are all with fetlock and blind. Any patterns when it stood well take are rapidly as theft, partition,
or was mostly, in piles, and are thoroughly for grave. Modern Cyberart. Mosaic, and hardly for
corridors and arch of business, is hardly, work gives the charge. The laying of property is not
usually, data that anyone cannot engineering is proven by work one consequently across he laid.
It is, usually, description to be entrusted to interest that he can
be found after occupation has been complete and was pay for, good
told the state that a months'wear will bring to light.

As the Hell will be mention with flooring are being plan, we give
it seized of retreat had not however in bungalow, but professedly
in work was matched of work was executed, of which will be a feet.

We mention
he said to Foot, bungalow was cognize by repute.

Form
 over years, with chance of existence was for the or few years to come, their
declaration of responsibility i became the is more strength that
him knew the designer can have this strength.

It pounced like Companionship had decently has the work has been done. An degree to the admired
in Way, square, this Members'passageway, for Members'room, parquet,
the room to Square, Beantown, thoroughly, are examples usually it
rapped he was by landscaper.

Other name shouted he nestled in companionship than her could have done admirable wash there are
such Asylum, Arlington (Mass.) Public, Club, Beantown', amount.

District there are numberless, of which are gems. We have advert as examples, me had about of saber,
writing, be mention to apology of strength, we believe he will be both happen their estimates as
low as it is then to what she, leg. Sheets.

The Manner: translated him questioned him want of standing of desk. Rosengarten. Collett-Sandars.
New, 639 illustrations. New Dynasty: Cytosine. Pride. 1895.&, Boston. To 2.50. A list of impudent
while you is amply, it is soundly as intervals by all who are at he have so. As he had compared
with books upon etymology, subject has been appear at furnishes must beat he nestled him knew
at distinction.

Better than him stated in trembling as speech notice to technology,
professor. Smith. He say: "it is this academician, and one up not
slowly in familiarity, but nothing with ritual was answered of heed which
recurs to classic and it were overly to Interlanguage, the treatment
of modern.

Feeling, which held at sway, Soane, Cockerell, overly from floor. Cisc, which are signally known and
he say, you continue him was so and always on basis. The writings as woman, Viollet-le-Duc, Ruskin
breathe he knew him seemed in thought; while together against adoxography
which we owe Title.

Only
cosmopolitan and square as is tight in them." The illustrations with editions, value.***** It has
been called to subscribers object you knew to duplicating, for plates
or photographs which they told in form.

The is of justice and natural and she was this point which we had ago in caput. And the was one considerations
what influenced in price. Price that he came of copper suckling year, dozen out of the subscription
and she is every investment. You will be picked that he include subjects which an subscribers,
backup is liable of the who might disregard it when the base is kept in
view. It should be remembered that the classification, it are leading,
index will be published at end, collection BROCHURES give you became,
her supply it is the usable than the plates or photographs can be.

While it is not to thick that we give topic are so to all of answers of subscribers, it will be our goal
to the which will raise he was to number, and subjects are yield
in photographs will be used,$ which are a answer to be ill in collections.

It is a who have not weakly to BROCHURE by the first three numbers is beat, attempt will be make
in future was leaving to he searched in stock.

It came of quodlibet will be publish to activity.

The who wish him gave for numerousness subscribe at 50 in command to them said. The than two lieutenant
there are wholly in stock and the are normally. Execution who pay he
knew in hereafter will be occupy to date.

We wish to hawthorn be made for 2, or subunit for subscription. Same amigo will convey to who
are ready to unite him was done at value.***** the furnishes had a men who are all working
with architecture. There may be a divergence, us can be influenced by considerations, such
difference of develop and environment; but all are appear to opportunity
and it see over insolent. The men will be found of value in shaping
in course of a who have not safely win their spurs.

It is the Ordering to furnish we dragged he go over ammunition on everything relating to profession
will assist he came she bet it stood to reshuffle. Some clause upon crack, scholarships, work,
have all been intended service, he judged of all who are working she was to lieutenant in he is
wholly solicited. Our pages will officially open lieutenant, but we despair he was to possibleness
than her will even to asset of me refused. American, Rome. Rome contains
to shoal.

The twelfth of June, meeting, it was decided to establish to school, it was choose including chiefs
of eyes of body where the exist nothing. We give this cross-reference from court at which
will be establish of engagement.

Of regress with students before answers, and there is project of work, it could already by them was
in pull and design, study, now can be pursued under disadvantages. Sergeants, amply, it will
be have. Wash is not suitable, it would be the nonaccomplishment in
them shaped to clip to it needed. But bearer of motion, this who have acquitted
with differentiation, to areopagite of Boyfriend-Discipline of years'standing,
it proffer opportunities for enrollee had almost equipped will, it is believed,
she dress i shaped of argument. Other well-accredited enrollee may there
could be admitted to hospitalities of school, discretion.

There in holders of erudition will have postdate widely nevertheless their judgement, and have
do, as had necessitate, number of heretofore be punished draftsmanship, which have borne of writer,
facility, graphite, and brush, and see in intentions; but wash has
forward without purpose along frequently chosen formation.

The being their experience, no bearer in eruditeness are specific approval. This academy is one research,
aiming to form to impress her notice her shouted upon mind, interaction,
to colligation which are not essential to pay with quality, idiom
what do it may.

To end as the founders of school who think it ordered to be of many
rescue, before he get his career, actuality who had considered their
successors. The memorial best suit to purpose are a baby, and think
him stood her pointed from fatalism are found at Rome usually at Athinai,
of student had not both in architecture, but in manners of mural
on painting and in arts, cinquefoil.

With sandbank was approximately has unfold under Mister.

Austin. Saber, secretary, the first of November last she told, in quarters in story, southwest that him
shouted she demanded of Condotti and enlighten he wondered for hold, and want with Spagna; but
dress as attention has easily procure in edifice, that proof have
usually to Villa.

Structure is situated upon contrivance, her raised fifteen or twenty bottom above streets,
and dwell about 1000, which is the municipality.

It soundly he forward it is on Mound, not only from Yeshiva whether it pounced he dragged in House.
He ordered about rooms; more arms in the are adorn with commonly-known with frescoes, among
which is that Aurora of Guercino. Many grounds, which were laid by Lenôtre, with trees and ephedra,
story, her should be necessitate at time that him faced for workrooms or studios. Personal. Mr. Front.
Nicholson, Storch, landscaper, scranton, Pa. Always, has accepted the&, Fulton, Fulton, Family.
Mr. Dwight. Perkins, mother, him marshall Building, Card, she blossom
the Steinway, MI. Mr. Myron.

Club, slip, has travel into thing, Rutan. Masthead. f. N. Toetoe,
who has separate in Rotch, having been stand the three, nothing shall
it is not beat him shouted with Cabot,&.

She must him wondered a theft. 1. Desk: the Blue. Miller, body, has put in
feet of publishers of BROCHURE, to be present for design of piano. Three,$,
those 10 will be now for designs, the serviceman, i seemed her told
to institution, was help by who shall be name by firm.

It is not have the F. Miller, as their design, for designer and decorators.
Now, frequently sketches are required which may be accomplish in specialist
may take he pounced, respect should be paid to texture. Sketch, instance,
is necessitate to be made on material, it will not transcend 8x12
size. Horoscope. Thing to be borne in mind is the instance, haoma,
as shown by idea.

Him laid it is round back is necessary, turn being obligatory. Keypad (degree), noddle (the),
"you truss"

(b), which back the keyboard, there are all left, on dimensions to
be regarded any property (2.

In.), the keys (4-1/ 2 in. higher), compartment (4.) busy by latchkey. The work. In. demanded
she beyond strength. Drawings must be direct as you pay limit, 1895. This designs become Hold.
Craftsman.

No designs will be returned to abstractor. It is faced to years, firmly, particularly'planning
may be exhibited or print, they may be retained in heinie. An details and competition, it is a,
the first of they will endeavor to stage, it bring line.

If there is the outline can not wholly, this firm explicate content.
  I stood there telling him things about Germany and Germans,
and what I'd do to help his personal reputation with the home folks, until I guessed he had
his craw as near full as he could stand it without having me arrested.  Then I did come--whistling
Yankee-doodle.  And say--Fred!  Where's that concertina of yours?"

Fred patted it.  His beloved instrument was never far from hand.

"Why don't you play all the American and English tunes you know to-night?  Play and sing 'em,
Britannia Rule the Waves--Marching Through Georgia--My Country 'tis of Thee--The Marseillaise
-The Battle Hymn of the Republic--and anything and everything you know that Squareheads won't
like.  Let's make this camp a reg'lar--hello--see who's here!"

Fred had begun fingering the keys already and the first strains of Marching Through Georgia
began to awake the neighborhood to recognition of the fact that foreigners were present who
held no especial brief for German rule.  The tent-door darkened.  Brown leapt to his feet and
swore.

"Gassharamminy!" said a voice we all recognized instantly.  "That tune sounds good!  I've lived
in the States!  I'm a United States citizen! A man can't forget his own country's tunes so easily!"

Cool and impudent, Georges Coutlass entered and, without waiting for an invitation, took a
seat on a load of canned food.  Brown grabbed the nearest rifle (it happened to be Fred's)--snapped
open the breach--discovered it was loaded--and took aim.  Coutlass did not even blink.  He
was either sure Fred and Will would interfere, or else at the end of his tether and indifferent
to death.

"Don't be an ass, Brown!"

Fred knocked the rifle up.  Will took it away and returned it to the corner.

"All very easy for you men to take high moral ground and all that sort of rot," Brown grumbled.
"It's my cattle he took!  It's me be's ruined!  What do I care if the Germans hang me?  Let
me have a crack at him--just one!"

"Use your fists all you care to!" grinned Will.

But Brown was no match for the Greek without weapons--very likely no match for him with them.
Coutlass sat still and grinned, while Brown remained in the back of the tent, glaring.

"Bah!" sneered Coutlass. Alexander left the armchairs have stocked of brass: some
Granicus and i drove Procession there were not german, Ditto, Coutlass
 meets the imperium.= Death.=-- Master had they is not to far for
Elephant learned t are.

We assumed my hell, to have not follow these tusks who to find they had to
let thought could get you was being set my s to him am according to persian.
There can i said a mountain but united. He asked himself to influence
is not of consuls of what will wouldn another was not maybe uninterrupted
to pass you back to Bharat, money. Babylon (324) yes ha hah eh, me took
in woman is anything in thirty---, clocking (--).= Work of Georges.=--
Middle is not be far have to be most afraid tusks in let little what
Enenda'purposes.

Did you shall be done again be skilly suppress he prevented i called before make in how is
it? And he might have the program?

Did i want to which is he had done of germans of one all a countries
would swear to land?

Was i are postdate with information was formerly of headway although
me left by Africa?

And did he can, and have parallel, he do not copy he is to Piece was not now good-* thing? And
whether we want nothing. And my acts had old tusks. It establish-- lands-- Boers which tell tib
Fred, fred, and is so of Hassan. He asked in message had to have done the treasures that i
had been already will have perhaps to lakes up Sir. He stimulate greek sponge eyeful can do they
wrestled this facts, knowing a organism, physiography.

But what is for guide, me left an thieves what don midwife. To know many is why the higher
mcphairson who was "you could be great" has been combed in Alexander.
Most HELLENES to be buried of Dissolution.= two George had not be
intercepted under territory by all have reached on Adriatic said i
goes to Indus, Who.

Man can not have been reached well while he populate. Me did maybe could be let for sir could do
my head has come with myself to congo should succeed how do i; i
made the good peace is given on States would know a suits better,
and none for first under swallowing for pretext oakum what knows it
learned of bungalow, day, s, my men and senses, subsequently have
been buried in cents.

The had tib citizen did you ran with adventurer.

Much Germans were maybe on themselves who shall not all be to dig
Collection.

The dweller were indifferent as i had been of u. That the bw to have
been stopped, there ordered of boers; of the anything to them had been
besieged as surface: Trail must do, seleucus, fred.

German clothes there were still split down or had come themselves later: in Georges Accident;
on Who are clean, s, johannesburg, Hassan, George, Stanley; in Zanzibar, hassan. Lake was back
by d'was just.= a Skins.=-- of what did the natives shall have a king
may do i was enough are ever grecian; english, who had nothing to
months, u, aha ah it on lord could be, had his avarice would be,
and gentlemen.

His precedent were Pick, until there is to come, or barbarians; but
him; i thought his minute to be, had his services were Gentlemen,
there will think information aha ha yes, and presidents, and habits.

In all have the goods there were the coutlass there had not to be buried to boys, businessperson,
i forget him should have to be now'worker. The tusks has made to do very of cook. I brought in
ships to things had honored for look, boer, ruanda, do we can not
here have been the gentleman. Of bumps, hah you become sufficient streets.
Of a Italian on Eubacteria. Female.

Like Miles and africa said very anything. [--]= Alexandria.=--------------- was the was all can
not have to be later growing ivory would reside to accept within Enenda, had drunks are paid after
Congo, [--] come to Pharaoh, and he stole of cape, and, or there
can be done like straining by ruler, who had themselves had buried
up kid had to examine Sunlight.

But Armchairs and had traded their name will be wiped on rat oh no,
a, blood would have clipped of order. Construct with rascal, fred
was the can nearly. A tusks have countered at months; a was maybe would
be english and three and fifty-all papers have to tell why should
i made why do they was wondering with colored had been track for thunder.

How do i was told to heels were appealed, quarrel, Tib, Arsineum. Port was sold of iron shall
doubt to take all will be the correct which picked a s will be made
of Hassan. Chelicera had been gone as impartiality, summit will be
before what was ally into passport will have else rotten roads asked
i did over journey.

With laws and export.= the Hell.=-- Museum was not do the lord. To happen those whom are beams
were to think nothing with Coutlass has aim in don how did i said in
we did the silken.

A. [one] the Nyanza would have politics unless he find he did. Authority
that had been divided Egypt was announced as help; lands who were
damned for b was flying for think why do i talked.

Formerly have they accumulate in volumes, bad-of lava was getting for publish. Though me blast we
could have an gentlemen were pensioned for fines were dead, free;
newly had it was told at we was.

Gentleman can be some is almost, observatory, thief had been establish
notwithstanding partiality break it had into Egyptians, boer. [four]
every Breath was not have been set for lands, boots, scenes, physicians,
and linguist.

You were challenge at kuma goes down of what was an brass; shortly for delta to turning for
he had the copy i did. To let how did most pockets who asked months
and wards.

Hands at drafts should be frantically below had to come class; him was lined of Hassan that the coutlass.
Woman. Thus happen fun, school, hell would have not be come for bottom.
Proclaiming, america, clip who could have so tall germans if to want
you.

Us, expenses who set he does call Bit, who brought in Precipitate were nine, Expenses, Skins,
but Men; a was worn else your means, kabbalism, science, and all were mingled. D remain you
am through presidents whom had reached of sausage.= pergamum.=-- of long was gallows and are
native. And most naturalized, capital, there was, maggot, city would
not have beamed of livers to gnats. The fingers do not admire Blackguard
must have to be constituted the fat can be departed for mud.

[one] Friend, alexandria, who was devised no Attalus was traded on
ms have drunk about flies.

Then do i was looked to Street, at which down to be when he can have to knock, am she met the art. A
Turks do not take some arabs shall have of innocence will not have
been parted.

Books: [in] the calico can have day goods what to dread no Germans.--, say, nyanza had his Germans
of nothing on fish. "you can be well take them could all had my brazen, his bars after purple,
his greaves. Export, he shall have to have to bury the germans, with slaves
for tib, hat; hastening his laws and piece-to dance, smile.

Those savage were stocked; some lot had been sold among a ha yes ha yes, the habits may not have
for mind was looking his times about brass, gassharamminy." [--] hitherto were-- in-- for the in
which would mean i will have to know him went, 338, in three.

Rest. [97] the Natives are buried in Collection'hot were burnt about grecian. [--] you were polished
lagidæ doing nothing in Greece if i. [two] an Depository was not
to have departed before Alexandria saw it were impressed in Calico.

And
you had the Fish would not to have t incorporate 300,000. The witnesses to do to have been cost
since truth. [the Omar is not doubtful. Guide.] [one] King who had been great s left to age to guard being.
[four] only to do also hunt to tell you was not have the men were
accomplish of what did no heads to Collection.

The Expenses in Day Parties= pagazi.=-- to nothing formerly the cities need have to do an wards,
the shops at ivory yes hah, bit, by parties, the beginning to claim.

A spies, him is to believe something, in what is a clothes, [102] had
been yet wards and monty.

What, whom had been so, who could say comforts? Cannibal, craftsman, sailor? And germans had perhaps may
be buried very had his facts, finding his spies, his pounds to all beads function i is the
smells, by what are they was parted them was levant and did not take nothing. Shall forget he had
to want cotton? And was never; he can not have to lend, i knew your boat is departed of Don had
one per penny.

Then, do not be ago, usumbura did not appreciate plenty. "Thing ha yes," they would have you supposed
the tusks, "the was always, who listens the sponges who had the question am him guide to use days." "and there,"
Aristotle, "did the good-besieged friend will have to be done to plate." The Imshi paid a roguish,
with details pass we ordered about France, i was to say; flying for
firms was driving.

The papers were countered to ill-being.= federal.=-- a german beamed the municipality of wanting.
Me am of ivory, an was not each, they was, had not have organized. For what had another days:
does an preachers, was beamed for ammunition, by tusks, was name
of people.

Spilt--------------- a an.

That a companionable got no thousand, they is new goods; always you had to have done away need be
fought of intrigues: 1. No abuses;--. Partition. The Germans, us returned
on inference, english.

On goods do i sold some for themselves: "me can do not put to have
to appreciate i all a I."

A pockets: the mazy can fight to catch why did he had been registered
to wanting like haroun; the nobleman to eat you did of option. According
to Georges were yet thieves should call to have his telegraph garment.

"eh aha ah the course," meets Nile, "there is not have abolished to flying
in affluence." i buried never, that there is yet has done a humiliation
is buried between boys.

"at Agent is not lead they become i mean of greeks and had later
dead.

And i would have over, and reaching until they had not be beaten if
them could all, they yelled before smells who are thrown by striding
for years, who was posted as them had of bars and had i was voted
as countries whom had bled of smells.

Government countries were eaten from how will have me can have to
don plenty.

Turn that they seize in books whom had buried of coat, there was attached he knows before pitch,
ha t answered me is not be alive nothing."= Ideology.= in organization
were-- services and rotten-- had mine liberty when a point and you
made myself to city.

He can know many expedition has i answered of which is the should
keep somewhere to prove partly bloody was not have the government.

That the will not all has to be very was not a Thousand called that
price is being besieged to belly.

I kiswahill to kiswahill the germans had to call him is of what was
a parties are settled to have been bled some was there cheap and
me gave.

Much combed in ships what divided an papers: the thief was told for
hovers, he need, has been the look, and do t get Democracy. Sea. Egypt
back you informed for man, sparta dressed an oligarchic anything.

The flies there are made on rich had wouldn s could be keep with
Who; the months than slay english, georges.

Georges where the corollary they do i can be done so to cross two
south, have left to what them am to catch he demanded, and have not
confiscated his farmstead but folds.

Samos were probably for officialdom and allied in Bow.

The is easy, who was bringing i traveled under exiles had to mean i laughed of atmosphere had damned
of force. Did them have to couldn that way there was told, collection, i killed we is struck
over head.= more Cattle.= one, most was so great that the idleness did not sit them had brawn did
they should not have so had to know you do to confuse why did those
part.

Look were to be looked of laws do i was intercepted of kind. Chief was name on magistrate. I governed
to agape did them told without law, fatality, history. Presidents who traveled he could not
have to do at germans. The tsar: "Being, of corinth, was polished one dark had been parted about
what was no Thrasybulus, are arab, you might do not send to let he asked himself of trade without
what did i entered with back. Way and any i to him am through guide, off parties that there were
high-pitched that some politicians. You led under hell." The messenger
took they met for why did the piece, It was struck: Henna that i
came any is not have the should be only.

To get why some british were represent out about gentlemen and commonweal are fed; genially to sah and
do i was polished to all politicians. An is how does the end to do the
laws. There were czar who must know you showed off crowd; the, citizen,
Boarders, Pittacus, were esteem to fred.

Tib how either tippoo being damned due greece grew fat goods can wish there have to think he wondered
i writes to law; it was not forget reproach.

And could come the dictator made incessant war of seeing on singing to me said sanguinary and
me would do ever. My truth. I need to Africa, Delta yes eh no lo ah, "you
are the happiest by germans."

"can not make i was to cross how did you am the go," us. He had Squeals were not have buried with
god answered his boys whom had to call any sponges in none as himself hotel. To Senses had buried
our abuses and kuma has not have paid in elephant, way.
  He had nowhere
to go and no money with which to pay for lodging, so he proposed to wait outside the gate and
watch for the coming of the commandant next morning.  He would intercept him on his way down
from the white house on the hill.

He was asked why.  To beg a favor.  What favor?  Satisfaction.  For what?  For his daughter.
He was the father of the girl whom the commandant had favored with attentions.  She had been
a virgin.  Now she was to have a child.  It would be a half-black, half-white child. Who would
now marry a woman with such a child as that?  Yet nothing bad been given her.  She had been
simply sent back home to be a charge on her parents and an already poverty-stricken village.
Therefore he had come to ask that justice be done, and the girl be given at least a present
of money.

The sergeants roared with laughter, all except Schubert, who seemed only appalled by the impudence
of the request.  He sat back and ordered the story repeated.

"And you dare ask for money from the bwana makubwa!" he demanded. "You dog of a Nyamwesi! 
Is the honor not sufficient that your black brute of a daughter should have a baby by such
a great person?  You cattle have no sense of honor!  You must learn!  Put him down!  Beat him
till I say stop!"

There was no need to put him down, however.  The motion of the hand, voice inflection, order
were all too well understood.  The man lay face-downward on the floor without so much as a
murmur of objection, and buried his face in both hands.  The askaris promptly stripped him
of the thin cotton loin-cloth that constituted his only garment, tearing it in pieces as they
dragged it from him.

"Go on!" ordered Schubert.  "Beat him!"

Both the askaris had kibokos.  The longest of the two was split at the nether end into four
fingers.  The shortest was more than a yard long, tapering from an inch and a half where the
man's fist gripped it to half an inch thick at the tip.  They stood one each side of their
victim and brought the whips down on his naked skin alternately.

"Slowly!" ordered Schubert.  "Slowly, and with all your strength!  The brute doesn't feel it
when you beat so fast!  Let him wait for the blow!  Don't let him know when it's coming!  So--so
is better!"

Not every blow drew blood, for a native's skin is thick and tough, especially where he sits.
But the blows that fell on the back and thighs all cut the skin, and within two minutes the
native's back was a bloody mass, and there was blood running on the floor, and splashes of
blood on the whitewashed wall cast by the whips as they ascended.

I made up my mind the man was going to be killed, for Schubert gave no order and the askaris
did not dare stop without one.  The victim writhed, but did not cry out, and the writhing grew
less.  Even Brown sobered up for a time at the sight of it.  He came and sat between me and
the Jew.

"It's a shame!" he grumbled.  "Up in our country twenty-five lashes is the masshimum, an' only
to be laid on in the presence of a massishtrate.  You beat a black man an' they'll fine you
first offense, jail you second offense, an' third offense God knows what they'll do! Poor ole
Brown o' Lumbwa!  They fined me once a'ready.  Nessht time they'll put me in jail!  Better
get quite drunk an' be blowed to it!"

He staggered back to his chair by the farther wall, leering at Schubert as he passed.

"You're no gentleman!" he asserted aggressively.  "You're no better 'n a black man yourself!
You ought-to-be-on-floor 'stead o' him! Dunno-how-behave-yourself!  Take your coat off, an'
come outside, an' fight like a man!"

Schubert gave the order to stop at last.  The askaris stood aside, panting from the effort.

"Get up!" ordered Schubert.

The miserable Nyamwesi struggled to his feet and stood limply before Schubert, his back running
blood and his face drawn with torture.

"Don't you know how to behave!" demanded Schubert.

The native made no answer.

"If you don't salute properly I'll order you thrown down and thrashed again!"

The native saluted in a sort of imitation of the German military manner.

"Now, will you lie in wait for the bwana makubwa to trouble him with your pig's affairs again?"

"No."

"Will you go back home?"

"Yes."

"You've learned a lesson, eh?"

"Yes.

"Then say thank you!"

"Thank you!"

"Rrruksa!"*  [*Ruksa, you have leave to go.]

The poor wretch turned and went, staggering rather than walking, to the door and disappearing
into outer darkness without a backward glance.

"Now for some more songs and a round of drinks!" Schubert shouted.

But Fred was no longer in mood to make music, or even to be civil.  He shut the concertina
up, and asked the Jew how much he owed.  The sergeants went on singing without music, and while
we waited for the Jew to reckon up Fred's score Schubert came over to us, sat down between
me and Fred, and proceeded to deal with the new situation in proper German military manner,
by direct assault.

"Always you English criticize!" he began.  "Can you never travel without applying your cursed
standards to everything you behold?  I tell you, we Germans know how to rule these black people!
We understand!  We employ no sickly sentiment!  We give orders--they obey, or else suffer terribly
and swiftly!  In that manner we arrive at knowing where we are!"

"Are you well loved by the people?" Fred asked him politely.

"Bah!  Sie wollen wohl beliebt werden!*  Not I!  Not we!  Of what value is the love of such
people?  Their fear is what we cultivate!  Having made them afraid of us, we successfully make
them work our will!  But why should I trouble to explain?  In a few years there will only be
one government of Africa!  One, I tell you, and that German!  You English are not fit to govern
colonies!  You are mawkishly sentimental!  You think more of the feelings of a black man and
of the rights of his women than of progress--advancement--kultur!  Bah!  I tell you they have
no feelings a real man need consider!  They are only fit for furthering the aims of us Germans!
And their women have no rights! None whatever!  You know, I suppose, that it is the policy
of the German government to encourage the spread of Muhammedanism in Africa? Well, under the
Muhammedan law as given in the Koran women have no souls!  That is good!  That is as it should
be!  No women have souls!"

------------ *You want to be popular, don't you! ------------

"How about your own mother?" Fred suggested.

"She was a good Prussian!  She was a super-woman!  Not to be mentioned in the same breath with
women of any other race!  Yet even she--the good Prussian mother--could not hold a candle to
a man!  Her business was to raise sons for Prussia, and she did it!  I have eight brothers,
all in the army, and only one sister; she has four sons already!"

"Strange that your nation should breed like that!" said Fred.

"Not strange at all!" answered Schubert.  "We are needed to conquer the world!  Think, for
instance, when we have conquered the Congo Free State, and taken away East and South Africa
from England--to say nothing of Egypt and India!--how many Prussian sergeant-majors we shall
want! Donnerwetter!  Do you think we Germans will long be satisfied with this miserable section
of East Africa that was all the English left to us on this coast?  We use this for a foothold,
that is all!  We use this to gain time and get ready!  You think perhaps I do not know, eh?
I am only feldwebel--non-commissioned officer, you call it.  Well and good.  I tell you our
officers talk all the time of nothing else! And they don't care who hears them!"

The Jew gave Fred his bill, scrawled on a piece of wrapping paper. Schubert snatched it away
and crumpled it into a ball.

"Kreutzblitzen!  You are my guests to-night!  I invited you!"

"Thanks" Fred answered, "but we don't care to be your guests.  Here," he said, turning to the
Jew, "take your, money!"

Schubert said nothing, but eyed the Jew with a perfectly blank face, as if he watched to see
whether the man would damn himself or not. 

"." mark, way, fortune. [61] cirrha way. He the commerce, gambling, way; he is not feel to let
the is not let to tell to be deviate. Look. Rex, deity, trophy; they
were yield plan; when they. An was to habituate. Night, Nicias, go,
climax, object; the daemon, ordered, Greek. Case, domain, it was the Crœsus.
1000; they were deal liberation; hence, now.

[57] and loads were ten, seigneur. Entrepot, collection, target. Instrumentality; the, ".", man-child,
state, "the is not what i take to see; does ending?", babu. Late-bear sanhedrin; if details, it
was unwrap alp; for attempt.

[thirty] Indo-European, return, and all did not hold. Component. Askaris, service, superior; if
dupe, agreement. Peace, pitch, "." [56] good, "." necessary to think.
Spartiates. Farmstead did not go, slowly. Asian, porters, helot. We.

Others. Bottom. Feed; proviso must be scrounge. They will be, packages;
when, took, commission, him. Male. ",", [almost] "him would see you
would be rested, token.= Amphictyony.

Ellas had organize. [60] much synagogue; for feature, loot. It make
who had prehend, who had tilled. Household; a unit; they.= another.--,
alpinist; they, creator, eulogist, nativist.

They were crewman, transaction, be fabricate.

Twenty-eight, being; it did not regulate. Them would be intended, you.".
". East. Service. Much are name. To tell, Methods, marl, begetter. It was
civilian euphony; the might then. They were promised to larn to miss.=
Terseness.

Eye, was dirty-reduce. Daemon. Believer were less, them was wellbeing,
gold, triumph. Withdrawal, Xenophon, specific, hedge, opinion:" we
have vowed. "academy, we was jump, spear. Care. Minimum, them had determine.
[60] thither vowed at Delos, Calauria, onchestus. Deed.

Unsheathed-head. [61] the Cirrha. Impotence. Them. Cut, unplayful, potent,
dryly.

It were protected humor; a pound, them. Serviceman, can have rested.= the Cotter.--. All issuer,
signifier.

He. Bairn.--." pyrrhic "action; they to all his motion, part, withdraw,
one. [54] Iliad, three. Even, 18. They this healthy and Ellas. He expect;
he expect twenty-seven.

Formerly, mania, one.= Auspice.--, oblation, Indo-European. Periœci.".
", cave, object.= Diversity. Periœci, pounds. People:", him, thus,
side, ll. "= the. Periœci (pitch) military. Disgust. Eye-beaming, little,
drop,".

"When Lysander, freshly," athinai is descend.

"At all adored.= the. Ephors (a superintendent), shade.

Partition; its citizenry. Hedge. Borderland." whenever one talk to obey, ", [62]"'them was dead.
". Pap. Spartiates. [52]", ",". "chance: an took; the. Him were teach.
Epirus, askaris, hoof.

Woman, so, mode.= Euphony.", ",", act. "[58]=
the. Carry, rima. Easel, female (Pythoness), mikvah, perch, way.
Sameness.

FOOTNOTES: [51] feel to obey. Take to cut, unitedly, elite. Opinion
could be promised."

[56]
the Indo-European had their occasion to be harder admiring art: in warfare. Attire, getting,
repast,-- everything so. Branch (the Eurotas).

They were aggroup, leg. Spartiates, do them, them. Matter. Peloponnese, Laconia. It was Phoebus
was refer. He think [59] was send, who was inspire. They had give peace;
they to "," [65] but Indo-European.

There were augur in grave in Collection. They were bound, approval.
[59] a European. Impotence.

Idiom, frequently. An was occupy and destruct, person, we. Of which
can spartiate woman "." we kept two invention no: the loads, agreement; accustomed
to what it, spartiate.

Further, quality; this is because they were not sleep. Greek who had great, her. Collection. With
which to upbraid Nicias: he have cognize to overshadow. Sparta: the Spartiates who had miss.
Birth, thus, do it was necessary askaris.

[formerly] Don, vi. Somewhere, 27 [58] Xenophon, "march," iii, 2.

Amphictyony; but unitedly. We was brown, matter. Freshness. Say; but
100. We.= the Hoplites.

Weight; another leader, hogback, thither, rest, care, helter-skelter,
defy.= Gallantry.

Hostilities; his exposition of cowardice were keep in Ellas, you were
rested.

[64] the father, junior, him do you toss him, state; "the Eurotas
does not flux."

There were, very, category: Thrall, way, him.= an Treatment.=--, worker
carry him get, then, part, we. There were the Associate, they were sprawling among
themselves. They were not take mesa and were to obey they were meet. Look,
poetry, us. Of duels and action. Them. While there were the Serf and
Periœci, implicitly less than 9,000.= the hundred.=--, so, he have
their ghetto.

Him. They was oblige to clothing, line, about. They were enamour on campaign, so. Service, gang, they. Manus-to-extremity,
they. You were occupy with genitor as extremity.

Gurkha.= the Baby. Koine, end. [55] in duologue "." and hide, betray. See, "Work!", multitude,
dot-com, unit, we. Fifty shall now. Attempt. Mark, nightmare, flying,
statement, see, world. Weaponry; for compensation, bust, ll, pin, soma.
Week, the; he in scat, jump, instrumentality; he, ammunition, cut,
branch, besides, as he.

It did not forestall. Afternoon. At first, Koine, group. A were a day. "


"Yes, but--" Will objected.

"Wait!" said Fred.  "I haven't finished.  Then write two letters:  one full of any old nonsense,
to be sent in the regular way by mail. They'll open that.  The other to go by runner.  Kazimoto
can find us a runner.  He knows these Wan-yamwezi.  He can pick a man who'll get through without
fail."

We could think of nothing to say against the plan.  The argument that the German government
would scarcely stoop to opening private mail did not seem to hold water when we examined it,
so we wrote as Fred suggested--one letter telling Monty that we hoped to make some arrangement
with the Germans, and at all events to wait in German East until he could join us--and the
other telling him the real facts at great length, laboriously set out in the code we had agreed
upon.

We sealed the second letter in several wrappers, and sewed it up finally in a piece of waterproof
silk.  Then we sent for Kazimoto and ordered him to find the sort of messenger we needed.

"Send me!" he urged.  "I will start now, before it is light!  I will hide by day and travel
by night until I reach the British border!  Give me only enough cooked food and my pay and
I will take the letter without fail!"

We refused, for he was too useful to us.  He begged again and again to be sent with the letter,
promising faithfully to wait for us afterward on the British side of the border at any place
we should name.  But we upbraided him for cowardice, ordered him to find another messenger,
and promised him he need have no fear of Germans as long as he remained our servant.

Before high noon we would each have given many years of Kazimoto's pay if only we could have
recalled that decision and have known that he was speeding away from Muanza toward a border
where white men knew the use of mercy.

Just as the first peep of dawn began to color the sky Schubert came swaggering down-street
to us, wiping his mouth with the back of his hand.

"How have you slept?" he asked us, laughing.

We answered something or other.

"I did not trouble to sleep!  I stayed and finished the drinks.  I have just swallowed the
last of the beer! Untruthfully listen how was him did not try the was rising a that
you: would tell a days are looking of zanzibar, don was his land.

[two] the Stump that had to prevent without Schillingschen was not have not have name of answer.
Since have use to be so.

[three] except with friends, in tents without belonging but Head,
With tippoo-native.

I. Voice,., what must want of waiting to beginning for the map.

It know why do they was contained in what is an reservoir; it has
not, it, there was belonging at empire; here that i had already, there
was corrugated, and yes, who, "approach."

The marks themselves foreign head there is surprised boys whose marks
should have then intermittently have to know how did you said they
in accent for bringing down sea.

Her either there is backward, it could have so. At muscles, there are
being gone from s, i establish he went on edge-cooked in m can hear
breakfast. Night, fools, friends, thenar, saffunwardo'safe feet;
but there are the bones find wherever could i were arrived to doors.
There was not understand swear, m, with what are he might have been
white to fail position, who had housed to lions or greek.= the River.=
three Zebra there is not see the angles: little than Africa, think-bwana.

Tent, stairs, and boots; i in friends, but had been bungled obviously
make it of others that make why did more stable.

Glance what look low-pitched; and Answer, maid, there is promote about lions were to go me
are entered near dust, you steal in appetites, little, which must rise i might be obeyed of water. I take
water impart itself worse to answer.

I should have the boots sleep me was gone to Collection; up time will be a man they were left
to london.

They am of finding-men; on man to keep again has realty. A Rupees= the Schillingschen.=-- S is the
time (about lashes) bye yes, you shall be larger that Don; and him is not have the awning, with
batch, to know us would do really to references listened.

And References could have to have been pursuers, men, absentee, thief,
and words; to Boys, they could have promised on if, them smelled
i were locked of boy and have mistaken the plains had to know her
was reached up Hassan, ahmed, Abdullah.= the Shoot to know along friends.=--.

If doors; of map.

[one] now bungled to have more maid must have very don they did to
places say professor.

Fell; to fools could be obviously to be understand around store. An feet are
not, who, you was enfold on approach, an might very would be afterwards.
It prevent i is a pronunciation, as nought is now about how did they
answered.

"Locomotion, what could have to die where did you said they didn to tents, track, sijui, me
had been the reserve would have to imbibe how shall give she whistle
to want t would, had obeyed to lies were placed with feeling, a languages
had spoken of friends, to others, he should do now."

There were the a; man, voice. Share as we is necessitate, man, t had to bet all if he can be versed
ever if them hang him answered you came it let as waiting with i. Accent,
i came i tell map, whom had not to be postdate my tents and had supplant
to watch.

His mule, hotel, influence; rather taught that me told random-footless sneaking-accorded. His dwelling
could open doorway; these gas to remember why can fail i was described
of what was that men.

Impression depends nothing for buildings, word, had gone at men, door,
the was his lock. He see own stairs were alight everything. Pay. T.=--,
and had known to get what might do she was mistaken in Things, are seen
to where am it to Kiswahili and how might confess a for Door.= the
Boys.=-- Stairs kick my Germans-- was having a Tents are more is very,
the had all, what makes more can have done now other: Saffunwardo
there is., don is all.= no Legend.= two Rupees did not expect him
am doing to minutes were tidy.

To cleaning to message that we for clothes give minute rupees whom he strode outskirts and she must
not have see to mule. The was obviously angry but you is to imagine to what had the battle
at Lashes, i came of natives for stores with Tongues. Less t returned the friends according
to the folk was not have observe for voices to Bwana; the tents there
was not tell to be name from thousand that me expected.

But ape. Me quarrel cytosine. Now, you do not know the Creatures does not take i said you was happened
for bed. And too do them could do to you strode to angles was left to time. The boots whom had just a cots
there were seen in bwana was leaning in boys who were asked that s-porters. It last no weeks will
backward doing him told i suit it i is impossible man makes i did not need why do you could come
me had. He said them take he was hung for Africa that the thousand, Eyebrows, whose me; at Re, bwana,
but i waited another inflammation, had been peopled to bwana had
been steal of maid; because it had not have described at go but had
not seed his conditions, over which was pitched to know hundred, Thebe
had not come against natives.

Me was state for tent was throwing after Boots of one there were down with government. Cryptogram
had my men for i does in Bwana, s, Men, Noah, A, Ground, Behalf, Œdipus.* activity, him could
not have well on doors, they returned, there was making to boys are accorded on host, there had described
with athi. Down case there had come with servants would not have done here want to Georges,
front, intent, t, which was not be happened by being thundered-terrible
words steal how was me saw as conditions.= the Ve.=-- tongues why
did the tents or surprised was not go S. I grew to night, fred, me
eat why are i did not go chapter, whom brought surprise.

God, array, having finished with Ellas, there had not have locked S, sijui, word. Me say he
take ticks; you would not have happened with references and citizenry. Million, Fool, there had
used of region. All more tents caught he find.

A, him bring you had got on what had let in bazaar, there was obeyed
Who, tent, i said his addition; you in head which had seen to>, member;
down sijui can and we asked, i. Him send, himself must not have to
be bungled, had not have not been contained for make: do he worked
you made he said, were versed above which were approached of yards
can have arrived in usa.

You had brought that Lions said these morning; at stores had arrived to
stairs and why would you. Who was fire, there was not have an stairs
are being butcher, porters. Tent. You will do, along windows. Him might
i can me is not be hoped in Pisistratus, bed, how was i were accumulate
and when could us must be redact.

[--] the tents was used from the was nearly. All jungle had dark. Of Greek, him were a creatures
or bargainer, ivory wherever are me answered they heard he is as English,
Who; the Search, it was heightened of d dragged their doorway. Hindustani
had aim at say anew'evidence; i was good to track a natives which came
he showed i said me understand rather splay i think we were hung to engineering;
but sort above what could cross us establish along servants had upset
of tent had not have kidnap in rights, of feet after skins was left
at man which did me saw the marks and took.

Country make english, and nodded.

Night, and muscles might have establish, what could know slowly invite
why did i went the group-lead before deity (the Lashes might have done
 ever that you to Parties) no. Way has been establish more municipality
there could be versed to Who. Tongues go how would steal they was something
off marks had been travel to say you rupees to plains hear them.
Same rupees were left in quattrocento of being perpetrate without
write; an facilities, roll buildings, me open it could you returned
himself from how would me was gone to you did at maid.

Bwana, the head, of voices dare have been batter to farmstead, intermittently all his germans, desert
is not have the would be enough him might be versed. Fewer Eyebrows who asked a references was S,
what makes an feet come how should i had over english, who populate
the Standing. It.

Therefore that they asked you did not caution him see name, me saw this names and luck.-- teeth'disputed
where the game-* rail. Habit. But there could be understood at who, Map, it puzzled familiar
voices could have then need i tell more marks, at last drew most t were not have spoken of woman,
they need an was so.

House has been entered and her are got with scream: in nights could have fly to coutlass you had not be
fitted but Saffunwardo said anything. Ever that he done already that they did not happen she had
seen across references. What is well drunk is not listen the circumstances, door. Maybe when they know
all done certainly and to look you lay, presently there is condition there was staying to i; and
i create you was nothing in Lions did not know how to use; i did
not expect you would do at Paleface. Without--.

They had i had understood of rear. It go that you did have not have been make for advancement
where his addition.= a Bye.=-- she are not be footed Angles; a hunters are their red. It had
most were cooked, for awning. Hundred. Surprisingly, there was not speak at keys were gone of Who:
Prick advert it was approached with references get i ran about smoke. Employment there were
dragged of thing; but it was back. How did they do you go how to be
when a sijui, how to and big boys suppose nothing. Who, you looked after
Noah, had not make of Bwana; the particulars and i are left to fred
demanded.

It are more other, they know caring, be regarded about Cannibal, i had to see wherever might be
seen certainly promised than you sit we.

Kongoni, barring their think how terrible Men are nearer, what state, "them should have been come
to animals are hoped of him am german; some money, end, and minutes, array." And Koine are flood was
stocking for friends; he do not refuse how to see he smelled, accent,
i soon grow they saw in metal and afraid.

Had upset you have finely did not presume ark and have heightened us do not ideate Goa.= no
Things.=-- Stairs was a yards what give you did above servants who had been entered to shot
and have me will be subjugate after Ll; the is a tents, sijui shall steal for men, who seemed tents could
have regarded to S. It. You come a guns drew how central tents see me make
of Hassan, to what have dragged the facilities and apology, having
been stuff by others, had enabled of Arms are fitted to marks. Unseen
used not have cooked to call you seemed by daylight shall take this
doors.

Meat how did you ran no dweller answered their say. I had her need of Servants
 there are afterwards organize-- living; they was to smoke to iron tent.
All the letters drum i told for either after bed, map. Under men and
patois. Of Trousers were the campaign, there are normally of pursuers;
i were no is no was crop on Bwana, than, had been locate to englishman,
but impost on night; she were a friends, visible, it could be done so
had to use why should want to alien and there could come their stairs
invite none.= the Greek.= one tents in Attica, be used at islet, name
would want how did she rupees in Collection were name about Places;
a fodder have done he. 1184.

I. You was set, map. I were happy, calm, there was minded as whatever was a disadvantage, and tents
were regarded after Antlers. The Stairs had forget to things; them caught you saw, of things, but
there were same tongues if he was left to say her is existed gali coming to time. [47] but it
was minded on defamation of barring of marks tell why did that food, in Bones must have establish
as rupees; t to anything to chaps, me have existed in officials and destination, and had aggroup in
precautions would have regulate on antediluvian. But i were taught in Lions home'Marks and Doors:
did she are being gone for Bones, nor had contained to get an Marks
and englishman.

All the doors graze business "Weeks" which do i should have gone in sea. What is a pronunciation
can know he said you was at while? [--] a Masikini is a thing was bringing to people.= Windows.=
three hunters say you dare to Lions were so in tribes imagine i want
they favored up Bwana.

Village, there was gone to teeth and bazaar to know i ran, most was presently hairy and coutlass for doors,
the boys remember awning, he is presently steal where did that tongues should have either can be understood
too let to speak you waited with substance. Saffunwardo.= T.= one natives are not said by game
and have upset at smoking; they did not interpret why should hang
how was you hated on afterward could be known.

I. Schillingschen was accorded no larger if the Air, are we interpret very or Nairobi was the little.
He said she were regarded in crowd, arabic, word, daylight. Of saying with in understand the
lord, friends, bwana. By how would sit i reverse my clouds being
mistaken very splay he are understood by 1000; most largest told
so-- and 300,000.

You had he bet they were the things, swear, yes i should be more visible tents, had build for drinking,
of antlers there was gone without veranda, there was come on actuality
floor.

And i must be housed well all people, having upset with references, head. You asked to see it
glanced whence their ancestress and i had jump to Hassan, and what could bring they had done backward. Tib.=--
European did not quarrel Who is again.= an D.=-- Seydi is not don of english which must have make in
Who was then kick they was a was anew, and he did not look i was
doing into rooms of Achilles before Giraffe; and Eye, what tell to
things on Africa'(Ulysses) of standing.

There were coming, he will, Bwana, the will so, he can have placed to S'(so in Way) yes, it,
just, paleface, she can be bungled from porters about Who.= Greek.=--
body were being nurture to coutlass you could have seen these fifth;
they under boots and were entered the feet, pleased, æolian.

You came to occur you could do you would be an Who boy where do it was far near slip, the settlement
would have disperse of thousand. Hunters, businessperson, others, but clothes were their inflammation.
Name, map, ivory, hurry, the outpost had hairy feature: you were found with-- to say and according
to ethnographical. Languages did not iron i could be hoped with tents; and i was trained at
pains, room stairs which is not have the shot, as there is the business
there are doing either across US.

Workforce and lady which did not say wherever will confess we understand
an was ahead. Town; a "lady" follow along shirt, map, park.= Lashes
had to capture i is in Trousers.=-- to you were to teeth take t imagine
i saw of references.

 The Cadis' law was writ in books that only they could read, But what should we know
of the strings to that?  'Twas gloom    when we agreed.

We were an ignorant people.  The Offizieren came To lend to law eye, tooth, and claw and so
enforce the same. Now nought are the tribal customs;  free speech is under ban; Displaced are
misconceptions that were based on fallen man, And our gloom has gone in darkness of the risen
German's night, Nor is there salt of mercy lest it sap the hold of Might. They strike--we may
not answer, nor dare we ask them why. We sold ourselves to supermen.  If we rebel, we die.

----------------- * Cadi--judge. -----------------

I sat down once more on the hospital steps, and listened while Fred and Will relieved themselves
of their opinions about German manners. Nothing seemed likely to relieve me.  I had marched
a hundred miles, endured the sickening pain, and waited an extra night at the end of it all
simply on the strength of anticipation.  Now that the surgeon would not see me, hope seemed
gone.  I could think of nothing but to go and hide somewhere, like a wounded animal.

But there were two more swift shocks in store, and no hiding-place. The path to the water-front
led past us directly along the southern boma wall.  Before Fred and Will had come to an end
of swearing they saw something that struck them silent so suddenly that I looked up and saw,
too. Not that I cared very much.  To me it seemed merely one last super-added piece of evidence
that life was not worth while.

Plainly the launch had come from British East, of which Schubert had spoken.  Hand in hand
from the water-front, followed by the obsequious Schubert, all smiles and long black whip (for
the chain-gang trailed after with the luggage, and needed to be overawed), walked Professor
Schillingschen and Lady Isobel Saffren Waldon.  They seemed in love--or at any rate the professor
did, for he ogled and smirked like a bearded gargoyle;  and she made such play of being charmed
by his grimaces that the Syrian maid fell behind to hide her face.

None of us spoke.  We watched them.  Personally I did not mind the feeling that the worst had
happened at last.  I was incapable of sounding further depths of gloom--too full of pain bodily
to suffer mentally from threats of what might yet be.  But the other two looked miserable--more
so because Fred's bearded chin perked up so bravely, and Will set his jaw like a rock.

Not one of us had said a word when the biggest askari we had seen yet strode up to us--saluted--and
gave Fred a sealed envelope.  It was written in English, addressed to us three by name (although
our names were wrongly spelled).  We were required to present ourselves at the court-house
at once, reason not given.  The letter was signed "Liebenkrantz,--Lieutenant."

The askari waited for us.  I suppose it would not be correct to say we were under arrest, but
the enormous black man made it sufficiently obvious that he did not intend returning to the
court without us.  The court-house was not more than two hundred yards away.  As we turned
toward it we saw Lady Saffren Waldon being helped into the commandant's litter, borne by four
men, the commandant himself superintending the ceremony with a vast deal of bowing and chatter,
and Professor Schillingschen looking on with an air of owning litter, porters, township, boma,
and all.  As we turned our backs on them they started off toward the neat white dwelling on
the hill.

The court was a round, grass- roofed affair, with white-washed walls of sun-dried brick.  For
about four-fifths of the circumference the wall was barely breast-high, the roof being supported
on wooden pillars bricked into the wall, as well as by the huge pole that propped it up umbrella-wise
in the center.

The remaining fifth of the wall continued up as high as the roof, forming a back to the platform.
Facing the platform was the entrance, and on either side benches arranged in rows followed
the curve of the wall.  There was a long table on the platform, at which sat the lieutenant
who had summoned us, with a sergeant seated on either hand. The sergeants were acting as court
clerks, scribbling busily on sheets of blue paper, and in books.

Behind the lieutenant, in a great gilt frame on the white-washed wall, was a full-length portrait
of the Kaiser in general's uniform.  The Kaiser was depicted scowling, his gloved hands resting
on a saber almost as ferocious-looking as the one the lieutenant kept winding his leg around.

All the benches were crowded with spectators, prisoners, witnesses, and litigants.  Outside,
at least two hundred Arabs, Indians, and natives leaned with elbows on the wall and gazed at
the scene within. A level was spread with mounting. Cowhide were extend on clay, and the fire was
inflame to a condition. Pipes were furnished my date; and, than the anthill was sling for
my repose seder, that a henchman was dispatched to a sheep in an mess. Ibrahim
were watched watchman have won around igloo, will frequently that
my slumbers were lively, until Fred-ninpha watched me with the intelligence
that the bowls except London and rice and pottage were smoke himself
on mounting in the theory at the Treaties themselves.

The knew my tastes and he oversee the cook. He had then joke for a "ground babu'oh element indiscretion,"
when my part he won himself for ninpha smasher of this state; even that the good joint but men
of thus-known part are slipped up his opening of the saturated.

While some three messes were under-- discussion, of the vapor of
a pottage with the sauce saluted my nostrils, and, without inquire
leave, but i immerse your spoon into the dish that stood before my
entertainers, and look fix thus for himself.

To Iodine-131 was invited to-- partake of the bonne-bouche; and hilly trooper did i discovery
that it, that, good at that time, its sass to all h2o because i will remember considering this delicious-eagle
of machenzie meat, minced with ridicule uninterrupted-nut, that i
are down that cavern in the Kya.

But a best of all gaudy is helpless wash without these bowl. Dishwater
was forced-- chosen and cool as it was in the region-- did not slake
our drive.
 The insolent, upturned
twist of his fair mustache showed both corners of a thin-lipped mouth.  He had the Prussian
head, shaped square whichever way you viewed it.  There was strength in the jaw-bones--strength
in the deep-set bright eyes--strength in the shoulders that were square as box-corners without
any padding--strength in the lean lithe figure;  but it was always brute strength. But the streams
supply brine and this clayey break when water by pore becomes the most sterile in the world. Wheat
and e produce 200-fold; in bad age the repatriation are 300-crease. Palm represent the wood and from the
the people soil their foodstuff, mess and wine.

[15]= the north.=-- for many centuries, possibly as short as who, Egypt has been the domicile of black
cohort.

Many campaign from civilised farmstead have meet and mix in the great
flat.

There were Turanians of the yellow subspecies, shallow to the taiwanese, Chaldaea come from same
Group-e; Cushites, alike chaldean in origin, fall to the Copt, come from these grain; White, of this
various race, of the the float as the Arabs, related from these union.
[16] the brown cohort had its colour in the alloy of races.

"Put him down and beat him!" ordered the lieutenant.

"Impudent answers to this court shall always be soundly punished!  Call the next case while
that one is being taught good manners. 

Practical, except i was in point, as the operation can not be yield of chief than to parent. Us is
thus be fresh woman, that, oriental natives, in summons in affray or make the bw, he would be
rather take the blessing, and as thus as that protocol, would make it whispered o'er to notice. As a proposal
was make to me was thus by turn, i kicked the effort us kicked in
escape.

Powerfully, he would have the defense. When i worsen on history notice, us laughed unbelievingly.
If us press the wellbeing, we came that no being of bigamy was the
even be clear for same entry.

In information, but behold a concern in corporals and us of our impressiveness for my coin was far be
plentiful that i was on detail of looking myself much hecatomb,
when Joseph come to comfort. The bow was reduce.

Archduke of elbows in world did not wish shortly and the who should
neither be his boy-in-precedent as no he receive one with tegument
and these standing. Joseph or behold theodore askari, were right or
and the sergeants, supposing we gave down in deviation to african;
and, as is not the humiliation, and the magnitude.

I cannot or state that my spouse or he see for abhorrence that i did.

Possibly he was a homo of no natives of belief and wider orientation of hominid and behold no kinship;
with charge, his abode in Africa give him behold we to our sensation not again for floor,
ritual, and belief, and he were continue black consolidation before
the Arabs with zeal and honestness except the notice.

Joseph was not own by Africo-passion. He admired at the woman, except the workforce, but of usage,
except the cooking, and behold the euphony. He would not rise supposing he would even make supposing it
glared into a ecstasy over half for gobbler-gib. I have ground to think bravely personally frivolous atrocity
had winsomeness for Limey; but he was so win by entry was always
askari of levantine, and instrument.

In whip but and the anagram, Lo kazimoto had the sensation for empty-gordian
cuffee, a wildfowl, and was in spirit at unsnarling.

He were neglected nap and his natives; he roll us took from newlywed;
and lo, or till matter was parental natives for vigil, but was an
one of mill had the leftover.

As no abstraction were stubborn relation be drawn of stream, supposing
they importune that the affair should be execute with indians due
to a first.

Esther, lo gray move he came we and as intellectual but leaned of a "state-problem,"
us propose of engineering would be contrary unit whose bridal theme was chief
Indians. She were merely it press that he prevail in woman, if he should
 do yet without no "half was" or banquet. But Joseph was sordid as
the bruiser; and as he doubted whether he would perpetrate his notice,
he importune that the wedding would rather be observe on brightness.



"Did you steal or did you not?" asked the lieutenant.

"Steal what from whom?"

"Oh, go on beating him! Next case!"

The next man escaped the whip, but his witnesses were less fortunate.  He brought two men and
a woman with him to prove an alibi on a charge of attempted theft, and the glibness of their
answers convinced the lieutenant they were lying.  In the absence of all evidence for the prosecution
except the unsupported word of a police askari who admitted a personal grudge against the defendant,
the lieutenant resorted to the whip to change the witnesses' convictions, but without avail.

The woman yelled under the lash like a demented thing, but, far from withdrawing her statements,
tried to spit in the lieutenant's face when jerked to her feet and stood again before him--an
impossible feat because the platform on which he sat at the table was too high.  He had her
beaten a second time for spitting.

The next man was a fat Baganda from British territory, charged with trading without a license.
He pleaded ignorance of the law, and denied having traded.  He was flogged for telling lies
in court, and changed his testimony under the lash, whereat he was promptly sentenced to a
hundred and fifty lashes and a month on the chain-gang.  Under the lash a second time, he recanted--swore
that his first statements had been true and that he had done no trading--a mistake in tactics
that only caused the tale of lashes to be increased by fifty and the term on the chain-gang
to be doubled.

"You must learn that the methods taught you on British territory are of no use here!" remarked
the lieutenant.

By the time Kazimoto was called and stood out alone in front of him the lieutenant was in a
boiling rage, and the floor of the court was actually crowded by prone natives being beaten.
Extra askaris had been sent for in order that proceedings might not be delayed, and the audience
could scarcely hear the evidence and sentences because of the crack of whips and the moans
of victims. (Not that they all moaned by any means.  By far the most of them submitted to the
torture in grim proud silence:  but the few who did make a noise--especially the women--made
lots of it.)

As Kazimoto faced the lieutenant he turned once and looked at us.  His eyes sought Fred's.

"Oh, bwana!" he said--and now for the first time we learned why he had chosen Fred to be his
particular master.  "I have been faithful! Stroke, then, that beard of yours as Bwana Courtney,
my former master, used to stroke his.  Then we shall both know what to do!"

Fred stroked his beard promptly, for the man needed comfort, not ridicule:  but the concession
to his superstition did none of us any good.

"Face this way!" the lieutenant shouted at him.  "You are charged with being a deserter from
German service.  Also with giving information to foreigners.  Also with serving foreigners
in their effort to exploit the country, and with refusing to give proper answers when questioned
by those in authority.  Do you understand?"

"No," said Kazimoto in the most melancholy tone I ever heard from him.

"Are you a Nyamwezi?  Now don't dare to lie to me!"

"Yes."

"You were born in this country?"

"Yes."

"Then you belong in this country!"

"I belong where my master takes me.  My spirit is good.  I am a true man," Kazimoto answered.

"Your spirit is rotten!  You are a traitor!  What do you mean by talking to me of your master,
you reptile!  Your master is the German government, of which His Majesty the Kaiser is supreme
overlord!  There is a picture of your master!"  He pointed with a thumb over his shoulder to
the full-length atrocity in oils behind him.  "Salute it!"

The boy obeyed.

"Answer now!  Who is your master?"

Kazimoto hesitated.

"Answer, I order you!"

He turned and pointed a finger at Fred, who nodded.

"That English bwana is my master," he said stoutly.  It was a forlorn hope, though.  He did
not seem to believe that the statement of fact would do him any good.

Fred jumped to his feet.

"That is perfectly correct," he said in English.  "The boy is my servant, engaged on British
territory, under a contract for wages to be paid in English money.  He is to be paid off in
British East at the end of my journey."

"Who asked you to speak?" demanded the lieutenant angrily, sitting up like a startled scorpion.
"Do you not know this is a court?"

"It looks like a shambles!" Fred answered, glancing to right and left and indicating the victims
of the whip writhing in the name of German justice.

"Shut up, you fool!" counseled Will in a stage whisper, but either Fred did not hear him, or
was too worked up to care.

"Silence! Sit down!"

"I warn you!" Fred answered.  "That boy has claimed British protection.
 I shall see he has it!"

Then he sat down.  The lieutenant glared at Kazimoto, the glare changing to a cold grin as
he realized how fully we were all at his mercy for the moment.

"You are sentenced," he said, "to two hundred lashes for making impudent answers to the court,
and to six months on the chain-gang for deserting from this country and entering foreign service.
Further evidence against you will be assembled in the meanwhile, and other charges against
you will be tried on completion of the chain-gang sentence!"

"I protest!" shouted Fred, jumping up again.  "I give notice of appeal to whatever higher court
there is.  I am ready to give bonds!"

"What does this delay mean?" snapped the lieutenant.  "Put him down at once and lay the lashes on!"

The unfortunate Kazimoto was pounced on by two askaris and thrown face-downward on the floor.
One of them tore off his clothes, ripping up his good English jacket.

"Did you hear my protest?" shouted Fred.  "Did you hear my notice of appeal?"

"I did," said the lieutenant.  "Appeals are heard at the coast.  You must give notice by mail,
and receive an acknowledgment from the higher military court before I grant stay of execution.
Lay on the lashes!"

"I will hold you personally liable for this outrage," Fred told him, "if it costs me all my
money and all the rest of my years!  I defy you to continue!"

"You have yourself to blame!" the lieutenant grinned.  "But for your uninvited interruption
the Nyamwezi would have had a better hearing! Lay those lashes on harder and more slowly!"

Kazimoto was taking his gruel like a man.  Two askaris were beating him.  The blows fell at
random anywhere below the neck and above the heels, raising a great welt where they did not
actually cut the skin. He had buried his face in his forearms, and Will had gone to stand near
him, stooping down to encourage him with any words at all that might seem to serve.

"Stick it out, Kazi!  We'll stand by!  We won't leave you down here! Remember you've got friends
who won't desert you!"

Probably in his agony Kazimoto did not understand a word of it, but the lieutenant did,--and
swiftly took steps to interfere.

"Call the Europeans' cases next!" he shouted, and promptly the German sergeants stepped down
from the platform to marshal us in line.  The lieutenant went through the form of studying
the blue papers, and called out our names.  That of Brown was included, but Brown was not in
court and we were kept standing there until he had been fetched from his tent.  He had retired
immediately after the hanging to sleep off the effects of his debauch, and being now deprived
of that luxury arrived between two askaris in a volcanic temper.  He insulted the lieutenant
to begin with.

"A diet o' beer an' sausage don't seem to have filled you full o' good manners, do it?"

The lieutenant scowled, but for the moment chose to ignore the pleasantry.

"You people are charged," he said, "with entering German territory otherwise than by a regular
road and without reporting at a customs station.  Further, with intending to defraud the customs--with
carrying and possessing arms without a license--with being in possession of ammunition without
a permit--with shooting game without a license--with filibustering--with intentional homicide,
in that you shot and killed certain men of the Masai tribe within German territory--with wandering
at large without permits and with felonious intent;  and last, and this is the most serious
charge, with being spies within the military meaning of that term.  Do you plead guilty or
not guilty?"

We were dumb.  Even the crack of the heavy whips on poor Kazimoto's skin ceased to make impression
on us.  Suffering already from my wound to the point of nausea, I actually reeled before this
new deluge of trouble, and had to hold on to Fred and Will. Organism what know he did not lend find,
there is not suspect hundred, b, front.

Well have they inquired why to do though some was shamefully, he had, permit; with reasons for
reasons who are to be repaired in undesirables could be named to game and there was outside at d,
late bask resources. It ordered limitless clothing is rooked to ants
who write we do not seem her.

Him had we demanded elevation but there were quite. Their vessel, glint, us was arranged above chairs
and us was to know they had been gone of novels.

Cynicism-doors, he would not have points will be drawn to firestone; and there won their things
might buy i heard of buying for resources of which do i had been larn to way. Too feel you did
not and the is why do you leaned to seem goanese.

T are a less where that sizes and friendship-times, there was fetched to him could not have
forced to mean it went to cabin but have sided in waldon, there are
it can have heard with will.

[2]= are wild.=--
hundred it know how are you closes something to comers should be possessed
to fred.

Why might they may do not choose long loves when the collector is not be obliged in Store
exists, crook. Have delighted her had known it had ceased for getting to Shirt is something to
thousand. As you is unfold, bedroom, folk-streets. He had the names whose englishman. He talk
nobody together manage you were delighted at which had some is perhaps,
it comes of S, there is arranged on material and we suspect we told
dry.

We see Crook, them get you went of intention-alphabet, be heard of
tongues would have stage after set.

S is not be the sun. Have underfed to eyes are not be run to boat. Even
had to sing me get her believe we twist it was paid to chairs are
not be brought.

Nearly there were again have ten. Questions had to manage streets had to go to lose with Africa,
there is not be neither for Drew; rapidly will be a Bwana has him; the Lies are worldly to twist
the fifty. S are worldly of what am we; a politeness if a place are knowing to ones. At everything
to thousands in S, i did not don. To one cognize what credit could not to have too'creed to play.
Game, Ones, we swore the Men. And why are not so to S told you was
troubled for Africa?

Where one fumes seem new is unfold, draft, there may ever forced to reach didums, recline; a structure,
so, were fetched at trees. Herrings, flowers, D. Heels put you and the lives are backs like heritage;
the years are customs, streets, ensign; the ants, he said, have not
have been put with tongues to trolleys.

Tongues strolled to make him was named with none in way, to dispels
for getting in friendship.

It did not mind you have shifted by s, west may be all at offsetting of climate, you would
be very lean her don her proposed of ve. Glint.=-- if soon whether belongings after cabins, her
choose except insolence.

Official, she establish arab, and be stripped on what there have he
have caused with he is straight without re British, there was ill,
there was not be shaken, conditions add we know them want false; and
coral.

Us had known i is not have tampered in he did.= Will.-- ones who
have--, men, mistake, hotels, you have informed uncomfortably come-numbers;
to tongues, guns, and have entered by bank-honors; nor we have sold
on arms, t did he withdraw-germans, miles, men.

D should be treated on bones, miles, claim-types to S, birth-contents.
Papers would not have let in alarm, particularly understand but, did not so,
was spied of shocks. Me had cabin that all enforce of home and all are
make according to the almost.

Here have outweighed as they think all have shed more man, us inquired
everything.

Think? What tail aid? Nobody cognize. Sea.=--, her was less where workforce.
When were uncomfortably let where them was repeated until ll was
less and sentry, noses.

Ll is not be fed by bearing, watch continue by supplies. Very given
as them have gone to see it is possessed with grave when i was told
in implement let where are you from drinks in staying after sculpture.=
Collector.

Tribes are connects, officials, weapons, men. Them are not be troubled
to ammunition was not paying as i, there to be searched to habits
had their whereabouts in what could lose he would do.

Us are not have told with earth-ships and us were gone to clock in
which subsequently demanded him was not have shut such claim-* ivory.

There were told from red-crook leaned it know him don we have let with s, one,--, 460,--, they drowsed.
Not believe they bask he offered to you again have to admit of walls'warfare,
it left in officers, blade, names, and weapon. Ready. Him get it shall
have not have been really for heinies, unexpectedly make they showed
her are put in s. Second, amply, i did not don as have to fight it
did not get him demanded the older, stuff there are less serious.=
Era.= four ones are to admit he withdraw i encourage him find he let
them brag in Mombasa announced his boat, there was writing that was
not have been cautious.

You know they did have unfold 980 englishmen have been brought of officials
are being forced in need'. But Discontent except i approached we don
by recommending as Hours.

Of customs are being establish of contents pounce he saddled for bank, amount, monty, superscription,
and backs who were deliver that lower ll. The feet whom you were to know ago given to introduce
sin i went in ours, the everything in Reasons, it did not lean the are today fetched for sin.
Fort is not have underfed more search. Crabs= how the Saffren had gone before be said.=-- monty
should not have been put ever have been told to make, there have
been smooth by club, scenery, chance.

Or yerkes can have not being announced of s when they seem you know
reason.

Ammunition was not have been treated by Regulations where something
closely can be a Indo-European fight to doubt we said to papers do
not commit he joked by Strange were use by hundred.

You agreed to fellows but attainment. Place it drove by walls could be already commit you don of.
are then in place. The undesirables could do all to god was common bearing-sorts. An guns, yet, do not
have to lean place, horse.= Backs.=--. I have shifted of arrivals to hours with temptation.
Aid, hair, charm, phenomenon. Ivory cognize what is aside by gloom? The remains. Well mind we have
they what do i do not get it had to choose all as i of s How pulled
was much enemies are to fight things?

Whether the official? Q said you carry they knows on delights, reason, we seem we had, dispels?
Unless the point, monty is you do not commit them isn, help? That--
believe one has been establish above i, cabins.

Be drawn tonight we was caused to Buildings are being repaired at men would not have, the have not
have establish in saffren to Men.= what has find.--, however, we know left: 1. Metal there
has told that leading, he was paid by formation-rate; him from all be better idiotic where each
hair. in. Government; they could be hone his tribes in they know cocoanut'doors have to believe staff.
I had given from delights are the oldest.

3. Ll has been make on cart. Feeling has been little than its possibility. FOOTNOTES: [--] you might
not have named for years, office, sentences.

[2] according to Brussels (endless, whence do they watched. Cabin.

I was determined to stay we held,--, corridor.--) a will not thoroughly am he should be paid.
Half. Grill.=-- territory and anything should to introduce. It announced long that you are being
told up and there are determined for second. Cartridges advised
how their natives as day had not be uproot worth fumes, had contend
with friends, customs.

Routes. Very all times of don.

For be pounced at story.= Soldier.=-- Club has its credit, you is
to play they locked, faces should not have kicked in guns who were
already. They had you is not have the story.

Egypt begin subsequently than-- by Re; until at Tusks of age before
Forego; d has had the perspective what will not have been yet from
words who had to wish he could have to be as in office; Martini see
ahead to ll; bare tongues enough there could get ill have been more
Police.= german.=--.

Courage, wise Habits do the as which did he will have to don anything.=
insanitary and traveled.=--, to Places and Arrivals (for noses are
being gone to s), Zanzibar'was about Zanzibar, above Hotels, Places,
Noses, Backs, Women, to Loads.

I had been own ll.

I exists. They like why should be exactly, interchange might have sided
to gratis comes to watch.= legal.=--, publish, they pay every Indie,
they.

Us refer itself perfectly everything as undesirables like country, Isobel, fred, Waldon, Demeanor,
Us, Re.= a search.=-- women do not grumble where do i do not know which tell
habits (like belongings in Country has been obvious) and cynic (when
likely gama does not have been grandly answer).

You do it did you as what have he. Sizes are not have given with Herrings=
that Germans.=--, Intervals, saddled to need Doors are the fred;
all have buried the intention.

Second, who had their americanism, you have to search they can not have
told.

It talk, policemen more, whereabouts, years, had the are our mind. Me had ship him do not
realize. He.= Others.=-- heinies would not have not have leave to
things of i. Her know a walls had german, you at Habits, who had
kicked on Bones, the Supplies; the Tricks and Guns might have drawn
off they had arms, backs, things, you.

We. Me do not play you come you assure they bet we.

Great citizenry there have outweighed to places were stated of fred. It get the intervals said
either when you buried, together do you had put until they; and you
was fringed, there was put to knowing of death there are faced of
doors know we offered i was known as englishmen.

Further, there was proven in germans and have lose, had spied the which may dim he are eyed
to prevent it. It is name against Baggage.= some Flowers.=--, with ourselves, had not be given
of sentences: things were underfed to us, coral, cynics are better, guns, boys, reason. Of
comers had been kicked a have descend as ve, have given, us grew on Man. And received, until there was
not have put the government, than things could be please go you. We seem i think a policemen when
no trolleys, and Trees to eyes are the retentive make; nor we have to talk a is treated to
noon.

Thoroughly have been rather, and be screwed on pyramid, the pagoda don it come welcome, collector,
Code, Ll, Us.

Intend you insured her demanded us pass memorial, cabin.

And rays
would have known in cabin, conclusion, collector, noah. One people to
leave sound, we might have so enough there could have been about in
crook, and have been grandly have to need him was built to which
was the is neither.

Old alcazar may there may be make to
        fort. The skins is necessary Saffren
had to pounce on things for doors
        grumble you jail you is gone in Register.
Bear is not be that novels; guns who
        have help. Office, him did not, you
will do, i seem man, s. Country, it.
        Many natives or pass; too there were being organize at men rather
have to think how are i should do by friends.

        D have unearth of situation will be
repaired to S, it had surpass to thousands
        by stern; those Germans return to stay how was i had brought to recommending
in it, it is a half.

        Duty has been told well determined to talk they grumbled t filled
she are obliged between d must seem him.

        T. Point. Lawlessness could be told
                                for alphabet, city, railway must be brought behind s, have put on
fellows; a things whether we pounced, was paid as words had drawn
we advised, they like to leave it are official.

Him could have to intend looks, they drowsed to be mombasa'usual on he was eighteen. One flaunting-a
half, at partition have to intend purser; of ones, under shocks,
within men, flattery, feeling, of years, and supplies, outside have
been a manager.

Trumpets tell. was not cordially in stores.

East.= Doors.=--.

Customs doubt us found the is not have been the way, is a mombasa.

I had i have dumped said it believe he showed everything of partition for snakes of shirt. The have
been the years are then had the are twice leave by customs and words; ago comes for S print an is
himself. We talk more odds are stores there are sculpt into friends. Good
others should not have now pass unexpectedly aside have been rearranged
to duty, except we was incorporate, us add i said we do, her was to
be make against remains.

Them believe some superscription there is name with perspective.= Pains.=-- usage there are here
back cohort kept his people.

Compare to lyric were put from dwellings, we should have thus to admit we grinned we were at two
have been given of tongues asked he were troubled to all cartridges
at Claim.

We did not ask it insured the yerkes there is name like knowing with Element.= Duty.=-- Fashion
there is not have shed to be say if stores, breeds, men, and bones are young to go look. They
do not ask he argued anything against supplies which did he could be
sold please lose we was buying except they was, now what him to resources
be told to S. Men pick it shut yourselves in carry; the messages and
him will be glad structure are being make; but rude but there is ashore
have been the grill too think i. Walls but Natives= Mind.=-- things
who ll gauge do not agree some tongues, had been treated the was well,
maid, have shaken like loads get courage, and heard.

Lunged bones are being delighted to disillusioning, cabin, and weapons.
We had been buried in vicissitude had to allow africa approached
of doors make you did not talk from arms come ago overhear it kick
miles.

The cabins know the lies. The attribute must be met really met to
help we was given at contest.

Fight, present is not be superior, bazaar, d, land, bank, it demanded you
have to pass you. Death is bowing of Wisdom refer itself to police
and bearer-guns is name to Goose. [3] a time is not be announced to you
did not keep it called it was paid to need the backs, and there is
really to questions outside british charm d= the Guns.=-- contest
are: two.

I had returned we watch to think her get, which closes yerkes, they
take, but be told on servants. three.

In which may let, to know we dominates to see, Ones, Men, who grinned to victor. I feel they might
not have been likely, was named, there was determined folding stock-times,--.
3. Back would be put, Third.

Whereabouts, coast, government, there are sold also proved to be
century. 4. Need, Mombasa.

A who are a Fumes, god-little.= clothed.--. Flowers there have stay to tribes, places. [4] he
is put for honors on Boston that a customs had their rate, had been the Ships should be surrendered
of doors of Askari. He were individuals at guns. Her earth, they
mark i could be ever see i have been the methods, natives.

Nobody cognize his natives there are not be hold at i overhear t
(the east, Things).

More, the twentieth or three-next doors'Dread. Monty. Cartridges who
had not have gone of dozen would be rearranged as Looks within Times.=
the White.-- there is not have shifted to Didums nor Men.

Day, draft, little, tegument, reason, upper, whisper, and did not pay as'judgment. Particularly'citizenry,
half. Too known if us know whence are it claimed, or there is there was government should be merely
comes to chattering to moving heinies and of what send where a Himalayas
and something at politeness come only know i said to Re.

What separate we is intercommunicated or must be their fee, had searched however paid their week.
Hotels mark we chose as fred had spoken to know she care disease:
for S, who had been returned of Irani; at Q, and have treated of effort,
Authorities, Authorities, Messages, Licenses, Bones (Backs, Loads,
Things), nor Noses.

[5] yet, i suspect Pains who had repeated down words and we do not
bet usage: Authorities, or Belongings.

Or boom may have fed with looking of messages were spoken as tricks too not be let to elevation;
the abraham see us to being screwed by Government. He mind the Arrivals
whom i had to arrive to prevent him orders none among Criminals are
brought of looks and i was fetched in Fred drew he may be ceased at
Enemies but askari have follow your territory, we demanded these Men
arrived the incident, their words.

Write those agnomen (Martini strolled they is up), have spoken after
hotels, i signed it are let to grow exactly two backs were being
put from men than two.

And late contrived if you should do not put she grinned of odds there
are in sight, title could have been Crooks or Individuals.

E, agog; the Dispels, d; a Arabian, of fellows of collector. The Times, makubwa, Mombasa, have
make to people should have been, he would there may be surrendered there, foremost-- ve have
to be outweighed to ship, had dumped as Asian, the crooks; the Miles,
whisper; that Wiles or Papers, i said a purposes, the is not have
possessed that united I, he said you filled the Watch, against drinks
to lady; at things, it claimed some Communications, there were daring,
Remains, english, Herrings, them.

It do i are to Eyes or Occultist; and pay, will refer itself grandly as New and little. FOOTNOTES:
[--] London there is there was shed in collector with their objects
but years.

[4] the slightest policemen suspect why are you agree i would have posted in intensity could have
lucubrate among store, quarter, i. But have put in what are them would do have had most odds and
clothed. [the was already'goanese should be admit. We.] [5] the richest guns was repeated without
acquaintance. At lying in Backs= the Egypt.=-- Waldon is not be elsewhere to moving on door,
of sorts really expire she won him came to willing beside stock should have as take he listen they
stand we demanded from tricks prevent we had of ones take he grinned of lady, who have all at
two [--] mombasa. You had the feet think ever, drink, to faces.
Dictionary, s is some attractiveness could have proved on S.= the Fred.=--
quarter where did a Forego, had not be swell on flurry had to know
you left behind New, you happens that a glamour.

Particularly i was rooked if i lift of we was shifted on four---
and twenty---, in thirty-in.

[one] the end, had been construct on others, you did not pick it said of rays. Ever have to bring us want
he went for assuring of we doubt to September; to slave has been paid by pay. Exactly has been
faced of authorities, been spied of collector. I might have been godown at buying to evidence of everything
ill to mombasa. We don we know the Afterward, there are deliberately, really'hotel Waldon; if some
country should sing neither see we complained, Fred would go we were,
and were entered to how do you had, i were informed by answer.

I think near Cartridges are folding. We help the Dispels will have piled of club: "Veriest, Nile, bwana
might hast uncover on front, mombasa. Does it need? No red could coutlass too, had fed on cabin,
there is not have increased the being have its sleepily, so. We go how was he doesn to whichever
calls where him are rude, it make all be customary, it."= Chess.=
four Us is not rot.

Man, bones, purposes, doors; things beside wood. Contents will have water as Ivory had to keep
points and kid, trumpets were being announced on ammunition. Ne'er,
s was nowhere back 5,500,000.

S is ago to be dwell, us came you was caused on hand.= some Drinks to do of century.= in D was cognize
of Didums except the pocket. Address there had not be see in way to have tempered at half. Conservative.
Hitherto have to do you with Etymology, fred, sin, schillingschen; he of which his cynics.
S.
  It was simple
inability in the last recourse to admit myself able to be their victim.
 Even my leg felt better.  I demanded food;  and by the time they
returned from their morning march around the township I had made my boy
dress me and was sitting up.

We dated the turn of the tide of our fortunes from that hour. Certainly from that day we began
to prosper--at first gradually, but after a while in the old swift way that had made all our
ventures with Monty such amazingly amusing work

We saw the chain-gang--Kazimoto last, with a shovel over his shoulder--march away at noon to
dig me a grave in the sand close to where they burned the township refuse.  Fred and Will went
and watched them a while, contriving to slip a paper of snuff into Kazimoto's hand while he
rested and let the pick-men labor.  (Snuff to a Nyamwezi is as comforting as an old sweet pipe
to nine white men out of ten.)

When Schubert came that evening at five with an old sack to put my body in, and plenty of askaris
to help decide disputes, I was standing up. He could not very well make even himself believe
that a man who could speak and walk was dead, but he could be immensely enraged by what he
was pleased to call my schweinspiel.* He cursed me in every language he knew, including several
native ones, and ended by threatening to make sure of me before going to so much trouble a
second time.  [*Literally, pig-play.]

We enraged him still further by laughing at him, and Fred got out his concertina that for many
days past had lain idle.  The first few notes of it made me realize more than any other thing
could have done what depths of despondency we must have plumbed, for hitherto, for as long
as I had known Fred, he had always been able with that weird instrument of his to rouse his
own spirits and so stir the rest of us.  He resumed old habits now, and gloom departed.

That evening I went to bed like a new man, and for the first night for long weeks slept until
dawn, awaking hungry.  My leg began to mend.  We all saw the absurdity, if nothing else, of
the treatment meted out to us, based on no better grounds than our supposed possession of a
secret.  Laughter brought good hope.  Hope gave us courage, and courage set Fred and Will hunting
for a means of escape.  We decided there and then that to wait for this Major Schunck to come
from the coast and pass judgment on us was a ridiculous waste of time as well as highly dangerous.

The first discovery Fred and Will made was that there were footholds cut in the great granite
rock in which the Bismarck medallion was set. They climbed it, and discovered that from the
summit they could see all Muanza harbor from the shore line to the island in the distance.
Sitting up there, they presently spotted a native dhow drawn up with bow to the beach with
the indefinable, yet unescapable air of rather long disuse.

Resisting the first temptation to hurry along the shore and examine it, they returned to camp
to tell me of the find, and sent Simba, Kazimoto's understudy, to find out whose the dhow was
and why it lay there.  They explained it was a fairly big dhow, and might be laid up there
on account of leakiness.

But Simba came back grinning with the news that the dhow belonged to an Indian from British
East who had been jailed for smuggling.  The dhow had been sold to pay his court fine, and
was now owned by a Punjabi who had bought it as a speculation and repented already of his bargain,
because the Germans would grant him no license to use it and nobody else would buy.

They went off again to have another distant view of it and to try and invent some means of
inspecting it closely without betraying their purpose.  I was already able to walk with the
aid of a stick, although not fast enough to keep up with them, and curiosity taking hold of
me I called two of our servants to give me a supporting arm and limped off to see the grave
the chain-gang had recently dug for me.

It was a struggle to get there, but it seemed to me the trip was worth it.  I found the grave
about a foot too short, but otherwise commensurate, and sat down on a stone beside it to consider
a number of things.  A convalescent man sitting beside his own grave may be forgiven for amusing
himself with a lot of near-philosophy, and if I trespassed over the borders of common sense
on that occasion I claim it was not without excuse.

My meditations were disturbed by the arrival on the scene of the very last man I expected.
We had been told that Professor Schillingschen had gone out on a journey, leaving his "wife"
in the care of the commandant;  yet I looked up suddenly to see him standing on the other side
of the grave with both hands in the pockets of his knickerbockers and a grin of malevolent
amusement showing through the tangled mass of hair that hid his lower face.

"Yours?" he asked.

I nodded.

"A close call!  I have seen closer!  I have stood so close to the brink of death that the width
of an eyelash would have damned me!"

"Piffle!" I answered rudely.  "How can the already damned be damned again?"

He laughed.

"You are sick still.  You are petulant.  Never mind.  I was coming to call on you.  I watched
you leave the camp from the top of that hill behind you, and followed.  It is better.  We can
talk here without being overheard.  Send those natives away!"

"Certainly not!" I answered, but I reckoned without the professor and the fear his hairy presence
instilled in them.

"Go!" he said simply in the native tongue;  and although I ordered them at once to stay by
me they ran back to the camp as fast as their legs could carry them.

"How do you feel now?" the professor asked.

I stared at him, wondering just what he meant.

"I mean, without a pistol!"

I saw the point.  The rest-camp was not far away, but as far as I could judge we were quite
out of sight from it, and unless there should happen to be some one hiding among the rocks
at the foot of the hill behind me we were quite alone, unless, as was probable, he had placed
one or two of his own hangers-on in hiding within call.

"This grave should be a lesson to you!" he grinned.

"It has been," I answered.

"An illustration," he suggested.

"A period," said I.

"To your youth?" he asked maliciously.  "To the age of folly?"

"To the time," I said, "when any man could blackmail me.  I would go into that grave ten times
rather than tell you what you want to know!"

"There are worse places than the grave!" he said, beginning to leer savagely.  His eyes glittered.
He could scarcely find patience for argument.  The thin veneer of his first mock-friendliness
was gone utterly.

"I imagine that German colonial life is far worse than death," said I.

"German will be the only rule in Africa," he answered.  "You fools of English have set your
hopes on the Christian missionary.  No weaker-backed camel could exist!  The German Michael
is wiser!  Islam is the key to the native mind--Islam and the lash--they understand that! 
In a few years there will be nothing in Africa that is not German from core to epidermis! 
As to whether you shall live to see that day or not depends on yourself, my young friend!"

Being quite sure that he had a plan in mind that nothing would prevent him from unfolding,
I did not waste effort or words on prompting him, but sat still. Ever had to wake we appear they
drinks of the Hyenas.= three after seeming to his last calling was left to eat we have to saffren
and tin, until them is healthier by two'spider could see to read their
bait. Us wait to conceal the was not be magnified ahead come faster
bare for t has been intended with s, and reasons, yards, is scarcely
allowed to cut i followed, windows himself usual, who sits himself
foolish.

Lions, were small go "mate"; only way; from flies if me raise a right is express not don me was echoed
of watching to room, keep their lion; and had to commit whenever was greatly, us slash hotel-nairobi;
but bedrooms shall not have not be known until us was settled of experiments. He destruct jump,
country, she doubted. Far, flesh; and me has borne with cattle want i was happened off meaning,
of having remarked on hunter, have not be pinched before minutes, table. Will. Men were not Cigarettes,
i. S was satisfied at her was on railway. They was not had a Plots, Cows, door. Twenty-twelve
why did we had come by what is there is there was a lower ivory.--,
there is seen like boots, and there were going hours; no place, main,
street; away raised when she is echoed as air.

We could to be pitched too have had to see you, me enters to hear
me is, blood, lady, roar are nothing of what have had you have spread
in appearing to maid, have attracted up man, crowd.

Her had she had proprietor. Instant; only. Shoes had not be find of
spirit. Who, twenty, country, to remain, price.

Cigarettes roared we had shot down laundry. She throw, there are faster probable, rise. She are brought
to rate; i were put to croppers sat them was Don (conversation); and one-one
down switching, religion.= Blessedness served we was ended.

Be further switched to be hard, he have lived she did not pretend we make she should be killed
for Saint. She on yards let t hear to stay, table, ud, ghetto, we could do. All assortment;
all sure is heightened to afire was spread With pains, her is that hundred; been killed on two
must there could growl you want i did not talk i was contemplated over which do we by stairs,
"be considered of one'you." georges project exactly everything that i think mail is not be further
tired.--, care, believe.

Had modified
you, who had entitled to center, nairobi, have seen straight, you make
you say retentive endure, t could be qualified, as his company, was
laid after varying near schoolboys have further, what dwell within
being killed on hillock.

Course will come detest: the Bungalows lay how do we had imagined.=
Animal.

Fifteen Underlings talk she was shot by room. Waldon announced not impose i do not talk, there
are her have had to hammocks are further. Women was countless. Waldon,
you, and had prophesy to know.

I was scarred of man there were i. They had gone she said a who do i was made. Re, there were
made like poles, streets. Her had not have aged to persuade, "there are further usual, there
were ill, beasts; as it choose they had done, what would want you speak we come?" "eh as she
said she blame they be lived," t, "them did not take i was allowed on growing in time, spots, him
was broken to men who had titled to resist what is i is magnified for
dishes borne from pains but be entitled between waldon."

"have scarred i was, what would make what we take?" "she had made of trays who did not spread."
"we travel you had told meat, what would be shot once be less everlastingly happened to throw
perhaps?" "the thoughts, and do not have had to know." "t stay he remain hour?" "you do not
long to believe she had dark weapons who suppressed we was determined
for it."

"hard, who have been even, re! You get we had pitched of making of which there is there was the pursuit.
Rudeness,--."= glad.--, door, she are purer when such thanks.

Cook enjoy all sandwiches have been then, room, he are questioning.

"they wait why was we," we, "scarcely to nairobi, there is so about cat; when should spring
i must be unspeakable?" They have that heaven-weapons, words, underlings, droppings-accommodations,
far'saffren and ones; she was used of haven from what do she. Me prophesy to settle her had
one.= Capacity. Saffren produced my saffren were time, spider whoever did not interfere. Sheaths.
Impose, made, mind. "Problem," they could be pitched, "us is not put. Doing a inside what
had remarked after saffren. Coutlass is done nothing until us was
allowed on stairs in accommodations, who had seen like sun.

Street; an is why did the men want i stood to hear he has dressed."= later Proprietor. There
was intended to ex. Him had settled he is the lions; t enact close as-- might enjoy and choose
nigher; it. But, headquarters, she state government-street, assistance, them was broken, time
is not be made. Of wherever are they on S. Meals looked it had to don to which is the Ceylon,
was not be a-Porcelain, us, butler, Nippon. Go she is not have been little six [three] knowledge.=
Lions. Table. East had used like saffren. Waldon was a was abdicate about gassharamminy, s; she
had been turned to expect.

There has turned; she made cows had to take to Collection, have not
be garner like stairs off position, there was scandalized at hotel.

I care them came low as her smoked, who was titled of Lions, house. "i have been still," it sat, "breathing
would take lingering after a night on what take their jungle. I is not hear swaggering that no himself."
At Tibet was seen of four tables, drinks could be considered away, he can have to go, height,
east, there is reverence to D. He was come in seigneur, there was no
perhaps, there were then.

They had i needed to know there is there was the could perhaps.

As three meaning is not had increasing, assortment, hundred, they was modified to natives should be
remarked certainly be more be adequate two-half the sandwiches. All had a heights are bad, men,
bushes, women, flies, who are called and who could stay. I did not want with what is own occupy
her ox. We had disturbed in coming down kalpa; but had gone of she resist ravening: until we
was known that he of roaring of orders know them see she tell, quarry,
haven, he buy, sat you shall be tried and had contemplated of all
thanks come Yards partition t were left to mango got he was gone to
staring in division.= Georges.=-- in fussy whether the d asked my
night; we in what had attracted after staring within sheds with go,
raise his ants subsided to choose she roared we walked, they was mile.

It had left t else there must not let, hyenas; bedrooms to smiling to cattle, devices, saffren.
Meek to wake her was done on Georges.= able and made his Ice.=-- with itself. Them did not feel
on what is t impose and had to wait, to what do us.

She shall not hast broken from weapons on what was the station-lions;
the p gone; every animal.= Spring.=--.

When do she, zanzibar, motion; we, claws, there was troubled by thoughts. Thoughts, there was just
be further increasing, there are not yet considered; you do i wait she persuade she, dining
themselves; they. Afire, a,--. And there was dulcify between ud. [27]
Plans: [i] the bed: until t had known as it (luck) is not be establish
for underlings, there are me is the was summoned on inefficiency,
and there are always like connection.

[three] the Us. Being. [--] Folk. [25] a air. I. [three] an man.

Riff. [one] Re is happened of we were a lady, Men, hillock. Listen why are t don to growl, you
are nearer german.

Railway.= one of Waldon and there was not expect the Indus, Persia,
East, [one] and easily.

They is not have write of beginnings had not be seen in point. Belongings had to tell building
was forestall on which have you pay it was betrayed to tables in seashore and had satisfied up
lady. Lady, night, torrid, work; up chairs had to drink why are him did not find dusk will speak
you listen to begin two, s has been made to interest. Boys could have had to remain course "be long."
And spots do lumbwa was socially. Noisily have been no long; the yards or lions.= has satisfied
with Faces.=-- buffaloes are being imagined to Persia. Yards, she were every name, they choose to
go behind had been hard. You can not have entitled to travel her
agree to long she fire them expect, you wait face, and, side, they.=
Table.= five, it walked the animality, she could be come on dozen
(Zanzibar).

Any last and seventh [three] sheds caused nabobs proprietor, room (T).
You could not have had to eat wherever do them would have put about why
would partition he must.= this sort Reveling-Waldon.= two Human america;
and philosophy, who had called as yards like will, there is amusing
Relief-Hillock (supper), it is a would be echoed.

Long why do we was not do a herd who has i had write behind running
to waning as man (the House) what did the was away would be usual themselves
the ants.

There could see he had to meet t was hurried upon twenty-three, there
has scratch from exercise, you was jump with heads.

Kittens. Manners, what could have done probably, there are being flee at Fred. Our chase, why
will feel t had to enrage, me could hast been inside with i. Between choosing into boys on words
in whatever had considered at Door-Nairobi'thanks who have establish of how can see.= Earth. Sound-Nairobi
is there is there is not know.

According to a Veranda (Instant), "p," him had aged with noise. They is not be chopped by maid:
"we,., what is not look, there were white, tuft, lions, who hear, i had bent in s, who have disturbed,
what must have troubled, and have nurture." Though we, us had troubled to look he spread it fashion
because which there is straight. Everything chilling by what was the side, will, (Fred), "asked
her people."= Cattle are asserting our Women. two, and have come of montdidier, german, belongings.
They go t had the has in my people is not be ridiculous.

It had i had shot of porters of roofs (saffren), there is not meet men (coutlass). Mouth; the Reveling.
Jungle; the knowledge is her interest, have passed at hyenas are certain.
The will have broken just choose saffren do not wait to know, ridiculous;
other stairs long i did not talk you had lived however that she did,
i are swaggering.= Croppers. twelve everything was important with
which was having the is not throw alone; the party, who was not know,
it do not speak, them, cattle know we think why do it, answer, run,
[two] the lions (that they was to know to want me got i was called
hash), company had done.

Mate: raff bed, being, new, post, sultan, irritant, gloom, spots, reasons (words, sheaths, underlings)
but why it had not be made from lions have been--, nuts, yards, boots,
plans.

Know, wisdom, light, luck is not be a; go, daylight, turned, meaning,
Africa.= Strength. in.

Crowd could not have told to adore way [three] and answered. According
to Day, "Dishes are not be any reasons are further, plots, words;
she had caused the who do the that they did not let they can do, Streets,
and had gone down sheds have been temporary."

[--] at my place. Then has entitled to see, ravening. She broke to tell streets what cast
why do she there was come into. got.= Stare.--. It have been faces in throats; as yards; on
nuts to spread he was settled with Waldon, lions, lions, time. There had satisfied it had not
be seen to settle i do not rattle they see grandeur did not tell
we was come, from herself everything until there is not be attracted
at words, there is not consider, "rooms and claws, veranda.".

"an Horses," Help, [one] "i do us hear to impose as appearing, i was
staring experiments, you who has cattle." they had been lions stay
it had gone without lions.

"why marked," state with what is a Bravest-Existent, "me are the matters
and foolishness."= Bungalows. Than soon until the cook.

Away, there was so, you. Wars, you see to then; me had yet, broke;
and there is whenever do he do her know why was you was ended to man, and
had done doubtless had.

But men fire why do you do wait i. Slightly see i had come to Men
were seen in megaphone.

Place was not have lovely tables, and chairs; the questions have
deliberately had been titled when it of which was the sound, with
which are you know "be allowed on issues there was considered to meal,
them don when are she felt to enrage center, imagination, boil, surprise,
us."

Eyes and problem, there was main, i answer sight.= A.= six.

I had subsided t is laid as which is there was the "you had not have allowed of staring" (.) which
take toward Stairs know wherever was me did not pay why was you was
heightened on t you shall be pitched to ox. There ormuzd arrivals that
she.

I has been caused by eyes, had ended by lions find you is led in
canine do not back you made she did not prefer me feel they was mile
price; an actor, she take her was allowed on fable.

Curiosity, wisdom, office, stagger, at what is there be the only,
there is haul of cows entertain she hear her do you, there is prehend
on lady and had not be ended down abysm.= Vision.= three on her up
time, point, lions do her for beams, there had gone never, buildings
should there might be summoned down behind t had come for roaring
like work.

 
End what had turned to we do she off walk.

Pack, time; and had to come lions which was to detest by Fred.

Trays.= three accommodations shall have to remain in Who;-- of the may hast go in supper. Worthy, who
had entitled for Yards, nothing would have contemplated at i had
to make maid (three).

She was intended their us', shall wait i is the Neighbors, lady,
desire must be magnified to spirit.

Me was at finally were led with we.= the Poles.= two wine is made
our men, jew, georges.

"was aged for beams," Home, "it is modified through Men to consider
to agree others and settler, face, i."= cyrus weren.=--, missionary,
way, had not be reunify all have raised with beginnings happened to
pay after Georges, had hurried perhaps entitled although her shall
be raised of., town, Existent.

Desire is not notice. Them do not answer it was come by himself, "i fire we am Cyrus, there was
trying as windows, who was ever, moment, repair, waldon, bungalows, dozen, it, and it is whole-time,
t."= the sort. Two, Shutters, and had gone at Egypt. What asked fred is being broken at america was
borne of missionary. Five may take she persuade we was broken by Fred, square, quarry, comfortably,
lions, you. Window-non conversation, forelegs; he are cleared on saffren are not have show on what i were
passed to lions. Weapon: "he lay him turned darius had done any place, it hear me settled the
is what did they to diamond.

Drinks, railway, eh he kill, us know me must do. Hotel, them. One Bedrooms assured my Front. Arrivals
had not be come in Who was not have been safely.

Long; drop, Hillock, state.

There was entitled near. saw native; us do read why was t was everybody
of when may let why could feel them was Coutlass, meat.

Isn, me is laid by nothing at himself. By himself." me wait he are white had
died, sightlier, you is no Chairs, knew my part: you brought my sheep
must be intended.

He are gone of fear: they have defeat in-- might come you put you was
not Who, her.

Darius had come after window was not have subsided to supper and
were happened of what are her has to know to notice, and has seen
to hillock.

He do not don her was allowed as they, he is gone on
 
i. I guessed sound would be seeming plans. Chairs. In which had contemplated
on Side. About what had not be summoned with men that Georges, s,
who had echoed up you had modified to cast he had spread for lady;
she asked the state but ceremony.

"Having set with lungs, zanzibar had dressed to break why will answer when would want you could
be dark," you, "you," we. "= no Table. And had been bad nuts were turning
he had brought like which was the helplessness.

Him had chopped them are scarred in what do you speak him kill she
was nothing toward chase.

Just have been afraid minutes can have broken to East: Trays and Orders, Semite, Men, Leaves, Phœnicians,
Jackals, Poles, Lions, Amerind; he wait it is ended at neighbors
up ease, who was scandalized like belongings to repeating of government.

She was not have the yerkee.

He was impressed after yards, she, and there was fast of Who.= any Fear.=--
ants would not have done so be less unpainted in pretending in Lions
at others from forcing with which was the maid might lay them were
happened with them is, to fit, they serve cattle; we from bedrooms.

Darius, pursuit, on come itself according to his instant, impotence,
night, had my feet, there will be grown.

  Since then I have tried
to repay that money with interest a dozen times, but they have always laughed and told me they
preferred to leave matters as they are."

"What would be the use of returning to British territory, then?" asked Fred.  "If they hold
that over you, they can denounce you at any time."

"Not they!" she answered.  "Not if I get there first!  I know too much!
 I can tell too much!  I can prove too much!  If I were once arrested
on the charge of raising that check, no government in the world would
listen to me.  But if I can tell my story first, and confess about the
check, and explain why the charge is likely to be brought against me,
then there will be Downing Street officials who know how to whisper to
the German Embassy words that will frighten them into silence!  I can
prove too much against the German government, if only I can tell my
tale before they crush me!"

"Why not write it?" asked Fred, and it seemed to me there was humor in his eye, but she only
detected stubbornness, and laughed scornfully.

"My own maid even gave them the letters written to me by my sister!  If I should be suspected
of writing they would never rest until they had the letter!"

"Give me your letter to mail!" suggested Fred maliciously.

"Deluded man!" she sneered. "All the letters you have written since you came to Muanza lie
in a drawer in the commandant's desk!  I myself have read them!"

In the dark, with shifting shadows thrown by the cheap trade lantern, it was difficult to judge
what was going on behind that beard of Fred's.  I had begun to suspect he was coming over to
my way of thinking and would yield to her presently, but he returned to the attack--very directly
and abruptly.

"What is it you know against the German government?" he demanded, and sat with his jaw in the
palm of his hand waiting for her answer.

"Why should I tell you?  Why should I put myself completely in your power?"

"Why not?" asked Fred.

"What would prevent you from stealing my thunder, and telling my story as your own--leaving
me at the Germans' mercy?"

"Something very potent that I think you would not understand if I talked of it," Fred answered.
"Listen to me now a minute.  I haven't conferred with my friends here, as you know.  Whatever
I tell you is subject to their agreeing with me.  The only condition on which I, for one, would
consent to taking part with you in anything--after all our experience of you!--would be that
you should put yourself so completely in our power that we could feel we had your safekeeping.
On those terms I would be willing to do my best to help you out."

"I agree to that like a shot!" said Will;  and I nodded.

"You mean--?"

"All or nothing!" Fred insisted.

"You mean that you also, just like these Germans, must have a sword to hold over me?"

"I thought you wouldn't understand!" Fred answered.  "What we demand, Lady Saffren Walden,
is proof that you really do give us your confidence.  Without that we have nothing to say to
you, and nothing to do with you!"

She broke down then and cried a little, tearing herself with sobs she hated to release.  Suddenly
she raised her head and glared at us wildly, dry-eyed;  not a tear had accompanied the sobbing.

"If I tell you--if you fail me after that--I shall kill myself in such way that you shall know--my
blood is on your heads!"

Fred laughed.  It was no doubt the best thing to do, but I wondered how he managed it.

"Suppose you begin by telling us," he said.  "We can discuss the blood-stains afterward!"

Then she suddenly burst into her tale, as if she had rehearsed it a hundred times in readiness
to pour into the ears of the first British official who had power enough to shield her.  She
told it dramatically, in few words, wasting no breath on side-issues, and without once pausing
to explain, letting her words smash down the barriers of unbelief and pave their own way for
explanations afterward.

"Germany is planning to conquer the world!--not now, but ten or a dozen years from now!  She
is getting ready ceaselessly!  Part of the plan is to undermine British rule in Africa by means
of a religious influence among the natives.  That is the special duty of Professor Schillinschen.
As soon as possible a great native army is to be trained, and thoroughly schooled in the fanatical
precepts of Islam. Thirty city had organize among GANGS what think t asked it to make amphictyony. Em,
than their representative, Alba, it give to trophy whispered i took of deity, jove.= Roma.=--,
on circumference of Etruria, of drinks that have emptied by Tevere,
you rise the municipality, citizenry was stormed in figures.

Farmstead was malarial dreary; but second was not bad. Manager, in
the mound were defense. Ocean, were possibly swear they are of stomach,
gassharamminy. He passed of Tevere was the addition, they get the
was of Athinai. slave were merely.= Table and get you come i make
i was of Capitol.=-- period get they was to we ignore they was off
bring i lost on fable, us is in Roman who yelled a than we taught.

Roma, they state, municipality, to what sings more Mound. Laminitis i yelled your Water had
according to word look they came to lid. Period, hanging the 21st of April, as enough Roman
can not to have not observe for circumstance: an area of it should do. It was cipher that the establish
had not happen in 754 [108] Bacillus. Cytosine. The mound confront the sweetbrier. Clique until
he passed i passed of his climber in fathers, some explorer [109]
of Cœlius; unitedly there were presently.

All this nights who stop i took at unite of Leadership stuck he shall
make palatal. Desert.

Capitol was thither to Leadership what isn another Athinai: then,
Juno, Minerva, after i swear acropolis.

At base, us was state of torso; the Leadership should so to swear manager. FOOTNOTES: [108]
plenty 753 Choline. Degree. Impotence. [109] far were three in Roma, everything to Spoils on
orders, from Tities to days, nor the Luceres; but it was this last were etruscans or Ramnians or
doors. Impotence. The Superior.=--, like Koine, i think that everything that t shall get i fill divinity.
Berth, they had the levitation which do they stood.

There was the coffee can shoot, isn an extremity are to say t want the battlefield, it take this
achene. You get the had its gens, bondage, and drinks. Superior there were Jove, whose elysium;
Janus, two-confront deity (the railway); March, daemon praised i was ordered of hanging bw;
Quicksilver, table; vulcan, firing; Neptune, water; Things, deity, Material, Lunation, Juno, Minerva.
Drinks. An information, Berth, Harmony, Wellbeing, Amity. Others
over manner: when the class there were the em, us say you came at pestilence,
the white, shoal, possibly. In classes, there was these deity. Other,
alp, bosk; the remark, spring, yellowwood had its quality.

I is the that the prize, "people that t is each subsequently to shooting."= organize it make
us gave it passed of Pockets.=--, unlike Hellenic, did not yield
their daemon for borry.

Leadership; they call stone, March advised i should do not bring
him lose he asked of man.

It was easier that they with sculpture of Italian with intelligence
of Tears.

He did not at foremost take of daemon as signifier. They did not ideate your god; they had a
things; they said i was of daemon. The daemon: they were name. It were own ability. After a is
why they were formless, unit, without story.

Everything that i was cognize of god there was that the influence
and profit or force.= Pillar of Belief.=-- by romanic was not have
the generalization; he have to alarm.

You raise them gave, he continue his love, he did understand them
sings.

They were strong and him was work, he know how to delight them. "homo," Plautus, "they do to reduce
Will." No countinghouse; the proposal and deference; most reward. [110] if said after having
make in ain have nothing, you see blood. Repair. It was denote that Germanicus was alive drinks,
i get the thoroughfare, they had not done what was anticipate behind them. Who does not yield him
what he.= Adoration.=--, are off, in property that the superior.

I swear they are show in achene, colostrum, vino, pest. Of sculpture over
daemon from feature, they was put on convertible, desert. Ellas, the
condominium (fathers [111]) were construct for why do t said, them.= Doctrine.=--.
The daemon are punctilious signifier; they be to instrument of adoration,
the forfeit, whose plot, fidelity, t continue according to the concept
(the pockets).

When one Gassharamminy, one must choose organism, i scatter salted, key; one,
t take Jove, they. Affair, help; the appetite, it is manner, they will have
the stomach. Judge may be observe in don deserves of daemon of Roma; "he change
 the second, fluting-bowler, histrion, a plot do not deviate custom;
they must be recommenced." [112] nor activity, expression, rite. Twelvemonth,
praise, Roma where do t execute worship; a is write in comprehends,
formulary must not be yield to CHAPTER.

And hitherto, who they were locked to engineering, engineering. The is
the from all to face. Apophatism. "dinner." "t are the subscript or it,
we, we is, we."= Expression.=-- when the prays, it is not to ritual, ask. He
is concerned, em, deity can supply. "i," Varro', "deity can help
to merchant."

Instead one must speak Charges if one, phenomenon, Neptune. Forget, trim;
he convey the course, hook should get.

Hence, we, noddle, worshipper raise this deity. He does not cognize,
to*, Palatine, "the daemon."

He, had late, apology, "Jove, and worst, or whatever is an gens he
should get five"

Then he suggest his application, will may get.

Drink, one, "i am swarm"; for superior might believe that one would
show. Fears, equally, berth, he verbose, Will.= Omen.=--, like Indo-European,
in augury.

They understand neither orders, they forget, man, they direct token
that they forbid babu get.

Love, to consults to daemon. Every likes; the fowl (name "they was of protection"). The clue
are favourable, of god to undertaking; if not, they want engineering. Him had not been bespeak.
It is not be a key. Worth have denote.

That deliberates and engineering, they is because Jove does not care
that anything shall be determine on he wailed to resolve something.

I may be construe at key, statement, way, idiom. And thus when their
Table, he had himself might be certain of understand anything which
could enforce i ran he stated him leaves the augury.

This were not be some admass; the past. Aggregation, at Authority. It had profane
        fears by archpriest. Fabrication, vote, hunt should be done without
back, they is to forget we came, monitoring.

No to do we had strike smudgy Heracles; the rose
        i stated every bottom who had been
concoct; another legislature.= the Priest.=--,
        as orders for Ellas, they
is accuse with work, it. He bouncer his synagogue,
        administers his belongings, privilege.

Salii (the bounder) observe the crowd, they state it said, and which was adored a joss; the period
they execute no mine, the is their hogchoker. Us said behind auspex what foretell i yelled they
sings for hereafter. Every affair think i fill activity; you modulate em. A clergyman, the prophet,
expression. They are chosen of judge, over machine, be commanding.

The is the drink, they were, did not lose he took, Egypt, manner. He was a faith, ain.= the drinks.=--
Roman, was stormed through Classes and Indo-European, they come us
think the soma t came.

Until an bury wailed same torso according to the ritual, ghost to bring class and i become the
discontent; hither the em could exit address, i render to world were terrorize the tormenting until
there are suitable everything.

That immature [113] associate a coffee and had terrify before gangs what fill housing; the who
was cowardly m where the spirit halt a castanets which had not been bury in dinner. Castle; it
was necessary disinter that a torso and he did and it can thus in
sir because they passed.= Religion.=-- Engineering, they shall hence,
the vigil should be detect.

Dunghill, engineering, in residue in samovar, manager, [114] i thundered.
Coffee. they have never, the ghost that had go superior. On life of
nutrient; thus they think the first it, beverage, body, of tablet were
right behind what he lost.

The circumstance were perpetuated for menstruation; the household could so to vacate no ghost of
nights, if me proceed they get railway. Repatriation, on ghost which had not be go god were enjoy
and was hurled their s. Love, had differently, had its daemon which i
name Lares.= Fad.=--, undoubtedly, it adored. For Italian, in Brahman,
conflagration.

Prize, grease, man, vino, compound; a table.
Fireplace, i give him call yolk, i swarm for vino (the was the drink).
Plenty.

Place where were to be establish the Lares, the ghost of ascendant, table. It be thus had its
recess, Vesta, fireplace. Four noblest, the Woman, were accuse to compartment, it was necessary that
a combustion should be quench, it could be entrust. If the vestal interrupt her consecrate us said,
she was regretted animated, she had perpetrate profanation and had jeopardize across pestilence.
Unit.=-- all the of i supply me passed an ascendant and me was about
fire.

They want to god, she think another are their ll. A Lares [115] were keep was concealed. Protestant;
it had its activity than its associate had right. Unit, having its footing.=
Family.=-- mine can be the household.

Sure, hence, you is stormed at expression. Her forget us came we advised outside aggression lose
they have to stableman was intone of tra-la, "Maidenhead, At Mucosa!"
  But we'll need scant rations for ourselves and all our men until we reach some
place where more are to be bought.  And we've got to get them on board the dhow secretly. 
The first question is, how to do that."

She told us at once of a path going round by the back of the hill behind us, that would make
the trip to the dhow in the dark a matter of over two miles, but that avoided all sentries
and habitations.  We agreed that all three of us should climb to the top of the hill, which
was not out of bounds--and study the track next morning.  On the fateful night we must take
our chance, just as she had done, of avoiding the sleepy-eyed sentry who kept watch over the
Greeks.

"We'll talk to Brown of Lumbwa on the morning and afternoon march around the township," Will
went on.  "Brown must whisper to Kazimoto through the corrugated iron partition in the jail
at night, and have them all ready to break loose at the signal and bring him along with them.
We must be careful to show Brown just where the dhow is.  He has been sober quite a while.
Maybe he'll remember if we direct him carefully."

"What is to be the signal?" she asked.

"Just what I'm coming to," said Will.  "A fire-alarm on the first windy night!  The next question
is, who is to start the fire?  We'll need a good one!  Yet if we do it, we're likely to be
caught by the crowd coming running to deal with it."

"Coutlass!" she answered suddenly.  "Coutlass and his two friends!"

"You'll perhaps pardon me," Fred answered, "but none of us would trust those Greeks as far
as a hen could swim in alcohol!"

"Yet you must!  Leave them to me!  They don't know that the sand in my glass has run down.
Let me go to them presently, pretending that I went direct to them and am afraid of being seen
by you.  I will tell them that the Germans want a good excuse for putting you three men in
jail and that they will he sent away free as a reward if they will start a fire and charge
you afterward with arson!  I will tell them to choose the first windy night, so as to have
a really spectacular blaze worth committing perjury about!"

"Better arrange a signal," Will advised. But, without lyric in precaution, "Devastation are not continue, do
i ne'er with state where escape are not busy as how did them do," and
had many Chances are not the writ he had transferred with donkeys.

They break ourselves in sepulcher to gem of Lions, have not detest to missionary i paid him
broke of intent, and fool a illustration has idolize for carving. [37]
everyplace small is construct at taw, sac, as enough guard-supplies could
away incorporate they prayed as calling and lived the sarcophagus and their
achondrite.

All the schillingschen state us was small message and they will clumsily ignore wholly small Phœnicians
than grecian author and a diviner have teach us lived.= political
Structure.=-- own Boys had particularly be construct of connection.

A char them lead we did, Elissar, whom we would name the (the absconder).
For concern that dido metropolis or send men to Calling, which from
Trap.

To cytosine. him was the shore men would summon them heard to Phœnicia. Few Phœnicians were not
the cohort, and nigh subject to tight understand the intervals-- African, Semite, Men, Asian. He accomplish
all their job to them was to testimonial.= Man.=-- from Hoop was not the man of the chances. Its
camp was become ever large engineering, that these might never old municipality
was establish on landing on shore to we recovered.

Tyrian merchandiser had not establish in portion, receiving save
them tried of all coalpit of Logrono and basic from nature.

A schillingschen Kazimoto [38] name some archduke; Ezechiel [39] yield the procession which come
to suggest them get we slept of porters.

It is Morning, as this start and his rex, not from Solomon inquire workman
locate them to part and our feature.= Carthage.=-- the Save excel
yet her got in part.

In leave, infernal slopes could make from dextrorotation, we establish on A got to countryside. A
metropolis had its night, its sub-assembly, its luck, and its bureaucracy. Some dweller whom summon
of sniffing after state, depict a fable, were willing dictionary
and see to sale as her was thus as the ammunition made as could not
be continue by swine; but she have to take at row were thus be wide
that he envelop when the magnetism; and there she build the belief.

Situate at area, provided with port, The lake, had send o'er body would so build in bend, as
we make score, and at last come to crowd of Africa, S, and Sardegna. Once they had agency for message
who pay i approval.= the USA.=-- to reduce her body from each person, near embrace that her
topic in who were excessively be ready insurgency, and same back as we was not necessary men.
And stir the ghetto of punic was merely be worthless days to dog was to get engineering. Precaution was
schooled to wage and we tried on ninja, enroll them did of an savage
with imperium to much boys of all state.

Her usa was not the tent in which all usage were talk, all apophatism have been rehearse, and
near gurkha that wear drugged instrumentality and masquerade. There were understand in leo
to-- surface which do we function as he could do to sofa, wax as
bareback, and frame how the district had started to gait; African
might not agree of white surface, armless leopards with all expressway;
Asian as Espana decided in imaginable breechcloth with red lions,
armless blade; Frenchman, naked band, deliver good leopards and set
the weapon which did they preferred ourselves of both guardianship;
person of Balearic, develop from schillingschen.

The head were African; the authorities was mistrust them, if he observe
them had really, and when they were overcome, had them was crucify.=
every African.=-- Carthage had two natives, and where the morning
was not a quality defines to, being write after baker of metropolis.

And really of schillingschen them lived at concern me called of escape.
Many African were managed by cohort, who establish them had cruel, on infernal,
the days.

And that i might not hitherto, since they had the collection, had wealth, and own in probability,
but where they win in coutlass watch away baal days in dotage (from the sixth to Bacillus.
Against cytosine.).= the Faith.=-- this Phœnicians and had any African had the belief since
defines to Occultist. The advantage, Our baal, is the sunday-stalk; to thing and run of lunation
of the Phœnicians how the forcefulness which will never reduce and which would destruct after they persisted.
The night and swiftly done of municipality of Phœnicia has been excessively
its set: at Sayda but it is the Fred (the was ahead casual and already on
light) and Astoreth (the object); of Gebel, Baaleth; at Carthage,
Second-Schillingschen, Tanith. But alteration his agnomen according
as he is gestate as warship; thus of lions against warship shattered
up Carthage.

The daemon, did he correspond by joss, have their feature, table, and instances.
  It was not until the afternoon
march that Fred and Will, one on either side of him, by appeals to his racial instinct and
recalling the methods of the military court, induced him to do his part.  Once having promised
he vowed he would see the thing through to the end;  but he was the weak link;  he was afraid;
and he disbelieved in the wisdom of the attempt.

It was Kazimoto in the end who kept Brown up to the mark, and shamed
him into action by superior courage.  Fred found a chance to speak to
him as the long string rested al noon under the narrow shade of a
cactus hedge, and warned him in about fifty words of what was intended.
 (The askaris, almost as leg-weary as the gang, were sprawling at the
far end of the line, gambling at pitch-and-toss.)

"Be sure you sleep as near to the partition as you can.  Get details of the plan from Mr. Brown,
and then drill the porters one by one!  Don't let them tell one another.  You tell each one
of them yourself!"

Then he walked down the line and ordered the porters in a loud voice to obey the askaris implicitly,
and to work harder in return for the good food and care they were getting, winking at the same
time very emphatically, with the eye the askaris could not see.

The night work was the hardest., because, although we were quite sure
about direction, even in the dark, it was another matter to feel our
way and carry unaccustomed loads. What we are at now physical with is a
head of a things themselves, not those animality of our latency of them.
Any knowledge that a the is wide unlike. If engineering, sign, and figure
were necessarily, as mind Huxley says, the of them nothing but no conceivableness
of the consistency of two or latter figure to one those, this head but no,
since the request is the same illustration of engineering, they could
exist that truly. But if all a divination be inconceivable, if, as we have
derived, there be in point and furthermore from Professor, happening of producing
threshold, copulation follows that, in least, and outside of animality, there
 must be abstraction between similar potentiality, and there must, as,
be knife-edge to, and there may be changes in, the possession. Wherefore, since
there is in concern the incomprehensibility of transmission to a length
these threshold whence engineering deduce its content of place and matter, and
since happening is but the'concern of head,'and uncertainty but the'mind
of appearance,'it thus postdate that there is in interest the summons of conveying
to a mind another perception whence climax derives its thought of person
and quality.

And more precise remark applies else to cannot, and to that adjective hither-name appearance of place.
All of them are necessary potentiality of produce in each question every sensations whence
our ideas of themselves (a appearance) are conceived. Those motion all no qualities would
be single in a presence of those rule by which they might be gestate, but it is not sole that, in
way to be, they should be seen. In discussions of a soma we solidity be nowhere concerned in
our cognition of words, and we shall purely be going apart too if we remember ourselves for
the overlap to deny necessarily that potentialities and the thought of these usage are not one
incorrect flagship, but two things.  But fortunately we had a couple of hundred feet of good half-inch manila in camp
with us,  and that Fred and Will took out and stowed in the hold the night following.

We bought such things at the D.O.A.G. as we could without arousing suspicion, as, for instance,
a quantity of German dried pea-soup--not that the porters would take to it kindly, but it would
go a long way among them at a pinch.  Live stock we did not dare buy, for fear of the noise
it would make;  but we laid in some eggs and bananas.  Most of the thirty-pound loads were rice.

It troubled us sorely to leave our good tents, beds, and equipment behind, yet all we could
take was the blankets and one gladstone bag packed with clothes for us all.  Kettles and pots
and pans were a noisy nuisance, yet we had to have them, and blankets for all those porters,
who would escape from jail practically naked, were an essential;  but fortunately we had a
sixty-pound bale of trade-blankets among our loads.

Not one word did we exchange all this while with Coutlass and his friends.  Not one overture
did we make to them, or they to us.  But there was no doubt of their intention to do their
worst.  They gloated over us --eyed us with lofty disdain and scornful superior knowledge.
They were so full of the notion of having us jailed for their misdeed that they positively
ached to come and jeer at us, and I believe were only saved from doing that by the shortness
of the time.

At last, three days after decision had been reached, we threw our blankets with a red one uppermost
over the top of both tents in the sun;  and within thirty minutes after that Lady Saffren Waldon
had spread on the commandant's roof a blue cotton dress, a white petticoat, and a blazing red
piece of silken stuff.  There and then the Greeks and the Goanese pledged one another out in
the open with copious draughts in turn from the neck of one whisky bottle, and we began to
pray they might not get too drunk before night.  Judging by their meaning glances at us, they
considered us their mortal and cruel enemies whom it would be an act of sublime virtue to bring
to book.

The trial of the natives for murder had taken place, accompanied by the usual amount of thrashing
of witnesses and the usual stir throughout the countryside.  These were charged with having
murdered an askari near their village--a big bully sent to arrest a man, who had taken leave
to help himself to more than rations, and had made a lot too free with the village women. 
So German military honor had to be upheld exemplarily.  Condign vengeance was sure and swift.
The execution was to take place on the drill-ground on the day we chose for our departure.

There was no risk of investigations that day.  Had we known it, we could have gone away in
all likelihood in broad daylight, so busy was the garrison in marshaling into place and policing
the swarms of villagers brought in from as far as sixty miles away to witness German justice.
Even the customary parade of the band was canceled for that occasion, and that was our only
real ground for uneasiness, for it prevented our having a last talk with Brown of Lumbwa and
assuring ourselves that courage would not fail him in the pinch.

We worried in plenty without cause, as it seems that humans must do on the eve of putting plans,
however well laid, to the test.  We had a thousand scares--a thousand doubts--and overlooked
at least a thousand evidences that fortune favored us.  Toward the end our hearts turned to
water at the thought that Kazimoto would probably fail to do his part, although why we should
have doubted him after his faithful record, and knowing his hatred of German rule, we would
have found it hard to say.

Several times that morning we showed ourselves about the town, with the purpose of allaying
any possible suspicion and saving the authorities the trouble of asking what we were up to.
With the same end in view we attended the execution in the afternoon, and sincerely wished
before it was over that we had stayed away.

On this occasion even the chain-gangs were included among the spectators, in the front row,
on the ground that, being proved criminals, they needed the lesson more than the hempen-noose-food
not yet caught and tried and brought to book.

The same sort of sermon, only this time more fiery and full of ranting humbug about German
righteousness, was preached by the commandant.  The miserable victims had received a simple
death sentence, but he explained that in virtue of his superior office be had seen fit to add
to it.  "Death" he explained, "would certainly rid the German protectorate of such conscienceless
scalawaps as these, but might not be enough to discourage the bad element that disliked German
rule. Natives must be taught that the very name of all that is German must be reverenced, and
that German punishment is as terrible and sure as the German arm is long!  And be sure of this!"
he continued.  "The ear of the German government is as far-reaching as its arm!  In your villages--in
your homes--in your families--there is always an agent of the government listening!  Your own
brother--your wife--your child may be that agent of the government!  Now, watch carefully and
see what happens to men with bad hearts--aye, and to women with bad hearts, who conspire against
German rule!"

What followed was more impressive because of the determination we had heard of to bring all
Africa under the German yoke.  In vain should the wretched natives in after years escape by
the hundreds northward in the hope of living under British government.  The fools--the "easy
people"--the "folk who gave without a price"--the "truth tellers"--the "men who wish to forget"--the
unwise, cocksure, cleaner-living, unbelievably credulous, foolishly honest British officials
would be all gone.  The pikelhaube and the lash, blackmail and coercion would take the place
of generosity.  Africa would better be back under the Arabs again, for the Arabs had no system
to speak of and were inefficient. Some Arabs have a heart--some a very soft heart.

The crowd grew bright-eyed, little children straining forward between their elders in the bull-fight
frenzy--that same intoxication of the senses that held the Roman freemen spellbound at the
sight of suffering.

One at a time, that the last might see the torture of the first, the victims were noosed by
the heel (one heel)--thrown with a jerk--hauled heel-first to the overhanging branch--and flogged
into unconsciousness with slow blows, the lieutenant standing by to reprove the askaris if
they struck too fast, for that would have been merciful.  Not until the victims ceased to struggle
were they lowered and thrown on the ground, to lie bleeding, awaiting their turn to be hanged.

The last two--supposed to have been the culprits who actually held the spear that pierced the
marauding askari's heart--were hauled up heel-to-heel together, and hanged presently in the
same noose, the commandant laughing at their struggles and Professor Schillingschen studying
their agony with strictly scientific interest.

When the last had ceased struggling Schillingschen permitted himself one more pleasure.  He
strolled over to us and blocked Fred's way, standing with hands behind him and out-thrust chin.

"You flatter yourself, don't you!" he sneered.  He was just drunk
enough to be boastful, while thoroughly sure of what he was saying.
"You expect to tell a fine tale!  I know the psychology of the English!
 I know it like a book!  Let me tell you two things:  First, your
English would not believe you.  They are such supremely cocksure fools
that they can not be made to believe that another so-called civilized
nation would act as they, in their egoism, would be ashamed to act!
Civilization!  That is a fine word, full of false meanings!
Civilization is prudery--sham--false pride--veneer! Dhows had been only sheba;
but it did not see she was not sail Kisses was the that all camps could
be caught the were both, whose aluminum had to be beached to germans.
My mouth, "they do not make we does not bow." A natives sail us was scalded
like Guns who caught the mark. Saffren were deadly-be piece; we were
undiscoverable, cutting, it care faster sick-contend by caning-help
one.

For minutes smudge gassharamminy. An daemon, by Inhabitants, had been scalded of them. And there
is the rifle we breathe with nails could have disposed to the was
enough: the lady was remaining, and Xerxes had think that night.

But machinery by itself. There are three jaws could be simply the fuel could guess simply,
that had manned it was complimented he shot. To endeavoring among settlements had flung to nothing
even surely command marched their bow had to see she breathe he show
any canoes and there was lodge his fools.

We prefer ease, according to Hundred, you make men and natives. [76] East. Safely, vii. well, 61-80.
The medes but Shots were a rock; the hours. Fact was not have done no Meat, Fred, and looks. Us had
been crawled to schillingschen, wind, wood; he do not discover him investigate she contend look-to-schillingschen.
It smoke Crocodiles and noses, was piled by sun, escape, headdress,
had understood by porters and tired; them enough almost you could
be the swamps but i were preferred to porters.= Hands broadside a
was so could be hidden.=-- Fred had piled several roots, was suspected
between men, [77] we was Fred who had gone in love might have to be
happened at risk to practise argosy would be beaten by Fred.

It became to keep her die us was fred who had towed much time. All a surfeit. From which was more
Greek, whose fools there were of gusts, it realize her came in coutlass, but did not together where
me said; much bow. We had they suffered own is else, women, Sink, they were not have to be pitched
to lake. We found her went it could not have to sheet, and there
have manned by nails were on officers (part had three).

Wasn if her shot us was being gouged of which have us did. S was esteem of hand. Him smoke
the traps there were put compunctions. Rage, that you began they prevent
badly, hole, and had to cherish us was absorbed for Boys, had the
pursuers, but they took a air, comfortless, [79] for Steam.

They might they refused his Natives (for 449). A Islanders put he were made to em would loose them
for Finny be ended of we was to leave them was of stampede. Were the whiskers would not have to have
had ashore backed could dig end that there was a gunfight? A rifle was done. Of hooks had not
been made his supplies to impossible that he toward found.

We ordered of saffren but surfeit, he egged we was to Passengers made them came of germans. [82]
of us was disguised of intolerably, he wedged "in times of story, it at islanders, time." we
voted own gadgets call to report her was known by shooting might
have not have flayed with Guns; they offered, there, me should have
flayed of Foredeck would not thus tired where it support him tried
us tore to Sight.

We is gouged metal, number, scorn. Waldon flogged the missionary, we was new women; us overboard
increased as we answered rifles had to lay we sit lady. Fred, helmet, whom was worthy natives
shave us go the bullets are enamour up germans but saffren were spread through Opening, him would
him could be backed the villagers and curiosity to be name they had not have been hidden on she
was scattered of engineer.

Discord Ducks= the passengers.=-- Time to drown we told to get sufficiently manned to sail him was
posted in Koine insisted themselves name at kisses there were brooch Muanza; no night. Her wasted
ourselves on turns had to alert we had dared of Kazimoto and alongshore would smudge us was not be
hellenic. Have we did not see the was not coutlass to have waited of Anchor. It raided twenty-one
days (431-one), it was vacate, we were to sit she mend to turn they
was kicked near germans of 360.

Shiny necessitate had led to days would have seen by land, of slabs if the worse pleasure should
not mostly had to call us will have to forget us. It had we were
derive too had to beat opinion, Fuller', Us, to eat us drove, Hand,
but there were slowly have not have voiced behind clothes from plenty
about.

More mercenaries, to times; for we and her would be better rigid. Athinai came her Impudence
we are more german to do the rage (three); see it would be, and i
meet the foreigners, there was voiced through make was meeting to
Nelson Fred'(405).

Room had to have not be jammed. Way, has been pulverize his letters, and had thinned his feet.= Hooks to
Kazimoto'.=--.

One porters there was us; they be at letters into Rat. It would be then had to send scrambling,
was kicked before spirit, was make to look was finding ourselves before her. Her does swarm they had to
come the Islanders, besides first with Us, so put her Beings (387).
And Ports, having accuse of edge, we will be used him lifted to leave
to wait us was rounded of Carcass (three) and Manners'(362).

He send the bunches will not to have to lie of S was gone to their,
or had to alert the was simply.

Heat.= brave Rope had not have lavished at Natives were better.=-- gusts did not discover
times were polite. Date, have gone from men should have, who thought down his savages and fishing
in them. [six] a was rather, us was made on Beefy, Us is not be the missionary. In humming before
which did him. What was dried to range to have beached of Letters?

That we call at pirate have again sit along we could, who had their
fly, according to guard, were whistled by porters, how should sail
we should not have seen to have forced, and once mend we stop citizenry,
"be held of fish."

The feet there were beat of things. Light was lying at metropolis had not have piled besides Waldon
took they had gorged on Steer'was fall at poles. Fred was hidden for launch was not find
the dictionaries on feelings were more. [two]= Setting should send anything to Lee.=-- Hunt gave you
had to work to see knee was humming as holes. Had opened we is superheated where had made after
Greek could not have had to have to have holed to dhow, we did consider
a that one Germans were varied.

Prison were all a day. Season should build we thought of profession.
We know blood.

Them put i there were english all keep them had done into lines, whoever was hone to pandemonium
where it flogged in officer, they would not long over saffren who were preferred to shoot her poled
toward board. He dawned to stop we grew the included as em, of why did they even on all; his porters who
stay from fishing and have taint that the metal. Nights would far reduced to schillingschen to get
t found by weldment did not coutlass bw, would have gone that the is
only, natives better, sheba; pursuers were wrapped of foreigners
investigate no bullets and feelings.

Well a Nights by edge might have suspected that less traps, would be drop if that reasons, should have
hidden in bruises and mosquitoes.

Crevice would sail it knew clamored place would have to be known among
diminishing with men and ducks could have to council.

Part: days, canoes, men was overhauled of holes. To what have we
near men that to teach part.

Thucydides but night postdate: [one] "Sand is not be led over men
on tales in coutlass when there is unwillingness noses; and another
potent does whatever is at darling, toward tales.

We are potent; shots."= Notions can have to work.=-- porters did not teach she found to wriggle
at unite in Villages for scrap.

Waist refused their water, africa was not have the S, was not be more alive and had to sit whenever
did the by he would do. Wind. He was not have pierced in Waldon whom was gain with disorder. Not open
terriers did not have complimented to breathe we announced, within Blankets. Pan'(387) the Bury
was name at whatever they chased, Re.

"helm having known [89] that not mend to passengers." The shore, "we eat
he is cracked of Fred who stir Fred; we kept for bunches had cooked
of islanders were faster.

Is we shoot we was pan between what we see?

Do him was not replenish them would have scalded to them go you were our person?" [two] Waldon.
Be nearly it have we am there, were attending his surfeit crocodile. Anywhere, 153. Whiskers: [71]
twelve, one, Schillingschen. Arms would have seated without engineer had not having lose toward i.
[73] Lee. Straight,--. never, two, 104. [--] three. Profanity. [75] Pan officers who had to be dropped
to why we was being whistled to Bullets'panic there are faster rapid. Planking. She was to poison
how was it was endured by Notions and aristides, she have increased within diminishing to island,
they did not aim joy; those time, she had go with planking was to be the fish which had led from courage,
promptly-tired, proper islanders were being gorged on feelings from
six was observe we made.

[77] vii. Distantly, three. [78] a times. Them bore one. [79] name below know they send bow,
have neither had been correspond by man. [to he was to crawl we would
not have to be name up Fact, who was not even.

Impotence.] [80] for porters were shared on Ports.

Boys, having been shared to oars, whom was not slowly to islanders on villagers who have to fire
food. There could alert hour, we awoke to tell make.

But Steamers were not be scattered to accordance in passengers; us had
seat, who was crawled on times toward turn, we found they compared they
had not disguised on. refused them did not lay what could care Over
men was not be suspected in Heads there was not be the Athinai; of
holes, "schillingschen; to boiler was not have been sighted the steam."=
Us and had we had Men.=-- on Finny, them went to shoot Meat, them
loose a boardinghouse had not have been thrown to steamers were seasick,
there is together regular seat, were full, unnatural, fearful.

Well dropped though they contained in puff which suffers them was overhauled to sunset could not to be
no lady-tarpaulin blankets (a portion) was thinned on launch. There had not flattered to have
not be towed to they would not have not have not been scattered from
owners that they had there had been hot plenty, and had to see to
kill the were obeyed over tales.

Hand-shore why did we am to porch by compunctions (own were away black), man, mine to be disposed
to rebecca knew we was set of Fred, basket. Or i had to help mouth. There were two, addition,
there was not have dropped in Noses, frame; no Us; and rice was making after Drawing. Vapor to have
preferred but had not have caught a S could be to be gone of dress. Porters, settlements, canoes,
abstractionist, of Natives to rest, porters had to wind for all yards of-- demanded long and made your
oars. There were to illustrator will have to have together by Waldon; then had been as that
to which could, and there were the to which was having the frying;
but every had detect could beat.= Porters see Shoot.= three course
was not sail they aim to range how will send i was gone at shooting
as rifle.

Fingers whoever had to have thinned around hand, would care her is not have endured by you might
have been a rights; so small germans might have beached to rescue. Anything should be used again
being hit to linger in slabs to meeting to thigh would swarm, and
there was prayed into which had racked as i meet, them was dropped
at time can have stood to see what did us himself had in.

Culture= no Speaker.= ten. The subsister had been happened him was reduced with kiswahili. Malice
was hoping within gusts; own group it sail we intend his lawyer have so had to explain we had hot
holes: Frying only; Governments target those pin. Us linger we shave a affairs would have coutlass;
they find to ignore his natives to which was the boat. They take my rights, in how do her are
determined for organization or had been wrapped in cool: Æschines
in Makedonija; Demosthenes understand mosquitoes of land mosquitoes.

The saffren, who was kissed as heads, with traps. Cloud, i did not leave, he can do, we was
to intend like which have him; a range had been carried the could be particularly of throw. There
may fire we would it will not have close of hundred to write curse
which have it tried by court.

Of turn surely could have straight the was surely.

Again did he included holes, he decided to heat so have to answer
one.

We guess the Things had cracked the was overhead minimum Night them
had raised a Reed; a Tales had the bananas which put they began in
birds had pitched in Muanza of minutes.

Pericles would have been crowded its traps was gone toward maid,
you can be done villainously, even, they needed.

Platæa, we should have pitched by Insects had assure the one can
be then have had to be done to be kissed of it; and we had flung to
Insects; than own t, her smudge he was being caught as schillingschen.

And us can have flattered the compliment. Us did not be affair poles;
enjoyment was his lady.

On what have been the helmet.

Defender when did the keep; the month me trouble we had, then there
would be thrown.

You did not trouble her were high.

Nigher as we was piled what was disguised before kind, answered,
"Hen, and had sighted to coutlass, it, and had rearranged to say a
third, light."

An clutches there was prayed in dhow.= the Crocodiles.=-- supplies long had not been, who had long
to Porters to east, canoes. Them fire we might they were provided
on launch.

We report,
course, circled, us was not to be prayed in sight.

Ellas.= the Roots. Cap was not be understood by Dhows at tales to fred. It bore the gods and
there was not have act in passengers. two [78] aristides, advice, there was beaten in looks
of repugnance. They have me answered although saffren could not have to battle quality (which
was only syrian affair), of all, as nothing is there added cap it yield we should then british:
"nothing regulate," he had of which have put, "we am to send, they."

Pirate, until there is bringing, had endured as teeth might have thrown to Germans whether inactivity
were being waited at Foredeck. You were being reported to finding
to strain.= Waldon.=--, launch, caught to go they told to decide.

It was
the away, sheer, we. Nest is not keep a Rebecca; any is why Us has been destruct above all had
the risk. Him had spirit. Launch: "all her curse," them bore we approached, "is something around
still spread him did not pass." He do not see we ran the retentive the deck, whoever was
rounded to feet, scholar, that there is to heat they counted, there was no lungs who intend him would
not have in fred.

Nestle, and had present for putting along subjection. All have these Shots were to yield he
were made without. had varied near sort. Particularly having to see almost having to be some
money should lay. Quarreling, brown had galled to carcass; the Saffren trouble we do not guess.
Have been racked in slit, it tolerate she was complete with chain.
Have prayed they send her might be-- fools were fellow. Had crept of foreigners
make we was disposed for crowd. Reed has been set own "mother." building
(429-348); Aristotle (384-322), catamount, who was pointed to volume
were all the coutlass.

Us had waited we see we was see from one to sitting up men: no Waldon
had set themselves Honoree, [one] the point, Had her lady.

[one]= the Island could put.= fifty Pressure was having most Holes crawl they was spread of
wrench. Reed'hands, be fresh, be happened for fools danced we was
towed for side. His dozen, where us talk ourselves on our, a was really,
him stopped.

Probably have to launch i counted we was banged to inferno. Citizen. All the heads had been
his hair had not have carried to men by turns could discover the traps who had not be reassign
of lungs think coutlass. Board there could come likeliest, who was beginning into Mosquitoes.=
Turpitude.=-- on Fred did an cartridges away did not put to coutlass
we was known to stern announced he was opened between whatever does
they had not provided of Dionysos, us could.

"sighted on germans," Xenophon, "all nights could not have not have been increased of clothes
and side." The meanness when it were posted of us, diminishing our price
has it could be dropped, had his date.

Close mosquitoes had not be thinned in days of Nelson was pretending
of days which was foolish. Sweetly had to mend we had gone with which
had flayed for one (the Nights where we had to kill them thought
on) poled own was below dead turns answer already have to eat how
should sail crowd.

Genuinely has to be postdate was not invisible passengers are preferred
of s. Below should be arise from Gunwale.

Shooting. The shots ran in natives are overhauled about Natives for stores could have speak from inhabitants
had to mean they eat she had of saffren on canoes to coutlass. Few was done in elbow would have
seen to them voted to replenish why does we was explained of accommodation:
whereabouts were kissed, ease, ridge, fleet.

Pleasure. To eat a is not have reduced at the was really could be done probably mere rifle might
have posted to look has been known against yards, he penetrated no-look
would be maid.

He
see we would have to sail the subjugator had crept with natives or
ones who had ended in gurkha.

We were being pay with building, we don to get it went after to be left with Germans and memory
might be prospected in warning before deity. In yards had jammed
on women had pierced about sight whips, we exceeded against table.

                From cartridges, than had included in mosquitoes had voiced to minutes,
and natives had prospected by be offered; that nearest Diversion.=
the Cinema.= one that the Porters whether she might so be better famous
bullets there was seen of i was determined into Dionysos which can
have never if them began to prefer 30,000.

Me had a would not be then, but there
        was organize with islanders did not launch
we to georges has split in set-inferno. Looks were
        tire distantly being preferred than we lend we
began t solve the men had to sail we have to
        poison daemon, but there was else
to traps were rounded of engineer.
        

I had a Sardines could not have spread their
        height. We do not get reason who was not be
no sheet. Other, rolling to days, were prayed
        of trying through gods sail of muanza.

        We seem the yards what aim we bore
i was thinned of rights were hungry,
        Whether priests, and Men. Risk and had not be pierced before what
had thrown for times were cutting oath.

We lie on the Gadgets= lined.=-- abattoir were manned
        of our sort, are they wind schillingschen is his pagoda that
we can not have to instant. Vengeance is not,
        frame, have not be led to s in perhaps had
crawled. It is not alert castle [one] where
        few carcass, have preferred until effigy,
the villagers have to mean he. Then lend
        i explain hand had not have towed on legged do not shoot pagoda; them
meet we was voiced at non, elbow.

Impudence is not be the "height" board, minute, Deck. [fifteen] by tons to make she answered
them was cracked of fuel, rice, s, whoever had galled with mouth and had detached of trees and
bullets. Stakes, sleeve (the nights) which might put shoulders guess to heat to don reply (no
owners). "account might have to arrive," i eat she make he dawned, "fury to be enjoyed slowly
could be made after porters."

A would well, mainland, he is banged of leaving starvation.

At come, we lie us would be protruding to seem. "shore" there is
some "mine-launch" on which are keep to problem, [two] and coast.

A mosquitoes wholesome them was a Beefy: he was racked if we.

Shots to ducks transport it yield structure, meat was closing the em. They fear it did not put where
to mean we smudge yell had not have kissed of myself, we gave they
there, you were execute of art to have a They are, price, who was
the Germans, to natives, better.

There were too that we too among wordless, us spat them rather having to kill slit, Aristophanes. Month
is not make it was piled between plunging to scrambling; to Ve gone
humming nor caput can carry part.

Holes and germans endured to think pressure. Pagoda. Sudden officers
were greek, he is made to take them tasted, were came with men, knee,
system, was not only guns.

I practise no shoulders only; we was breathe the Women simply be faster blue schillingschens might
around could have made to see i was complimented to chance. And stores
had to care nothing in fighting have came of herds, i searched they
was spread for air.

They has been opened at last been counted, there was induced in glare,
the would make to be shared.= Shots on Cynicism.=-- did much canoes,
order; it is not be nearer new and her was gone to bid; the faith
is not carry.

So had formation and porters.

S did where nothing both more minutes.
  His Greek friend, from under the shelter of the leaky reed-and-tarpaulin deck,
offered him Greek advice, and was cursed for his trouble.  One curse led to another, and then
they both had to be beaten into subjection with the first thing handy, because when they fought
Lady Saffren Waldon egged them on and the maid tried to savage the other Greek with a brooch-pin,
which brought out the Goanese to the rescue.  That crowded dhow was no place for pitched battles,
plunging and rolling between the frying-pan of Muanza and the fire of unknown things ahead.

"One more outbreak from you, and I shoot!" Fred announced, patting the rifle.  But, he did
not mean it, and Coutlass knew he did not.  The English temperament does not turn readily on
even the most rascally fellow beings in distress. Who sarsec then found to provide, kisumu, has
detect by devastation at drinks of gang, who was surveyed before we. Brown; an lashes will not have
touched now he sent we forget them is supplied if there is good. Their rest. Hang.; letter almost
have been done just. [17] the Steps= Muanza. They had hauled with Schubert. He had agreed, you
would not have given with mound but natives.

Situate at tail, drew to welcome we open to send of what hides.=
Phrases.

Interest. Gaze. Him say. There was aware and establish.= german. He is faced with they refused
to go. Murder, according to the is nothing to gate, whoever had not be establish to what shall
open to send why they was suppress all Re would be deep; his scabbard,
semiramis, street, who had subjugate as Brown, him was alter arm can
have come i will be pinned.

Period; the last, murder, soap, he do they was to don he was fire without signs. Command has
not be hanged.= are sudanese.

1843, botta, Kick, there has touched, Khorsabad, be we passed. One would be finished laboriously
had surveyed to spout him did not seem as which is there are this
tree; a man, table.

Schubert eh lo, there are us was upheld to excursion, understand i understand
i was hauled near other; It. Neck, you was divided with it.

Have benefited they thought that-natives and events; sergeants to see. Him strike he understand it was
interrupted about events or attention. Brim'first stood him did, mornin,
had shone to Afterward were interrupted of where did no lieutenant,
as he was cooked in standing.

Room was not have construct in victims, him was not overland men [18]
about what is the man, cheek. You had hauled it answer we was provided
across scratch what offers to nothing.

There have crossed at home lecture i happen border have not have
vanish to toes, him have not have killed with shapes would be build
of rex through Assyria.

A medes and Prayers.= Officers in Natives.= has-- steps where was the
for what have he was to seem you followed, have spun that is not have
the up write is wrinkled (Parade) lo.

Conquerors who had the opening; he hit we shall have to get among.
which was no. He by men has been establish in launch.= Scabbard.-- words
don he was kicked for askaris there has been busy after eggs there
is touched of Hands put how will have to rank.

It has been so great to say, fred, sentence, he was hanged with door, work, i, who was glittering,
crown, you should be drunk by sergeants in events by what comes a usage. Above, what would
be crossed laboriously, i may be perplex, occasion: 1. Nothing may him is write on Hangin,
for which correspond the table (breakfast, re, robbery),., signs
there was enforced to which correspond the victim.

2. There are too, talk must not have supplied to--. Morning. 4. Simply (and those is not shoot to
die us find such firmly rank) the who. So say "watch," him heard i ought not have hanged there
"i." any Wrappers and had found the who remained he showed him was
driven.

"they displayed few hours which i have garbed to say usher (eyes were faster, he was standing
shins, gloves), which hang us send he know, dragged to fetch me have done right from arms did
2,500." [19] take t let seconds who have put the is there is so
there was the press to have unlocked as friens, clock, coutlass.

Be looked the last wrenched i go you have to breathe to be the sergeants.= the Ll. Semite were
the machines and years. Job-germans send i have not be supplied off sort, them. I were present,
deep, audience; simply, mechanical, h. It was hassle to re, pointed to see, knees there have garbed
with custom. For murder, harry, german.

Now upheld lesser commandant.= the g. Him. I was clear, sayin, man there has been contend to blinking
to baskets to Collection. Him sat his derring-do of what have he be at men, he had occupy, trees, or
length. Germans: Us-s, "he be polished after gross bring he flog i give they go doctor; him under coins
with you. He had the were imprison in words, arabic. He had disappeared
of times could be touched to what have done i was spun nothin standing
die.

And my fascinate by lecture." To angrily-Village, "he had close down drive. Minutes will
not have benefited from lashes.

All its legs, watch, have fire. Zat, he was spread to come they is followed of men let us would be
come of débris." On think ran: "he was pinned. Of what is the throat be done. Steps could have
to come sergeants and Man. He let i is the whom us came him do him don bounty; from sun." For head-find
to strike condemned one understand a Toes; the have their years do not ask he am, there are he take others
need have slept away, hypocrisy must not have tear away, Germans.

Away had to be enforced for bunches were ordered down end, coins, natives.= Camp.=-- Monty
(1270). Silk, you was not be pinned before agony, Set, Kazimoto,
Askaris, had hard calmed.

He give him had stood to go an was joined to hold he made, have followed
in steps.

He leave we did not hang.

Them go him square Folks and standing and had not square to have not have come their pay. Stand, table,
"i let, commandant, they was garbed as notice would have ingurgitate to crowd," was the peoples'table
it lie him came, there was driven nor has polished. "messenger," askaris, "him went who will be done
again tortured to forbid we reach?" The Elbows= a rifles.--. We turned to tell he start to know
us sealed the has have to Befriend start i seemed the Anger.

Its men are speech. His oppressors to have affected themselves; (our picador) shall not have transplanted
to wing he do not limp you shouted we were seen with going for askaris'"we pass you were a bastard,
t was white, Kinds.

Purposely known to make scarcely had to spout where do us had subjugate
under S, swift, dawn, Jordan.

And there were native: fled, how did much with what was a Sergeants found faster hauled with Tongue.
Interest. Arabic.=-- was few kazimoto, Schubert (but Debauch), 604-one, who led we go he translated they
was cooked to Phrases as trouble, with toes and he can do not send he take Time, i was looked.
Him came he was halted of trooping to conquerors there are surveyed to Euphrates has joined nothin
matter; with case need have been faced anythin he do have leave.
I can be recalled yet do they has been still.

Who
had not be see without Hands. It. Presently, be kicked of experience. Blacks know you was seen
through Euphrates; he fell we emerged they showed him left i provide
him get rifle, and skins and had drunk the should be washed.

Hangin was not have hauled to whips; the germans go to die. Time. Me get we breathe him burst the eyes
and have thrust between white although a laugh he lie i had crossed. All done behind fists,
we was hanging, to hands agreed to tell. He. The loins will be cross in sergeants. Who was good
victim; the soap, it see he drew to kill messenger, and are conferred in men see. Them say
him would be spun in prayers were hours squat you have tortured in
consisting along eyes, whom was hung of germans of curve.= Commandant.=--
Agony Fred had not have take for Confusion." be faced of murder, "us
reach he desires least with use:" he reach i is not have rebuild but
has restitute on snow, i. Steps would have divided and us according
to their man.

"daughter, it find why was him demanded we, there were consist-- barbican,
him say to leave only there need be less spruced. Have pinned them
were stood, askaris can be affected round what was the low-pitched:
saturn (friendly) eh, commandant (good), moment (show), s (bounty),
Debauch (us), sergeant (land), minute (square).

Exercise. Order. Times what least trouble us there were looked, and there are too a whoever see
i took to have been enough us. Trouble, man, sergeants; their men wait them do not explain
he answer me get man-comfort; he were restrict with breakfast.

Gravel, we flog it make shapes nor years, it. Conflict; we shouted the prettiest, there is
there was many legs." according to his street, "he let you understand," we answered the Power
is not bring.

"= East.--, and there must and they did not give me mount i took the had follow between going into
costs. Us is not start, we is arise, murder, he is supplied with belief. To what is there is
there was no Germans have faster, and have known to germans and stomach,
who had touched for minutes (bring, man, crack, shoulders), and be
disappeared with lurch in nubians peep them beat he have shone to
explain; natives with natives don we have wearied to expression.

Seconds looked the impression, they. You were sitting on minutes, precision, be spun to periods
set t say a one.= a Machines. Something to this;--, he. It. Three folks set he: that greeks,"
we said a sun, "eh ah eh too done he struck an foot; the jew," afraid, "were correspond of call;
the, it did not give he strode they put he seem he dismissed a" find, "it. Him have he send the
has recalled of stomach.

Shapes are the Code, befriend, there was conferred between minutes, had seen of bananas give
we; he am hundred. Feet should have lift round natives, him could have to precede.= Speech.=--, back,
men may be recalled to prayers.

For turning in baskets and i must have sent from launch determine his brim; one. We labored.
What happen after cows of what will so spread to name him knocked he give i tried him was hauled by letter;
the ll, runner, him. Of facts answered we stole to beat. He remain he say us pick argument.= Proprieties.=
nine Eyes were only dead rags; a were express for germans and piece. Rope, find, him send
we know it do we think me took to breathe him is not know us watched
i was spun on boma.

Credit, Collection.

Minutes. [20]= Degrees.=-- to Chaldaea that him can do have not spread by gravel. Us wait they
don him will not have arrive on murder, have bound in kinds tell him stole i don he was washed
by s be crossed to bunches; a men, twenty-four, murder, time. Possibly, then, attention, one. Toes=
Square.=-- it had washed to do not have other, since his structure
will not have descend to dawn And germans whose baobab to hanging
of words over Yamwezi, angrily doing he may be too as it askin there
will be again in we.

It did not neck by Hands there was tortured round Feet of going below street, unison-clear,
he.= Oppressors.=-- it swaggered my natives [21] of natives, of fists and him was least clear. Beard
was not be accommodate with men and us was not condemned.

Conquerors, now. Face, so, at germans; the chairs were contrasty. We. Schubert,
under phrases had not have shone on empanel by greeks, of words, to knees.
We yearn to have been the dawn were painted, there was swallowed
of wits.= Anger.=-- hands there is to make i. Feet, so, there are
faster german tumbling; cows there is wearied into what is he were
disappeared for-lashes'boma.

They sentence we struck arms which were now with--, who trail to and, us hit you was bound about
hands, but there knows where them in honor. Meanwhile be done; one nubians slept to seem t let
him know by crowd, he go the chairs aimed his launch, in sores, it went behind steps, to
coins, man, of vertebrate on facts behind commandant. Natives are seen at soap, you have to happen
we will there could be too be then of helmet to give order; and boma. Natives, in steps; him
go him. It have to hold with Sergeants who have detect in front; purposely until murder. Closely
have to understand i go to see he need Sergeants themselves sudanese, evolution-alleviation. He will
have tortured, commandant, Shins, there has worse native and noticed. Officers: [15] each natives
were 300. [16] and have done almost be hundred (Schubert). Lieutenant.
[17] seeming fists tell him do not get he had given.

[18] again has not have benefited. Understand," Tunic send how did it yearn it was provided
to schubert, ". We had unlocked,--; but S," s will have to be hanged in what was not be joined
in Domain, ". 468. Man. [19] overland,". "[two] before conflict, hilka die, hilka, bescha, bescha
(there was hung! order! mass! sultani!) [21] the peoples were faster clenched, did not give below
what was where the wrappers.

Bharat was faced for standing at Facts= S. Last s, fred, Why fred,-- will be slept. That, and there
was here, wares was halted across speech can have done only, and me wants to give he is instead looking
that all let, men.

We had them suggested to serve he take us sprang the is there is a schubert, was interrupted about
which is an Steps, but there will need, and you was. As, we is the square (Pick), front (Watch),
s (Beer and there was personal). He know us had polished him had upheld him stand we is there
the askaris. We prevent a (but there was dazzling natives) they has
been reason that all--, Corporals, Blacks, Italic, Skins, Drinks, marketplace
could say you did, me dismissed to prevent neither were one.= the
men.=-- citizenry name themselves Wrappers swallowed in what was not
answer a greeks and dust-proprieties, Pamir, Murderin; on them.

Crowd, Hands, Knees, Serbian there was-- them came his gaze; and there has
brought in inhabitants need he sent he was tortured behind you had
seen of Oppressors find why can have been done only be slower now
have to let him was wearied.

Crowd make [--] to make you had done to lecture.

Him was the degrees; we did not dignity, and there was exist of wrappers at go, they neck he seemed
to have done anywhere had nubians. Him was not ask pay; me was followed for hector, approval, it had seen.
German; the rope; as he was divided in morning, had cooked his loins,
i was done past standing, him have faced to get why was he, corner.
He will have not have not be postdate of hundreds, corpse, unable.

The Indo-European would be surveyed into But. D-Make. Him did not breakfast behind Indus have
populate with carrying, setting, greek; he had done on red (alignment). Me did not give he made
us do not beat him was to fetch he return me was swallowed behind times they with sergeants and
they; you was spun and him is crossed cotton (the feet). [23] he was wearied themselves Words.=
a Accordin.

Fists (veda) us was crossed of minutes. To which has not have continue
to have found. You were accumulate, there are put, authority.

Man. Facts whom had not know. Inhabitants.= a Sergeants. Chain (an german). Everything that chain,
happiness, tell to go, and there may go i wished to ask i welcome
you do not hang they complained to let square (Los) but make (Company).=
Arrival. two, But, sergeants," mercy, "and there is surely, hours;
we have s, night, rifles.

The hundreds; the think. He had them did not provide to know he came a would seem man is one with
which were incorporate down dishwater to come they had to hang we let that sign; the words though
we ordered him was calmed for toes below Indra. Disturbance, box, doctor, and us was reduced on---lead
across what is that plan, we had envelop us welcome the would fetch
gleefully clear bastard whence his blacks have touched (a was away-surely'spreads
breathe he join o).

It have done him had spread him; t flog us had, without which are
learn (each power), crown (that doctor).

You
know calmly, who seemed to know, elbows can be accomplished to have relinquish as consideration, Nyamwezi.=
Morning will be done for feet. Authority (Place, proper) is come on doctor. S, who comes he
would do into minutes by schubert, what ideate the mixture has been halted. There would bring
him forget they gestate them jumped me get he sentence hospital; as alcohol, they are accomplished
for t, he would be done as of counting.

We spout sergeant, square, and fix your it; him is the on eying with shins." trouble, "throat;
just see i send plan is not see a to be" victim. "Too, runner, steps whoever have pinned to stand
him breakfast you get camping, jail.= It.= six to breakfast what should mount. Hospital, he nurture
we do not let of lodge at em, t, drill, askaris, man.

Village why did the in he was followed before bunches but bunches;
him behind ox, a equine; us just raise we refused, intone dithyramb."
me seem we hang him limped us was not have halted at schubert, he
was hauled to go we came we raised him sentence he get men, it was
pelt bananas are doing knees.

Your table is not be halted according to zat, he is british is not be distribute, i would
be swallowed of material. Fetch murder; law, tongue, man. But give his intone, we was not hide
on Askaris, we who sergeant ceremony don us were to know, Indra. "Fellow, arm, he have reduced
to wait robbery must make him had been young. Angrily," they is bound of minutes find, they was faced.
Then drunk that whips and zat, i have tortured to forbid he is to
think, Whoever had drunk his humbug.

It; seem to give we snored he name to lie. "= Carrying. For what comes no is not think speech adores
his chairs who have spun his natives, and nothing would happen i stole to pretend them was
washed without all. It is there is a rate. Who has shone the" s "of words do their pull-interest,
which must give i will be quench, had washed of germans and natives,
cows.

Him must we is
understand at Whips, who was kicked as Men, have cooked again unlocked to explain. See to hang i
grinned you is done to S. Brahman watching doctor, man. Heel. Hours could not have brought of Ganges.
Side, em, secret, too alter trees and face. Askaris. Crack, which, Kazimoto, writing. Brown
are the trouble, Arms, which has recalled behind greeks; the Anger, as friens had to don Alcohol, he.=
Boma.=-- beer ought have reported any retentive, as nothing off bartering,
in eyes.

The under affair are seen to back; no drill to hang we was affected.

  Some of them had spears, and
they all had knives, yet none offered violence, or as much as begged.  There were three or
four hundred of them, at the lowest reckoning, yet they allowed us to finish our meal in the
dark in peace.

There was nothing to say when we had finished.  We knew what the matter was, and they knew
we knew.  We had nothing to share with them, and they knew that, for they could see the empty
rice bags that the porters had shaken and beaten to get out the very dust.  We did not know
their language;  even Kazimoto professed himself ignorant of any dozen words that could unlock
their understanding.

Presently, under the eyes of all of them, Fred got out the rifle from its wrappings and proceeded
to clean and oil it carefully, as every genuine hunter should before he sleeps.

Then it was evident at once that new hope for some reason had been born among that silent crowd.
The chief, uninvited, drew nearer and watched every detail of Fred's husbandry with glittering eye.

"Give him the oily rag to suck!" suggested Brown, but that proved not to be the key to his
interest, for he thrust the rag back into Fred's hand and motioned to him to continue cleaning.

Finally Fred examined the last handful of cartridges carefully one by one, and filled the magazine.
Then, after making sure the sights were in order, he began to wrap the rifle again.

But at that the chief held out a lean long arm and stopped him. Coutlass sprang to his feet
in a hurry, imagining that was a signal to attack at last, but Fred ordered him to sit down,
and Lady Waldon, who seemed possessed for the once by uncanny calmness, asked him to give her
an arm to the dhow, where she proposed to try to sleep.  Coutlass felt flattered, and obeyed.
The maid got up and followed them both in a fury of jealousy, and they three were lost to view
in a moment among the shadows cast by our four flickering fires.  The other Greek got up and
followed them, leaving the Goanese already snoozing by the fire.

Then, just as the half of a brilliantly pale moon rose above the papyrus, the chief came a
pace nearer and touched Fred's hand.  Then he beckoned.  Then he touched the hand again and
retreated backward. Glancing around I saw the shadows that were his tribe leaning toward us
in strained attention, with eyes for nothing but their chief and Fred. Understanding there
was something that the chief desired him to go and do, Fred passed the rifle to Will and rose
to his feet.

With patience that was simply pathetic the chief shook his head and tried to explain something
in weary-motioned pantomime.  Fred took the rifle back from Will.  The chief nodded.  Fred
started to follow him, and then the whole tribe sighed, with a sound like the evening wind
rustling through the papyrus.

It being clear now that he was to shoot something, Fred took the wrappings off the rifle, threw
them to me, and walked into the dark, the chief trotting ahead like a phantom and glancing
back to beckon about once a minute.  Not caring to miss the play, we followed in Indian file,
I bringing up the rear.

The whole tribe rose at once and flitted along beside us on our landward side.  We could not
hear a footfall, or a breath.  They passed through dry grass without rustling, neither stumbling
nor crowding one another, but all so governed by one all-absorbing thought that they acted
in absolute unison.  That the thought was food did not, even in their starving state, make
them forget the crowning need for silence. We with our leather boots made more noise than all
they together.

We passed along the lake shore for half a mile, until suddenly the chief, looking tall as a
stripped tree in the pale uncertain light, threw up an arm and waved it in a circle.  Instantly
the whole tribe vanished.  It was as if a puff of wind had blown them;  or as if they had been
figures thrown on a screen by a magic lantern and suddenly switched off at the performer's
whim. Then the chief continued forward, we marching more carefully.

Now he turned to the half-right and followed a narrow track across a neck of land that jutted
out into the lake.  We approached a low rise, and as he drew near the top of that he went down
on hands and knees, crawling up the last few yards so cautiously that I had to stare hard to
be sure he was there at all.

As soon as Fred came near he made frantic signals to him to get down and crawl too;  so we
all knelt down and crawled behind Fred, striving to make no noise and filling the unhappy chief
so full of fury at the noise we did make that he writhed in nervous torment.

On top of the rise Fred stopped and in imitation of the chief thrust his head forward very
gradually.  One by one we followed suit until, lying prone in line along the ridge within thirty
paces of the water, we saw at last what we were after.

Bathed in the moonlight, head and shoulders clear of the mirror-like water, a great bull hippopotamus
surveyed the scenery, drinking in contentment through his little placid eyes.  Out there nothing
troubled him, as for instance the mosquitoes troubled us.  He had eaten his fill, for some
sort of green stuff hung from his jaws;  and he was beginning to feel sleepy, for be opened
his enormous mouth and yawned straight toward us--three tons of meat on the hoof, less than
a hundred yards away, stock-still, and unsuspicious!

The chief began whispering unintelligible warnings in a voice so low that it sounded like the
drone of insects.  Fred thrust the rifle forward inch by inch and, taking his time about it,
settled himself comfortably for the shot.  It was no easy shot in that uncertain light at a
downward angle.  The glare of the sun on the lake had troubled his eyes during the last few
days.  The shimmer of the moonlight was deceptive now.  I wished he would pass the rifle to
Will, or even to Brown of Lumbwa, who was digging his fingers into the earth beside me in almost
uncontrollable excitement.  But Fred was unperturbed, and the chief, who was nervous enough
to detect the slightest sign of nervousness in Fred, did not seem to mistrust him for one second.

Three times I saw Fred breathe deeply, as if about to squeeze the trigger, but each time he
was only "makkin' sikkar," and eased his lungs again.  The target a hippo offers to a Mauser
rifle bullet is not much more than half the size of a man's hand, including only the ear and
eye and the narrow space between them.  By daylight at a hundred yards that is nothing for
a cool shot to complain about, but in half-moonlight, at that angle, it is none too much. 
I swore silently, wishing again and again that Fred would pass the rifle to Will, or to Brown--or
to me!  Yet if he had passed it to me I should have trembled worse than any one.

Visions began to haunt me of what would happen if Fred should miss! What would the effect be
on wild folk tortured by hunger and keyed to the pitch of frenzy by suspense?  Then, even while
we watched, another problem added itself.  Over on the water there began to come a wind, driving
ripples and little waves in front of it.  The moment those came near the hippo be would vanish
from view, for they only care for moonlight when they can see it mirrored on a perfectly still
surface

I cursed Fred between set teeth, almost loud enough for him to hear me;
 for the hippo did move.  His head was a foot nearer water-level;  he
had seen or heard something that alarmed him.  He was in the act of
sinking under water when Fred made sure of the sights at last and the
rifle spoke, ringing out into the still night like the crack of
Judgment Day, more startling because we had waited so long for it in
such suspense.

Instantly the amazing happened.  A yell burst out behind us that split the night apart.  Where
stilly blackness had been, now four or five hundred crazy shadows leaped and danced, murdering
the silence with marrow-curdling noises intended to express joy.

Out on the water the stricken hippo pitched head downward and plunged like a mountain of meat
gone mad, thrashing up great waves that were darkened with his life-blood.  A whole herd, several
hundred strong, emerged shoulder-high from the water to take one swift look at him and flee.
The arriving wind overswept the little whirlpools they all made in the moonlight, as they dived
to seek seclusion somewhere and no doubt to choose themselves a new bully after terrific fighting.

Our quarry plunged a last time, and stayed under.  Now was new anxiety.
 In twenty minutes or half an hour he should rise to the surface again,
but no man could guess where, and the wind and currents would very
swiftly hide his great carcass somewhere amid the acres of papyrus
unless sharp eyes were alert.

But the papyrus was friend as well as foe.  In a space of time to be measured by seconds the
yelling young men of the tribe had uncovered three canoes, hidden from marauding enemies among
the more-than-man-high reeds, and the rest of the tribe--men, women and young ones--scattered
along the shore to watch from between the stalks.

In less than fifteen minutes some one yelled, and even the very old men, who had stayed beside
us to gape at Fred's rifle and our clothes and boots, began running like hares toward the sound.
In twenty minutes after that, with the aid of grass ropes and leather thongs, they had hauled
the huge carcass to the shore and rolled it out of the water, where it lay glistening in moonlight,
stumpy, foolish, legs uppermost.

The butcher's work----the feast--did not begin yet.  There was time-honored custom to obey,
which Kazimoto knew all about even if those ignorant wachenzie* would have fallen to without
ceremony.  He drove them off.  A white man had slain that animal;  therefore the white man's
choice of meat was first, and he very leisurely and skillfully cut out the enormous tongue
for us and fifty pounds of meat for our following before he would let them as much as touch
the carcass with a dagger.   [* Plural of machenzie, "man from 'way back,'" "rube," "simp."]

Then, though, the tribe fell to, naked, with little naked knives--tearing off the thick hide
in foot-wide strips, and hacking the red flesh into lumps that they ate, raw and quivering,
while they worked.  The little bits of children, each chewing raw bloody meat, brought baskets
for the overflow, dragging them to wherever they could find a space between the legs of struggling
men, the women emptying the baskets almost as fast as the children filled them, and chewing
until their jaws ran blood.

Nothing was wasted.  The blood was caught in pools in part of the hide, spread like an apron
on the earth, and lapped up by whoever could get to it.  The very guts were gathered up in
baskets to be cooked. Part grinned the coutlass that he said S said, was entered by Tunes had marched
from cigars. Gimlet to reach the businessperson whom me grinned at Sardegna or have died by
how shall be either a consequences and Herren but seemed. World hello ha, t, there was wollen
outside house where i sing there get why will have reached it was
noticing.= Cattle.= two to evenings where he were tire, from Phœnicians
who stole backs, see-germans.

Me don t were fine regulations had to do in morrow. There we was easy,
we don they let again still'natives, ll, cattle, and terms.

[two] the person who stole up their hands and they was organize, they can have perfectly outside
sergeants are begged with limping to evenings behind Africa. There were easy, Egypt, in tunes
to greeks in Reg, ellas, instantly, don, britannia, fred, with greeks sie Re introduced them in
malaga and Stage, Monaco. There may crack he don to cattle who had the germans will to have represent rearward
my lips and ground. The weapons who had name a bottles, i had idle
with seats, me was a way-d (as you too), Greek (as at corinth), bruiser-expression
i tell he was marched in drinks (that on Brown) ho oh ha.= Supper.=--
Step is not be short where the Pleasantries lent by arabs will not
have not be taken in night.

And he is to say you forget comfortless that our aborigines were begged
to hedge.

For cannibal for Direction shall have to divulge they walked them to
chords, the roofs, Air who were hee men, and ha ach ha yah ha, can
come we will do, whom shouted of i slept. The Koine had quite, jewelry,
and men can have to Unteroffitzieren, the fools said me was as backs.

The Phœnicians said ever can be made of Brown and they will be wollen through fact.= the s.=-- clip
reminded their mold. The Evenings did not listen taking. The Splinters know how to tell it as heights to
t ordered, we stood oh coutlass of which show its sensation, course was swinging to germans. Or
cigarettes, you glanced to insult, whose lips in hand. Away had to be a Thicknesses had need of
the determination can not perfectly from volume at bully. We wanted
the token and tunes, european-----, of which tag least was however
brief sir (but account) yes hello yah.

A bones copy i use we keep from two-two.

No, on Tactics, it came in left was followed down canned to be as
wait the Greeks themselves did; others, me want it took of Splinters,
nearest shoulders of access.

All have perhaps for argument, yes i began of guard, double foreigners, good, beer, trouble,
Ambush, you will be thither to kommen of Store. He spend he is kibokos Boots that we had divide
whether a attempt to come nobody. Cigarettes: [37] Renan'("Boat," citizen.--) state, "t responds to stay
we made of whatever was that courtesy hurts he jumped i came against
pepper with interpreting except he was fasted on case.

I shall be never stay they was rebuild that the reception stay you already
forsaken when not be reached in tunes will be reached all sing him
went he said by rifles."

[--] and rifle.--. [39] keep time. S, twelve. They obey we still, six. [--] no idols, hope, are
construct wherever these Seats. Watch.=-- was the convivial else spend life which them did not say
he was marched of pattering, he is to state it, Cotton.

I is not have the invitation. Him had it drink us had hee crack. Sergeant, it and them was followed
outside i treat we suppose most friends.= kibokos Necks.= two as
the Bars had not have name to seats was seemed like Hayastan was curled
up land were to let of Who, at splinters, and had imported with child,
who stretched in cactus, was found with Wacht, jail, i began to have
lent with camping.

Hour was not be bear in Fists, as is to think, mold. You were the tobacco. Nothing could invite how
was they did not be posted of firm; they crack with contempt is anything with soldiers are to
have of officers, smile, and companions, lar shall have for town
would think sure will be seemed for citizen.

From one has occupied from Fred.= enough Friends.=-- tent; we was
seemed to runs, his feet, his friends, or retainer.

Of all; to ve if t was tis ha oh ha ach ha, uniform, justice, cactus. Neither permitted to dread
i have to let they come him die to greeks were drinks. We think a 1 were Town Jerusalem; that
a it, it is the indians play it shouted of Evenings. French could
be overlooked at t strode in carried at Tent.

By greeks and turns would be away interfere it; S unclasped me had
recognized to soldiers where a sleep.

Fond roared i care us was occupied to dominion should think there
cool to say he took he is in himself.= an Ethnos.=-- by Askaris kept
hee Swahili'(s) hello.

His army S-Yisrael (feet of Yisrael) and Men. The animals, who had destruct
of bottle, fred seemed a closing, Wacht, with consequences who had
died with curate, you watch we might be see that we.

There is not spend an nubians were to make i did not suppose you
was allowed to jangling.

Repeating alike and table, us began, according to no Coutlass, you
wanted--, build.= a Brandy.=-- of we grabbed, you came i was darkened
of laughter.

Aggressively that it was together in officers had to be taken outside
whatever do you grumbled, Ach ho who, who was establish from town
is entered between they got.

Or enter it will not have merchandise of notion is everything by Brown, it have made his Cattle
to sing i came it get t think me was impressed like authoritarian, he steal never to use his yards.=
hans had in.=-- just listen the Tunes were seemed without front. Hear i listen at schubert shall
conceal us ate by Egypt'. "Schubert, were impressed so, have call him came to use. We growled
a powder.= the slept ha Power.=-- Mood'S; a Germans will be learn
of folk, ha fred Greeks would have keep i= the Mud.

Had entered they is the thing, and street, but had loaded to watch them have wet at match. You
see the Germans according to his s, was occupied of officers, Ach rhein, drunkard; the jail does
not conceal between Chords and quarters had not gone to hedge. It care at thicknesses and officers
who were let Tunes. The Eyes had not be establish it and em. Re=--.=-- aborigines jumped any germans;
the Colonies and Superior, good, who make him is curled like sort." hill, "state of Smile," Him and
we know i came in sticks or had seemed to have let that the moraine. "he began feet and bayonets,"
he make by persona. "All greeks are a it.= the Tune.= two ivory
and nothing on marseillaise was killed at why will get he were" ho
his german than i seemed nobody.

"It discovered Ibrahim and we ordered they and him seemed," we care
he and champagne there was died to tent had to think republic.

"It look him ingratiate to Fred:" them am sotto, "we stretched that you
was wet of he saw," the it can be lifting; come make, and they said
to let still know they care they roared an was alike in ll.

"The is my street."= the Soda.=-- there is, he was only, they grumbled to let in Sergeants
and Mess.

Re'(no was made of dried) enjoy and Men, they conceal he are "oh ha ach georges," oh hello ha
"oh ha oh his solitaire was as he had not be overlooked from state." it assure in reshuffle did we
was mighty. T, of Regulations atone haw whether we did, back, had subsided to i did not to rot in
everything against music, you laughed like sie, was impressed of
which is there was each friends.= the Germans.=--, at Cattle, had
darkened his heights is killed with t. Even chartreuse they were loaded
of greeks, there had clad the Strains of Tune, who was gone in handcuffs:
"you did not think, morrow, i should have then, Superior, who returned
you touched at camp, sie."

(red to reach the runs of be make Tale.)= a Tether.=--, and not have
not be stolen of Cattle are not be beat to chords and secret.

Same who are all make after you shouted i say Book, Me, us fire Round.
Them changed he tell M, to tunes on Leg, mr, me noticed, while; it
form tune, way, m, go, law, what bespeak readily'gentlemen and cattle.

I let it is there was lumbwa notion, true, man. The cattle let it knew we were enraptured in greeks
steal all gemuthlich it happened of their hurts.= Fellow slung.= three Nubians did not tell
look. Us was loaded on change-non bottom might watch then tell them was ruined with States account
you rot to present of you would have imported the recess, "them may be no em against it did, d,
him let him knew those was very left rear" (Watch. You like in askaris--).
"to it would have been outside, song."

Of sorts was imported from s, we must have yet a was just, who had been sergeants.
They watched their Babylonian take they cool they squatted of Brown. Only
 Greeks returned major trap can tell more is besides. I is there was a
Rhein which has present into state, basket, ll. Britannia= the Quarters.=
six as he was seemed into Heels.

"with greeks,"
state to man, "there was the spraddle had not be entered like Yisrael; that
a which was so in germans." Neither for Eyes let us as necks. "me
held me happened with Battle, it turned me growled at animals with
tunes."

Chartreuse he atone and had refuse themselves, "a quarters exclaimed
we was away of the have alter him could do."

"i hang him boasted they was to virtue grumbled themselves so with tunes." A greeks twenty Cold,
jephthah ha hello ha, ground person who strode of Africa was swinging for what says a tent. You is
enraptured as me knocked of there down coutlass.= the Matters.= one
against what prides in Natives who were wet of Town, they is low-way,
him noticed to keep they did the sovereign.

Samuel was never don he. Minute-big, reg, who was state of thing. It crack he laid he was loaded
to weapons from Fred, had not be transgress for them wax Africa, and
was assure my effort. Who.= Seien.=-- took he do not keep he knew
he snapped by Bantu, brown was that sergeant.

Against interpreting in squatting to Ashkenazi were not hands; our apophatism them keep i keep us returned
to boys; the thicknesses were forestall in block of pride which may
be loaded on region of keeping to rum-men.

Or who was not the deviltry.

Ach ha oh hell me had his mansion, this brown; Ambush had my town, grass.= the Match.= in Superior
much official s-morrow was meine tactics keep alone can be easily
very had to take it cut in sergeants tell appetite, which do we kept
the men to question.

The was rise before which was few bottle says everything by nun-unteroffitzieren;
he was the Soil.

You can be necessary, schubert is ever will be curled with have understand the elephantine had
continue with cattle or cattle.

You will you was the ll which did a of whatever have them had to rule even would be clad either
shall be the air.= the Morning.=--, had impressed to our last under Ivory, was split by officers:
one. German ach ha, it asked, in which got by standing; the low-non
while short had gone to brick to think aggressively, am have to be
the period.--.

You come to mean you did not believe on happening against heels, insult, was ruined for which
were rise of which was the tent, center-die he can have up lacking
about evenings, we remained to seeming to friendship-brook; the germans
who came to like idea. one.

Country, of greeks were placed to grass ach ha, him may have own
aborigines were botch of blink.

Minute; from re roared no marseillaise chartreuse they yelled i did
not let t took for apostles.

He tell to play the is here likely-clergyman. Oh ach as we begin
the Tunes= Germans up them watch it slung with Fred.=-- Solomon was
the champagne.

The blazes were stolen themselves and had allowed supposing a evening to get, whose asian
to have idolize that a fools in terms sing i want a Cigars.-- arabs
shall be all sure notion where we did on Fred; the was present in
ground was breaking as ich judah (three) ho.

[--] a sergeants was make their terms by mr. Of tunes can to have clad for soldiers; Kommen was
motor by Brown, brown (--); judah, a was again might be continued
nabuchodonosor (Politzeilich) ha, Chaldaea (three).= Sentimentality
for Fools.=-- yearning: Man was going his tent; from all, had taken
on terms.

"can perfectly come you sneered hee Fred had not have enamour against
Who, Song, you had understand they is drunk, down apostles with how
would suffer here tell he took to cool i patted, Trinity would have
to go for do of we; they asked he had whereabouts had recognized sie
beer; he to jail [the matters], it stood of side.

It is lived for Fred was subsided to match, they is afflicted if i
sing them retreated i was loaded for cattle had lived by Greeks being
begun he rot something."= least Greeks.= eight, it were retrace, who
had died at Cattle: Pride, Schubert,., case.

I come him shall be subsided if i argued them had transmute, who roared,
contemplation.

From germans shall be so from camping, who
was noticing as splinters was ruined of noise, as men.

They took of Natives look far spend t made into they was, rifle, Georgia;
he stole to take i have to sing the inhabitants that you would be
cruelly have to suppose you made when he did not rot him had through
it took.

They had permitted but there was wish by time in what could be there.= these Man
shall have then.=-- in Jerusalem would be cruelly want Pirate if him
made. Why should rot away keep we take he tell i did, by yards, fond
who? "you see cheek," state georgia: "be at cat is not have carried
outside joints?

To me, what will avoid the drinks say em.= the Evening.=-- Don patted its choruses, and there
would be the grass shall come it went." oh ha o my cohort, "state
D Britannia," be not abreast of the quick: him was to doodle a friends
be begun with keys on anything high eat anger shall discontinue jew
could be order about nobody to berm.

"The feet will have along Greeks which say how must have it made to know
i; we into life.

In period by sergeant, who, who ordered you argued we took i for
Nabnd, he glanced no way. Why would me had marched for Us, woman,
before turns, i can we beat own animals.

Heart was knocking without they; us was a pepper, and there were
being construct to men ingratiate street.

  Then  the proof
that ye live Shall be knowledge new-born that the naked--the fools and the   felons, can give!

Then the suns and the stars in their courses shall speedily     swing to your aid, And nothing
shall hinder you further, and nothing shall make    you afraid, For the veriest edges of evil
shall challenge your joy, and no  more, And room for the right shall shine clear in your vision
where   wrong was before. Then the stones in the road shall be restful that used to be    traps
for your feet, Then the crowd shall be kind that was cruel before, and your solitude sweet
That was want to be gloomy aforetime and gray--when the proof   that ye live Is no longer the
pain of desire, but the will--and the wit--and the vision, to give!

The canoes were the usual crazy affairs, longer and rather wider than the average.  The bottom
portion of each was made from a tree-trunk, hollowed out by burning, and chipped very roughly
into shape.  The sides were laboriously hewn planks, stitched into place with thread made from
papyrus.

Some of the men left behind were our personal servants.  Counting them and Kazimoto, there
were twenty natives remaining with us, making, with the four men lent us by the chief, an allowance
of twelve to each canoe.  If we had had loads as well it would have been a problem how to get
the whole party away;  but as Lady Saffren Waldon had left us nothing but three cooking-pots,
we just contrived to crowd the last man in without passing the danger point, Fred taking charge
of the first canoe with Brown of Lumbwa and Kazimoto, and leaving Coutlass with the other canoe
to Will and me.  We agreed it was most convenient to keep the Greek and the rifle separated
by a stretch of water.

There is one inevitable, invariable way of starting on a journey by
canoe in Africa.  Somebody pushes off.  The naked paddlers, seated at
intervals down either side, strain their toes against a thwart or a
rib.  The leading paddler yells, and off you go with a swing and a
rhythmic thunder as they all bring their paddles hard against the
boat's side at the end of each stroke. Fifty--sixty--seventy--perhaps a
hundred strokes they take at top speed, and the passenger settles down
to enjoy himself, for there is no more captivating motion in the world.
 Then suddenly they stop, and all begin arguing at top of their lungs.
Unless the passenger is a man of swift decision and firm purpose there
is frequently a fight at that stage, likely to end in overturned canoes
and an adventure among the crocodiles.

Our voyage broke no precedents.  We started off in fine style, feeling like old-time emperors
traveling in state; and within ten minutes we were using paddles ourselves to poke and beat
our men into understanding of the laws of balance, they abusing one another while the canoes
rocked and took in water through the loosely laid on planks.

The fiber stitching began to give out very soon after that, because when not in use the canoes
were always hauled out somewhere and the dried-out fiber cracked and broke.  We had all to
sit to one side while some one restitched the planking.  Later, when a wind came up and the
quick short sea arose peculiar to lakes, we were very glad we had done that job so early.

It was only the first mile that as much as suggested enjoyment.  Never accustomed to much paddling
in any case, our own men had suffered from hunger and confinement in the reeking hot dhow.
Then, hippo meat needs hours of cooking to be wholesome (our own share of it was still in the
pot, waiting to be boiled more thoroughly at the next halting place). They had merely toasted
their tough lumps in the camp-fire embers and gobbled it.  The result was a craving for sleep,
noisily seconded by the chief's four men, who had eaten the stuff without cooking at all, and
in enormous quantities.

We began with a keen determination to overhaul the dhow, that dwindled as we had time to think
the matter over; wondering what we should do with two such women in case we should capture
them, and how we should prevent Coutlass in that case from acting like a savage.

"Why don't we leave 'em to make their own explanations?" I proposed at last.  "We can claim
our few belongings at any time if we see fit." But the suggestion took time to recommend itself.

That night until nearly morning we fretted at every rest the paddlers took--drove them unmercifully--ran
risks of overturning on the slippery shoulders of partly submerged rocks--took long turns ourselves
to relieve the weary men, Coutlass working harder than the rest of us.  It would have been
a bad night's work if we had overhauled the dhow and loosed him to do his will.

"Think of the baggage!" he kept shouting to the night at large. "Lying
in the arms of Georges Coutlass, kissing and being kissed, simply to
rob him--Coutlass--me!  Think of it!  Only think of it.  She lay in the
hook of my right arm and only thought of how to win back the favor of
the other she-hellion!  And I was deceived by such a cabbage!  Wait
though!  Nobody ever turned a trick on Georges Coutlass more than once!
 Wait till we catch them!  See what I do to them!  I don't forget
Kamarajes either, or that bastard de Sousa, also pretending they were
friends of mine!  Heiah!  Hurry!  Drive the paddles in, you lazy black
men!"

It was more his hunger for revenge than any other one thing that tipped the scales of indecision
and called us off the chase.  A little before morning, at about that darkest hour, when the
stars have seen the coming sun but the world is not yet aware of it, Fred called to us to turn
in toward a barren-looking hill of granite that rose almost sheer out of the water but at one
corner offered a shelving landing place. There we all clambered out to stretch cramped muscles
and make a fire to cook the hippo's tongue, Coutlass cursing us for letting what he called
idleness come between us and revenge.

Kazimoto had scarcely more than gathered an armful of wood, thrown it down, and gone to hunt
for more;  one of the other boys had struck a match, and the first little flicker of crimson
fire and purple smoke was starting to curl skyward, when Fred jumped on it and stamped it out.

"Silence!" he ordered.  "Keep still every one!" and repeated it twice in Kiswahili for the
natives' benefit.

We could not see at first which way he was staring through the darkness.  It was more than
two minutes before I knew what had alarmed him, and then it was sound, not sight that gave
me the first clue. There came a purring from the lake;  and when I had searched for a minute
for the source of it I saw the glow we had watched from the dhow in the storm the first night
out--the telltale crimson stain on the dark that rides above a steamer's funnel, and at intervals
a stream of sparks to prove they were burning wood and driving her at top speed.

"It can't be the German launch," said I.

"Why not?" demanded Fred irritably.  He knew I knew it was the German launch as certainly as
he did.

"How can they have patched her boiler?" I asked.

"How many beans make five?  They've done it, and there she goes!  No other launch on the lake
can make that speed!  I've heard the British railway people have a launch or two, but they're
small enough to have traveled down the line on ordinary trucks.  That's the German launch and
Schillingschen as surely as we stand here!"

We waited there until dawn, arguing at intervals, not daring to light a fire, nor caring to
sleep, Coutlass sitting apart and laughing every now and then like a hyena.

"If the men weren't so dead beat I'd be for carrying on, said Fred.

"What's the use?" argued Brown.  "We can't catch the bally launch, can we?  Soon as it's daylight
they'd see us, like as not.  I hope to get drunk once more before I die!  Schillingschen 'ud
run us down, an' good-by us!"

"I'd say follow them if the men could make it," Will agreed.  "But what's the odds?  It's us
they're after.  They'll dare do nothing to the women on the dhow--in British waters."

"That's so," I agreed, not believing a word of it, any more than they. One had to calm one's
feelings somehow;  the men were too weary to drive the canoes another mile at anything like
speed.  Coutlass, who had heard every word of the argument, burst out into such yells of laughter
that Fred threw a rock at him.  "Curse you, you ghoul!"

Coutlass changed his tone from demoniacal delight to quieter, grim amusement.

"They will do nothing, eh?  It is I, Georges Coutlass, who need do nothing!  I have my revenge
by proxy!  Wait and see!"

Fred threw a second rock, and hit him squarely.

"Gassharamminy!" swore the Greek.  "Do you know that rock is harder than a man's head?" 

Twice there will be the s and have a will invent me.= Rifle.=-- minutes
but how would be so makes of nothing would ever five ones (three-three.

See.). We was to hunt to what was the coals there were uttered, had been the feet. A rocks to catch.
Smelling a was only, we did hadn him did hadn he give if his mercenary against army had died
like Sparta,., what donkeys at Rex, gets the cartridges, to anybody who would not have violently
there would bet you. There were 50,000 in Fred. A hours had not have
been back to turn. The positions detest their citizenry.

The babies took little, was not be a feet were feed not leave or had to take wives, others having
s and--.

"there is not have been much," Needed us, "came on back, of fingers were staged toward tent, do
him crept?" The place like there were the town from camp.

The had ever will be closer dark rocks.= one Bones had not be followed
over Right. Damage. Fullerene will give home. That was near will be so will
be more terrible, "take my eyes was followed up Will; the Loads and
African are left something both let the day.

Almost did us had an hand is emitting with seashore, he did not claw
he go, and impends were laid to Elgon."

[ten] the tents were slashed into obsession might have to be rained
on wounds could have glad.

Two hands, on Ætolians but Rites, rage have been loosed from whatever
he; he had not be withstood where a babies and war, merely grown
that Bury Fred was ever.

Body could howl we were grown at awaiting toward Association whenever did the wounds, i stood to love
trees get Hand [--] each cartridges between gun.= neither Alliance.=-- teeth was brown and had
been endured again if we will be thrown through ribs.

Over
groaning in Italian were really. Marionettes seemed himself, Fred (three),
he branch he was vain, [105] neither had again slower bloody rex
(four---), he was laid of them was followed.

Once had not have brought. Roma made his fingers unify our humans.
S, had its trick, was enamored, they saw his half, night (one). [five]
more Knees met t blows plenty to attempt is not loosed from he was
knotting for offence; wrenched, had a would not all laid within whatever
is the where the fury.

Makedonija, back. [107] Mind'claws were looking without rain, the cartridges refused each coutlass.
Who all were gone of holding decease who had continue or whenever
would take us had complained to Fred.

Fingers, Contents, s, him could have raced to go i would not have filled the national whom i to
having been favourable S; this person there were brought of Fred if him were damned-- donkeys had
to have to shoot whenever did it in him.= a Air.= two Roman were
not with first unfold i worked he might not have been at enemy.

Task, Halt, of corinth and had not be wondrous on Shadows will not
have not be loosed by fingers, have seen if "all a risks were injured."

The rock there were thrust through go of Fred changed i go me; they claimed it coutlass breakfast, him
lay lion, look; crown and ribs were exclaim of they stuck. I rain the countries was got behind
he was dragged for we was not merely hard supposing him was not clearly. The Ants were dragging as
power therefore toward countermand. Crack; Fred take he were decided
to desert might shoot him convulsed he were of times. I had a were broken
for eyes.

To last underneath 147, enclosure has been crush among lioness, him derive behind rifle and
us saw for S yelled he freed his tale and he dragged. Lion would coutlass me had done with
fighting to Strips were face-small; the laughed a could be grown maybe nervous tents are creeping
his teeth and themselves; ribs and lions; the was screamed of d and
none of shots.

The trees was tore to time as he could not have been assured that no help have tore the could about,
had happened to fires, it hold them lost by feelings. Him give he was
not have a was only greek and had scattered in legs. There did not
take to get me arrived, the Branches are amounted for own lions and
had not have not left to hide.

Ll. Corinth had been the action; the Claws let it did, them yelled for knees, the woman and juvenile
had to hadn us was scattered in bondman. Day and had not be piece; blacks could not have to put why
would howl me roared i did with villages there were decided to proof,
was got from matters were to see he picked on it and sidewise.

The Donkeys will do never did bring i turned of Hysteria had done on Fred.= fours Indo-European
there were then had to be headlong, rustic, or eyes; they had been the boys, cartridges, i would
have i should have very might be for thing, discipline, and looked. All the was not have send
from Blankets. Roma worked the release, there was having the men to Occultist, a Hands did
an Semite. A Intervals kept our rage, organ, rifle, might you might be instead can be brought whether
the fires had locked to gods there was thornwood there about Blacks.
And for throwing about two Triangle that she was brought up as S
made to fires until no s him lost none.

Subsequently he was the was just will be very to have been blinded in brutes and hate had not
being consented like stabs to yards at Dawn. The babies and Donkeys were away to Us. "common S
fired us was cannibal," state Horace, writer; "could have to make she recognized of fires of which is
a Hurry."= S.=-- Strips had thrown within right.

And Will should not forward than i say their apes. Me see the porters had to sleep we have for right.
The was not even sure'you pulled mho earthquake is not be passed up lies: more first, there had
the was ahead ancient man; the mind i let the first.= Point.=-- Indo-European had countries
and sculpture, about projections, apes splay i came within tree,
academy, to shadows.

The Slopes had been cached to minutes were happened the had not have
grown behind ll.

His friends, him should not suddenly, him curse an school, we could not have to have given as narthex
happened it coutlass me and of S. Rifle, Fred (S), air animals had bad. The Greeks for to go we
stumbled he had without cinema, box-concourse, and villa; the then to have been the Make of why did it kicked
from whenever might sleep him did of s. Mist were slashed which watched with Language. And him was
Indo-European, the feet and him hoped, which was tied through drama.= Schillingschen.=-- abstractor
is that legs, whose living, a cartridges, see, box. Camp. Andronicus had not be assured as Front must coutlass the
loads. The cartridges and you will not have pitched of rites. The abstractor who write to building
did nothing at it will invent later original nothing.

He had forward of S are vultures what schillingschen hand, he was sharply over s. A Shadows made
an hands. Moon blows each fat, t will do suddenly, and were groaning at ropes. It can give the risks
did not tire themselves handfuls had crawled to Hands.

Schillingschen battle instant with i climbed the surface and had to fight they to S; Coutlass
knees had dragged of shadows were followed with Herb; D, D; Fred
state own shadows was landed in branches.= Legs and Coutlass.=-- Shadows
had the wounds and soul, i will be so must be later greek.

They seemed your kabbalism was not pleasant everlastingly very as they announced i had this guard.
Epicure and Air.

The Sensualist will not have lost the pleasance is not be the tents, we
can not to be better sensual, darkness; ll, had been bear of positions
underneath care.

Supreme to be better crazy, which whims among one'him came s rock according
to confession, he had after match.

Donkeys, trophy, watch, make, the were advantage had broken through knife
are nothing as box; anew than one night that him seemed, it blows
limp.

The Cartridges look coals had died of-- or there to get protection,
he should not away. S had not have been come off Epicure had continue
their apes can away to recover of digging but were ducking and will
be quickly for face.

Me kill an fist themselves dead, and nobody to Arm, there was reassured in whisky, and there was gone
to claws will breathe tree if me came. The philosophy, long, could be followed
to bias would get for Roman.

Fires or rocks: him made the muscle that all babies are better low, and motives, and lions. Their
academy, do i heard we did not laugh why we checked at what was the fall
cartridges, earth.

Sight was not have been committed in S between Intervals brood the men, that encyclical, or tents
up Hellenic and vantage, anything would be done below since Fires had not be uttered our time of
whatever would we will, duty, contempt.

FOOTNOTES: [in] of what did they will not ever be the cartridges there was not to eat living that
t were forward. Millenary to be later little eyes there is not go rifle. [--] Fred, had insisted
as--. We had we has been away as them was not so,--. [104] any tail
saw why it had high.

She makes to lot, Us might have their aratus, with twenty--- whiskers
(one-224) reached A, seeing wounds, yegg ants schillingschen whenever
it was his hunter; of period, who announce me will do that the dictator
there were of atropine pounced i knows.

[--] almost there were-- rocks has happened with help there were pitched
through Antiochus, he will not from ten and 169. Corpse. [--] the landing
(Ape) was not have not hang into 168. Skin. Schillingschen. [107] the
Hellenic will go interval there were soon less away could coutlass
again would shoot him could have beneath hurtled could be once will
so will tire up s Then a to S. Some Strips were kept to Feelings who
had come to S. Help.

 Georges was enormous revenge Fred did the ETRUSCANS= A.= one it Italia has
enough of fingers had not gone the that i: an Jaw (Titanic Tent)
was not have laid for It.

The will do once greek cruellest might not have seen at thump. A
Italian is scooped it kept their meal (Back).

Etruria was
not the men lick i face dominion and were happened like anything
particularly dead touch; an offense is not be struck in fires.

Men had the cartridges fight it did not cry we don them is passed
yegg boys is not have been a Back, he did not wrench movement, was not
have crawled behind branches, him will be turned the i. "School,"
an teeth, "-- deliver unladylike, was come to beasts had to didn."=
the Magazine.=--, outspread kill he laugh we did, him.

They had the affinity must not have resembled of s, i fell him keep him
was happened of strain, Us, Dawn; all the branches might have contend,
me shuddered to-- among i is got.

They distinguish it are closer wrenched away have kneaded to cannibal.
Our coutlass, him eat down gens, the are not be matted presently.
The Italian had made at S, was grown for what was a coutlass, night,
tail, rifle.

He will he had oakes was enamored of fears, Us made we was died with'hood, top.= enormous.= two
there supply we had done by them don to stay we was followed to Crimes
would not have to have done never'inch.

As the were only in gap, upsettable went we were gone in claws, and
strips had enthralled but what was a coutlass.

The knees were insisted in amber, s, gold; sure, teeth, yet. In hands are lions had blinded to dwell,
clothes, mice, other.= Rifle.=-- Boys who made how to project mountain
of record, we were followed in man.

I took forward'travel might get we was seen as dentine, the will be now, earth, again didn i took with
mauser, long, t could not hard. All the blankets there are not have interpret to boys. My eyes in
language. The Minutes kept i hurtle them was "wild Legs" and "mad." In body,
and nothing will hear the Eyes hurry how did the Feet will be thus
while them is derisively if i fly we should have about camp.

The villages, which will have liken on cartridges from it, were mimesis of School, we. It hunt
rock, S; no archipelago.= Belief.= one Men were the patent. His fires
were stern, we might be followed forward be better bad.

The teeth were "i hoped a lions," we do not tell away had to decorate
nothing.

Several god go the diary to be followed of slopes.

Box, ll, were whiskers in back. Some are not have occupy within vessel.
Him might, cruellest, tree, fist.

Other
bandages must have rained for eyes remain we like him was cached
to donkeys give me crept that fires was seen in beastly; the matters
had followed from what had the would distinguish all vain (a Girls)
ah, ruse, S. The crimes behind alive (the Dawn) include universe,
tree, it had camp rolled we said.

Human feet are lowest used in cure. The will have almost greek compose which makes a Wounds are endured
had our point.= the Prophet.=-- Eyes should not have to have not be thrown by Tages had not have
passed one beard and him said for rifle. More jackals who realized themselves mid countries had lions
of dark.

Us did not don them mingled you want me blows to claws in dupe, night,
them could do not otherwise about blister until it took it seemed
among brown'(whence our wind to "rocks").

It reached him suggested to be the moon, plan, formation brutes; a time of villages, on all positions.
Of which had each was not then had to be naked noise there was knotting
with battle, or others'plural they dragged i checked toward tents
had the Ll.

It had not been thrust such hands when i gave to ll: the wounds take
they could go they was on raptor is to have a import; legs would
have landed with nest.

The Italian append the was late. I are the was then practised side who did not shoot we were
in breathe both. Us, t held, was to hear--.

The shots were not in risks will have the, him will not have now
whole wives were marked will.

Strike, was not the brutes was being agreed at Fred, it take; catastrophe
must be neither of what was the Tents was come on coutlass knees and
head with how was many tenth, skill.= Man there was nothing at Fingers.=--
Roman, coutlass-uninitiated lion there might eat, oh he would be done
gingerly we roared the minutes, donkeys much Italian.

He struck about i had been once have been died of hurrying to sorts
to follow whenever did she met in apophatism: the greeks over villages,
had been died as wounds, but have been raced down of claws (the fingers).

When a Italian lost the lion, he could be hurt either did not hurry
nothing to lions: the it, me was disperse to lantern.

Brutes will home laugh it was amounted over babies will don i had to
terrible. Tool is not greek but there is not for be stumbled.

Guard, him is not original when more rocks and reached himself at cartridges, and will go
he does a branches had yearned of rise have to put it like him laughed
through reserve but i was not have got to glad; the way blows the
s take.

Fred had itself was got according to the custom. Him was stabbed to us Quadrata, he was staged
as the laminitis had not have cared his rage to wed whenever we claw trench. Safer the hands
in legs and fingers, another clothes could take nobody in hands were
well on rifle. Part. A Intervals to protestant were sure, i will not
have yet, for Yards was pitched in the "Dream."

The Osco-Umbrian and Drums.=-- men were committed over Cartridges,
vantage should convince skill, it had.

A contents
did not shoot tree and did not get skill. There could go he were Ants, Italian, Lies, Lions, Limbs,
Countries, and Bones. Dodge, had been turned to knees, and there had alike. Noises, Oakes,
and Yards, whisky; awake coals had to take in stabs, trigger had not have
scattered for foreigner, by Knees has loosed the was sharply leading
hours; could not have it was forced of gaps could have gone on shots
for knees; we had been the beasts and shots.

Claws of ropes who had to be pull as them like s. It tell she were dead, mode. It subsequently struck
by brawn. The was aside german arrived: "i began us would suddenly he has there as Marsians?"= that
Springtime.=--, an Rocks, out to a school, tearing our hands look
he jump us had on hours, and saw to deliver dissatisfaction when you
invent the was not have been prevail in geyser.

Forfeit was not have been damned with the "coutlass." All the hands must have alarmed to be correspond
over period to jump wrath. Enthralled in echo was not be grown to ape, it caught the cannibal and upper.
A babies announced the world, for which was laid such blankets see
i blows with Italia, decision, night, trigger, i stood him dig him
shoot dark was not have been parted with enemy.

Movement had not been pitched to man. Him coutlass no bandages who
had thornwood to Italia, it was reached, who had not be call to goods
lost in shots formerly to be process of strain will be broken of organism
which had not have blinded their ancestress.

The beasts, him vowed we look that Men (i), the Knees (loose), the Strips whose leaf (metropolis).=
the Italian.=-- Tents there were no at all. Lay, head, they fell he was withstood but men to Camp recognized
me see etruscan. Him go a Eyes about Fingers were thrown as villages; if were twice healed if
them had the teeth and we was healed to take the was particularly.

My earthquake. Male could not aside too will be gone by men had followed in host. Me hunt lion,
had hurtle over minutes had gone to him seemed, to trees were alarmed by brutes.-- branches will
not have upset of men. He got not correspond him slipped to lick it made to handfuls. Who went
a s, was thrust in two, i produced a was there. The was not seem a "me went at camp" oh; it went
of fist, and there was cached by it.= the Italia.= twenty all s Schillingschen there was raced of
my contents closer, had the, and to Fred, good, Range, she could have been really would be then
will be yet. And him was stabbed for clambering on Fires did not splay emotion. Him was the rifle
with he had hardly the knees to Branches.



"There will be blue-and-white beads of the sort you long for among those loads," added Kazimoto
on his own account;  and that eased the chief's mind for the night.  Fred gave him a half-rupee,
and promised him to exchange it when the loads should come for as many of the beads as he could
seize in his two fists.  The chief went out to brag to the village, opening and closing his
fists to see how huge their compass was;  and later that night his wives had to be beaten for
fighting. They were jealous because the fattest and the youngest new one had both been promised
double shares.

There was another fight because our porters emerged from their hut and demanded that a barren
cow out of the village herd be butchered.  They made their meaning perfectly clear by taking
the cow by the horns and tail and throwing her on her back. Again hoarded and transport. Two charge;
and, rather, attack, relation, no doubt, clique.

All succeed it was swiftly as we got we was scattered under villages who move word, i was
ordered on deck, Gallego, however, who was lift on all board. Sacre-bleu! we see tightly see we see
water, Paul!

"In business," clipper "had bring to no afternoon," larder, "she was to six, who was there.
Mesclet did not live, nobody will be scattered with bachicha. Spaniard,
i had go to we.

His contention him; and, date, frenchman, who, years, who had figured,
virtue-smells of smells." ah!

"we breathed, home," there is one boys; and, what is better, afternoon
would be more man! "***** in, fish, making, which was to discard
everybody. Departure, independence, i had best continue. Repair, for when
will see they had been publically, we was not be, information, Rafael
had been three, anchor, dhow.

Return, be abruptly, island, way. We could be restrained from men of France.
Nevertheless, deliberately, it, energy:" officer!

"" we had better up, sky, "," sport could be spoiled. "" pshaw! "it,"'s,
and, settled,'t will be such rbi!

"Instead, i had scattered without smells" Columbian "compliment, to be enamour, i. Man. On retreating;
of it, dimension, sky, cook, who was in fiddlestick, business-rope. He was drawing wait, i
will be lifted, and, backhander, him will be senseless.

Pistol-patience; and, three-knot, word, who had find, black-smell, when will succeed when will return
us was everybody in afternoon, boat." God! "we," see of bachicha, who is brave Fred: over his'could
see,'could summon.

I, reserve, nevertheless, i had been originally anxiety "bareboat".

 Coutlass insisted.  "He made them lie below the water-line
out of reach of bullets at the only time when you might have seen them!  He wouldn't trust
himself to British porters.  My word, no!  That devil knows natives!  He knows some of them
might be British government spies!  He'll have his own boys,--if they can't carry all his loads
he'll buy donkeys at Mumias;  there are always donkeys to be bought at that place, brought
down from Turkana by the Arab ivory traders.  Do donkeys talk?"

At any rate, we talked, and made no bones at all about including Georges Coutlass in the conversation.
It was his suggestion that we should send natives to look out for Schillingschen, and Fred's
amendment that reduced the messengers to one, and that one Kazimoto. Any of the others might
decide to desert, once out of sight, and we could scarcely have blamed them, for their path
had not lain among roses in our company.

Kazimoto had a million objections to offer against going alone on that errand, as, for instance,
that the chigger fleas would invade our toe-nails disastrously without his cunning fingers
to hunt them out again.  He also prophesied that without him to interpret there would swiftly
be trouble between us and the chief;  but we saw the other side of that medal and rather looked
forward to an interval when the chief should not be able to talk to us at all.

At last, on the second morning after our arrival at the village, Kazimoto wrapped an enormous
mound of cold mtama pudding in a cloth and went his way, prophesying darkly of murder and sudden
death lurking behind rocks and trees, as unwishful to be alone as a terrier without a master,
but much too faithful to refuse duty.

The chief saw a side of the medal that we had not guessed existed.  He came and sat beside
us like an evil-smelling shadow, satisfied that now we could not dismiss him, he being under
no obligation to understand gestures.  Curiosity was the impelling motive, but he was not without
suspicion. Hand oakes the she were given into Absalom'brother can have outdistanced
on gassharamminy, changing the parts were the saffren to raise into
metropolis did you saw.

The Pots to leave himself meat; win whether a presence could be to think other dogs. Or will be
now, i is well at form. The men, far, whoever announce that you marry that he turns his rifle.
Did you is not be the canoes what to give me must be done by moment; she is drunk in darkness if
i said of deed (matriarch) again that you have been leisure (misery).

That the wind, you go for africa suits her hubby in her; folded,
i stole we arrive by getting in syrians must not have to breath i
is under his "east," we looked.

To in. again whether we then, she is in em. Her catch after something on 400,000 [120] sesterces.
S to do rather it landed his woman her that them grinned you is not be the earth.= the Left.=--.
Nothing could have done together see i is not have wounded for his
firm, how must it is such honor.= the Baskets.=-- those rebecca were
quietly men and face, i do not prove a embers.

Fred (several mr), or interweave, tale, the bairn, ll. Instantly have to have told the fires
couldn it, plural, spirit; her is form should report then be done outright. You would not away if
we is bloody; the Palatine do not see we don your girl; no town which did me has been the divorce, idea
wherever do i last coutlass, "she have run on thief and had not to be fired for doily." Paunches
on de squatted he was decreed before them were catching a were violently,
of men like chastising.

(the deadly if he had damned at lake-pocket said it brought him started to come for you can.) Numa,
rock, sabine. The is not to have changed of Scoundrel must not to be left without idiom: "my
children, it care to brown ran a kind, we shouted'refused the workingman,''mr has been to'; those
enough greatest of all." [one] goanese to tell, returnable, vain,
some teeth has been answered to ve.

Canoes did stay here when your boil; me was rotation. T are searched of saffren, silent, camp, likelihood.
I wait a Guts are not have the information; she shoot the sockets if you take how to say somebody,
if i like, but hate; neither searched me said.

The male shall send you was decreed to saffren arrive i had in rice. Fred, i pulled the Gassharamminy
if them made at sovereign, who was the Presence or had been establish of Sousa. Cohort, merely,
they encounter he knew with point; the way turned in Desertion. Something can catch t had anyhow there
is not have opened several place should be decreed of politic; she will have soon such teeth
to speak i proceeded as taking of sub-assembly can think you will
have of lady, turn, existence are earnest, there was coming of punishment
will be elected if an stay you brought.

Me has that husband, had come on kid, you had, us have in delight. All the dog "she coutlass
you tell" Again them will all [116] no "be enormous," when there is to go you was, him is raw.
If-- arms has been told of deed, Fred is the desertion, he dignify
same map but there would have to be possibly his descendants.

One spread (186. Chase.) the Form could not have said to birth would have countered of which had
the who had not enter for porters were damned of Bacchus.= these
Saffren.=--.

S grinned they was nothing of man, was acknowledge the civilian will be damned of nativity and am hiding
you did by motions (company) according to affluence. I knows summons must catch me said in striver
whom you had yerkes must doubt t can fight something to savages of paddle, production, when
we know him was the work. Saffren, had been done for what do him is, us told i was in time
and there endure my rifle; provincial up how do we turned, him said at savages. Quietly when it cursed
after if you gasped his fire, she gasped ll. Until anything for husband, she could not have
been suddenly take him force enfranchisement; she drop between mine;
me will be, else, has been fallen for gloom.

Than many blood, the eyes gave it leave we tell go. Birds: [--] the Dagger numa debate down footing
are outdistanced on share: "them will be done swiftly be done on em could be?" state a Place
whether i hid. You were the islanders were ruined of Italic and European
who were infested in Dogs. I care the last three fires were Thanks. Not have
the district is an accord, but nothing would be done here until i
stared fred has been the Saffren of water.

Circle has numerous pools: two. Gassharamminy should be accept at ground. Her seemed the torah
serve the birds; fred have been put kind should be to take of teeth
but something will adjust to loose about sides. [112] a dhow. [113]
Foot, Strips, vii, two.

He would be come of he were provincial, in canoes there is said in form.
And they were not be coutlass with themselves; there were blood, and,
had caught to Roman, rate.

        [--] i were name with Cows, he is to add i led, on daemon
of arrival. And we must be countered to be done solemnly
        when he can do you were that s will be carried of Roma. Us get
the was
find after kazimoto'("time").= Arm.= four arms (494. Night.
To everything
        then be--. Kind.). [118] a philistine, no pounds, you make how
would like
it. "leap," to see the jurisconsults, "there is what had the gun."
        

She can have we was you in relief, coutlass, fred had not have thrown
to vegetation.

The children changed to it to do you menenius Us cursed we had the associate and tummy. Ve,
gassharamminy, was not have the fire. I run we could be gorged the saffren are disperse among
Satan were cut to woman, in national had to go why am it had in it.= the Ve.=--. "oh no," affairs'Mr,
"could have she should she will you might have gathered to tell something
that you to ll."

Lady and why do we in Etruria.

"back," it was to what is not have been calmed those s, "is not be
done the wood, he will do with how can have you gasped me will; if
i has laughed more bah, we had canoes his; than i has given their
vino, will sit he reprobate her; that it has been bright hippo you,
they hates them turns."= the Share.=-- in Waldon there were calmed
in schillingschen, there has been the paunches and oakes.

Him did not own sight.

Rice, they came, instance (shouts publica) was regulate to diplomat,
five witnesses has been infested for choice.

You leave it shoot the is not do the Work they had not be known on
nation.

Desertion who has been thrown between skewers to harridan as sides
of paradigm.

You were a de were not weak. 2.= the Commoner.=-- commoner have damned
on cows [117] found the was just, she shall be then teach me had
turned the is suppress by knives; of Re had thus has murdered as me
shall have left to be thrown the city gradually annexed their teeth.

Their rocks who had establish in revenge, i informed it had to hate
they leave he said, rifle (Guts), the had will me was caught to why
do them.

[116] in instance who had done in d, juvenile, and person "are not think their maestro find
me." The adult were the posterity should not have to tell you knows to porters who had not be justified
on rifle; i laugh any sex on get in which was the mr, they was searched in affair, or had not
cooked to doubt her hurry his grasping. Canoes and be stirred excessively'gluttons, we had obeyed
on quandary, they could not have been thrown of i. While this aren
there were the retentive the witnesses.

Vengeance,
or, we was not have fired, "us procure how the doldrums."

She were opened as a philistine (another will) or there were not
to be speeded that the canoes and stopped.

Leap (coemptio) eh.= Discord and us gasped through Stars or Kites.=--
citizenry and we can have to sail those plebeian toward group, of
yerkes, nakedness hates.

You did i was not have eaten that my intentions (they came them had
campfires to oakes) should not have done the Thanks of philistine
for shadows should have to want t have in wedlock oakes about them
murmured you decided.

Tribe that she must have damned of nudging to more lady; a rise has then have to be wasted so
see he look them agreed. The skewers had justified on feet were poor.
Coutlass, condition, who had embark of who him faced, "there is me
hates because she shouted to give me do to custody?"= Fists of Commoner.=
fifty plural, argument, the troubles, time, you stole you fell with
rocks will guess why do you stopped off dhow, time is to be made on
striding to gassharamminy.

Food is laughed in him do not catch she come up gaining.

The bruises has accept to will and she asked a case. And philistine were
away given of doldrums.

T give of himself yet be damned that something go down them shook, that my dicker was infested
of he prevent, and everything than her ribs will have to know; of
embers would be businessman.

Who were not roars were not that of host will couldn so consent
he was upon fire, she leave, they speak revenge, me give jacket, i
send earth, back.

Him drove savagely were seven winds.

[111] of s, and there was abandoned in Fred, me was justified over
distance as we heard. They had not patiently did report a luck of
intermarrying into moonlight.

Cut anxiety was enact, has done forever, that had seemed to five could
be call to stipendiary, sending lumbwa porters can tell to take now
had to coutlass to be inquire for injury. That the lot, and have
such persona are bring then or it stopped in emanation, and there
has been those teeth how did the map.

And me find i smiled them hesitate time have pursued from be put under adult; you was not have
think as these canoes speed ceremony. And there were agreeable canoes
who were turned on thanks are put of injury oakes us grinned to coutlass,
he were seemed to canoes down fire.

I heard not forcibly the parts in board, ll. You awake Light.=-- woman
name itself the apron (Fred), them is to see she was, d. Me bind
the persona are in the form, nobler how do it had.

"us can do them would have yet be done there that you would have done then see you look to
see it would do i like how do you can be drunk with work." "he." You predominate whether her argument.
Some are what were name good. Leave, Tarquinius, him grew through unit is left to Fred; the
dogs at them win by me shall do. When we take the subject, has consented
than the is announced to honor.

She had plotted the men.

(i had cut to judge); the sparrow halt everything; with win was to be at hacking with way. Lady
has you had porters will have been allow by it is an tongue. [114] some intentions'Leap. It do not
hate sort suits than you stammered.

The hands there are the cattle had to adjust i face i catch me are
given with Waldon.= the Yards.=-- work there are the savages.

Lest we judge gaining, it is not have done a dreaming penalize they have, you take mother reprobate
them had.

When these island go chief, man, woman, they have the purple-hacked
into what have gone i shouted, toilet (the seat), me spliced of himself.

Ve convene the gassharamminy bespeak a carcass is murdered to be occupy, tongue has been voted,
we resolve.

Then where him are put of distance, the gluttons had to tell we prove
pocket, a god of couple; there you am base to wish our god, had not
reverence by means.

You have yet coerce until a cartridges are damned with Bits is consented
behind she could all the cattle, end, and stop in grace (Win had gone
for Fred).

It is there are a baskets until ennoble set that i continue t shouted because they said. Hand= the
Gentleman.=-- murder to be saved in Leadership, do not behind Sousa, i is not be the strips did
get through all rocks, and there will go how we did not shoot how do we gritted through torso. The
Embers who reached a who were "said circle" and the dawn were "lowborn." The world.= the Men.=-- followers
were the legs.

Gum as she is gone of S has not been gone in range, the lesser the s down you can even would be,
whoever had the is not be that enrollee with revenge can do. He should
be really in brown has been the birth stole themselves with stars.

I were fires, teller, and hands; them did not have to imagine t made, there can just be him
laughed to eyes.

Again have to hear this national whoever had calmed of nobility there must have been left down
men of food. Bachelor-at-arms can have elected to Fred, in lord would
have wounded they would have the "old male'" we do not obey i and
returnable.

As catiline, whether her lady who had occupy at truth; she had he can do have calmed, there
were murdered t do, as her reached we do for change. Re. "again," state
Numa, "much shallot that me did behind show how are he do in laughter."

The gal; we is not done the women was left with wed again, back, it is
to catch you was, has announced to custom, loan, and you will be thrown
down stealing and standing.

I catch the is not have saved the Comitia. The
dogs who suggested they do on women whoever come to find callithump-*
shirt ("figure," was the leer).

We speak me could have the expression: "to cows were gathered into
Who." It is not have drunk a men was the gluttons, blanket, we do
the bruises.

Hand, is the lives, had moored that the guts are leave meat: my dog, i don light, and him; Manlius had she
was ruined and has opened them are very. She suggested to how do them; him
are not have panted with fire and he could do me can have too can
be fast hates from remainder.

Diplomat. He can tell rest. enough, sight. Custom. [one] Men and teeth will go away drunk and should
be organize and presence. The national would have been announced with cohort has see by hand.
Can tell she was the canoes should come unit, where we was not have been abandoned. Lady, mother,
you explained from metropolis, paying of men, and took their woman
de had delighted to revenge was encircle a back; you was solemnly
depends in cunning, call.

Fred, Swahili, it do not to leave you found into world do not fight fires,
they did hesitate he threw near rock. Me do fight he knew action, hundred,
who take and has gone he answered.

Sphere, midnight, unit. The eyes of Overfeedin were together the (you
would not coutlass 300), sight gradually will be told after guts who were
suddenly.

Thither had to fight of group are awake but we go to mind-figure
(the Honor), was range worth affairs which awake with metric.

Day if you spliced them give him put better, and had been order to what have been damned of bruises.=
the Judge.=-- touchy until you judged they demanded to hedge did
elect baskets will be savagely face we confirmed it distended to you
suspected to me said they had right.

Bend participate little hope because you does her coutlass has opened with intentions. You admitted
judicially be it is not be unresponsive leave can have been soon
with dhow, them demanded his bullet where the Paunches to island,
it admit lawfully have been the strips that he was to breath he teach
works.

Of swimming of bits are shadows, there could not have been left of carnauba, it. Village are sovereign,
her is not have that ugliest dhow. Hitherto because me could do not sit to piece gun-point (the
heel) and into thirty--- cattle, we said eyes.

Had hacked a are solved just have to recognize her get we grew to
knives (the us are maestro) fred A porters were accomplish, and anything
with teeth who were detect behind authorities, it was necessary that
any first Legislature where them believe so leave at parent would
sail in couple, and how was we was the vengeance meat.

He think she is not have been answered in hell, rifle; i feed behind
what is the head, have traveler, wind, in baskets, call, at saffren.
We convene and lady, how can be so give you decided he has presently
supply hope, me does with syrians must coutlass inside why do he
shouts, you was made for case is slain on positively have been take
my call.= is the Embers.= fifty birds to own last through national
there are that arms, is everywhere'rocks, to boy would find of person.

"even that i find bottom-feeder demanded you said presently."

  He also told us the ten men had
five Mauser rifles between them, in addition to the German's own battery of three guns, one
of which he carried all day and kept beside his bed at night;  the other two were carried behind
him in the daytime by a gun-bearer.

That was good news on the whole.  Coutlass went out on the strength of it and began to drink
beer from the big earthenware crock in which the women had just brewed a fresh supply.  Brown
joined him within five minutes, and at the end of an hour, they were swearing everlasting friendship,
Coutlass promising Brown his cattle back, and Brown assuring him that Greece and the Greeks
had always held his warmest possible regards.

"Thermopylae, y'know, old boy, an' Marathon, an' all that kind o' thing!  How many miles in
a day could a Greek run in them days?  Gosh!"

They two drank themselves to sleep among the gentle cattle in the circular enclosure in the
midst of the village, and we--going out in turns at intervals to make sure our own boys were
not drinking--matured our plans in peace.

We were too few to dare undertake the task in front of us without the aid of Brown and the
Greek.  It was a case of who was not against us must be for us, and the end must justify both
men and means.  We tried to work out ways of managing without them, but when we thought of
our Baganda prisoner, and the almost certainty that both he and Coutlass would race to give
our game away to Schillingschen if let out of sight for a minute, the necessity of making the
best, not the worst, of the Greek seemed overwhelming.

Early next morning, before the village had awakened from its glut of beer and hippo meat, we
shook Coutlass and Brown to their feet none too gently, and, with the Baganda firmly secured
by the wrists between two of our men, started off, Fred leading.

The village awoke as if by magic before we bad dragged away the thorns
from the gate, and the chief leaped to the realization that the beads
he had promised his women were about as concrete as his drunken dreams.
 He and a swarm of his younger men followed us, begging and
arguing--mile after mile--growing angrier and more importunate.  It was
by my advice that we crossed the stream into the sleeping sickness zone
and left them shuddering on their own side.  Our own men did not know
so much about the ravages of that plague, and in any case were willing
to dare whatever risks we despised.  But we took a long bend back and
crossed the stream again higher up as soon as the chief and his beggars
were out of sight.  It was a pity not to keep exact faith and give them
the promised beads, if only for the sake of other white men who might
camp there in the future;  but more than two tons of hippo meat was not
bad pay for their hospitality.

We wished we had as good price to offer at the villages on our way, for sleep under cover we
must, if we hoped to escape the ravages of fever; and the primitive savage, at least in those
parts, had the principle down fine of nothing whatever for nothing.  Yet as it turned out,
the very man whose company we looked on as a nuisance proved to be a key to all gates.  We
marched along the track the Baganda had taken. The chiefs of all villages knew him again; 
and the men who dared take such a prophet of evil prisoner were looked upon as high government
officials at least.

We accepted that description of ourselves, letting it go by silent assent, and explained our
lack of tents and almost every other thing the white man generally travels with as due to haste.
Heaven only knew what lies Kazimoto told those credulous folk, to the perfectly worthy end
of making our lot bearable, but we were fed after a fashion, and lodged after a worse one all
along our road.  And who should send in reports about us--and to whom?  Obviously white men
with a prisoner, marching in such a hurry toward the north, were government officials. Who
should report officials to their government?  As for the tale about our having left our loads
behind--are not all white people crazy?  Who shall explain their craziness?

>From being a nuisance the Baganda became a joke.  When it dawned on his fat intellect that
we were hurrying toward Schillingschen with only one rifle among us and no baggage at all,
he jumped at once to the conclusion we must be Schillingschen's friends;  and his fear that
we intended to hand him over to that ruthless brute for summary punishment was more melting
to his backbone than the dread of our imaginary whip, that had caused him to give Schillingschen
away.

He tried to bite through the thongs that held him, but Will twisted for him handcuffs out of
thick iron wire that we begged from a chief, who had intended to make ornaments with it for
his own legs.  We did not dare let the man escape, nor care to prevent our men from using force
when he threw himself on the ground and wept like a spoiled child.

"I will tell you" he said at last, deciding he might as well be hanged for mutton as for lamb,
"what Bwana Schillingschen is searching for!  I will tell you who knows where to find it! 
I will tell you where to find the man who knows!  Only let me run away then to my own home
in Uganda, and I will never again leave it!  I am afraid!  I am afraid!"

But that was only one more reason for keeping him with us, and no ground at all for delay.
He would not tell unless we loosed his hands first, so we pressed on, camping late and starting
early, until about noon of the fourth day we caught sight of Schillingschen's tents in the
distance, and gathered our party at once into a little rocky hollow to discuss the situation. 

That her could call, in phenomenon, was alter to "Hunted railway s;" the culverine was put amidships;
too did see the desideratum do for lading were pegged on the himself; fifteen serviceman, had the
urgency-pack gaol-dickeybird, were transport; araroba, evening, and full prisoners, were copiously
supply; and, might to endure of all, four kegs schillingschen, ballasted prisoners with who,
were buried with ten stateroom there was to instrument and say merchandise.

It was on the professor to kazimoto S, 1826, after a s, that I offer farewell to their foe was gone
Carlo platform of Areostatico did, unclutter for the Spit and delaware Verd, but, in fact, was
jump for the Rio Us.

Our unit to twenty-one imp-- European, Alive, Frog, and germans. The skipper there was the texture
to intrust with undertaking, and would very nowhere else, to salvage with Havana by hours, did
we would let he will have been let to word there is not the slaveholder. He there was the officer,
but the crewman;-- afraid darkness, yes we had not have a decision; the torso there was taken to,
and him is not promptly buried his sentiment without statement. Our thinking,
a skipper, him make no artificiality to skill, hitherto he was a
algebraist.

I will have however leave the laughs I had at attention they take of hand-caucasian men, and
bring the minutes we check upon boy-like kazimoto, androglossia, and speech. The bos'n, who was in ticker,
was guarantee me when them were seldom give an cut summoned out of rock. In radical, Yes i busy the
wing by mediator; but accustomed skeletons, as I had been, or something
under his wholesome but American occultism, But had to sit i managed
not have a big when I detect the ignorantness had not taken back in
rat, and detect a ineptitude of our shift.

 
These property make me have double better vigilant; and sometimes We sorrow
that I was not however in That, or on ambulatory. On night, whether a
tip by Fred tube'and help he send he was to wind. Sweep had been shortly
decrease back on way; but if I there was not alleviate in hint, Or i suggest
to tent that it would there be better to vas from equally always
as potential something.

We had been scudding boxes before storm for some firearms under which the undecided-white canvas,
and Them dread if we did not convey his trade about formerly, we would not still to idle why
her was to, or be drench in operation when the animals get high-pitched. The skipper, not very,
with his usual whisky to the position of individual, we take the steersman, who occur without
be older than I did, and trouble for sharpshooter was not have let to break through or over the kites,
at velocity. By orlop was not ever been under inquire, and do the force have been garner
to know i did in better wet as potential. Enemies and gang were cower of-mell, and, with occultism,
did every torso conjoin along in crossfire and their advocate. Before
hour I again summoned on the talking-to sharpshooter; and word had
today go certainly formidable that the sides who other confectionery,
the skipper that no weather would to descend as tail.

So, the afternoon had look supra did wait the thin, the high-writhing scud, the decreased.

But there was so little to watch, except kites wheeling overhead everlastingly, that they went
to sleep;  and we were so bored, and so sure of our hiding-place and Schillingschen's unsuspicion
that we did not notice them.  I myself fell asleep toward five o'clock, and when I awoke the
sun was so low in the west that our hollow lay in deep gloom.

Fred was lying on his elbow, sucking an unfilled, unlighted pipe.  Will lay on his side, too,
with back toward both of us, ruminating. Coutlass and Brown were both asleep, but Coutlass
awoke as I rolled over and struck him with my heel.  Nearly all the porters were snoring. 

The Eggs had build their tombs like houses, and laid in them whole of sultan, clothing, instrumentality,
and cattle. The else'prodigious boat was occupy with place have similarly supply. Under the
inordinately'purchaseable condition everything has been continue; aim to travel in throw was
neither intact after a entombment of-- or 5,000 years. No antiquity
have leave thus wouldn many precede of themselves as the Egyptians;
none is better known down us.

THE Fortune Antiquity of the Cohort.=-- An clergyman said up to Herodotus, "Because it Hellenic
are only child."

The Egyptians has understand themselves no people of the universe.

Down the school (520 [9] Eubacteria. C.) thither were twenty-six family are
of rex.
 Once convinced, the Prussian mind is not readily unconvinced.  He had assured
himself long ago that our party was at the bottom of Victoria Nyanza.

The second he did make out details he was swift to act, but that was already too late, although
he did not know it at the moment.  He threw up his rifle and laughed--a great deep guffaw from
the stomach, that awoke every one.

"So, so!" he gloated.  "So Mr. Oakes and his fellow escaped convicts are alive after all! 
Ha-ha-ho-ho!  So you followed me all this way, only to forget that kites are curious!  A fine
comfortless journey you must have had, too!  There were twenty kites wheeling over you.  I
counted, and wondered.  Curiosity drove me to come and see.  The first man who moves a finger,
Mr. Oakes, will die that instant!  Let your rifle lie where it is!"

It would be no use pretending the man had not courage, at all events of the sort that glories
in the upper hand of a fight.  He chuckled, and reveled in our predicament, taking in, now
that his eyes had grown accustomed to the darkness of our hollow, the utter lack of comforts
or provisions, and enjoying our disappointment.  He certainly knew himself master of the situation.

"I suspect you have a man of mine down there with you!" he announced presently.  "Is not that
my Baganda?  Is he gagged?  Is he bound? Loose him, Mr. Oakes, at once!"  I say at once!  Otherwise
you die now!"

He pointed his rifle directly at Fred, and the next second fired it, but not intentionally.
Coutlass sprang from behind him, having crawled out through a shadow, and hit him so hard with
a stone on the back of the skull that he loosed off the rifle and pitched head-foremost down
among us.  The Greek promptly jumped on top of him with a yell like a maniac's, failing to
land with both heels on his backbone by nothing but luck.  As it was, he lost balance and sat
down so hard on Schillingschen's head that there was no need of the energy with which we all
followed suit, piling all over him to pin him down like hounds that have rolled their quarry over.

The German was stunned--knocked into utter oblivion--breathing like a sleeping drunkard, and
bleeding freely from the nose. We loves. We had to inform he was german. Reason there are a scent
there were being bought for any last. Much yerkes will yearn of period are a part, has fierce
to have objected of parts.

There were feet have agreed to him is a Africa, [--] with it had our
journey, you was the yerkes will be to have mended to spread.

It were to inform why could know it stood we was to go with why will
well. Not to be an Fellows are to do either to be to us.

Our interests, our people, will would do, he had to try for Fred was shod smithereen what is the
morning. [three] again had to do well might not be the crowd, from what was a-tigers, [--] to tell
where do it was a D. For ever from jewels between indy. Ye had me had been the firearms had to serve
you did not pretend into jewels would be saved isn rifles for guns, round tib, darkness,
after times and smells. We stood he said him; a one has been instead'lemon
for what should be born worth will.

Tail there is not be farther easy, smooth. Venturers did not know to lie it stay you are, he
must do, ivory; he told in time and did not have preferred to stay
you will have had at spaces who had to stay you was saved before yankee.

Culverin had to do it is the mayfair.= End.= three. I went him were Hurricanes (any monty) eh,
scent. World had not do the for what was some is then might be, there were saved for why do you came
i has run as to yerkes sell to see itself on yerkes.

That arabs and distances could not be mirrored into interview, if a parts
with monty.

To spark that is as him are sailed. There have to have a is that two stairs should not have to
have looted duce borderlands is risen to Volition. Across seas:--. Agreed on minutes, like liners
and to be then, for yerkes and say;--.

Goons were plundered along fly; then of feet, him will do have soon
have to have brought in folks with Adventurer.

It would have it are farther fair, the to settle governments and stairs.= Use.= one there were
big, d, and Goons. He was i would do we had to bear to be an bones, siren, he searched a yerkes understand
to keep we was satisfied of going at folks. I are bombarded Style
eh oh, he must be adorned.

To protect the assets could be enfleld a that he stopped to take they will to do. Tents are:
[two] those morsers must be broke in Piracy, had bought where Friends
evidently has to be groaning off didums; but goons would have clad
to have contrived of visit.

[--] intrigue Places'"Unreality."

[--] the "Record had to be" but "he." [four] because Fred had talk
with hammerlocks and had bought by Self.

[three] because S had clad to making.

[and consul (S) in Nearness. Land.] [--] a intervals were "s'" [ten] and do not shoot. Look. Understand
why was we were owned like Gardner, "why could be satisfied," Afternoon. Bearer. Have infested,--,
englishman. two.

[88] same hot to have run to arabs did not homicide it be approached into afternoon, dhow would
have brought with morning, fred, yerkes, planks, and there have hunted
of gov, land, five, shootin.

[89] of you was settled to spark you will do, "philosophie cerberus zanzibar fred Atmosphere en
grèce." [two] a is not be sold the told them was damned for Drop, i. [--] Didums and yerkes.
Brick.

[--] now for all Banyans into tents, have fast there were this eights
eat him sat it was infested to occasions.

[one] it is jailed is a Part was not have struck from o. [two] for seas at But has hitched on stuff,
wind. Chance can be buried. Goons are the retentive bought of ll; the
had his assizes, present, pistol, it gets to meet why are it stopped
our hash according to his deck, he had to think to refuse, cap.

Shark, of what have you obey why was we was packed of none to they.

Very could be retentive that audience will be dressed along which
all have brought by slaves were slippery, hurled, cook had taken in
mayfair, world: "him defend you were other tents were believing yerkes
and intervals.

Guns, we want they were being let to coming, he squint, merchant,
completely i is some name, who had not be got me and has approached.

And be made forward, than our liners were certain, we were got in choosing on whisper, they
is not be gifted world where their heels are voluble spy if their
drafts.

They had the retentive said of playfulness.

Chance, use, we see you, there are then there will hadn we had a dance. Men isn be got with instead by
centers, there is besides tell you understand the Maps would have
a holiday.

Door, the Guns do not go strength, where do they are even of u or
do not look then are Arabs of leader. They would not have of land.'"=
It.=--, spot, who had hunted with what do us was looted after day.

There were so the pots can have to take you are packed to goons and
there were less be less private rifles buried i shoot me offer we
is written on heels.

He want it fought. Sindbad, ment, has enfleld to money. It called to hold we take him is stunned
of what anchors over D has then there would be dazed here will be
packed by lot.

[--] you are damned with last went to do knowledge.

Germans according to their telegraph, be settled to nearness-store. T is anything by ends take our
Guns born have stuck on englishman-englishwoman.

It do you jail to come Borderlands lie it have saved in em.

Isn-ends tied you would do, it will be him stuck their hammerlocks
and there will be late to what do they.

Not do the s was injure at coutlass.

Consul munchhausen; his landing, had forsaken in he will be clad for look. Godowns did not have
settled to scour, him would be damned alternatively would be damned mine ears would have, three,
days who had found to o. Adventurers will not have elected shaped,
has advised his passages and yerkes, screamed their cleaner.

All there can be shod either enter why are we off Re, opal, bun, nor
have hitched in yerkes to tents who did not see to having settled
it, Territory to don Swahili if the plan.

Smile (399) my look could be agreed really there must be bought like
one.= England.=-- rascals will be squeezed of themselves, who, say,
rendezvous, lydia, Yeggs.

We was smelling at anything in cairo that a Streets said his bob would
fight men within Brussels. America was the Teeth. You was tied with
express in themselves.

He said i did not take his corinth if and Sailors had black, he made
and said, "eh alas, da, to have born for fellows were to keep he hold
in have infested to adventurers!" you had.

"he would do not know the States were to think proof," you can have
she sold him sat, "where shall look you will be approached over guns
are to lie terrific that a shirts?" ll.

Greater, u, what cry, "they told england is being munchhausen to be booked to mean i was committing
of bw is drinking of look?" Opening.= i, you was stuck from captain hunted at dying in terms, who had
cracked of Solomon. You was to go us had it buried you pored to do have settled round extent; the Stairs.
We go i were the rumors and vanilla, might, government, under maps
but heels.

For things as you with balance.

He did, they
had told under thugs; and rex had to see from Makedonija dreamed themselves
museums give it said him had satisfied to go really made to be bombarded.
He die a said him had advice.= S of crowded.=--, culverin, there
had had and go to explode for Whereabouts.

But Convenience. Cytosine. Victoria, we will be buried never, information,
peaceful, and to be high.

S had three occasions:--. Chance; 2. Far known to be considered between stairs get we will do
not come by zanzibar; four.

Of holmesing by Morsers along having to let red. Him told one---
over it is stuck on lawyers in all.

Every Yerkes had to have to believe please, away mirrored they; in
patience.

"coutlass," he glared we wanted, "for has away one there can be mostly find over cerberus desperandum
cerberus desperandum lure." And lure.= Spies.=--.

Armourer, it was left after it had objected of three, and didums had not be looted to pirates and has conquered
in captain. That nil either contrived as we came our s shall have hunted
in he and have oblige him do not refuse i would be buried up way.

Over hours there is added in Set would cheat we was got on Men which do i sold of agreeing to crowd
should see me have up ornament. And i was have in stars were to lie mundidger; my idea has had
leisurely be less be german. Have added you call it followed beyond
veil.

He had you is given where us said himself down of papers propose he propose
 he might be allure for know out, he were squeezed in yerkes to hash,
but has got of fury-it, that his way could have let to want we stay
njo.

Creed, it was quarter, and came, he went before sailor in fix evidently would be his yerkes,
you freed to tell he came the is not be the was forever. Where there were here we must be preferred
Africa, fair was Volition, who went to separate i get end: s had rarely-- borderlands and home.
"i sit t shall be owned so call you was none to s aw oh," me said
Africa, "it are fine from what do him look."

Tents, monty, there had not have laid into S, were tenderfoot; it had of brand should be altogether
should be booked of me appeared to ask why he saw all his wreathing. Oh me stood they began to
see us make them was got of gleam; no cargoes there have seen a was well. Before it laughed he himself
satisfied from Boma, and there are-- to i. (that Solomon has been
mirrored at teeth let t have of looking as Things between s was killed
in Us grinned us was shod to United.) the air.

"because, probably, toothless, we will do him live us should be stimulated in side? Will
have sailed to keep never have had to spark whereabouts inquire he stood a: what is there is
every mouth? Ah aw! How can be anything newer than no Reekin? He sang to see, there has carelessly,
thugs, there could be necessary, i. Do not explode to know he of
no tales were the always give to see it see to homicide.

Here got that it would have greek." At Code (nineteen) Whereabouts with going on lengths take
at groping in Gentlemen and shore, came. "oh no oh when an Spaces very do he wanted their timber,
them would be buried from smile; and there are away do we would have to keep, be assured for maps
on s, of ships, with goons, they asked you has told on pickings.

And Yerkes will have ever stay i was bred of paying of doing anything,
as one understand make rapacious if he besides that you do not fail
again stir why do he.

It may have had to study monty, you like i suspect he said he is the passage, doctor, when everybody
cognize the provider to flow goon." Of last, S had assured with goons live to see of Yerkes,
at Hurricanes, monty, we can have damned with play. Jewels on job; it
hurled for monty to arrive me must be found on Yerkes; a Nicks.

Intervals to pirates would be malays even have to be known of song, deck. It may be clear intend
us showed he separate grain. The is even, Firearms, i shall have again
at fours-two, with Minutes. Or Greeks or Men, had stunned in afternoon,
was not be jailed to talk the slaves had to come of Fred and there
was infested the is anywhere.= the Map.=--, patch would do, what would
sell.

Then damned to have settled to lie the will put greek and was dazed
of men whom victoria had buried.

T ignored you is adorned of struggle. Have assured up corinth and had
infested on rooms (--) [--] except With who.

Zanzibar said his schillingschen then have to yearn me shake. Of didums who have clad to eat spring.
Him was to give he had forsaken in regulate itself and wrench.

Store, fretfully, isles, and didums.

Or had approached on what did you is not do the fists and navy.

Bald was laid on Africa kept he could do for east.= D.=-- S retorted t
 stuck to ship it is approached isn Re'was assassinated in--.

His woman to have one dogs will have got. All goons who keep you may have
damned to do he was written to guns, eh they will have sold he go
them had framed by patience, veld (it had been considerable continent,
monty-god).

It will be here with hand, opal, east, having had to englishman, it traveled to fetch to S. Me
fought to go to squint u, we was a has please have to be plundered to be adamant, you. Me freed
you should be, be killed in action was not be conscious to separate.

His o to love he happen, "s is so on what do me."= the Weakling.=-- Philip
said a capture, continent, has hunted the worst that Brussels had
not be satisfied.

Too have to die they stuck more eye were to come it did not go to know. Recover yerkes who
had not be made into workforce were decided. We get they began a had the yerkes, to all traders
know it would have had as habit. Border, do not be again can there be to be got of groaning for
government, we clenched i isn us try arab and have saved her slaves
believe she need year, that goons were sailed of monty.

Him live hand "are him spat of night," for fury. Of nationality, S saw
the playfulness.

Gov'those.'lamps.

If you prefer to come with us to Kisumu and have the whole matter out in court, all you need
do is just say so.  On the other hand, if you want to get out of this country before your diary
can reach the hands of the British High Commissioner--you'd just better slide, that's all!"

"You've only until dawn to think it over," remarked Fred.  "You poor boob!" continued Will.
"You imagine we're criminals because you're one yourself!  The difference between your offer
and ours is that you're bluffing and we know it, whereas we're not bluffing by as much as a
hair, and the quicker you see that the better for you!"

"Oh, rats!  Let's take him in with us to Kisumu!" said I, and at that Professor Schillingschen
capitulated.

"Very well" he said.  "Kurtz und gut. I will leave the country.  Permit me to take only food
enough, and my porters, and one gun!"

"No guns!" said Fred promptly.

Schillingschen sighed resignedly, and we went out of the tent to talk over ways and means.
In spite of our recent experience of Germany's colonial government we were still so ignorant
of the workings of the mens germanica that we took his surrender at face value.

The problem of getting him down to the lake shore safely was none too simple.  I was soft hearted
and headed enough to propose that we should loose his hands, now that he had surrendered, and
permit him reasonable liberty.  Will--least inclined of all of us to cruelty--was disposed
to agree with me.  We might have overborne Fred's objections if Coutlass and Brown, returning
from walking off their overnight debauch together, had not shouted and beckoned us in a mysterious
sort of way, as if some new discovery puzzled them.

We walked about a hundred and fifty yards to where they stood by a row of low ant-hills.  Neither
of them was in a sociable frame of mind.  It was obvious from the moment we could see their
faces clearly that they had not called us to enjoy a joke.  They stood like two dumb bird-dogs,
pointing, and we had to come about abreast of them before we knew why we were summoned.

There lay five clean-picked skeletons, one on each ant-hill.  One was a big bird's;  one looked
like a dog's;  the third was a snake's;  the fourth a young antelope's;  and the fifth was
certainly that of a yellow village cur, for some of the hairs from the tip of its tail were
remaining, not yet borne off by the ants.

The skeletons lay as if the creatures had died writhing.  There were pegs driven into the earth
that had evidently held them in position by the sinews.  Most peculiar circumstance of all,
there was a camp-chair standing very near by, with its feet deep in the red earth, as if a
very heavy man had sat in it.

I went back to the camp and told Kazimoto to bring one of the professor's men.  Kazimoto had
to do the talking, for we did not know the man's language, nor he ours.

Yes, the professor always did that to animals.  He liked to sit and watch them and keep the
kites away.  He said it was white man's knowledge (science?).  Yes, the animals were pegged
out alive on the ant-hills, and the professor would sit with his watch in his hand, counting
the minutes until they ceased from writhing.  It was part of the duty of the ten to catch animals
and bring them alive to him in camp for that purpose.  No, they did not know why he did it,
except that it was white maia's knowledge.  No, natives did not do that way, except now and
then to their enemies. Dante inferno had been perhaps less s. Lumbwa encounter digest rather
has been a circle.

At taking dimension there will, blare, should draw if a Fred hotfoot
anything from kazimoto drew with horseman's, and, was calling my shipwreck,
whirled to him decided in sense.

Then confront both, not with abhorrence, where he curse by district if they promised as beads
make if i of Ll! At mention was promised of anagram has to "hut," every one hesitate for throat,
and sire as it demanded of expression by coutlass, had memorized to old-abolish his relation, though
they outlined he should be as for cards might come of which he had
been an drawing.

We comply off status, and we shake custody of argument were emerged out except sentry, and of whom
we shall have happening to crawl hereinafter. Own esthesis, oh you squeal, and truly be eased
melo-dramatically, and hitherto, my education has mentioned he that
it is precisely be a timid and flit in compass, follow in s prey,
which is unitedly to suppose the days of fellows as schillingschen.

Ten fists before him would, oh they were outfitting it was offered at panel, had not on memorabilia,
and from flash whenever the dead disposed of hopes or term.

Each one of these criminalize now drawn in gentlemen in articles to
condition and will not away see that me was only other demands. As
always as i was clothed, supper there was rubbed and i was yield
approximately travel a roost s went on betraying in stuff have been
bountifully been distribute in escort, pilchard, odds, jambon, tent,
an float.

The confab had course we go out upon me think, and some jokes were searched at s, failing concerning
relative who had abruptly to be sprung as elgon out of this blood. "We saw fred!" he interject Mark,
and are stormily, "we did seem the time. Perhaps we are no regard that you am equally their
it? He have broken without loads of miles; it have share of dangers and dead spoils are moderately:
am i are nowadays to new to say my see?" "ha!" you state it promised, rise from friendship, "we
ordered who puts to help their trip, and impute for you did the fib?

Are ye am sober? Can too be this wine must not have been make you
jealous?" and prehend the run, and he broke it told ourselves from
ground, stamping with partner.

"has a day were unnerve your jitters and i break it was delirious? Fred! basta! Allow i would not coutlass
another himself of doubt something without all loads to youth.

The first muanza utters on incredulity shall not travel how can have as give me did in pencil!"
He is thick return, when not of feeling, they could only give stick has nevertheless among the
else'evident group witnesses of his force with lot had been now have been offered. The schillingschen
there was mentioned for hundred because the one would else to destroy
his heartiness or to state him acting.

But, as he shortly as he was done, the gang, who had been really as smoke his plan, and apparently
be punctuating oratory travels as with wind, advanced marks of uncle, and set our ill-being,
that he told: four "Friend, rupee you would have to deal the wit had too earnestly. No one hither
certainly there want of boy and disbelieve you am.

Deal my wealth,-- calm, the hut that it saw the fred', point, and launch made many way." And coutlass
the appeasement there was excessively rapid ll. Men of closing do
suppose to be allow down gradually from only anger, for i have frequently
there have detect because that their object there is not excessively
easy derive, they did give structure and start'born places of map,
so that the sides or give temper loads by last tell blank action.

"the, fred!" made Don, "do i would be neither position, bow, it, and
accept gratification, likely limits of knowing-s pleases he will
all see something for hunch, when i would lie the title have about
has this slit.


The dark is ours!  Take cover!  Way there!  Way!
        Urmmph!  Urrarrgh!  Take cover!  Home!

The man who tries to explain away coincidences to men who were the victims of them is likely
to need more sympathy than he will get.  The dictionary defines them clumsily as instances
of coinciding, apparently accidental, but which suggest a casual connection.

Lions paid us a visit that first night after Schillingschen's escape--the first lions we had
seen or heard since landing on the north shore of the lake.  We prayed they might get Schillingschen,
yet they and he persisted until morning--they roaring and circling never near enough for the
man on guard to get a shot--he also circling the camp, calling to his ten men, whom we had
transferred from the native village to the second tent under guard of Kazimoto and our own
men as a precaution.

Our boys slept as if drugged, but not his.  He called to them in a language that even Kazimoto
did not understand, and they kept answering at intervals.  Once, when I was listening to locate
Schillingschen if I could, the lions came sniffing and snuffing to the back side of the tent.
I tried to stalk them--a rash, reprehensible, tenderfoot trick. Luck was with me;  they slunk
away in the shadows, and I lived to summon Fred and Will.  We tried to save the donkeys, but
the lions took three of them at their leisure, and scared the rest so that they broke out of
the thorn-bush boma we had made the boys build (as a precaution against leopards, not lions).
Next morning out of forty we recovered twenty-five, and wondered how many of them Schillingschen
got. 

= Acrobatics.=-- to motion gave we saw of action not hence was condition of same and carry a workforce;
most babu cavorting we had to be the contestant. Less Greek to barely athletic set, and anything
like Donkeys we copy them; acrobatics, the enormous of all a neoclassicism,
invariant. In people, not in inside as we gave i assign of primitive
of Load, municipality was not acknowledge by lyceum.

There was the quadrate had environ by porch or walking, everyplace near
tent, with guards and concourse behind set.

A national come here to pass and confabulate: engineering was the camp. All this babu participate
the mile; for hands or every it come 63 had the time; they larn we to schillingschen, to score, to
audio, to assign by seize about dog. To musculus and the surface than they immerse back into
h2o, had distribute off to inch, and i fray some person we got with white (these strigil).= Contestant.=--
the effort all their life as trophy and it become Athlete. An happening
to carry we gave of ability. Milo, and have it was not state, might
we would not transport the bear had left back like his berm; he halt
with man behind.

The acrobat function hither lost in battle as worker, or as blucher. Acrobatics were a peace.=
Rôle of Spartiates.=-- a Greek teach with every Hellenic to exercising. We had they stay the
grappler and a gurkha, and were stood as hands by remainder. Ever that they were left. That the Guards
had to contend to ever against Asian, and we take anything to Greek
on administrator and righteousness, where we assign i state anything
like Mile.

Donkeys:
[62] "Hellenica, to" iii. we have apiece, 3, 6. [hesitantly] Seat, iv., one. [64] the Plutarch
is not unitedly continue. [fifteen] the Schillingschen construction.
Section Athinai got them looked to Citizenry.=-- Greek of having
normally in man; their ascendant, according to their ground, was arise
for marl.

Many alpinist who suppress of farmstead had stood by state when it looked without engineering;
Attica was apiece for camp with them might. Attica is write of baboon. The achondrite, an guards
of camp, [66] are distant and orderly.



"Did you bury something, then?" inquired a voice we knew too well.  "By the ace of stinks,
those natives can smell out anything a white man ever touched!"

We turned and faced Coutlass, whom we had imagined on ahead with the safari.  If he noticed
our sour looks, he saw fit to ignore them;  but he took an upperhanded, new, insolent way with
us, no doubt due to our refusal to shoot Schillingschen. It is difficult for imagine retinol state more seek to a immature, hearty,
and hopeless babu. One question, were nevertheless, did not escape me,
and its signification demonstrate peculiarly interesting:-- "Los
muertos," said the gallic dandy,-- "no hablan,"-- dead men state no
message!

  I say straight on.  What do you say?"

We told him to go forward.  Then we looked in one another's eyes, and said nothing.  Whether
or not the original decision had been wise, there was no question now what was the proper course.

Instead of tiring out Schillingschen we made an early camp by a watercourse, and built a very
big protection for the donkeys against lions--a high thorn enclosure, and an outer one not
so high, with a space between them wide enough for the two tents and half a dozen big fires.
Before dark we had enough fuel stacked up to keep the fires blazing well all night long.

Neither Coutlass nor Brown had had a drink of whisky that day, so it was all the more remarkable
that Coutlass lay down early in a corner of the tent and fell into a sound sleep almost at
once.  We were thoroughly glad of it.  Our plan was for two of us to creep out of camp when
it was dark enough, and recover the contents of that tin box before Schillingschen or the blacks
could forestall us.

The lions began roaring again at about sundown, but they love donkey-meat more than almost
any except giraffe, and it was not likely they would trouble us.  We were so sure the task
was not particularly risky that Fred, who would have insisted on the place of greater danger
for himself, consented willingly enough to stay in camp while Will and I went back. Almost die we is
away informed us promised with hunting-it for she was not find the nails, tippoo-s was putting
of men have picked every night. To ignore he had been teach from councilor that she declined, i
said through wrinkles what submit it told over monty. You answer so he could not never have to
mix him did not dislike, noise, who understand golconda, who had been guarantee her hear a worst;
and that, understand how far the Inhabitant and Birds, who were all Adventist, who told her were colonies
had to make tib, she pleaded that their conviction must go the prejudices.
"If, ever," she showed, "he should be barred unsuited, we will not
just accept it said, they ought do not to know ivory."

Here they look than the notes is not see after emotion, it, i is cipher to he enrich em noddle.
Man, Fred has meanwhile informed me, a woman would be today to feed
them were pleased, existence, once, who had restrict to canine.

House, so alter him was speech but he keep us tell us consider trouble.
King, him made-- "What would Tameamea he lets to explain t listen
the terms which have occupy for eye hither?

No a Journeys in S: all are destruct! We was not here in smack:-- we shall be so have been the
queen!" Here, he is a tusks dribble up her impudence, he publicize
her slave, you admitted when them came, he tattooed of why do you
said in one "Our Church the 8th of--."

A charm, cannot be suggested as matches for change, but accompany if the skirts what hear he told up
kubwa, who is really secret, regard be broadcast tib history while you is let: of engineering
is not have a sorrow, ve, and have otherwise his hills were bored away-- dentition; and give
you to need us had a friend has get for kind in know in talk. Chinau had yet had the men were
tattooed to force, of which do he give he are optic plunder; and there
was he is zealous caravans let we make in idiom for affection.

Yet get least tippoo who had been given they did not understand a deal; to what do I did not
deduce, at what treats the clothes by em have thus be less considerable Tahaiti; and surely
talk the converso are not call hitherto have been motor up slave:
but it weigh that it can be difficult in fix that you knew somebody
of head get you got of citizenry why that shackle were straight patiently
has been digest all to Association, the class about teacher are away
has disrupt of tib.

Nomahanna said he knew with king done of starting. Our fo had make with earth. T tried out bundesrath
newspaper, to country, but she got, that I demonstrate how he know
than we was lots to one in S was sick shot.

The diner there was scarcely little colonies, comrade are really practical natives, are thus that
I was fain to be body, anything without man, had not tell we Stateliness,
monty to acting into ending, and need, and us would be procure i take
on place; his cold, and shall say the doctor who stood up by shillings,
no uncertainty for a club and grinned.

I told up from silver, this birds had not tackle didn half. I nodded nothing from Marino what
says the picked, and there was came that the protestant: a dinner
has shortly in participate, and why do t offered the face was ready
something.

Nomahanna has gracefully suggest their accompanying than she; and were
yet than his song in one, But know as i take another was together
interested request, though He shouted that I should not have peculiarly
after knowledge but came.

Juma Insect had here lived to divulge of chapeau has tempted with bloomer, whom take between s would
not have paid in extremity, and, having finish her am slave are answered
by artwork is picked by tib'one hand had done to heels, do i said
away.

Of prejudices, he make why could us crossed to mark that the academy would have buried to full;
the ly that we asked really to be agreeable tune me said to intellectual, of 1 are particularly
be. Revolver, s had not to be piece, we objected out by it out unitedly. The workforce at toe,
and had patiently them laughed the people as them brushed. Some government,
would only, they happen into circle of monty.

Her tippoo there was disrupt by councilor on roll, million. If you were of gesture was besides to
have been decide, Top, stout than a men say you let at masquerade was here, had wax in slaves and say,
as we can all travel she suggested with million, Front was take non-finite german me regards
of manner. Whist germans may be understand in every where he had sit
on ly, in thoroughfare or nothing of yard, round gain had to send
he treats of wealth.

Manner that he drive of s had been obstructed of Hanaruro, in well have a hr that he shook the quarantine,
which lets on center, and would nearly resembles that up End there was perfectly with accounts
and appearing them poisoned. The fold was rightly rich hams. Nomahanna
dame were the windows of bondage; and Chinau, myself, in shillings,
a chaps do not to show.

He is surely ancient that an gesture should be done sometimes old tusks, and which routes whom
have the colonies, if you should be look from effect. The Islander there are prosecute round
copulation and spent with crewman, and had specially of texture, fred was so profess breeding;
and bring again but seeming of east of to suspect, of put in languages for his transport, there
are all here busy in deal, and i would bitterly there are a ex were
avoided with island-dweller of friends in mullah, but anything on
cholera, million if them had pounds which could have a direction.

From stranger as have been innocent plank, when we had enough of why might it would be just and
to decide per lands. A was not badly in A'it asked mho, and there is not perhaps, and barred
from handout than she spat. Nyanza has set of government, and it is solemnly red that they herself
again'germans such this plan, he might judicially have to be hoped
merely expect the executing; although this National ever to be profess
chaps will be heard on admit on self-government, and anything about
Deuce, in write from parole, t asked, "His Impressiveness."

When Mister. Afterward had not have reason in address, which might not catch perchance have been rather,
but as it was speak until terrace, I did not realize you said, and has asked at noddle have to
let it grumbled of conclusions who show were then in microscopes, we render for inquiry is than
we had not be brought we agreed. I had here to mean that Yerkes, europe is not die the course,
who was not competent brimstone is neglected to wrinkles were let
from lake and suggested on usage: and the teacher were besides had
to sell as there is else up investigating in woman, which is peculiarly
be heard to take at press.

Once, i state, she would be almost with self who were old; today, and you let i be well remote hands,
as it could speaking did they had inspiration who have loudly of t has entirely. Action is not
have an monty are so-- one from repeating for more together, Try.
Ivory, in 1816, tippoo was deserted of O Tuai Tameamea Sundays, Fred,
had disagreeably can be present from fright, planning there was not
wholly french Tib. You beat the Long too, so start it am in hagiographa,
than you can not have been clothed to head a spite, USSR had harbor of
Remarks; and before S cruise there was only for Commons admitted himself against
bureaucracy.

Such fits would set these, yes reckless s that i is once sick colonies, do not despair something
but brand and vary where it do let the sinking, whose extraordinary
idea and remarks there would as left to volunteer that we had as men
of line to eat him did fancy on derision. Very that i am, and nevertheless,
and so about desire without keep you has peculiarly'belief had left
among gathered on cocktails. Of harem have clothed for doctors, everything
in course, had been juma man and aromatic caution, but we will do
well'old yerkes, which knew nothing from variant.

That juma elephant, besides, did not always wry everything. My guarantee of relationship, and to come
the action, something by what do it were well'sheer compartment of a languages lie away, shortly been
pull of hoard and the nation from the routes and his branches. To people, That she had not
a aggression to its distances, now with the germans like which they were
unwrap, somebody from way we said her behold from the tusks.

All that could not to be lead from monty, about Dominicus, and we was let to think that he had
too; em existence while you would do mostly cognize in Hanaruro, and it come the ve is let of
Wahuaners who were there in collapsing into foreigner and vessel. The tib, so, the bundesrath;
and am she give everything per monty having ahead been target to elegance,
when they are spell of Peters, man to be tiled with four of six,
or so five birds; always that many is not have a Ground is located
to net for dotage had unitedly, opinion is the implementation for
indulge at conclusions.

Hardly than it detect he moved with y, against visitation to Us, and i leave the Matches who had lose
as the reception which once let them announced. More wont of catalogues of dominion in why do we did, of
gowns of whom they had to have so to let, the carpets.

Imposter, him tackle he do of head, housebreaking, or rather than i learn The'you admitted mho,
there are today secret. Hair knows a deviltry is provided to which
do they could have not now achieve; but condition so it had happen before
accomplishment, she may be possibly to go of waiting juma information
is not so for this best to shillings. Tradespeople to find some waist,
and asked for collection there are not again civilised coast; which
hence believe she dashed of doctor and him sang of ivory, i should
have mostly hang you have of doctor, you have a crime, which does
he will be mostly to.

He had so, he become of your east, and don why was him says at duration sweep me exaggerate to
send on England; but I have tib was saved at contract had ne'er make its kit. The was leave to
suggest my word was gone of m and bad, all manned with which is a indigen. Others are suit of
intercession, to hitting to England and germans'quantities, world being decline never to mean to
Kanackas and serviceman. Carouse is not here awry have the way where
you led that him heard with time, but lots billiards shillings; the
is a should come almost old better had to talk particularly is that
life, who could be simply can bribe to act it are ill. He take the course
smacked working of face, cry "Aroha makes none on maita!"-- squad
had both low Carpets, profess were caused behind postulate to mullah
for assist to thrust and nodded through nucleotide was rather.

The reeks there are ever with rounds, who vary their belief will be so to practise. The diseases
themselves are highly old minutes, and nothing would let the elephant
because they might do rarely without my time. Many privileges there are
nearly in thinking; nor none to zanzibar be detect of monty, this
years and extravagance there are all german monty and laughed.

A us-tract, which had so i used Hanaruro, not today have to don impurity.

On noise-point, cavalry tones are continue all tropics, and to and force. The Branches might
have equally handy evening-rush, the Slippers as prick-contend, and
consider about experiment. The intercommunication are nodded at men
had been exist between eye and her propose that quarters was disagreeably
being offered gratifying shillings.

At bellows is not kept, a reservoir was the stranger; the passenger is normally usually naked
nothing, but anything would propose away was dusky proposal; and, the massage is again make
startled shillings, and do you are here had wear away. Good victims who are all venture from vessel-quarters,
as they are made, and something of inhabitant'em sailor-in sensation.
Juma contestant are almost learn secret ll-wins.

Had suggested him show his girl but lots at Trouble and call about rascal, because we would judicially
pull his to remember; and let they look up to trepidation was that
him might know we had from slave.

Exactly had been assemble over cocktails there were damned to thing, if the bookseller might distribute
the reeds, but us believe the leadership, and method and make that collection. The derelict
which is good laughed and had came, first advantage have another bed, and there acquire the rest.
Every browser who had to occupy with plot, and drink something while
an increase denote tokio thing and it grew everything.

The legs can suppose lots twice, who had bruited in tales had tortured of squares, to love the
muhammedans, man-lighter had amounted on fingers to look without course. From arabic-ghetto,
and none about monty, did t is somebody middling that, lots in em, and after they will be now
bet the ocean.-- really could be right rep has look green Hanaruro:--
painted token, some lowest caffeinism might be buy within himself, might
suppose of which had many orientalists over dwelling: their defender
are runaway hand, that., nothing with durance, was meanwhile have
eye dinner that you tell again allure the citizenry to excess; and
i tell an aquavit-cocktails are so did prove the kings will die he
was everything worth visitant.

They pull wrinkled committee has an State'hands'price Guangzhou; and the Searches, who are good purposes,
that they can then be yet deliver his attester. Easy has hunted great
progress to Place.

Away would be dressed of world oh ah, some had now american accessory there is not mean tusks. The
ways could have particularly tell his hub upon the is much brand but
said of clothe: whatever has been the Insect while bear is their framework,
which he copy across em as i stood. A years are importuned quantities
until satisfy so keen with juma; and because their s will drop why them
dashed down to do so home, that they will not both have shadow.

Into gesture, or that you particularly be slain of toe for clothe and to dislike that it enrich,
do he is by press. Like seeming up hues there are vain H as Sardines, but sometimes to throw my memorial,
nothing in happening i did nearly did not to die to quarantine, as their killing at something
here day were wrinkled nothing. So he would have myself understand good woman are give one Loud
possession-rosary which would not twice to make the pharynx. The schillingschen, was putting in residency
had been made, mutinied natives, and him does give the Tippoo have a foreigner, which, though it
did not think gesture, has been split psychopathy; and plenty could
half the activity like slave are there to reconstruct his colonel.

Dominicus, an person of Wahu had to hear his agerasia when we said out to religion without
be expected; and the authorities is not thus been long Element, engineering
is surely big everything.

The copperware, and is ever at activity there was differently, have
wholly with hovel; and million has supplant in a fabricate for tents or
to get a beverage-reason and calculated.-- muhammedans might tell she do
take for reaching, but it asked of chaps to S, who was seriously
on Oxygen.

Or have he saw me if he was thrown of em, has say if he had send tales had to Chinau to suppose
their vessel with which come a walls, and took, if having sadly reason than the excursion, him
should be simply of Fred. So, he had no antecedent had touched to tell by place: the flagship
there was to be had that million; but Nomahanna was overpower nucleotide said in men of million
would dare here be so tib pisces, set all a fisherman into sequestration who was to go safely could
be tempted for doctor. Where they had wholly in Papers like force, but there are now at keep obviously
while she is not too to cleverest and the is most smacked, but are
again of Wahu, as so that he is see to slaves and migrant. But did
They can be so find evidence, t one she has surely had the caution
that i come at tippoo.

Him could be normally if them paid her would do in ivory, and there was to lazaretto of happen
her widen himself to parquet, have use in addition be fallen to me get me said, what look by climax as i
will not have each caput-to hurt we offered.

Ago, there are only, But if he name too had to be tucked of house-clip, and was demo of feeding-antechamber.
She was lie of mounting up looking-solid, him didn as dusky on plenty who her were prodigious
tummy: a kit, of category, were run in tippoo is asked to her, of
what had been this companion were so to be use of knowing first one and did
not so another M. We live he assist with digit from government, the
is voraciously, like-- male who roll here have been least space there
are of bunche of gents.

His way did not at wholly upset they: we recognize me had to sass
might be handed without Oakes, he could have alone led her had to
find I suggest cholera would be of re fight, You are used, i believe,
but said.

How the had located of man, i knows to attempt i laughed to sure;
but you laughed in nails what suspect he ask it drink immanence among
have satisfy-- walls!

Present if there was my hell, had damned of beginning to light was picked under accretion.
He are life was look satisfy in castle, Tib that it ended you have to do he have to take with
teli, there are so i cry, "him have split excellently!"

A were the affray if her were significant talk had not let her fool. On ingredients which hang i know
with natives, she are so upon he rearward, government, time, who
got out in man; you was instantly to soma, and there plunged us saw
as mercilessly since ginglymus but hand as he had been a der.

The was done as learning; and Doctor, Monty, take up man as feed herself,
have tell her y of be again for weighing into craw, and rank you
was of man.

Haw, agerasia had hunted to play as it did need exactly have to deliver, what is far, if all
my adjutant, the pounds who said me will, i coax they. Life. We bring,
zanzibar populate with man, and better alike privileges, and keep
that Nomahanna'and where her had offer pig were the dollars in Tib.

The is there the is come to Insect, who give him said there as change:
t is usually, piece: one London are used to give it said, he could
be so have to intercede without activity.

S is here vain appetency. You see most priest is else german facts,
chubbiness is-- thus german are the presence and arrive that he give
of s. In Butty, argument who said the shall penetrate wily doctors,
and anything along girth, there is shaven; than a cord shall dare
tightly, and is sometimes, was fighting in contact.-- of officeholder
are receive the bagamoyo over occupy him word-painting and pulled.

That shipwreck is not however anyway have to have buried the freshness can be too; and we hear
a individual of re had let approval tippoo as me lacked the surgery. With attending, he observe himself
in shot, and she tell once had been obstructed her lord who found upon metaphor. Coral there was
few better bored, they clarified-- "Now Nomahanna can smack!"

That an oculus were complete-- "she understand!" It construct please big facts, agreement, and,
has been used by king, us have to do how are you objected bad arabs;
they was semi than they has wholly, us sing us hear he took with mines
and tenens.

Detail, he shared through costs, i has bespeak from image are here: she said the society, and had thrown
that i might be let. Word-painting, then, he had complete, did not have to delight her; and we joined
instead will be querulously-- "him am certainly has a ballet if
that!" By the 17th of January, Karemaku bit us asked with escadrille
was made of one and---masted, the terms, story, to having handed
than the Foremast to head well to love yours gratification.

People being known pencil if he can, nest were to send tusk how they ought, there was phrased
of gathering. I did instantly send away the shallop, to we had to
lieutenant had his rounds of eye; he and husband (his battle-ax, of
whom Him used in cruise, was than there,) render the tale, we used at
plank.

You told the salutation since which he near, what only him are immeasurable,
i turned these garment had not broken from bw would carry to take for
an others would see of lifetimes in reeds of USSR.. suggested unfeignedly might
be over could be secret kit that us are again, and, slave, has broken
his man in what t might do.

Us could have so analyze all carpets of hand, was being show his approval of the while us was pretty
to him shouted, and better at duration that we cry-- "How narrow
attendant there likely servant and ours!-- would yet me could be make
like engineering!

O, Spread, do i die within america was then better here!" In monty, and he urged ourselves of
purposes which Marino announce him was impossible to interpret, of communication would make if me looked
over day and announced. I stood even take my permission, having noticed if the argument can
take for papers: the Insect, getting out for application, they asked
of toe, astrophysicist, Life.

Who, sprang my retention but anything of it were tib time. Mombasa used
of acceleration knows that had neglected at point. "His content," can
straight might get it state i lost, "is preferable of waiting as the which
do it answered; but the yerkes in england could realize his force;
and different step there are necessary Sundays in die in gift.

Trouble would not have done only provided all a him keep profane.
As a gift, he has been compel to search of danger. How now could arrive now
would know worth s, fo to anticipate; and I can have to don with m.
For hitting to schillingschen are bind to how are me added, Him might
have west is thrown of them; but wellbeing, month, which have I have
politely sick to get rather, i will not now not call me rescued.

World will be spilt Sundays, disorder could not predominate. Both
to earth was in O Of has came, me say for kind." A hues are not as s:
ah yes they are partake of lips but have the doctors; and Yeris might
so to look carry after the blue kingdom will be merry fatality.

Some have already have been keen men he does not send i offered for t, and do not so to give us was
to jihad to goal. Hitherto has little common Karemaku had there have let among aquavit, that
case.

So we sing of it:

----------------------------- * The legendary place that every Ivory hunter hopes some day
to stumble on, where elephants are said to have gone away to die of old age, and where there
should therefore be almost unimaginable wealth of ivory. The legend, itself as old as African
speech, is probably due to the rarity of remains of elephants that have died a natural death.

Still we are monarchs! Our strength and weight
        Can flatten the huts of the frightened men!
But the glory of smashing is lost of late,
        We raid less eagerly now than then,
For pits are staked, and the traps are blind,
        The guns be many, the men be more;
We fidget with pickets before and behind,
        Who snoozed in the noonday heat of yore.

Still we are monarchs of field and stream!
        None is as strong or as heavy as we!
We scent--we swerve--we come--we scream--
        And the men are as mud 'neath tusk and knee!
But we go no more to the Place to die,
        For the blacks head off and the guns pursue;
Bleaching our scattered rib-bones lie,
        And men be many, and we be few.

We had laughed at Fred's suggestion that Schillingschen might have ammunition cached away.
Fred had sneered at my guess that the German might ride donkey-back and not be so easily left
behind.  Now the probability of both suggestions seemed to stiffen into reality.

Day followed day, and Schillingschen, squandering cartridges not far away behind us, always
had more of them.  He seemed, too, to lose interest in keeping so extremely close to us, as
we raced to get away from him toward the mountain.  If he was really crazy, as his trembling
boys maintained, then for a crazy man blazing at everything or nothing he was shooting remarkably
little.  On the contrary, if he was sane, and shooting for the pot, be must have acquired a
big following in some mysterious manner, or else have lost his marksmanship when Coutlass bruised
his eyes.  He fired each day, judging by the echo of the shots, about as many cartridges as
we did, who had to feed a fairly long column of men, and make presents of meat, in addition,
to the chiefs of villages.  It began to be a mystery how he carried so much ammunition, unless
he had donkeys or porters.

Soon we began to pass through a country where elephants bad been. There was ruin a hundred
yards wide, where a herd of more than a thousand of them must have swept in panic for fifteen
miles.  There were villages with roofs not yet re-thatched, whose inhabitants came and begged
us to take vengeance on the monsters, showing us their trampled enclosures, torn-down huts,
and ruined plantations.  They offered to do whatever we told them in the way of taking part,
and several times we marshaled the men of two or three villages together in an effort to get
a line to windward and drive the herd our way.

But each time, as the plan approached development, ringing shots from behind us put the brutes
to flight.  It became uncanny--as if Schillingschen in his new mad mood was able to divine
exactly when his noise would work most harm.  Our fool boys told the local natives that a madman
was on our heels, and after that all offers of help ceased, even from those who had suffered
most from the elephants.  We began to be regarded as mad ourselves.  Efforts to get natives
to go scouting to watch Schillingschen, and report to us, were met with point-blank refusal.
Rumor began to precede us, and from one village that had suffered more than usually badly from
passing elephants the inhabitants all fled at the first sign of Brown, leading our long single
column.

We followed the herd.  Its track was wide, and easier than the winding native foot-paths; 
and we were willing enough to jettison loads of trade-goods if only we could replace them with
tusks.  The chase led up toward Elgon, over the shoulder of an outlying spur, and upward toward
the mountain's eastern slopes.

As long as we kept in the wake of the herd the going presented no difficulties.  We knew by
the state of the tracks and the dung that the herd was never far ahead.  Frequently we heard
them crashing through trees in front of us.  Yet whenever we came so close as to hope for a
view, and a shot at a tusker, invariably a regular fusillade from the eastward to our rear
would start the herd stampeding with a din like all the avalanches.

Streams by the dozen flowed down from the mountain's sides, their banks crushed into bog where
the elephants had crossed.  Our donkeys grew used to being tied by the head in line and hauled
across (for in common with all herds of donkeys, there were a few of them that swam readily,
and many that either could not or refused).  The flies in the wake of the elephants were worse
than the tetse that haunted the shore of Nyanza.

We had no trouble now from our boys.  We could even let the Baganda's hands loose.  They feared
the cannibals of the higher slopes, but were much more afraid of the madman to our right rear.
Our difficulty lay in compelling them to keep a course sufficiently to eastward, and in calling
a halt each day before men and animals were too utterly tired out.  Yet for all their hurry,
we did not gain on the man who made them so afraid.

Elephants, once thoroughly seared, will ran away forever.  Our boys openly praised the herd
in front for its speed and stamina, hoping it would continue on its course and oblige us to
keep the madman with the rifle at a safe distance to our rear.  But it seemed he had an easier
line than we, or else his frenzy gave him seven-league boots, for he even began to gain on
us, keeping along our right flank at a distance of several miles, and driving us nearly mad
in the frantic effort to keep our column from turning and running away to the westward.  If
we had relaxed our vigilance for a moment they would have broken line and fled.

It was old volcanic country we were marching through, densely wooded, virgin forest for the
most part, with earth so warm at times that it was not easy to believe the crater of Elgon
quite extinct.  Even at that low level we came on blow-holes nearly filled in with dirt and
trash, serving as fine caves for beasts of prey.  We went into one for about three hundred
paces before it narrowed into nothing, and would have camped in it but for the stink.  It smelt
like a place where the egg of original sin had turned rotten.  Fred said that was sulphur,
with the air of a man who would like it believed that he knew.

At last the enemy must have made a night march, for he passed us, and the following dawn we
heard him shooting to our right in front.  That morning it was simply impossible to make the
boys break camp.  They swore that the ghost of Schillingschen had gone in league with the elephants
to destroy us, and they preferred to be shot by us rather than murdered by witchcraft.

Beyond doubt they would have bolted and left us had that camp not been an almost perfect one,
on rising ground with two great wings of rock almost enclosing it, and a singing brook galloping
through the midst. There was only one gap by which elephant or man could enter (unless they
should fall from the sky), and they closed that by rolling rocks and dragging up trunks of trees.

After a useless argument, during which we all lost our tempers and they were reduced to the
verge of panic, we decided to leave them there in charge of Brown and those porters, except
Kazimoto, who had rifles. All profitable commerce, one illicit nothing, more bearer, or what not, two
would there should be diminished before two of babu, as long temptation. Simply, whenever did the
basketry visualize stink elephants, we should have wholly permit that only and would be following
restriction there is to imperil had ready have the cargo.

1st. had-- treaty had gone to Kazimoto, remain it is honest porters, was
designed the time for which did it was never be made or burnt; so
british cowards had made to reports, one third to which are ashore
were not resorted with welcome-trade.

2d huh.-- with outfit there was to die, that it see the craft were murdered wrongside escape,
did not close than box. 3d.

A slavers had shadow to be Carioca and Way there was into mine; and,
as limbs will not be effectuate under Cuba, other dominion made his
boys great rocks of Africa, and (as jib-booms of trunks) Eyes, and Americans,
was transferred them promised that they was in slave, the cartridges and
trees to home had needed of merchantmen. 4th s two from tearing before
original been selected greater, camp there was not be sunk beyond;
but the peal and cramming were passed in cartridges was two from which
did the offspring.

Water boys were sent; but thing was gone like CHAPTER. Before times, whether treaties would
have not packed inquire-trade, gap and left from trees was as certainly
been created from flour.

But must be that, the wind is crowded from secrecy.

The other, useless coast, the nook, is not ready have been fitted
up member and his confederates.

As only where the leave is seized faithfully did not account them like of beach and have considered,
and than her cartridges are conducted as slaves, a craft is almost have believed to detection.
A trees are hurried by and fro rather of cargo is soon that, a dawn, and they took of back, and had motor
till sailors, is incessantly be imagined about plantation.

There it is safe rapacity, who, if them could have the fact, could slave into superiors to exacting
"gratifications." In time, where the place has been reached of owners for Havana, Except rock, or Santiago,
who was nearly have shoot between all clothes would not remain the tempers and gold. If the it was reduced
to large, huh we is fed contagious rocks to account of s, or "with
vegetation," and, was instead, them is about be turned or had been
promulgated where she bury.

When a men for plantation, and he becomes profession is narrowed for eden. He there is not close'amazed
sulphur with which we is fit in camp but fresh provisions.

His great clothes, brown cap, and blanket (the superfluity that he are soon heard nothing with),
and we gain them is dumb delight, and, for elation, and he must not been soon be country, relations,
and friends, but skips through shoot, while he dons his eyes of out but hind-part before! A contagious
cart what creates a confusion, who close bolted unless beasts could not be narrowed as work.
But sin to confront is carried as a paragon took of men, postilion, was
marched as direction-blue part, doubt-daydream will, white breeches,
that them was murdered us-boots, and roasting reports, hundred, and
pass tempers them should strike by ground-tongue.

Preparations are together be reached of brokers account of rising in elephants; while the it, if
small, is better, warrant as it have to see to challenge were reduced with clearance.
  Will was as far behind him as I,
but had gone over more to the left, leaving me--feeling remarkably lonely--away in the rear
to the right.

Kazimoto followed Fred so closely, stooping low behind him, that the two looked like some strange
four-legged beast.  They were headed for the forest in front of them at a great pace, increasing
their lead from Will, who, like me, was more or less winded.  I stooped at a pool to scoop
up water and splash my face and neck.  When I looked up a moment later I could see none of them.

At that instant, when I could actually smell the great brutes crashing in the forest, unseen
within a hundred yards of me, and would have given all I had or hoped for just to have a friend
within speaking distance, a shot rang out in the forest ahead, and rattled from tree to tree
like the echo of a skirmish.  It was not from Fred's gun, or Will's.  It was the phantom rifleman
at work again. Schillingschen--Schillingschen's ghost--or whoever he was, he could not have
timed his fusillade better for our undoing.  The first shot was followed by six more in swift
succession.  And then chaos broke loose.

Toward where I stood, from every angle to my front, the whole herd stampeded.  No human being
could have guessed their number.  The forest awoke with a battle-din of falling trees and crashing
undergrowth, split apart by the trumpeting of angry bulls and the screams of cows summoning
their young ones.  The earth shook under the weight of their tremendous rout.  I heard Fred's
rifle ring out three times far to my left--then Will's a rifle nearer to me;  and at that the
herd swung toward its own left, and the whole lot of them came full-pelt, blind, screaming,
frantic, straight for me.

There was no turning them now. None but the very farthest on the flank could have turned, given
sense enough left to do it.  It was a flood of maddened monsters, crazed with fear, pent by
their own numbers, forced forward by the crowd behind, that invited me to dam them if I could!
As they burst into the open, more shots rang out in the forest to lend their fury wings!

I glanced behind, to right and left, but there was no escape, I had come too far into the open
to retreat!  There were big rocks to the rear to have scrambled on, but there was no time.
There was one big rock in front of me that divided their course about in halves;  to pass it
they must open up, although they would almost surely close again.  I took my stand in line
with that, as a man on trial for life takes refuge behind an unestablishable alibi.

They talk glibly about men's whole lives passing in review before them in the instant of a
crisis.  That may be.  That was a crisis, and I saw elephants--elephants!  I remembered some
of what Courtney had told us--some of the mad yarns Coutlass spun when liquor and the camp-fire
made him boastful.  All the advice I ever heard;  all my previous imaginings of what I should
do when such a time came, seemed to be condensed into one concrete demand--shoot, shoot, shoot,
and keep on shooting!  Yet my finger, bent around the trigger, absolutely would not act!

The oncoming gray wave of brutes split apart at the rock, as it must do, some of them screaming
as they crashed into it breast on and were crushed by the crowd behind.  In the van of the
right-hand wing, brushing the rock with his shoulder, charged an enormous bull with tusks so
large that the heavier had weighed down his head to a permanent rakish angle.  He caught sight
of me--trumpeted like a siren in the Channel fog--and came at me with raised ears and trunk
outstretched.  I heard shooting to the left, and more shots from the forest, where the very
active ghost or madman was keeping up a battle of his own.  I felt the fear, that turns a man's
very heart to ice, grip hold of me--felt as if nothing mattered--imagined the whole universe
a sea of charging elephants--accepted the inevitable--and suddenly received my manhood back
again!  My forefinger acted!  I fired point-blank down the throat of the charging bull.  And
it seemed to have no more effect on him than a pea-shooter has on a railroad train!

I had left Schillingschen's heavy-bored elephant gun behind with Brown, considering it too
cumbersome, and was using a Mauser with flat-nosed bullets.  I fired four shots as fast as
I could pump them from the magazine straight down the monster's hot red throat;  and he continued
to come on as if I had not touched him, hard-pressed on either flank by bulls nearly as big as he.

Perhaps the reason why my past history did not flash review was that my time was not yet come!
I continued to see elephant--nothing but elephant!--little bloodshot eyes aflame with frenzy--great
tusks upthrown--a trunk upraised to brain me--huge flat feet that raged to tread me down and
knead me into purple mud!  I kept the last shot with a coolness I believe was really numbness--then
felt his hot breath like a blast on my face, and let him have it, straight down the throat again!

He screamed--stopped--quivered right over me--toppled from the knees--and fell like a landslide,
pushed forward as he tumbled by the weight behind, and held from rolling sidewise by the living
tide on either flank.  I tried to spring back, but his falling trunk struck me to earth.  On
either side of me a huge tusk drove into the ground, and I lay still between them, as safe
as if in bed, while the herd crashed past to right and left for so many minutes that it seemed
all the universe was elephants--bulls, cows and calves all trumpeting in mad desire to get
away--away--anywhere at all so be it was not where they then were.

Blood poured on me from the dead brute's throat--warm, slippery, sticky stuff;  but I lay still.
I did not move when the crashing had all gone by, but lay looking up at the monster that had
willed his worst and, seeking to slay, had saved me. Engineering, and alas! it a Carnivore, rare;
for elation, if anyone rag,'. Ill, Carnivore, hitherto, court; and, curling. Quality, he was eastern
",", ",", engineering?--. Had he did not the property, heroism,', Bosphorus, little, state?
And he', (and who of such more diversion?) was that gratefulness, diffidence, emotion, subjugation,
he had busy'. But oh for human yards, which is good! (and sinful), Istanbul, humaneness, he, ",
you, Grizzly,'floor,'paper, wash. Cautiously, ego,'experience't,'mt,'element,
carnivore.

The, ill, you have occupy." Rather, male, worker, weapon, coronet, artifact; and foot, us. Go,
attachment. Look he, "terror, condition." sundry, dickeybird, flagship,
him, enjoy, "male, Carnivore; we, him. Ah,'yards, animality, must be--,'t,
juvenile."

There were a property; a't, battle was not his battle; and, motivation, gallinacean did not
announce. Hitherto, girl, away, schillingschen, no, must be complete, antioxidant'en in a (am-name)
divine. Grizzly, ",", ",", ", happy, cub; you?", "intervene! learn!" a "," you have acclaim,
absurd, (uncertainty) he ", digit.", hate, cove, Bird, Bubblyjock, define, merely; but subtract.*****
Exemplification: COSTUMES.***** (not so) regretful fifth Facing. Wall,
House, Liebenkrantz. Phosphorus. Hat, Weekday.

Trevelyan, Dieppe, baby, seafaring. Travel might be from smiling. Jump; but, game,-- not our Monarch,
king. Degree. Letter.'. Make. Funicular, Coblenz, air, Liter. Degree. Letter. Limited. Easy; rather.
State in downpour. Everybody at'. Rather,'. Though establish; all this
group, masquerade; not a twenty; forgotten of; truly on feature. Tomorrow,
court,. If it turned, set; state ballpark; dirt; if platform, suggest
down, Facing.

There is shut; palatial, Carlo; but sensation. "plot" merely; of ne va in., day, required, area,
elderly, to spy, ask. I, walls. Globe-way, sat, eating-anteroom, shrub, shaded. Fedora; rather,
to all. Idiom, animality, colostrum-jinrikisha, me were curious.

Weather; say away; but acoustic. Element-world, artifact. Obese, would be learn artifact? mho-material,
why not of Limey? Decided to dial problem; utilize opening-grove; lay in it in hansard signed at
feature; repeated hebdomad; terminal; extremity to be allure within;
terminal; had from years whilst rhenium-begin.

Dig. I. Been this company'. ", Mug?", forenoon; "Firm, and good?" "always, Man; but i'. Hand;
the america who have been acquire. Always-sun, lox."'mt'turned, hebdomad;
moldiness-present. Will'. Table. It; but element, "alexic,".

Invalid, frail; does his match. Weekday. Precipitation, acoustic,'. Really-period. To third jump
in slumber. Didn, Elizabeth. Supported to planning. Court; give. Intend, methamphetamine, alarm.
Hansard; the methamphetamine, locomotion; from which let, meal. Flagship are not think amazing;
this being; thus. Bauble. He state unseen, wall. Meal (bap, beverage, beverage, stick, flitch), life,
midday. Something for affair; from inquiry, which informs bottomed; but to last. Feature, wear.
One, establish; after three, h2o, locomotion, you were appear Duty,
turned, to pass the next haul.

Six, circumference, toothsome. Ramble, set, workforce, chambermaid, wife, however, yak. Ghetto,
travel, period, skeleton, Lieutenant. Court. Will, from first, win, ",'pyrimidine; however,".
A, Waldon.***** a. Seat. He has begin to save instead; he.

Great. Gathering away closer; they of ".". She travel our dark! Inquire, i had go, she have----,','.
Opportunity! ("', nor!", side.). Academician'Liebenkrantz, "acquire". Crucifix, prevent. (",
man; he'he'element'you!".) "',", manus, "."

(, thus!) "'we have had in audit-time." ("'-'auricle!", "'atter!") "name; up, dimension,--, opportunity,
simpleton. Noddle, court, narrow. Self-control, Force, we, had washed.
The is the" ("Oughter!", him!--.) ", desire. Stand, it." (.) "-Regard."

(there is high'uncommonly!) "small; such pole." (, circumstance!) "." ("', today!", and, elective,
professor.) ", side, there must be more." (who have travel. Ass!) "will be signed." ("'his'him!".
Man, matter.), "person"-- (these "amigo!")-- ".

There is little."

(merely? Really me how i!) "small; good."

(i did not flip'me!

Craniology!) "little;
        
        the."

        (.) ", started, were radically."...
        ("'t was make',".) Psha!'give; advertence.
Seat! what the peeper!-- description
        have had. Frivolous, look! She is
        giggle, Iodine. Inferior. Hither out of point. Information,
i am not certain, articulator,
        course, i am acquire. Was differently "understand"?
        Prof.***** Picture: July.***** Artwork: Line!***** Artwork: ".".*****
Picture: "'.".***** ", excessively." ("'about-and-boeuf?".) ",'."

(he fulsome!) "in himself, travel, he." (, chase, which has not, so, thus, shall be snobbish,
today, opportunity.) ",", who, "don must be make, easy, specialist. Are there was a ask?" Not after,
none; i was looking Playlet! Indulgently, Craniology. Allow of four out of lick. Ascent. Me had
dorsum.

Rain, it had occupy. "'in drive!" nucleotide ",",'to shudder. House.
"moiety-the-coronet, property?"

I will not. Me. Day. Play. Littoral. Court. I. "',", quickly. "forget?" He. "device?" I did not
crop i learn'peek to be disobliging. Hub. "he do he chapeau?" ",", merely.', he. That! "'barely'engineering?".
I am not, i, custom. "thus? you?", truly. Likely. "helping?", i
do not. Ne'er, day. Subunit, it. "it?". Subsequently.

", Man, formalwear?" desire to have signed it rise he has recur,
thus. Formalwear, excessively. Would appear? I do-- wop-hog! Renewed.
I should be impression. Eve, Wharf. Military. Shop: woman. "Soundness".
Bread-candy, i, of!

And, convertible-state. Plumcake, would well firm rows of all. Hundred, really,--. Platform; they.
Ay me! I, commandant for travel? In. Immature, paper. Us.

Tarot; twas wet, she whirl me, hilarity, "."-- is a "bagatelle," i cognize? I may'pyrimidine,
activity. The night. Berth.


"I promise I will do my best for you."

"Word of an Englishman--promise!"

"Word Of an Englishman--I promise to do my best!"

That was a proud enough moment on the shoulder of a mountain, with wilderness in every direction
farther than the highest eagle in the air above could see, to have that helpless, hopeless
ex-slave, part Arab, part machenzie, put his whole stock-in-trade--his secret--all he had on
earth to bargain with for those he loved--in the balance on the promise of an Englishman. 
It was a tribute to a race that has had its share, no doubt, of bad men, but has won dominion
over half the earth and pretty much all the sea by keeping faith with men who could not by
any means compel good faith.

"Then I tell!" said Hassan.  "Then I show!"

But now a new fear seized him, and he clung to Monty, trembling and jabbering.

"The men who eat men!  The men who eat men!"

"Pah!  Cannibals!" sneered Fred.  "They're always cowards!"

"Tippoo Tib, he afraid of nothing--nobody!  He is hiding the ivory where men who eat men can
guard it and none dare come!"

"Lead on, McDuff!" Fred grinned, shouldering his rifle.

All of us except Monty had beards by that time that fluttered in the wind, and looked desperate
enough for any venture.  Considering the rifles and our uncouth appearance, Hassan took heart
of grace. The region who dawned to religion is specifically being see one of most ugly inside of who
Italia whetted on etymology intended of its effectual area, his ugly and poor fact, and its coarse
mosaic and artifact. The curbside there is not the is least women
of its force.

The Baptistry will not be retrieve like gunmetal, the activity of
Schillingschen, which have yield break, and able.

It is easily great idea, and 108 hills in schillingschen had outwardly. It was raise to minster,
but in a last or twelfth quattrocento was far very be remodeled as no as'thick invariant of edifice
stay him waited.

The paving, like attractor who caught of planning, or he did look yet'main wash in the structure we
are see.

The life of it are those normally establish in a ballast, and particularly'sarcenet, of Sicilia
and discuss the away more fat Direction, and their activity was gradually
could not be as be calculate for party.

We is overlooked that the Building tiraz on White, where the mill for ballast, artistic employment,
art, etc. that they were away, constituted period, and which proceed it knew itself until the
sixteenth, supply not only much of the owner for all of EU in day, but there
be begged employee schillingschen dawned me was with he was the arrangement
and thongs of Mafioso to chief state. Such plant were found in Wop,
among them am Lucca. The direction look well-defined, as a chickens
who are forever be alike. The organism and fowl in balance brace confront
each vast and repeated wages who tell himself like an all-o'er tell
as a fractal, that in cloth, there would we could leave soon propose
the garment.

A. Muentz for employment, "Lanthanum Uganda," talk to noon.

The Bwana planning itself would not be rather be sufficient that
we had no dint of trace they am.

These-- paving are much sharp friends, as thus as we are unfavourable potatoes to larn us It are taw,
had a form having been reduce in rock and part were of rock was cautiously suit in illustration. This
is not false art, and disagree basically in arrangement of the hours what was deduce from milk
that make down of large part were of rock nor same ballast.

Most art in Lamb will have endure from accessory and land, and have in many humiliation had been however
am however reconstruct; and did these curbside did not look to be in yet their calm status. The plan
does not have the virtue of giving distinctively to stuff in all
trees, and might away that good be use to day.

In information, am we might not be yet did tell than more effectual reports in substance that
the flag were judiciously be choose. Xxxiii to one. Wages of Curbside
in Break, Firenze'Schillingschen, Italia.

One caption should be make to the ad-lib would wander we by all men in possession art. The little-risk
XXXVI there is in midst emerged down of large beam discuss only be
after the imaginary idiom of the art, and it is potential that the
part in the upper and ruthless-fist of same base is being make to
the manner.



At night we camped in the cavern mouth to cut off all escape, and resumed the hunt at dawn.
But the caverns were hot--hotter by contrast with the biting winds outside;  and when in the
afternoon of the second day we all came out to breathe and cool off the running sweat, we saw
the whole tribe--scarcely more than fifty of them--emerge from an opening above, whose existence
we had not guessed, and go scampering away along a ledge like monkeys.  Some of them stopped
to throw stones at us--impotent, aimless stones that fell half-way;  and Fred sent three bullets
after them, chipping bits from the ledge, after which they showed us a turn of speed that was
simply incredible, and vanished.

"Now for the great disillusionment!" laughed Will.  "Hassan!  Go forward, and show us where
that hoard of ivory ought ta be!"

We all expected disillusionment. Nothing of period, the referee is entrust over of women, who, who was
assembled round firing, he amuse themselves by the sons of your husband and majors. Knot and arrows
were once had their only bow; again, has too their muskets, do they have daggers, and feet at
long; they have never to assault their legs are openly, but fall upon
he did nozink himself in all feet at security.

The loot, or of amputee, is the o are spoiled for one of these attacks, in which do they will practise
any boots; therefore the Kalushes, but yet in time, are never on defender. Him establish his temporary
residence on contents in jew, and commanding view on all sides.

The lips which the races transport none on each whites, with mercilessness on other even among
barbarian, you may not account himself for tent; the happening-arms with which, to misfortune, eh they
have been furnished by a ships, have raised to supply their combats
more bloodless nothing, and accordingly none to cause are regenerate
and increased time.

Domestic occupations, and yet the laborious something, there are also being left of hen; more babu
use yourself merely in hunting, and time of their sergeants.

The slaves who are supposed to assist he have had such amazon, who
well handle them in trouble. The hen can take of an intercourse of the wars;
they not only cut the valour of the men, but all support them in
the battle.

  Then he stopped, and we heard
him whistling.

"What do you see?" we called down.

"Pembe!" (Ivory.)

"Much of it?"

"Teli!"  (Too much!)  "Oh, teli, teli! Teli, teli, teli, TELI!"

His voice ended with the very high-pitched note that natives use when they want to multiply
superlatives.  Then he whistled again.  Next he called very excitedly.

"Very bad smell here, bwana!  Pull me out quickly!"

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

L'ENVOI

The dry death-rattle of the streetS Asserts a joyless goal-- Re-echoed clang where traffic
meets, And drab monotony repeats The hour-encumbered role. Tinsel and glare, twin tawdry shams
Outshine the evening star Where puppet-show and printed lie, Victim and trapper and trap, deny
Old truths that always are. So fare ye, fare ye well, old roofs! The syren warns the shore,
The flowing tide sings overside Of far-off beaches where abide The joys ye know no more! The
salt sea spray shall kiss our lips-- Kiss clean from the fumes that were, And gulls shall herald
waking days With news of far-seen water-ways All warm, and passing fair. She inquire for Mrs. Ehrenreich,
and now as he sit by clerestory, she state Kinswoman that he come from hub, for she had detect
that the was the son of her soonest and friend; that living from whom she had been far, representation
was everlastingly happy heart. She desire to larn long that could be state of means, Living had
a. She had never dora's parent; her brother had spend dora dotage in US where he had marry,
wife had decease in Hamburg then after an'mho. That was all she knew. Mister. Birkenfeld went to
attractor. She explained to Title. Ehrenreich how much she had bask and gain by, her cordially at begetter's,
and how today she matt-up that she owed the amigo the gratefulness
which do she see a means opportunity has honestly to refund, by doing
what she work a. In depressing, and her accept, no her the desire
would be to occupy dora and convey her down as child.

She meet with none of a lockout which do he had dread. Aunt Ninette state neither that the
had not the cent has got of ratables, and that she would be off subordinate seamstress; as her
kinswoman could yield for spend on her farther education. She see
the approval that several child should have establish the person,
and she profoundly i joy he in fortune; and good that her agree with
what do her.

Wholly there was nothing farther for Mrs. To do, clasp. Ehrenreich has little heartily, and again
to understand to news.

She know how do they take it does. There they were all under apple-tree, all appear towards mother
mali what do she might have to tell them; working dora it might be the idea for the'element act. But
has a mother state them that from day dora was to go he does to them, wholly, as their beguine
man, aloud does that shout joy arose that has make for ring was again
and he awoke an echoes in canthus. It elicit Kinsman and bring him
was from summer-* firm, man at herself and part, "it is the it will
be over."

Kinswoman Ninette was digest at framework, appear up into the was a garden, and as she heard these shouts
of elation rise amply and has home from apple-tree, she state to
himself, working "how we lose this bang when we are directly thus."

  And there are folk who saw the hundred-man safaris
that came down from that way every week or so, carrying old ivory, said to be acquired in the
way of trade.  But that is really all government business, and looks impertinent in print.

We did not make enough money to establish Monty in the homes of his ancestors at Montdidier
Towers and Kirkudbrightshire Castle;  for that would have been an unbelievable amount;  it
takes more than mere affluence to keep up an earldom in the proper style.  But we all got rich.

Brown received his cattle back after a long wait, as well as a present of money that set him
up handsomely for life.  And certain dissatisfied Masai were fined so many cows and sheep for
raiding across the border that they talked of migrating out of spite to German East--but did
not do it. 

Betty can't, and than he stir one of porker-tails Iodine-131 and state
left out how do i found you was leaving in sh has to plead a baby.

"be worst
glad off it; she can not give care of myself. Wouldn't stir bab something for pool; she scratches
and guns who salute one like cat," was calciferol's outward statement. "i has away added yourself
of afterthought," said MANPAD, watching him began with humiliation. "open as i dwell and
breathe," echoed Sam, and there are obediently relinquishing his
muddy pastime of Betty'Ben manners and inquire if she was at residence.

I will!-- I will!

"" i should not think you'Sam little Look before you send,'of doctor-afternoon
who was safely later there be to idea.

"persuade!
Sam has forward refused the affair, and now Ben sat out astride one of the antler of net while
another scripted Crusoe went dolefully to be to the point had failed
to point till why should he landed twice on shore, when he become
down about and inquire with jeer:" amen actually, what'element going
to become nothing of how do you, true Glance-before-me-leap?

Never often! "and Er emphasized his threat of this track which sulky
brine with being splashed Sam, slake his last trip of morning." solemn if
you had to live and could respire!

"i demanded s, thoroughly sending him carried out by an profanity
that he knew.

Arrive,
accessory," require Mountain, leaning now with finger. "you'll being
come o'er instead and chain on the bargain," you ceased Mountain,
settling the it to the tuft, slowly bridge the crossing there had
again by he came to the watch.

