May Heaven restore my charmer to health and spirits, I hourly pray--that a man may see whether
she can love any body but her father and mother! In their power, I am confident, it will be,
at any time, to make her husband joyless; and that, as I hate them so heartily, is a shocking
thing to reflect upon.--Something more than woman, an angel, in some things; but a baby in
others: so father-sick! so family-fond!--What a poor chance stands a husband with such a wife!
unless, forsooth, they vouchsafe to be reconciled to her, and continue reconciled!

It is infinitely better for her and for me that we should not marry. What a delightful manner
of life [O that I could persuade her to it!] would the life of honour be with such a woman!
The fears, the inquietudes, the uneasy days, the restless nights; all arising from doubts of
having disobliged me! Every absence dreaded to be an absence for ever! And then how amply rewarded,
and rewarding, by the rapture-causing return! Such a passion as this keeps love in a continual
fervour--makes it all alive. The happy pair, instead of sitting dozing and nodding at each
other, in opposite chimney-corners, in a winter evening, and over a wintry love, always new
to each other, and having always something to say.

Thou knowest, in my verses to my Stella, my mind on this occasion. I will lay those verses
in her way, as if undesignedly, when we are together at the widow's; that is to say, if we
do not soon go to church by consent. She will thence see what my notions are of wedlock. If
she receives them with any sort of temper, that will be a foundation--and let me alone to build
upon it.

Many a girl has been carried, who never would have been attempted, had she showed a proper
resentment, when her ears, or her eyes were first invaded. I have tried a young creature by
a bad book, a light quotation, or an indecent picture; and if she has borne that, or only blushed,
and not been angry; and more especially if she has leered and smiled; that girl have I, and
old Satan, put down for our own. O how I could warn these little rogues, if I would! Perhaps
envy, more than virtue, will put me upon setting up beacons for them, when I grow old and joyless.

TUESDAY AFTERNOON.

If you are in London when I get thither, you will see me soon. My charmer is a little better
than she was: her eyes show it; and her harmonious voice, hardly audible last time I saw her,
now begins to cheer my heart once more. But yet she has no love--no sensibility! There is no
addressing her with those meaning, yet innocent freedoms (innocent, at first setting out, they
may be called) which soften others of her sex. The more strange this, as she now acknowledges
preferable favour for me; and is highly susceptible of grief. Grief mollifies, and enervates.
The grieved mind looks round it, silently implores consolation, and loves the soother. Grief
is ever an inmate with joy. Though they won't show themselves at the same window at one time;
yet they have the whole house in common between them.

LETTER LXII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. WEDN. APRIL 26.

But in the midst of my exultation, something, I know not what to call it, checks my joys, and
glooms over my brighter prospects: if it be not conscience, it is wondrously like what I thought
so, many, many years ago.

Surely, Lovelace, methinks thou sayest, thy good motions are not gone off already! Surely thou
wilt not now at last be a villain to this lady!

I can't tell what to say to it. Why would not the dear creature accept of me, when I so sincerely
offered myself to her acceptance? Things already appear with a very different face now I have
got her here. Already have our mother and her daughters been about me:--'Charming lady! What
a complexion! What eyes! What majesty in her person!--O Mr. Lovelace, you are a happy man!
You owe us such a lady!'--Then they remind me of my revenge, and of my hatred to her whole family.

Sally was so struck with her, at first sight, that she broke out to me in these lines of Dryden:--

            ----Fairer to be seen
      Than the fair lily on the flow'ry green!
      More fresh than May herself in blossoms new!

I sent to thy lodgings within half an hour after our arrival, to receive thy congratulation
upon it, but thou wert at Edgeware, it seems.

My beloved, who is charmingly amended, is retired to her constant employment, writing. I must
content myself with the same amusement, till she shall be pleased to admit me to her presence:
for already have I given to every one her cue.

And, among the rest, who dost thou think is to be her maid servant?--Deb. Butler.

Ah, Lovelace!

And Ah, Belford!--It can't be otherwise. But what dost think Deb's name is to be? Why, Dorcas,
Dorcas Wykes. And won't it be admirable, if, either through fear, fright, or good liking, we
can get my beloved to accept of Dorcas Wykes for a bed-fellow?

In so many ways will it be now in my power to have the dear creature, that I shall not know
which of them to choose!

But here comes the widow with Dorcas Wykes in her hand, and I am to introduce them both to
my fair-one?

*****

So, the honest girl is accepted--of good parentage--but, through a neglected education, plaguy
illiterate: she can neither write, nor read writing. A kinswoman of Mrs. Sinclair--could not
therefore well be refused, the widow in person recommending her; and the wench only taken till
her Hannah can come. What an advantage has an imposing or forward nature over a courteous one!
So here may something arise to lead into correspondencies, and so forth. To be sure a person
need not be so wary, so cautious of what she writes, or what she leaves upon her table, or
toilette, when her attendant cannot read.

It would be a miracle, as thou sayest, if this lady can save herself--And having gone so far,
how can I recede? Then my revenge upon the Harlowes!--To have run away with a daughter of theirs,
to make her a Lovelace--to make her one of a family so superior to her own--what a triumph,
as I have heretofore observed,* to them! But to run away with her, and to bring her to my lure
in the other light, what a mortification of their pride! What a gratification of my own!

Then these women are continually at me. These women, who, before my whole soul and faculties
were absorbed in the love of this single charmer, used always to oblige me with the flower
and first fruits of their garden! Indeed, indeed, my goddess should not have chosen this London
widow's! But I dare say, if I had, she would not. People who will be dealing in contradiction
ought to pay for it. And to be punished by the consequences of our own choice--what a moral
lies there!--What a deal of good may I not be the occasion of from a little evil!

Dorcas is a neat creature, both in person and dress; her continuance not vulgar. And I am in
hopes, as I hinted above, that her lady will accept of her for her bedfellow, in a strange
house, for a week or so. But I saw she had a dislike to her at her very first appearance; yet
I thought the girl behaved very modestly--over-did it a little perhaps. Her ladyship shrunk
back, and looked shy upon her. The doctrine of sympathies and antipathies is a surprising doctrine.
But Dorcas will be excessively obliging, and win her lady's favour soon, I doubt not. I am
secure in one of the wench's qualities however--she is not to be corrupted. A great point that!
since a lady and her maid, when heartily of one party, will be too hard for half a score devils.

The dear creature was no less shy when the widow first accosted her at her alighting. Yet I
thought that honest Doleman's letter had prepared her for her masculine appearance.