I spent one night there ministering to the wounded as they were unloaded from the great American
Red Cross train. I watched the process with pride and amazement. So well organized was the
army Red Cross that when a train was announced the ambulances loaded with stretcher bearers
were rushed to the unloading platform. In seven minutes three hundred helpless men were gently
taken from their comfortable berths in the train and carried on stretchers to the platform
from which the ambulances speedily bore them to the waiting wards.

During the night of which I speak five trainloads of gassed men from the Chateau-Thierry fight
were thus unloaded at Bazoilles.

CHAPTER VII

MORAL FLASHES

This chapter is plainly labeled so that anyone who chooses may escape it.

A preacher without a preachment is a paradox. We do not fear the paradox, much less the criticism
of the over-religious. But we frankly believe that the solution of the moral and spiritual
problems of the soldier, as the army attempted to solve them, gives a hint to the churches
which dare not be ignored.

The soldier was more truly religious "over there" than he was before he "fared forth" on his
great adventure. And the reason was not merely in the fact that fear of death drives men nearer
to God. That reason has been present in every war. The history of all wars proves that war
engenders such hatred, recklessness, and immorality that fighters have come out of the conflict
more godless than when they entered. The veterans of our own Civil War bear abundant testimony
to the debauchery of youth during the four long years of that struggle.

What is the story of the morality of the American army during the struggle just ended? Already
statistics have been compiled showing that the percentage of disease resulting from immorality
was so small in comparison with the percentage even in civil life as to be almost negligible.
If we could compare the army life of the present with the army life of the past, I am confident
the contrast would be even more startling.

Our army was a clean army--an army whose actions and modes of life squared with the highest
standards of moral and religious teachings. That there were notable exceptions no one will deny.

Why were our soldiers in this bitter world conflict better and stronger than the soldiers of
previous wars? The answer I want you to think about (there are other answers) is that the army
and navy officers, from President Wilson down, planned wisely and sanely to meet the physical,
mental, and moral needs of our boys both at home and over seas. And the results achieved proved
the wisdom of the endeavor. Had the plans been less comprehensive the results would certainly
have been far less gratifying.

My own experiences cause me to draw the same conclusions that many others have drawn. "Over
there" man stood out before his Maker, his very soul uncovered, and prayed with a frankness
he had never expressed before. And God revealed himself. We may not understand the psychology,
nevertheless one soldier saw, or thought he saw, Christ in a shell-hole stretching out his
hands in forgiveness and blessing. Another saw God the Father giving absolution as his straining
eyes caught a glimpse of the crucifix. Another felt "The Presence" as the inward quietness
which follows action crept over him. Whatever the form, the effect was the same. Men met God
face to face and lived.

A captain of infantry coming out of the Argonne fight on September 30, said: "I have never
been a professed Christian. I have always considered the testimony of so-called Christians
as the imagination of religious fanatics. But I saw Christ up there, and I shall never scoff
again." A private standing near turned to me and said: "We all felt the same way about it.
It was mighty real to us."

Not many decades ago preachers used death as their most telling plea for sinners to be converted.
The tragic death of a "sinner" in a community where evangelistic services were being held was
always held up as the special warning of God. The crude way in which this truth was presented
does not, however, disturb the fundamental fact that death does have a sobering effect on human
judgment and human will, and that in the presence of death souls do more naturally seek after
and find God.

A private of Company I, 165th Infantry, was in Base Hospital No. 117 suffering from shell-shock.
He said: "There were only seven of my company left. We killed our share of the Huns before
they got us, but the slaughter was awful. To see all your comrades shot down around you and
then to lie helpless on the field--minutes seemed ages. And decisions were registered in heaven
which we can never get away from." This boy had been gay and frivolous at home, with two automobiles
at his command and plenty of money to use as he wished. He had never been forced to the serious
consideration of the problems of his soul-life until he squarely faced those problems on the
field of carnage.

I was asked to speak at the Y.M.C.A. hut at Rebeval Barracks, where a veterinary hospital occupies
the same inclosure as Base Hospital No. 66. My audience was made up largely of East Side New
Yorkers. The secretary, Stuart, of Jamaica, said to me before the meeting: "Give them the straight
punch. You know how." He led the song service and put plenty of "pep" in it. All the boys were
singing who could. The rest were "hollering" and thought they were singing. Even the French
soldiers and civilians who could not understand stood at the windows interested spectators.
The message was a straight-from-the-shoulder presentation of the life of Jesus Christ and the
claims of God upon the lives of all men. Their keen and close interest showed their respect
and their spontaneous applause at the close was proof that the message had at least registered.
Now, no one is so foolish as to believe that those "rough horsemen" went out from that meeting
to give up all their bad habits, but no one will dare deny that their expression of approval
and appreciation was an acknowledgment of Christ himself and that they were for the time at
least better men.

A meeting in a converted hay-loft in Brouville was suddenly announced by the Y.M.C.A. secretary.
The big stone building was used to billet the soldiers. Their "bunks" filled almost every available
foot of space. In one corner a group were playing cards. In the middle of the room a lank,
angular figure was "coiled" about a mandolin, coaxing an old hymn from its strings. Some were
sleeping, others were chatting, and a few were reading by the light of tallow candles. The
secretary announced the meeting. It was Sunday evening. Song books were distributed. The mandolin
player volunteered to "pitch the tune." Three or four hymns suggested by the fellows were sung
heartily. A brief petition asked for forgiveness and blessings on the boys who with undaunted
courage would soon go into action. A few verses of Scripture served to introduce the message
of the hour. Quietly but earnestly the practical side of a man's religion was presented. The
card game, which up to this time proceeded without disturbance, was now voluntarily abandoned
and the players' attention riveted on the speaker. When it was over they quietly returned to
their game, more thoughtful, because they had themselves chosen to hear the truth.

The Y.M.C.A. hut at Reherrey was a mile and a half behind the line. Briggs was the secretary.
His fine, erect carriage and soldierly bearing brought him many an unconscious salute from
the buck private. He was a Billy Sunday convert. "I have drunk enough rum to float a battleship"
was the way he told of his wild career. The boys at Reherrey loved and respected him. His Bible
class was the most enthusiastic I saw in France. When he announced a Sunday evening service
the hut was filled. Candles served as chandelier and desk lamp. With a sergeant who was a live
wire at the piano and Briggs as song leader, the singing of the fellows not only "raised the
roof" but it also raised the spirits of the men.

About half way through the talk a terrific explosion told us that Fritz was getting busy. Quietly
all candles were blown out. It was a military order. Aside from this not a man stirred. The
message went right on, punctuated by the exploding shells. There was no fear but an intense
interest in the great call of God to the duty of the hour. At the close the men pressed forward
to grip the speaker's hand, and as we walked out under the stars, a widow's only son acknowledged
that he had long been the victim of the drink curse and had broken his mother's heart. "I have
taken my last drink," he said; "I will write to my mother, but she cannot believe me. Won't
you write her too and tell her that her son has given himself to the Lord Jesus Christ?"

The most impressive thing to me about the religion of the soldiers was its wholesomeness. "Over
there" a man dared to be natural. The mask of pretense was torn off. Men were not hypocrites
in the face of death. They were free; and that freedom showed itself in their religion as well
as in their pleasures. The soldier whom I met in the front line trench with "I need Thee every
hour" printed across the front of his gas mask, was not considered a fanatic.

And when an American Bishop consented to share a Sunday night program with Elsie Janis, the
famous vaudeville actress, the great Bishop became suddenly greater in the estimation of Christian
and non-Christian alike, and the passionately expressive "Elsie" had a new and wholesome interpretation
put upon her fun and her jokes by the magic which that combination wrought.

My plea is for that type of Christianity, so pure as to be above reproach and question and
so genuinely human as to enjoy the wit and humor and even the frivolities of life, its Christliness
lifting its pleasures out of the mists of evil into which we have permitted the devil to drag
them, and placing them side by side with the more serious considerations of our life work.

My observations teach me that the effort of the army to solve the fundamental problem of the
soldier's spiritual life met with a large measure of success.

The army took millions of our boys from every walk of life. It sent two and a quarter millions
across the sea. It fed them an abundance of plain but wholesome food. It gave them plenty of
hard exercise to convert that food into hard muscle. It demanded attention, so that a keen
mind directed a strong body. It provided the leisure hour with huts where the touch of home
suggested the writing of millions of home letters which otherwise would never have been written.
Concerts, lectures, reading rooms with books and magazines and games of all kinds were furnished
to all--free. Even something homemade to eat and drink, in addition to the regular canteen
supplies, which covered practically every legitimate desire of the men, could be purchased
at reasonable cost.

Having done all this for his body and his mind, it took a broad view of his spiritual needs,
and carefully selected chaplains from the various denominations and creeds and sent them with
the boys as their spiritual advisers. So splendidly was the choice of religious leaders made
that often on the battlefield a Protestant minister or a Jewish rabbi would borrow a crucifix
and bring the word of comfort to a dying Catholic; or a priest would read the Bible or the
Prayer Book to a dying Jew or Protestant. On one occasion a woman canteen worker aided a Jewish
rabbi to give absolution to a Catholic boy in a Y.M.C.A. hut when a priest could not be secured
in time. In all this is there not more than a hint for the Church of to-morrow?

These our boys, now men, have come back to become the great leaders of our new civilization,
and they will be intolerant of dogmatic denominationalism, and well they may. The church that
holds their respect and commands their allegiance must have a world view of Christianity and
a Godlike love for the lives of all men. And the theology of to-morrow must be as broad as
the teachings of the Bible.

       *       *       *       *       *

    +-----------------------------------------------------------+
    | Typographical errors corrected in text:                   |
    |                                                           |
    | Page 114: soliders replaced with soldiers                 |
    |                                                           |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------+