I found Madame Blavatsky in a little house at Norwood, with but, as she said, three followers
left--the Society of Psychical Research had just reported on her Indian phenomena--and as one
of the three followers sat in an outer room to keep out undesirable visitors, I was kept a
long time kicking my heels. Presently I was admitted and found an old woman in a plain loose
dark dress: a sort of old Irish peasant woman with an air of humour and audacious power. I
was still kept waiting, for she was deep in conversation with a woman visitor. I strayed through
folding doors into the next room and stood, in sheer idleness of mind, looking at a cuckoo
clock. It was certainly stopped, for the weights were off and lying upon the ground, and yet
as I stood there the cuckoo came out and cuckooed at me. I interrupted Madame Blavatsky to
say. 'Your clock has hooted me.' 'It often hoots at a stranger,' she replied. 'Is there a spirit
in it?' I said. 'I do not know,' she said, 'I should have to be alone to know what is in it.'
I went back to the clock and began examining it and heard her say 'Do not break my clock.'
I wondered if there was some hidden mechanism, and I should have been put out, I suppose, had
I found any, though Henley had said to me, 'Of course she gets up fraudulent miracles, but
a person of genius has to do something; Sarah Bernhardt sleeps in her coffin.' Presently the
visitor went away and Madame Blavatsky explained that she was a propagandist for women's rights
who had called to find out 'why men were so bad.' 'What explanation did you give her?' I said.
'That men were born bad but women made themselves so,' and then she explained that I had been
kept waiting because she had mistaken me for some man whose name resembled mine and who wanted
to persuade her of the flatness of the earth.

When I next saw her she had moved into a house at Holland Park, and some time must have passed--probably
I had been in Sligo where I returned constantly for long visits--for she was surrounded by
followers. She sat nightly before a little table covered with green baize and on this green
baize she scribbled constantly with a piece of white chalk. She would scribble symbols, sometimes
humorously applied, and sometimes unintelligible figures, but the chalk was intended to mark
down her score when she played patience. One saw in the next room a large table where every
night her followers and guests, often a great number, sat down to their vegetarian meal, while
she encouraged or mocked through the folding doors. A great passionate nature, a sort of female
Dr. Johnson, impressive, I think, to every man or woman who had themselves any richness, she
seemed impatient of the formalism, of the shrill abstract idealism of those about her, and
this impatience broke out inrailing & many nicknames: 'O you are a flapdoodle, but then you
are a theosophist and a brother. 'The most devout and learned of all her followers said to
me, 'H.P.B. has just told me that there is another globe stuck on to this at the north pole,
so that the earth has really a shape something like a dumb-bell.' I said, for I knew that her
imagination contained all the folklore of the world, 'That must be some piece of Eastern mythology.'
'O no it is not,' he said, 'of that I am certain, and there must be something in it or she
would not have said it.' Her mockery was not kept for her followers alone, and her voice would
become harsh, and her mockery lose phantasy and humour, when she spoke of what seemed to her
scientific materialism. Once I saw this antagonism, guided by some kind of telepathic divination,
take a form of brutal phantasy.