The first thought that comes to the thinking man after he realizes the truth that the Universe
is a Mental Creation of THE ALL, is that the Universe and all that it contains is a mere illusion;
an unreality; against which idea his instincts revolt. But this, like all other great truths,
must be considered both from the Absolute and the Relative points of view. From the Absolute
viewpoint, of course, the Universe is in the nature of an illusion, a dream, a phantasmagoria,
as compared to THE ALL in itself. We recognize this even in our ordinary view, for we speak
of the world as "a fleeting show" that comes and goes, is born and dies--for the element of
impermanence and change, finiteness and unsubstantiality, must ever be connected with the idea
of a created Universe when it is contrasted with the idea of THE ALL, no matter what may be
our beliefs concerning the nature of both. Philosopher, metaphysician, scientist and theologian
all agree upon this idea, and the thought is found in all forms of philosophical thought and
religious conceptions, as well as in the theories of the respective schools of metaphysics
and theology.

So, the Hermetic Teachings do not preach the unsubstantiality of the Universe in any stronger
terms than those more familiar to you, although their presentation of the subject may seem
somewhat more startling. Anything that has a beginning and an ending must be, in a sense, unreal
and untrue, and the Universe comes under the rule, in all schools of thought. From the Absolute
point of view, there is nothing Real except THE ALL, no matter what terms we may use in thinking
of, or discussing the subject. Whether the Universe be created of Matter, or whether it be
a Mental Creation in the Mind of THE ALL--it is unsubstantial, non-enduring, a thing of time,
space and change. We want you to realize this fact thoroughly, before you pass judgment on
the Hermetic conception of the Mental nature of the Universe. Think over any and all of the
other conceptions, and see whether this be not true of them.

But the Absolute point of view shows merely one side of the picture--the other side is the
Relative one. Absolute Truth has been defined as "Things as the mind of God knows them," while
Relative Truth is "Things as the highest reason of Man understands them." And so while to THE
ALL the Universe must be unreal and illusionary, a mere dream or result of meditation,--nevertheless,
to the finite minds forming a part of that Universe, and viewing it through mortal faculties,
the Universe is very real indeed, and must be so considered. In recognizing the Absolute view,
we must not make the mistake of ignoring or denying the facts and phenomena of the Universe
as they present themselves to our mortal faculties--we are not THE ALL, remember.

To take familiar illustrations, we all recognize the fact that matter "exists" to our senses--we
will fare badly if we do not. And yet, even our finite minds understand the scientific dictum
that there is no such thing as Matter from a scientific point of view--that which we call Matter
is held to be merely an aggregation of atoms, which atoms themselves are merely a grouping
of units of force, called electrons or "ions," vibrating and in constant circular motion. We
kick a stone and we feel the impact--it seems to be real, notwithstanding that we know it to
be merely what we have stated above. But remember that our foot, which feels the impact by
means of our brains, is likewise Matter, so constituted of electrons, and for that matter so
are our brains. And, at the best, if it were not by reason of our Mind, we would not know the
foot or stone at all.

Then again, the ideal of the artist or sculptor, which he is endeavoring to reproduce in stone
or on canvas, seems very real to him. So do the characters in the mind of the author; or dramatist,
which he seeks to express so that others may recognize them. And if this be true in the case
of our finite minds, what must be the degree of Reality in the Mental Images created in the
Mind of the Infinite? Oh, friends, to mortals this Universe of Mentality is very real indeed--it
is the only one we can ever know, though we rise from plane to plane, higher and higher in
it. To know it otherwise, but actual experience, we must be THE ALL itself. It is true that
the higher we rise in the scale--the nearer to "the mind of the Father" we reach--the more
apparent becomes the illusory nature of finite things, but not until THE ALL finally withdraws
us into itself does the vision actually vanish.

So, we need not dwell upon the feature of illusion. Rather let us, recognizing the real nature
of the Universe, seek to understand its mental laws, and endeavor to use them to the best effect
in our upward progress through life, as we travel from plane to plane of being. The Laws of
the Universe are none the less "Iron Laws" because of the mental nature. All, except THE ALL,
are bound by them. What is IN THE INFINITE MIND OF THE ALL is REAL in a degree second only
to that Reality itself which is vested in the nature of THE ALL.

So, do not feel insecure or afraid--we are all HELD FIRMLY IN THE INFINITE MIND OF THE ALL,
and there is naught to hurt us or for us to fear. There is no Power outside of THE ALL to affect
us. So we may rest calm and secure. There is a world of comfort and security in this realization
when once attained. Then "calm and peaceful do we sleep, rocked in the Cradle of the Deep"--resting
safely on the bosom of the Ocean of Infinite Mind, which is THE ALL. In THE ALL, indeed, do
"we live and move and have our being."

Matter is none the less Matter to us, while we dwell on the plane of Matter, although we know
it to be merely an aggregation of "electrons," or particles of Force, vibrating rapidly and
gyrating around each other in the formations of atoms; the atoms in turn vibrating and gyrating,
forming molecules, which latter in turn form larger masses of Matter. Nor does Matter become
less Matter, when we follow the inquiry still further, and learn from the Hermetic Teachings,
that the "Force" of which the electrons are but units is merely a manifestation of the Mind
of THE ALL, and like all else in the Universe is purely Mental in its nature. While on the
Plane of matter, we must recognize its phenomena-- we may control Matter (as all Masters of
higher or lesser degree do), but we do so by applying the higher forces. We commit a folly
when we attempt to deny the existence of Matter in the relative aspect. We may deny its mastery
over us--and rightly so--but we should not attempt to ignore it in its relative aspect, at
least so long as we dwell upon its plane.

Nor do the Laws of Nature become less constant or effective, when we know them, likewise, to
be merely mental creations. They are in full effect on the various planes. We overcome the
lower laws, by applying still higher ones--and in this way only. But we cannot escape Law or
rise above it entirely. Nothing but THE ALL can escape Law--and that because THE ALL is LAW
itself, from which all Laws emerge. The most advanced Masters may acquire the powers usually
attributed to the gods of men; and there are countless ranks of being, in the great hierarchy
of life, whose being and power transcends even that of the highest Masters among men to a degree
unthinkable by mortals, but even the highest Master, and the highest Being, must bow to the
Law, and be as Nothing in the eye of THE ALL. So that if even these highest Beings, whose powers
exceed even those attributed by men to their gods--if even these are bound by and are subservient
to Law, then imagine the presumption of mortal man, of our race and grade, when he dares to
consider the Laws of Nature as "unreal!" visionary and illusory, because he happens to be able
to grasp the truth that the Laws are Mental in nature, and simply Mental Creations of THE ALL.
Those Laws which THE ALL intends to be governing Laws are not to be defied or argued away.
So long as the Universe endures, will they endure--for the Universe exists by virtue of these
Laws which form its framework and which hold it together.

The Hermetic Principle of Mentalism, while explaining the true nature of the Universe upon
the principle that all is Mental, does not change the scientific conceptions of the Universe,
Life, or Evolution. In fact, science merely corroborates the Hermetic Teachings. The latter
merely teaches that the nature of the Universe is "Mental," while modern science has taught
that it is "Material"; or (of late) that it is "Energy" at the last analysis. The Hermetic
Teachings have no fault to find with Herbert Spencer's basic principle which postulates the
existence of an "Infinite and Eternal Energy, from which all things proceed." In fact, the
Hermetics recognize in Spencer's philosophy the highest outside statement of the workings of
the Natural Laws that have ever been promulgated, and they believe Spencer to have been a reincarnation
of an ancient philosopher who dwelt in ancient Egypt thousands of years ago, and who later
incarnated as Heraclitus, the Grecian philosopher who lived B. C. 500. And they regard his
statement of the "Infinite and Eternal Energy" as directly in the line of the Hermetic Teachings,
always with the addition of their own doctrine that his "Energy" is the Energy of the Mind
of THE ALL. With the Master-Key of the Hermetic Philosophy, the student of Spencer will be
able to unlock many doors of the inner philosophical conceptions of the great English philosopher,
whose work shows the results of the preparation of his previous incarnations. His teachings
regarding Evolution and Rhythm are in almost perfect agreement with the Hermetic Teachings
regarding the Principle of Rhythm.

So, the student of Hermetics need not lay aside any of his cherished scientific views regarding
the Universe. All he is asked to do is to grasp the underlying principle of "THE ALL is Mind;
the Universe is Mental--held in the mind of THE ALL." He will find that the other six of the
Seven Principles will "fit into" his scientific knowledge, and will serve to bring out obscure
points and to throw light in dark corners. This is not to be wondered at, when we realize the
influence of the Hermetic thought of the early philosophers of Greece, upon whose foundations
of thought the theories of modern science largely rest. The acceptance of the First Hermetic
Principle (Mentalism) is the only great point of difference between Modern Science and Hermetic
students, and Science is gradually moving toward the Hermetic position in its groping in the
dark for a way out of the Labyrinth into which it has wandered in its search for Reality.

The purpose of this lesson is to impress upon the minds of our students the fact that, to all
intents and purposes, the Universe and its laws, and its phenomena, are just as REAL, so far
as Man is concerned, as they would be under the hypotheses of Materialism or Energism. Under
any hypothesis the Universe in its outer aspect is changing, ever-flowing, and transitory--and
therefore devoid of substantiality and reality. But (note the other pole of the truth) under
the same hypotheses, we are compelled to ACT AND LIVE as if the fleeting things were real and
substantial. With this difference, always, between the various hypotheses--that under the old
views Mental Power was ignored as a Natural Force, while under Mentalism it becomes the Greatest
Natural Force. And this one difference revolutionizes Life, to those who understand the Principle
and its resulting laws and practice.

So, finally, students all, grasp the advantage of Mentalism, and learn to know, use and apply
the laws resulting therefrom. But do not yield to the temptation which, as The Kybalion states,
overcomes the half-wise and which causes them to be hypnotized by the apparent unreality of
things, the consequence being that they wander about like dream-people dwelling in a world
of dreams, ignoring the practical work and life of man, the end being that "they are broken
against the rocks and torn asunder by the elements, by reason of their folly." Remember always,
student, that "Transmutation, not presumptuous denial, is the weapon of the Master." The above
quotations are from The Kybalion, and are worthy of being committed to memory by the student.

We do not live in a world of dreams, but in an Universe which while relative, is real so far
as our lives and actions are concerned. Our business in the Universe is not to deny its existence,
but to LIVE, using the Laws to rise from lower to higher--living on, doing the best that we
can under the circumstances arising each day, and living, so far as is possible, to our biggest
ideas and ideals. The true Meaning of Life is not known to men on this plane .if, indeed, to
any--but the highest authorities, and our own intuitions, teach us that we will make no mistake
in living up to the best that is in us, so far as is possible, and realising the Universal
tendency in the same direction in spite of apparent evidence to the contrary. We are all on
The Path--and the road leads upward ever, with frequent resting places.

Read the message of The Kybalion--and follow the example of "the wise"--avoiding the mistake
of "the half-wise" who perish by reason of their folly.

CHAPTER VII

"THE ALL" IN ALL

    "While All is in THE ALL, it is equally true that THE
    ALL is in ALL.  To him who truly understands this
    truth hath come great knowledge."--The Kybalion.

How often have the majority of people heard repeated the statement that their Deity (called
by many names) was "All in All" and how little have they suspected the inner occult truth concealed
by these carelessly uttered words? The commonly used expression is a survival of the ancient
Hermetic Maxim quoted above. As the Kybalion says: "To him who truly understands this truth,
hath come great knowledge." And, this being so, let us seek this truth, the understanding of
which means so much. In this statement of truth--this Hermetic Maxim--is concealed one of the
greatest philosophical, scientific and religious truths.

We have given you the Hermetic Teaching regarding the Mental Nature of the Universe--the truth
that "the Universe is Mental--held in the Mind of THE ALL." As the Kybalion says, in the passage
quoted above: "All is in THE ALL." But note also the co-related statement, that: "It is equally
true that THE ALL is in ALL." This apparently contradictory statement is reconcilable under
the Law of Paradox. It is, moreover, an exact Hermetic statement of the relations existing
between THE ALL and its Mental Universe. We have seen how "All is in THE ALL"--now let us examine
the other aspect of the subject.

