The scene is now transferred further south. Charleston had, it is true, already been attacked,
but without favorable results to the English; on the other hand, Arnold and Montgomery had
vainly essayed to assail British power in the Canadas. New York was the objective point of
those who had now come to be regarded as the invaders of our soil. Its splendid harbor and
its central position afforded a good standpoint. The concentration of the troops of Howe, which
had evacuated Boston, the war ships commanded by his brother, Lord Howe, and the forces under
Clinton, which had been occupied in futile operations in the South, enabled the British to
force Washington out of New York, and to occupy it themselves.

[Sidenote: Numerical Force of the Contestants.]

The whole British force engaged in this enterprise was scarcely less than twenty-five thousand
men; the American force did not exceed twelve thousand; and the contrast in discipline and
equipment still further increased this inequality of strength. Then came the retreat across
New Jersey, succeeded by one of the most brilliant strokes of the war. This was the midnight
and midwinter crossing of the Delaware by the American general and his troops, the forced march
upon Trenton through the snow and cold, and the surprise and utter defeat of the Hessians at
that place on Christmas morning.

[Sidenote: Valley Forge.]

But the colonists, though waxing in strength, were not yet able to cope in a prolonged and
active campaign with the royal army. Philadelphia, like New York, had to be given up. The terrible
winter months spent at Valley Forge formed one of the saddest and most heroic romances of the
Revolution. The army lived in huts, which, as Lafayette exclaimed, "were no gayer than dungeons."
Bread and clothing were sadly wanting. The cold was intense, and almost unremitting. The Pilgrims
during their first winter at Plymouth were scarcely more comfortless.

[Sidenote: Bennington.]

It was early in the following year (1777) that General Burgoyne made an offensive movement
southward from Canada, by way of Lake Champlain and Fort Ticonderoga. A portion of his troops
were sent to Bennington to capture some stores collected there by the Vermont patriots. A vigorous
defence of these stores by the intrepid Stark resulted in the repulse, first of the British,
then of the Hessian troops. The next scene in the drama was what may be called the second decisive
action of the war. Burgoyne, with his whole force of five thousand men, encamped at Saratoga.
There he was confronted by General Horatio Gates, who engaged him in two battles, which, however
uncertain their immediate issue, were followed by a retreat on Burgoyne's part. The Americans
succeeded in turning his flank, and hemming him in; and then came the surrender of Burgoyne
and his entire force.

[Sidenote: Surrender of Burgoyne.]

The consequences of this event were of far greater moment than the elimination from the contest
of an able British general and five thousand well drilled British and mercenary soldiers. It
silenced the complaints which were growing loud against the inactivity of Washington. It once
more harmonized the colonial counsels, which were becoming seriously discordant. It inspired
new effort throughout the colonies. And it decided France to make open cause with the struggling
patriots. To the masterly diplomacy of Franklin we owe it that the great European rival of
England threw the weight of her sympathy and material assistance on our side.

[Sidenote: Charleston Taken.]

[Sidenote: Capture of Stony Point.]

From the moment of Burgoyne's surrender, the tide of the war was fitful, but on the whole,
towards American success. There were still vicissitudes, now and then an apparent back-sliding;
Charleston was taken by Clinton; massacres by Indians took place in Pennsylvania; the progress
of the cause at times seemed grievously slow. On the other hand, "mad" Anthony Wayne assaulted
and took Stony Point, on the Hudson; Paul Jones made vigorous havoc with the British war-ships,
conquering the Serapis and carried terror to the English by approaching close to their coast
with his doughty Bonhomme Richard; Marion and Sumter kept up constant hostilities with the
British in South Carolina; and the vexatious character of the war was evidently wearying the
patience, and wearing upon the determination, of the royal government.

[Sidenote: Surrender of Cornwallis.]

The final scene of the war, at least that which most obtrusively stands forth in its panorama,
was the siege and capture of Yorktown, in Virginia, and the surrender of General Lord Cornwallis
with seven thousand troops. On this occasion the Americans had the aid of a corps of French
troops under Count Rochambeau, while the French Admiral de Grasse guarded York River. The siege
was so vigorous that in ten days Lord Cornwallis found himself unable to hold the town. But
for a propitious rain-storm, he might yet have saved his army, and thus protracted the war.
His attempt to leave Yorktown under cover of night was, however, frustrated by the outburst
of a tempest; and he was forced to send word to Washington that he would surrender.

[Sidenote: Peace.]

This he did, with all the customary formalities of war, on the 19th of October, 1781. By this
act seven thousand British troops, the largest force left on American soil, were withdrawn
from the conflict. It was the death-blow to British hopes. The war dragged on, however, for
two years more. The royalist troops held New York, Charleston, and Savannah, but did not venture
upon aggressive projects. At last, a treaty was made at Paris, on the 3d of September, 1783,
by the conditions of which Great Britain grudgingly acknowledged the independence of the United
States of America.

[Sidenote: The Revolutionary Heroes.]

There would be no justice in presenting even an outline of the American Revolution, without
referring to its triumphs of statesmanship and diplomacy, as well as its triumphs of military
achievement. Washington, Greene, Stark, Putnam, Wayne, Lafayette, De Kalb, Steuben, Schuyler,
and their fellow-soldiers, performed a great part, and that which was the most brilliant and
conspicuous, in accomplishing our liberties. But in the Congress were patriots quite as devoted,
and not less efficient; while Franklin, during his sojourn abroad, exercised with great skill
the delicate and subtle generalship of diplomacy. It would have been easy for the statesmen
of the Revolution to render all of Washington's efforts vain and futile. The triumph of unworthy
ambitions in the colonial counsels might well have brought wreck and ruin upon the cause.

[Sidenote: Revolutionary Statesmanship.]

Had the revolutionary statesmen lacked capacity or courage, they would have loaded the army
with a burden which it probably could not have supported. The marvel of the period was the
almost undisturbed unity, readiness, and practical energy of every branch of the public service;
the devotion of each one in his own sphere to the common end; the general co-operation in the
means by which that end was to be reached; the remarkable rarity of treason, even of self-seeking;
the steadfast exercise, amid the comfortlessness of camps and the temptations of the council-hall
of the highest and worthiest public virtues.

VIII.

THE CONFEDERATION AND CONSTITUTION.

[Sidenote: The Confederation.]

[Sidenote: Bond of the States.]

The Confederation was designed as a temporary civil machine, with which to conduct a war common
to the colonies. The Constitution was the later and permanent bond, combining the States under
a single government. Without the confederation, there would have been chaos in the revolution;
without the constitution, there would have remained the weakness arising from the division
and rivalry of States. It is most interesting to observe the gradual manner in which our civil
government crystallized out of the original elements offered by the colonies; and it is wonderful
to see with what wise deliberation and patriotic earnestness States differing so widely in
manners, in religion, in colonial system, and even in blood and race, were brought together
in harmonious coalition, bound with a bond which the greatest civil war of modern times failed
to sever, and which it seems only to have confirmed and strengthened.

[Sidenote: Early Confederations.]

There were, indeed, local confederations before those which, in 1774, enabled a congress to
meet at Philadelphia, and which, in 1777, established articles for a more regular, though still
a temporary, civil enginery with which to bring the war to a successful conclusion. More than
a century before the first meeting of the Continental Congress, the idea of a confederation
had been agitated among the New England colonies. In 1643 a confederation of those colonies
was agreed upon at Boston, with twelve organic articles, for the common protection and defence.
Here was the very beginning of American unions; and in its features may be discovered traces
of the democratic principles of the Pilgrims.

[Sidenote: Declaration of Rights.]

A general congress of all the colonies met at New York in 1690, for purposes of conference,
when the Stamp Act was promulgated. Massachusetts invited the colonies to meet in a general
congress, which assembled at New York in 1765, adopted a declaration of rights, asserted the
sole right of taxation to rest in the colonies, and passed other important resolutions. Eleven
years before this, commissioners from nearly all of the colonies had met at Albany, and before
this body Benjamin Franklin submitted his famous "project of union." Other conferences and
congresses were held between 1765 and 1774; but it was early in September of the latter year
that the first formal Continental Congress met, at Philadelphia, mainly to concert measures
for resisting the arbitrary acts of the mother country. The rules which guided its deliberations
were few and simple; but even so early we find Patrick Henry arguing upon the great question
of the rights of the States, which has been a bone of contention in this country from that
time to this.

[Sidenote: Articles of Confederation Adopted. ]

The first formal articles of confederation, after several ineffectual attempts, were adopted
on the 15th of November, 1777, when the States were in the midst of the war of independence;
but they were not formally ratified by all of the colonies until 1781, when Maryland at last
agreed to them. These articles contained the germs of nationality, the crude material out of
which the much broader and wiser constitution was afterwards framed. The second article provided
for the complete "sovereignty, independence, and freedom," of the several States, in all powers
not expressly delegated to Congress.

[Sidenote: Restrictions on the States. ]

It was declared that the confederation was a mutual league for protection and defence; that
each State should deliver fugitives from justice to the others, and accord full faith to the
judicial records of the others; that each State should have the right to recall its delegates,
and that no State should be represented in Congress by less than two nor more than seven delegates;
that no State should send embassies to foreign powers, confer titles of nobility, lay imports
inconsistent with treaties of the United States, keep vessels of war or military forces in
time of peace without the consent of Congress, a certain quota of militia excepted, or engage
in war except in certain specified exigencies.

These, with many minor regulations, were the organic rules under which our civil government
was carried on from 1777 to 1788, when the constitution came into force. The confederation
was supplied with an executive chosen by Congress, comprising secretaries of foreign affairs,
war, and finance. It was evident, however, that this league, while it had well served a temporary
purpose, was quite inadequate to the purpose of a permanent bond of union. "We are one nation
to-day," said Washington, "and thirteen to-morrow; who will treat with us on these terms?"

[Sidenote: Steps towards a Constitution.]

The first formal step towards establishing a constitution was the meeting, in the autumn of
1786, of commissioners from Virginia, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New York, and New Jersey, at
Annapolis. They conferred together, and reported to Congress a recommendation that a body,
comprising delegates from all the States, and empowered to frame an organic instrument, should
be convened early in the following year. Congress adopted the scheme, and the constituent convention
was called.

[Sidenote: The Constituent Convention.]

This famous assembly met at Philadelphia in May, 1787, and its deliberations continued until
the middle of September. Among its members were many of the most eminent statesmen and soldiers
of the Revolutionary period.

[Sidenote: Members of the Convention.]

George Washington, pre-eminent in war, and to be still pre-eminent in times of peace, presided
over the convention, and was one of the guiding spirits of its labors. Of the thirty-eight
delegates who signed the constitution, six--Roger Sherman, Benjamin Franklin, Robert Morris,
James Wilson, and George Clymer--had previously signed the Declaration of Independence. It
was in the constitutional convention that Alexander Hamilton's genius for statesmanship became
conspicuous to the whole nation; while Madison, the future President, achieved therein a large
reputation.

[Sidenote: The Non-signers.]

Among others, the two Pinckneys from South Carolina, John Dickinson, Jonathan Dayton, Rufus
King, Gouverneur Morris, Jared Ingersoll, and John Rutledge, were eminent in various spheres
of public life. Some of the members of the convention refused to, or for some reason did not,
sign the constitution after it was completed and drafted. These were Elbridge Gerry and Caleb
Strong of Massachusetts, Oliver Ellsworth of Connecticut, John Lansing and Robert Yates of
New York, William C. Houston of New Jersey, Luther Martin and John Francis Mercer of Maryland,
George Mason, James McClung, Edmund Randolph, and George Wythe of Virginia, William R. Davis
of North Carolina, William Houston and William Pierce of Georgia.

[Sidenote: Issues in the Convention.]

The discussions on the proposed constitution were long, earnest, sometimes heated, and revealed
the presence of widely divergent opinions. Four plans, or projects, were submitted severally
by Edmund Randolph, William Paterson, Charles Pinckney, and Alexander Hamilton, differing widely
in the political systems recommended. Throughout, the struggle was between those who desired
to preserve a large degree of independence to the States, and those who wished to make a strong
national government; and the crisis of the struggle came upon the question whether the States
should have equal votes in the Senate, or should be represented in that body, as in the House
of Representatives, according to population.

This was warmly debated for several days, the venerable Roger Sherman and Hamilton sustaining
the principle of State equality, and Madison and Rufus King as vigorously opposing it. At last
the former party prevailed, after a report in favor of State equality in the Senate said to
have been moved in committee by Dr. Franklin. Other phases of the same contention occurred
in the discussion of the article specially defining the powers of Congress. It was the object
of the "States' rights" party to limit these as much as possible, and of the nationalist party
to give them a broad range.

[Sidenote: The Constitution a Compromise.]

[Sidenote: Powers of Congress.]

Thus, after labors extending through nearly four months, the constitution issued from the hands
of its framers with the marks of compromise and concession on almost every section. On the
one hand, the States were to vote as equals in the second and upper branch of Congress, and
reserved to themselves local self-government and all powers not expressly set forth in the
instrument.

Animated, too, by the true republican spirit, the framers of the constitution inserted in it
that no bill of attainder or ex-post-facto law should be passed; that the writ of habeas corpus
should only be suspended in cases of extreme necessity; and that no title of nobility should
either be granted by the government or accepted by a citizen of the United States.

[Sidenote: Ratification of the Constitution.]

As soon as the constitution was promulgated, a warm contest arose in all the States over its
ratification. The instrument, upon being ratified by nine States, was to become the organic
law of the land. Although it was strenuously opposed by many eminent men, among them Patrick
Henry, a sufficient number of States assented in time to bring the constitution into operation
the year after its submission to the people.

[Sidenote: "The Federalist."]

Although neither Hamilton nor Madison was entirely satisfied with the work of the convention,
both sank their scruples in a loftier spirit of patriotism; and their defence of the constitution,
in conjunction with John Jay in the Federalist, is likely to be read as long as the constitution
lasts. How wisely the framers labored, and the great fruits of their labor, are far more clearly
to be seen now that the great instrument has been so long and so severely tried, than was possible
in their own generation. The constitution has stood well the strain of a progress far more
rapid, and needs far more vast and pressing, than they could have foreseen. It protects the
liberties of a nation many fold more extended and numerous than they could have anticipated
would exist within the brief space of a century; nor does the promise of its endurance yet
grow feeble.

IX.

WASHINGTON'S PRESIDENCY. Thus spoke Gen. Henry Lee, the funeral orator of Washington, and the
father of a later and more famous Lee, who fought to destroy the national felicity of which
his father spoke.

[Sidenote: Test of the Constitution.]

The test of the constitution had come; and it was indeed an experiment well calculated to arouse
the liveliest anxieties of the infant nation. The passions of party ran yet more high in those
days than in our own. Views the most antagonistic existed already, regarding the interrelation,
as well as the probable success, of the organic instrument. But upon one point: all factions,
however opposed, were agreed. The only possible first President of the United States was George
Washington.

[Sidenote: Election of Washington as President.]

The new nation proceeded, in the autumn of 1788, to the choice of an executive. There being
no contest as to the chief office, the struggle turned on the Vice-Presidency; but even in
this case one candidate was conspicuous far above the others. If Virginia had the President
it was right that Massachusetts should have the Vice-President; and as Washington was the pre-eminent
Virginian, so John Adams was, beyond all dispute, the foremost New Englander. Ten States voted
in the election, casting sixty-nine electoral ballots. Washington received the whole sixty-nine;
and our government began with the happy augury of an unanimous choice for its head. For Vice-President,
John Adams received thirty-four votes; John Jay nine; R.H. Harrison six; John Rutledge six;
John Hancock four; and George Clinton three.

[Sidenote: Washington takes the Oath of Office.]

It was on the last day of April, 1789, that President Washington took the oath of office at
New York, and in person delivered his inaugural address in the presence of the two branches
of Congress. This masterly paper expressed the reluctance with which Washington had abandoned
a retreat which he had chosen "as the asylum of my declining years"; his willingness to yield
the prospect of repose to the call of country and duty; his faith in the constitution and in
the future of the nation; and his devout reliance, in the burden he was taking upon himself,
on "the benign Parent of the human race."

[Sidenote: The First Cabinet.]

A very able cabinet surrounded and strengthened the hands of our first President. Thomas Jefferson,
who had written the Declaration of Independence, had been Governor of Virginia, and was the
successor of Franklin at the Court of France, was made Secretary of State. At the head of the
Treasury--then, as now, the most important branch of the executive--was placed the still young
but conspicuously able Alexander Hamilton; the most forcible of revolutionary pamphleteers,
the most efficient of staff-officers, and already an authority on finance. Major-General Henry
Knox, the chief of the continental artillery service, who had presided over the war department
during the confederation, became Secretary of War. Samuel Osgood of Massachusetts, experienced
in civil affairs and a. judicious counsellor, was assigned to the General Post-Office; and
Edmund Randolph, who had recanted his hostility to the constitution, and was now a close ally
of Jefferson, was appointed the first Attorney-General of the United States.

[Sidenote: Washington's Difficulties.]

[Sidenote: Antagonism of Parties.]

Many difficulties surrounded the first President and his advisers at the outset. The nation
was deeply in debt, and its currency was a paper one. The people, oppressed for so many years
by the burdens of an unequal war, were irritated by the necessarily heavy taxes. The Indians
on the borders of the settled States were troublesome. And, to add to the embarrassments of
our statesmen, the relations of the United States with the European powers were strained, and
at times alarming. The two parties which had struggled to fashion the constitution continued
to agitate the country in a more bitter rivalry than has been seen since, with the exception
of the party excitement of the period just before the Rebellion. Their antagonism became more
pronounced during Washington's presidency, by reason of the great European war then going on,
which divided the sympathies of our people and politicians between France and England.

[Sidenote: The Republicans.]

On the one hand, the party which called itself "Republican," and at the head of which were
Thomas Jefferson, Samuel Adams, James Madison, Edmund Randolph, and Patrick Henry, were zealous
friends of the French Revolution. They regarded that great convulsion as a desperate attempt
on the part of our recent allies to found a republic like that of the United States; and they
were in favor of extending the French our aid and sympathy, while the more eager went so far
as to advocate our active participation in the war on behalf of France. On the other hand,
the "Federalists," chief among whom were Washington, John Adams, Hamilton, and Jay, deplored
the excesses of the French Revolutionists; thought their example rather to be avoided than
emulated; and, with a still lingering affection for England despite her tyrannies, leaned to
her side in the conflict which was so fiercely raging.

[Sidenote: State Rights and a Central Government.]

The cabinet itself was divided between these two parties. Jefferson, the "Republican" leader,
was Secretary of State; Hamilton, the "Federalist" leader, was at the head of the Treasury.
On other than foreign subjects the antagonism of the two parties was distinctly defined. The
Republicans were the stout defenders of what they called the rights of the States. The Federalists
wished to make the central government as strong as possible. The Republicans favored strict
economy, a democratic simplicity of manners and costumes, and opposed official ceremony and
formality. The Federalists were the aristocratic party, elegant and patrician in their tastes,
sticklers for etiquette and state. Hamilton and Washington were freely charged by the Republicans
with being monarchists at heart.

[Sidenote: Washington's State.]

Political capital was made of the President's ostentatious style of living, of his cream-colored
coach and six, and liveried lackeys, his velvet and gold apparel, his almost royal levees,
and his well known desire that the title of "High Mightiness" should be conferred upon him.
He was accused of imitating the state of the monarchs of the old world, and of wishing to gather
a brilliant, ceremonious, and exclusive court about him. Thus before he had completed his two
terms of office, Washington found himself confronted and opposed by a powerful democratic party.
John Adams, his successor in policy as well as in office, was chosen President by only one
majority in the electoral college; and when his term expired, the Republicans succeeded in
placing Jefferson in the executive chair, and in holding power for a quarter of a century.

[Sidenote: Washington's Policy.]

Washington's administration, however, proved his capacity for statesmanship as well as for
war, his wisdom and force of character, and his pure and lofty devotion to the interests of
the whole country. His policy was at once vigorous and moderate. At first he preserved an almost
impartial bearing towards the two parties, as indicated by his selection of their several chiefs
for the highest seats in his cabinet. Towards the close of his term, however, the government
became more distinctly Federalist. Hamilton's influence became paramount; and Jefferson retired
from office to put himself at the head of a very earnest and aggressive opposition.

[Sidenote: Relations with Foreign Powers.]

The results of Washington's policy may be recognized, at this distance of time, as having been
in the highest degree beneficial to the welfare of the young nation. He placed its finances
on a sound basis. He maintained order, and put a term to the aggressions of the Indians. He
compelled Algiers to prevent her pirates from preying upon our commerce. He made friendly treaties
with England and Spain. With the French question he dealt in a manner most creditable to his
wisdom, and in the only manner by which the United States could escape being involved once
more in war. He issued a proclamation of absolute neutrality; and he saw that it was adhered
to in the spirit and in the letter. Towards the close of his presidency, the arbitrary conduct
of France towards this country was such that a conflict became imminent. Even an invasion by
the French was threatened. This danger continued into the period of John Adams' term; but the
firm and vigorous policy of Washington and his successor averted it, while the European, wars
in which Napoleon soon became involved diverted the attention of France elsewhere.

[Sidenote: States Added to the Union.]

[Sidenote: General Results of Washington's Administration.]

Three States were added to the Union of thirteen during Washington's tenure of office. Vermont
came within the circle in 1791; Kentucky followed in the next year; and her neighbor, Tennessee,
became a state in 1796. What a contrast in national expenditure there was between Washington's
administration and those of modern times may be judged when it is stated that the average annual
expense of the government in Washington's time was something less than two millions of dollars.
The population, according to the first census taken in 1790 was a little less than four millions.
Now we number more than fifty millions. It may be said, generally, of Washington's presidency,
that it gave the new government a good start on its career of growth, order, and prosperity.
By his statesmanship, which was pure, solid, and vigorous, rather than brilliant, peace was
preserved at home and abroad; and the result was that that general happiness which Henry Lee
spoke of as promised only by the constitution had already at least begun to be realized.

X.

THE WAR OF 1812.

[Sidenote: The Period of Political Settlement.]

The period between the inauguration of Washington and the declaration of war against Great
Britain in 1812 may be regarded as the era of formation and political settlement in the history
of the republic. It must not be forgotten that, at first, many of the wisest American statesmen
looked upon Republicanism as an experiment, and did not place implicit faith in its success.
The accession of Jefferson to the presidency, however, and the events of his administration,
gave the Republican idea full scope and trial. The most philosophical and studious of the statesmen
of that day, Jefferson had the courage to test the theories for which he had contended against
the Federalism of Washington, Adams, and Hamilton, by a vigorous practical policy.

[Sidenote: Jefferson's Ideas.]

Jefferson was heartily supported in this by the great mass of the nation; and it was he who,
thus sustained, established those general principles of policy and government which became
final, and have prevailed ever since. That suffrage is a right and not a privilege, that we
should make large annexations of territory, and become the controlling power of the continent;
and that a rigid economy should be practised, leaving the States the largest scope of local
self-government: these were cardinal articles in the Jeffersonian creed. For twenty-four years
Jefferson himself, and Madison and Monroe, his fellow-Virginians and his earnest political
disciples, presided without interruption over the destinies of the country.

[Sidenote: Condition of the Union in 1812.]

The condition of the United States in the year 1812 presented a striking and most favorable
contrast to that which they had exhibited at Washington's accession. The population had increased
from four to about seven and a half millions. The sixteen States over which Washington presided
had swelled to eighteen. Ohio and Louisiana had been admitted to the circle. But this was by
no means the limit to territorial acquisition. It was President Jefferson who added to the
domain of the Union that vast and fertile tract which is even now in rapid process of settlement,
and which was known as the Louisiana purchase. This tract reached from the banks of the Mississippi
to the base of the Rocky Mountains. It embraced nearly a million square miles, or more than
the whole of the area of the Union as it then was; and fifteen millions of dollars were paid
to France in exchange for it. A great invention had been put into practical operation during
Jefferson's term. This was the steamboat. Robert Fulton put the Clermont upon the Hudson in
1807; and thenceforth navigation by steam was to play a great part in the commerce and economical
progress of the land.

[Sidenote: Inventions.]

[Sidenote: Causes of the War.]

President Madison, who assumed the executive chair in 1809, inherited a quarrel with Great
Britain from his predecessor, which soon ripened into war. The great contest which raged between
France and Great Britain early in the century could not but affect the rest of the civilized
world. American commerce had already grown into importance, and was now seriously crippled
by the arbitrary course respecting trade adopted by both of the belligerents. Each power forbade
neutral nations to trade with its foe. But while Napoleon followed the example of Pitt in making
a decree to this effect, the bearing of Great Britain towards this country, in respect to the
prohibition of trade, was far more arrogant and vexatious than that of France. American ships
were captured on the high seas by British men-of-war, carried into port, adjudged, and confiscated.

[Sidenote: The Right of Search.]

A still more serious assault upon our national honor was made by the British government. It
claimed the right to search American vessels for British seamen, and proceeded to execute it.
Thus sailors were taken from our ships by the hundred; and, on one occasion, an American ship,
the Chesapeake, was fired upon and forcibly boarded by a British man- of-war, within sight
of the Virginia coast. For a while retaliation was attempted in the shape of an embargo upon
American vessels; but this was soon found to tend to the utter extitinction of our commerce,
and the embargo was abandoned. Remonstrance with Great Britain proved to be of no avail. The
English ministry at that time was a strict Tory one, and far from friendly in disposition toward
the United States. Despite the protests of our envoy, the practice of search was vigorously
pursued.

[Sidenote: War Declared.]

This was the state of affairs when James Madison became President. The party represented by
him was now clamorous for war, while the old Federalists, especially those of New England,
as earnestly deprecated it. At last it became apparent that war was the only remedy for the
outrages committed almost without cessation on our commerce. The President sent a message to
Congress expressing this opinion; and on the 18th of June, 1812, war was formally declared
against Great Britain. This was evidently in accordance with the will of the nation: but we
did not enter upon the conflict without the bitter opposition of the Federalists. A convention
of the leading members of that party met at Hartford, held secret sessions, and issued an energetic
protest against the war. This aroused a deep sense of hostility in the breasts of the war party;
and, ever since, the Hartford Convention has been regarded as at least an injudicious demonstration
at a period when war already existed, and when the government needed the support of every patriot
to bring it to a successful end.

[Sidenote: Beginning of Hostilities.]

[Sidenote: Naval Victories.]

The Americans began hostilities by making an ineffectual attempt to conquer Canada. Meanwhile
the English promptly took up the challenge, sent ships of war loaded with excellent soldiers,
many of them veterans of the Napoleonic wars, across the Atlantic, and engaged Tecumseh, and
other Indian chiefs inimical to the intruders upon their former hunting-grounds, to aid them
in the contest. While Tecumseh, however, was defeated and killed, the successes of the American
army were few compared with the brilliant exploits of our naval forces. The War of 1812 proved
that the Americans had studied well the British example and system in naval warfare. It was
emphatically a naval war, simply because Great Britain could only approach us from the sea.
The victories of Hull and Perry showed the greatest maritime power on earth that, though our
navy might be inferior to hers in distant waters, it was more than a match for hers on the
Lakes and the American coast. If the Shannon captured the Chesapeake, and if gallant David
Porter had at last to desert the burning Essex, on the other hand the capture of the Guerriere
and the surrender of the British squadron on Lake Erie to Perry, more than compensated for
our disasters.

[Sidenote: The British take Washington.]

It was the the last year of the war, which continued nearly three years, that the British landed
on our southern coast, and, making havoc of villages and plantations as they went, took Washington,
and burned the Capitol and the President's house, from which Mr. Madison and his family had
happily escaped into Virginia. But the enemy found it impossible to pursue their temporary
success to a decisive issue. Both countries were weary of the war, and overtures of peace having
been made, four American commissioners--John Quincy Adams, James A. Bayard, Henry Clay, and
Jonathan Russell--were sent to Ghent, in Belgium, to meet British commissioners and conclude
a treaty. The treaty of Ghent was signed on the 24th of December, 1814; and, singularly enough,
while such subjects as the boundary line and the fisheries were discussed, that treaty contained
no stipulation in regard to the British claim to the right of search.

[Sidenote: Battle of New Orleans.]

In those days, when there were neither railways, steamships, nor telegraphs, news was long
in travelling from one continent to the other. The tidings of the treaty did not reach New
Orleans in time to prevent General Andrew Jackson from winning glory by defending that city
from behind his cotton-bales. This was one of the most brilliant land-battles of the war, and
was fought on the 8th of January, just a fortnight after peace had been formally concluded
at Ghent.

[Sidenote: Results of the War.]

The War of 1812, while it left many questions unsettled between the mother and the daughter
country, practically put an end to the vexatious disturbance of our commerce by Great Britain.
It also tended to give a longer lease of political power to what was then called the Republican
party, and prepared the way for the "era of good feeling," over which the amiable though not
conspicuously able President Monroe presided. The war also brought certain men prominently
before the public eye. Hull, Bainbridge, Porter, Decatur, Rodgers, and Perry, were enshrined
among the country's naval heroes. General Harrison, the hero of Tippecanoe, and General Jackson,
the hero of New Orleans, later reaped the reward of the Presidency, the indirect result of
their military exploits. The gallant Richard M. Johnson afterwards became Vice-President; and
it was in the War of 1812 that General Winfield Scott won his first laurels, and that General
Zachary Taylor, long afterwards President, gave promise of the military genius which later
so much aided in bringing the Mexican War to a speedy and victorious end.

[Sidenote: Growth of the Union.]

The period of the war and of the years immediately succeeding witnessed a very rapid growth
of population, and a notable swelling of the tide of emigration westward. The great highway
built between Cumberland and Wheeling was all alive in those days with the wagons and groups
of new settlers. A long era of peace was to follow, and to give the country opportunity to
increase, to develop its resources, and to make rapid progress in its prosperity and the development
of its institutions.

XI.

THE MEXICAN WAR.

[Sidenote: An Era of Peace.]

[Sidenote: Andrew Jackson.]

