ROUGHING IT

                             by Mark Twain

                                 1880

                                Part 6.

CHAPTER LI.

Vice flourished luxuriantly during the hey-day of our "flush times."  The saloons were overburdened
with custom; so were the police courts, the gambling dens, the brothels and the jails--unfailing
signs of high prosperity in a mining region--in any region for that matter.  Is it not so?
A crowded police court docket is the surest of all signs that trade is brisk and money plenty.
Still, there is one other sign; it comes last, but when it does come it establishes beyond
cavil that the "flush times" are at the flood.  This is the birth of the "literary" paper.
The Weekly Occidental, "devoted to literature," made its appearance in Virginia.  All the literary
people were engaged to write for it.  Mr. F. was to edit it.  He was a felicitous skirmisher
with a pen, and a man who could say happy things in a crisp, neat way.  Once, while editor
of the Union, he had disposed of a labored, incoherent, two-column attack made upon him by
a contemporary, with a single line, which, at first glance, seemed to contain a solemn and
tremendous compliment--viz.: "THE LOGIC OF OUR ADVERSARY RESEMBLES THE PEACE OF GOD,"--and
left it to the reader's memory and after-thought to invest the remark with another and "more
different" meaning by supplying for himself and at his own leisure the rest of the Scripture--"in
that it passeth understanding."  He once said of a little, half-starved, wayside community
that had no subsistence except what they could get by preying upon chance passengers who stopped
over with them a day when traveling by the overland stage, that in their Church service they
had altered the Lord's Prayer to read: "Give us this day our daily stranger!"

We expected great things of the Occidental.  Of course it could not get along without an original
novel, and so we made arrangements to hurl into the work the full strength of the company.
Mrs. F. was an able romancist of the ineffable school--I know no other name to apply to a school
whose heroes are all dainty and all perfect.  She wrote the opening chapter, and introduced
a lovely blonde simpleton who talked nothing but pearls and poetry and who was virtuous to
the verge of eccentricity.  She also introduced a young French Duke of aggravated refinement,
in love with the blonde.  Mr. F. followed next week, with a brilliant lawyer who set about
getting the Duke's estates into trouble, and a sparkling young lady of high society who fell
to fascinating the Duke and impairing the appetite of the blonde.  Mr. D., a dark and bloody
editor of one of the dailies, followed Mr. F., the third  week, introducing a mysterious Roscicrucian
who transmuted metals, held consultations with the devil in a cave at dead of night, and cast
the horoscope of the several heroes and heroines in such a way as to provide plenty of trouble
for their future careers and breed a solemn and awful public interest in the novel.  He also
introduced a cloaked and masked melodramatic miscreant, put him on a salary and set him on
the midnight track of the Duke with a poisoned dagger.  He also created an Irish coachman with
a rich brogue and placed him in the service of the society-young-lady with an ulterior mission
to carry billet-doux to the Duke.

