Those persons whose sins are too great to be forgiven in this world, must be sent to one of
the hells to winch I have alluded. Weeping, wailing, shrieking, they are dragged to the palace
of Yama, the king of those doleful regions. On arriving there, they behold him clothed with
terror, two hundred and forty miles in height, his eyes as large as a lake of water, his voice
as loud as thunder, the hairs of his body as long as palm-trees, a flame of fire proceeding
from his mouth, the noise of his breath like the roaring of a tempest, and in his right hand
a terrific iron club. Sentence is passed, and the wretched beings are doomed to receive punishment
according to the nature of their crimes. Some are made to tread on burning sands, or sharp-edged
stones. Others are rolled among thorns and spikes and putrefying flesh. Others are dragged
along the roughest places by cords passed through the tender parts of the body. Some are attacked
by jackals, tigers, and elephants. Others are pierced with arrows, beaten with clubs, pricked
with needles, seared with hot irons, and tormented by flies and wasps. Some are plunged into
pans of liquid fire or boiling oil. Others are dashed from lofty trees, many hundred miles high.

The torment of these hells does not continue for ever. After criminals have been punished for
a longer or shorter time, their souls return to the earth again in the bodies of men. Here
they may perform such good acts as may raise them to one of the heavens of the gods; or commit
crimes, which may be the means of their being sent again to the abodes of misery.

Things will go on in this way until the universe comes to an end, when every thing is to disappear,
and to be swallowed up in Brahm.

The Hindoos say, that it is now more than one hundred and fifty billions of years since the
world was created. After it has continued about one hundred and fifty billions of years more,
it is to come to an end. Then Brumha is to die, and to be swallowed up with the universe in
the sole existing Brahm.

By what you have heard, you will learn that the Hindoos expect, by their sufferings, to make
an atonement for their sins. But there is no atonement for sin, except through the blood of
Jesus Christ. We must come as lost sinners to our heavenly Father, confess our transgressions
to him, and plead for his forgiveness, only through the sufferings and death which Christ endured.
My dear children, have you done this? If not, do it speedily, or the regions of the lost must
soon be your everlasting abode.

CHAPTER VIII.

HINDOO CASTES.

My dear Children--The people of India are divided into castes, as they are called. Their sacred
books declare, that after Brumha had peopled the heavens above and the worlds below, he created
the human race, consisting of four classes or castes. From his mouth proceeded the Brahmin
caste. Those of this class are the highest and noblest beings on earth, and hold the office
of priests. At the same time there flowed from his mouth the Vedas, or sacred books, of which
the Brahmins are the sole teachers To their fellow-men, they were to give such parts of these
books as they thought best. From Brumha's arm proceeded the military caste. The business of
this class is to defend their country when attacked by enemies. From his breast proceeded the
third caste, consisting of farmers and merchants. From his feet, the member of inferiority,
proceeded the Sudras, or servile caste. Carpenters, braziers, weavers, dyers, and the manual
cultivators of the soil, are included in this class.

Caste is not a civil, but a sacred institution. You must get some one older than yourself to
explain what this means. Caste is a difference of kind. Hence, a man of one caste can never
be changed into a man of another caste, any more than a lion can be changed into a mole, or
a mole into a lion. Each caste has its laws, the breaking of which is attended with great disgrace,
and even degradation below all the other castes. For instance, if a Brahmin should, by eating
any forbidden thing, break his caste, he would sink below all the other castes. He would become
an outcast, or pariah. For beneath the fourth, or lowest caste, there is a class of people
belonging to no caste--a class of outcasts, held in the utmost abhorrence.

By the system of castes, the Hindoos have been divided into so many selfish sections, each
scowling on all the rest with feelings of hatred and contempt. The spirit which upholds it,
is similar to that spirit which says, "Stand by thyself, for I am holier than thou," and, of
course, is nothing but pride. This is one of the greatest obstacles to the spread of Christianity
in this dark land, and for the exhibition of which we were lately obliged to cut off many of
the members of our churches.

The Brahmins, in consequence of their being of the highest caste, and of their having been
taught from their infancy to regard all other classes of men with the utmost contempt, are
very proud. They make great efforts to keep themselves pure, in their sense of the word, both
without and within. They are exceedingly afraid of being defiled by persons of other castes.
They have the utmost dread even of being touched by a pariah. For them to eat with any of these
pariahs, or to go into their houses, or to drink water which they have drawn, or from vessels
which they have handled, is attended with the loss of their caste. A Brahmin who should enter
their houses, or permit them to enter his, would be cut off from his caste, and could not be
restored without many troublesome ceremonies and great expense. The pariahs are considered
to be so low, that if a Brahmin were to touch them, even with the end of a long pole, he would
be looked upon as polluted In some districts they are obliged to make a long circuit, when
they perceive Brahmins in the way, that their breath may not infect them, or their shadow fall
upon them as they pass. In some places their very approach is sufficient to pollute a whole
neighborhood.

The Brahmins carry their ideas of purity very far. Should a Sudra happen to look upon the vessels
in which they cook their food, they would be considered as defiled. They can never touch any
kind of leather or skin, except the skin of the tiger and antelope. The most disagreeable of
all American fashions, in their eyes, is that of boots and gloves. They rarely eat their food
from plates; and when they do so, it is only at home. They use the leaf of the plantain or
other trees as a substitute. To offer them any thing to eat on a metal or earthen plate which
others have used, would be considered a great affront. For the same reason, they will neither
use a spoon nor a fork when they eat; and they are astonished that any one, after having applied
them to their mouths, and infected them with saliva, should repeat the act a second time. They
have a great abhorrence of the toothpick, if used a second time. When they eat any thing dry,
they throw it into their mouths, so that the fingers may not approach the lips.

They do not drink as we do, by applying the cup to the lips. This would be considered a gross
impropriety. They pour the water into their months. The reason why they do these things is,
because they consider the saliva to be the most filthy secretion that comes from the body.
It is on this account that no one is ever permitted to spit within doors.

The use of animal food they consider to be defiling. Not only will they not eat animal food,
but they will eat nothing that has the principle of life in it. On this account, they cannot
eat eggs of any kind. I was once breaking an egg in my medicine-room at Panditeripo, while
a Brahmin was present. He told me that, under such circumstances, he could not remain with
me any longer. In his view, I was committing a great sin. To kill an ox or a cow, is considered
by them as a crime which can never be atoned for, and to eat their flesh is a defilement which
can never be washed away. To kill a cow is, by Hindoo law, punishable with death.

The touch of most animals, particularly that of the dog, defiles a Brahmin. Should a dog touch
them, they would be obliged instantly to plunge into water, and wash their clothes, in order
to get rid of such a stain. Notwithstanding this, the dog is one of the gods worshipped by
the Hindoos.

The Hindoos consider themselves to be unclean if they have assisted at a funeral. When the
ceremony is over, they immediately plunge into water for the sake of purification. Even the
news of the death of a relative, a hundred miles off, has the same effect. The person who hears
such news is considered unclean until he has bathed. In unison with this feeling, a person
is no sooner dead, than he is hastened away to be buried or burned; for, until this is done,
those in the house can neither eat nor drink, nor go on with their occupations.

A Brahmin who is particular in his delicacy, must be careful what he treads upon. He is obliged
to wash his body or bathe, if he happens to tread on a bone, or a broken pot, a bit of rag,
or a leaf from which one has been eating. He must also be careful where he sits down. Some
devotees always carry their seats with them, that is, a tiger or antelope's skin, which are
always held pure. Some are contented with a mat. They may sit down on the ground without defilement,
provided it has been newly rubbed over with cow-dung. This last specific is used daily to purify
their houses from the defilement occasioned by comers, and goers. When thus applied, diluted
with water, it has unquestionably one good effect. It completely destroys the fleas and other
insects, with which they are very much annoyed.

There is one thing more which I wish to mention. It is, that all the high castes consider the
use of intoxicating drinks to be defiling. I hope that you, my dear children, will always have
the same opinion, and never touch them any sooner than you would touch arsenic or other poisons.

A person may be restored to his caste, provided he has not committed an unpardonable offence.
This is done as follows. After he has gained the consent of his relations to be restored he
prostrates himself very humbly before them, they being assembled for that purpose, and submits
to the blows or other punishment which they may think proper to inflict, or pays the fine which
they may have laid upon him. Then, after shedding tears of sorrow, and making promises that,
by his future conduct, he will wipe away the stain of his expulsion from caste, he makes the
shaashtaangkum before the assembly. This being done, he is declared fit to be restored to his
tribe.

When a man has been expelled from his caste for some great offence, those who restore him sometimes
slightly burn his tongue with a piece of gold made hot. They likewise apply to different parts
of the body redhot iron stamps, which leave marks that remain for ever. Sometimes they compel
the offender to walk on burning embers; and to complete the purification, he must drink the
punchakaryam, which literally means the five things; these all come from the cow, and must
be mixed together. The first three of these I will mention, namely, the milk, butter, and curds.
The other two, for the sake of delicacy, I must not mention. After the ceremony of punchakaryam
is finished the person who has been expelled from his caste must give a grand feast. This finishes
all he has to do, and he is then restored to favor.

