Many schools, both public and private, have now adopted--in most cases unconsciously--many
of Spencer's more detailed suggestions. The laboratory method of instruction, for example,
now common for scientific subjects in good schools, is an application of his doctrines of concrete
illustration, training in the accurate use of the senses, and subordination of book-work. Many
schools realise, too, that learning by heart and, in general, memorising from books are not
the only means of storing the mind of a child. They should make parts of a sound education,
but should not be used to the exclusion of learning through eye, ear, and hand. Spencer pointed
out with much elaboration that children acquire in their early years a vast amount of information
exclusively through the incessant use of their senses. To-day teachers know this fact, and
realise much better than the teachers of fifty years ago did, that all through the school and
college period the pupils should be getting a large part of their new knowledge through the
careful application of their own powers of observation, aided, indeed, by books and pictures
which record the observations, old and new, of other people. The young human being, unlike
the puppy or the kitten, is not confined to the use of his own senses as sources of information
and discovery; but can enjoy the fruits of a prodigious width and depth of observation acquired
by preceding generations and adult members of his own generation. A recent illustration of
this extension of the method of observation in teaching to observations made by other people
is the new method of giving moral instruction to school children through photographs of actual
scenes which illustrate both good morals and bad, the exhibition of the photographs being accompanied
by a running oral comment from the teacher. In this kind of moral instruction it seems to be
possible to interest all kinds of children, both civilised and barbarous, both ill-bred and
well-bred. The teaching comes through the eye, for the children themselves observe intently
the pictures which the lantern throws on the screen; but the striking scenes thus put before
them probably lie in most instances quite outside the region of their own experiences.

The essay on "What Knowledge is of Most Worth?" contains a hot denunciation of that kind of
information which in most schools used to usurp the name of history. It is enough to say of
this part of Spencer's educational doctrine that all the best historical writers since the
middle of the nineteenth century seem to have adopted the principles which he declared should
govern the writing of history. As a result, the teaching of history in schools and colleges
has undergone a profound change. It now deals with the nature and action of government, central,
local, and ecclesiastical, with social observances, industrial systems, and the customs which
regulate popular life, out-of-doors and indoors. It depicts also the intellectual condition
of the nation and the progress it has made in applied science, the fine arts, and legislation,
and includes descriptions of the peoples' food, shelters, and amusements. To this result many
authors and teachers have contributed; but Spencer's violent denunciation of history as it
was taught in his time has greatly promoted this important reform.

Many twentieth-century teachers are sure to put in practice Spencer's exhortation to teach
children to draw with pen and pencil, and to use paints and brush. He maintained that the common
omission of drawing as an important element in the training of children was in contempt of
some of the most obvious of nature's suggestions with regard to the natural development of
human faculties; and the better recent practice in some English and American schools verifies
his statement; nevertheless some of the best secondary schools in both countries still fail
to recognise drawing and painting as important elements in liberal education.

Modern society as yet hardly approaches the putting into effective practice of the sound views
which Spencer set forth with great detail in his essay on "Physical Education." The instruction
given in schools and colleges on the care of the body and the laws of health is still very
meagre; and in certain subjects of the utmost importance no instruction whatever is given,
as, for example, in the normal methods of reproduction in plants and animals, in eugenics,
and in the ruinous consequences of disregarding sexual purity and honour. In one respect his
fundamental doctrine of freedom, carried into the domain of physical exercise, has been extensively
adopted in England, on the Continent, and in America. He taught that although gymnastics, military
drill, and formal exercises of the limbs are better than nothing, they can never serve in place
of the plays prompted by nature. He maintained that "for girls as well as boys the sportive
activities to which the instincts impel are essential to bodily welfare." This principle is
now being carried into practice not only for school-children, but for operatives in factories,
clerks, and other young persons whose occupations are sedentary and monotonous. For all such
persons, free plays are vastly better than formal exercises of any sort.

The wide adoption of Spencer's educational ideas has had to await the advent of the new educational
administration and the new public interest therein. It awaited the coming of the state university
in the United States and of the city university in England, the establishment of numerous technical
schools, the profound modifications made in grammar schools and academies, and the multiplication
in both countries of the secondary schools called high schools. In other words, his ideas gradually
gained admission to a vast number of new institutions of education, which were created and
maintained because both the governments and the nations felt a new sense of responsibility
for the training of the future generations. These new agencies have been created in great variety,
and the introduction of Spencer's ideas has been much facilitated by this variety. These institutions
were national, state, or municipal. They were tax-supported or endowed. They charged tuition
fees, or were open to competent children or adults without fee. They undertook to meet alike
the needs of the individual and the needs of the community; and this undertaking involved the
introduction of many new subjects of instruction and many new methods. Through their variety
they could be sympathetic with both individualism and collectivism. The variety of instruction
offered is best illustrated in the strongest American universities, some of which are tax-supported
and some endowed. These universities maintain a great variety of courses of instruction in
subjects none of which was taught with the faintest approach to adequacy in American universities
sixty years ago; but in making these extensions the universities have not found it necessary
to reduce the instruction offered in the classics and mathematics. The traditional cultural
studies are still provided; but they represent only one programme among many, and no one is
compelled to follow it. The domination of the classics is at an end; but any student who prefers
the traditional path to culture, or whose parents choose that path for him, will find in several
American universities much richer provisions of classical instruction than any university in
the country offered sixty years ago. The present proposals to widen the influence of Oxford
University do not mean, therefore, that the classics, history, and philosophy are to be taught
less there, but only that other subjects are to be taught more, and that a greater number and
variety of young men will be prepared there for the service of the nation.

The new public interest in education as a necessary of modern industrial and political life
has gradually brought about a great increase in the proportional number of young men and women
whose education is prolonged beyond the period of primary or elementary instruction; and this
multitude of young people is preparing for a great variety of callings, many of which are new
within sixty years, having been brought into being by the extraordinary advances of applied
science. The advent of these new callings has favoured the spread of Spencer's educational
ideas. The recent agitation in favour of what is called vocational training is a vivid illustration
of the wide acceptance of his arguments. Even the farmers, their farm-hands, and their children
must nowadays be offered free instruction in agriculture; because the public, and especially
the urban public, believes that by disseminating better methods of tillage, better seed, and
appropriate manures, the yield of the farms can be improved in quality and multiplied in quantity.
In regard to all material interests, the free peoples are acting on the principle that science
is the knowledge of most worth. Spencer's doctrine of natural consequences in place of artificial
penalties, his view that all young people should be taught how to be wise parents and good
citizens, and his advocacy of instruction in public and private hygiene, lie at the roots of
many of the philanthropic and reformatory movements of the day.

On the whole, Herbert Spencer has been fortunate among educational philosophers. He has not
had to wait so long for the acceptance of his teachings as Comenius, Montaigne, or Rousseau
waited. His ideas have been floated on a prodigious tide of industrial and social change, which
necessarily involved wide-spread and profound educational reform.

This introduction deals with Spencer's four essays on education; but in the present volume
are included three other famous essays written by him during the same period (1854-59) which
produced the essays on education. All three are germane to the educational essays, because
they deal with the general law of human progress, with the genesis of that science which Spencer
thought to be the knowledge of most worth, and with the origin and function of music, a subject
which he maintained should play an important part in any scheme of education.

                                                       CHARLES W. ELIOT.

SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY

WORKS. The Proper Sphere of Government, 1843; Social Statics, 1850; Theory of Population (Westminster
Review), April 1852; The Development of Hypothesis (The Leader), 20th March 1852; The Ultimate
Laws of Physiology (National Review), April 1857; Essays, Scientific, Political and Speculative,
2 vols., 1858-63; Education, 1861; A System of Synthetic Philosophy (12 vols., 1862-96), made
up as follows: First Principles, 1862; Principles of Biology, 2 vols., 1864-7; Principles of
Psychology, 2 vols., 1870-2; Principles of Sociology, 3 vols., 1876-96; Ceremonial Institutions,
1879; Principles of Morality, 2 vols., 1879-93 (vol. i, part I published as Data of Ethics,
1879; part 4 as Justice, 1891); Political Institutions, 1882. Meanwhile the following works
were also published: The Classification of the Sciences, 1864; The Study of Sociology, 1872;
Descriptive Sociology, 1873; The Man versus the State, 1884; The Factors of Organic Evolution,
1887; The Inadequacy of Natural Selection, 1893. Spencer's Autobiography appeared posthumously,
2 vols., 1904.

COLLECTED EDITION. Nineteen volumes, 1861-1902.

BIOGRAPHY AND CRITICISM. T. Funk-Brentano, Les Sophistes grecs et les Sophistes contemporains
(Mill and Spencer), 1879; F.H. Collins, An Epitome of the Synthetic Philosophy, 1889; H. Sidgwick,
Lectures on the Ethics of Green, Spencer and Martineau, 1902; 'The Philosophy of Herbert Spencer'
(in The Philosophy of Kant and Other Lectures, 1905); D. Duncan, An Introduction to the Philosophy
of Spencer, 1904; Life and Letters of Herbert Spencer, 1908; J. Royce, Herbert Spencer. An
Estimate and a Review, 1904; J.A. Thomson, Herbert Spencer, 1906; W.H. Hudson, Herbert Spencer,
1916; J. Rumney, Herbert Spencer's Sociology, 1934; R.C.K. Ensor, Some Reflections on Herbert
Spencer's Doctrine, 1946.

CONTENTS

                                                                    PAGE
Introduction by Charles W. Eliot                                   vii

PART I

EDUCATION: INTELLECTUAL, MORAL, AND PHYSICAL

WHAT KNOWLEDGE IS OF MOST WORTH?                                       1

INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION                                                45

MORAL EDUCATION                                                       84

PHYSICAL EDUCATION                                                   116

PART II

ESSAYS ON KINDRED SUBJECTS

PROGRESS: ITS LAW AND CAUSE                                          153

ON MANNERS AND FASHION                                               198

ON THE GENESIS OF SCIENCE                                            239

ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF LAUGHTER                                        298

ON THE ORIGIN AND FUNCTION OF MUSIC                                  310

ORIGINAL PREFACE

TO

EDUCATION: INTELLECTUAL, MORAL, AND PHYSICAL

The four chapters of which this work consists, originally appeared as four Review-articles:
the first in the Westminster Review for July 1859; the second in the North British Review for
May 1854; and the remaining two in the British Quarterly Review for April 1858 and for April
1859. Severally treating different divisions of the subject, but together forming a tolerably
complete whole, I originally wrote them with a view to their republication in a united form;
and they would some time since have thus been issued, had not a legal difficulty stood in the
way. This difficulty being now removed, I hasten to fulfil the intention with which they were
written.

That in their first shape these chapters were severally independent, is the reason to be assigned
for some slight repetitions which occur in them: one leading idea, more especially, reappearing
twice. As, however, this idea is on each occasion presented under a new form, and as it can
scarcely be too much enforced, I have not thought well to omit any of the passages embodying it.

Some additions of importance will be found in the chapter on Intellectual Education; and in
the one on Physical Education there are a few minor alterations. But the chief changes which
have been made, are changes of expression: all of the essays having undergone a careful verbal
revision.

                                                                    H.S.
LONDON, May 1861

SPENCER'S ESSAYS

PART I--ON EDUCATION

WHAT KNOWLEDGE IS OF MOST WORTH?

It has been truly remarked that, in order of time, decoration precedes dress. Among people
who submit to great physical suffering that they may have themselves handsomely tattooed, extremes
of temperature are borne with but little attempt at mitigation. Humboldt tells us that an Orinoco
Indian, though quite regardless of bodily comfort, will yet labour for a fortnight to purchase
pigment wherewith to make himself admired; and that the same woman who would not hesitate to
leave her hut without a fragment of clothing on, would not dare to commit such a breach of
decorum as to go out unpainted. Voyagers find that coloured beads and trinkets are much more
prized by wild tribes than are calicoes or broadcloths. And the anecdotes we have of the ways
in which, when shirts and coats are given, savages turn them to some ludicrous display, show
how completely the idea of ornament predominates over that of use. Nay, there are still more
extreme illustrations: witness the fact narrated by Capt. Speke of his African attendants,
who strutted about in their goat-skin mantles when the weather was fine, but when it was wet,
took them off, folded them up, and went about naked, shivering in the rain! Indeed, the facts
of aboriginal life seem to indicate that dress is developed out of decorations. And when we
remember that even among ourselves most think more about the fineness of the fabric than its
warmth, and more about the cut than the convenience--when we see that the function is still
in great measure subordinated to the appearance--we have further reason for inferring such
an origin.

It is curious that the like relations hold with the mind. Among mental as among bodily acquisitions,
the ornamental comes before the useful. Not only in times past, but almost as much in our own
era, that knowledge which conduces to personal well-being has been postponed to that which
brings applause. In the Greek schools, music, poetry, rhetoric, and a philosophy which, until
Socrates taught, had but little bearing upon action, were the dominant subjects; while knowledge
aiding the arts of life had a very subordinate place. And in our own universities and schools
at the present moment, the like antithesis holds. We are guilty of something like a platitude
when we say that throughout his after-career, a boy, in nine cases out of ten, applies his
Latin and Greek to no practical purposes. The remark is trite that in his shop, or his office,
in managing his estate or his family, in playing his part as director of a bank or a railway,
he is very little aided by this knowledge he took so many years to acquire--so little, that
generally the greater part of it drops out of his memory; and if he occasionally vents a Latin
quotation, or alludes to some Greek myth, it is less to throw light on the topic in hand than
for the sake of effect. If we inquire what is the real motive for giving boys a classical education,
we find it to be simply conformity to public opinion. Men dress their children's minds as they
do their bodies, in the prevailing fashion. As the Orinoco Indian puts on paint before leaving
his hut, not with a view to any direct benefit, but because he would be ashamed to be seen
without it; so, a boy's drilling in Latin and Greek is insisted on, not because of their intrinsic
value, but that he may not be disgraced by being found ignorant of them--that he may have "the
education of a gentleman"--the badge marking a certain social position, and bringing a consequent
respect.

This parallel is still more clearly displayed in the case of the other sex. In the treatment
of both mind and body, the decorative element has continued to predominate in a greater degree
among women than among men. Originally, personal adornment occupied the attention of both sexes
equally. In these latter days of civilisation, however, we see that in the dress of men the
regard for appearance has in a considerable degree yielded to the regard for comfort; while
in their education the useful has of late been trenching on the ornamental. In neither direction
has this change gone so far with women. The wearing of earrings, finger-rings, bracelets; the
elaborate dressings of the hair; the still occasional use of paint; the immense labour bestowed
in making habiliments sufficiently attractive; and the great discomfort that will be submitted
to for the sake of conformity; show how greatly, in the attiring of women, the desire of approbation
overrides the desire for warmth and convenience. And similarly in their education, the immense
preponderance of "accomplishments" proves how here, too, use is subordinated to display. Dancing,
deportment, the piano, singing, drawing--what a large space do these occupy! If you ask why
Italian and German are learnt, you will find that, under all the sham reasons given, the real
reason is, that a knowledge of those tongues is thought ladylike. It is not that the books
written in them may be utilised, which they scarcely ever are; but that Italian and German
songs may be sung, and that the extent of attainment may bring whispered admiration. The births,
deaths, and marriages of kings, and other like historic trivialities, are committed to memory,
not because of any direct benefits that can possibly result from knowing them: but because
society considers them parts of a good education--because the absence of such knowledge may
bring the contempt of others. When we have named reading, writing, spelling, grammar, arithmetic,
and sewing, we have named about all the things a girl is taught with a view to their actual
uses in life; and even some of these have more reference to the good opinion of others than
to immediate personal welfare.

Thoroughly to realise the truth that with the mind as with the body the ornamental precedes
the useful, it is requisite to glance at its rationale. This lies in the fact that, from the
far past down even to the present, social needs have subordinated individual needs, and that
the chief social need has been the control of individuals. It is not, as we commonly suppose,
that there are no governments but those of monarchs, and parliaments, and constituted authorities.
These acknowledged governments are supplemented by other unacknowledged ones, that grow up
in all circles, in which every man or woman strives to be king or queen or lesser dignitary.
To get above some and be reverenced by them, and to propitiate those who are above us, is the
universal struggle in which the chief energies of life are expended. By the accumulation of
wealth, by style of living, by beauty of dress, by display of knowledge or intellect, each
tries to subjugate others; and so aids in weaving that ramified network of restraints by which
society is kept in order. It is not the savage chief only, who, in formidable war-paint, with
scalps at his belt, aims to strike awe into his inferiors; it is not only the belle who, by
elaborate toilet, polished manners, and numerous accomplishments, strives to "make conquests;"
but the scholar, the historian, the philosopher, use their acquirements to the same end. We
are none of us content with quietly unfolding our own individualities to the full in all directions;
but have a restless craving to impress our individualities upon others, and in some way subordinate
them. And this it is which determines the character of our education. Not what knowledge is
of most real worth, is the consideration; but what will bring most applause, honour, respect--what
will most conduce to social position and influence--what will be most imposing. As, throughout
life, not what we are, but what we shall be thought, is the question; so in education, the
question is, not the intrinsic value of knowledge, so much as its extrinsic effects on others.
And this being our dominant idea, direct utility is scarcely more regarded than by the barbarian
when filing his teeth and staining his nails.

       *       *       *       *       *

If there requires further evidence of the rude, undeveloped character of our education, we
have it in the fact that the comparative worths of different kinds of knowledge have been as
yet scarcely even discussed--much less discussed in a methodic way with definite results. Not
only is it that no standard of relative values has yet been agreed upon; but the existence
of any such standard has not been conceived in a clear manner. And not only is it that the
existence of such a standard has not been clearly conceived; but the need for it seems to have
been scarcely even felt. Men read books on this topic, and attend lectures on that; decide
that their children shall be instructed in these branches of knowledge, and shall not be instructed
in those; and all under the guidance of mere custom, or liking, or prejudice; without ever
considering the enormous importance of determining in some rational way what things are really
most worth learning. It is true that in all circles we hear occasional remarks on the importance
of this or the other order of information. But whether the degree of its importance justifies
the expenditure of the time needed to acquire it; and whether there are not things of more
importance to which such time might be better devoted; are queries which, if raised at all,
are disposed of quite summarily, according to personal predilections. It is true also, that
now and then, we hear revived the standing controversy respecting the comparative merits of
classics and mathematics. This controversy, however, is carried on in an empirical manner,
with no reference to an ascertained criterion; and the question at issue is insignificant when
compared with the general question of which it is part. To suppose that deciding whether a
mathematical or a classical education is the best is deciding what is the proper curriculum,
is much the same thing as to suppose that the whole of dietetics lies in ascertaining whether
or not bread is more nutritive than potatoes!

The question which we contend is of such transcendent moment, is, not whether such or such
knowledge is of worth but what is its relative worth? When they have named certain advantages
which a given course of study has secured them, persons are apt to assume that they have justified
themselves; quite forgetting that the adequateness of the advantages is the point to be judged.
There is, perhaps, not a subject to which men devote attention that has not some value. A year
diligently spent in getting up heraldry, would very possibly give a little further insight
into ancient manners and morals. Any one who should learn the distances between all the towns
in England, might, in the course of his life, find one or two of the thousand facts he had
acquired of some slight service when arranging a journey. Gathering together all the small
gossip of a county, profitless occupation as it would be, might yet occasionally help to establish
some useful fact--say, a good example of hereditary transmission. But in these cases, every
one would admit that there was no proportion between the required labour and the probable benefit.
No one would tolerate the proposal to devote some years of a boy's time to getting such information,
at the cost of much more valuable information which he might else have got. And if here the
test of relative value is appealed to and held conclusive, then should it be appealed to and
held conclusive throughout. Had we time to master all subjects we need not be particular. To
quote the old song:--

  Could a man be secure
  That his day would endure
  As of old, for a thousand long years,
  What things might he know!
  What deeds might he do!
  And all without hurry or care.

"But we that have but span-long lives" must ever bear in mind our limited time for acquisition.
And remembering how narrowly this time is limited, not only by the shortness of life, but also
still more by the business of life, we ought to be especially solicitous to employ what time
we have to the greatest advantage. Before devoting years to some subject which fashion or fancy
suggests, it is surely wise to weigh with great care the worth of the results, as compared
with the worth of various alternative results which the same years might bring if otherwise
applied.

