"Well, if that ain't just like you, Huck Finn.  You CAN get up the infant-schooliest ways of
going at a thing.  Why, hain't you ever read any books at all?--Baron Trenck, nor Casanova,
nor Benvenuto Chelleeny, nor Henri IV., nor none of them heroes?  Who ever heard of getting
a prisoner loose in such an old-maidy way as that?  No; the way all the best authorities does
is to saw the bed-leg in two, and leave it just so, and swallow the sawdust, so it can't be
found, and put some dirt and grease around the sawed place so the very keenest seneskal can't
see no sign of it's being sawed, and thinks the bed-leg is perfectly sound. Then, the night
you're ready, fetch the leg a kick, down she goes; slip off your chain, and there you are.
Nothing to do but hitch your rope ladder to the battlements, shin down it, break your leg in
the moat --because a rope ladder is nineteen foot too short, you know--and there's your horses
and your trusty vassles, and they scoop you up and fling you across a saddle, and away you
go to your native Langudoc, or Navarre, or wherever it is. It's gaudy, Huck.  I wish there
was a moat to this cabin. If we get time, the night of the escape, we'll dig one."

I says:

"What do we want of a moat when we're going to snake him out from under the cabin?"

But he never heard me.  He had forgot me and everything else.  He had his chin in his hand,
thinking.  Pretty soon he sighs and shakes his head; then sighs again, and says:

"No, it wouldn't do--there ain't necessity enough for it."

"For what?"  I says.

"Why, to saw Jim's leg off," he says.

"Good land!"  I says; "why, there ain't NO necessity for it.  And what would you want to saw
his leg off for, anyway?"

"Well, some of the best authorities has done it.  They couldn't get the chain off, so they
just cut their hand off and shoved.  And a leg would be better still.  But we got to let that
go.  There ain't necessity enough in this case; and, besides, Jim's a nigger, and wouldn't
understand the reasons for it, and how it's the custom in Europe; so we'll let it go.  But
there's one thing--he can have a rope ladder; we can tear up our sheets and make him a rope
ladder easy enough.  And we can send it to him in a pie; it's mostly done that way.  And I've
et worse pies."

"Why, Tom Sawyer, how you talk," I says; "Jim ain't got no use for a rope ladder."

"He HAS got use for it.  How YOU talk, you better say; you don't know nothing about it.  He's
GOT to have a rope ladder; they all do."

"What in the nation can he DO with it?"

"DO with it?  He can hide it in his bed, can't he?"  That's what they all do; and HE'S got
to, too.  Huck, you don't ever seem to want to do anything that's regular; you want to be starting
something fresh all the time. S'pose he DON'T do nothing with it? ain't it there in his bed,
for a clew, after he's gone? and don't you reckon they'll want clews?  Of course they will.
And you wouldn't leave them any?  That would be a PRETTY howdy-do, WOULDN'T it!  I never heard
of such a thing."

"Well," I says, "if it's in the regulations, and he's got to have it, all right, let him have
it; because I don't wish to go back on no regulations; but there's one thing, Tom Sawyer--if
we go to tearing up our sheets to make Jim a rope ladder, we're going to get into trouble with
Aunt Sally, just as sure as you're born.  Now, the way I look at it, a hickry-bark ladder don't
cost nothing, and don't waste nothing, and is just as good to load up a pie with, and hide
in a straw tick, as any rag ladder you can start; and as for Jim, he ain't had no experience,
and so he don't care what kind of a--"

"Oh, shucks, Huck Finn, if I was as ignorant as you I'd keep still --that's what I'D do.  Who
ever heard of a state prisoner escaping by a hickry-bark ladder?  Why, it's perfectly ridiculous."

"Well, all right, Tom, fix it your own way; but if you'll take my advice, you'll let me borrow
a sheet off of the clothesline."

He said that would do.  And that gave him another idea, and he says:

"Borrow a shirt, too."

"What do we want of a shirt, Tom?"

"Want it for Jim to keep a journal on."

"Journal your granny--JIM can't write."

"S'pose he CAN'T write--he can make marks on the shirt, can't he, if we make him a pen out
of an old pewter spoon or a piece of an old iron barrel-hoop?"

"Why, Tom, we can pull a feather out of a goose and make him a better one; and quicker, too." Regarding their customs, language, and etc. I already have some strange tellings, and
I can tell you are all faithful.

Dear Gewahrst, my dear reader, you are a great scholar. Yet with very ordinary phemonena unknown in
life, and yet in this familiar world dreams can get to be the strangest. Ptolemy Philadelphus
had studied and did not even know students, and that he was in the village high-Jakob called home.
This is known close to the University Kerepes, which is famous when he wrote to his friends of
an incident which had formed in his head of the strangest adventure. The good Ptolemy was shocked when
he met some students who are cheerful and good things about the country subjected to the lust. Fear
would have attacked him, he would have arrived an hour earlier in Kerepes, and would have led
to the accident of the house of the professor of natural history Mosch Terpin! -Hundreds of students
had realized herausstroemend surrounded him from the house, noisly disputing. Yes strange dreams
had come to his head about this confusion, about this Gear.

The Kollegia Mosch Terpin visited namely Kerepes most frequently. He was as I had said, Professor
of Natural History, he explained about rains, thunder, lightning, why the suns shines by day
and the moon by night, and why the grass grows, and so on. Just so each child had to understand
it.

He broke off there, because we heard the breakfast-horn blowing.  So we cleared out for the house.

Along during the morning I borrowed a sheet and a white shirt off of the clothes-line; and
I found an old sack and put them in it, and we went down and got the fox-fire, and put that
in too.  I called it borrowing, because that was what pap always called it; but Tom said it
warn't borrowing, it was stealing.  He said we was representing prisoners; and prisoners don't
care how they get a thing so they get it, and nobody don't blame them for it, either.  It ain't
no crime in a prisoner to steal the thing he needs to get away with, Tom said; it's his right;
and so, as long as we was representing a prisoner, we had a perfect right to steal anything
on this place we had the least use for to get ourselves out of prison with.  He said if we
warn't prisoners it would be a very different thing, and nobody but a mean, ornery person would
steal when he warn't a prisoner.  So we allowed we would steal everything there was that come
handy.  And yet he made a mighty fuss, one day, after that, when I stole a watermelon out of
the nigger-patch and eat it; and he made me go and give the niggers a dime without telling
them what it was for. Tom said that what he meant was, we could steal anything we NEEDED. Well,
I says, I needed the watermelon.  But he said I didn't need it to get out of prison with; there's
where the difference was.  He said if I'd a wanted it to hide a knife in, and smuggle it to
Jim to kill the seneskal with, it would a been all right.  So I let it go at that, though I
couldn't see no advantage in my representing a prisoner if I got to set down and chaw over
a lot of gold-leaf distinctions like that every time I see a chance to hog a watermelon.

