As I have announced previously, I shall endeavor to record in this chapter some recollections
of events personal to the Emperor which occurred during the journey between the frontiers of
France and Prussia. How sad a contrast results, alas! as we attempt to compare our journey
to Moscow with that of our return.  One must have seen Napoleon at Dresden, surrounded by a
court of princes and of kings, to form an idea of the highest point which human greatness can
reach.  There more than ever elsewhere the Emperor was affable to all; fortune smiled upon
him, and none of those who enjoyed with us the spectacle of his glory could even conceive the
thought that fortune could soon prove unfaithful to him and in so striking a manner.  I remember,
among other particulars of our stay at Dresden, a speech I heard the Emperor make to Marshal
Berthier, whom he had summoned at a very early hour.  When the marshal arrived, Napoleon had
not yet risen, but I received orders to bring him in at once; so that while dressing the Emperor,
I heard between him and his major-general a conversation of which I wish I could remember the
whole, but at least I am sure of repeating correctly one thought which struck me. In Dutch. Folk songs (Uhland in Pfeiffer's Germania V.) brings
the interest Bauer (probably for the use of approved land) his liege lord a load of wood, while the
woman "the cool May."

How will the victory of Gideon over the Midianites (Judges 6, 37) to the dew ties, on the Gideons
been spreading fur is so abundant that one of the morning a cup of water from it to can fill, so also
in the German local stories from the belief in the Wunderkräftigkeit the Maienthaues, and from the
custom, when Maigerichte to appear armed, the Walburgiszins Man for man to be paid as community,
taken often repetitive tradition that on that same interest days the political independence of the
landscape by a lucky Weapons strike had been won. The vice Maifahrt is stamped on the war driving.
The Friesian and the Swiss legend meets here. The sub-Waldner, the "Walperkühe" (Grimm, RA. 822),
they discounted the tyrant, the reason, the governors of Sarnen and distribute Rozberg and break their
strongholds, and the Ditmar's their Freedom of the dating of Interest grain they no longer want
to deliver to the castle of the Walburgsaue. The sub-Waldner Sage is well known unnoticed but still following
Ditmar sized, which is in Neocorus Chronicle, issue of Dahlmann. The oldest building in the Ditmar
and festete country's Castle of the Counts Bocklenburg was in the Wolberaue located.


On the 23d of June we were on the banks of the Niemen, that river already become so famous
by the interview between the two Emperors, under circumstances very different from those in
which they now found themselves.

The passage of the army began in the evening, and lasted for forty-eight hours, during which
time the Emperor was almost constantly on horseback, so well he knew that his presence expedited
matters.  Then we continued our journey to Wilna, the capital of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania,
and on the 27th arrived in front of this town, occupied by the Russians; and it may truly be
said that there, and there alone, military operations began, for up to this time the Emperor
had traveled as he would have done in the departments of the interior of France.  The Russians,
being attacked, were beaten and fell back, so that two days after we entered Wilna, a town
of considerable size, which seemed to me to contain about thirty thousand inhabitants.  I was
struck with the incredible number of convents and churches which are there.  At Wilna the Emperor
was much gratified by the demand of five or six hundred students that they should be formed
into a regiment.  It is needless to say that such solicitations were always eagerly granted
by his Majesty.

We rested for some time at Wilna; the Emperor thence followed the movement of his armies, and
occupied himself also with organizing the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, of which this town, as
is well known, is the capital.  As the Emperor was often on horseback, I had sufficient leisure
to acquaint myself thoroughly with the town and its environs.  The Lithuanians were in a state
of enthusiasm impossible to describe; and although I have seen during my life many fetes, I
shall never forget the joyous excitement of the whole population when the grand national fete
of the regeneration of Poland was celebrated, which owing either to a singular coincidence,
or the calculation of the Emperor, was appointed for the 14th of July.  The Poles were still
uncertain as to the ultimate fate which the Emperor reserved for their country; but a future
bright with hope shone before their eyes, until these visions were rudely dispelled by the
Emperor's reply to the deputation from the Polish confederation established at Warsaw.  This
numerous deputation, with a count palatine at its head, demanded the integral re-establishment
of the ancient kingdom of Poland.  This was the Emperor's reply:--

"Messieurs, deputies of the Confederation of Poland, I have heard with interest what you have
just said.  Were I a Pole, I should think and act as you have done, and I should have voted
like you in the assembly at Warsaw; for love of country is the first virtue of civilized man.

"In my position I have many opposing interests to reconcile, and many duties to fulfill.  If
I had reigned at the time of the first, second, or third division of Poland, I would have armed
all my people to sustain you.  As soon as victory permitted me to restore your ancient laws
to your capital and to a part of your provinces, I have done so readily, without, however,
prolonging a war which would have shed the blood of my subjects.

"I love your nation.  For sixteen years I have seen your soldiers by my side on the fields
of Italy as on those of Spain.

"I applaud all that you have done; I authorize the efforts you wish to make; and all that depends
on me to carry out your resolutions shall be done.

"If your efforts are unanimous, you may indulge the hope of forcing your enemies to recognize
your rights.  But in these countries, so distant and so extensive, any hope of success can
be founded only on the unanimous efforts of the population which occupies them.

"I have maintained the same position since my first appearance in Poland. I should add here
that I have guaranteed to the Emperor of Austria the integrity of his States, and I could authorize
no movement tending to disturb him in the peaceful possession of what remains to him of the
Polish provinces.  Let Lithuania, Samogitia, Witepsk, Polotsk, Mohilow, Wolhynia, Ukraine,
and Podolia be animated by the same spirit I have seen in great Poland, and Providence will
crown with success the holiness of your cause; it will recompense this devotion to your native
country which has made you such an object of interest, and has obtained for you the right to
my esteem and protection, on which you may rely under all circumstances."

I have thought it best to give here the entire reply of the Emperor to the deputies of the
Polish confederation, as I was a witness of the effect it produced at Wilna.  A few Poles with
whom I was associated spoke to me of it with sorrow; but their consternation was not loudly
expressed, and the air did not the less resound with cries of "Vive l'Empereur!"  each time
the Emperor showed himself in public, which is to say almost every day.

During our stay at Wilna some hopes were entertained that a new peace was about to be concluded,
as an envoy had arrived from the Emperor Alexander. Bolland. 518b. 519a. A.
SS. II, pg. 307. 308.

From early church figures Walburgis are the following. In the nave of the Heidenheimer Monastery
church which was destroyed during the Reformation (secta more Lutheranae quae, omnia sacra
polluit says Rader 3, 45) is opposite the choir to a 2-1/2 high F. grave stone on Walburg which
is carved in full figure, holding in his right hand a staff, on the vortex of a small cross,
sits in his left a book at the feet of a shield. This columnar structure decorated with beads
Fries is one of the works of the Romanesque period (Bavaria 3, 863). On an opposite similar grave
stone is carved Wunnibald; underneath is the inscription: Sepulcrum stae Walburgis 1484th An
illustration of it appeared in Brueckner in Ansbach and the annual reports of the historian.
Association for Middle Franconia 1843rd St. Wilibald with his whole family is depicted on a carpet,
which was originally Eichstadt kept in the church and now in Munich's National Museum is .-- On the
following Bites appear as the holy abbess with the staff, the Oelfläschlein in his hand:

Fons Olei Walpurg. a Jacobo Gretser, SJ Ingolst. 1629 .-- P. Emil de Novara, capuccino. Breve ristretto
della Sta. principessa Walpurga. Oak. 1722 .-- Matt. Rader, Bavaria sancta. Munich 1704 (repeating
the tomb) .-- P. Goudin, grace inexhaustible fountain of Sts. Walburgis.

Regensb. 1708th

Special Weihkirchen and chapels have the hl. Walburg in the realm of the Bavarians, Alemanni, Franks,
Burgundians, Lower Saxony and Friesen, as far as the same treated here Material is completed,
is of them in detail also be discussed here.

Just the same Note also the conserved on multiple locations and revered relics Walburg to apply.

On the Bavarian Lech field lies in the town hall of Kaufering a very old chapel Walburg, Standing on
its own hill, shaded by linden trees, fenced by a wall. Admission
leads down three steps, the wall is black, the interior dark. The
planting season is the Pestkarren, the wheels are shod with felt,
at the time of the plague corpses piled to run silently.

It was known in the army that the Russians had done an immense amount of work at Drissa, where
they had constructed an enormous intrenched camp; and the number of troops collected there,
the considerable sums expended in the works, all gave reason to believe that the Russian army
would await the French at this point; and this belief was all the more reasonable since the
Emperor Alexander, in his numerous proclamations disseminated through the army, and several
of which fell into our hands, boasted of conquering the French at Drissa, where (said these
proclamations) we should find our grave.  It was otherwise ordained by destiny; for the Russians,
constantly falling back towards the heart of Russia, abandoned this famous camp of Drissa on
the approach of the Emperor: I heard it said by many general officers that a great battle would
have been at that time a salutary event for the French army, in which discontent was beginning
to increase, first, for want of enemies to fight, and second; because privations of every kind
became each day more unendurable.  Whole divisions lived, so to speak, by pillage.  The soldiers
devastated the dwellings and cottages found at rare intervals in the country; and, in spite
of the severe orders of the Emperor against marauding and pillaging, these orders could not
be executed, for the officers themselves lived for the most part on the booty which the soldiers
obtained and shared with them.

The Emperor affected before his soldiers a serenity which he was far from feeling; and from
a few detached words which I heard him pronounce in this grave situation, I am authorized to
believe that the Emperor desired a battle so ardently, only in the hope that the Emperor Alexander
would make him new overtures leading to peace.  I think that he would then have accepted it
after the first victory; but he would never have consented to retrace his steps after such
immense preparations without having waged one of those great battles which furnish sufficient
glory for a campaign; at least, that is what I heard him say repeatedly.  The Emperor also
often spoke of the enemies he had to combat with an affected disdain which he did not really
feel; his object being to cheer the officers and soldiers, many of whom made no concealment
of their discouragement.

Before leaving Wilna, the Emperor established there a kind of central government, at the head
of which he had placed the Duke of Bassano, with the object of having an intermediate point
between France and the line of operations he intended to carry on in the interior of Russia.
Disappointed, as I have said, by the abandonment of the camp of Drissa by the Russian army,
he marched rapidly towards Witepsk, where the greater part of the French forces were then collected:
but here the ire of the Emperor was again aroused by a new retreat of the Russians; for the
encounters of Ostrovno and Mohilev, although important, could not be considered as the kind
of battle the Emperor so ardently desired.  On entering Witepsk, the Emperor learned that the
Emperor Alexander, who a few days before had his headquarters there, and also the Grand Duke
Constantine, had quitted the army, and returned to St. Petersburg.

At this period, that is to say, on our arrival at Witepsk, the report was spread abroad that
the Emperor would content himself with taking position there, and organizing means of subsistence
for his army, and that he would postpone till the next year the execution of his vast designs
on Russia.  I could not undertake to say what his inmost thoughts were on this subject; but
what I can certify is that, being in a room adjoining his, I one day heard him say to the King
of Naples, that the first campaign of Russia was ended, and that he would be the following
year at Moscow, the next at St. Petersburg, and that the Russian war was a three years' campaign.
Had it pleased Providence that his Majesty had executed this plan, which he outlined to the
King of Naples so earnestly, so many of the brave would not have laid down their lives a few
months after in the frightful retreat, the horrors of which I shall hereafter describe.

During our stay at Witepsk, the heat was so excessive that the Emperor was much exhausted,
and complained of it incessantly; and I have never seen him under any circumstances so oppressed
by the weight of his clothing.  In his room he rarely wore his coat, and frequently threw himself
on his bed to rest.  This is a fact which many persons can attest as well as I; for he often
received his general officers thus, though it had been his custom never to appear before them
without the uniform which he habitually wore.  Nevertheless, the influence which the heat had
on his physical condition had not affected his great soul; and his genius ever on the alert
embraced every branch of the administration.  But it was easily seen by those whose positions
enabled them best to know his character that the source of his greatest suffering at Witepsk
was the uncertainty whether he should remain in Poland, or should advance without delay into
the heart of Russia.  While he was hesitating between these two decisions he was nearly always
sad and taciturn.

