A very handsome point lace set is here illustrated, and may be easily followed by an expert
lace-maker; but it will be wiser for the novice to obtain a pattern or design of the shape
and size desired, from a professional lace-maker. Point de Grecque, point de Bruxelles, point
de Venise, Sorrento bars, and rosettes and rings are all employed in carrying out this design.
As elsewhere mentioned, any fine stitch preferred may be used for filling-in purposes when
those suggested or marked out upon a design are not admired.

No. 26.

DESIGN FOR TABLE SCARF IN BATTENBURG LACE.

The scarf-end from which this design was copied is about ten inches deep, and it is about fourteen
or fifteen inches wide. It will be seen from these dimensions, that it is impossible to produce
a full-size design of it on these pages, but one of any size desired may be obtained at any
lace-makers; or, a clever student of lace-making may enlarge the design to suit her own requirements.
According to the size of the scarf-end, wide or narrow braid must be selected, with thread
to correspond. The stitches used in filling in are point de fillet, point de Bruxelles and
point d'Angleterre, and Raleigh, Sorrento and d'Alençon bars, and rosettes and "spiders."

No. 27.

APPLE DESIGN FOR A CORNER IN BATTENBURG LACE.

This design is for the corner of a scarf, spread, tidy or pillow-sham and is very popular,
as it is effective though simply made. The fine stitches are point de Bruxelles, while the
others are Raleigh, Sorrento and point Grecque bars. Plain or fancy braid, or a combination
of both may be used in this design with a charming effect.

No. 28.

ROMAN PUNCH-GLASS DOILY IN POINT LACE.

Doilies of this description are generally made about four inches square. The engraving opposite
pictures the doily mentioned as somewhat smaller, but the design is sufficiently large to enable
the student to make her doilies as large as she desires them to be, as it is easy to follow.
The corner spaces are filled in with twisted bars and rings worked at the same time; but rosettes
or spiders may be worked in place of the rings if preferred. The corner spaces are filled in
in point Brabançon, and for those at each side point de Bruxelles is used. The doily is edged
with a fine picot-braid that finishes it daintily, and very sheer linen lawn is used for the
center.

No. 29.

MODERN RUSSIAN LACE.

The design illustrated may be followed in Battenburg braid or plain lace tape, and any of the
fancy stitches mentioned and described among the rosettes, bars and picots may be employed
for filling-in purposes. Cream white or unbleached braids or tapes are prettier for Russian
lace than pure white. Russian lace is a very durable as well as effective trimming for household
draperies, and also for gowns of wash fabrics or those of cotton fabrics which will not need
renovating.

No. 30.

RUSSIAN LACE.

This engraving represents a specimen of genuine Russian lace made of fine braid, and wrought
with bars similar to Raleigh bars, except that they have no picots. The Russians have always
been noted for their exquisite needle-work, but as a nation they have never had any established
lace manufactory. The workers of the small amount of lace produced are scattered about at their
own houses, and many of them are poor ladies of gentle birth. Most of the laces, however, are
made by the peasantry, who bring them to St. Petersburg where sale for them is found.

No. 31.

BOW-KNOT DESIGN FOR MODERN LACE.

This fashionable design may be developed in various widths and braids as an insertion, or as
an appliqué on lawn. The ground-work may be formed of Raleigh bars, or of twisted bars made
like the net-work for Raleigh bars. The loops of the bows may be filled in with point de Bruxelles
or any fine stitch preferred. The design is pretty for bordering table scarfs, tidies, valances
and curtains when heavy braids are selected. The finer braids render the design appropriate
for handkerchiefs and dainty trimming laces.

No. 32.

PRINCESS LACE DOILY DESIGN.

The design here illustrated may be enlarged or simplified to please individual taste, and it
may be made of Honiton braid as well as point. The connecting stitches may be point de Bruxelles,
Raleigh and Sorrento bars, "spiders" or any of the fine stitches described and illustrated
in the department devoted to stitches. A dainty picot braid follows the outer edge of the doily.
This design, enlarged sufficiently, would form an elegant pattern for a lace handkerchief.

No. 33.

ALTAR LACE (BATTENBURG).

This very elegant specimen of altar lace is, in reality, about nine or ten inches deep; but,
for want of space the engraving represents it as only about half as wide. The design, however,
is perfect in detail, and the illustration fully displays its effectiveness, and discloses
the variety of connecting and filling-in stitches used. A delicate Battenburg braid is chosen
for the foundation, and in addition to regular lace stitches, those from drawn work are here
and there interspersed. The cross is filled in in point de Venise, (or side stitch as it is
sometimes called), and the same stitch is seen in the central design at each side of the cross.
Drawn-work effects are seen also in these central figures and along the borders. Sorrento bars
are here made and knotted at the center like drawn strands, or are connected by rosettes or
"spiders" made in drawn-work style. At the center of the cross is a large drawn-work wheel,
while small Maltese crosses and half-crosses are made elsewhere in the work by the drawn-work
method, Sorrento bars taking the place of the usual strands. The central section of the border
at the right of the cross is done in point de Bruxelles which is afterward button-holed as
in bar-work, and a button-hole picot edge follows the lower outlines of the pattern. Raleigh
bars with picots form the connecting ground-work throughout the work. This beautiful specimen
shows two distinct methods of filling in the sections between the crosses. Either may be used
alone, or the two may be used alternately with the crosses.

No. 34.

BATTENBURG OR POINT LACE COLLAR AND CUFF.

These engravings represent a very graceful design for a lace collar and cuffs. As suggested
in the title, the set may be made of point or Battenburg braid. The leaf-points are all filled
in with d'Alençon bars in the twisted stitch, while the centers are completed with rosettes
or small open "spiders," and the latter are distributed elsewhere as will be seen by inspecting
the engraving. Point de Grecque is also introduced into some of the spaces, and Raleigh bars
are used for the ground-work. Any of the stitches previously described may be used in making
such a collar if those mentioned are not admired; and the addition of buttons or rings will
improve the work greatly.

No. 35.

FLOUNCE IN BATTENBURG LACE.

A very elegant flounce of Battenburg lace may be made after the design represented on the opposite
page. The picture shows the flounce just one-half its actual width; but even this width would
be very handsome as a band for the bottom of a dress. By a close inspection of the stitches
seen and a reference to these illustrated in the department devoted to stitches, the various
kinds here used may be easily identified. They consist of point de Venise, point de Bruxelles,
Sorrento and d'Alençon bars and "spiders." A fine picot braid edges each side of the flounce.
The design can be obtained in any width desired from a reliable lace-maker.

No. 36.

BUTTERFLY DESIGN FOR POINT LACE.

