It is then clear, I think, from what has been said, that nonconformity to the world is not
the aim, but one of the incidents of Christian life. The Christian’s aim is distinctly stated
here to be the proving of the will of God—that which is good, acceptable and perfect. Yet nonconformity
to the world will develop itself as a necessary incident of Christian living. Being transformed
by the renewing of the mind, the outward life will necessarily be transformed also, and will
cease to be conformed to the world. The soul which desires that which is good, acceptable,
perfect, can no longer find affinity with that which is bad, imperfect, and displeasing to
God. The differences are not incidental, they are generic. The Christian and the world belong
to different orders; are regulated by different laws. The Christian is, as it were, grafted
upon the new stock, and can no more bear the fruit of his old sinful life, than the ingrafted
branch can bear its former fruit. Old things have passed away. All things have become new.
He is a new creature in Christ Jesus. These differences have not to be marked by finely drawn
lines of casuistry. There are indeed points at which the worldly and the Christian life run
for a little way parallel. Points where neither party can very well act differently from the
other. But for all that, the divergence is wide enough at many other points to leave no doubt.
I am speaking now of true Christians, thoroughly renewed in the spirit of their mind; courageous,
unflinching, consistent Christians: not of those whifflers and compromisers who call themselves
Christians, and who try to trim between God and the world, so as to relinquish no advantages
on the side of either. A man cannot live many hours by the rule of Christ without coming into
direct issue with the world. And now, as to these points of difference, they are, of course,
too numerous to be dealt with in detail. And I can, therefore, only call your attention to
one or two classes of them.

1st: On which I need not dwell, is the class of worldly sins. Of course the transformed man
will not be conformed to the world in these. Not that a Christian never errs, by any means,
but that the general current of his life will set in the direction of pleasing God, and away
from those things which are plainly contrary to his will.

2d. A marked difference develops itself in the region of the motives, the tempers, the dispositions,
and the principles of action. Sometimes it is difficult to pronounce upon these differences
with certainty, yet some of them are easily recognizable. Two men will often do precisely the
same thing from different motives. A Christian and a worldly man, for example, are foully abused
by a profane ruffian. Both receive the abuse in silence, and go their way without bestowing
any attention upon him. But the two are commonly actuated by very different impulses. The one
turns away with anger and loathing, and is silent because it is beneath his dignity to reply,
or to notice the aggressor. The other, though tempted to anger, remembers the example of him
whom he serves. Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again and leaves the railer, striving
to pity his ignorance, and to forget his insult. Pride accomplishes, outwardly, in the one
case, what Christian humility does in the other. So in cases of great affliction, it is sometimes
hard to decide, from outward indications, whether divine grace or native force of will is the
stronger. The worldly man will exhibit equal composure with the Christian; will seem, for the
time, to accept the visitation with no less equanimity than the other. But those who are much
with men under such circumstances, and come perhaps as close to their hearts as it is possible
for man to do, recognize a very decided difference. They know that the composure which springs
from stoicism, iron nerve, indomitable will, is a different thing from that which is born of
submission and resignation to the will of God. That the one but crowds the sharp grief deeper
into the heart, and shuts up the fountain of healing tears, and makes the man hard and sullen
and defiant, and chills his sympathies, and disposes him to solitary brooding, and after all,
gives way at last, and leaves him a broken reed, while the other finds in the breach which
God made in his cherished plans, an opening through which heaven smiles on him, rises on the
ruins of his wrecked hopes to a purer and more unselfish life, draws sweetness out of his sorrow,
and wins a firmer trust in God, and a deeper and more comprehensive sympathy for his sorrowing
brethren everywhere. These differences are endless. They cover every variety of experience.
The world talks of the dignity of man, asserts his knowledge and his unimpaired judgment. The
Christian distrusts his deceitful heart and fallen nature, and becomes a little child that
he may know the truth. The world walks by sight and sneers at faith. Faith is the Christian’s
atmosphere, out of which he cannot breathe freely. The world talks of law, the Christian of
providence. The world knows God, either vaguely, as a deity to be feared for his power, and
but dimly apprehended by man, or as a mere aggregate of laws divorced from any real, apprehensible
personality. The Christian communes and walks with him daily as a tender, loving, and wise father.

But I hasten to a third class of differences, with which I shall deal more at length: I mean
those which appear in the Christian’s conduct respecting those things which he uses in common
with the world. Under this head falls that large class of actions, which, in themselves considered,
have no moral value, but acquire one from the end they are made to serve, the manner in which
they are pursued, or the motive in which they originate. On these arise the most perplexing
of all moral questions, the most subtle cases of conscience, and too often, I grieve to say,
the most acrimonious discussions. Under this head are included most of those vexed questions
as to amusements, dress, meat and drink, and the like. And this text, I am sorry to say, has
been made the basis for inculcating some most false and pernicious doctrines concerning these
things.

Now it seems to me that very many of the difficulties which arise on these subjects are quite
unnecessary, and would be in great part destroyed by resting upon the simple, unequivocal testimony
of the Bible. I do not think that God’s Word is at all wanting in explicitness on these points.
Here is this text for instance. Nothing can be plainer. It tells us our first great duty is
to submit our wills to God’s will; to commit ourselves to his guidance without reserve, a living
sacrifice; to be transformed; and that when this shall have been done, we shall know what the
will of God is; we shall practically prove what is good and acceptable and perfect, and, as
a matter of course, shall not be conformed to the sinful principles and practices of the world.
Now it follows from this that whatever is good and acceptable and perfect, not opposed to the
new principle of life in us, is ours, given us by God to use and enjoy; and that in the use
and enjoyment of it within the limits he prescribes, we are not conformed to the world in any
bad sense. I say this, well aware that every one of these things contains capabilities for
abuse, and that the world does most sadly abuse them; and this brings me directly to my point
that the difference between Christians and the world as respects these things is to be developed
in the proper use and regulation by Christians of what the world abuses. Christians are not
to be driven from every point which the world sees fit to occupy by the hue and cry of nonconformity.
They are to remember that in these things there is a duty to be done as well as a pleasure
to be enjoyed, and that they are to show their nonconformity, not by abandoning, but by refusing
to conform to the world’s excesses, and by insisting on the restraining principles of God’s
Word. Let us here hold closely by the opening thought of our discussion, that conformity to
the world in itself is no sin, and nonconformity in itself no virtue. Conformity to the world
is sinful when the world’s practice is sinful and not otherwise.

Now this is a very plain rule. It is Christ’s rule. Paul takes it directly from Christ. But
I am aware that another question enters here, namely, that of expediency. There may be private
considerations tending to make the relinquishment of a harmless thing expedient for you or
for me. There may be considerations growing out of your relations to others which may render
use inexpedient. In such cases, expediency, of course, assumes to you the obligation of law.
But as regards these cases no man can decide for you. The Bible throws them on your own conscience.
Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. Expediency is a matter for individuals. No
law can be laid down for it. The two things necessarily exclude each other. If you lay it down
that such a course is expedient for every one, you remove the matter at once from the region
of expediency, and put it on the ground of law; and this course no man nor body of men is ever
justified in pursuing. Such a step trenches on the sacred enclosure of the individual moral
sense, a holy of holies, into which man and his Maker alone enter. At the same time, abundant
light will be given to every humble, faithful child of Christ, to settle these questions of
expediency. When love to God is the moving principle of a man’s life, it develops in him an
insight which guides him unerringly through questions where casuistry would become hopelessly
entangled. You may see the same truth illustrated in your own homes. See that loving, obedient
child, whose highest delight is to perform your behest and anticipate your wishes. How very
few errors that child commits, even in cases where you have laid down no rule. It reaches the
knowledge of your wishes through a kind of instinct as reliable as it is undefinable. Surely
faith ought to teach us to expect a clew through such mazes from a Father who has promised
that he will direct the paths of those who acknowledge him.

And here, I insist, whether the question be one of law or of expediency, has been a grave error
of the church in not trusting enough to this inward principle of life in the soul, to this
insight of love, to regulate the outward developments of the life, and to prevent the obliteration
of the lines between the church and the world. She has busied herself too much with details,
and not enough with that which lies back of them; too much with the circumference and not enough
with the centre. Christ teaches us that if the fountain be pure, the streams must be pure.
But the church, in her unconscious distrust of the purifying power of the fountain, has thrown
into the streams such abundance of mint, anise, and cummin, that the taste of the original
water is sometimes sadly impaired. Too often, while she has been busy with the streams, the
fountain head has been gathering unsuspected poison. While I recognize the church’s duty to
watch carefully over Christ’s flock, to counsel, rebuke, restrain, I think that she has encouraged,
in many cases, by her want of faith in the power of the relation between Christ and the believer,
an artificial religious life, a factitious conscience, a life wanting the freedom and naturalness
of movement properly engendered by the gospel. I think she should have insisted more on having
this clearly defined and constantly maintained, more on a full assurance, and a lively faith,
and an ever burning love, and less on details which these would have regulated of themselves.
I believe that if she had done this, and moreover had preached the word literally and boldly
to the people, had told the people their privilege to use God’s gifts, and pointed them to
the principle of love to God as competent to regulate use, and not twisted its declarations
into warrants for the abridgment of Christian liberty,—there would be in the church to-day
more simple, strong, manly, intelligent piety, and far less conformity to the world. This distinction
between safe and unsafe truths is a Romish and not a Protestant idea; and the temporary gain
secured by acting upon it is more than counterbalanced by the final pernicious result.

It is far safer for me and for you that I preach this truth to you boldly and plainly; and
I have a special object in bringing it to your notice now, at this solemn season when you are
reviewing the past, and making a new consecration of yourselves to the service of Christ.

Here, as you renew your original vow to come out from the world, it is well that you do this
with no vague idea of what you promise. What I shall now say applies to most if not all of
you, but especially to the younger members of the church. As you enter upon a season of special
religious activity, you also enter upon a season which society is wont to devote largely to
pleasure. Ere another communion season shall have come round, the season for evening entertainments
and festal gatherings, will be at its height. From the nature of circumstances you will be
called upon to participate in these more or less; and it is at these points that the temptation
to conformity to the world will be most likely to assail you.

Most of you are probably aware of the ground I have recently taken before the public on the
subject of amusements; a position which has excited considerable comment, and some censure.
I do not see why it should. There is nothing novel in my views on this subject. I have merely
stated the gospel principle, the principle which Christ propounded, and by which he lived—that
the proper and only way to preserve our pleasures or anything else from abuse, is to put Christian
leaven into them. That our duty in such matters, is not to give them over bodily to the devil
and to the world, to be abused and perverted at their pleasure; but to save them from such
perversion, and make them legitimate instruments of Christian joy and growth, by using them
in the name and under the law of Christ. If these things are evil, we have no right to have
anything to do with them. If they are, though not evil in themselves, so under the dominion
of evil, and so dependent upon evil for support, as the theatre, for example, is, that Christian
participation cannot separate them from their abuses, we ought to abandon them. But as to the
general principle, that it is abuse and not proper use which Christ condemns, and that many
of the things which the devil has usurped, are as much yours as his, there can be no doubt.
I have not one word to modify or retract of what I have written on this subject. Challenged,
I would reiterate it word for word, if I knew I should go from this pulpit to my grave. And
I dare any Christian to draw from what I have written, or from what I have said to-day, license
for improper conformity to the world. If you do so, depend on it, you and not I will be condemned.
And I rejoice especially to-day, in having assumed this position; because I have never had
so good ground from which to counsel you as to your intercourse with the world of pleasure.
If I were to put this matter to you on the ground of men’s rules and decrees, if I were to
try and show you, by subtle hair-splitting, that this thing is one degree more capable of abuse
than that thing; and that, therefore, you may use that, and must abandon this, I should expose
myself to merciless logic, and to just ridicule. I leave this ground entirely. I put myself
on God’s word, and say to you this morning, be not conformed to this world. I say to you as
the first, the indispensable requisite for deciding in what conformity consists, see that your
relations to Christ are properly adjusted. Present yourselves living sacrifices to him. Be
transformed by the renewing of your mind. Submit your will to the will of God without reserve.
Then shall you be able to prove what is his will, what is good and acceptable and perfect.
Then shall your judgment be so enlightened as to enable you to render a reasoning, a reasonable,
a thoughtful and discriminating service. This is the first thing.

For this I pray for you. For this I am anxious for you, that you be vitally united to Christ;
that you have a living, active faith in him; a clear witness of your acceptance with him, an
ever burning love for him. If you have these, I know that the details of your lives, whether
they concern your pleasures, or your business, or your studies, will take care of themselves.
But remember this prerequisite. Do not go away saying, “my pastor says I may lawfully indulge
in this or that, and I need give myself no further trouble about it.” I say to you no such
thing. I say that you want your whole nature renewed by the indwelling of Christ, and that
without this you are not safe in the world one moment. That without this you are in continual
danger of conformity to the world. Without this you are in no condition to decide in what you
may engage, or how far you may engage in it without abuse. Withal, you will need to trouble
yourself about these matters; to study God’s law; to watch closely your own heart and life;
to avoid needless temptation; to exercise strong resolution when pleasure beckons you beyond
the bounds erected by Christian duty. I bid you rejoice in your youth. I bid you use those
amusements which are innocent in themselves, freely and with gratitude to God, but to beware
of their abuse. I can safely tell you some things which God’s word will teach you as to this
matter. It will tell you that where you make pleasure the end and rule of your life, and duty
the exception, you are guilty of abuse. It will tell you that when pleasure saps the fountains
of your health, when it steals away your hours of sleep, and tempts you to excessive indulgence
of appetite at an hour which nature prescribes for the rest and recuperation of your organs,
when it leads you to expose yourself to sickness by inadequate clothing—it is a gross abuse
for which God will hold you accountable. It will tell you that when any description of pleasure
trenches on the limits of modesty, it is an abuse; that the public embracing of young men and
women in the vile dances of the day, is an offense against decency, an abomination against
which manly nobleness and maidenly delicacy ought to cry out with all their power. It will
tell you that when pleasure of any kind interferes with your covenant obligations to the church,
and keeps you from the ordinances of God’s house, it is an abuse; a conformity to the world,
against which God warns you in this text.

Come then and give yourselves to Christ, not repelled by any false, ascetic views of his religion,
but believing, as his word entitles you to believe, that it is the promoter of innocent joy,
of healthy and grateful recreation, of the highest and purest pleasures. Come, and he shall
show you by his own life how to be in the world, yet not of it. How to live in strictest conformity
to duty, and yet be free indeed, and exhibit to the world a broad, noble, generous Christian
life—a life in the spirit and not in the letter. He shall teach you to live by the insight
of love, and not by the prescriptions of a bare scheme of duty. Oh, that you may grow to the
stature of perfect men and women in Christ; that you may be living examples of a reasoning
service, models of a piety, enthusiastic yet judicious; all aglow with the love of Christ carried
into every detail of your lives, into your pleasures, your conversation, your business; bringing
everything, great and small, into conformity with the law of Christ, and making the whole life
move sweetly and harmoniously round him. You will not then be a worldly church. You will not
then be stumbling blocks to the kingdom of Christ.

THE CHURCH AND THE YOUNG MAN.

         A Sermon Delivered on Sabbath Morning, November 4, 1866,

                 In The First Presbyterian Church, Troy,

         At The Request of The Young Men’s Christian Association.

    2 Sam. xviii, 5. Notwithstanding the astounding character of Absalom’s rebellion;
though the mind of the sovereign and father of his people is torn with
indignation at this outrage upon his throne and person, and is busy with
plans for the security of his kingdom and the repulse of the invader;
though David is stunned and bewildered at this high handed display of
ingratitude and rebellion on the part of his favorite child, the father
finds place to assert itself amid the cares of the sovereign, and to
breathe a word of caution to his generals respecting the person of his
dearly loved boy.

In accordance with the request of the Young Men’s National Christian Convention to the churches,
I propose to devote this service to a discussion of their relations to the church. I take this
text as setting forth a similar charge given by our Lord and King Christ to his militant church,
to deal gently with the young man. I therefore invite your attention to the following points
respecting the relations of young men to the church:

I. The church must deal with them. II. The church ought to deal with them. III. How the church
should deal with them.

I. The church must deal with young men.

Absalom, however foolish and wicked his revolt, however strange his rebellion against his royal
father, notwithstanding his youth and inexperience, was a stubborn fact, with which the leaders
and counselors and armies of the kingdom found themselves obliged to deal. Otherwise David
would have been dethroned and his authority violently usurped. If not dealt with so as to suppress
him, he must be dealt with in the more unpleasant capacity of a suppressor and tyrant.

Young men are a fact in society; and as such cannot be without relations to the church. Not
only so, they are an important fact; a prominent fact; a potent fact. They are a force in the
business, the social, the political, the governmental relations of the community. If they have
not wisdom, they have strength and energy. If they have not caution, they have enterprise.
If they have not experience, they have tact, intelligence and knowledge. If they refuse to
follow old rules, they succeed ofttimes in the use of their own methods. Society concedes much
to them, entrusts them with serious responsibilities, seeks them for positions of power and
influence, is powerfully swayed in whatever direction they choose, as a body, to throw themselves,
applauds and welcomes their success.

The relations of such a body to the church of Christ must be important. This mass of manly
strength, energy, independence, intelligence and enterprise must, if set on fire with Christian
ardor and enlisted on her behalf, greatly conduce to her prosperity; while it cannot but be
a serious hindrance to her success if this element is neutral, or arrayed against her. If neutral,
indeed, it is against her. If she have not the young men incorporated with her membership,
at work in her sabbath schools, in regular attendance on her ordinances, woven into her social
relations, throwing their strength and generosity and enthusiasm into her benevolent enterprises,
contributing their fresh thought to her assemblies, working, through the closer intimacies
which mark their age, to increase her numbers, she will have to move under the drag applied
by their indifference, resist their fascinations exerted in drawing others away from her standard,
contend sharply against the skepticism to which youth is naturally prone, and if they are won
at last, win them when the freshness of youth is gone, and by a double expenditure of power.
The church must deal with them as the friends or as the enemies of religion; must appropriate
or resist their power. They come to her in the flush of their manly strength, like the Roman
envoys to Carthage, holding in their robes peace and war, and offering the church her choice.

II. The church ought to deal with them.

1. In simple consistency with her own principles. Not only to touch them where she must, but
where she can. Not to regard them as aside from her peculiar work, but as constituting a peculiarly
important and interesting part of her work. She professes to labor for the salvation of men,
where can she find excuse for failing to provide special appliances if need be, for the salvation
of young men? She professes to be an educator as well as an evangelizer. Here is material in
its most inviting shape, and at the stage best adapted for her moulding. She professes to provide
for the extension of her doctrine and spirit. Can she, with any show of reason, neglect the
force furnished her in this mass of youthful energy and enthusiasm. She professes to rescue
men from danger. Does she see any danger more imminent than those which menace young men, any
temptations more seductive, any ruin more pitiable? Does she see any more susceptible of these
influences than youth with their high spirits, superfluous energy and glowing passion? Does
she see any victims which appeal more powerfully to her compassion than these sons and brothers
in whose success and virtue are bound up the hopes and affections of thousands of parents,
every one of whom cries to the world and to the church, “deal gently for my sake with the young
man?”

2. But the church ought to deal with them, in the absence of other appliances to reach them.
The church has few enough, far too few; but there are fewer elsewhere. Take business. What
does it furnish? It deals with the young man. Not always gently either. It deals with his youthful
strength; with his clear and active brain; with his enterprise and energy. It uses these to
build up trade and accumulate wealth. It deals, I say, not always gently. It is often exacting
and severe. It often binds burdens too heavy for youthful shoulders. It often refuses leisure
which health imperatively demands, and denies compensations which might furnish less temptation
to crime. But I am not here to speak of these now. How does it deal with the young man morally?
Does business take into the account, to any great extent, the fact that young men are moral
and intellectual beings? How much leisure does it afford them for mental or religious culture?
Alas, with the most charitable view of the case, with the noble exceptions clearly recognized,
business presents a sad aspect in this regard. The maxim “business is business” is carried
too far. What the world may think or do in this matter is not the question here; but to Christian
men, who believe or profess to believe that religion belongs everywhere, business should be
something more than business. How many Christian business men recognize in its contact opportunities
for the exertion of Christian influence as well as for making money? How many see in their
clerks something besides the hired arms or brains to carry on their trade? How many recognize
them as beings with social instincts as well as with sharp wits; immortal souls as well as
clear heads; susceptibilities to temptation as well as to self-interest; young men who are
to fill a place in these democratic communities, to cast their votes, exert their influence,
be each the centre of a greater or smaller circle, be fathers to train up children and perpetuate
their own moral character and sentiments whatever they be? How many consider the influence
which their position of employer gives them over the moral destiny of these youth; the power
they may wield through the truly affectionate and confidential relations subsisting between
them? How many concern themselves as to where their clerks go after business hours, what associations
they form, whether they have a place of worship or not? How many of you business men, here
to-day, are in the habit of asking the young men in your employ to accompany you to church,
or to Bible class, or to prayer-meeting?

Take the community at large. Its influence, if exerted in this direction, must be chiefly confined
to furnishing some counter attraction, moral, but not necessarily religious, to the attractions
of the haunts of sin. And a great work can be done here, in which men of the most opposite
religious theories, and men with no religion at all can unite. There, for instance, is the
temperance question. There is a variety of views on the subject; but all agree that intemperance
is an awful evil, and one which all moral and religious men are called on to resist and suppress
by every possible means. We believe that the only effectual method of reforming a drunkard,
or of keeping a man from becoming one, is to make him a Christian. That will reform in all
respects. But we cannot bring the community to agree on this platform. Here then is one where
all can unite, namely, in organizing some force to overbalance the attractions of the dram
shop. It need not be distinctively religious, only free from vicious associations. The saloon
keeper understands perfectly that not one young man in ten comes to his haunt originally to
drink or in which to gamble. He wants a warm and pleasant room to sit down and chat with his
companion; to read his evening paper, or it may be to procure a meal. So this minister of corruption
proceeds to make provision for these natural and healthy cravings, that, through them, he may
excite those unnatural and depraved desires, the satisfaction of which constitutes his chief
source of profit. He furnishes his rooms tastefully and comfortably. He provides food of all
kinds prepared to please the most fastidious palate. A small sum will secure a quiet and cosy
retreat where the youth and his friends may pass an evening. But he furnishes the bar with
its tempting array of liquors. He gathers there his array of well dressed and gentlemanly confederates
who are always ready to challenge to drink, and to sneer at the principle which refuses. He
has his licentious pictures to stimulate the passions, and abundant facilities for their gratification.
And thousands of youths who went thither at first, only because they could find no other retreat,
have come at last to frequent it for the gratification of the basest appetites, and have gone
from its doors at last, hopeless, homeless drunkards.

