In dealing with this social problem, the problem of how to secure harmony of social and individual
interests and actions, it is necessary first of all to recognize that both motives are equally
important and necessary agents of human progress. The idea largely prevails that Socialists
ignore the individual motive and consider only the social motive, just as the ultra-individualists
have erred in an opposite discrimination. The Socialist ideal has been conceived to be a great
bureaucracy. Mr. Anstey gave humorous and vivid expression to this idea in Punch some years
ago, when he represented the citizens of the Socialist state as being all clothed alike, known
only by numbers, strangers to all the joys of family life, plodding through their allotted
tasks under a race of hated bureaucrats, and having the solace of chewing gum in their leisure
time as a specially paternal provision. Some such mental picture must have inspired Herbert
Spencer's "Coming Slavery," and it must be confessed that the early forms of Socialism which
consisted mainly of detailed plans of coöperative commonwealths afforded some excuse for the
idea. Most intelligent Socialists, if called upon to choose between them, would probably prefer
to live in Thibet under a personal despotism, rather than under the hierarchies of most of
the imaginary commonwealths which Utopian Socialists have depicted.

Even in the later propaganda of the modern political Socialist movement, there has been more
than enough justification for those who regard Socialism as impossible except under a great
bureaucracy. In numberless Socialist programmes and addresses Socialism has been defined as
meaning "The social ownership and control of all the means of production, distribution, and
exchange." Critics of Socialism are not to be seriously blamed if they take such "definitions"
at their face value and interpret them quite literally. It is not difficult to see that in
order to place "all means of production, distribution, and exchange" under social ownership
and control, the creation of such a bureaucracy as the world has never seen would be necessary.
A needle is a means of production quite as much as an electric power machine in a factory is,
the difference being in their degrees of efficiency. A jackknife is, likewise, in certain circumstances,
a means of production, just as surely as a powerful planing machine is, the difference being
in degrees of efficiency. So a market basket is a means of distribution quite as surely as
an ocean steamship is; a wheelbarrow quite as much as a locomotive. They differ in degrees
of efficiency, that is all. The idea that the housewife in the future, when she wants to sew
a button upon a garment, will be obliged to go to some department and "take out" a needle,
having it properly checked in the communal accounts, and being responsible for its return,
is, of course, worthy only of opera bouffe. So is the notion of the state owning wheelbarrows
and market baskets and making their private ownership illegal. "The socialization of all the
means of production, distribution, and exchange," literally interpreted, is folly. But none
of those using the phrase must be regarded as seriously contemplating its literal interpretation.
For many years the phrase was included in the statement of its "Object" by the English Social
Democratic Federation, and even now it appears in a slightly modified form, the word "all"
being omitted,[181] perhaps because of its tautological character. For several years the writer
was a member of the Federation, actively engaged in the propaganda, and how we spent much of
our time explaining to popular audiences in halls and upon street corners that the socialization
of jackknives, needles, sewing machines, market baskets, beer mugs, frying pans, and toothpicks
was not our aim, is a merry memory.

When this is understood, the nightmare of the bureaucracy of Socialism vanishes. It is no longer
necessary to fret ourselves asking how a government is to own and manage everything without
making slaves of its citizens. The question propounded by that venerable and distinguished
Canadian scholar, Professor Goldwin Smith,[182] whether a government can be devised which shall
hold all the instruments of production, distribute to the citizens their tasks, pick out inventors,
philosophers, artists, and laborers, and set them to work, without destroying personal liberty,
loses its force when it is remembered that Socialism involves no such necessity.

The Socialist ideal may be said to be a form of social organization in which every individual
will enjoy the greatest possible amount of freedom for self-development and expression; and
in which social authority will be reduced to the minimum necessary for the preservation and
insurance of that right to all individuals. There is an incontestable right of the individual
to full and free self-development and expression so long as no other individual's right to
a like freedom is infringed upon. No individual right can be an absolute right in a society,
but must be subject to such restrictions as may be necessary to safeguard the like right of
every other individual, and of society as a whole. Absolute personal liberty is not possible;
to grant it to any one individual would be equivalent to denying it to others. If, in a certain
community, a need is commonly felt for a system of drainage to protect the citizens against
the perils of a possible outbreak of typhoid or some other epidemic disease, and all the citizens
agree upon a scheme except two or three, who, in the name of personal liberty, declare that
their property must not be touched, what is to be done? If the citizens, out of solicitude
for the personal liberty of the objecting individuals, abandon or modify their plans, is it
not clear that the liberty of the many has been sacrificed to the liberty of the few, which
is the essence of tyranny? Absolute individual liberty is incompatible with social liberty.
The liberty of each must, in Mill's phrase, be bounded by the like liberty of all. Absolute
personal liberty is a chimera, a delusion.

Even the Anarchist must come to a realization of the fact that liberty is not an absolute,
but a relative and limited, right. Kropotkin, for example, realizes that, even under Anarchism,
any individual who did not live up to his obligations, or who persisted in conducting himself
in a manner obnoxious or injurious to the community, would have to be expelled.[183] This is
very like Spencer's practical abandonment of the doctrine of laissez faire individualism. Says
he: "Many facts have shown us that while the individual man has acquired liberty as a citizen
and greater religious liberty, he has also acquired greater liberty in respect of his occupations;
and here we see that he has simultaneously acquired greater liberty of combination for industrial
purposes. Indeed, in conformity with the universal law of rhythm, there has been a change from
excess of restriction to deficiency of restriction. As is implied by legislation now pending,
the facilities for forming companies and raising compound capitals have been too great."[184]
Here is a very definite confession of the insufficiency of natural law, the failure of the
laissez faire theory, and a virtual appeal for restrictive and coercive legislation.

This is inevitable. The dual forces which serve as the motives of individual and collective
action, spring, unquestionably, from the fact that individuals are at once alike and unlike,
equal and unequal. Alike in our needs of certain fundamental necessities, such as food, clothing,
shelter, coöperation for producing these necessities, for protection from foes, human and other,
we are unlike in tastes, appetites, temperaments, character, will, and so on, till our diversity
becomes as great and as general as our likeness. Now, the problem is to insure equal opportunities
of full development to all these diversely constituted and endowed individuals, and, at the
same time, to maintain the principle of equal obligations to society on the part of every individual.
This is the problem of social justice: to insure to each the same social opportunities, to
secure from each a recognition of the same obligations toward all. The basic principle of the
Socialist state must be justice; no privileges or favors can be extended to individuals or
groups of individuals.

III

Politically, the organization of the Socialist state must be democratic. Socialism without
democracy is as impossible as a shadow without light. The word "Socialism" applied to schemes
of paternalism, and to government ownership when the vital principle of democracy is lacking,
is a misnomer. As with Peter Bell--

     "A primrose by a river's brim,
     A yellow primrose was to him"

and nothing more than that, so there are many persons to whom Socialism signifies nothing more
than government ownership. Yet it ought to be perfectly clear that Russia, with her state-owned
railways, and liquor and other monopolies, is no nearer Socialism than the United States. The
same applies to Germany with her state railways. Externally similar in one respect to Socialism,
they radically differ. In so far as they prepare the necessary forms for Socialism, all examples
of public ownership may be said to be "socialistic," or making for Socialism. What they lack
is a spiritual quality rather than a mechanical one. They are not democratic. Socialism is
political democracy allied to industrial democracy.

Justice requires that the legislative power of society rest upon universal adult suffrage,
the political equality of all men and women, except lunatics and criminals. It is manifestly
unjust to exact obedience to the laws from those who have had no share in making them and can
have no share in altering them. Of course, there are exceptions to this principle. We except
(1) minors, children not yet arrived at the age of responsibility agreed upon by the citizens;
(2) lunatics and certain classes of criminals; (3) aliens, non-citizens temporarily resident
in the state.

Democracy in the sense of popular self-government, the "government of the people, by the people,
and for the people," of which political rhetoricians boast, is only approximately attainable
in any society. While all can equally participate in the legislative power, all cannot participate
directly in the administrative power, and it becomes necessary, therefore, to adopt the principle
of delegated authority, representative government. But care must be taken to preserve a maximum
of power in the hands of the people. In this respect the United States Constitution is defective.
It is not, and was not intended by its framers to be, a democratic instrument,[185] and we
are vainly trying to-day to make democratic government through an undemocratic medium. The
political democracy of the Socialist state must be real, keeping the power of government in
the hands of the people.

How is this to be done? Direct legislation by the people might be realized through the adoption
of the principles of popular initiative and referendum. Or, if representative legislative bodies
should be deemed best, these measures, together with proportional representation and the right
of recall, might be adopted. There is no apparent reason why all legislation, except temporary
legislation as in war time, famine, plague, and such abnormal conditions, could not be directly
initiated and enacted, leaving only the just and proper enforcement of the law to delegated
authority. In practically all the political programmes of Socialist parties throughout the
world, these principles are included at the present time; not merely as means to secure a greater
degree of political democracy within the existing social state, but also, and primarily, to
prepare the required political framework of democracy for the industrial commonwealth of the
future.

The great problem for such a society, politically speaking, consists in choosing wisely the
trustees of delegated power and authority, and seeing that they justly and wisely use it for
the common good, without abuse, either for the profit of themselves or their friends, and without
prejudice to any portion of society. Will there be abuses? Will not political manipulators
and bosses betray their trusts? To these questions, and all other questions of a like nature,
the Socialist can only give one answer, namely, that there is no such a thing as an "automatic
democracy," that eternal vigilance will be the price of liberty under Socialism as it has ever
been. There can be no other safeguard against the usurpation of power than the popular will
and conscience ever alert upon the watch-towers. With political machinery so responsive to
the popular will when it is asserted and an alert and vigilant electorate, political democracy
attains its maximum development. Socialism requires that development.

IV

With these general principles prevised, we may consider, briefly, the respective rights of
the individual and of society. The rights of the individual may be summarized as follows: There
must be freedom of movement, including the right to withdraw from the domain of the government,
to migrate at will to other territories. Freedom of movement is a fundamental condition of
personal liberty, but it is easy to see that it cannot be made an absolute right. Quarantine
laws, for social protection, for example, may seriously inconvenience the individual, but be
imperatively necessary for all that. There must be immunity from arrest, except for infringing
others' rights, with compensation of some kind for improper arrest; respect of the privacy
of domicile and correspondence; full liberty of dress, subject to decency; freedom of utterance,
whether by speech or publication, subject only to the protection of others from insult, injury,
or interference with their equal liberties, the individual being held responsible to society
for the proper use of that right. Freedom of the individual in all that pertains to art, science,
philosophy, and religion, and their teaching, or propaganda, is essential. The state can have
nothing to do with these matters, they belong to the personal life alone.[186] Art, science,
philosophy, and religion cannot be protected by any authority of the state, nor is such authority
needed.

Subject to the ultimate control of society, certainly, but normally free from collective authority
and control, these may be regarded as imperative rights of the individual. Doubtless many Socialists,
in common with many Individualists, would considerably extend the list. Some, for instance,
would include the right to possess and bear arms for the defense of person and property. On
the other hand, it might be objected with good show of reason by other Socialists that such
a right must always be liable to abuses imperiling the peace of society, and that the same
ends would be served more surely if individual armament were made impossible. Again, some Socialists,
like some Individualists, would include in the category of private acts outside the sphere
of law and social authority the union of the sexes. They would do away with legal intervention
in marriage and make it and the parental relation exclusively a private concern. On the other
hand, probably an overwhelming majority of Socialists would object. They would insist that
the state must, in the interest of the children, and for its own self-preservation, assume
certain responsibilities for, and exercise a certain control over, all marriages. They would
have the state insist upon such conditions as mature age, freedom from dangerous diseases and
physical defects. While believing that under Socialism marriage would no longer be subject
to economic motives,--matrimonial markets for titles and fortunes no longer existing,--and
that the maximum of personal freedom together with the minimum of social authority would be
possible in the union of the sexes, they would still insist upon the necessity of that minimum
of legal control.

The abolition of the legal marriage tie, and the substitution therefor of voluntary sex union,
which so many people believe to be part of the Socialist programme, is not only not a part
of that programme, but is probably condemned by more than ninety-five per cent of the Socialists
of the world, and favored by no appreciable proportion of Socialists more than non-Socialists.
There is no such thing as a Socialist view of marriage, any more than there is a Republican
or Democratic view of marriage; or any more than there is a Socialist view of vaccination,
vivisection, vegetarianism, or homeopathy. The same may be said of the drink evil and tobacco
smoking. Some Socialists would prohibit both smoking and drinking; others would permit smoking,
but prohibit the manufacture of intoxicating liquors; most Socialists recognize the evils,
especially of drunkenness, but believe that it would be foolish at this time to state in what
manner the evils must be dealt with by the Socialist state.

Our hasty summary by no means exhausts the category of personal liberties, nor does it rigidly
define such liberties. To presume to do that would be a piece of charlatanry, social quackery
of the worst type. It is not for the Socialist of to-day to determine what the citizens of
a generation hence shall do. The citizens of the future, like the citizens of to-day, will
be living human beings, not mere automatons; they will not accept places and forms imposed
upon them, but make their own. The object of this phase of our discussion is simply to show
that individual freedom would by no means be crushed out of existence by the Socialist state.
The intolerable bureaucracy of collectivism is wholly an imaginary evil. There is nothing in
the nature of Socialism as it is understood to-day by its adherents which would prevent a wide
extension of personal liberties in the social régime.

