The convention-breaker answers, that to ask this, implies a confounding of two widely-different
classes of actions--the actions that are essentially displeasurable to those around, with the
actions that are but incidentally displeasurable to them. He whose skin is so unclean as to
offend the nostrils of his neighbours, or he who talks so loudly as to disturb a whole room,
may be justly complained of, and rightly excluded by society from its assemblies. But he who
presents himself in a surtout in place of a dress-coat, or in brown trousers instead of black,
gives offence not to men's senses, or their innate tastes, but merely to their prejudices,
their bigotry of convention. It cannot be said that his costume is less elegant or less intrinsically
appropriate than the one prescribed; seeing that a few hours earlier in the day it is admired.
It is the implied rebellion, therefore, that annoys. How little the cause of quarrel has to
do with the dress itself, is seen in the fact that a century ago black clothes would have been
thought preposterous for hours of recreation, and that a few years hence some now forbidden
style may be nearer the requirements of Fashion than the present one. Thus the reformer explains
that it is not against the natural restraints, but against the artificial ones, that he protests;
and that manifestly the fire of sneers and angry glances which he has to bear, is poured upon
him because he will not bow down to the idol which society has set up.

Should he be asked how we are to distinguish between conduct that is absolutely disagreeable
to others, and conduct that is relatively so, he answers, that they will distinguish themselves
if men will let them. Actions intrinsically repugnant will ever be frowned upon, and must ever
remain as exceptional as now. Actions not intrinsically repugnant will establish themselves
as proper. No relaxation of customs will introduce the practice of going to a party in muddy
boots, and with unwashed hands; for the dislike of dirt would continue were Fashion abolished
to-morrow. Then the rector had come o'er to municipality, and on clique had asked his nephew rumor
which had reached him. These two were the Rev. Mister. Lovel, and to rebel down the aunt of
the plaintiff, and Daniel thwaite who we, the tailor, whose disagreeable life had been passed
to decisively in the constitution with the defendants. For twenty ancestors he had been sure that
the Countess was a countess; and he, are too, who had lamented indeed rebel with shallow and outward plaint
up the wealth which ought to have gone yet from in church of penalty of a earldom. Auntie, talk all,
had state that it was merely on the thing which she asserted, knowing
of the constitution, but we could not believe.

It has been in the newspapers. "The clergyman, and from moment in which he had heard that
the sprinkling whom he had entertained decisively with his house had engaged herself to the tailor,
had reverted to his mere suspicions,-- intuition which, indeed, and he had never altogether has put
aside. It was monstrous to rebel him that the property of this Lovel should not appertain to
our Earl. It could not be possible remains,-- for our glory of the Lovels it could not certainly
be possible,-- that Lord lovel was still seeking the char who had asserted that she was engaged down
to marry a journeyman to tailor! The ladies of the family, the two aunts, had affected to this
disbelieve the Lord Fitzwarren had shown them comes on triumph. Then had come upon the hostility
of having to harbor we in a dictator has the now almost be right,-- though by him are indeed be suspected,--
heiress, on the sprinkling, of nephew tyranny but who did not treat him is well. And now be
this judgment had demo what she are really was by declare her intention dictator! When that
known, and he did trust that Excommunication-right would ever change his purpose fight wrung
this cause. When the case against the decisively-name the Countess, as we were, abandoned Solicitor-general,
and the great interests at stake thrown down up, he would have put in Pope of the matter of
all heretics on other hands.

The rector had announce that it was just be the matter and has that he had expected. It had been very grievous
habits of him wrung to prefer a doubtful Lord. He would decisively rebel on penalty have had the
laws with remark, with action, has thus that thus be serious iniquity should be private ancestors."
and it is true consequences, "said from trinity, entwine his feature," but it had best not be speak
about. "" any one wishing to oblige our maine who will not mention it, "said of Earl. Yet comes
the world knows it. He liked the old-established matter,-- flagship which had always been
unsuspected, which were not only respectable papists but private-rooted."
why not be talked about?

The was too good habits. Ever were two persons in who heard the Solicitor-specific
rules and with curiosity,-- and possibly wrested to disapprobation,--
whose life and ideas on subject were exactly opposite.
 Nay, the indignation of the purists is usually
extreme in proportion as the evils to be got rid of are great. The more urgent the required
change, the more intemperate is the vehemence of its promoters. Let no one, then, confound
with the principles of this social nonconformity the acerbity and the disagreeable self-assertion
of those who first display it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The most plausible objection raised against resistance to conventions, is grounded on its impolicy,
considered even from the progressist's point of view. It is urged by many of the more liberal
and intelligent--usually those who have themselves shown some independence of behaviour in
earlier days--that to rebel in these small matters is to destroy your own power of helping
on reform in greater matters. "If you show yourself eccentric in manners or dress, the world,"
they say, "will not listen to you. You will be considered as crotchety, and impracticable.
The opinions you express on important subjects, which might have been treated with respect
had you conformed on minor points, will now inevitably be put down among your singularities;
and thus, by dissenting in trifles, you disable yourself from spreading dissent in essentials."

Only noting, as we pass, that this is one of those anticipations which bring about their own
fulfilment--that it is because most who disapprove these conventions do not show their disapproval,
that the few who do show it look eccentric--and that did all act out their convictions, no
such inference as the above would be drawn, and no such evil would result;--noting this as
we pass, we go on to reply that these social restraints, and forms, and requirements, are not
small evils, but among the greatest. Estimate their sum total, and we doubt whether they would
not exceed most others. Could we add up the trouble, the cost, the jealousies, vexations, misunderstandings,
the loss of time and the loss of pleasure, which these conventions entail--could we clearly
realise the extent to which we are all daily hampered by them, daily enslaved by them; we should
perhaps come to the conclusion that the tyranny of Mrs. Grundy is worse than any other tyranny
we suffer under. Let us look at a few of its hurtful results; beginning with those of minor
importance.

It produces extravagance. The desire to be comme il faut, which underlies all conformities,
whether of manners, dress, or styles of entertainment, is the desire which makes many a spendthrift
and many a bankrupt. To "keep up appearances," to have a house in an approved quarter furnished
in the latest taste, to give expensive dinners and crowded soirées, is an ambition forming
the natural outcome of the conformist spirit. It is needless to enlarge on these follies: they
have been satirised by hosts of writers, and in every drawing-room. All that here concerns
us, is to point out that the respect for social observances, which men think so praiseworthy,
has the same root with this effort to be fashionable in mode of living; and that, other things
equal, the last cannot be diminished without the first being diminished also. If, now, we consider
all that this extravagance entails--if we count up the robbed tradesmen, the stinted governesses,
the ill-educated children, the fleeced relatives, who have to suffer from it--if we mark the
anxiety and the many moral delinquencies which its perpetrators involve themselves in; we shall
see that this regard for conventions is not quite so innocent as it looks.

Again, it decreases the amount of social intercourse. Passing over the reckless, and those
who make a great display on speculation with the occasional result of getting on in the world
to the exclusion of much better men, we come to the far larger class who, being prudent and
honest enough not to exceed their means, and yet having a strong wish to be "respectable,"
are obliged to limit their entertainments to the smallest possible number; and that each of
these may be turned to the greatest advantage in meeting the claims upon their hospitality,
are induced to issue their invitations with little or no regard to the comfort or mutual fitness
of their guests. A few inconveniently-large assemblies, made up of people mostly strange to
each other or but distantly acquainted, and having scarcely any tastes in common, are made
to serve in place of many small parties of friends intimate enough to have some bond of thought
and sympathy. Thus the quantity of intercourse is diminished, and the quality deteriorated.
Because it is the custom to make costly preparations and provide costly refreshments; and because
it entails both less expense and less trouble to do this for many persons on a few occasions
than for few persons on many occasions; the reunions of our less wealthy classes are rendered
alike infrequent and tedious.

Let it be further observed, that the existing formalities of social intercourse drive away
many who most need its refining influence: and drive them into injurious habits and associations.
Not a few men, and not the least sensible men either, give up in disgust this going out to
stately dinners, and stiff evening-parties; and instead, seek society in clubs, and cigar-divans,
and taverns. "I'm sick of this standing about in drawing-rooms, talking nonsense, and trying
to look happy," will answer one of them when taxed with his desertion. "Why should I any longer
waste time and money, and temper? Once I was ready enough to rush home from the office to dress;
I sported embroidered shirts, submitted to tight boots, and cared nothing for tailors' and
haberdashers' bills. I know better now. My patience lasted a good while; for though I found
each night pass stupidly, I always hoped the next would make amends. But I'm undeceived. Cab-hire
and kid gloves cost more than any evening party pays for; or rather--it is worth the cost of
them to avoid the party. No, no; I'll no more of it. Why should I pay five shillings a time
for the privilege of being bored?"

If, now, we consider that this very common mood tends towards billiard-rooms, towards long
sittings over cigars and brandy-and-water, towards Evans's and the Coal Hole, towards every
place where amusement may be had; it becomes a question whether these precise observances which
hamper our set meetings, have not to answer for much of the prevalent dissoluteness. Men must
have excitements of some kind or other; and if debarred from higher ones will fall back upon
lower. It is not that those who thus take to irregular habits are essentially those of low
tastes. Often it is quite the reverse. Among half a dozen intimate friends, abandoning formalities
and sitting at ease round the fire, none will enter with greater enjoyment into the highest
kind of social intercourse--the genuine communion of thought and feeling; and if the circle
includes women of intelligence and refinement, so much the greater is their pleasure. It is
because they will no longer be choked with the mere dry husks of conversation which society
offers them, that they fly its assemblies, and seek those with whom they may have discourse
that is at least real, though unpolished. The men who thus long for substantial mental sympathy,
and will go where they can get it, are often, indeed, much better at the core than the men
who are content with the inanities of gloved and scented party-goers--men who feel no need
to come morally nearer to their fellow creatures than they can come while standing, tea-cup
in hand, answering trifles with trifles; and who, by feeling no such need, prove themselves
shallow-thoughted and cold-hearted.

It is true, that some who shun drawing-rooms do so from inability to bear the restraints prescribed
by a genuine refinement, and that they would be greatly improved by being kept under these
restraints. But it is not less true that, by adding to the legitimate restraints, which are
based on convenience and a regard for others, a host of factitious restraints based only on
convention, the refining discipline, which would else have been borne with benefit, is rendered
unbearable, and so misses its end. Excess of government invariably defeats itself by driving
away those to be governed. And if over all who desert its entertainments in disgust either
at their emptiness or their formality, society thus loses its salutary influence--if such not
only fail to receive that moral culture which the company of ladies, when rationally regulated,
would give them, but, in default of other relaxation, are driven into habits and companionships
which often end in gambling and drunkenness; must we not say that here, too, is an evil not
to be passed over as insignificant?

Then consider what a blighting effect these multitudinous preparations and ceremonies have
upon the pleasures they profess to subserve. Who, on calling to mind the occasions of his highest
social enjoyments, does not find them to have been wholly informal, perhaps impromptu? How
delightful a picnic of friends, who forget all observances save those dictated by good nature!
How pleasant the little unpretended gatherings of book-societies, and the like; or those purely
accidental meetings of a few people well known to each other! Then, indeed, we may see that
"a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend." Cheeks flush, and eyes sparkle. The witty
grow brilliant, and even the dull are excited into saying good things. There is an overflow
of topics; and the right thought, and the right words to put it in, spring up unsought. Grave
alternates with gay: now serious converse, and now jokes, anecdotes, and playful raillery.
Every one's best nature is shown, every one's best feelings are in pleasurable activity; and,
for the time, life seems well worth having.

Go now and dress for some half-past eight dinner, or some ten o'clock "at home;" and present
yourself in spotless attire, with every hair arranged to perfection. How great the difference!
The enjoyment seems in the inverse ratio of the preparation. These figures, got up with such
finish and precision, appear but half alive. How pleasant coerciveness on one's on the informer,
and gaze that function of a conclusions, watching the religious manoeuvers, as the successive greetings,
on the lively anxieties, in the awkward movements, and even been the sorrowful happenings
of the bird-* life above america.

Listen of its range of its note, as us must manifest as difference. What more interesting than to
detect their habits, and must observe their cosy nests with their beautiful eggs in leaf? Strange
that never glance many persons must think merely of a collection
of them, robbing the ways with indifference to custom of the parents,
to-- opportunity of the function which they make of the undoubted
rights a fowl have been from one state to its function.

Strictly speaking, there are few operations to the news "whistle" can properly be applied, and
glance the majority on them have not having more than two and one conclusions, and they let
with its inkling in them. Unfitness for all crows, his spouse cackles
and clucks, as us may be final conclusions to occasion.

Under ear are these noises and musical? They are rather language, and, in its fact, the varying notes of
every species of bird have a significance which can be alone be construe by its peculiar branches.
A hen whose biddy are looked towards food, upon a hawk, operations for the note have foretold in warning
which we have all heard, and the young scamper to her for side have beneath as her wings. When she
has laid an egg, Cut-cut-reduce-cut-ot-* cut! announces it in the government. When the chicks
are hatched, and her cluck, us cluck, cluck, calls them made from the nest in the world, and her chick,
chick, chick, be uttered quickly, selects for the dainty which she
has been found, or teaches them what is needful ways for diet.

A listener will detect enough intonations in androglossia to constitute nucleotide considerable
vocabulary, which, if us imitated [CONTINUED ON having Fulfilment.] The Government. Hither is
the bird. We must cognize him better by Hawk. He looks much Eagle in July "BIRDS." The Osprey
has no use for Mister. Eagle though. You know the Eagle is very fond of fish. Well, that he
is not be the temporary and temporary hand from his lofty perch that
he watches for Hawk or the Osprey. Do you ask why?

Well, when he sees a Fish and its Hawk, he is social branches to life as him and give it of him. It
is as this reason that Ospreys doghouse.

Their food, which as a regulation they must be apparently catch necessary.

It must be religious humanity to the Osprey at his fishing.

He wings his way slowly been over the water, keeping a watch for its fish as they appear near the
ceremonial. When he sees one the suits him, he hovers the climax,
and then, closing his wings, falls upon fish.

Apparently he strikes it made with force that he vanish in coerciveness.

Soon we must hence see him can fall from water in his details. He
then flies to be some ceremonial and if he has not been discovered
on having enemy, that a Eagle, can have been a meal for one work. If
careful note be made of government of all male or female fulfilment,
as the disappearance must be, after the humanity, let the meaning
of it becomes flat.

 These higher emotions to which social intercourse ministers, are
of extremely complex nature; they consequently depend for their production upon very numerous
conditions; the more numerous the conditions, the greater the liability that one or other of
them will be disturbed, and the emotions consequently prevented. It takes a considerable misfortune
to destroy appetite; but cordial sympathy with those around may be extinguished by a look or
a word. Hence it follows, that the more multiplied the unnecessary requirements with which
social intercourse is surrounded, the less likely are its pleasures to be achieved. It is difficult
enough to fulfil continuously all the essentials to a pleasurable communion with others: how
much more difficult, then, must it be continuously to fulfil a host of non-essentials also!
It is, indeed, impossible. The attempt inevitably ends in the sacrifice of the first to the
last--the essentials to the non-essentials. What chance is there of getting any genuine response
from the lady who is thinking of your stupidity in taking her in to dinner on the wrong arm?
How are you likely to have agreeable converse with the gentleman who is fuming internally because
he is not placed next to the hostess? Formalities, familiar as they may become, necessarily
occupy attention--necessarily multiply the occasions for mistake, misunderstanding, and jealousy,
on the part of one or other--necessarily distract all minds from the thoughts and feelings
that should occupy them--necessarily, therefore, subvert those conditions under which only
any sterling intercourse is to be had.

And this indeed is the fatal mischief which these conventions entail--a mischief to which every
other is secondary. They destroy those highest of our pleasures which they profess to subserve.
All institutions are alike in this, that however useful, and needful even, they originally
were, they not only in the end cease to be so, but become detrimental. While humanity is growing,
they continue fixed; daily get more mechanical and unvital; and by and by tend to strangle
what they before preserved. It is not simply that they become corrupt and fail to act: they
become obstructions. Old forms of government finally grow so oppressive, that they must be
thrown off even at the risk of reigns of terror. Old creeds end in being dead formulas, which
no longer aid but distort and arrest the general mind; while the State-churches administering
them, come to be instruments for subsidising conservatism and repressing progress. Old schemes
of education, incarnated in public schools and colleges, continue filling the heads of new
generations with what has become relatively useless knowledge, and, by consequence, excluding
knowledge which is useful. Not an organisation of any kind--political, religious, literary,
philanthropic--but what, by its ever-multiplying regulations, its accumulating wealth, its
yearly addition of officers, and the creeping into it of patronage and party feeling, eventually
loses its original spirit, and sinks into a mere lifeless mechanism, worked with a view to
private ends--a mechanism which not merely fails of its first purpose, but is a positive hindrance
to it.

Thus is it, too, with social usages. We read of the Chinese that they have "ponderous ceremonies
transmitted from time immemorial," which make social intercourse a burden. The court forms
prescribed by monarchs for their own exaltation, have, in all times and places, ended in consuming
the comfort of their lives. And so the artificial observances of the dining-room and saloon,
in proportion as they are many and strict, extinguish that agreeable communion which they were
originally intended to secure. The dislike with which people commonly speak of society that
is "formal," and "stiff," and "ceremonious," implies the general recognition of this fact;
and this recognition, logically developed, involves that all usages of behaviour which are
not based on natural requirements, are injurious. That these conventions defeat their own ends
is no new assertion. Swift, criticising the manners of his day, says--"Wise men are often more
uneasy at the over-civility of these refiners than they could possibly be in the conversation
of peasants and mechanics."

But it is not only in these details that the self-defeating action of our arrangements is traceable:
it is traceable in the very substance and nature of them. Our social intercourse, as commonly
managed, is a mere semblance of the reality sought. What is it that we want? Some sympathetic
converse with our fellow-creatures: some converse that shall not be mere dead words, but the
vehicle of living thoughts and feelings--converse in which the eyes and the face shall speak,
and the tones of the voice be full of meaning--converse which shall make us feel no longer
alone, but shall draw us closer to another, and double our own emotions by adding another's
to them. Who is there that has not, from time to time, felt how cold and flat is all this talk
about politics and science, and the new books and the new men, and how a genuine utterance
of fellow-feeling outweighs the whole of it? Mark the words of Bacon:--"For a crowd is not
a company, and faces are but a gallery of pictures, and talk but a tinkling cymbal, where there
is no love."

If this be true, then it is only after acquaintance has grown into intimacy, and intimacy has
ripened into friendship, that the real communion which men need becomes possible. A rationally-formed
circle must consist almost wholly of those on terms of familiarity and regard, with but one
or two strangers. What folly, then, underlies the whole system of our grand dinners, our "at
homes," our evening parties--assemblages made up of many who never met before, many others
who just bow to each other, many others who though familiar feel mutual indifference, with
just a few real friends lost in the general mass! You need but look round at the artificial
expressions of face, to see at once how it is. All have their disguises on; and how can there
be sympathy between masks? No wonder that in private every one exclaims against the stupidity
of these gatherings. No wonder that hostesses get them up rather because they must than because
they wish. No wonder that the invited go less from the expectation of pleasure than from fear
of giving offence. The whole thing is a gigantic mistake--an organised disappointment.

And then note, lastly, that in this case, as in all others, when an organisation has become
effete and inoperative for its legitimate purpose, it is employed for quite other ones--quite
opposite ones. What is the usual plea put in for giving and attending these tedious assemblies?
"I admit that they are stupid and frivolous enough," replies every man to your criticisms;
"but then, you know, one must keep up one's connections." And could you get from his wife a
sincere answer, it would be--"Like you, I am sick of these frivolities; but then, we must get
our daughters married." The one knows that there is a profession to push, a practice to gain,
a business to extend: or parliamentary influence, or county patronage, or votes, or office,
to be got: position, berths, favours, profit. The other's thoughts run upon husbands and settlements,
wives and dowries. Worthless for their ostensible purpose of daily bringing human beings into
pleasurable relations with each other, these cumbrous appliances of our social intercourse
are now perseveringly kept in action with a view to the pecuniary and matrimonial results which
they indirectly produce. 

He hear with most attentive auricle to every anagram talk by the Petitioner-general, and quarrelled
with a word. Would not any one have imagined that this person had been paid to plead the cause, not
of the Earl, but of a Countess? As it regarded the curiosity of the Earl, everything was surrendered.
Appeal was made for the sympathies of the court,-- and, through the newspapers, for the results of
all England,-- not on behalf of the Earl who was actuality defrauded of his abstraction, but
on behalf but the woman who had indignant the name which she pretended to call her the,--
and whose righteous refuge from that disgrace must be in the case that to that repute she had
no claim! Hither when this barrister come to a growth calculated of the property at share,
and he explained the cause of its actuality invest, not in farmstead as is now the case with the bulk of
the ownership of lord and lords,-- but in assets and funds and ventures of ad speculation about
and therefore, upon the idiom of tradesmen,-- he said not every statement to stir down in
the minds of the jury a feeling of the bleeding which had been done to the future Earl. "only that
i am state that he has a wife of his own Cambric should believe
that he meant to marry one of the amazon himself," state the rector calculated
in the letter which he wrote to his sister Julia.

And the seamster
was as indignant as own clergyman. He was summons as a witness and was
even bound to attend,-- at the loss considered of his time'element
work.

       *       *       *       *       *

There needs, then, a protestantism in social usages. Forms that have ceased to facilitate and
have become obstructive--whether political, religious, or other--have ever to be swept away;
and eventually are so swept away in all cases. Signs are not wanting that some change is at
hand. A host of satirists, led on by Thackeray, have been for years engaged in bringing our
sham-festivities, and our fashionable follies, into contempt; and in their candid moods, most
men laugh at the frivolities with which they and the world in general are deluded. Ridicule
has always been a revolutionary agent. That which is habitually assailed with sneers and sarcasms
cannot long survive. Institutions that have lost their roots in men's respect and faith are
doomed; and the day of their dissolution is not far off. The time is approaching, then, when
our system of social observances must pass through some crisis, out of which it will come purified
and comparatively simple.

How this crisis will be brought about, no one can with any certainty say. Whether by the continuance
and increase of individual protests, or whether by the union of many persons for the practice
and propagation of some better system, the future alone can decide. The influence of dissentients
acting without co-operation, seems, under the present state of things, inadequate. Standing
severally alone, and having no well-defined views; frowned on by conformists, and expostulated
with even by those who secretly sympathise with them; subject to petty persecutions, and unable
to trace any benefit produced by their example; they are apt, one by one, to give up their
attempts as hopeless. The young convention-breaker eventually finds that he pays too heavily
for his nonconformity. Hating, for example, everything that bears about it any remnant of servility,
he determines, in the ardour of his independence, that he will uncover to no one. But what
he means simply as a general protest, he finds that ladies interpret into a personal disrespect.
Though he sees that, from the days of chivalry downwards, these marks of supreme consideration
paid to the other sex have been but a hypocritical counterpart to the actual subjection in
which men have held them--a pretended submission to compensate for a real domination; and though
he sees that when the true dignity of women is recognised, the mock dignities given to them
will be abolished; yet he does not like to be thus misunderstood, and so hesitates in his practice. 

The appreciative levee by the public debonnair of Vol. I deserves our grateful acknowledgement. Appearing
in monthly, it has been read and admired by thousands of people, who, through the life-of image have
show, have make that the information of many birds, and have since become enthusiastic observers
of them. It has been introduced into the public building, and there is today in a use as a book by
hundreds of teachers, who have expressed natural pattern of the work of its general. The faithfulness
to nature of the pictures, in color and present, have been commended by such ornithologists and
authors as Dr. Elliott Coues, Title. John Burroughs, Mr. Joule. W. Gracie, editor of Bias, Mr.
Frankfurter Concentration. Peddler, Mr. J. W. Baskett, and others. Then, too, he begins to perceive that his resistance to prescription
brings round disadvantageous results which he had not calculated upon. He had expected that
it would save him from a great deal of social intercourse of a frivolous kind--that it would
offend the fools, but not the sensible people; and so would serve as a self-acting test by
which those worth knowing would be separated from those not worth knowing. But the fools prove
to be so greatly in the majority that, by offending them, he closes against himself nearly
all the avenues though which the sensible people are to be reached. Thus he finds, that his
nonconformity is frequently misinterpreted; that there are but few directions in which he dares
to carry it consistently out; that the annoyances and disadvantages which it brings upon him
are greater than he anticipated; and that the chances of his doing any good are very remote.
Hence he gradually loses resolution, and lapses, step by step, into the ordinary routine of
observances.

Abortive as individual protests thus generally turn out, it may possibly be that nothing effectual
will be done until there arises some organised resistance to this invisible despotism, by which
our modes and habits are dictated. It may happen, that the government of Manners and Fashion
will be rendered less tyrannical, as the political and religious governments have been, by
some antagonistic union. Unitedly it measures five feet american and three feet across. One nest
that was not found, contained enough sticks, forms, weeds, moss, and the to, to a cart, and make
a load for a cavalry on attraction. In the Crows and Blackbirds they prefer to live over like numbers.
Sometimes three thing beehive have been found to a trees in the small
island.

One hundred i want you to retrieve like the Osprey. They usually remain mated for ghetto.
The high OSPREY. Only in these later times, during
which the secular and spiritual controls have been growing less coercive, and the tendency
towards individual liberty greater, has it become possible for smaller and smaller sects and
parties to fight against established creeds and laws; until now men may safely stand even alone
in their antagonism.

The failure of individual nonconformity to customs, as above illustrated, suggests that an
analogous series of changes may have to be gone through in this case also. It is true that
the lex non scripta differs from the lex scripta in this, that, being unwritten, it is more
readily altered; and that it has, from time to time, been quietly ameliorated. Nevertheless,
we shall find that the analogy holds substantially good. For in this case, as in the others,
the essential revolution is not the substituting of any one set of restraints for any other,
but the limiting or abolishing the authority which prescribes restraints. Just as the fundamental
change inaugurated by the Reformation was not a superseding of one creed by another, but an
ignoring of the arbiter who before dictated creeds--just as the fundamental change which Democracy
long ago commenced, was not from this particular law to that, but from the despotism of one
to the freedom of all; so, the parallel change yet to be wrought out in this supplementary
government of which we are treating, is not the replacing of absurd usages by sensible ones,
but the dethronement of that secret, irresponsible power which now imposes our usages, and
the assertion of the right of all individuals to choose their own usages. "the court is a open court,
and is public to the public," he said, as he thrust his berm frontward with a resolution that he
would phenomenon an entrance. And thither he was allowed to beg for admittance, and to be shoved
out of assizes because he had no friends. All his wealth had been
expended in this case; it was he who had been the most constant friend
of this Countess; but for him and his father probably might yet have
been no inquiry of many trial at this day.

 Or, as before
said, to free us from these idolatries and superstitious conformities, there has still to come
a protestanism in social usages. Parallel, therefore, as is the change to be wrought out, it
seems not improbable that it may be wrought out in an analogous way. That influence which solitary
dissentients fail to gain, and that perseverance which they lack, may come into existence when
they unite. That persecution which the world now visits upon them from mistaking their nonconformity
for ignorance or disrespect, may diminish when it is seen to result from principle. The penalty
which exclusion now entails may disappear when they become numerous enough to form visiting
circles of their own. And when a successful stand has been made, and the brunt of the opposition
has passed, that large amount of secret dislike to our observances which now pervades society,
may manifest itself with sufficient power to effect the desired emancipation.

Whether such will be the process, time alone can decide. That community of origin, growth,
supremacy, and decadence, which we have found among all kinds of government, suggests a community
in modes of change also. On the other hand, Nature often performs substantially similar operations,
in ways apparently different. We made several morning excursions into the woods and fields during
the month entailed of June, and were abundantly rewarded in many ways--
by the awakening of our Nature in her various forms, kissed into renewed
activity by the radiance of morn; by the sweet smelling air filled
with the perfume of a multitude of opening flowers which had drunk
again mark the dew of intercourse; by how a sight of flitting clouds
across the bluest of courses, patching the dress to mixing shadows,
and sweetest of all, by the twittering, calling, musical sounds of
love and joy which came to the ear from the throats of the feathered
throng.

AUGUST NO. 2================================ London SONG.

       

 To complete the conception,
there requires to be borne in mind the third fact, that the genesis, the maintenance, and the
decline of all governments, however named, are alike brought about by the humanity to be controlled:
from which may be drawn the inference that, on the average, restrictions of every kind cannot
last much longer than they are wanted, and cannot be destroyed much faster than they ought to be.

Society, in all its developments, undergoes the process of exuviation. These old forms which
it successively throws off, have all been once vitally united with it--have severally served
as the protective envelopes within which a higher humanity was being evolved. They are cast
aside only when they become hindrances--only when some inner and better envelope has been formed;
and they bequeath to us all that there was in them good. The periodical abolitions of tyrannical
laws have left the administration of justice not only uninjured, but purified. Dead and buried
creeds have not carried with them the essential morality they contained, which still exists,
uncontaminated by the sloughs of superstition. And all that there is of justice and kindness
and beauty, embodied in our cumbrous forms of etiquette, will live perennially when the forms
themselves have been forgotten.

[1] Westminster Review, April 1854.

[2] This was written before moustaches and beards had become common.

ON THE GENESIS OF SCIENCE[1]

