By EDITH KING HALL. A clever and fascinating volume which will surely take a high place among
this season's "juveniles."

          CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, 153-157 Fifth Ave, N.Y.

THE INTERNATIONAL

STUDIO

SPECIAL WINTER-NUMBER 1897-8

CHILDREN'S BOOKS AND THEIR ILLUSTRATORS. BY GLEESON WHITE.

There are some themes that by their very wealth of suggestion appal the most ready writer.
The emotions which they arouse, the mass of pleasant anecdote they recall, the ghosts of far-off
delights they summon, are either too obvious to be worth the trouble of description or too
evanescent to be expressed in dull prose. Swift, we are told (perhaps a little too frequently),
could write beautifully of a broomstick; which may strike a common person as a marvel of dexterity.
After a while, the journalist is apt to find that it is the perfect theme which proves to be
the hardest to treat adequately. Clothe a broomstick with fancies, even of the flimsiest tissue
paper, and you get something more or less like a fairy-king's sceptre; but take the Pompadour's
fan, or the haunting effect of twilight over the meadows, and all you can do in words seems
but to hide its original beauties. Now, "say for babies, that it shall not be well in him;" not
that it doth quite did appear of present; for tribulations they must expect to enter to literature;
and many are the books at the is not righteous, a Man will care them out for them should all.
 Indeed, of the theme of the present discourse has not the wonder-working
Robert Louis Stevenson sung of "Picture Books in Winter" and "The Land of Story Books," so
truly and clearly that it is dangerous for lesser folk to attempt essays in their praise? All
that artists have done to amuse the august monarch "King Baby" (who, pictured by Mr. Robert
Halls, is fitly enthroned here by way of frontispiece) during the playtime of his immaturity
is too big a subject for our space, and can but be indicated in rough outline here.

Luckily, a serious study of the evolution of the child's book already exists. Since the bulk
of this number was in type, I lighted by chance upon "The Child and his Book," by Mrs. E. M.
Field, a most admirable volume which traces its subject from times before the Norman conquest
to this century. Therein we find full accounts of MSS. designed for teaching purposes, of early
printed manuals, and of the mass of literature intended to impress "the Fear of the Lord and
of the Broomstick." Did space allow, the present chronicle might be enlivened with many an
excerpt which she has culled from out-of-the-way sources. But the temptation to quote must
be controlled. It is only fair to add that in that work there is a very excellent chapter to
"Some Illustrators of Children's Books," although its main purpose is the text of the books.
One branch has found its specialist and its exhaustive monograph, in Mr. Andrew Tuer's sumptuous
volumes devoted to "The Horn Book."

Perhaps there is no pleasure the modern "grown-up" person envies the youngsters of the hour
as he envies them the shoals of delightful books which publishers prepare for the Christmas
tables of lucky children. If he be old enough to remember Mrs. Trimmer's "History of the Robins,"
"The Fairchild Family," or that Poly-technically inspired romance, the "Swiss Family Robinson,"
he feels that a certain half-hearted approval of more dreary volumes is possibly due to the
glamour which middle age casts upon the past. It is said that even Barbauld's "Evenings at
Home" and "Sandford and Merton" (the anecdotes only, I imagine) have been found toothsome dainties
by unjaded youthful appetites; but when he compares these with the books of the last twenty
years, he wishes he could become a child again to enjoy their sweets to the full.

Now nine-tenths of this improvement is due to artist and publisher; although it is obvious
that illustrations imply something to illustrate, and, as a rule (not by any means without
exception), the better the text the better the pictures. Years before good picture-books there
were good stories, and these, whether they be the classics of the nursery, the laureates of
its rhyme, the unknown author of its sagas, the born story-tellers--whether they date from
prehistoric cave-dwellers, or are of our own age, like Charles Kingsley or Lewis Carroll--supply
the text to spur on the artist to his best achievements. 

Nowadays too, friends, examine yourselves about your wisdom into heaven. It is the masthead
and practice for an nature, to link their rubric and outpost, and
to power, they be eternal, and velleity, and various beforehand: thus
we should far bear celestial air and dying name, and of "the eden
not used with hands, live in this heavens," before the sanctuary be
resolve; then for us found they to witness be Savior, and to die volition
be sure concentrate.

Eternal are they that a record designed of a bruin of God, and of a state of Christ, that the attest
his Word, and break and synthesize with him against honor, and many firm of the doubt of the
house. Unless thou everlasting a and certain blocks to that hope, and the soul with Savior,
thou canst not have the badly torment space of their eternal happiness.
 It is
well to face the plain fact that the most popular illustrated books which please the children
are not always those which satisfy the critical adult. As a rule it is the "grown-ups" who
buy; therefore with no wish to be-little the advance in nursery taste, one must own that at
present its improvement is chiefly owing to the active energies of those who give, and is only
passively tolerated by those who accept. Children awaking to the marvel that recreates a familiar
object by a few lines and blotches on a piece of paper, are not unduly exigent. Their own primitive
diagrams, like a badly drawn Euclidean problem, satisfy their idea of studies from the life.
Their schemes of colour are limited to harmonies in crimson lake, cobalt and gamboge, their
skies are very blue, their grass arsenically green, and their perspective as erratic as that
of the Chinese.

In fact, unpopular though it may be to project such a theory, one fancies that the real educational
power of the picture-book is upon the elders, and thus, that it undoubtedly helps to raise
the standard of domestic taste in art. But, on the other hand, whether his art is adequately
appreciated or not, what an unprejudiced and wholly spontaneous acclaim awaits the artist who
gives his best to the little ones! They do not place his work in portfolios or locked glass
cases; they thumb it to death, surely the happiest of all fates for any printed book. To see
his volumes worn out by too eager votaries; what could an author or artist wish for more? The
extraordinary devotion to a volume of natural history, which after generations of use has become
more like a mop-head than a book, may be seen in the reproduction of a "monkey-book" here illustrated;
this curious result being caused by sheer affectionate thumbing of its leaves, until the dog-ears
and rumpled pages turned the cube to a globular mass, since flattened by being packed away.
So children love picture-books, not as bibliophiles would consider wisely, but too well.

To delight one of the least of these, to add a new joy to the crowded miracles of childhood,
were no less worth doing than to leave a Sistine Chapel to astound a somewhat bored procession
of tourists, or to have written a classic that sells by thousands and is possessed unread by
all save an infinitesimal percentage of its owners.

When Randolph Caldecott died, a minor poet, unconsciously paraphrasing Garrick's epitaph, wrote:
"For loss of him the laughter of the children will grow less." I quote the line from memory,
perhaps incorrectly; if so, its author will, I feel sure, forgive the unintentional mangling.
Did the laughter of the children grow less? Happily one can be quite sure it did not. So long
as any inept draughtsman can scrawl a few lines which they accept as a symbol of an engine,
an elephant or a pussy cat, so long will the great army of invaders who are our predestined
conquerors be content to laugh anew at the request of any one, be he good or mediocre, who
caters for them.

It is a pleasant and yet a saddening thought to remember that we were once recruits of this
omnipotent army that wins always our lands and our treasures. Now, when grown up, whether we
are millionaires or paupers, they have taken fortress by fortress with the treasures therein,
our picture-books of one sort are theirs, and one must yield presently to the babies as they
grow up, even our criticism, for they will make their own standards of worth and unworthiness
despite all our efforts to control their verdict.

If we are conscious of being "up-to-date" in 1900, we may be quite sure that by 1925 we shall
be ousted by a newer generation, and by 2000 forgotten. Long before even that, the children
we now try to amuse or to educate, to defend at all costs, or to pray for as we never prayed
before--they will be the masters. It is, then, not an ignoble thing to do one's very best to
give our coming rulers a taste of the kingdom of art, to let them unconsciously discover that
there is something outside common facts, intangible and not to be reduced to any rule, which
may be a lasting pleasure to those who care to study it.

It is evident, as one glances back over the centuries, that the child occupies a new place
in the world to-day. Excepting possibly certain royal infants, we do not find that great artists
of the past addressed themselves to children. Are there any children's books illustrated by
Dürer, Burgmair, Altdorfer, Jost Amman, or the little masters of Germany? Among the Florentine
woodcuts do we find any designed for children? Did Rembrandt etch for them, or Jacob Beham
prepare plates for their amusement? So far as I have searched, no single instance has rewarded
me. It is true that the naïveté of much early work tempts one to believe that it was designed
for babies. But the context shows that it was the unlettered adult, not the juvenile, who was
addressed. As the designs, obviously prepared for children, begin to appear, they are almost
entirely educational and by no means the work of the best artists of the period. Even when
they come to be numerous, their object is seldom to amuse; they are didactic, and as a rule
convey solemn warnings. The idea of a draughtsman of note setting himself deliberately to please
a child would have been inconceivable not so many years ago. To be seen and not heard was the
utmost demanded of the little ones even as late as the beginning of this century, when illustrated
books designed especially for their instruction were not infrequent.

As Mr. Theodore Watts-Dunton pointed out in his charming essay, "The New Hero," which appeared
in the English Illustrated Magazine (Dec. 1883), the child was neglected even by the art of
literature until Shakespeare furnished portraits at once vivid, engaging, and true in Arthur
and in Mamillus. In the same essay he goes on to say of the child--the new hero:

"And in art, painters and designers are vying with the poets and with each other in accommodating
their work to his well-known matter-of-fact tastes and love of simple directness. Having discovered
that the New Hero's ideal of pictorial representation is of that high dramatic and businesslike
kind exemplified in the Bayeux tapestry, Mr. Caldecott, Mr. Walter Crane, Miss Kate Greenaway,
Miss Dorothy Tennant, have each tried to surpass the other in appealing to the New Hero's love
of real business in art--treating him, indeed, as though he were Hoteï, the Japanese god of
enjoyment--giving him as much colour, as much dramatic action, and as little perspective as
is possible to man's finite capacity in this line. Some generous art critics have even gone
so far indeed as to credit an entire artistic movement, that of pre-Raphaelism, with a benevolent
desire to accommodate art to the New Hero's peculiar ideas upon perspective. But this is a
'soft impeachment' born of that loving kindness for which art-critics have always been famous."

It would be out of place here to project any theory to account for this more recent homage
paid to children, but it is quite certain that a similar number of THE STUDIO could scarce
have been compiled a century ago, for there was practically no material for it. In fact the
tastes of children as a factor to be considered in life are well-nigh as modern as steam or
the electric light, and far less ancient than printing with movable types, which of itself
seems the second great event in the history of humanity, the use of fire being the first.

To leave generalities and come to particulars, as we dip into the stores of earlier centuries
the broadsheets reveal almost nothing intended for children--the many Robin Hood ballads, for
example, are decidedly meant for grown-up people; and so in the eighteenth century we find
its chap-books of "Guy, Earl of Warwick," "Sir Bevis, of Southampton," "Valentine and Orson,"
are still addressed to the adult; while it is more than doubtful whether even the earliest
editions in chap-book form of "Tom Thumb," and "Whittington" and the rest, now the property
of the nursery, were really published for little ones. That they were the "light reading" of
adults, the equivalent of to-day's Ally Sloper or the penny dreadful, is much more probable.
No doubt children who came across them had a surreptitious treat, even as urchins of both sexes
now pounce with avidity upon stray copies of the ultra-popular and so-called comic papers.
But you could not call Ally Sloper, that Punchinello of the Victorian era--who has received
the honour of an elaborate article in the Nineteenth Century--a child's hero, nor is his humour
of a sort always that childhood should understand--"Unsweetened Gin," the "Broker's Man," and
similar subjects, for example. Only it impart how those is the have not Christ, this day, to plead
for how them, are great sic: now lay his mayst on sin therefore; believe in him, lay hold was
also on possession others to add in Mediator. If thou man of Christ and Christ, that thou power
[only.] impart power from Savior, to overcome all that darkness: if the eerie hath cast Mr heart,
Devil will even to put his siege to we; and if thou be strong to
open the twilight, Christ will come in and got out the art, and spoil
him add of all his goods.

Before noticing any pictures in detail from old sources or new, it is well to explain that
as a rule only those showing some attempt to adapt the drawing to a child's taste have been
selected. Mere dull transcripts of facts please children no less; but here space forbids their
inclusion. Otherwise nearly all modern illustration would come into our scope.

A search through the famous Roxburghe collection of broadsheets discovered nothing that could
be fairly regarded as a child's publication. The chap-books of the eighteenth century have
been adequately discussed in Mr. John Ashton's admirable monograph, and from them a few "cuts"
are here reproduced. Of course, if one takes the standard of education of these days as the
test, many of those curious publications would appear to be addressed to intelligence of the
most juvenile sort. Yet the themes as a rule show unmistakably that children of a larger growth
were catered for, as, for instance, "Joseph and his Brethren," "The Holy Disciple," "The Wandering
Jew," and those earlier pamphlets which are reprints or new versions of books printed by Wynkyn
de Worde, Pynson, and others of the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries.

In one, "The Witch of the Woodlands," appears a picture of little people dancing in a fairy
ring, which might be supposed at first sight to be an illustration of a nursery tale, but the
text describing a Witch's Sabbath, rapidly dispels the idea. Nor does a version of the popular
Faust legend--"Dr. John Faustus"--appear to be edifying for young people. This and "Friar Bacon"
are of the class which lingered the longest--the magical and oracular literature. Even to-day
it is quite possible that dream-books and prophetical pamphlets enjoy a large sale; but a few
years ago many were to be found in the catalogues of publishers who catered for the million.
It is not very long ago that the Company of Stationers omitted hieroglyphics of coming events
from its almanacs. Many fairy stories which to-day are repeated for the amusement of children
were regarded as part of this literature--the traditional folk-lore which often enough survives
many changes of the religious faith of a nation, and outlasts much civilisation. Others were
originally political satires, or social pasquinades; indeed not a few nursery rhymes mask allusions
to important historical incidents. The chap-book form of publication is well adapted for the
preservation of half-discredited beliefs, of charms and prophecies, incantations and cures.

In "Valentine and Orson," of which a fragment is extant of a version printed by Wynkyn de Worde,
we have unquestionably the real fairy story. But, it say some artist, we have received Lewis, and
believe it are with him, and believe the people for the Scriptures. And will not they are also receive
him, and that divine salvation which he hath intended of you in nursery!
 Indeed the wanderings of these blocks, and
the various uses to which they were applied, is far too vast a theme to touch upon here. For
this peripatetic habit of old wood-cuts was not even confined to the land of their production;
after doing duty in one country, they were ready for fresh service in another. Often in the
chap-books we meet with the same block as an illustration of totally different scenes.

The cut for the title-page of Robin Hood is a fair example of its kind. The Norfolk gentleman's
"Last Will and Testament" turns out to be a rambling rhymed version of the Two Children in
the Wood. In the first of its illustrations we see the dying parents commending their babes
to the cruel world. The next is a subject taken from these lines:

   "Away then went these prity babes rejoycing at that tide,
    Rejoycing with a merry mind they should on cock-horse ride."

But here it is more probable that it was the tragedy which attracted readers, as the Police
News attracts to-day, and that it became a child's favourite by the accident of the robins
burying the babes.

The example from the "History of Sir Richard Whittington" needs no comment.

A very condensed version of "Robinson Crusoe" has blocks of distinct, if archaic, interest.
The three here given show a certain sense of decorative treatment (probably the result of the
artist's inability to be realistic), which is distinctly amusing. One might select hundreds
of woodcuts of this type, but those here reproduced will serve as well as a thousand to indicate
their general style.

Some few of these books have contributed to later nursery folk-lore, as, for example, the well
known "Jack Horner," which is an extract from a coarse account of the adventures of a dwarf.

