Never had he been heard of since he left, hard heart; though he might have guessed a mother's
sorrow, and was not far away, and often lingered near the house in strange disguises. It would
have been easy for him, in some clever way or other, latch-key and all, to have gained access
to her, and comforted her, and given her some real proof, that all the love she had shed on
him had not been utterly thrown away; but he didn't--he didn't; and I know not of a darker
trait in Julian's whole career; he was insensible to love--a mother's love.

For love is the weapon which Omnipotence reserved to conquer rebel man; when all the rest had
failed. Reason he parries; Fear he answers blow to blow; future interest he meets with present
pleasure; but Love, that sun against whose melting beams the Winter cannot stand, that soft-subduing
slumber which wrestles down the giant, there is not one human creature in a million--not a
thousand men in all earth's huge quintillion, whose clay-heart is hardened against love.

Yet was Julian one of those select ones; an awful instance of that possible, that actual, though
happily that scarcest of all characters, a man,

        "Black, with no virtue, and a thousand crimes."

The amiable villain--one whose generosity redeems his guilt, whose kindliness outweighs his
folly, or whose beauty charms the eye to overlook his baseness--this too common hero is an
object, an example fraught with perilous interest. Charles Duval, the polite; Paul Clifford,
the handsome; Richard Turpin, brave and true; Jack Sheppard, no ignoble mind and loving still
his mother; these, and such as these, with Schiller's 'Robbers' and the like, are dangerous
to gaze on, as Germany, if not England too, remembers well. But, not more true to life, though
far less common to be met with, is Julian's incorrigible mind: one, in whose life are no white
days; one, on whose heart are no bright spots; when Heaven's pity spoke to him, he ridiculed;
as, when His threatenings thundered, he defied. Of this world only, and tending to a worse
appetite was all he lived for: and the core of appetite is iron selfishness.

The filched cash-box proved to be too well-filled for him to trouble himself with thinking
of his mother yet awhile: and his smuggling acquaintances, a rough-featured, blasphemous crew,
set him as their chief, so long as he swore loudest, drank deepest, and had money at command.
He hid the money, that they should not secretly steal from him that to which he owed his bad
supremacy; and his double-barrels, shotted to the muzzle, were far too formidable for any hope
of getting at it by open brute force. Nevertheless, they were "fine high-spirited" fellows
those, bold, dark men, of Julian's own kidney; who toasted in their cups each other's crimes,
and the ghost or two that ought to have been haunting them.

CHAPTER XXIII.

CONVALESCENCE.

VERY slowly did Emily recover, for the blow had been more than she could bear: nothing but
religion gave her any chance at all: and the phials, blisterings, bleedings, would have been
in vain, in vain--she must have died long ago--had it not been for the remembrance of God's
love, resignation to His will, and trust in the wisdom of his Providence. But these specific
remedies gradually brought her round, while the kind-eyed doctors praised their own prescriptions:
and after many rallyings and relapses, delirious ramblings, and intervals of hallowed Christian
peace, the eye of Love's meek martyr brightened up once more, and health flushed again upon
her cheek.

