'Hoist them children up here, that's a good fellow,' he said to a man who was standing by idle;
and in a few seconds more they were riding triumphantly along Fleet Street in such a thrill
and flutter of delight as Meg's heart had never felt before, while Robin forgot his sorrows,
and cheered on the horses with all the power of his shrill voice.  The dray put them down at
about half a mile from Angel Court, while it was still broad daylight, and Robin was no longer
tired.  Meg changed her last half-crown, and spent sixpence of it lavishly in the purchase
of some meat pies, upon which they feasted sumptuously, in the shelter of a doorway leading
to the back of a house.

CHAPTER V

Little Meg's Neighbour

When their feast was over, the children sauntered on slowly, not wishing to enter Angel Court
till it was dark enough for Robin's and baby's finery to pass by unseen; but as soon as it
was dark they turned out of the main thoroughfare into the dingy streets more familiar to them.
As they entered the house Meg heard the deep gruff voice of Mr Grigg calling to her, and she
went into his room, trembling, and holding the baby very tightly in her arms.  It was a small
room, the same size as their own attic, and the litter and confusion throughout made it impossible
to go in more than a step or two.  Mr Grigg was seated at a stained wooden table, upon which
stood two large cups and a black bottle of gin, with a letter lying near to Mr Grigg's large
and shaking hand.  Coming in from the fresh air of the night, Meg coughed a little with the
mingled fumes of gin and tobacco; but she coughed softly for fear of giving offence.

'Here's a letter come for your mother, little Meg,' said Mr Grigg, seizing it eagerly, 'I'll
read it to you if you like.'

'Oh no, thank you, sir,' answered Meg quickly; 'father's coming home, and he'll read it to-morrow
morning.  His ship's in the river, and it'll be in dock to-night for certain.  So he'll be
home to-morrow.'

Upon hearing this news Mr Grigg thought it best to deliver up the letter to Meg, but he did
it so reluctantly that she hurried away lest he should reclaim it.  Robin was already halfway
upstairs, but she soon overtook him, and a minute afterwards reached their own door.  She was
about to put the baby down to take out the key, when, almost without believing her own eyes,
she saw that it was in the lock, and that a gleam of firelight shone through the chinks of
the door.  Meg lifted the latch with a beating heart, and looked in before venturing to enter.
The fire was lighted, but there seemed to be no other disturbance or change in the attic since
the morning, except that in her mother's low chair upon the hearth there sat a thin slight
woman, like her mother, with the head bowed down, and the face hidden in the hands.  Meg paused,
wonder-stricken and speechless, on the door-sill; but Robin ran forward quickly, with a glad
shout of 'Mother! mother!'

At the sound of Robin's step and cry the woman lifted up her face.  It was a white, thin face,
but younger than their mother's, though the eyes were red and sunken, as if with many tears,
and there was a gloom upon it, as if it had never smiled a happy smile.  Meg knew it in an
instant as the face of the tenant of the back attic, who had been in jail for six weeks, and
her eye searched anxiously the dark corner under the bed, where the box was hidden.  It seemed
quite safe and untouched, but still Meg's voice was troubled as she spoke.

'I thought I'd locked up all right,' she said, stepping into the room, while Robin took refuge
behind her, and regarded the stranger closely from his place of safety.

'Ay, it was all right,' answered the girl, 'only you see my key 'd unlock it; and I felt cold
and low coming out of jail to-day; and I'd no coal, nor bread, nor nothing.  So I came in here,
and made myself comfortable.  Don't you be crusty, little Meg.  You'd be the same if you'd
been locked up for six weeks.  I wish I were dead, I do.'

The girl spoke sadly, and dropped her head again upon her hands, while Meg stood in the middle
of the floor, not knowing what to do or say. She sat down after a while upon the bedstead,
and began taking off the baby's things, pondering deeply all the time what course of action
she ought to follow.  She could place herself so as to conceal completely the box under the
bed; but if the girl's key would unlock her attic door, how was she ever to leave it for a
moment in safety?  Then the thought flashed across her that father would be at home to-morrow,
and she would no longer have to take care of the hidden treasure.  In the meantime Robin had
stolen up to the stranger's side, and after closely considering her for some moments, he stroked
her hand with his own small fingers.

'I thought you were mother, I did,' he said.  'It's my birthday to-day.'

For one instant the girl looked at him with a smile in her sunken eyes, and then she lifted
him on to her lap, and laid her face upon his curly head, sobbing bitterly.

'Little Meg,' she said, 'your mother spoke kind to me once, and now she's dead and gone.  I
wonder why I wasn't took instead o' her?'

Meg's tender heart closed itself no longer against the stranger.  She got up from her seat,
and crossing the floor to the fireside, she put the baby down by Robin on her lap.

'You didn't ought to go into a person's room without asking leave,' she said; 'but if you'll
hold baby for me, I'll soon get tea.  I've got a little real tea left, and father 'll buy some
more to-morrow.  You mind the children till it's ready.'

It was soon ready, and they drank and ate together, with few words. Meg was intent upon getting
her weary children to bed as soon as possible, and after it was over she undressed them at
once.  Before Robin got into bed she addressed the girl hesitatingly.

'Robbie always says his prayers aloud to me,' she said; 'you won't mind, will you?'

'Go on,' answered the girl, with a sob.

'Robbie,' said Meg, as he knelt at her knee, with his hands held up between both her hands,
'Robbie, it's your birthday to-day; and if I was you I'd ask God for something more than other
days.  I'd ask Him to bless everybody as well as us if I was you.  If everybody was good, it'd
be so nice.'

'Yes, Meg,' replied Robin promptly, closing his black eyes before he began his prayer.  'Pray
God, bless father on the big sea, and bless me, and Meg, and baby, and take care of us all.
Pray God, bless everybody, 'cept the devil.  Amen.'

But Robin did not get up from his knees.  He dropped his head upon Meg's lap, and when she
moved he cried, 'Stop a minute!'  Meg waited patiently until he lifted up his face again, and
shutting his eyes very tightly, said, 'Pray God, bless everybody, and the devil, and make him
a good man.  Amen.'

'Robbie,' said Meg mournfully, 'I don't think the devil can be made good.  He doesn't want
to be good.  If anybody wants to be good, God can make 'em good, anybody in all the world;
but He won't if they don't want to.'

Robin was already half asleep, and gave little heed to Meg's words. She tucked him snugly into
his place beside baby, and stooping over them, kissed both their drowsy faces with a loving
and lingering tenderness.  Then she turned to the fire, and saw the strange girl there upon
her knees before her mother's chair, weeping again in a passion of tears.

CHAPTER VI

Little Meg's Last Money

'What's the matter with you?' asked Meg, laying her small rough hand upon the girl's head.

'Oh, Meg, Meg!' she cried, 'I do want to be good, and I can't.  You don't know how wicked I
am; but once I was a good little girl like you. And now I can never, never be good again.'

'Yes, you can,' answered little Meg, 'if you ask God.'

'You don't know anything about it,' she said, pushing away Meg's hand.

'I don't know much,' replied Meg meekly; 'but Jesus says in the Bible, that if our fathers
'll give us good things, God 'll much more give good things to anybody as asks for 'em.'

'But I'm too bad to ask Him,' said the girl.

'I don't know what's to be done, then,' answered Meg.  'The Bible says, "Those that ask Him";
and if you are too bad to ask Him, I suppose He won't give you any good things.'

The girl made no reply, but crouching down upon the hearth at Meg's feet, she sat looking into
the fire with the expression of one who is thinking deeply.  Meg too was silent for a time,
smiling now and then as she recollected that father would be at home to-morrow.

'I don't know what you're called,' said Meg, after a very long silence.

'Oh, they call me Kitty, and Puss, and Madcap, and all sorts o' names,' answered the girl,
with a deep sigh.

'But that's not your christen name?' said Meg.

'No,' she replied.

'What does your mother call you?' asked Meg.

For a moment little Meg was terrified, for the girl seized her hands in a strong and painful
grasp, and her red eyes flamed with anger; but she loosed her hold gradually, and then, in
a choking voice, she said, 'Don't you never speak to me about my mother!'

'Have you got any money, Kitty?' inquired Meg, by way of turning the conversation.

'Not a rap,' said Kitty, laughing hoarsely.

'I've got two shillings left,' continued Meg, 'and I'll give you one; only, if you please,
you mustn't come into my room again, at least till father's at home.  I promised mother not
to let anybody at all come here.  You'll not be angry, will you?'

'No, I'm not angry,' said Kitty gently, 'and you must always do what your mother told you,
little Meg.  She spoke kind to me once, she did. So I'll go away now, dear, and never come
in again: but you wouldn't mind me listening at the door when Robbie's saying his prayers sometimes?'

'No,' answered Meg; 'and you may listen when I read up loud, if you like.  I always read something
afore I go to bed, and I'll speak up loud enough for you to hear.'

'I'll listen,' said Kitty, standing up to go to her own dark, cold attic, and looking round
sadly at Meg's tidy room, all ready as it was for her father's arrival.  'I suppose you'd not
mind me kissing the children afore I go?'

'Oh no,' said Meg, going with her to the bedside, and looking down fondly upon the children's
sleeping faces.  The baby's pale small face wore a smile upon it, as did Robin's also, for
he was dreaming of the gardens he had visited on his birthday.  The girl bent over them, but
she drew back without kissing them, and with a sharp painful tone in her voice she said, 'I
wish I was dead, I do.'

CHAPTER VII

Little Meg's Disappointment

If Meg had been up early on Robin's birthday, she was out of bed and about her preparations
still earlier the next morning.  She had time to go over again most of her brushing and rubbing
of the scanty furniture before the children awoke.  She reached out all their best clothes,
and her own as well, for she did not intend to go down to the docks to meet her father, but
thought it would be best to wait at home for his arrival.  Her hands were full, and her thoughts
also, for some time; and it was not till the nearest clock struck eleven that she could consider
all her preparations completed.

When all her work was done, Meg helped Robin up to the window-sill, and climbed after him herself
to the perilous seat, with the baby held fast upon her lap.  It was the first time the baby
had been allowed to occupy this dangerous place, and for the first few minutes Meg was not
without her fears; but it was weary and languid this morning, and sat quite still upon her
lap, with its little head resting upon her shoulder, and its grave eyes looking out inquiringly
upon the strange world in which it found itself.  Meg and Robin watched every man who entered
the court; and every now and then Robin would clap his hands, and shout loudly, 'Father, father!'
making Meg's arms tremble, and her heart beat fast with expectation.  But it was nine months
since he had gone away, and Robin had almost forgotten him, so that it always proved not to
be her father.  Hour after hour passed by, and Meg cut up the last piece of bread for the children
and herself, and yet he never came; though they stayed faithfully at their post, and would
not give up looking for him as long as the daylight lasted.  But the night drew near at last,
an early night, for it was the first day in November, and London fogs grow thick then; and
Meg kindled the fire again, and sat down by it, unwilling to undress the children before he
came.  So she sat watching and waiting, until the baby fell into a broken, sobbing slumber
on her lap, and Robin lay upon the floor fast asleep.

At length Meg resolved to lay the children in bed, dressed as they were, and steal down herself
to the docks, under the shelter of the fog, to see if she could learn any news of the Ocean
King.  She drew the old shawl over her head, which well covered her red frock, and taking off
her shoes and stockings--for father would not miss them in the night--she crept unseen and
unheard down the dark staircase, and across the swarming, noisy court.  The fog was growing
thicker every minute, yet she was at no loss to find her way, so familiar it was to her.  But
when she reached the docks, the darkness of the night, as well as that of the fog, hid from
her the presence of her good-natured friend, if indeed he was there.  There were strange noises
and rough voices to be heard, and from time to time the huge figure of some tall man appeared
to her for an instant in the gloom, and vanished again before little Meg could find courage
to speak to him.  She drew back into a corner, and peered eagerly, with wistful eyes, into
the thick yellow mist which hid everything from them, while she listened to the clank of iron
cables, and the loud sing-song of the invisible sailors as they righted their vessels.  If
she could only hear her father's voice among them!  She felt sure she should know it among
a hundred others, and she was ready to cry aloud the moment it reached her ears--to call 'Father!'
and he would be with her in an instant, and she in his arms, with her own clasped fast about
his neck.  Oh, if he would but speak out of the darkness!  Meg's keen eyes grew dim with tears,
and her ears seemed to become dull of hearing, from the very longing to see and hear more clearly.
But she rubbed away the tears with her shawl, and pushed the tangled hair away behind her small
ears, and with her hands pressed against her heart, to deaden its throbbing, she leaned forward
to pierce, if possible, through the thick dark veil which separated her from her father.

She had been there a long time when the thought crossed her, that perhaps after all he had
been knocking at the door at home, and trying to open it; waking up the children, and making
them cry and scream with terror at finding themselves quite alone.  She started up to hurry
away; but at that moment a man came close by, and in the extremity of her anxiety Meg stopped him.

'Please,' she said earnestly, 'is the Ocean King come in yet?'

'Ay,' was the answer.  'Came in last night, all right and tight.'

'Father must be come home, then,' thought Meg, speeding away swiftly and noiselessly with her
bare feet along the streets to Angel Court. She glanced up anxiously to her attic window, which
was all in darkness, while the lower windows glimmered with a faint light from within.  The
landlord's room was full of a clamorous, quarrelling crew of drunkards; and Meg's spirit sank
as she thought--suppose father had been up to their attic, and finding it impossible to get
in at once, had come down, and begun to drink with them!  She climbed the stairs quickly, but
all was quiet there; and she descended again to hang about the door, and listen, and wait;
either to discover if he was there, or to prevent him turning in when he did come.  Little
Meg's heart was full of a woman's heaviest care and anxiety, as she kept watch in the damp
and the gloom of the November night, till even the noisy party within broke up, and went their
way, leaving Angel Court to a brief season of quietness.

Meg slept late in the morning, but she was not disturbed by any knock at the door.  Robin had
crept out of bed and climbed up alone to the window-sill, where fortunately the window was
shut and fastened; and the first thing Meg's eyes opened upon was Robin sitting there, in the
tumbled clothes in which he had slept all night.  The morning passed slowly away in mingled
hope and fear; but no step came up the ladder to their door, and Kitty had gone out early in
the morning, before Meg was awake.  She spent her last shilling in buying some coal and oatmeal;
and then, because it was raining heavily, she stationed herself on the topmost step of the
stairs, with Robin and baby, waiting with ever-growing dread for the long-delayed coming of
her father.

It was growing dark again before any footstep came further than the landing below, and then
it was a soft, stealthy, slipshod step, not like the strong and measured tread of a man.  It
was a woman who climbed the steep ladder, and Meg knew it could be no one else but Kitty. 
The girl sat down on the top step beside them, and took Robin upon her lap.

'What are you all doing out here, little Meg?' she said, in a low, gentle voice, which Meg
could scarcely believe to be the same as that which had sometimes frightened her by its shrill
shrieks of drunken merriment.

'We're looking for father,' she answered weariedly.  'He's never come yet, and I've spent all
my money, and we've got no candles.'

'Meg,' said Kitty, 'I can pay you back the shilling you gave me on Tuesday night.'

'But you mustn't come into our room, if you do,' answered Meg.

'No, no, I'll not come in,' said she, pressing a shilling into Meg's hand.  'But why hasn't
father come home?'

'I don't know,' sobbed Meg.  'His ship came in the night of Robbie's birthday, that's two days
ago; and he's never come yet.'

'The ship come in!' repeated Kitty, in a tone of surprise.  'What's the name o' the ship, Meg?'

'Father's ship's the Ocean King,' said Robin proudly.

'I'll hunt him up,' cried Kitty, rising in haste.  'I'll find him, if he's anywhere in London.
I know their ways, and where they go to, when they come ashore, little Meg.  Oh!  I'll hunt
him out.  You put the children to bed, dear; and then you sit up till I come back, if it's
past twelve o'clock, I'll bring him home, alive or dead.  Don't cry no more, little Meg.'

She called softly up the stairs to say these last words, for she had started off immediately.
Meg did as she had told her, and then waited with renewed hope for her return.  It was past
midnight before Kitty tapped quietly at the door, and she went out to her on the landing. But
Kitty was alone, and Meg could hardly stand for the trembling which came upon her.

'Haven't you found father?' she asked.

'I've found out where he is,' answered Kitty.  'He's at the other end of the world, in hospital.
He was took bad a-coming home--so bad, they was forced to leave him behind them; and he'll
work his way back when he's well enough, so Jack says, one of his mates.  He says he may come
back soon, or come back late, and that's all he knows about him.  What shall you do, little Meg?'

'Mother said I was to be sure to take care of the children till father comes home,' she answered,
steadying her voice; 'and I'll do it, please God.  I can ask Him to help me, and He will. 
He'll take care of us.'

'He hasn't took care o' me,' said Kitty bitterly.

'May be you haven't asked Him,' said Meg.

Kitty was silent for a minute, and then she spoke in a voice half choked with sobs.

'It's too late now,' she said, 'but He'll take care of you, never fear; and oh!  I wish He'd
let me help Him.  I wish I could do something for you, little Meg; for your mother spoke kind
to me once, and made me think of my own mother.  There, just leave me alone, will you?  I'm
off to bed now, and you go to bed too.  I'll help you all I can.'

She pushed Meg back gently into her attic, and closed the door upon her; but Meg heard her
crying and moaning aloud in her own room, until she herself fell asleep.

CHAPTER VIII

Little Meg's Red Frock in Pawn

Meg felt very forlorn when she opened her heavy eyelids the next morning.  It was certain now
that her father could not be home for some time, it might be a long time; and how was she to
buy bread for her children and herself?  She took down her mother's letter from the end of
a shelf which supplied the place of a chimney-piece, and looked at it anxiously; but she dared
not ask anybody to read it for her, lest it should contain some mention of the money hidden
in the box; and that must be taken care of in every way, because it did not belong to her,
or father even, but to one of his mates.  She had no friend to go to in all the great city.
Once she might have gone to the teacher at the school where she had learned to read a little;
but that had been in quite a different part of London, on the other side of the river, and
they had moved from it before her father had started on his last voyage.  Meg sat thinking
and pondering sadly enough, until suddenly, how she did not know, her fears were all taken
away, and her childish heart lightened.  She called Robin, and bade him kneel down beside her,
and folding baby's hands together, she closed her own eyes, and bowed her head, while she asked
God for the help He had promised to give.

'Pray God,' said little Meg, 'You've let mother die, and father be took bad at the other side
of the world, and there's nobody to take care of us 'cept You, and Jesus says, if we ask You,
You'll give us bread and everything we want, just like father and mother.  Pray God, do!  I'm
not a grown-up person yet, and Robin's a very little boy, and baby can't talk or walk at all;
but there's nobody else to do anythink for us, and we'll try as hard as we can to be good.
Pray God, bless father at the other side of the world, and Robbie, and baby, and me; and bless
everybody, for Jesus Christ's sake.  Amen.'

Meg rose from her knees joyfully, feeling sure that her prayer was heard and would be answered.
She went out with her children to lay out the shilling Kitty had returned to her the day before;
and when they come in she and Robin sat down to a lesson in reading.  The baby was making a
pilgrimage of the room from chair to chair, and along the bedstead; but all of a sudden she
balanced herself steadily upon her tiny feet, and with a scream of mingled dread and delight,
which made Meg and Robin look up quickly, she tottered across the open floor to the place where
they were sitting, and hid her face in Meg's lap, quivering with joy and wonder.  Meg's gladness
was full, except that there was a little feeling of sorrow that neither father nor mother was
there to see it.

'Did God see baby walk?' inquired Robin.

'I should think He did!' said Meg confidently; and her slight sorrow fled away.  God could
not help loving baby, she felt sure of that, nor Robin; and if He loved them, would He not
take care of them Himself, and show her how to take care of them, till father was at home?
The day passed almost as happily as Robin's birthday; though the rain came down in torrents,
and pattered through the roof, falling splash, splash into the broken tub, with a sound something
like the fountain in Temple Gardens.

But when Kitty's shilling was gone to the last farthing, and not a spoonful of meal remained
in the bag, it was not easy to be happy. Robin and baby were both crying for food; and there
was no coal to make a fire, nor any candle to give them light during the long dark evenings
of November.  Kitty was out all day now, and did not get home till late, so Meg had not seen
her since the night she had brought the news about her father.  But a bright thought came to
her, and she wondered at herself for not having thought of it before.  She must pawn her best
clothes; her red frock and bonnet with green ribbons.  There was a natural pang at parting
with them, even for a time; but she comforted herself with the idea that father would get them
back for her as soon as he returned.  She reached them out of the box, feeling carefully lest
she should take any of Robin's or the baby's by mistake in the dark; and then she set off with
her valuable bundle, wondering how many shillings she would get for them, and whether she could
make the money last till her father came.  The pawnbroker's shop was a small, dingy place in
Rosemary Lane; and it, and the rooms above it, were as full as they could be with bundles such
as poor Meg carried under her old shawl.  A single gas-light was flaring away in the window,
and a hard-featured, sharp-eyed man was reading a newspaper behind the counter.  Meg laid down
her bundle timidly, and waited till he had finished reading his paragraph; after which he opened
it, spread out the half-worn frock, and held up the bonnet on his fist, regarding them both
with a critical and contemptuous eye.  Some one else had entered the shop, but Meg was too
absorbed and too anxious to take any heed of it  The pawnbroker rolled the frock up scornfully,
and gave it a push towards her.

'Tenpence for the two,' he said, looking back at his newspaper.

'Oh! if you please,' cried little Meg, in an agony of distress, 'you must give me more than
tenpence.  I've got two little children, and no bread, nor coals, nor candles.  I couldn't
buy scarcely anythink with only tenpence.  Indeed, indeed, my red frock's worth a great deal
more; it's worth I don't know how many shillings.'

'You go home, little Meg,' said Kitty's voice behind her, 'and I'll bring you three shillings
for the frock, and one for the bonnet; four for the two.  Mr Sloman's an old friend o' mine,
he is; and he'll oblige you for my sake.  There, you run away, and I'll manage this little
bit o' business for you.'

Meg ran away as she was told, glad enough to leave her business with Kitty.  By-and-by she
heard her coming upstairs, and went out to meet her.  Kitty placed four shillings in her hand.

'Meg,' she said, 'you let me do that sort o' work for you always. They'll cheat you ever so;
but I wouldn't, not to save my life, if you'll only trust me.  You ask me another time.  Is
that the way God takes care of you?'

'He does take care of me,' answered Meg, with a smile; 'or may be you wouldn't have come into
the shop just now, and I should have got only tenpence.  I suppose that's taking care of me,
isn't it?'

'I don't know,' said Kitty.  'Only let me do that for you when you want it done again.'

It was not very long before it wanted to be done again; and then Meg by daylight went through
the contents of the box, choosing out those things which could best be spared, but leaving
Robin's and baby's fine clothes to the last.  She clung to these with a strong desire to save
them, lest it should happen that her father came home too poor to redeem them.  The packet
of money, tied up and sealed, fell at last to the bottom of the almost empty box, and rolled
noisily about whenever it was moved, but no thought of taking any of it entered into Meg's
head.  She was almost afraid of looking at it herself, lest the secret of it being there should
get known in Angel Court; and whenever she mentioned it in her prayers, which she did every
night, asking God to take care of it, she did not even whisper the words, much less speak them
aloud, as she did her other requests, but she spoke inwardly only, for fear lest the very walls
themselves should hear her.  No one came near her attic, except Kitty, and she kept her promise
faithfully. Since the four bearers had carried away her mother's coffin, and since the night
Kitty came out of jail, the night of Robin's birthday, no stranger's foot had crossed the door-sill.

But November passed, and part of December, and Meg's stock of clothes, such as were of any
value at the pawn-shop, was almost exhausted.  At the end of the year the term for which her
father had paid rent in advance would be over, and Mr Grigg might turn her and her children
out into the streets.  What was to be done?  How was she to take care of Robin, and baby, and
the money belonging to one of father's mates?

CHAPTER IX

Little Meg's Friends in Need

These were hard times for little Meg.  The weather was not severely cold yet, or the children
would have been bitterly starved up in their cold attic, where Meg was obliged to be very careful
of the coal.  All her mother's clothes were in pledge now, as well as her own and Robin's;
and it seemed as if it would soon come to pawning their poor bed and their scanty furniture.
Yet Meg kept up a brave spirit, and, as often as the day was fine enough, took her children
out into the streets, loitering about the cook-shops, where the heat from the cellar kitchens
lent a soothing warmth to their shivering bodies.

About the middle of December the first sharp frost set in, and Meg felt herself driven back
from this last relief.  She had taken the children out as usual, but she had no shoes to put
on their feet, and nothing but their thin old rags to clothe them with.  Robin's feet were
red and blue with cold, like her own; but Meg could not see her own, and did not feel the cold
as much for them as for Robin's.  His face had lost a little of its roundness and freshness,
and his black eyes some of their brightness since his birthday; and poor Meg's heart bled at
the sight of him as he trudged along the icy pavement of the streets at her side. There was
one cook-shop from which warm air and pleasant odours came up through an iron grating, and
Meg hurried on to it to feel its grateful warmth; but the shutters of the shop were not taken
down, and the cellar window was unclosed.  Little Meg turned away sadly, and bent her bare
and aching feet homewards again, hushing baby, who wailed a pitiful low wail in her ears. 
Robin, too, dragged himself painfully along, for he had struck his numbed foot against a piece
of iron, and the wound was bleeding a little.  They had turned down a short street which they
had often passed through before, at the end of which was a small shop, displaying in its window
a few loaves of bread, and some bottles containing different kinds of sweetmeats, such as they
had indulged in sometimes in the palmy days when father was at home.  The door was divided
in the middle, and the lower half was closed, while the upper stood open, giving a full view
of the shop within.  Meg's old brown bonnet just rose above the top of the closed half, and
her wistful face turned for a moment towards the tempting sight of a whole shelf full of loaves;
but she was going on slowly, when a kindly voice hailed her from the dark interior.

'Hollo, little woman!' it shouted, 'I haven't set eyes on you this many a day.  How's Robbie
and baby.'

'They're here, sir, thank you,' answered Meg, in a more womanly way than ever, for she felt
very low to-day.  'We're only doing middling, thank you, sir.'

