 Only
60 per cent of the state is forested, mainly with pine trees. The main rivers are the Great Pedee
(Yadkin), Santee, Ashley, Edisto, and Savannah, the border river to Georgia. The mean Annual temperature
ranges between 15 and 20 ° C., and there are 1200 to 1500 mm of rain. S. has an area of ​​78.616
square km (1609.4 sq.m.) with (1880) 995.577 inhabitants, among which 604.332 color. The Schools
were visited in 1886 by 183.966 children, 21 percent of whites and over 10 years old 78 per
cent of the colored people are ignorant of the letter. exist at higher education institutions
9 Colleges with 1,075 students. Agriculture employs 76 percent of the population, and 1,677,330 Hectares
are wholly of the culture. Will be built especially maize, rice (on the coast) and oats Sweet
potatoes, cotton (1880: 522.548 bales) and sugar. To cattle, there were 1880: 61.000 horses,
67.000 mules, 365 000 cattle, 119 000 628 000 sheep and pigs. The fishing industry 1880: 1005 persons
with 523 boats. Gold is recovered in the W., and also iron, copper and lead occur. Contrast,
china clay, building blocks and especially in major phosphorites Quantities produced and the
production of artificial fertilizer on the same busy 1880: 9059 workers. Important nor the extraction
of tar and turpentine (4619 workers). Otherwise the industry is insignificant, but in 1880
there were already 14 cotton factories with 2018 workers. The state has (1886) 227 ships of 12.806
tone. Content and a railway network of 2772 km. The old constitution of 1775, was one of the
least democratic in 1868 by a new ones through which the colored people the rights of citizens
were presented. Legislative Power is exercised by a General Assembly, which consists of a Senate of
35 members and House of Representatives of 124 co-

421

South - Southern Cross.

is divided.

The governor and the higher officials are elected for two years by
the people.

The judges, the governor and the Assembly on 6 years. Receipts were 1885 1,065,001 dollars,
the national debt amounted to 1887: 6,399,742 Doll. Capital is Columbia, But the most important
city of Charleston. - S. formed since the separation of North Carolina 1729 (S. Carolina) a specific
colony and closed 1775 on the revolt against England, according whose victory it was a State
of the Union. In the 1861-65 civil war was one of the most zealous S. States of the Confederacy
of the South was in the last period of the same theater of war in 1865. The once well-ordered finances
have been completely by the war and the subsequent turmoil shattered, and the national debt had grown
in 1875 alleged the amount of 68 million marks, however, was actually far more.

South svw noon.

Suderode, village in the Prussian. Region Magdeburg, district Aschersleben in Gernrode, at the northern
foot the resin and to line-Frose Quedlinburg located in the Prussian State Railways, has a
Evangelical Church, a visited Bad (Beringer well, sd, 1887: 3364 spa guests) and (1885) 1189
inh See Reinhardt, Bad S. (Suderode 1881).

Süderoog, one of the North Frisian Islands Schleswig Wadden Sea, southwest of Pellworm.

Sudety (Sudeten mountain system), in the wider sense of the geographical name of a number on the
shape and geological characteristics very different mountain ranges and mountain groups, extending
from Elbdurchbruch in a southerly direction to extend to the draft, which the German mountains
of the Carpathians separated (see map "Silesia"). The length of this axis Rock mass is 340, the
width of 60-90 km. The high peaks and ridges rise to the part about the upper limit of the
pine region (1230 m) and also show respect to the design of the Summit and the valley margins,
such as the alpine vegetation character, while the rolling foothills cultivated good. The southeastern
part of this and most extensive mountain system is the Moravian-Silesian Mountains, consisting
of the Moravian-Silesian dies (Gessénike) until to 777 m altitude, between the Oder and Bečva also means
mountain Or, as the south-eastern, Altvater and the mountains or the S. in the narrower sense,
in Altvater 1490 m high to the northwest Part. From Altvater spread the gradually sloping lines
to the south and SE., N. and NW. to the valleys of the Oder and Opava-like shine off by the northern
branch in the bishop's crest still rise 886 m high, but then in the lowlands of the upper or . Flatten
Northwest strikes a lateral tension to NE., The Hunsrück, which is only a short distance over
1000 m high and steep falls against the valley near Neisse Neisse. In the long axis of the
Rock mass to the NW. sweeps the Golden Mountains, with the Jauer Berg (882 m) until Warton to the
mountain (619 m), where the valley of the Glatzer Neisse (280-290 m) mountain range that limited.
From the junction of the Hunsrück to SW. runs along the Bohemian-Silesian Glatzer limit the Snow
Mountain, with the Great or mirror Glitter Snow Mountain (1424), then the southern end of
the county of Glatz Habelschwerdter Mountains, the coal mine (963 m), to NW. and separated from
it by the valley of the Heald, run the Bohemian combs or the Eagle Mountains, with the High Mense
(1085 m), nearly parallel. North of the latter Tip off a deeply incisive pass which at its northern
end through the marshy plateau the Seefeld (784 m) connected Habelschwerdter Bohemian mountains
and ridges, also combined Heald mountains called by the sharply defined sandstone plateau of
the Heuscheuer on whose wooded, 750-foot area rises the crest of the Great Heuscheuer (920
m). Next to NW. andres is a craggy sandstone plateau adršpašské Mountains (780 m). From the opening
of the Nysa at Warton, but against NW. extending in the longitudinal axis of the southern Sudetenzugs
the Owl Mountains, with the High Owl (1000 m), up to the Weistritz, and from the northern foothills
of the same increases the Zobten (718 m) up. Spreads west from the Weistritz a mountain landscape,
with the overall name of Lower Silesian coal mountains shall be identified in different parts
of Burger and also forest Schweidnitzer mountains, in high forest 840 forest in the saddle 778,
Heidelberg achieved in 954 m and. W. Bober until reaching the Katzbach Mountains (High Kullge 740 m) passes.
The significantly depressed and widened main ridge runs according to NW. About the band Mountain
(640 m) to the source continued Bober. This is followed by the South by N. to each other reihend
the raven mountains, forge ridge, the mountain forest (982 m), and the Home Huter comb, with
the stone frieze (800 m), all with large, dense wooded, rounded hilltops. Where the Raven and
the Forge Mountain ridge in the Border cottages meet, begins the Giant Mountains, the real high
mountains of the system, with the 1603 m high snow Koppe, parallel to the south of Bohemia comb
(Brunnberg 1502 m) pulls, and located in the NW. the Jizera Mountains, with the 1123 m high
Table spruce, followed. The end of the whole mountain system is the Lusatian Mountains, the
ridge 1013, in the Lausche 796 m high, which is next to the Neisse River and extends from the Saxon-Bohemian
border. From this as the last member of the whole mountain system, connect individual spurs,
including the volcanic country crown (432 m) in Görlitz, on Prussian territory over. For details,
see the individual articles.

Südfall, one of the North cried like islands in the Wadden Sea, Schleswig,
southeast of Pellworm.

Tropical fruits, from Southern Europe, mar. North Africa fresh, dry
or canned imported, the countries there peculiar types of fruits such
as oranges, lemons, dates, figs, Raisins, etc.

Brewhouse, which is
part of a beer brewery, in which the wort is boiled.

Südhollaud Province, 655th, see Holland, S.

Sudler, on mercenaries (sd) of the cooking; Sudlerin, the follower.

Southern Crown, Constellation, see Crown, p. 248

Southern continent,
s. Südpolarländer.

Southern Triangle constellation of the southern hemisphere, between Bird of Paradise, altar, ruler
and square, circle and Centaur, near the Milky Way, with a star second,
two third Size.

Southern Arctic, see Arctic, p. 487

Southern Cross, a small constellation of the southern hemisphere, in the narrowest part of the
Milky Way, the right of the dark region of the so-called. Kohl Sacks, located near the pole
of the ecliptic. It is formed by four bright stars that form in the corners

422

Southern Cross (Knights) - Südpolarländer.

a square are representing the diagonals of the cross, one arm of the latter to the end of the main
star of first magnitude is, is longer than the other (see figure). Already Vespucci does the same on
his third voyage (1501), and Corsali (1517) it is already as "Miracle Cross" means. Dante (in
the entrance of his "purgatory"), it probably knew from Arab sources. The constellation is flag
character of the German East Africa Company (See table "Flag II"). Those also called the Order
of the Southern Cross, the highest African brasil Order, founded first December 1822 by the Emperor
Dom Pedro I in memory of his appeal to the throne and so named in
allusion to the geographical situation of the empire, in which the
the constellation of the Southern Cross show.

The Order has four classes: Grand Cross, dignitaries, Officers and
knights.

The decoration consists of a five-armed, white enamelled gold cross, overcome by a wreath of
coffee and tobacco leaves, on a golden imperial crown hanging. The Golden Mittelavers shows
Dom Pedro's picture with the inscription: "Peter I, Emperor Brasiliae" the blue collar, a cross of 19
stars with the inscription: "Bene merentium Praemium". The Grand Cross, dignitaries and officers
wear the cross and a plaque, consisting of the Cross with golden rays between the arms, the
middle fold and the Crown, the dignitaries, the Cross at the neck, the last two classes on the
chest. The ribbon is sky blue. The Grand Cross are Excellencies, the dignitaries are due to Senhoria.
Pensions are also associated with the Order.

Southern lights, see aurora.

South-north channel, channel in the province of Hanover, the most
important of the new facilities in the Marshes on the left Emsseite
(Bourtanger Moor), for the purpose of cultivating it.

He has a length of 71 km, a width of 15.7 m and is on both sides (like the EMS Vechtekanal) accompanied
by trails. The channel relies on the Ems-Nordhorn Vechtekanal and continues to N. by the great
Moore a short distance from the Dutch border to roadstead, where it joins the Rhede Bellingwolde-channel
and connects with the Ems to go. Numerous Since channels are out of it out in the moors, even multiple
connections to the Dutch Canal system established.

Sudogda (Ssudogda), a district town in the Russian government of Vladimir, on the river pages, with
(1885) 1987 Inhabitants in the circle are 15 factories supply, which crystal and glassware.

Sudorifera (Latin), s. sweaty agent.

South Pole, pole and see magnetism.

South Polar Expedition, s. Südpolarländer.

Südpolarländer (Antarctic countries), all the countries and islands that fall within or are
located near the Antarctic Circle. Some accept the existence of a large Antarctic continent in
the mainland or to another page to doubt the existence of such and think of bigger and smaller
islands. What has been discovered so far is this: South-southeast from the tip of South America
are between 63 1 / 2 and 65 ° south latitude Trinity and Palmer Land, discovered in 1821 by Powell
and Palmer, further south in the latitude of the Arctic Circle discovered in 1832 by Adelaide-Biscoe
and Graham Land and Trinity on the east side of the country in 1838, discovered by Dumont d'Urville
Louis-Philippe of land, the island of Joinville. From the in 1599 by Dirk Gerrits seen, but only
in 1819 by W. Smith really discovered island chain South Shetland is the part of the Antarctic
land separated by the Bransfield Strait. Southwest is the Alexander Island and under the same
width, the high Peter Island both discovered in 1821 by Bellingshausen. To the west is only water and
ice, no land seen been. Only under L. 170-160 ° east of Gr. James Clark Ross discovered (1841-42)
the high coast a snowy country, which he called Victoria Land, and which many mountains 3000-4000
m altitude with, including the volcanoes Erebus (3770 m), Terror (3318 m) and the Melbourne 4570
m high as the highest of the observed peak. Between L. 165-95 ° east of Gr., below the Arctic Circle,
recorded Dumont d'Urville, and Wilkes Balleny (1839-40) a series Islands and coast lines disconnected,
the combined under the name of Wilkes Land be, individual routes are: Adélie Land, Clarieland, Sabrina
Land, Knox Land, Terminationinsel. To the west of Wilke and the country is Kempland 1831 Biscoe
discovered Enderby, both likely to be islands. The already lying to the north, discovered by
Cook in 1775, 1819 of Bellingshausen investigated sandwich group, also investigated by Cook, already
1675 by Laroche South Georgia and discovered in 1821 by Palmer and Powell discovered, 1822 of
Weddell visited Südorkneyinseln be included here. It is estimated the area of ​​S. on 660 000
sq km (12,000 sq.m.).

If an Antarctic continent is actually present, the same at most at
one point (against Australia), the 70th Latitude significantly exceed
and must remain far from the Atlantic side of the same distance.

Here reached Weddell in February 1823 at 33 ° 20 'west longitude
in almost ice-free sea, the width of 74 ° 15'. - The icy wasteland
of the Antarctic islets restricts the plant and animal life almost
entirely the ocean, but cliffs and mountain slopes are covered with
countless birds.

Active volcanism occurs particularly in the area of ​​Victoria state in great ways. The temperature
observations naturally have to the low summer heat and winter cold of a very small oceanic Climate
out. Ever since the Challenger expedition in 1874 penetrated into the Arctic Circle and Dallmann 1873-74
Graham land is surveyed, and since the voyage of the Gazelle (1874-75) is the research been stimulated
S. wiederholentlich from Germany. In particular, but one was in Australia for active, and the
local geographical societies gained the approval of a considerable sum by local governments, and
as the British Government but their aid failed, it was a company does not take place.

423

South Prussia - Suetonius.

South Prussia, the former province of the Kingdom of Prussia, from
1793 to Prussia defeated Part of Great Poland, consisting comprised
the former voivodships Poznan, Gniezno, Kalisz, Sieradz, Lentschiza,
Rawa and Plozk together 60.570 square km (1,100 SQM) with 1,335,000
inhabitants (see "Historical Map of Prussia). in 1795 there was another
part of the acquisitions of the third partition of Poland with Warsaw
added. In the Peace of Tilsit (1807) S. to the Grand Duchy of Warsaw
was hit by the dissolution of Prussia back in 1815 the present Grand
Duchy of Posen, the remaining major Part came to Russia. See Holscher,
geography and statistics of Western, Southern and East Prussia (Berl.
1804, 3 vols). 

South point (lunch period), one of the two intersections
of the meridian with the horizon, which is closer to the South Pole.

Sudra,
the fourth and lowest class in ancient Indian caste system, showing
the different Artisans, tenant farmers, day laborers, servants, etc.
included. In the present, go to S. the mixing box on, but are still
within the caste system. Now listen, and you shall hear. This schooner is the 'Nautilus,' as I say, and
she is a Spanish schooner. Yes;" (in reply to the question in the boy's eyes,) "I am partly
a Spanish man, but not all. I have other mankind in me, young gentleman. We come from the Bahamas.
Do you know where are they, the Bahamas?"

John nodded. He liked geography, and stood at the head of his class. "Part of the West Indies,"
he said, rapidly. "Low, coral islands. One of them, San Salvador, is said to be the first land
discovered by Columbus in 1492. Principal exports, sugar, coffee, cotton, tobacco, and tropical
fruits. Belong to Great Britain. That's all I know."

"Caramba!" said a handsome youth, who was lounging on the rail a few feet off, gazing on with
idle eyes, "you got the schoolmaster here, Patron! I did not know all that, me, and I come,
too, from Bahamas. Say, you teach a school, M'sieur?"

"Franci!" said the Patron, gravely.

"Si, Señor!" said Franci, with a beautiful smile, which showed his teeth under his black mustache.

"There is a school of flying-fish in the cabin. Better see to them!"

"Si, Señor!" said Franci, and disappeared down the hatchway.

"Is there?" asked the boy John, with great eyes of wonder. The Skipper smiled, and shook his head.

"Franci understands me," he said. "I wish to tell him that he go about his business, and not
linger,--as you say, loaf about the deck. I take a little way round about, but he understands
very well, Franci. And of all these exports, what does the young gentleman think I have brought
from the Bahamas?"

"I--I was just wondering!" John confessed; but he did not add his secret hope that it was something
more interesting than cotton or tobacco.

The Skipper turned and made a quick, graceful gesture with his hand. "Perhaps the young gentleman
like to see my cargo," he said. "Do me the favor!" and he led the way down to the cabin.

Now it became evident to the boy that all had indeed been a dream. It sometimes happened that
way, dreaming that you woke and found it all true, and then starting up to find that the first
waking had been of dream-stuff too, that it was melting away from your sight, from your grasp;
even things that looked so real, so real,--he pinched himself violently, and shook his head,
and tried to break loose from fetters of sleep, binding him to such sweet wonders, that he
must lose next moment; but no waking came, and the wonders remained.

The cabin was full of shells. Across one end of the little room ran a glazed counter, where
lay heaped together various objects of jewelry, shell necklaces, alligator teeth and sea-beans
set in various ways, tortoise-shell combs, bracelets and hairpins,--a dazzling array. Yet the
boy's eyes passed almost carelessly over these treasures, to light with quick enchantment on
the shells themselves, the real shells, as he instantly named them to himself, resenting half-consciously
the turning of Nature's wonders into objects of vulgar adornment.

The shells were here, the shells were there, the shells were all around! Shelf above shelf
of them, piled in heaps, lying in solitary splendor, arranged in patterns,--John had never,
in his wildest dreams, seen so many shells. Half the poetry of his little life had been in
the lovely forms and colors that lay behind the locked glass doors in Mr. Scraper's parlor;
for Mr. Scraper was a collector of shells in a small way. John had supposed his collection
to be, if not the only one in the world, at least the most magnificent, by long odds; yet here
were the old man's precious units multiplied into tens, into twenties, sometimes into hundreds,
and all lying open to the day, as if anyone, even a small one, even a little boy, who almost
never had anything in his hand more precious than his own purple mussel at home, might touch
and handle them and feel himself in heaven.

They gleamed with the banded glories of the rainbow: they softened into the moonlight beauty
of the pearl; they veiled their loveliness in milky clouds, through which the color showed
as pure and sweet as the cheek of a bride; they glowed with depths of red and flame that might
almost burn to the touch.

The little boy stood with clasped hands, and sobbed with excitement. "Did you dig up all the
sea?" he asked, in a wonder that was not without reproach. "Are there none left any more, at all?"

The Skipper laughed quietly. "The mermaids see not any difference, sir," he said. "Where I
take one shell from its rock, I leave a hundred, a thousand. The sea is a good mother, she
has plenty children. See!" he added, lifting a splendid horned shell, "this is the Royal Triton.
On a rock I found him, twenty fathom down. It was a family party, I think, for all around they
lay, some clinging to the rock, some in the mud, some walking about. I take one, two, three,
put them in my pouch; up I go, and the others, they have a little more room, that's all."

John's eyes glowed in his head.

"I--I should like to see that!" he cried. "What is it like down there? Do sharks come by,--swish!
with their great tails? And why don't they eat you, like the man in the geography book? And
is there really a sea-serpent? And do the oysters open and shut their mouths, so that you can
see the pearls, or how do you know which are the right ones?

"There are a great many things that I have thought about all my life," he said, "and nobody
could ever tell me. The bottom of the sea, that is what I want most in the world to know about."

He paused, out of breath, and would have been abashed at his own boldness, had not the Skipper's
eyes told him so perfectly that they had understood all about it, and that there was no sort
of reason why he should not ask all the questions he liked.

They were wonderful eyes, those of the Skipper. Most black eyes are wanting in the depths that
one sounds in blue, or gray, in brown, more rarely in hazel eyes; they flash with an outward
brilliancy, they soften into velvet, but one seldom sees through them into the heart. But these
eyes, though black beyond a doubt, had the darkness of deep, still water, when you look into
it and see the surface mantling with a bluish gloss, and beneath that depth upon depth of black--clear,
serene, unfathomable. And when a smile came into them,--ah, well! we all know how that same
dark water looks when the sun strikes on it. The sun struck now, and little John felt warm
and comfortable all through his body and heart.

"The bottom of the sea?" said the Skipper, taking up a shell and polishing it on his coat-sleeve.
"Yes, that is a fine place, Colorado. You mind not that I call you Colorado? It pleases me,--the
name. A fine place, truly. You have never seen the sea, young gentleman?"

The boy shook his head.

"Never, really!" he said. "I--I've dreamed about it a great deal, and I think about it most
of the time. There's a picture in my geography book, just a piece of sea, and then broken off,
so that you don't see any end to it; that makes it seem real, somehow, I don't know why.

"But I've heard the sound of it!" he added, his face brightening. "There's a shell in Mr. Scraper's
parlour, on the mantelpiece, and sometimes when he goes to sleep I can get it for a minute,
and hold it to my ear, and then I hear the sound, the sound of the sea."

"Yes," said the Skipper, taking up another shell from one of the shelves, a tiger cowry, rich
with purple and brown. "The sound of the sea; that is a good thing. Listen here, young gentleman,
and tell me what the tiger say to you of the sea."

He held the shell to the boy's ear, and saw the colour and the light come like a wave into
his face. They were silent for a moment; then the child spoke, low and dreamily.

"It doesn't say words, you know!" he said. "It's just a soft noise, like what the pine-trees
make, but it sounds cool and green and--and wet. And there are waves a long way off, curling
over and over, and breaking on white beaches, and they smell good and salt. And it seems to
make me know about things down under the sea, and bright colours shining through the water,
and light coming 'way down--cool, green light, that doesn't make you wink when you look at
it. And--and I guess there are lots of fishes swimming about, and their eyes shine, too, and
they move just as soft, and don't make any noise, no more than if their mother was sick in
the next room. And on the ground there seem to be like flowers, only they move and open and
shut without any one touching them. And--and--"

Was the boy going into a trance? Were the dark eyes mesmerizing him, or was all this to be
heard in the shell? The Skipper took the shell gently from his hand, and stroked his hair once
or twice, quickly and lightly. "That will do!" he said. "The young gentleman can hear truly.
All these things are under the sea, yes, and more, oh, many more! Some day you shall see them,
young gentleman; who knows? But now comes Franci to make the dinner. Will Señor Colorado dine
with the Skipper from the Bahamas? Welcome he will be, truly."

Little John started, and a guilty flush swept over his clear face.

"I forgot!" he cried. "I forgot all about everything, and Cousin Scraper will be home by this
time, and--and--I'll have to be going, please; but I'll come again, if you think I may."

The Skipper had raised his eyebrows at the name of Scraper, and was now looking curiously at
the boy. "Who is that you say?" he asked. "Scraper, your cousin? And of your father, young
gentleman,--why do you not speak of him?" State of Mexico, 2340 m above sea level. M., Thal closely with
(1880) 7613 It came against Throws gold, silver, copper, iron, lead,
tin, antimony, tin and other metals.

Sulu (Joloinseln), a group of small mountainous, but fertile islands in the East India Archipelago
between the northeast tip of Borneo and the southwestern tip of Mindanao, 2456 sq km (45 SQM)
in size with 75,000 Malay residents who are committed to Islam and earlier than bold pirates
were widely notorious. Nevertheless it several times by French, Spanish and Dutch ships, even
by the Rajah Brooke of Borneo, were punished severely, heard their piracies not occur to Spain
from the Philippines in 1876, the main island S. and occupied the entire archipelago of the Philippines
to the General Capitanate incorporated. The Spain's law on the archipelago was also recognized in 1885 by
treaty between Germany and England. Since then form the collection of edible bird's nests
and the pearl fishing the most productive source of income The Islander, whose low trading rests
almost entirely in the hands of Chinese from Manila. The city was at its capture in 1876 S.
burned by the Spanish, but Spanish Genie officers rebuilt and fortified
by convict labor.

Moved to the archipelago south to the Celebes Sea extending part of the name of Sulu Sea. S. Card "Further
India".

Sulz, 1) an official city in Württemberg. Black Forest Circle, on the Neckar and to line Plochingen-Villingen
the Württemberg State Railways, 427 m above sea level. M., has a Protestant church, a local court,
a Main control and a Kameralamt, a saline, a saltwater pool and (1885) 1895 inhabitants mostly
Protestant. -

2) (Obersulz, French Soultz) city and cantonal capital in the German district of Upper Alsace, district
Gebweiler, on the railroad Gebweiler-Lautenbach, has an old Catholic. Church, a district court a forestry
office, spinning silk, silk and cotton weaving mill, iron foundry and (1885) 4511 mostly Catholic.
Inhabitants.

West of the 1432 m high Sulzer Belchen, the highest peak in the Vosges.
-

3) (page under forest) in the German capital city and Canton region
of Lower Alsace, Wissembourg district, on the railroad Strasbourg
White Castle, has a Protestant and a Catholic.

Church, a district court Mining of petroleum, asphalt and steel, an oil refinery, and hop (1885) 1566
Inhabitants -

4) Bad, s. Schongau.

Sülz, village in the Prussian. The district and county Cologne, 2
km southwest of Cologne, spinning, Manufacture of machinery, gold
bars, printer ink, brushes and paint, kiln and (1885) 2496 inh

Sulza
(Sulza city), city in Saxony-Weimar. County Weimar II (Apolda), on
the Ilm, Intersection of the line Neudietendorf-white rock of the
Prussian state railway and the railway Straußfurt large herring, 134
m above sea level. Exhibition in a few hours ready, free to all. Explanation and instruction
when desired by intelligent persons desiring of to know the habits under the sea. Schooner
'Nautilus,' from the Bahamas, with remarkable collection of shells and marine curiosities.
Adios, Señor Juan Colorado!"

CHAPTER III.

A GREAT EXHIBITION.

Little John was not the one to spread the tidings of the schooner's arrival. He had to take
his whipping,--a hard one it was!--and then he was sent down into the cellar to sift ashes,
as the most unpleasant thing that could be devised for a fine afternoon. But the news spread,
for all that. John was not the only boy in the village of Tidewater, and by twelve o'clock
every man, woman and child was talking about the new arrival; and by two o'clock, the dinner
dishes being put away, and the time of the evening chores still some hours off, nearly every
man, woman and child was hastening in the direction of the wharf. Of course the boys were going.
It was vacation time, and what else should boys do but see all that was to be seen? And of
course it was the duty of the elders to see that the children came to no harm. So the fathers
were strolling leisurely down, saying to each other that 'twas all nonsense, most likely, and
nothing worth seeing, but some one ought to be looking out that the boys and the women folks
didn't get cheated. The mothers were putting on their bonnets, in the serene consciousness
that if anyone was going to be cheated it was not they, and that goodness knew what those men-folks
would be up to on that schooner if they were left to themselves. And the little girls were
shaking the pennies out of their money boxes, or if they had no boxes, watching with eager
eyes their more fortunate sisters. Truly, it was a great day in the village.

The Skipper welcomed one and all. He stood by the gang-plank, and Franci stood by him, cap
in hand, smiling in a beautiful way. On the rail were perched two little monkeys, their arms
round each other's shoulders, their bright eyes watching with eager curiosity all that went
on. When the Skipper bowed, they bowed; when he smiled, they grinned; and when he put out his
hand to help a woman or a child aboard, they laid their hands on their hearts, and tried to
look like Franci. (1858, 7 vols), and others elected deputies in 1850, he spent the
far left, was banned after the coup in 1851 and lived in France since to Annecy in Savoy, where he
third Aug. died in 1859. Even as a dramatic poet of the Boulevard Theater he had tried to, but without
much luck. In the field of the novel S., with respect on imagination, inventiveness and narrative
talent bubbling few rivals among his countrymen. His means are to blame although partially and his realism
often more than rough, but his irresistible power to keep their interest and admiration can
not but Market failure.

Suecia, neulat. name for Sweden.

Suedois (French, spr.

Sswedoahs.

"Swede"), a very popular sweet dish in France of apple jam.

Sues City, see Suez.

Suessouer (Suessones), brave and powerful people in Gallia Belgica, the over 50,000 armed men
presented, and its king Divitiacus before Caesar's time the most powerful among the princes of
Gaul was inhabited a vast and fertile land between the Seine and the Aisne, and had twelve cities
under which Noviodunum, later Augusta Suessonum (Soissons), the capital was.

Suetonius, Gaius Tranquillus S., Roman historian who lived around
AD 70-140, dedicated to Rome rhetorical and grammatical studies, then
went there as a judicial orator on, was appointed to the Master epistolarum
under Hadrian, but this place again and lost seems to have from now
on exclusively devoted to literary activity.

He compiled 120, the almost-complete biographies of the twelve emperors
from Julius Caesar to Domitian (De vita Caesarum "), which in a simple
and clear language a

424

Suevi - Suez Canal.

Quantity of valuable notes on the Emperor in question included. We also still have Parts of a script:
"De grammaticis et rhetoribus" (edited by Osann, casting 1854th), and biographies of Terence,
Horace, Lucan (the latter is incomplete) and the remains of a biography of the elder Pliny, all probably
greater remains one of his written work: "De viris illustribus. From other writings only the
names and minor fragments survive, which also his name leading biographies of Virgil and Persius
are probably spurious. Expenditure provided Burmann (Amsterd. 1735, 2 vols), Oudendorp (Leid.
1751), Ernesti (Leipzig, 1748, 2nd Ed 1772), Wolf (ibid. 1802, 4 vols) and Roth (ibid. 1858)
and recent translations Reichardt (Stuttgart 1855 ff), Stahr (2nd edition, this 1874, 2 vols)
and Sarrazin (ibid. 1883, 2 vols). Of S. other writings besides the
"Vitae" are specifically published by Reifferscheid (Leipzig, 1860).

Suevi (Suevi), name of a german. League of Nations, which probably the same in the east of existing
less on agriculture than from hunting and livestock living military, hiking funny ("roving")
Strains included, later name of a single people. Caesar, who invaded the Gaul defeated S.
Ariovistus under 58 BC, conceives under the name behind the Ubiern Sigambern and resident Germans
and reports that they are 100 districts, each with militant 10.000 Men counted, but far from his crossing
of the Rhine, to the forest Bacenis, withdrawn had. They should have had no fixed residence,
but each year, partly due to war Companies be extended. Tacitus calls the whole eastern Germania from
the Danube to Suevia to the Baltic Sea. The Hermunduri he regarded as the foremost, the Semnones
as the most prestigious, the Lombards as the boldest among the suevischen peoples. The service
of Nerthus (Hertha) S. was all together. The man, Marko Marbod suevische peoples united under his Scepter,
and still later, to Marcus Aurelius' time, are referred to as S. Marcomanni and Quaden. In the age
of migration, the name was limited to S. Semnones. A part of the same took part in the 406 at
the Verwüstungszug Radagaisus. 409 they invaded it with the Vandals and Alans crossed the
Pyrenees to Spain before, then spread to the south of Rechila Lusitania and Baetica out. Rechilas Rechiar
son got 456 against the Visigoth king Theodoric II victory and life, and his successor draw mouth
was Eurich for the recognition of sovereignty forced the Visigoths. King Theodemir came from
Arianism to Catholicism. 585 was suevische the kingdom to the Visigoth incorporated. In Germany,
the name of the S. the Swabians obtained.

Suez (Suez), city in Egypt, at the northern tip of the Red Sea, which here in the Gulf S. expires
at the mouth of the Suez Canal (qv) in the same and the railroad Cairo-Ismailia-S., with (1882), 10.919
inhabitants, among foreigners in 1183. The city consists of the Arab quarter and the regular
part of the European district, with large warehouses, magazines of the Peninsular and Oriental-Dampfergesellschast
and a vice-regal mansion. Northeast of the mouth of the 2 m above sea level here. M. lying freshwater
canal lock works with a large, northwest of a large English Hospital. The port facilities which are
built out in S. far into the sea, leads a 3 km long dam, on the railroad running to the basin
of the canal company with Lighthouse and the statue of Lieutenant Waghorn. The large harbor basin,
Port Ibrahim is called by a huge wall in the war and the trade port divorced and may take 500
ships. Trade has not yet focused here, but more to Port Said and Alexandria drawn, and S.'s
more of a crossing point remained. 1886 was the importation of 594.385, the Export 42.697 Egyptian
pounds. The city is the seat of a German consul. Probably S. is listed on the site of the old enema,
as the Arabs Quolzum. It was before the discovery the sea route to India around the Cape as
a major defeat of European and Indian goods a thriving place fell
into disrepair, but after that, and counted at the beginning of the
canals only 1500 inhabitants

Suez canal ship canal to connect the
Mediterranean and the Red Sea through intersections of only 113 km
wide isthmus of S. (see the by-tile on the map "Mediterranean").

This channel is, as mapped out by nature, by the Isthmus itself only as a to consider the Gulf of St.
perpetuating subsidence is the highest in its place, at El Gisr, only 16 m above sea level. M.
lies, and their piercing through three lakes (Ballah, Timsah- and Bitter) had to be facilitated
even higher. Already in the 14th Century BC, the construction of the Nile to Timsahsee and
from there to the Red Sea carrying channel by the two great ruler Seti I and Ramses II performed
to their fleet from one to the other bring to sea. This channel (ta altägypt. Tenant, "the
penetration") was probably by neglecting to reason, and only towards the end of the 7th Century
BC, it took Necho (616-600), a son Psammetichus I, a new channel from the Nile to build the
Red Sea, but by oracle (because it would benefit only the "strangers") has been suspended after
its construction 120 000 people had been killed. First Hystaspis Darius (521-486) ​​completed
the work of Necho, which was under the Ptolemies still significantly improved. But Cleopatra's
time to have the channel was partially silted up again, and what, under the Romans, was especially
under Emperor Trajan (98-117 AD), for the channel, does not seem very been meaning to be. After
the Arabs conquered Egypt, it was Amr, the commander Caliph Omar, who in the 7th Century the
canal from Cairo to the Red Sea re-established and grain truck used, in the 8th Cent, but he
was already completely useless, call today and only faint traces of the old plant at the former
pharaohs, Persians, Ptolemies, Roman Emperors and Arab caliphs built. The credit of first return
to the have pointed out advantages of a maritime canal between the Mediterranean and the Red Sea,
due Leibniz, who wrote in this sense in 1671 to Louis XIV. Bonaparte was occasionally his expedition
to Egypt in 1798 by engineer Lepère surveys for the construction of a direct Make channel. Unfortunately
Lepère came to the old times, when incorrectly labeled result that the mirror of the Red Sea
9.908 m was higher than that of the Mediterranean. This startled of further attempts. When finally
in 1841 by barometric measurements, British officers the error was detected, tried in vain Metternich
in 1843, Mehemet Ali having to

425

Suffet - Suffolk.

Interested until finally in 1854 Ferdinand von Lesseps (sd) at the
Viceroy Said support found. received after overcoming many difficulties
this last fifth Jan. 1856 by the Porte a firman for the concession
of the canal and to form a corporation.

This company came under the name of universal Compagnie du Canal Maritime de Suez, together and was
a privilege for 99 years, is the time for channel to Egypt. On 25. April 1859 was made at Port
Said at the northern end of the channel, the first sod. The measure the difficulties to be resolved
was a tremendous. All materials, tools, machines, Coal, iron, each piece of wood had to be brought
from Europe. 1862 were from the 1800 Last camels the company alone in 1600 the daily transport
of drinking water to 25,000 workers in claim taken so that the daily output for 8000 Frank was
drinking. So it was above all Things only need to complete the freshwater channel which drinking water
from the Nile to the isthmus should lead. At the same sagas diverted from the Nile from, out first
in an easterly direction to Ismailia, and thence south to Suez; lock works with the opportunity to
address a larger or to supply less water. In the mirror he reached a width of 17, the share of
8 m, but he is only 2 1 / 2 m deep on average. Its completion was 29th December 1863, resulting
in a yearly issue was spared from 3 million francs. With machine forces to 22.000 Horse-power was
represented, despite some unfortunate cases (outbreak of cholera and to following desertion of all
workers), in spite of diplomatic and financial difficulties continued to work vigorously so that
as early 18th Nov. 1862, the waters of the Mediterranean in the Timsahsee could flow in to fill
the 80 million cubic meters were necessary. On the northwest shore this lake was the residence
of the channel management, the city of Ismailia, to which the new Railway from Cairo and Alexandria
was put out, while the old Cairo-Suez desert railway was abandoned. On 18 March 1869 was the inlet
of the Mediterranean water in the Bitter Lake, and 16 Nov. 1869 was attended by many princes, and
a vast array of charged Europeans, the opening of the channel with festivities held to the 20 million
Chedive Fri should have cost. The canal is 160 km, the width at the water level 58-100 m, on the
sole 22 m, depth 8 m. It starts at the Mediterranean at Port Said with two enormous in the
sea jetties built of 2250 and 1600 m length which the outer harbor of Port Said hold form and
the currents induced by western Nile mud. The channel enters then in a southerly direction into
the Menzalehsee, where he surrounded on both sides of dams is the same leaves at kilometer
45 and the El Kantara reached called ground survey, which he cuts through to 4 km to enter the
Ballahsee. After this exited, followed by the stations El and El Ferdan Gisr, then the channel
enters the wide, blue area of ​​the Timsahsees one, lies at the northwest end of Ismailia, and
he at Tousoun leaves to break through the 16 km long rock threshold of the Serapeum. The now at
Kilometer 95 following bitter lakes are a beautiful, 220 sq km of water that rings surrounded by
deserts and at the inlet and outlet of the channel is provided with lighthouses. At El Schaluf,
at the southern end of the Bitter Lakes, are already having ebb and flow of the Red Sea noticeable,
which is reached at kilometer 156th Southeast of the city of Suez, the canal channel for 4 km
far out into the sea, to finally reach at 9 m depth, the harbor of Suez. The construction cost
of the canal amounted to about 19 million pounds Sterl., Of which 12,800,000 raised through
share subscriptions were revealed during the rest of the Chedive. Letzterm bought England
in 1875, the acquired nor unplacierten shares (177.602 shares with a value of 3.5 million Pounds
Sterl.) AB. By the end of 1884 with the inclusion of the improvements have been expended for
the channel 488 million francs, while the assets amounted to 76.7 million Fri. The revenue of the
society were 1872 for the first time a surplus of 2 million francs, which rose in 1887 to 29.7
million francs. Also ship traffic proves the complete success of the company. It used the
channel 1887: 3137 ships of 5,903,024 net tons of content, including 2330 English, 185 French, 159
Dutch, 159 German, 82 Austria-Hungary, 138 Italian, etc. The number of travelers amounted to
182.998 with the inclusion of soldiers. The revenue amounted to 60.5, spending to 30.8 million
Fri What the initials of the distances between Europe and the East is concerned, is the same for
the boat trip from Brindisi to Bombay 37, Trieste 37, of Genoa, 32, of Marseiile 31, Bordeaux
24, from Liverpool 24, from London 24, Amsterdam 24, from Hamburg 24 days. After that, make
time savings in the journey directions to other ports. Of course, to also take into consideration
whether to be transported Were the costly channel-inch (10 francs per tonne net weight) to assets
transferred. Manufactures, Steel, fine metal goods, silk, tea, coffee, cotton, etc. may be
unconditional channel capable Goods shall, while a long freight contract end goods advantageous
way around the Cape . Take See Lesseps, Lettres, journal et documents à l'histoire du canal de Suez
par (1881, 5 vols), Volkmann, S. and its extension (in "channels", Berl.1886); Krukenberg, the flux
the Isthmus of S. (Heidelb. 1888).

Suffet ("Judges"), the chief magistrates at Carthage (sd, p. 566).

Sufficit (Latin), just enough out.

Suffisance (French, spr ssüffisängs.), Complacency, arrogant self-sufficiency; smugly, gegenü neighborhood,
complacent, conceited.

Suffix (Latin) suffix at the end of a word attached syllable; see
inflection.

Suffiency (Latin), enough, enough.

Sufflenheim, stains Bring it in the German Lower Alsace, Haguenau circle, at the Eberbach has
factories for ceramics and refractory bricks, timber trade and (1885)
3158 mostly Catholic.

Inhabitants.

Suffocatio (Latin), suffocation (sd).

Suffolk (pronounced ssöffok), Eng. County on the North Sea, 3820 square kilometers (69.4 sq.m.)
with large (1881) 356.893 inhabitants, is generally undulating and mostly sandy and flattens out
after Coast, where stretches of marshes occur.

The most important rivers are the Stour (border river against Essex),
Orwell, Wavenay (the river to Norfolk) and Ouse with the Lark.

Agriculture and Cattle are on high heat.

Keeps you here a race of ungehörnten cows, which tremendously much milk, the Suf-

426

Suffolk - suggestion.

folk sheep are short, but very fine wool. 63 per cent of the surface are under the plow, 18 per
cent consist of meadows. 1888, there were 41.534 acres horse, 63.258 cattle, sheep 422.150
130.887 and pigs. In the manufacture of agricultural machines makes S. diminishing, other branches
the industry are irrelevant. Capital is Ipswich.

Suffolk (pronounced ssöffok), Eng. Title of nobility, first as counts of the Clifford family, since 14. Cent
of the family as dukes poles of S. The last execution of this house was 1513th Henry VIII bestowed
the title of his favorite, Charles Brandon, the husband of his sister Mary, whose son Henry Gray
of Edward VI. 1551 was elevated to Duke of S.. The same was in addition to his daughter Johanna
Gray (see Gray 1) beheaded 1554th Soon got Lord Thomas Howard, son of the fourth Duke of Norfolk,
who in 1597 created Baron Howard was in 1603 the title of Count of S. Even in the fight against
the invincible fleet Philip II, he had distinguished themselves,
under James I, he was privy 1603 and 1605, Lord Chief Treasurer, in
which capacity he distinguished himself that the discovery of the
Gunpowder Plot.

1614-18 He was Lord High Treasurer, but was discharged in 1618, accused of corruption and set
in the Tower, from which he was freed, but after a few days.

He died 1626th His second son was charged in 1626 for the Earl of
Berkshire and is the ancestral father of the current Counts of S.
and Berkshire, current head of the firm is John Charles Howard, Earl
of S. and Berkshire, born 7th Nov. 1804th

Suffragan (Latin), each
seat and to vote (suffragium) authorized member of a college of clergy,
especially the (an archbishop child) diocesan bishop.

Universal suffrage (French, spr.

Ssüffrahsch üniwersséll), see universal suffrage.

Suffragium (Latin), the voice of the Roman citizens of the electors
(sd) or as a judge in criminal processes (judicia publica) gave, the
vote on the whole, the right to vote itself

Suffrutex (Latin), s.
shrub.

Suffusion (Latin Hyphämie), diffuse Blutunterlaufung of greater expansion in the Gewebsmaschen,
as especially under the skin of bruises, beatings with blunt instruments, in rare Cases occur spontaneously,
such as purpura, scurvy, etc.

Sufism (Sofismus), the mysticism of the Muslims, according to which man is an emanation (Emanations)
of God is back and seeks reunification with it. His followers hot Sufi ("Dressed wool"), since,
under the custom of the first founders of the 3rd Century after Mohammed wearing only woolen clothing,
but no longer the case. The Sufi differ three stations in their order: that of the method on
which the Muslim prescribed Cleaners and prayers is doing outside, and the knowledge of where
he recognizes that all external religious practice has no real value, rather the study of sacred
Sufi writings and meditative sinking is dedicated to the deity, and finally to the Certainty
on which he knows himself to be one with God and therefore superior to all asceticism is. As founder
of the S., notably in Asia Minor and Persia, in India spread found an Arab Persians from Iraq
called, apply to its most important representatives The Persian poet
Rumi and Dschelal eddin Frerid eddin Attar from Nishabur as well as
the famous poets Hafez and Saadi.

See Tholuck, S., immersive Theosophia Persarum pantheistica (Berl. 1821), Kremer, history of
dominant ideas of Islam (Leipzig, 1868), Palmer, Oriental mysticism (Lond. 1867); Gobineau,
Les Religions et les philosophes dans l'Asie Centrale (2nd Ed, para 1866).

Suganathal (Valsugana) Flußthal the Brenta, where it flows through Tyrolean area, pulls from
the sources of the Brenta from 50 km to the Italian border, where
at Tezze turns into a wild ravine, containing the lakes of Levico
and Caldonazzo, has abundant vegetation Wine and silk culture, and
about 70.000 inhabitants.

Important locations are Pergine, Levico, Borgo and Roncegno the seaside resort. The name is derived
from the tribe of the Euganeer, which here were located.

Sugatag (pronounced shu), village in the county ungar. Marmaros in Marmaros-Sziget, with large
salt works plant (Annual production of 165.000 metric. Cwt of salt). From mine out a 20 km long narrow
gauge Train to Marmaros-Sziget.

Suger (pronounced ssühsche), French prelate and statesman, born in 1081 at St-Omer, since 1122
Abbot of St.-Denis had under Louis VI. Louis VII and significant influence on the political system,
improved the judiciary, promoted agriculture, trade and commerce,
favored the cities, was while Louis VII Crusade 1147-49 Regent kingdom,
raised the power of the monarchy, and died 12th Jan. 1151st He wrote,
among other things: "Vita Ludovici VI."

(Edited by Molinier, para 1887) and "De rebus in sua GESTIS administration
(at Duchesne," Scriptor ", Vol 5).

His life described Combes (par. 1853) and Nettement (3rd edition, this 1868).

Suggest (Latin), enter you something, cause him to influence anything.

Suggestion (French, "inspiration"), the instillation of certain concepts in hypnosis (see Hypnotism).
The experience of recent years have proved that the intellectual influence much of the hypnotism
of their independent and logical thinking persons deprived allow further expansion, as there was
a tendency by then to believe, and that this amazing Effects can be achieved. Richet, Paris
wants a woman of middle years in succession have suggested that she was a peasant woman, an
actress, an old general, a preacher, a nun, an old woman, a small child, a young man, etc., and
they had always the imaginary part be referred. In a recently negotiated process to Pforzheim were among
the persons in the artificially excited delusion to be dogs, been rushed to other commodities. The
famous psychologist J. Delboeuf in Liège a person even successfully pre-talk, it was a heated
iron stove or a burning oil lamp. The dreamer just lacks any logic and ability to own by thinking
of a peremptory Delusion snatch. One can understand the danger of the power of an unscrupulous Hypnotist
over his victims, and there are already several cases have come before the courts, in which
women under the pretext of intercourse with her husband, abused or
written Donations have been initiated.

It is therefore of greatest concern, without the presence of a Trusted
person can hypnotisierenzu.

Some

427

Mental suggestion - Suifon.

researchers, especially Charkot in Paris, but also Krafft-Ebing in Graz, Oberstein in Vienna
and other German authorities have given is true in modern times, go even further and claim
It could be by S. impressions of body and mind bring forth life,
beyond the hypnotic carry out work and so curative effects, character
changes, educative influences, etc. could. Krafft-Ebing will of a
person's body temperature, they show the next morning should, and
a French doctor by the inspiration of another, they will be with glowing
have iron burned, produces even blisters. Also, personal attacks,
crime etc. after the hypnosis is a push by S. can be given.

"Why do you tell such lies?" asked John, whom Franci had not observed, as he was lying in one
of the schooner's boats, with a monkey on either arm. Franci's smile deepened as he turned
toward the boy, swearing softly in Spanish, and feeling in his breast; but at that moment Rento
happened to stroll that way, blushing deeply at Lena's nearness, yet with a warlike expression
in his bright blue eyes. Franci told him he was the son of a pig that had died of the plague,
and that he, Franci, devoutly hoped the son would share the fate of his mother, without time
to consult a priest. Rento replied that he could jaw as much as he was a mind to, so long as
he let the boy alone; and Lena looked from one to the other with a flush on her pretty cheek,
and an instinct that made her heart beat a little faster.

Mr. Scraper's visits were apt to be made in the evening; his passion for shells was like that
for drink, and he would fain have hidden it from the eyes of his neighbours. It was always
a trial to Franci to know that the old miser, as he called Mr. Endymion, was in the cabin,
and that he, Franci, must keep watch on deck while this withered anatomy sat on the cabin chairs
and drank with the Patron. Franci's way of keeping watch was to lie at full length on the deck
with his feet in the air, smoking cigarettes. It was not the regulation way, but Franci did
not care for that. That beast of a Rento was asleep, snoring like a pig that he was, while
his betters must keep awake and gaze at this desolating prospect; the Patron was in the cabin
with the miser, and no one thought of the individual who alone gave charm to the schooner.
He, Franci, would make himself as comfortable as might be, and would not care a puff of his
cigar if the schooner and all that were in it, except himself, should go to the bottom the
next minute. No! Rather would he dance for joy, and wave his hand, and cry, "Good voyage, Patron!
Good voyage, brute of a pig-faced Rento! Good voyage, old 'Nautilus!' Go all to the bottom
with my blessing, and I dance on the wharf, and marry the pretty Lena, and get all the old
miser's money, and wear velvet coats. Ah! Franci, my handsome little boy, why did you let them
send you to sea, hearts of stone that they were! You, born to shine, to adorn, to break the
hearts of maidens! Why? tell me that!" He waved his legs in the air, and contemplated with
delight their proportions, which were certainly exquisite. "Caramba!" he murmured; "beauty,
that is it! Otherwise one might better be a swine,--yes, truly!"

At this point, perhaps, Rento appeared, rubbing his eyes, evidently just awake, and ready to
take his watch; whereupon the beautiful one sat up, and, fixing his eyes on his fellow-seaman,
executed a series of grimaces which did great credit to his invention and power of facial expression.
Then he delivered himself of an harangue in purest Spanish, to the effect that the day was
not far distant when he, Franci, would slit Rento's nose with a knife, and carve his initials
on his cheeks, and finally run him through the so detestable body and give him to the fish
to devour, though with strong fears of his disagreeing with them. To which Rento replied that
he might try it just as soon as he was a mind to, but that at this present moment he was to
get out; which the beautiful youth accordingly did, retiring with a dancing step, expressive
of scorn and disgust.

On one such night as this the scene in the little cabin was a curious one. A lamp burned brightly
on the table, and its lights shone on a number of objects, some lying openly on the green table-cover,
some reclining superbly in velvet-lined cases. Shells! Yes, but not such shells as were heaped
in profusion on shelf and counter. Those were lovely, indeed, and some of them of considerable
value; but it was a fortune, no less, that lay now spread before the eyes of the Skipper and
his guest. For these were the days when fine shells could not be bought on every hand, as they
can to-day; when a good specimen of the Imperial Harp brought two hundred and fifty dollars
easily, and when a collector would give anything, even to the half of his kingdom (if he were
a collector of the right sort), for a Precious Wentletrap.

It was a Wentletrap on which the little red eyes of Mr. Endymion Scraper were fixed at this
moment. The morocco case in which it lay was lined with crimson velvet, and the wonderful shell
shone purely white against the glowing colour,--snow upon ice; for the body of the shell was
semi-transparent, the denser substance of the spiral whorls turning them to heavy snow against
the shining clearness beneath them. Has any of my readers seen a Precious Wentletrap? Then
he knows one of the most beautiful things that God has made.

Apparently the Skipper had just opened the case, for Mr. Scraper was sitting with his mouth
wide open, staring at it with greedy, almost frightened eyes. Truly, a perfect specimen of
this shell was, in those days, a thing seen only in kings' cabinets; yet no flaw appeared in
this, no blot upon its perfect beauty. The old miser sat and stared, and only his hands, which
clutched the table-cloth in a convulsive grasp, and his greedy eyes, showed that he was not
turned to stone. He had been amazed enough by the other treasures, as the Skipper had taken
them one by one from the iron safe in the corner, whose door now hung idly open. Where had
been seen such Pheasants as these,--the fragile, the exquisite, the rarely perfect? Even the
Australian Pheasant, rarest of all, lay here before him, with its marvellous pencillings of
rose and carmine and gray. Mr. Endymion's mouth had watered at the mere description of the
shell in the catalogue, but he had never thought to see one, except the imperfect specimen
in the museum at Havenborough. Here, too, was the Orange Cowry; here the Bishop's Mitre, and
the precious Voluta Aulica; while yonder,--what was this man, that he should have a Voluta
Junonia, of which only a few specimens are possessed in the known world? What did it all mean?

The Skipper sat beside the table, quiet and self-contained as usual. His arm lay on the table,
his hand was never far from the more precious shells, and his eyes did not leave the old man's
face; but he showed no sign of uneasiness. Why should he, when he could have lifted Mr. Endymion
with his left hand and set him at any minute at the top of the cabin stairs? Now and then he
took up a shell with apparent carelessness (though in reality he handled them with fingers
as fine as a woman's, knowing their every tenderest part, and where they might best be approached
without offence to their delicacy), looked it over, and made some remark about its quality
or value; but for the most part he was silent, letting the shells speak for themselves and
make their own effect.

The old man had been wheezing and grunting painfully for some minutes, opening and shutting
his hands, and actually scratching the table-cloth in his distress. At length he broke out,
after a long silence.

"Who are ye, I want to know? How come you by these shells? I know something about what they're
wuth--that is--well, I know they aint wuth what you say they are, well enough; but they air
wuth a good deal,--I know that. What I want to understand is, what you're after here! What
do you want, and why do you show me these things if--if--you come by them honestly. Hey?"

The Skipper smiled meditatively. "Yes!" he said, "we all like to know things,--part of our
nature, sir--part of our nature. I, now, I like to know things, too. What you going to do with
that boy, Mr. Scrape? I like to know that. You tell me, and perhaps you hear something about
the shells, who know?"

The old man's face darkened into a very ugly look.

"My name is Scraper, thank ye, not Scrape!" he said, dryly; "and as for the boy, I don't know
exactly where you come in there."

The Skipper nodded. "True!" he said, tracing with his finger the fine lines of the Voluta Aulica;
"you do not know where I come in there. In us both, knowledge has a limit, Mr. Scraper; yet
I at the least am acquaint with your name. It is a fine name you have there,--Endymion! You
should be a person of poetry, with this and your love for shells, hein? You love, without doubt,
to gaze on the moon, Sir Scraper? You feel with her a connection, yes?"

"What the dickens are you talking about?" asked the old gentleman, testily. "How much do you
want to swindle me out of for this Junonia, hey? not that I shall buy it, mind ye!"

"Three hundred!" said the Skipper; "and a bargain at that!"

CHAPTER V.

MYSTERY.

John was at work in the garden. At least, so it would have appeared to an ordinary observer;
in reality he was carrying on a sanguinary combat, and dealing death on every side. His name
was George Washington, and he was at Bunker Hill (where he certainly had no business to be),
and the British were intrenched behind the cabbages. "They've just got down into the ground,
they are so frightened!" he said to himself, pausing to straighten his aching back, and toss
the red curls out of his eyes. "See 'em, all scrooched down, with their feet in the earth,
trying to make believe they grow there! But I'll have 'em out! Whack! there goes the general.
Come out, I say!" He wrestled fiercely with an enormous Britisher, disguised as a stalk of
pig-weed, and, after a breathless tussle, dragged him bodily out of the ground, and flung his
headless corpse on the neighbouring pile of weeds.

"Ha! that was fine!" cried the boy. "I shouldn't be a bit surprised if that was George the
Third himself; it was ugly enough for him. Come up here! hi! down with you! Now Jack the Giant-Killer
is coming to help me, and the British have got Cormoran (this was before Jack killed him),
and there's going to be a terrible row." But General Washington waves his gallant sword, and
calls to his men, and says,--

"Good morning, sir! you make a busy day, I see."

It was not General Washington who spoke. It was the Skipper, and he was leaning on the gate
and looking at the boy John and smiling. "You make a busy day," he repeated. "I think there
are soon no more weeds in Sir Scraper's garden."

"Oh, yes!" cried John, straightening himself again, and leaning on his trusty hoe. "There'll
be just as many--I beg your pardon! Good morning! I hope you are well; it is a very fine day.
There'll be just as many of them to-morrow, or next day, certainly. I make believe they are
the British, you see, and I've been fighting all the morning, and I do think they are pretty
well licked by this time; but they don't stay licked, the British don't. I like them for that,
don't you? Even though it is a bother to go on fighting all the days of one's life."

"I also have noticed that of the British!" the Skipper said, nodding gravely. "But now you
can rest a little, Juan Colorado? Sir Scraper is at home, that you call him for me, say I desire
to make him the visit?"

"No, he isn't at home," said John. "He's gone down to the store for his mail. But please come
in and wait, and he'll be back soon. Do come in! It--it's cool to rest, after walking in the sun."

It was the only inducement the child could think of, but he offered it with right good-will.
The Skipper assented with a smile and a nod, and the two passed into the house together.

In the kitchen, which was the living-room of the house, John halted, and brought a chair for
his visitor, and prepared to play the host as well as he could; but the visitor seemed, for
some reason, not to fancy the kitchen. S. 1874 was conquered by the Egyptians
and Egyptian province. 1881 but rose the Mahdi (qv) in S. and tore during the uprising Arabi Pasha
in Egypt, the rule itself. An attempt by the Egyptians under Hicks Pasha, S. conquer wiederzu
ended with the destruction of the Egyptian army at Kaschgil (November 3 1883). The British
sent out in January 1884 Gordon, the Egyptian governor of Sudan had been, according to S., to
recover the population in a peaceful manner, but sent while Egyptian troops under Baker Pasha
to Suakin on the Red Sea to get out of here penetrate S.. The first attempt of the Egyptians
was their defeat at Teb (Feb. 4, 1884) against Osman Digma result. Forwarded British troops under
General Graham won though over the insurgents at Teb (29 February) and Tamanieb (March 13) about
Osman Digma, but was given further advance into the interior. Gordon taught in Khartoum through
friendly Negotiations and nothing has even been trapped by the insurgents. The English marched
under General Wolseley before the Nile to relieve him, but they came too late: Jan 26. 1885 Khartoum
was stormed by the supporters of the Mahdi and Gordon killed. The Egyptian Government decided
not to now the reconquest of Sudan. See Nachtigal, Sahara and S. (Berl. u.Leipz. 1879-89, 3 vols),
James, The wild tribes of the Soudan (2nd edition, Lond, 1884);. Wilson and Felkin, Uganda and
the Egyptian S. (German, Stuttg 1883rd); Paulitschke, Sudan, the countries (Freiburg 1884); Buchta,
S. The under Egyptian rule (Leipzig, 1888).

Exudation (Latin), sweating, Sudatorium, sweating, headlock.

South Australia, Anglo-Australian. Colony understand the whole middle part of the Australian
continent (See map, "Australia") between the Indian Ocean in the south and the Timor Sea in
the N., the 129th L. ° east of Gr. in W. (against Western Australia) and Queensland, New South
Wales and Victoria in O. and consists of 983.655 square kilometers (17.864 SQM) great actual pages,
by the Southern Ocean to 26 ° S. Br enough, and the 1,356,120 square km (24.628 SQM) great
Northern Territory north. About the latter, see the article in question. The real has two p. penetrating
deep into the land of sea inlets: the Spencergolf and the Gulf St. Vincent, formed by the peninsulas
Eyria, York and Cape Jervis, east of letzterm penetrates the Encounterbai, in which the Murray
flows, deeper. Before Vincent Golf is the great kangaroo island the only significant offshore. From Cape
Jervis in the south extends northwards MountLoftykette and thereafter (consisting of sandstone,
shale and limestone) the Flinderskette with the highest elevations (not above 1000 m) of the country.
Only in these mountains and in the immediate neighborhood, in the beautiful Mount Gambierdistrikt
with extinct volcanoes, Basalt and limestone caves in the SO. sufficient rain falls to the
land sufficient for the Agriculture moisten. From south to north shrinks more and more the same,
even against W. and O. There is much to drought, the Gawlerberge on Eyriahalbinsel are completely
dry and bare. are continually flowing rivers are therefore left out of the Murray, the colony
in the SO. flows through and above its mouth, the fresh water lakes Alexandrina and Albert is, not
that many Lakes (Torrens, Eyre, Frome, Gairdner and others) are just terrible salt marshes and its
neighborhood mostly sad desert. Evidently, it was not shells that he had come
to see; and the boy grew more and more mystified. Suddenly the dark eyes lightened; the whole
face flashed into keen attention. What had the Skipper seen? Nothing, apparently, but the cupboard
in the corner, the old cupboard where Mr. Scraper kept his medicines. The old man had sent
John to this cupboard once, when he himself was crippled with rheumatism, to fetch him a bottle
of the favourite remedy of the day. John remembered its inward aspect, with rows of dusty bottles,
and on the upper shelf, rows of still more dusty papers. What could the Skipper see to interest
him in the corner cupboard? Something, certainly! For now he was opening the cupboard, quietly,
as if he knew all about it and was looking for something that he knew to be there.

"Ah!" said the Skipper; and he drew a long breath, as of relief. "True, the words! In the corner
of the parlour, a cupboard of three corners, with bottles filled, and over the bottles, papers.
Behold the cupboard, the bottles, the papers! A day of fortunes!" He bent forward, and proceeded
to rummage in the depths of the cupboard; but this was too much for John's conscience. "I beg
your pardon, sir!" he said, timidly. "But--do you think you ought to do that?"

The Skipper looked out of the cupboard for an instant, and his eyes were very bright. "Yes,
Colorado," he said. "I think I ought to do this! Oh, very much indeed, my friend, I ought to
do this! And here,"--he stepped back, holding something in his hand,--"here, it is done! No
more disturbance, Colorado; I thank you for your countenance.

"Do we now make a promenade in the garden, to see your work? 

Subscription (Latin), the undertaking by name petition to participate in a company or the adoption
of a product, especially a literary work or a work of art, but also to acquire shares or to participate
in a bond (see government debt, S. 204). S. The effect of the subscribers legally binding,
albeit from the other Part of all the promises in terms of both the supply and the quality
the object to be delivered are met. The subscription price is often lower made later than the purchase
price. The collection of subscribers by book salesman is not treated as hawking.

Sub sole (Latin), under the sun.

Substantially (Latin), essential, essential (see substance); tough, strong (of food); material; Substantiality,
essence, self-reliance.

(Substantive nouns, main, Ding word) noun, grammar a person called or thing or of a term. The
term is found in antiquity S. yet, but only at the grammarians of the Middle Ages has arisen that it
derived from the Latin substantia ("Materials") forms.

It expresses the contrast of this particular word

415

Substance
- Subtraction

class to the adjectives (adjectives) that describe
only a single feature.

The ancients divided the page into different classes, which still
in general use Classifications are as follows.

Depending on one page a specific, personal being or a whole class of persons, property or terms
to describe it is a noun proprium (proper name) appellative or nouns (generic name). The appellative
can again abstract noun or Concretum be, according as either something merely something thought
or imagined, or something really in the Existing space means. Other subspecies of the noun are the
appelativum Collectiva (collective words) a set of individuals described, such as people, crowd,
flock, and Materialia (Substance words) such as gold, water, wine, cereals. For historical and
comparative linguistics all these differences do not exist, because the nouns of all types and even the
Adjectives and participles pass continuously into one another, and proper names from an always
Appellative incurred and can be returned to such a, such as Caesar original "killer, murderer", then an
epithet of Gaius Julius Caesar, then the ordinary title of the Roman and later the German "Kaiser",
most recently, in some cases the Germans once again become a proper name is. This page is next
to the main verb parts of speech, and there is no language that lacks the S.. The inflection
of nouns by attached case endings (see case) is called declination.

Substance (Latin), essentially in the ordinary sense of the reason, the essence or the main
content a matter of substance, in contrast to the accident of (sd), the accidental, not essential
Property of a thing.

Thus, for example, referred to as capital assets for purposes of a contrary earnings or interest
rates as its Accidenzien.


There was silence for a moment,--silence, all but the throbbing that seemed as if it must deafen
the child, as it was choking him. He stood looking at the ground, his face in a flame, his
eyes full of hot, smarting tears. Was it he who had stolen the papers? Surely anyone would
have thought so who saw his anguish of confusion. And the Skipper did not speak! And this was
his friend, the first heart-friend the child had ever had, perhaps the only one that would
ever come to him, and he was affronting him, casting him off, accusing him of vileness! Unable
to bear the pain any longer, the child looked up at last, and as he did so, the tears overflowed
and ran down his round cheeks. The dark eyes were as kind as ever. They were smiling, oh, so
tenderly! John hid his face on his blue sleeve, and sobbed to his heart's content; somehow,
without a word, the dreadful pain was gone, and the blessed feeling had returned that this
friend knew all about things, and understood little boys, and liked them.

The Skipper did not speak for a moment, only stood and stroked the boy's curly hair with a
light, soft touch, almost as his mother used to stroke it. Then he said, in his deep, grave
voice, that was sweeter than music, John thought.

"Colorado! my little son, my friend!" That was enough for a few minutes, till the sobs were
quieted, and only the little breast heaved and sank, tremulously, like the breast of a frightened
bird. In places in which there is a lack of natural wallows, suggests one trough-shaped Wells
with a stern Latvians to make the system is running together in the water is not Soil can
seep.

Suhler white copper, nickel alloys see. And yet you like him a little,
is it not?"

"Oh!" cried John, looking up with all his heart in his blue eyes; and no other word was needed.

"See, then!" the Skipper went on, still holding the boy's hand; "it is that you are right,
Colorado, oh, very right, my son! and I, who am old, but old enough to be twice to you a father,
I thought not of this. Yes, you must tell Sir Scraper, if--if I do not tell him first." He
was silent a moment, thinking; and then continued, speaking slowly, choosing his words with
care: "Is it that you think, Colorado, it would be wrong to wait a little before you tell Sir
Scraper--if I said, till to-morrow? If I ask you to wait, and then, if I have not told him,
you shall tell him,--what do you say of that, my son?"

John looked helplessly around, his blue eyes growing big and wistful again. "If--if he should
ask me!" he said. "I am sure you know all about it, and that it is all right for you, but if
he should ask me--you see--I--I should have to answer him, shouldn't I?"

"You would have to answer him!" the Skipper repeated, frowning thoughtfully. "And you could
not tell him that there were flying-fish in the cabin, eh, Colorado? Wait then, that your friend
thinks. The mind moves at times slowly, my son, slowly!"

He was silent, and John watched him, breathless.

Presently, "Will you come with me, Colorado?" asked the Skipper. "I invite you to come, to
spend the day on the 'Nautilus,' to play with Jack and Jim, to polish the shells,--what you
please. I desire not longer to wait here, I desire not that yet Sir Scraper know of my visit.
Had he been here, other happenings might have been; as it is--shortly, will you come with me,
Colorado?"

John shut his eyes tight, and took possession of his soul.

"I promised!" he said, "I promised him that if he would not whip me this morning I would not
stir off the place. He was mad because I went yesterday, and he was going to give me a good
one this morning, and I hadn't got over the last good one, and so--I promised that! But if
I had known you were coming," he cried, "I would not have promised, and I would have taken
three good ones, if I could only go."

The Skipper nodded, and was silent again. Suddenly he rose to his feet.

"Have you heard of pirates, Colorado?" he asked, abruptly.

John nodded, wondering.

"Of Malay pirates?" the Skipper continued, with animation. "They are wild fellows, those! They
come, they see a person, they carry him off, to keep at their fancy, till a ransom is paid,
or till he grow old and die, or till they kill him the next day, who knows? But not all are
bad fellows, and there are some of them who are kind to captives, who take them on board their
ships, play with them, show to them strange things, shells and fish and corals, all things.
Have you ever played at pirate, Colorado?"

"Yes, sometimes," the boy admitted, wondering still more at the brightness in his friend's
look, and his air of sudden determination.

"I never played Malay, only Portugee; I thought they weren't so cruel, but I don't know. I
had a ship down by the wharf, and I made a good many pirate voyages round the wharf, and sometimes
quite a piece down river, when I could get the time. But then, after a while, I thought it
was nicer to be a rescuing ship, and get folks away from the pirates, you know, so I've done
that lately, and I've rescued as many as twenty vessels, I should think."

"That was fine!" said the Skipper, nodding sagely. "That was well done, Colorado! But here
we come to trouble, do you see? for I that speak to you--I am a Malay pirate!"

The boy started violently and looked up, expecting he knew not what sudden and awful change
in the face that bent down over him; but no! it was the same quiet, dark face, only there was
a bright gleam in the eyes. A gleam of fun, was it? Surely not of ferocity.

"I come up this river," the Skipper continued, rapidly, "to see what I find,--perhaps gold,
perhaps silver, perhaps prisoners of value. I look about, I see the pleasant village, I see
persons very amiable, but no precious thing except one; that one, I have it! I am a Malay pirate,
Colorado, and thus I carry off my prize!" and picking up the child as if he were a feather,
and tossing him up to his shoulder, the Skipper strode from the garden, and took his way toward
the wharf.

CHAPTER VI.

MR. BILL HEN.

Mr. Bill Hen Pike had come to have a good long gossip. It was some time since a schooner had
come up the river, for the ice-shipping had not yet begun, and he was fairly thirsting for
maritime intelligence. He desired to know the tonnage of the "Nautilus," her age, where she
was built, and by whom; her original cost, and what sums had been expended in repairs since
she had been in the Skipper's possession; how many trips she had made, to what ports, and with
what cargoes; the weather that had been encountered on each and every trip. These things and
many more of like import did the Skipper unfold, sitting at ease on the cabin table, while
Mr. Bill Hen tilted the only chair in rhythmic content. His hat was tilted, too; his broad
red face shone with pleasure; the world was a good place to him, full of information.

At last the questions came to an end; it seemed a pity, but there was really nothing left to
ask, since it appeared that the Skipper was unmarried and had no relations. But now the Skipper's
own turn had come, and quietly, with just enough show of interest to be polite, he began the
return game. "You have been at sea a large part of your life, Señor Pike?"

"Oh, yes! yes! I'm well used to the sea. That is--off and on, you know, off and on. I was mate
on a coasting schooner, saw a good deal that way, you know; like the sea first-rate, but my
wife, she won't hear to my going off nowadays, and there's the farm to 'tend to, stock and
hay, var'ous things, var'ous things; all about it, my sea-going days are over, yes, yes! Pleasant
place, though, pleasant place, though the strength going out of my legs makes it troublesome
by times, yes, yes! Been in these parts before, you said? Oh, no! said you hadn't; beg your
pardon! Pleasant part of the country! good soil, good neighbours."

"Fine country, I should suppose!" said the Skipper; "and as you say, sir, the persons agreeable
for knowledge. You know the boy whom I hear called John, with the old gentleman who collects
shells?"

"Oh! ho!" said Mr. Bill Hen, delighted to find a fresh subject of interest. "Deacon Scraper,
yes, yes! well named, sir, Deacon Scraper is, well named, you see! Very close man, pizeon close
they do say. Lived here all his life, Deacon Scraper has, and made a fortune. Scraped it, some
say, out of folks as weren't so well off as he, but I don't know. Keen after shells, the old
gentleman, yes, yes! like liquor to him, I've heard say. Never a man to drink or what you might
call royster, no way of the world but just that; but get him off to Boston, or any place where
there were shells to be bought, and he'd come home fairly drunk with 'em, his trunk busting
out and all his money gone. Seems cur'ous, too, for such an old rip as Dym Scraper, to care
for such things; but we're made sing'lar,--one one way, and 'nother one t'other. That's so,
I reckon, in your part of the world as well as hereabouts?"

The Skipper bowed his head gravely. "The nature of humans is without doubt the same in many
lands," he said. "The little boy whom I hear called John,--he is of near blood to this old
gentleman, yes?"

But here Mr. Bill Hen grew redder in the face, which was a difficult feat, and smote the cabin
table.

"Burning shame it is about that youngster!" he declared. "Burning shame, if ever there was
one in this mortal world. How some folks can set by and see things going on as they're going
on, beats me, and le' me say I'm hard to beat. That child, sir, is an orphan; got no father
nor mother, let alone grandf'ther or grandm'ther, in the land of the living. His father was
some kind of a natural, I guess, or else he hadn't known Deacon Scraper by sight or hearing;
but when he dies what does he do but leave that old--old--beetle-bug guardeen of that child,
case of his mother dyin'. Well, if I'd ha' had children, I might leave 'em to a fox for guardeen,
or I might leave 'em to a horned pout, whichever I was a mind to, but I wouldn't leave 'em
to Dym Scraper, and you can chalk that up on the door any ways you like." The good man paused,
and puffed and snorted for some minutes in silence. The Skipper waited, his dark face quietly
attentive, his eyes very bright.

"Near blood?" Mr. Bill Hen broke out again, with another blow on the table. "No, he aint so
dretful near blood, if you come to that. Near as the child's got, though, seemin'ly. His father,
Johnny's father, was son to Freeborn Scraper, the Deacon's twin brother. Twins they was, though
no more alike than pork and peas. Them two, and Zenoby, the sister, who married off with a
furriner and was never heerd of again; but she ain't in the story, though some say she was
her father's favourite, and that Dym gave her no peace, after Freeborn left, till he got rid
of her. All about it, Freeborn went West young, and spent his days there; lived comfortable,
and left means when he died. Show yourself strong, that we talk to them. "

"I am strong," said the young girl, but I just do not understand where
I am, as I come here.

"

"I'll tell the story of the way," laughed Günther, her arm without further ado pulling in his. "Can
you do me a favor and look outside for the Horse that no other disaster
happens - you can go back even if you do, " he whispered to him.

Rounders was stunned. He saw that something unusual - something terrible here The procedure was,
but he did not understand what; Elise was this without even further to his care employed with the
Father, and before he himself came to quite a clear consciousness was had Günther, while he
led the right arm Helena, with his left hand seized him, and moved the trial ends with no resistance
out into the open air, through the garden and on the street, where
he easily threw the door behind him in the castle, and they thereby
All sections of the retreat completely.

Here, however, Helen's brother helped them from the momentary embarrassment,
what with the young lady should start.

As they stepped on the road, he came, he, however, his Horse become master again, back broken,
to search for the sister.

However, fear can show that they could not keep himself alone in the saddle, and asked them,
the horse which was still attached to the lasso to let love lead the city. Helen suggested that
but for a smile.

"I'm used to this kind adventure," she said kindly, "but one thing worries me: so to depart without a
thank you from the family that served me so kind assistance, and the I have this so frightened
and disturbed. "

"I'll excuse you," protested Günther, "and you can visit her later and later . Pay Now I think
it is better for yourself that you return home as soon as possible
and rest there until complete.

The consequences of such a random one usually feels only later, and it is always better to provide
something. "

Gunther got his own will. Rounders got the mold, the trunk of a fallen Tree made it easy for
her to get into the saddle - and soon she held the reins again firmly in hand.

From the moment but as they enter the road again, Helen was as if someone search, seen up and
down, and even her brother, who was now beside her, noticed this.

"Do you need desks life friend," he said, laughing;? "I'm the first in a sad state walk encounters,
and himself, the evil Black sold between thorns and boulders.

If he could prevent it, he was certainly seen in anyone before he
fresh toilet has made, he is tanned bitter.

"

"Was not even a gentleman with you?" But, Helene turned to the still next to her standing Günther,
without the sufferings of life's desk to be considered further -
"the same - If I am not mistaken - which is contrary to my horse threw
"?

"Certainly," replied the demand - "his own animal, but he was running away, however, and he
will probably be followed up to check it. "

"I'm much obliged to you thanks," said the young beautiful girl warmly.

"I do not at all," protested Günther, smiling, "I have no merit, but
that I You've worn in the house, and that - was already its own reward
in itself "

Helen blushed, but said gently, "And may I hope you see again, if you're here spurn the very act my
gratitude? "

"If you allow me I will surely tomorrow you ask if the little accident,
I hope finds no more injurious consequences have had for you.

"

"And," - said Elena, but she held back the word, leaned against the
two friends and said, "Goodbye, then," as the mold already felt the
pressure of her heels and! flew with it in a brisk trot of the colony.

Oskar stayed by her side, and Gunther took Könnern's arm, and led to, though at first resisting,
despite his struggles with down the road, the former were riding
ahead.

9.

Sarno's farewell.

Rounders followed the friends as in a half dream. The last scenes were so rapidly followed one
another, that he could hardly distinguish them from each other, and the odd friend Conduct had to
help him even more confusing. That he should talk but now stand, for he felt that Elise was
needed at that moment his help, knowing he had to Günther why so
much emphasis penetrated them just then left to itself.

are consistent
with this decision, he was Gunther's first arm and said: "Not a Step
further I go with you until you explain your conduct, Günther, to
me the mystery of light that connects you and that old man.

"

"Do you think that I mean well by you mean, do?" Guenther said warmly,
answering the question for now elusive.

"Yes, I sure think so."

"All right, then follow me now in the colony. We must both consult with each other, what to do,
and before it is not, you may not enter that man's house. "

"Do not enter?"

"No - but you will hear everything - but first you answer me one question: What are With that
young girl?

Do you, for God's sake, that it was mere curiosity, "

"You need
no excuse and I said no secret for honest trade," Könnern blushing.

"I love Elise with all your soul - this morning I gave her the confession put my love and I am
sure their love in - we were on our way home to obtain the consent of their parents, when they
knocked on the door. "

"So you have not yet talked with Eliza's parents?" Guenther said quickly.

"Misinterpret my words, Günther," replied Könnern quiet - "what kind
your Secret is, I consider myself firmly bound to the girl that I
belong, body and soul!

"

Günther sighed deeply and remained silent for a few moments, and finally he said warmly, "You
have replied to me just and true, Bernard, and it shall not repent you. As clear and frankly I will
now impart to you all - but let us to our horses go, you want to return immediately afterwards,
it is always in your power. "

"And what did you mean to me," asked rounders who is now at the friend's page, their horses leading by
the bridle, walked slowly down the road - "They need to understand
in which anxiety I just saw that scene has moved.

"

"I understand it," Gunther said quietly, "and will be as short as possible, because only the
outline of my communication have interest to you. Remember that I will once told, as I did
in Germany my whole fortune by a bankruptcy Merchant's lost? "

"I remember it."

That's just about to marry smashed this terrible blow all my hopes. My bride was poor, I myself had
nothing more in the wide world than my knowledge, that would have
me but not in Europe afloat.

So I took the fight with life and went to Brazil, just to start over. How do I know I work here
You, and I am now about to, on my little acquired Capital Germany
return and marry my honest girl, who has faithfully waited for me.

"

"But what has all this to do with that old man?"

"The bankruptcy that bankers," said Guenther dark, "was the flight of his Cassirer brought about.
In that time, when almost no business was safe and collect the merchants Everything had to endure
what they had to money to cover only about their liabilities, fled
he one day with the Casse - it is said, with more than one hundred
thousand dollars - and could Despite the best efforts that we were
not, again obtained.

Some of the creditors then put everything in motion, at least to
find the place where the criminals turned - it was all in vain.

However, once we were on a track that to Brazil and even in this area led, and an agent who knew
that man was sent over, the most accurate research to make - but
without success.

At last today ... "

"Today" - repeated use, and felt that his blood like ice back to the heart occurred.

"Today," went on softly Günther - "I met him. His features were too hard to my Memory imprinted
at home because I had often been in his house, at his table. - He
also recognized me again - you saw his alarm, the pallor of the debt
which him the face so white colored, as it has bleached his hair in
her consciousness.

Had Incidentally, it still needed a confirmation, his wife delivered
the same.

They, too, - which, how was generally claimed that the largest debt was at her husband's crime,
and even it is said to have tricked alone - recognized me again,
and even if they both barely imagine how miserable they made me at
the time, but the fear of driving before the discovery of finite the
blood from her cheeks, the strength of its tendons.

"

"Horrible, horrible," groaned rounders and buried his face in his hands - "and my poor, poor
Elise! "

"I pity the poor girl," went on softly Günther - "they also may not know of the crimes because
she was still a child. The striker will now, with the full consciousness of guilt, take the
more terrible. "

"And what do you do?" Asked can quickly looking at him.

"I know myself yet," Gunther replied softly - "the whole thing broke so surprising fast start that
I still do not have time left to think, think. - I - wanted discuss
with you the fact, rounders.

"

"With me?"

"Especially with you. The old sinner, however, deserves no mercy because he has a lot of time
People made unhappy, not me alone - but the girl because the ... "

"And Elise is thus feel the shock less terrible, they will be less unhappy?"

"Give me time to think," asked Gunther, after again in silence for
a while had pursued their way, "You give me time to reconsider how
best addressed all leave.

But you must feel yourself that now, at this moment, your presence out there was unnecessary. The
stranger in such districts would have the horror of the situation only increased further, to say nothing
of it, that it would be for you yourself have been embarrassing. "

"But the uncertainty of their fate is still so much terrible burden on the poor!"

"That they have richly deserved," Guenther said darkly, take "the most difficult and what they
could, would weigh the misery they donated, not the thousandth part to! "

Könnern sighed deeply and stared down at himself, as Günther put his arm around his shoulder
and said:

"Poor friend - you are also hard hit hard, as hard it must be quite hard to see the first bloom
of love Sun bent! "

"And you think I could ever leave Elise?" Cried can quickly look up to - "The child should suffer
the guilt of the parents, the Old Testament Proverbs for revenge? What would become of her when
she stood alone in the world with the thought that even the faithless away from her, which she
gave her whole, rich as our own heart? "

"It is beautiful and noble of you thought," Gunther said with a sigh, "but you want your wife expose
the wickedness of the reputation, if you go back to Germany? Hold the Ethnicity your wife so
secret you do, can they always betray an unfortunate accident, and
you could - even with the awareness of such danger - of your life
even a Moment to be happy?

"

"What I care about the verdict of the crowd, shouted defiantly rounders," who always just pleasure on
the misfortune of their neighbor has?

"

"You might not, but you believe that your wife endure the scorn of society could, at least without
feeling unhappy and miserable? "

"Then we go back to Brazil," exclaimed rounders. "I refuse the home of the Fortunately, I could
enjoy it, then it also has no right to further my love for demand, and the stranger might be
my country and stay. Lose not a word more about Günther - I know you mean well and have your
way, perhaps even Right - but you just do me hurt and are not capable
of something at my firm resolve to change.

"

"Enough of that, my good talent," said Guenther, reaching his hand and his warm oppressive, "I
honor your noble heart, and this hour will bind us just now fixed! Maybe can also make everything
even more favorable than we think now.

No one yet knows to the secret, as we both, because fortunately we have the Comtesse still to the left
Given moment. What happened but now has can not be discussed on the open road be - to hurry
is also nothing, and we want to sleep upon both the matter quiet. Tomorrow we all see with colder
blood and can then decide calmly what happened should. Here we approach moreover also the colony,
and it is better we sit on.

The new director has already arrived, is not it?

I see at least appreciate his subordinates, a few drunken soldiers
who wander around now idle in the city and nothing but Will instigate
mischief.

"

"However - a few days ago, and it is even possible that Sarno tonight
Colony leaves, to go by steamer to Rio up.

Anyway, he is over of the morrow to leave. "

"Then let us austraben a little faster," said Guenther, "because I
want him happy still speak "- and his horse, spurs, he galloped down
the street. - The way he looked at ease around for Felix, because
he had given him no rendez-vous and did not know where he could have
turned today evening.

But Santa Clara was look not so great that he would have him long
after, and in the course of the day he was pretty sure to meet him
somewhere.

Sarno, they found at home and busy with packing. When she came to him in the room, he turned
around after Gunther and cried, laughing: "You almost had me here
no more found.

All weather, the President has had a rush! "

"If you follow my advice, do not," said Guenther. "The President has no Right you so readily dismiss
without important reasons of your service. Stay here and send me the steamer to Rio. I would
garantir that I have a counter-order bring. "

"Thank you, Lord of Schwartzau," said Sarno dry - "but I did not feel like me to quarrel here
with the Lord Director around, only under such circumstances, very doubtful Honor, to remain
director. Moreover, the Lord is also equal to a division of soldiers welcome and would not
delay to take themselves violent possession of the building direction. "

could be "Then I arrive there."

"I do not. With this president, or rather his wife at the top thank woman I also for the post.
Yes, because a change would be made, it is a pleasure, but what the conditions are not now.
I am determined that after the steamer Rio to drive. "

"Good, then I follow you. In a short time I finished my work here of all the have, and then we'll talk
another word about this Präsidialwirthschaft that under each Condition of an end must be done.
I've heard hair-raising things in Santa Catharina and evidence in hand, with the most respectable
people of the island to witness.

Which is the Government in Rio do not close their ears. "

"I am very grateful for your efforts, but it will not help," Sarno said, shrugging - "Here
in Brazil is now once all his usual routine, and only those who do not dirty hands afraid, can
work up alone. I adapt to this kind but intrigues not, and will begin again my quiet surveying where I
at least only Work and had no trouble. "

"But you stay, till I come, in Rio?"

"I'm under five or six weeks will not get away from there."

All the
better - then we meet anyway. Do you live? "

"In the hotel Pharoux."

"Beautiful
farther. I need nothing"

? And Könnern asked Sarno and saw a smile
to his young friends - "You have reussirt? But the hell, man, you
look so melancholy! I would hope not but that you a basket to bring
home? "

"Elise is my wife," said fixed-rounders.

"And you cut a
face, laughed Sarno," as if you encounter the greatest misfortune
would be. You have something on your mind ... "

"Yes," she said hesitantly
rounders - "it is - something happened, that my happiness does not
interfere, but but postpones, allow me, however, that I still keep
silent about it. "

! My dear, dear friend, "Sarno said good-naturedly
-" You do not, for God's sake; that I have you want sound out? "

to
"You know all that because I am to give you," replied rounders, "but
- I must first itself be with me in mind. Before leaving Rio, I see
you there anyway, for me, too, before that, my financial transactions
compel you to visit the capital. Who I have since also in Santa Clara,
if you leave both the place? "

"Then we meet So all in Rio, and now
you come and help me a little to tackle that I get the damned boxes
and suitcases in order. The white of evil, what you bring together
a quantity of baggage, if you are only a few years of stayed in one
place! It was lucky that my master's of riding - by a negotiator of
course - can buy my furniture has, truly I would otherwise hire an
Auction. "

How Günther helped arrange the two friends now his stuff,
since the departure of the Steamer this evening was set, and Sarno
against four clock, around the back going to use flood embark, had
to. A lot of people, and that is the most respectable of the colony,
came today to say farewell to their former Director and to assure
him, as sorry they do, that he was leaving. Then came the transport
of luggage to the boat, which Jeremiah had taken over, and made his
handcart wonders.

The road to the landing was not as close, but he
went from the door of the building Direction always quiet down, and
the little strong guy invited enormous quantities of suitcases and
Boxes, with which he then in sharp trot and literally bathed in sweat,
but still good humor, its destination hurried.

The last load of the
three friends came together, and lay down at the boat landing All
the Soldiers stretched out lazily in the shade and watched, sent away
"like the old director was." They also laughed at each other and made
their cheeky comments, but none of the three paid attention to them.
The various Colli were taken on board, and now turned Sarno before
returning to their former faithful factotum, Jeremiah, who retreated
modestly and had stood beside his empty cart.

"Come here, old friend,"
he said to him - "You're the last person to have a claim on I was.
"

"If you could but did not want to mention, Mr. Director, 'said
Jeremiah, and the tears while he stood in his eyes - "the devil take
it, I wanted - it would be the other, the I should have shut cart! Franci dies every time he
see a snake, and come to life only to find out if somebody else is killed. See, my son, how
beautiful the moon on the water! Let us look for a few moments, to take the beauty into us,
and then I must send my little friend to his bed, that nothing harmful comes to him."

So they sat hand in hand for awhile, gazing their fill, saying nothing; there was the same
look in the two faces, so widely different. The little boy, with his clear brow, his blue eyes
limpid as a mountain pool, shining with the heavens reflected in them; the dark Spaniard (if
he were a Spaniard!) with lines of sadness, shadows of thought and of bitter experience, making
his bronze face still darker; what was there alike in these two, who had come together from
the ends of the earth? The thought was one, in both hearts, and the look of it shone in the
eyes of both as they sat in the moonlight white and clear. What was the thought? Look into
the face of your child as it kneels to pray at close of day! Look into the face of any good
and true man when he is lifted above the things of to-day, and sees the beauty and the mystery,
and hears the eternal voices sounding!

  "'Morning, evening, noon and night,
  Praise God!' sang Theocrite."

CHAPTER VIII.

IN THE NIGHT.

The evening had been peaceful, all beauty and silence; but not so the night for the boy John.
Something was the matter; he could not sleep. The bunk in the little cabin was comfortable
enough for anyone, but to him it was a couch for an emperor. He speculated on the probability
of George the Third's having had anything like so luxurious a bed, and rejected the thought
as absurd. There were no lumps in the mattress, neither any holes through which sharp fingers
of straw came out and scratched him. The red curtains at the sides could be drawn at will,
and, drawing them, he found himself in a little world of his own, warm and still and red. The
shells were outside in the other world; he could look out at any moment and see them, and touch
them, take them up; his friend had said so. Now, however, it seemed best just to be alive,
and to stay still and wonder what would become of him. He heard the Skipper come down and go
to bed, and soon the sound of deep, regular breathing told that he slept, the man of wonder;
but John could not sleep. And now other thoughts came thronging into his mind, thoughts that
were not soft and crimson and luxurious. To go away, as the Skipper had said,--to go to heaven!
But one did not go to heaven till the time came. Was it right? Was the Skipper a good man?

The child debated the question with anguish, lying with wide open eyes in his crimson-shaded
nest. Mr. Scraper was--not--very nice, perhaps; but he had taken him, John, when his mother
died, and fed and clothed him. He had often had enough to eat--almost enough--and--and Mr.
Scraper was old, and perhaps pretty soon his legs would go to sleep, like old Captain Baker's,
and he would not be able to walk at all, and then how would it be if he were left alone? Perhaps
people would not come to help him, as they had helped the captain, because everybody in the
village loved the captain, and no one exactly loved Mr. Scraper. So if the only person who
belonged to him at all should go off and leave him, how could it be expected that the folks
who had their own grandfathers and things to take care of would stop and go to take care of
this old man? And if he should die there, all alone, with no one to read to him or bring him
things, or feed him with a spoon, why,--how would it seem to himself, the boy John's self,
when he should hear of it?

"I am a murderer!" he said aloud; and straightway, at the sound of his own voice, cowered under
the bedclothes, and felt the hangman's hand at his neck.

What did it mean, when a person could not sleep?

There was a man in an old book there at the house, and he was wicked, and he never could sleep,
never at all. The things he had done came and sat on him, and they were hot, like coals, and
the heat went through to his heart and burned it. Would it be so with him, if he should go
away in the "Nautilus," and forget--or try to forget--the old man who had nobody to love him?
Not that Mr. Scraper wanted to be loved yet, at all; but--but he might, some time, when his
legs had gone to sleep, and then--

Sometimes, when a person could not sleep, it meant that he was going to die. Suppose one were
to die now, and go to heaven, and they said to one, "How was Mr. Scraper when you came away?"
and one had to say, "I ran away and left him this evening, and I don't know how he is, or whether
he is alive or dead--for sometimes old people die just like that, dropping down in their chairs--what
would they say to one? Perhaps the old man had dropped down now, this very night, from anger
at his being away when he should have done the chores". He saw Mr. Scraper sitting in his arm-chair,
cold and dead, with the rats running over the floor at his feet, because he, John, had not
set the trap. A scream rose to his lips, but he choked it back; and sitting up in desperation,
drew aside the red curtains and looked out.

The cabin lay dim and quiet before him. A lantern hung in the middle, turned low, and by its
light he could see the shelves, with their shining rows of shells, and the glass counter with
the sea-jewelry. Directly opposite him, only the narrow space of the cabin between, lay the
Skipper in his bunk, sleeping peacefully. The wild fear died away in the child's heart as he
saw the calmness and repose of the stalwart figure. One arm was thrown out; the strong, shapely
hand lay with the palm open toward him, and there was infinite cheer and hospitality in the
attitude. In the dim light the Skipper's features looked less firm and more kind; yet they
were always kind. It was not possible that this was a bad man, a stealer of children, a pilferer
of old men's cupboards.

If one could think that he had been playing all the time, making believe, just as a person
did one's self; but John had never known any grown people who could make believe; they had
either forgotten, or else they were ashamed of the knowledge. Once, it was true, he had persuaded
Mr. Bill Hen Pike to be Plymouth Rock, when he wanted to land in the "Mayflower;" but just
as the landing was about to be effected, Mrs. Pike had called wrathfully from the house, and
the rock sprang up and shambled off without even a word of apology or excuse. So grown people
did not understand these things, probably; and yet,--yet if it had been play, what glorious
times one could have, with a real creese, and a real schooner, and everything delightful in
the world!

How could he be bad and look like that? The child bent forward and strained his eyes on the
sleeping face. So quiet, so strong, so gentle! He tried putting other faces beside it, for
he saw faces well, this boy, and remembered what he had seen. He tried Mr. Scraper's face,
with the ugly blink to the red eyes, and the two wrinkles between the eyes, and the little
nest of spiteful ones that came about his mouth when he was going to be angry; even when he
slept--the old gentleman--his hands were clenched tight--how different from that open palm,
with its silent welcome!--and his lips pursed up tight. No! no! that was not a pleasant picture!
Well, there was Lena! she was pleasant to look at, surely! Her hair was like silver, and her
eyes blue and soft, though they could be sharp, too. But, somehow, when her face was brought
here beside the Skipper's, it looked foolish and empty, and her pretty smile had nothing to
say except to bid one look and see how pretty she was, and how becoming blue was to her; and--and,
altogether, she would not do at all.

Mr. Bill Hen, then, who was always kind to him, and quite often, when. Mrs. Pike was not near,
would give him a checkerberry lozenge. Mr. Bill Hen's face was good-natured, to be sure, but
oh, how coarse and red and stupid it was beside the fine dark sleeping mask! Why did people
look so different, and more when they were asleep than any other time? Did one's soul come
out and kind of play about, and light up the person's face; and if so, was it not evident that
the Skipper was a good man? and that perhaps things were really different in his country, and
they had other kinds of Ten Commandments, and--no, but right was right, and it didn't make
any difference about countries in that sort of thing. But now that she sees that it goes forward, she
    finds into better, and in the next few years I hope all be good.
    "

    
    "Father is very happy now, he is from early on by the hand, and
    measures and records, and orders, and if he also sometimes quarrel
    with the people who do not want to Make as Much as it is for good,
    so he gets the little excitement quite well because he is big and
    fat it, and looks good and kicking off.

    "
    
    "But now enough of us, me and us all the concern expressed as it to
    you in your new life is going, my heart, and if you yourself
    from Your illness recovered fully. Lord of Hopfgarten, the Dir tell
    a lot of us will, of course, you promised us themselves to visit,
    and to pay us accurate report, but we would also like to see it by
    yourself in writing that you are well is, keeps his word to your dear
    husband, and brings you to us. We look forward to infinity, and
    until then we are already better established than now. Our address
    do I write to you down here very well.

    How are you getting Hedwig, she is happy and ? Healthy "-
    
    "But I must close now, people come out with the a cow that we had
    run away, and after they have the all day were looking for,
    is in the kitchen to do so much, I can not sit here any longer,
    I only wanted you can at least know how we are doing. So live
    quite well, Greetings to your dear husband and Hedwig very nice
    of us Allen, as I am also all for you lot applied a thousand greetings
have, and remember sometimes friendly

Your Marie.

    "

Ninth chapter

Lord of Hopfgarten adventure.

Hopfgarten reached after a short and not unpleasant ride the small town of Hollow Field, from
the beginning but he really believed he has returned to Grahamstown as possible one another.
Only the inn sign was different: the ugly bust any human figure with
great Allongenperrücke and in a blue uniform is buttoned, the Signature,
must be well respected internally, externally here but sadly mistreated
Name "George Washington" was wearing.

In due time he arrived was, incidentally, for the mail coach or post coach was standing moved out
before the "Washington Hotel" and in a leather containers, the rear of the slightly helpless-looking
wagon was attached, as in the front in the box under the driver's seat (Called by the English
boots) were just a couple of young boys busy small insert suitcases,
travel bags, hat boxes, and other passenger common items, and - Where
they have not willingly add to the limited space wanted - hineinzutreten
with their feet.

This coach was within her nine people, eight passengers were already enrolled but which is outside
him, only two went to Vincennes, and after its passage, the German
money paid, he had treated the satisfaction of his own travel bag
in the same way to see how the baggage of his post companions.

With a little distrustful eyes, he looked the way from the start of him yet New American transport
agent, however, compared with his sisters in Europe, Some things to do was poor. Incidentally,
the box seemed strong enough to build even the most serious Vicissitudes of their trip to face
bravely. The "feathers" were made of strips of raw skin, and the coach himself had only, as was Lord
of Hopfgarten, on closer inspection, a single door in the left side. Three seats were installed
in the interior, each for three people, with the most passengers on a moving medium and also
in rawhide hanging Bank came to sit, and were allowed to put their backs against another wide leather
belt. Instead of padding in the corners - the door had a glass washer
- hung on the sides of leather Curtain down, which could be up and
settled at pleasure of the passengers.

So far everything was good to board, which of course for the whole of passengers only by the a
door was found, but that Hopfgarten, as the last passenger, the middle one place get to the Central
Bank had the most, and thus of course, every reference to his Head was robbed. He had to keep the
same constantly in limbo, and could only hope to get into a corner when some of the other
passengers who were not quite up to Vincennes drove, got out. The horses were biased, the passengers
climbed into their seats, the German as the second last, the blow was thrown. "All right," cried
the servant, or a similar individual who seemed to feel very independent, but otherwise, the
four lively, pretty well kept cents to subject, and with a terrible shock, which even the quality
of the leather band was rehearsing back, in motion, the car suddenly rattled to the cheers of
the young people of Hollow Field in full flight to the small Place
and into the woods.

The reader, who never raced in an American coach, even for a notion the jerky motion, even only
intermittently to teach would be impossible, and Hopfgarten thanked
after the first quarter of an hour to God that left him no time in
Hollow Field been to take a proper meal, he would have had to endure
the torments of hell.

One other inconvenience, he escaped again but not the spitting of Americans he had since his
first steam boat noticed, and it seemed to him have been fatal without the harassed him further,
but here, in the narrow space of the coach-box, he came to the people in such close contact that
he use the disgusting could not walk out of the way and soon found to his horror as he really
wanton in a most dire situation As was brought into it. That the other passengers through the open
window of the shock a fairly regular fire from ausgespritztem Tabackssaft talking was allowed, it
naturally not astonish, he had it even if was not prepared to such a degree. The genirte him
so no more, he closed his eyes and gave himself up with it until he have used a little more about
it would be his own thoughts, but the ill-fated passenger to his right, who sat with him on the
same Bret, as the front in the right Corner - and the latter even more than the first - soon
brought him to despair. The good people namely, long hulking Hoosier, [17], besides, did not
know what they do with her legs had to because the leather strapped down by her side, was obliquely
at him and spit him away to reach the car window, and though the middle passenger tried in the beginning
between their knees hit the floor, so that was rather worse than the first. Hopfgarten could
never get the slightest reason to complain, because not even the smallest syringe of met him,
so cleverly directs the boys to brown juice where they wanted him. But despite this, in the
next hour, perhaps sixty Time experience gained, he could not help after each expectoration itself
down , To see to make sure of the status quo of his coat and his trousers until he finally - the
last man blunts itself against Tabackssaft - a battered wool Blanket pulled around him and
this cost factor is determined undertook to pay attention to nothing further.

All the passengers seemed to farmers from the neighborhood or from Vincennes to be - even a
Quaker, who was between them - partly for the cattle trade, and partly to other such purposes,
the Ohio between Cincinnati and the small settlements and the mouth the Wabash had visited. The
conversation was a link between the spitting and rattles and shaking of the car, solely to cattle
and pigs, corn prices and "what flour and whiskey were worth. "The area was also quite the same,
the forest where the eye enough, only occasionally interrupted by small settlements, which are
always on some time before noticeable by the way was muddy. It was here at all more rain than
the river, or rather still raining as soon as they come down individually Showers proved. The
paths that now and then over a small open meadow and natural spots - First foothills of the prairies
- led, were always soft and rough, and the vigorous Galop with their journey began shrinking,
most recently matched to a tough step, in which to drag the panting horse and cart, the unwieldy
by the heavy clay soil had.

       * * * * *

Here and there they stopped at small inns poor enough looking at some refreshment which was always
spiced with brandy in all shapes and blends, to eat, but otherwise the trip went forward quickly
without interruption, and the various driver, with good horses, always
did, really all it can to move forward.

       

* * * * *

So broke in the night, the rain became stronger, the road impassable; everywhere were here broken
down branches and twigs, even overturned tribes, stalking it often quarter-hour cost, Kreutzer
and queer over it, while already in the help of individual passengers claim had to be taken to
the front in the "boot" from lying ax, the worst obstacles to hit the road. If they pass sometimes
a deep sump body in the street remained even left them nothing but about the way to haun a
new path. Hopfgarten had is this "small Hülfsleistungen" of which the brave Hoosiers often
very wet and muddy returned, and gave off a terrible haze in the car until now escape still knew
and was uphill despite repeated taunts of the others, and down quietly in the car sitting
still. As long as he could get was the dry matter even more unbearable, and then they took a
few hours longer to Vincennes and missed the Cincinnati Post, what's
that?

He then spent a few days there and looked at the Neighborhood, such as the one beginning Illinois
prairies.

Slowly the heavy crockery rattled, however, now almost at every stroke of the curses and imprecations
accompanied the impatient passengers, stormy by the wild Night. The wind howled in the trees, and
the rain fell with such force against the established to protect leather, that even the most
willing concern of today's head wagging about the possibility of repeated folding. Contrary
to expectations was the coach But now on better ways to quickly and
alive, and then screened again thend in softer ground, slowly and
painfully forward, but at least forward, and the forest here was much
more open than in the places they passed the evening, and the way
of wood almost entirely free.

It might become his elf clock, they just had another small town with some a great name to leave,
and the outgoing coach, gave them new some well-intentioned warnings about the now passive leaders
"blossom green swamp" (the green swamp, where flowers) when they heard splashing out at the
wheels. Rasch also seeing noticed them as they provide a set of laughter or Dümpel, now in
the rain one ordinary small lake formed passed, with the country here seemed flat and level,
and the Wheels cut deeply into the spongy ground. They took about half an hour to they regained
comparatively drier ground, that is not the least reason completely under water. Here began
anew on hill ground, his first slippery Hang it up laboriously worked just as the car, as
on the other side quickly drove down to the left to go to deep striking began. The of the passengers,
had begun to nod a little, were fast enough gay, and "Hey driver! (Driver) " One of the people screaming
now with thin whistling, nasal voice - "what do you do because out there - but to throw your
not? - I've only got about half a mile to widow go to Jones's, but until then you will keep the
damn old box in motion? "

"Damn Jones's widow," was not just the polite, softly growled response of the charioteer, who,
having to do with the weather in his harness and the horses more
than they should "go to grass widow Jones"; give to the cargo, luggage
and passengers, eight.

"In fact, friend, the car starts to said disproportionately inclined to go" at this moment The
Quakers, who until then, even in the places where they stopped, less than ten words spoken
had, by itself, if that was possible, at risk of the side continuing
to Mr manufacture of Hopfgarten in a vague sense of the balance, urged
- "You will not knock it '?

He had his sentence not quite finished when the right front wheel to increase, a stone or branch
aground; a moment the carriage rolled through the rapidly attracting Horse swept away, carrying
on the two left wheels to the next moment, under the Outcry of all
the inmates, heavy to the left, through knock on the side at which
the only door was located.

The confusion that now was inside was horrible, all dug and pushed by each other, only once
to come first to his feet and the clamor for the driver to "unbutton"
that she "could get to windward" from the "damn box," drowned everything
else and of course they did in this first did not hear what was going
on outside.

The "Driver" which, however, still while the horses stood happily, again had picked up the mud
thrown him in the first shock, came now to the car ascended, the
cry of distress of the passengers to follow, but not about this to
please but because he is without the help of his dishes, of course,
could never again raise.

"Hell and damnation," he cursed loud enough to be understood in the beard of each word while
he felt in the dark for buttons and buckles of leather curtains, to this open and allow its passengers
into the open - "man must since a cursed Band of idle loafers and idlers in night and fog driving
around in the world, and its suitable necks, such as risk Irishman his horses - if they took
only the devil, the whole sponge bewilderedly in the cage as they squat. - Da Luv "He then
closed his flattering address by he threw back the leather finally opened, and the now extremely
low tide existing rain between the unfortunate passengers into left - "now you can do you a
kindness and even see how it is out there - now we are long gone
enough and should a piece of go on foot.

"

Was the driver the way a bad mood, it was the passengers even more, and only the weather Stock
and darkness prevented maybe a serious fight between one or the other of the band, rough with
the driver.

But here was no time for contemplation, for the longer they stood beside the overturned car,
the longer the rain poured on them down and the sooner they picked up the back, the faster
they came back into the dry.

"Awkward livestock from a driver," shouted one of the Hoosier However, the last of the Car was
parked, and in vain at home after his hat fell down feeling "goes first into the blue into it,
and then makes the mouth too full of insults. Where did you get your Driving learned Langbein,
heh? - You I should like once in eight days with their hands.

"

"Never Mind Bill," shouted another man to "come out of the trap and press your shoulder here in
that we get the damn thing back in the air. So here - raises boys - Ahoy-y - you, Dutchman smaller
you are the shorter of us, but once you crawl underneath, he falls back again. "

Lord of Hopfgarten, this was the genial salutation thought, but do not think its impact to make,
and his own chair back to the rest of the whole car give away, with touch he had but, he did
not want to stay keep the night there in the mud, and the combined Efforts of the passengers
it was because finally the heavy car back to its to make wheels and
luggage have fallen out by the light of a lamp - the other had gone
before, and then also to the abundance of broken in the fall, gather
up.

The driver had however complicated the dish of the horses in order and scrambled the care of
the luggage of all passengers leaving, with an "Oops grabs you again inside, all with one another,
to the next hole "back in his seat, where he, as slamming the carriage door to him was the
signal, single-cut with new curses on the horses.

The condition of the passengers inside the way, was, notwithstanding that they are now at least outside
the Rain were protected, a very mislicher because soaked to the skin,
hands and feet fully Mud, they could not remember anything to add
a comfortable rest.

The Coachman's ominous words - "they should enter to the next hole," they sounded attending still
in the ears, and in fact Prattyush the spinning of the car, in the them over and over were thrown
that they survived the worst places not had.

Half an hour later, however, they have to widow Jones, and increased their half-frozen Members
- except the Quakers, who drank no spirits - in a glass vile Cognac,
half and half warm water, sulfuric acid, but it was kept here any
longer, and a passenger got out of here after they called out, laughing,
"if they just down umwürfen the hill again, they should just call,
and he would then down with the lantern come together and they are
looking for.

"

Despite the uncomfortable ride by the way, and despite the rain that began niederzupeitschen more sharply,
during the night was dark and stormy, the humor seemed to be in the tight with people crammed
box but to finally win the upper hand, described the passengers to each other the situations
in which it found itself, as the car capsized laughed about the individual desperate cries, and
even the outrageous rudeness of the driver, and were this known together than they would probably
become the most beautiful weather. You already started to really again a soothing feeling of security
to give as the car's on a new all together throwing jerk that - and then was stuck. In vain
were all lashes, and curses the "drivers, the car was stuck and was
not on the to take place, and the passengers had to, despite the weather,
once again out.

This was now, however, that the right front wheel moved into an old root was, from which it
could be easily released again, but as it looked closer, erwieß is that two memory are broken, under
the heavy weight of eight passengers not a hundred yards would have held far more. The next
ordinary inn was also seven miles away, and of all the forced, if the damaged Wheel could not
patch together again, until then to have to walk through the night. The went to meet the young farmers
and cattle dealers, who veers well with such things knew it, the damage as much as possible
to repair again. would on a flat road the wheel well and the few miles still held, and it's because
tried and rose again one. Dear God, the first tree stump to which it came, was more and more
softened Belt to yield, nor did the other spoke, but not long, rocky over a distance Ground cracked
and chipped then driving it again, and jump out before half the passengers could hit the box around the
second time.

To use again was no longer thinking, only one rod was cut down, forward and transversely mounted
in the right axis down to keep the car upright, and then some experiments even for the most
part found the luggage is too heavy, thus be transported to. The driver was now, however, the
proposal to All the case and pile up sacks here somewhere under a tree, and a while as they
watch behind. For this purpose, but did not want to be alone No one understand, but no one
to leave his luggage, and the coachman was about as far as is true in the Passagiergut Cart so
as to allow space long before it actually could not further be, then it would Each bear.

The baggage was really in the muddy road but not too heavy for the broken Wheel and the spurious
pole, but at least for the horses, the wagon with the sharply restrictive Finally stumbling block could hardly
be dragged. The Americans had indeed cut down rods, who had to serve as a lifting trees, the car,
where he got stuck again lifted out, and not to stay strictly to sit on the street, but it was
the last even longer, and the baggage had to be out and shouldered. The horses could not bring
it on. Behold
it, the will, made by my grandfather, the father of my poor mother, whose soul, with his, rest
in eternal glory! By this, my mother, and I after her, inherit this house, this garden, these
possessions such as they are. If I desire, son of mine, I may come here to-day to live, sell
the 'Nautilus,' or cut her cable and let her drift down the river, with Rento and Franci, and
all the shells; and I may live here in my house, to--what do you say? cultivate my lands, eat
grass and give it to the cattle? What think you, Colorado? Is that a life? Shall I lead it,
as is my right? Have I not had enough, think you, of roving over the sea, with no place where
I may rest, save the heaving ocean, that rests never beneath the foot? Shall we turn out this
old wicked man, who did to death his old father, who made my mother go sad of heart to her
grave, who has done of all his life no kind act to any person--shall we turn him out, and live
in peace here, you and I?"

The child came near to him, and laid his hand on his friend's knee, and looked up in his face
with troubled eyes.

"I am not very bright," he said, "and you think so many things so quickly that I do not know
what you mean a good deal of the time. But--but Cousin Scraper took me when my people died,
and he has taken care of me ever since, and--and he has no one else to take care of him now."

"Yes, the fine care he has taken of you!" said the Skipper. "You are of skin and bone, my child,
and there are marks on your skin of blows, I saw them yesterday: cruel blows, given from a
bad heart. You have worked for him, this ancient fish-skin, how long? Of wages, how much has
he paid you? Tell me these things, and I will tell you how much it is your duty to stay by him."

But John shook his head, and the shadows deepened in his blue eyes.

"You cannot tell a person those things," he said; "a person has to tell himself those things.
But thank you all the same," he added, fervently; "and I love you always more and more, every
day and every minute, and I always shall."

"Now the question is," said the Skipper, shrugging his shoulders in mock despair, "must I turn
pirate in truth, to gain possession of a child whom I could hold in my pocket, and who would
give all his coloured hair from his head to go with me? Go away, son of mine, that I reflect
on these things, for you try my soul!"

John withdrew, very sad, and wondering how it was that right and wrong could ever get mixed.
He thought of looking in some of the old books to see, but, somehow, books did not appeal to
him just now. He went up to his own little room, and took down the china poodle, and had a
long talk with him; that was very consoling, and he felt better after it; it was wonderful
how it cleared the mind to talk a thing over with an old friend. The poodle said little, but
his eyes were full of sympathy, and that was the main thing. By-and-by, as the child sat by
his little window, polishing the pearl-shell on his sleeve, and thinking over the strange events
of the last few days, there came to him from below the sound of voices. The doctor was there,
evidently; perhaps Mr. Bill Hen, too; and little as he felt inclined to merriment, John fell
into a helpless laughter, as he recalled the look of that worthy man when he was discovered
flattened against the door. How much older one grew sometimes in a short time! Mr. Bill Hen
used to look so old, so wise, and now he seemed no more than another boy, and perhaps rather
a foolish boy. But seeing the Skipper made a great difference in a person's life.

Presently the door at the foot of the stairs opened, and John heard his name called; he hastened
down, and found Mr. Scraper sitting up in bed, looking pale and savage, but in full possession
of his faculties. The doctor was there, a burly, kind-eyed man, and Mr. Bill Hen was there,
and the Skipper; and when little John entered, they all looked at him, and no one said anything
for a moment.

At length the doctor broke the silence.

"I understand, sir," he said, addressing the Skipper, "that you have a paper, a will or the
like, substantiating your claims?"

"I have!" the Skipper replied. "The letter received by my mother, shortly before her death,
was dictated by my grandfather, and told that, hearing for many years nothing from his son,
this child's grandfather, he had made a will in her favour. This, being timorous, he had not
dared to show to anyone, neither to send her a copy, but he bade her send a messenger to make
search in a certain cupboard of this house, on a certain shelf, where would be found this paper.
My mother dying, commended to me this search. I at that time was a youth on adventures bent,
with already plans for eastern voyages. Keeping always the letter in my pouch, and in my heart
the desire of my mother, I came, nevertheless, not to this part of the world; years come and
go, Señor, swiftly with men of the sea, and these shores seemed to me less of attraction than
Borneo and other places where were easily to be found my wares. Briefly, I came not; till this
year, a commission from a collector of some extent brought the 'Nautilus' to New York. And
then, say I, how then if I go on, see this my inheritance, discover if it may profit me somewhat?
I come, I discover my revered uncle, unknown to him. Is the discovery such that I desire to
fall on his respected bosom, crying, 'My uncle, soul of my family, behold your son!' I ask
you, Señors both! 

"Everything that breathed rounders -" Lord of Schwartzau has told me last night all because
I had to know it when I help and advise. "

"Thank God," sighed Elise, "then I will at least save!

I had before feared. "

"And has your father, Elise ..."

"He has poured his whole heart," said his daughter - "his entire, terrible Debt known and - let
me guess still much more terrible, which "drove him to - she added
softly and shyly. "The trouble is, however, fallen so suddenly upon
us, that I myself sometimes like a bad, terrible dream appears, from
which I finally , Had to wake up because it could not even be possible
that it true - that he really was. The time appears to me accepted. I enter, I search, I find the cupboard,
I find the paper. Briefly, Señors both, behold me possessor of this house, this garden, this
domain royal."

He handed a paper to the doctor, who read it carefully, and nodded. Mr. Scraper made an attempt
to clutch it in passing, but grasped the air only.

"What then, in finality, do I say?" the Skipper went on. "Do I desire to stay in this place? 

Styrum (Stirum) Fabrikort in Prussian. Region Dusseldorf, district Mülheim ad Ruhr, far from
the Ruhr and to line-Ruhrort Holzwickede the Prussian State Railways, has an evangelical and a Catholic.
Church, a lock (root location of the counts of S.), a large iron (to Oberhausen) Manufacture of refractory
bricks and glue (1885) 8896 mostly Catholic. Inhabitants.

Styx in Greek mythology, the eldest daughter of Oceanus and Tethys, hastened by first all the
gods with their children Zelos (zeal), Nike (Victory), Kratos (Power) and Bia (violence) them
from Pallas, the son of the Titan Krios, born to Zeus against the Titans for help. But he kept her children
in the Mount Olympus and he raised himself to the goddess oath of the immortals. She lives as a
nymph of the mighty river S. flowing as an arm of the Okeanos underground and (after a later performance)
flows through the underworld nine times in the far west in a overshadowed by high cliffs and pillars
of silver worn house. If a dispute among the gods can only be solved by an oath, so Iris up
from their holy water into gold Pot, and woe to the person who swears wrong with this water.
The river was later added P. recovered in the now Mavroneri called
Arcadian waters.

Su (Turkish), svw water, river.

Suad (Suadela, lat), svw Peitho
(sd), then in general speech and belief gift. Cousin Scraper, you may be sick now, perhaps a long time, and perhaps you have gone
upon your bed to die, like that king in the Bible who had figs put on; only he got well.

"And I want to stay and take care of you, and--and I will do as well as I know how, and I think
I can work more than I used to, because I know more, these last days, than I did, and--and--I
think that is all. But if you don't mind--if you would try to like me a little, I think we
should get on better; and if dried figs would do, we might try those, you know."

Here he turned to the doctor, with a face of such clear brightness that the good man choked,
and coughed, and finally went and looked out of the window, wondering whether he was laughing
or crying.

Then John came forward, and held out both hands to the old man with an appealing gesture. 18. April 1820 to Spalato (Croatia), studied at the Vienna
University to devote himself to the civil service followed, but his overwhelming tendency for music
and formed under the leadership of Seyfried in the composition. Gathering
himself up in the bed, he pushed the boy away from him with all his feeble strength.

"Go 'way!" he said. "Go 'way, I tell ye. If that man there will take ye, he's welcome to ye,
I guess. If he's fool enough to take ye in exchange for property, saying the property was his,
which I aint fool enough to do without a lawyer--he's welcome to ye. I say, he's welcome. I
don't want no brats round here. I took ye out of charity, and I've had enough of ye. Go 'long,
I say, with that wuthless feller, if he is my sister's son. I want to be rid of the hull lot
and passel of ye!"

His voice rose to a scream, and the veins on his narrow forehead stood out like cords. The
doctor motioned to the Spaniard; and the latter, without another word, took the child up in
his arms as he had done once before, swung him over his shoulder, and left the room.

CHAPTER XI.

SAILING.

"Rento!"

"Ay, ay, sir!"

"Franci!"

"Señor!"

"Jack and Jim!"

The monkeys for answer leaped on their master's shoulder, and chattered, and peered round into
his face.

"The company of this schooner, attention! Behold Colorado, who comes to be my son! 

The protested vehemently that he was not tired and happy to stay up all night. But even his
mother had commanded the Baron's hand, who kissed her respectfully.

Edgar slept badly that night. It was a confusion in him of happiness and childish Despair. For
today, something new had happened in his life. For the first time he had in the fates intervened
by adults. He forgot, even in the half dream, his own Childhood seemed to be large and all at once.
Sometimes he had, lonely and often sickly educated, had few friends. For all his need for affection
No one had been there when the parents, the little care about him, and the servants. And the
violence of love is always incorrectly calculated, but only if we upgraded to their cause
and not by the voltage precedes it, that hollow, dark room of disappointment and loneliness, the
great over all Events of the heart is. A superheavy, a feeling had been waiting here unconsumed
and now rushed forward with outstretched arms in the first, which seemed to deserve it. Edgar was
in the dark, happy and confused, he wanted to laugh and cry. For he loved this Man as he never
had a boyfriend, never father and mother, not even God loved. The whole immature passion of
his earlier years clutched the image of this man, whose name he had never known two hours
ago.

But he was wise enough by the unexpected nature of this new friendship not to be harassed. What
makes him so very confused, was the sense of his worthlessness, his Nullity. "Pass me because to
him, me, a little boy, twelve years old, who is still in school before him, the evening will
be sent to bed before all others, "he tormented himself. "What I can be to him what I can
offer him? "It is this painful perceived inability to somehow show his feelings to, made him unhappy.
Otherwise, if a comrade had grown fond of, it was his first, the few small treasures his desk, stamps
and stones, the childish possession of the child, to share with him, but all these things him
yesterday were of high significance and rare beauty, it seemed tied by a sudden, foolish and contemptible.
For as he was able to offer this kind of this new friend, he does not dared even know the answer
to you, where was a way, a way to his feelings betrayed?
 Oh, I wish I could do it like that! I say, we can play
all kind of things, can't we? We'll be pirates--only good pirates,--and we'll scour the seas,
and save all the shipwrecked people, won't we? And you shall be the captain (or you might call
it admiral, if you liked the sound better, I often do), and I will be the mate, or the prisoners,
or the drowning folks, just as you like. I love to play things."

"Come to my heart, angelic child!" cried Franci, flinging out his arms once more. "At length
I am understood, I am appreciated, I have found a comrade! That I weep on thy bosom, Colorado!"

And, much to the disgust of Rento, he fell upon John's neck, and shed, or appeared to shed,
a few tears, with great parade of silk handkerchief. He then advanced to where the Skipper
was smoking his cigar in the stern, and informed him, with a low bow, that he and Colorado
were one soul, which the Skipper said he was delighted to hear, adding that he recommended
the one soul to set the two bodies to work cleaning the brasses. 

Sunda Strait, strait between the islands of Sumatra and Java in the East Indies, connects the Indian
Ocean with the Sundasee. In this street are several volcanic islands: Prince Islands Thwart
de Way caused by the outbreaks occurred in recent times become known island of Krakatau Others

Sin, the moral abnormality in religious terms, every happened to freedom Deviation from the recognized
divine law. Although Paul, which the doctrine of S. has established as the beginning of universal
sinfulness after the Fall Jewish way Adams assumes, he shall at the same time the speculative
S. from the meat (sd, p. 363 f.) from. Thus the problem was given to the dissolution of the Church
teaching, worn by work, by seeking to bring the historical beginning with the moral source in
line. By the way, it differs: Original Sin (qv) and the first resulting from this fact, sin (Peccatum
actual); With regard to the form in which the law occurs, committing sin (P. commissionis),
the violation of the ban, and sin of omission (p. omissionis) In regard the action itself inner
sins (peccata interna), illicit thoughts and resolutions and external sins (p. externa), unlawful speeches
and deeds, to the degree of lying to her Perversity or intentional Bosheitssünden (p.voluntaria),
the evil directly from a Decision resulting actions, and unintentionally or weaknesses, übereilungssünden
(P. involuntaria. Infirmitate ex, temeritate oriunda). Under the Mt. 12, 31 f. above S. unvergeblichen
against the Holy Spirit means the final of disbelief in evil hardened, his own better conviction
suffocating personality. It and to 1 Joh 5, 16 17 is due to significant particularly in the
Catholic practice division of sins in vain or büßliche (peccata remissibilia immersive venialia)
and unvergebliche or deadly sins (P. irremissibilia immersive mortalia), when the state of
grace after the loss, without that they had been collected but from the Catholic doctrine in a
particular catalog would. See, Jul. Müller, The Christian doctrine of the S. (6th ed, Bresler. 1878,
2 vols).

Scapegoat, Azazel, and see transplantation.

Fall, the first sin, which according to the Mosaic report Adam (qv) and Eve committed. About
its consequences, see original sin.

Forgiveness of sins (see Condonatio remissions of sins), the outgoing of God Restoration of the
disturbed by sin, relationship of man to him. See sin and confession.

Sunderbands (Sunderbans), name for the swampy, traversed by numerous canals island maze the lowest Ganges
delta, between Hugli, Meghna and the Gulf of Bengal, where it is Stretches 264 km, 15.477 square kilometers
(281 QM) in size. Inhabited only the western and higher eastern parts, where the inhabitants
live in small villages, and especially rice, sugar cane but also build and jute. The land is
quite flat especially on the seaward side from impenetrable Dschangelwald
covered with an excellent protection against the frequent floods,
which nevertheless sometimes cause great devastation.

The forest, mostly state-owned supplies, large quantities of livestock
and firewood (annually for 590 000 pounds Sterl.).

Sinners hemp, the male hemp plant.

Sunderland (pronounced ssonderländ),
seaside town in English.

For it was the china poodle that Mr. Bill Hen had brought. When the treasure was safe in the
child's hands, Mr. Bill Hen breathed more freely.

"Now you'll have something to remember us by, Johnny!" he said. "We've lotted on ye a good
deal, here to the village; more maybe than you thought on. I--I'll miss ye consid'able, off
and on, ye see, off and on. You'll think about us nows and thens, won't ye, Bub?"

"Oh, yes, indeed!" cried little John, eagerly. "I shall think of you a great, great deal, Mr.
Bill Hen! You have always been so good and kind to me, and I shall miss you, too, and Lena,
and lots of people. And--and how is Cousin Scraper, please, Mr. Bill Hen? Does he miss me,
do you think?"

"He's all right!" replied Mr. Bill Hen, gruffly. "Doosn't seem none the worse for his tantrum.
No, if you ask me, I can't say as he seems to miss ye, not anyways to hurt him, that is. He'll
be out again to-morrow all right, doctor says; and besides bein' rather uglier than common
all day, I don't see no difference in him."

John sighed, but not very heavily.

"I suppose if I had been nicer he might have missed me," he said; "but then, on the other hand,
if he missed me, he wouldn't be so comfortable at my going away; so, you see!"

Mr. Bill Hen did not see, but he said it was of no consequence. Then, coming to the edge of
the wharf, he shook hands all round, never noticing, in the preoccupation of his mind, the
knife that Franci flashed and brandished in his eyes as a parting dramatic effect. He held
John's hand long, and seemed to labour for words, but found none; and so they slipped away
and left him standing alone on the wharf, a forlorn figure.

Down the river! Sailing, sailing over the magical waters, past the fairy shores, already darkening
into twilight shades of purple and gray. 

"Felix," said Guenther frightened - "what have you done?"

"The last bridge stopped behind me, which made me a dreamer," said
the young Count dark - "I want to be human again!"

"And what did the poor instrument?"

"It made me mad," cried the young man in a gloomy reverie. - "Günther Günther," he went on suddenly,
and seized arms of his friend - "You know well that there is a class of People there who on
the border of madness, in the midst of our controlled conditions of bourgeois society, unmolested
through this life to go, because the demon that lurks in them, never an opportunity got to break
out? The world is wrong with them and did not realize how the slightest chance as could ignite
a spark the fuel, the rest still trapped in the chest - arm Poor
they go with them, and everything is going well - they die in the
regular course of time her bed, the friend might say, pity about the
people he was a good skin, just a little eccentric at times, a bit
moody and strange. - If however the Spark at the right place, then
....«

Felix was on his feet and had kept it Günther's arm so tightly
that it hurt that, and his eyes stared wildly into his own.

Guenther met the eyes friendly but quiet, and finally said, "And why do you torture yourself with
such dreams?"

Felix looked at him a moment of bull, then he turned his head away, was Gunther's Arm going on
and ran his hand the tangled hair from his forehead.

"You're right," he said - "it dreams are nothing more, but they tease me sometimes, like us,
the terrible reality could not torment worse.

O, that I know of a means to ban it! "

"Join you in itself does not," Gunther asked kindly, "you mix with
the people which are not so bad but, as you seem to think - and all
these dark thoughts will disappear by itself.

"

"Not so bad as I seem to believe?" Laughed bitterly instead of answering, Felix himself - "my
dear friend, you're like a man walking with a torch in the forest
and everywhere he turns, only the light side of the trees looks.

They turn to you, everything else is dark and night. "

"I suggest you with your own example," smiled Günther. "All men are from the heart really good,
just, thank God, very rare you find an exception, the true intention Delight in evil has - they
shine properly with just your torch around, if you want, and they will show you all the light
side. Also like hatred and strife between Individuals are not against all they prove so, and
it is often those who You seem false and faithless are the best fathers
or mothers, and ensure yours to sacrifice their last forces.

"

"Bah, so much for your praise of the human race," Felix said gloomily
- "they are false and treacherous, believe me, and where you actually
meet them bring a heart to meet You only ridicule and scorn cold!

"

"And where have you been doing all these bitter experiences, poor
friend?" Guenther said cordially. Handsomely printed from new and
large type on laid paper, and handsomely illustrated with twenty full-page plates in half-tone
from photographs taken in Palmyra. Small 8vo, tastefully bound in parti-colored cloth, decorated
in gold, with cameo portrait on side, gilt top, in a box. $2.50

A handsome holiday edition of a famous historical novel, still popular and worthy of preservation
in an attractive form. The illustrations add considerably to its interest, depicting the ruins
of a splendid civilization, that was at its zenith nearly two thousand years ago.

AURELIAN;

Emperor of Rome. A tale of the Roman Empire in the Third Century. Small 8vo, cloth, gilt top,
uniform with our holiday edition of "Zenobia," each copy in a box. $2.50.

A companion edition to the handsome holiday edition of "Zenobia." It is an historical tale
of no ordinary power, and is familiar to the present generation chiefly from the reputation
of its former success, but well deserves renewed popularity.

JULIAN;

Or Scenes in Judea. Small 8vo, cloth, gilt top, uniform with our holiday editions of "Zenobia"
and "Aurelian," each copy in a box. $2.50.

Completes the series of historical romances by the author of "Zenobia." The scene is laid at
an earlier date than "Aurelian," being in fact during the time of Christ's ministrations in
Judea, scenes which have since been so grandly used by Lew Wallace in "Ben Hur." "The Mikado," "The Golden Legend" (1887) and others, whose names are
listed in England and America have had great success. 1883, p. was knighted by Queen knighted.

431

Suello - Sulpicius.

Suello, see Sander.

Sully (pronounced ssülli), Maximilian von Béthune, Baron de Rosny, Duke of, French statesman, born 13th
December 1560 to Rosny at Nantes, was educated in the Reformed Church and at the same time teaches
with Henry of Navarre. He participated with distinction in the campaigns
of the young King of Navarre in part and fought at Coutras (1587)
and at Ivry (1590). A severe Calvinist, proud and rugged, he also
joined his royal friend, especially of its waste and debauchery, meet
again with energy, but soon united both the common Love of country. Charmingly illustrated with twenty-five
full-page photogravure plates from original Photographs of points of interest in the beautiful
City of Florence, "The Lily of the Arno." Small 8vo, handsomely bound in white vellum cloth,
with cover design in gold and colors, gilt top, uncut edges, with slip covers in scarlet. Even were great
battles fought and many fell victim, released long casualty lists and each of them had the
word "missing" before. How could you ask that all try to should conduct research according
to one small missing?

The great suffering that the war imposed on so many wanted to be taken quietly and bravely.
Mrs Kolmann wore her grief in secret, she wanted her husband, who
will soon be in should go to war, do not make the heart difficult. By Clara Erskine Clement, author of "Naples,"
"Queen of the Adriatic," etc. Handsomely illustrated with full-page photogravures from original
photographs. He could
of course do nothing more than to give up everything he had, and she asked me, therefore, not
only house and land with all that it contained, but also a very important to incorporate the sum of
value documents, which she handed to me. Other volumes in press.

Estes & Lauriat, Publishers, Boston.

