Mr. Ferrier, as she spoke, leaned slightly across the tea-table as though to listen to what
she said. Lady Lucy moved away, and Mr. Ferrier, after spending a moment of quiet scrutiny
on the young mistress of Beechcote, came to sit beside her.

Mrs. Fotheringham threw herself back in her chair with a little yawn. "Mamma is more difficult
than the Almighty!" she said, in a loud aside to Sir James Chide. "One sin--or even somebody
else's sin--and you are done for."

Sir James, who was a Catholic, and scrupulous in speech, pursed his lips slightly, drummed
on the table with his fingers, and finally rose without reply, and betook himself to the Times.
Miss Drake meanwhile had been carried off to play billiards at the farther end of the hall
by the young men of the party. It might have been noticed that, before she went, she had spent
a few minutes of close though masked observation of her cousin Oliver's new friend. Also, that
she tried to carry Oliver Marsham with her, but unsuccessfully. He had returned to Diana's
neighborhood, and stood leaning over a chair beside her, listening to her conversation with
Mr. Ferrier.

His sister, Mrs. Fotheringham, was not content to listen. Diana's impressions of the country-side,
which presently caught her ear, evidently roused her pugnacity. She threw herself on all the
girl's rose-colored appreciations with a scorn hardly disguised. All the "locals," according
to her, were stupid or snobbish--bores, in fact, of the first water. And to Diana's discomfort
and amazement, Oliver Marsham joined in. He showed himself possessed of a sharper and more
caustic tongue than Diana had yet suspected. His sister's sallies only amused him, and sometimes
he improved on them, with epithets or comments, shrewder than hers indeed, but quite as biting.

"His neighbors and constituents!" thought Diana, in a young astonishment. "The people who send
him to Parliament!"

Mr. Ferrier seemed to become aware of her surprise and disapproval, for he once or twice threw
in a satirical word or two, at the expense, not of the criticised, but of the critics. The
well-known Leader of the Opposition was a stout man of middle height, with a round head and
face, at first sight wholly undistinguished, an ample figure, and smooth, straight hair. But
there was so much honesty and acuteness in the eyes, so much humor in the mouth, and so much
kindness in the general aspect, that Diana felt herself at once attracted; and when the master
of the house was summoned by his head gamekeeper to give directions for the shooting-party
of the following day, and Mrs. Fotheringham had gone off to attend what seemed to be a vast
correspondence, the politician and the young girl fell into a conversation which soon became
agreeable and even absorbing to both. Mrs. Colwood, sitting on the other side of the hall,
timidly discussing fancy work with the Miss Varleys, Lady Lucy's young nieces, saw that Diana
was making a conquest; and it seemed to her, moreover, that Mr. Ferrier's scrutiny of his companion
was somewhat more attentive and more close than was quite explained by the mere casual encounter
of a man of middle-age with a young and charming girl. Was he--like herself--aware that matters
of moment might be here at their beginning?

