The average range of the thermometer on that part of the coast, between the North-West Cape,
and the meridian of 120 degrees east longitude, during the above-mentioned period, was between
75 degrees in the middle of the day, and 60 degrees at night, on board the ship, and the general
course of the wind as follows, viz.

About sunrise, or sometimes a little before that, a breeze springs up between South and South-South-East
and draws to the eastward as the sun rises, rapidly increasing in strength, and between 8 and
11 A.M. often blows a fiery breeze; towards noon it moderates, and rarely lasts until 2 P.M.,
after which there is a light breeze from North-East which at times reaches to north; the nights
are mostly calm, or a light breeze from the south-westward; at the full and change of the moon,
we found the south-easterly winds stronger than at other times; dews at times very copious.

All this part of the coast is subject to the effects of mirage, by which its outline is at
times very much distorted, but generally speaking it ceases with the strength of the breeze,
and as the sun attains a little altitude. When the effects of mirage was observed in the morning,
I noticed that the winds were much lighter throughout the day, than usual.

During this part of the year, the atmosphere is clear, with a cloudless sky, and the coast
is exempted from the violent East-South-East squalls, that are of frequent occurrence, while
the sun is in the southern hemisphere, and the land consequently very much heated.

Towards the latter end of August, and in September, the winds are not quite so regular, and
there are occasional intervals of two or three days of westerly winds.

That part of the North-West coast between the North-West Cape, and the 116th degree of east
longitude, seems to be subject to westerly winds at all times of the year. The prevailing southerly
winds that blow along the west coast, appear to draw round the Cape, and follow the direction
of the land. Between April and October (when the easterly monsoon is blowing to the northward)
they are generally to the southward of west, or between that point and South-West, but during
the westerly monsoon between West and North-West.

Upon getting to the westward of the North-West Cape, the wind becomes more southerly, and draws
to the eastward of south as the distance from the land increases, and will be found varying
between South-South-East and East-South-East, generally speaking as far south as the parallel
of 30 degrees of south latitude, after which it is mostly to the westward of south, so that
ships making a passage to the southward, along the west coast of New Holland, will rarely be
able to make any easting, before reaching that latitude, particularly during the summer months.
In the winter a ship may occasionally make a quick passage to the southward, if happening to
be upon the coast during a northerly gale; and as all these gales are preceded by North-East
winds, a sufficient offing may be gained to enable her to run on, when the wind gets to the
southward of west.

...

ON THE NORTH COAST OF AUSTRALIA.

That part of the coast of New Holland from Cape York to Cape Van Diemen, and extending as far
south as the parallel of 12 degrees south latitude, may be said to be within the limit of the
east and west monsoons, as at a short distance from the coast, these periodical winds will
be found to blow with great regularity.

Near the land, the easterly monsoon sets in between the 1st and middle of April, and the westerly
monsoon in October, and sometimes not until November. At a distance from the land they are
probably more regular, as the changes of the monsoons are said to take place about the first
week in April and October.

