We saw the day's output--shining little nests of diamonds, distributed a foot apart, along
a counter, each nest reposing upon a sheet of white paper.  That day's catch was about $70,000
worth.  In the course of a year half a ton of diamonds pass under the scales there and sleep
on that counter; the resulting money is $18,000,000 or $20,000,000.  Profit, about $12,000,000.

Young girls were doing the sorting--a nice, clean, dainty, and probably distressing employment.
Every day ducal incomes sift and sparkle through the fingers of those young girls; yet they
go to bed at night as poor as they were when they got up in the morning.  The same thing next
day, and all the days.

They are beautiful things, those diamonds, in their native state.  They are of various shapes;
they have flat surfaces, rounded borders, and never a sharp edge.  They are of all colors and
shades of color, from dewdrop white to actual black; and their smooth and rounded surfaces
and contours, variety of color, and transparent limpidity make them look like piles of assorted
candies.  A very light straw color is their commonest tint.  It seemed to me that these uncut
gems must be more beautiful than any cut ones could be; but when a collection of cut ones was
brought out, I saw my mistake.  Nothing is so beautiful as a rose diamond with the light playing
through it, except that uncostly thing which is just like it--wavy sea-water with the sunlight
playing through it and striking a white-sand bottom.

Before the middle of July we reached Cape Town, and the end of our African journeyings.  And
well satisfied; for, towering above us was Table Mountain--a reminder that we had now seen
each and all of the great features of South Africa except Mr. Cecil Rhodes.  I realize that
that is a large exception.  I know quite well that whether Mr. Rhodes is the lofty and worshipful
patriot and statesman that multitudes believe him to be, or Satan come again, as the rest of
the world account him, he is still the most imposing figure in the British empire outside of
England. When he stands on the Cape of Good Hope, his shadow falls to the Zambesi. He is the
only colonial in the British dominions whose goings and comings are chronicled and discussed
under all the globe's meridians, and whose speeches, unclipped, are cabled from the ends of
the earth; and he is the only unroyal outsider whose arrival in London can compete for attention
with an eclipse.

That he is an extraordinary man, and not an accident of fortune, not even his dearest South
African enemies were willing to deny, so far as I heard them testify.  The whole South African
world seemed to stand in a kind of shuddering awe of him, friend and enemy alike.  It was as
if he were deputy-God on the one side, deputy-Satan on the other, proprietor of the people,
able to make them or ruin them by his breath, worshiped by many, hated by many, but blasphemed
by none among the judicious, and even by the indiscreet in guarded whispers only.

