The working of that free initiative that makes the advance of civilisation, and also the greater
part of its conservation, would in effect be allowed only in the erratic members of the kept
classes; where at the same time it would have to work against the side-draught of conventional
usage, which discountenances any pursuit that is not visibly futile according to some accepted
manner of futility. Now under the prospective perfect working of the price-system, bearers
of the banners of civilisation could effectually be drawn only from the kept classes, the gentlefolk
who alone would have the disposal of such free income as is required for work that has no pecuniary
value. And numerically the gentlefolk are an inconsiderable fraction of the population. The
supply of competently gifted bearers of the community's culture would accordingly be limited
to such as could be drawn by self-selection from among this inconsiderable proportion of the
community at large.

It may be recalled that in point of heredity, and therefore in point of native fitness for
the maintenance and advance of civilisation, there is no difference between the gentlefolk
and the populace at large; or at least there is no difference of such a nature as to count
in abatement of the proposition set down above. Some slight, but after all inconsequential,
difference there may be, but such difference as there is, if any, rather counts against the
gentlefolk as keepers of the cultural advance. The gentlefolk are derived from business; the
gentleman represents a filial generation of the businessman; and if the class typically is
gifted with any peculiar hereditary traits, therefore, they should presumably be such as typically
mark the successful businessman--astute, prehensile, unscrupulous. For a generation or two,
perhaps to the scriptural third and fourth generation, it is possible that a diluted rapacity
and cunning may continue to mark the businessman's well-born descendants; but these are not
serviceable traits for the conservation and advancement of the community's cultural heritage.
So that no consideration of special hereditary fitness in the well-born need be entertained
in this connection.

As to the limitation imposed by the price-system on the supply of candidates suited by native
gift for the human work of civilisation; it would no doubt, be putting the figure extravagantly
high to say that the gentlefolk, properly speaking, comprise as much as ten percent of the
total population; perhaps something less than one-half of that percentage would still seem
a gross overstatement. But, to cover loose ends and vagrant cases, the gentlefolk may for the
purpose be credited with so high a percentage of the total population. If ten percent be allowed,
as an outside figure, it follows that the community's scientists, artists, scholars, and the
like individuals given over to the workday pursuits of the human spirit, are by conventional
restriction to be drawn from one-tenth of the current supply of persons suited by native gift
for these pursuits. Or as it may also be expressed, in so far as the projected scheme takes
effect it should result in the suppression of nine (or more) out of every ten persons available
for the constructive work of civilisation. The cultural consequences to be looked for, therefore,
should be quite markedly of the conservative order.

Of course, in actual effect, the retardation or repression of civilisation by this means, as
calculated on these premises, should reasonably be expected to count up to something appreciably
more than nine-tenths of the gains that might presumably be achieved in the conceivable absence
of the price-system and the régime of investment. All work of this kind has much of the character
of teamwork; so that the efforts of isolated individuals count for little, and a few working
in more or less of concert and understanding will count for proportionally much less than many
working in concert. The endeavours of the individuals engaged count cumulatively, to such effect
that doubling their forces will more than double the aggregate efficiency; and conversely,
reducing the number will reduce the effectiveness of their work by something more than the
simple numerical proportion. Indeed, an undue reduction of numbers in such a case may lead
to the total defeat of the few that are left, and the best endeavours of a dwindling remnant
may be wholly nugatory. There is needed a sense of community and solidarity, without which
the assurance necessary to the work is bound to falter and dwindle out; and there is also needed
a degree of popular countenance, not to be had by isolated individuals engaged in an unconventional
pursuit of things that are neither to be classed as spendthrift decorum nor as merchantable
goods. In this connection an isolated one does not count for one, and more than the critical
minimum will count for several per capita. It is a case where the "minimal dose" is wholly
inoperative.

There is not a little reason to believe that consequent upon the installation of the projected
régime of peace at large and secure investment the critical point in the repression of talent
will very shortly be reached and passed, so that the principle of the "minimal dose" will come
to apply. The point may readily be illustrated by the case of many British and American towns
and neighbourhoods during the past few decades; where the dominant price-system and its commercial
standards of truth and beauty have over-ruled all inclination to cultural sanity and put it
definitively in abeyance. The cultural, or perhaps the conventional, residue left over in these
cases where civilisation has gone stale through inefficiency of the minimal dose is not properly
to be found fault with; it is of a blameless character, conventionally; nor is there any intention
here to cast aspersion on the desolate. The like effects of the like causes are to be seen
in the American colleges and universities, where business principles have supplanted the pursuit
of learning, and where the commercialisation of aims, ideals, tastes, occupations and personnel
is following much the same lines that have led so many of the country towns effectually outside
the cultural pale. The American university or college is coming to be an outlier of the price-system,
in point of aims, standards and personnel; hitherto the tradition of learning as a trait of
civilisation, as distinct from business, has not been fully displaced, although it is now coming
to face the passage of the minimal dose. The like, in a degree, is apparently true latterly
for many English, and still more evidently for many German schools.

In these various instances of what may be called dry-rot or local blight on the civilised world's
culture the decline appears to be due not to a positive infection of a malignant sort, so much
as to a failure of the active cultural ferment, which has fallen below the critical point of
efficacy; perhaps through an unintended refusal of a livelihood to persons given over to cultivating
the elements of civilisation; perhaps through the conventional disallowance of the pursuit
of any other ends than competitive gain and competitive spending. Evidently it is something
much more comprehensive in this nature that is reasonably to be looked for under the prospective
régime of peace, in case the price-system gains that farther impetus and warrant which it should
come in for if the rights of ownership and investment stand over intact, and so come to enjoy
the benefit of a further improved state of the industrial arts and a further enlarged scale
of operation and enhanced rate of turnover.

       *       *       *       *       *

