'Just a woman's wiles. At this moment she can't hear us, but she knows pretty nearly what we
are saying by the way our lips are going. Have you spoken to her?'

'I did say a word or two to her yesterday.'

'What did she say?'

'I don't recollect especially. She struck me as talking better than her gown, if you know what
I mean.'

'She talks a great deal better than her gown,' said Dick. 'I don't quite know what to make
of her. She says that she is going out to earn her bread; but when I asked her how, she either
couldn't or wouldn't answer me. She is a mystery, and mysteries are always worth unravelling.
I shall go to work and unravel her.'

At that moment the female of whom they were speaking got up from her seat on one of the spars
which was bound upon the deck, folded up her work, and walked away. She was a remarkable woman,
and certainly looked to be better than her gown, which was old and common enough. Caldigate
had observed her frequently, and had been much struck by the word or two she had spoken to
him on the preceding day. 'I should like ship-life well enough,' she had said, in answer to
some ordinary question, 'if it led to nothing else.'

'You would not remain here for ever?'

'Certainly, if I could. There is plenty to eat, and a bed to sleep on, and no one to be afraid
of. And though nobody knows me, everybody knows enough of me not to think that I ought to be
taken to a police office because I have not gloves to my hands.'

'Don't you think it wearisome?' he had asked.

'Everything is wearisome; but here I have a proud feeling of having paid my way. To have settled
in advance for your dinner for six weeks to come is a magnificent thing. If I get too tired
of it I can throw myself overboard. You can't even do that in London without the police being
down upon you. The only horror to me here is that there will so soon be an end to it.'

At that time he had not even heard her name, or known whether she were alone or joined to others.
Then he had inquired, and a female fellow-passenger had informed him that she was a Mrs. Smith,--that
she had seen better days, but had been married to a ne'er-do-well husband, who had drank himself
to death within a year of their marriage, and that she was now going out to the colony, probably,--so
the old lady said who was the informant,--in search of a second husband. She was to some extent,
the old lady said, in charge of a distant relative, who was then on board, with a respectable
husband and children, and who was very much ashamed of her poor connection. So much John Caldigate
had heard.

Though he had heard this he did not feel inclined to tell it all to Dick Shand. Dick had professed
his intention of unravelling the mystery, but Caldigate almost thought that he would like to
unravel it himself. The woman was so constantly alone! And then, though she was ill-dressed,
untidy, almost unkempt on occasions, still, through it all, there was something attractive
about her. There was a brightness in her eye, and a courage about her mouth, which had made
him think that, in spite of her appearance, she would be worth his attention--just for the
voyage. When he had been speaking to herself they had been on the deck together, and it had
been dusk and he had not been able to look her in the face; but while Shand had been speaking
to him he had observed that she was very comely. And this was the more remarkable because it
seemed to him to be so evident that she made the worst rather than the best of herself. She
was quite a young woman;--probably, he thought, not more than three or four and twenty; and
she was there, with many young men round her, and yet she made no effort to attract attention.
When his eye had fallen upon her she had generally been quite alone, doing some piece of coarse
and ordinary work.

'I have had another conversation with her,' said Shand to him that night.

'Have you unravelled the mystery?'

'Not quite; but I have got the fact that there is a mystery. She told me that you and I and
she herself ought not to be here. When I asked her why, she said that you and I ought to be
gentlemen and that she ought to be a lady. I told her that you and I were gentlemen, in spite
of our trousers. "Ah," she said, "there comes the difference; I'm not a lady any longer!" When
I contradicted her she snubbed me, and said that I hadn't seen enough of the world to know
anything about it. But I'll have it all out of her before I've done.'

For some days after that Caldigate kept himself aloof from Mrs. Smith, not at all because he
had ceased to notice her or to think about her, but from a feeling of dislike to exhibit rivalry
with his friend. Shand was making himself very particular, and he thought that Shand was a
fool for his pains. He was becoming angry with Shand, and had serious thoughts of speaking
to him with solemn severity. What could such a woman be to him? But at the bottom of all this
there was something akin to jealousy. The woman was good-looking, and certainly clever, and
was very interesting. Shand, for two or three evenings running, related his success; how Mrs.
Smith had communicated to him the fact that she utterly despised those Cromptons, who were
distant cousins of her late husband's, and with whom she had come on board; how she preferred
to be alone to having aught to do with them; how she had one or two books with her, and passed
some hours in reading; and how she was poor, very poor, but still had something on which to
live for a few weeks after landing. But Caldigate fancied that there must be a betrayal of
trust in these revelations, and though he was in truth interested about the woman, did not
give much encouragement to his friend.

'Upon my word,' he said, 'I don't seem to care so very much about Mrs. Smith's affairs.'

'I do,' said Shand, who was thick-skinned and irrepressible. 'I declared my intention of unravelling
the mystery, and I mean to do it.'

'I hope you are not too inquisitive?'

'Of course she likes to have some one to whom she can talk. And what can people talk about
on board ship except themselves? A woman who has a mystery always likes to have it unravelled.
What else is the good of a mystery?'

He was thick-skinned and irrepressible, but Caldigate endeavoured to show his displeasure.
He felt that the poor woman was in coarse hands; and he thought that, had matters gone otherwise,
he might have accepted, in a more delicate manner, so much confidence as she chose to vouchsafe.

So it was when they had been a fortnight at sea. They had left home in mid-winter; but now
they were in the tropics, near the line, and everything was sultry, sleepy, and warm. Flying-fishes
were jumping from the waves on to the deck, and when the dusk of night was come, the passengers
would stand by the hour together watching the phosphorus on the water. The Southern Cross had
shown itself plainly, and possessed the heavens in conjunction with the Bear. The thick woollen
drawers which had been so carefully prepared, were no longer in use, and men were going about
in light pantaloons and linen jackets,--those on the quarter-deck at first beautifully clean
and white, while our friends of the second cabin were less careful. The women, too, had got
quit of their wraps, and lounged about the deck in light attire. During the bright hours of
the day the aristocrats, in the stern, were shrouded from the sun by a delightful awning; but,
forward, the passengers sought the shade of the loose idle sails, or screened themselves from
the fierce rays as best they might among the hatchways and woodwork But it was when the burning
sun had hidden himself, when the short twilight had disappeared, and the heavens were alive
and alight with stars, that all the world of the ship would be crowded on the upper deck. There
they would remain, long after the lamps below had been extinguished, some of them sleeping
through the whole night in the comparative coolness of the air. But it was from eight, when
tea would be over, till midnight, that the hum of voices would be thickest, and the tread of
those who walked for their exercise the most frequent.

At such times Caldigate would be often alone; for though he had made acquaintances, and had
become indeed intimate with some of those around him, he had never thrust himself into the
life of the ship as Shand had done. Charades were acted in the second cabin, in which Shand
always took part,--and there were penny readings, at which Shand was often the reader. And
he smoked much and drank somewhat with those who smoked and drank. The awe at first inspired
by his university superiority and supposed rank in the world had faded almost into nothing,
but by Caldigate, unconsciously, much of this had been preserved. I am not sure that he did
not envy his friend, but at any rate he stood aloof. And, in regard to Mrs. Smith, when he
saw her walking one evening with Shand in the sweetly dim light of the evening, with her hand
upon Shand's arm, he made up his mind that he would think no more about her.

They had been at sea just a fortnight when this happened. And in about a quarter of an hour
after this resolve had been formed Mrs. Smith was standing by him and talking to him. A ball
was being held on the quarter-deck, or rather, as there was in truth no quarter-deck to the
Goldfinder, on that clean, large, luxurious expanse devoted to the aristocracy in the after-part
of the vessel. From among the second-class passengers, two fiddlers and a flute player had
been procured, who formed the band. At sea you have always to look for your musicians among
the second-class passengers. And now under the awning young and old were standing up, and making
themselves happy beneath the starlight and the glimmer of the dozen ship-lamps which had been
hung around. On board ship there are many sources of joy of which the land knows nothing. You
may flirt and dance at sixty; and if you are awkward in the turn of a valse, you may put it
down to the motion of the ship. You need wear no gloves, and may drink your soda-and-brandy
without being ashamed of it.

It was not for John Caldigate to join the mazes of that dance, though he would have liked it
well, and was well fitted by skill and taste for such exercise. But the ground was hallowed
on which they trod, and forbidden to him; and though there was probably not a girl or a dancing
married woman there who would not have been proud to stand up with Mr. Caldigate of Folking,
there was not one who would have dared to take the hand of a second-class passenger. So he
stood, just within his own boundary, and looked and longed. Then there was a voice in his ear.
'Do you dance, Mr. Caldigate?'

It was a very pleasant voice, low, but distinct and silvery, infinitely better again than the
gown; a voice so distinct and well-managed that it would have been noticed for its peculiar
sweetness if coming from any high-bred lady. He turned round and found her face close to his.
Why had she come to speak to him when she must have perceived that he had intentionally avoided
her.

'I used to be very fond of dancing,' he said, 'but it is one of the things that have gone away.'

'I, too, was fond of dancing; but, as you say, it has gone away. It will come back to you,
in half-a-dozen years, perhaps. It can never come back to me. Things do come back to men.'

'Why more than to women?'

'You have a resurrection;--I mean here upon earth. We never have. Though we live as long as
you, the pleasure-seeking years of our lives are much shorter. We burst out into full flowering
early in our spring, but long before the summer is over, we are no more than huddled leaves
and thick stalks.'

'Are you a thick stalk, Mrs. Smith?'

'Unfortunately, not. My flowers are gone while my stalk is still thin and sensitive. And then
women can't recuperate.'

'I don't quite know what that means.'

'Yes, you do. It is good English enough even for Cambridge by this time. If you had made a
false step, got into debt and ran away, or mistaken another man's wife for your own, or disappeared
altogether under a cloud for a while, you could retrieve your honour, and, sinking at twenty-five
or thirty, could come up from out of the waters at thirty-five as capable of enjoyment and
almost as fresh as ever. But a woman does not bear submersion. She is draggled ever afterwards.
She must hide everything by a life of lies, or she will get no admittance anywhere. The man
is rather the better liked because he has sown his wild oats broadly. Of all these ladies dancing
there, which dances the best? There is not one who really knows how to dance.'

Chapter VI

Mrs. Smith

She had changed the conversation so suddenly, rushing off from that great question as to the
condition of women generally to the very unimportant matter of the dancing powers of the ladies
who were manoeuvring before them, that Caldigate hardly knew how to travel with her so quickly.
'They all dance well enough for ship dancing,' he replied; 'but as to what you were saying
about women----'

'No, Mr. Caldigate; they don't dance well enough for ship dancing. Dancing, wherever it be
done, should be graceful. A woman may at any rate move her feet in accordance with time, and
she need not skip, nor prance, nor jump, even on board ship. Look at that stout lady.'

'Mrs. Callander?'

Everybody by this time knew everybody's name.

'If she is Mrs. Callander?'

Mrs. Smith, no doubt, knew very well that it was Mrs. Callander.

'Does not your ear catch separately the thud of her footfall every time she comes to the ground?'

'She is fat, fair, and forty.'

'Fat enough;--and what she lacks in fairness may be added on to the forty; but if she were
less ambitious and had a glimmer of taste, she might do better than that. You see that girl
with the green scarf round her? She is young and good-looking. Why should she spring about
like a bear on a hot iron?'

'You should go and teach them.'

'It is just what I should like; only they would not be taught; and I should be stern, and tell
them the truth.'

'Why don't you go and dance with them yourself?'

'I!'

'Why not? There is one second-class lady there?' This was true. For though none of the men
would have been admitted from the inferior rank to join the superior, the rule of demarcation
had so far been broken that a pretty girl who was known to some of the first-class passengers
had been invited to come over the line and join the amusements of the evening. 'She dances
about as well as any of them.'

'If you were among them would you dare to come out and ask me to join them? That is a question
which you won't even dare to answer.'

'It is a little personal.'

'"No," you ought to say. "I could not do that because your clothes are so poor, and because
of your ragged old hat, and I am not quite sure that your shoes are fit to be seen." Is not
that what you would say, if you said what you thought?'

'Perhaps it is.'

'And if you said all that you thought, perhaps you would remind me that a woman of whom nobody
knows anything is always held to be disreputable. That girl, no doubt, has her decent belongings.
I have nobody.'

'You have your friends on board.'

'No, I have not. I have not a single friend on board. Those Cromptons were very unwillingly
persuaded to take a sort of interest in me, though they really know nothing about me. And I
have already lost any good which might come from their protection. She told me yesterday, that
I ought not to walk about with Mr. Shand.'

'And what did you say?'

'Of course I told her to mind her own business. I had no alternative. A woman has to show a
little spirit or she will be trodden absolutely into the dirt. It was something to have a woman
to speak to, even though I had not a thought in common with her;--though she was to my feeling
as inferior to myself as I no doubt am thought to be by that fat prancing woman to herself.
Even Mrs. Crompton's countenance was of value. But if I had yielded she would have taken it
out in tyranny. So now we don't speak.'

'That is a pity.'

'It is a pity. You watch them all and see how they look at me,--the women, I mean. They know
that Mr. Shand speaks to me, and that you and Mr. Shand are the two gentlemen we have among
us. There are, no doubt, a dozen of them watching me now, somewhere, and denouncing me for
the impropriety of my behaviour.'

'Is it improper?'

'What do you think?'

'Why may we not talk as well as others?'

'Exactly. But there are people who are tabooed. Look at that Miss Green and the ship doctor.'
At that moment the ship's doctor and the young lady in question came close to them in the dance.
'There is no harm in Miss Green talking by the hour together with the doctor, because she is
comfortably placed. She has got an old father and mother on board who don't look after her,
and everything is respectable. But if I show any of the same propensities I ought almost to
be put into irons.'

'Has anybody else been harsh to you?'

'The Captain has been making inquiries,--no doubt with the idea that he may at last be driven
to harsh measures. Have you got a sister?'

'No.'

'Or a mother?'

'No.'

'Or a housemaid?'

'Not even a housemaid. I have no female belongings whatever.'

'Don't you know that if you had a sister, and a mother, and a housemaid, your mother would
quite expect that your sister should in time have a lover, but that she would be horrified
at the idea of the housemaid having a follower?'

'I did not know that. I thought housemaids got married sometimes.'

'Human nature is stronger than tyranny.'

'But what does all this mean? You are not a housemaid, and you have not got a mistress?'

'Not exactly. But at present;--if I say my outward woman you'll know what I mean perhaps.'

'I think I shall.'

'Well; my present outward woman stands to me in lieu of the housemaid's broom, and the united
authority of the Captain and Mrs. Crompton make up the mistress between them. And the worst
of it all is, that though I have to endure the tyranny, I have not got the follower. It is
as hard upon Mr. Shand as it is upon me.'

'Shand, I suppose, can take care of himself.'

'No doubt;--and so in real truth can I. I can stand apart and defy them all; and as I look
at them looking at me, and almost know with what words they are maligning me, I can tell myself
that they are beneath me, and that I care nothing for them. I shall do nothing which will enable
any one to interfere with me. But it seems hard that all this should be so because I am a widow,--and
because I am alone,--and because I am poorly clothed.'

As she said this there were tears in her eyes, true ones, and something of the sound of a broken
sob in her voice. And Caldigate was moved. The woman's condition was to be pitied, whether
it had been produced with or without fault on her own part. To be alone is always sad,--even
for a man; but for a woman, and for a young woman, it is doubly melancholy. Of a sudden the
dancing was done and the lamps were taken away.

'If you do not want to go to bed,' he said, 'let us take a turn.'

'I never go to bed. I mean here, on board ship. I linger up on deck, half hiding myself about
the place, till I see some quartermaster eying me suspiciously and then I creep down into the
little hole which I occupy with three of Mrs. Crompton's children and then I cry myself to
sleep. But I don't call that going to bed.'

'Take a turn now.'

'I shall feel like the housemaid talking to her follower through the area-gate. But she is
brave, and why should I be a coward?' Then she put her hand upon his arm. 'And you,' she said,
'why are not you dancing in the other part of the ship with Mrs. Callander and Miss Green,
instead of picking your way among the hencoops here with me?'

'This suited my pocket best,--and my future prospects.'

'You are making a delightful experiment in roughing it,--as people eat pic-nic dinners out
in the woods occasionally, so that there may be a break in the monotony of chairs and tables.'

While Shand had been unravelling her mystery, she, perhaps, had been more successful in unravelling
his.

'We intend to be miners.'

'And to return home before long with some vast treasure. I hope you may be successful.'

'You seem to doubt it.'

'Of course it is doubtful. If not, the thing would be common and hardly worth the doing. Will
Mr. Shand be very persistent as a working miner?'

'I hope so.'

'He seems to me to have great gifts of idleness, which on board ship are a blessing. How I
do envy men when I see them smoking! It seems to me that nothing is wanting to them. Women
have their needlework; but though they hate it less than idleness, they do hate it. But you
really like your tobacco.'

'I don't like being idle. I read a good deal. Do you read?'

'I have but few books here. I have read more perhaps than most young women of my age. I came
away in such a hurry that I have almost nothing with me.'

'Can I lend you books?'

'If you will. I will promise to take care of them.'

'I have "The Heartbroken One," by Spratt, you know. It is very absurd, but full of life from
beginning to end. All that Spratt writes is very lively.'

'I don't think I care for Spratt. He may be lively, but he's not life-like.'

'And "Michael Bamfold." It is hard work, perhaps but very thoughtful, if you can digest that
sort of thing.'

'I hate thought.'

'What do you say to Miss Bouverie's last;--"Ridden to a Standstill;" a little loud, perhaps,
but very interesting? Or "Green Grow the Rushes O," by Mrs. Tremaine? None of Mrs. Tremaine's
people do anything that anybody would do, but they all talk well.'

'I hate novels written by women. Their girls are so unlovely, and their men such absurdly fine
fellows!'

'I have William Coxe's "Lock picked at Last," of which I will defy you to find the secret till
you have got to the end of it.'

'I am a great deal too impatient.'

'And Thompson's "Four Marquises." That won't give you any trouble, because you will know it
all from the first chapter.'

'And never have a moment of excitement from the beginning to the end. I don't think I care
very much for novels. Have you nothing else?'

Caldigate had many other books, a Shakespeare, some lighter poetry, and sundry heavier works
of which he did not wish specially to speak, lest he should seem to be boasting of his own
literary taste; but at last it was settled that on the next morning he should supply her with
what choice he had among the poets. Then at about midnight they parted, and Caldigate, as he
found his way down to his cabin, saw the quartermaster with his eye fixed upon Mrs. Smith.
There is no so stern guardian of morality and propriety as your old quartermaster on board
a first-class ship.

'You have been having a grand time of it with Mrs. Smith,' said Shand as soon as Caldigate
was in their cabin.

'Pretty well,--as far as fine times go on board ship. Is there anything against it?'

'Oh, no, not that I know of. I started the hare; if you choose to run it I have no right to
complain, I suppose.'

'I don't know anything about the hare, but you certainly have no right to complain because
I have been talking to Mrs. Smith;--unless indeed you tell me that you are going to make her
Mrs. Shand.'

'You are much more likely to make her Mrs. Caldigate.'

'I don't know that I should have any objection;--that is, if I wanted a wife. She is good-looking,
clever, well-educated, and would be well-mannered were it not that she bristles up against
the ill-usage of the world too roughly.'

'I didn't know it had gone so far as that,' said Shand, angrily.

'Nor did I, till you suggested it to me. Now I think I'll go to sleep, if you please, and dream
about it.'

He did not go to sleep, but lay awake half thinking and half dreaming. He certainly liked Mrs.
Smith; but then, as he had begun to find out of himself he liked women's society generally.
He was almost jealous of the doctor, because the doctor was allowed to talk to Miss Green and
waltz with Miss Green, whereas he could not approach her. Then he thought of Maria Shand and
that kiss in the little back parlour,--the kiss which had not meant much, but which had meant
something; and then of Julia Babington, to whom he was not quite sure that he ought not to
feel himself engaged. But the face that was clearest to him of all,--and which became the dearer
the nearer that he approached to a state of dozing,--was that of Hester Bolton, whose voice
he had hardly heard, who had barely spoken to him;--the tips of whose fingers he had only just
touched. If there was any one thing fixed on his mind it was that, as soon as he had put together
a large lump of gold, he would go back to Cambridge and win Hester Bolton to be his wife. But
yet what a singular woman was this Mrs. Smith! As to marrying her, that of course had been
a joke produced by the petulance of his snoring friend. He began to dislike Shand, because
he did snore so loudly, and drank so much bottled ale, and smelt so strongly of cavendish tobacco.
Mrs. Smith was at any rate much too good for Shand. Surely she must have been a lady, or her
voice would not have been sweet and silvery? And though she did bristle roughly against the
ill-usage of the world, and say strong things, she was never absolutely indelicate or even
loud. And she was certainly very interesting. How did it come to pass that she was so completely
alone, so poor, so unfriended and yet possessed of such gifts? There certainly was a mystery,
and it would certainly be his fate, and not the fate of Dick Shand, to unravel it. The puzzle
was much too delicate and too intricate for Dick Shand's rough hands. Then, giving his last
waking thoughts for a moment to Hester Bolton, he went to sleep in spite of the snoring.

On the next morning, as soon as he was out of bed, he opened a small portmanteau in which he
had put up some volumes the day before he left Pollington and to which he had not yet had recourse
since the beginning of the voyage. From these he would select one or two for the use of his
new friend. So he dragged out the valise from beneath the berth, while Shand abused him for
the disturbance he made. On the top, lying on the other volumes, which were as he had placed
them, was a little book, prettily bound, by no means new, which he was sure had never been
placed there by himself. He took it up, and, standing in the centre of the cabin, between the
light of the porthole and Dick's bed, he examined it. It was a copy of Thomson's 'Seasons',
and on the flyleaf was written in a girl's hand the name of its late owner,--Maria Shand. The
truth flashed upon him at once. She must have gone down on that last night after he was in
bed, and thus have made her little offering in silence, knowing that it would be hidden from
him till he was far away from her.

'What book is that?' said Shand suddenly, emerging with his head and shoulders from the low berth.

'A book of mine,' said Caldigate, disconcerted for the moment.

'What are you going to do with it?'

'I am looking for something to lend to Mrs. Smith.'

'That is Molly's Thomson's "Seasons,"' said the brother, remembering, as we are so apt to remember
the old thing that had met his eye so often in the old house. 'Where did you get it?'

'I didn't steal it, Dick.'

'I don't suppose you did; but I'm sure it's the book I say.'

'No doubt it is. If you think it is in bad hands, shall I give it back to you?'

'I don't want it. If she gave it you, she was a fool for her pains.'

'I don't see that.'

'I would rather, at any rate, that you would not lend a book with my sister's name in it to
Mrs. Smith.'

'I was not thinking of doing so. She wants a Shakespeare that I have got here, and a volume
of Tennyson.' Then Dick retreated back into his berth, and snored again, while Caldigate dressed
himself. When that operation was completed,--which, including his lavations, occupied about
five minutes,--he went up on the deck with the books for Mrs. Smith in his hand, and with Thomson's
'Seasons' in his pocket. So the poor girl had absolutely stolen down-stairs in the middle of
the cold night, and had opened the case and re-fastened it, in order that he, when in strange
lands, might find himself in possession of something that had been hers!

He had not been alone a minute or two, and was looking about to see if Mrs. Smith was there,
when he was accosted by the Captain. The Captain was a pleasant-looking, handsome man, about
forty-five years of age, who had the good word of almost everybody on board, but who had not
before spoken specially to Caldigate.

'Good morning, Mr. Caldigate. I hope you find yourself fairly comfortable where you are.'

'Pretty well, thank you, Captain.'

'If there is anything I can do.'

'We have all that we have a right to expect.'

'I wish, Mr. Caldigate, I could invite you and your friends to come astern among us sometimes,
but it would be contrary to rule.'

'I can quite understand that, Captain.'

'You are doing a bit of roughing,--no doubt for the sake of experience. If you only knew the
sort of roughing I've had in my time!'

'I dare say.'

'Salt pork and hard biscuit, and only half enough of that. You find yourself among some queer
fellow-passengers I dare say, Mr. Caldigate.'

'Everybody is very civil.'

'They're sure to be that to a gentleman. But one has to be careful. The women are the most
dangerous.' Then the Captain laughed, as though it had only been a joke,--this allusion to
the women. But Caldigate knew that there was more than a joke in it. The Captain had intended
to warn him against Mrs. Smith.

Chapter VII

The Three Attempts

Something more than a month had gone by, and John Caldigate and Mrs. Smith were very close
companions. This had not been effected without considerable opposition, partly on the part
of Shand, and partly by the ship's inhabitants generally. The inhabitants of the ship were
inimical to Mrs. Smith. She was a woman who had no friends; and the very female who had first
appeared as a friend was now the readiest to say hard things of her. And Caldigate was a handsome
well-mannered young man. By this time all the ladies in the first-class knew very well who
he was, and some of them had spoken to him. On one or two occasions the stern law of the vessel
had been broken; and he had been absolutely invited to sit on those august after-benches. He
was known to be a gentleman, and believed, on the evidence of Dick Shand, to be possessed of
considerable means. It was therefore a thing horrible to all of them, and particularly to Miss
Green, that he should allow himself to be enticed into difficulties by such a creature as that
Mrs. Smith. Miss Green had already been a little cold to the doctor in consequence of a pleasant
half-hour spent by her in Caldigate's company, as they looked over the side of the vessel at
the flying-fish. Mrs. Callander had been with them, and everything had been quite proper. But
what a pity it was that he should devote so much of his time to that woman! 'Fancy his condition
if he should be induced to marry her!' said Miss Green, holding up her hands in horror. The
idea was so terrible that Mrs. Callander declared that she would speak to him. 'Nobody ever
disliked interfering so much as I do,' said Mrs. Callander; 'but sometimes a word from a lady
will go so far with a young man!' Mrs. Callander was a most respectable woman, whose father
had begun life as a cattle drover in the colonies, but had succeeded in amassing a considerable
fortune. 'Oh, I do wish that something may be done to save him!' said Miss Green.

Among the second-class passengers the same feeling existed quite as strongly. The woman herself
had not only been able but had been foolish enough to show that in spite of her gown she considered
herself superior to them all. When it was found that she was, in truth, handsome to look upon,--that
her words were soft and well chosen,--that she could sit apart and read,--and that she could
trample upon Mrs. Crompton in her scorn,--then, for a while, there were some who made little
efforts to get into her good graces. She might even have made an ally of good-natured Mrs.
Bones, the wife of the butcher who was going out with his large family to try his fortune at
Melbourne. Mrs. Bones had been injured, after some ship fashion, by Mrs. Crompton, and would
have made herself pleasant. But Mrs. Smith had despised them all, and had shown her contempt,
and was now as deeply suspected by Mrs. Bones as by Mrs. Crompton or Mrs. Callander.

But of all the foes to this intimacy Dick Shand was for a time the most bitter and the most
determined No doubt this arose at first from jealousy. He had declared his purpose of unravelling
the mystery; but the task had been taken out of his hands, and the unravelling was being done
by another. And the more that the woman was abused, and the more intent were all the people
in regard to her wicked determination to be intimate with Caldigate, the more interesting she
became. Dick, who was himself the very imp of imprudence,--who had never been deterred from
doing anything he fancied by any glimmer of control,--would have been delighted to be the hero
of all the little stories that were being told. But as that morsel of bread had been taken,
as it were, from between his very teeth by the unjustifiable interference of his friend, he
had become more alive than any one else to the danger of the whole proceeding. He acknowledged
to the Captain that his friend was making a fool of himself; and, though he was a little afraid
of Caldigate, he resolved upon interfering.

'Don't you think you are making an ass of yourself about this woman?' he said.

'I daresay I am.'

'Well!'

'All the wise men, from David downwards, have made asses of themselves about women; and why
should I be wiser than the rest?'

'That's nonsense, you know.'

'Very likely.'

'I am trying to talk to you in earnest.'

'You make such a failure of it, old boy, that I am compelled to talk nonsense in return. The
idea of your preaching! Here I am with nothing special to do, and I like to amuse myself. Ought
not that to be enough for you?'

'But what is to be the end of it?' Dick Shand asked, very solemnly.

'How can I tell? But the absurdity is that such a man as you should talk about the end of anything.
Did you ever look before you leaped in your life?'

'We are to be together, you know, and it won't do for us to be hampered with that woman.'

'Won't it? Then let me tell you that, if I choose to hamper myself with that woman, or with
a whole harem of women, and am not deterred by any consideration for myself, I certainly shall
not be deterred by any consideration for you. Do you understand me?'

'That is not being a true partner,' said Shand.

'I'm quite sure of this,--that I'm likely to be as true as you are. I'm not aware that I have
entered into any terms with you by which I have bound myself to any special mode of living.
I have left England, as I fancy you have done also, because I desired more conventional freedom
than one can find among the folk at home. And now, on the first outset, I am to be cautioned
and threatened by you because I have made acquaintance with a young woman. Of all the moral
pastors and masters that one might come across in the world, you, Dick Shand, appear to me
to be the most absurd. But you are so far right as this, that if my conduct is shocking to
you, you had better leave me to my wickedness.'

'You are always so d---- upsetting,' said Dick, 'that no one can speak to you.' Then Dick turned
away, and there was nothing more said about Mrs. Smith on that occasion.

The next to try her hand was Mrs. Callander. By this time the passengers had become familiar
with the ship, and knew what they might and what they might not do. The second-class passengers
were not often found intruding across the bar, but the first-class frequently made visits to
their friends amidships. In this way Mrs. Callander had become acquainted with our two gold-seekers,
and often found herself in conversation with one or the other. Even Miss Green, as has been
stated before, would come and gaze upon the waves from the inferior part of the deck.

'What a very nice voyage we are having, Mr. Caldigate,' Mrs. Callander said one afternoon.

'Yes, indeed. It is getting a little cold now, but we shall enjoy that after all the heat.'

'Quite so; only I suppose it will be very cold when we get quite south. You still find yourself
tolerably comfortable.'

'I shall be glad to have it over,' said Caldigate, who had in truth become disgusted with Dick's
snoring.

'I daresay,--I am sure we shall. My young people are getting very tired of it. Children, when
they are accustomed to every comfort on shore, of course feel it grievously. I suppose you
are rather crowded?'

'Of course we are crowded. One can't have a twenty-foot square room on board ship.'

'No, indeed. But then you are with your friend, and that is much pleasanter than a stranger.'

'That would depend on whether the stranger snored, Mrs. Callander.'

'Don't talk of snoring, Mr. Caldigate. If you only heard Mr. Callander! But, as I was saying,
you must have some very queer characters down there.' She had not been saying anything of the
kind, but she found a difficulty in introducing her subject.

'Take them altogether, they are a very decent, pleasant, well-mannered set of people, and all
of them in earnest about their future lives.'

'Poor creatures! But I dare say they're very good.' Then she paused a moment, and looked into
his face. She had undertaken a duty, and she was not the woman to shrink from it. So she told
herself at that moment. And yet she was very much afraid of him as she saw the squareness of
his forehead, and the set of his mouth. And there was a frown across his brow, as though he
were preparing himself to fight. 'You must have found it hard to accommodate yourselves to
them, Mr. Caldigate?'

'Not at all.'

'Of course we all know that you are a gentleman.'

'I am much obliged to you; but I do not know any word that requires a definition so much as
that. I am going to work hard to earn my bread; and I suppose these people are going to do
the same.'

'There always will be some danger in such society,' said Mrs. Callander.

'I hope I may escape any great evil.'

'I hope so too, Mr. Caldigate. You probably have had a long roll of ancestors before you?'

'We all have that;--back to Adam.'

'Ah! but I mean a family roll, of which you ought to be proud;--all ladies and gentlemen.'

'Upon my word I don't know.'

'So I hear, and I have no doubt it is true.' Then she paused, looking again into his face.
It was very square, and his lips were hard, and there was a gleam of anger in his eyes. She
wished herself back again in her own part of the ship; but she had boasted to Miss Green that
she was not the woman to give up a duty when she had undertaken it. Though she was frightened,
still she must go on. 'I hope you will excuse me, Mr. Caldigate.'

'I am sure you will not say anything that I cannot excuse.'

'Don't you think--' Then she paused. She had looked into his face again, and was so little
satisfied that she did not dare to go on. He would not help her in the least, but stood there
looking at her, with something of a smile stealing over the hardness of his face, but with
such an expression that the smile was even worse than the hardness.

'Were you going to speak to me about another lady, Mrs. Callander?'

'I was. That is what I was going to speak of--'

She was anxious to remonstrate against that word lady, but her courage failed her.

'Then don't you think that perhaps you had better leave it alone. I am very much obliged to
you, and all that kind of thing; and as to myself, I really shouldn't care what you said. Any
good advice would be taken most gratefully,--if it didn't affect any one else. But you might
say things of the lady in question which I shouldn't bear patiently.'

'She can't be your equal.'

'I won't hear even that patiently. You know nothing about her, except that she is a second-class
passenger,--in which matter she is exactly my equal. If you come to that, don't you think that
you are degrading yourself in coming here and talking to me? I am not your equal.'

'But you are.'

'And so is she, then. We shan't arrive at anything, Mrs. Callander, and so you had better give
it up.' Whereupon she did give it up and retreat to her own part of the ship, but not with
a very good grace.

They had certainly become very intimate,--John Caldigate and Mrs. Smith; and there could be
no doubt that, in the ordinary language of the world, he was making a fool of himself. He did
in fact know nothing about her but what she told herself, and this amounted to little more
than three statements, which might or might not be true,--that she had gone on the stage in
opposition to her friends,--that she had married an actor, who had treated her with great cruelty,--and
that he had died of drink. And with each of these stories there had been an accompaniment of
mystery. She had not told him her maiden name, nor what had been the condition of her parents,
nor whether they were living, nor at what theatres she and her husband had acted, nor when
he had died. She had expressed a hope that she might get an engagement in the colonies, but
she had not spoken of any recommendation or letters of introduction. He simply knew of her
that her name was Euphemia Smith.

In that matter of her clothes there had been a great improvement, but made very gradually.
She had laughed at her own precautions, saying, that in her poverty she had wished to save
everything that could be saved, and that she had only intended to make herself look like others
in the same class. 'And I had wanted to avoid all attention,--at first,' she said, smiling,
as she looked up at him.

'In which you have been altogether unsuccessful he replied, 'as you are certainly more talked
about than any one in the ship.'

'Has it been my fault?' she asked.

Then he comforted her, saying that it certainly had not been her fault; that she had been reticent
and reserved till she had been either provoked or invited to come forth; and, in fact, that
her conduct had been in all respects feminine, pretty, and decorous;--as to all which he was
not perhaps the best judge in the world.

But she was certainly much pleasanter to look at, and even to talk to, now that she had put
on a small, clean, black felt hat instead of the broken straw, and had got out from her trunks
a pretty warm shawl, and placed a ribbon or two about her in some indescribable manner, and
was no longer ashamed of showing her shoes as she sat about upon the deck. There could be no
doubt, as she was seen now, that she was the most attractive female on board the ship; but
it may be doubted whether the anger of the Mrs. Cromptons, Mrs. Callanders, and Miss Greens
was mitigated by the change. The battle against her became stronger, and the duty of rescuing
that infatuated young man from her sorceries was more clear than ever;--if only anything could
be done to rescue him!

What could be done? Mrs. Smith could not be locked up. No one,--not even the Captain,--could
send her down to her own wretched little cabin because she would talk with a gentleman. Talking
is allowed on board ship, and even flirting, to a certain extent. Mrs. Smith's conduct with
Mr. Caldigate was not more peculiar than that of Miss Green and the doctor. Only it pleased
certain people to think that Miss Green might be fond of the doctor if she chose, and that
Mrs. Smith had no right to be fond of any man. There was a stubbornness about both the sinners
which resolved to set public opinion at defiance. The very fact that others wished to interfere
with him made Caldigate determined to resent all interference; and the woman, with perhaps
a deeper insight into her own advantages, was brave enough to be able to set opposition at
defiance.

They were about a week from their port when the captain,--Captain Munday,--was induced to take
the matter into his own hands. It is hardly too much to say that he was pressed to do so by
the united efforts of the first-class passengers. It was dreadful to think that this unfortunate
young man should go on shore merely to become the prey of such a woman as that. So Captain
Munday, who at heart was not afraid of his passenger,--but who persisted in saying that no
good could be done, and who had, as may be remembered, already made a slight attempt,--was
induced to take the matter in hand. He came up to Caldigate on the deck one afternoon, and
without any preface began his business. 'Mr. Caldigate,' he said, 'I am afraid you are getting
into a scrape with one of your fellow-passengers.'

'What do you call a scrape, Captain Munday?'

'I should call it a scrape if a young gentleman of your position and your prospects were to
find himself engaged on board ship to marry a woman he knew nothing about.'

'Do you know anything about my position and prospects, Captain Munday?'

'I know you are a gentleman.'

'And I think you know less about the lady.'

'I know nothing;--but I will tell you what I hear.'

'I really would rather that you did not. Of course, Captain Munday, on board your own ship
you are a despot, and I must say that you have made everything very pleasant for us. But I
don't think even your position entitles you to talk to me about my private affairs,--or about
hers. You say you know nothing. Is it manly to repeat what one hears about a poor forlorn woman?'
Then the Captain retreated without another word, owning to himself that he was beaten. If this
foolish young man chose to make for himself a bed of that kind he must lie upon it. Captain
Munday went away shrugging his shoulders, and spoke no further word to John Caldigate on that
or any other subject during the voyage.

Caldigate had driven off his persecutors valiantly, and had taught them all to think that he
was resolute in his purposes in regard to Mrs. Smith, let those purposes be what they might;
but nothing could be further from the truth; for he had no purposes and was, within his own
mind, conscious of his lack of all purpose, and very conscious of his folly. And though he
could repel Mrs. Callander and the Captain,--as he had always repelled those who had attempted
to control him,--still he knew that they had been right. Such an intimacy as this could not
be wise, and its want of wisdom became the more strongly impressed upon him the nearer he got
to shore, and the more he felt that when he had got ashore he should not know how to act in
regard to her.

The intimacy had certainly become very close. 

"Silence!" commanded the general. He was able to avenge himself by the laws of war run wild made,
but such a vengeance not to admit to himself or his victim. "How did you here left behind?
"he asked.

Zgraggen, who spoke a familiar Lombard began heartily: "In the field of Pavia I was wounded and was
ridden down, the bent skewer next to me. Nightly way I then dragged me to the mountains, hungry
and begging. Lord, You see right from the two poplars, the long red roof? There, the Narracivallia
lives with her husband. This necessarily Field work for me - until the war had moved, now
I would surely not on the Border. I made the pass after Narracivallia eyes. Then I appeared in
the sleep of the father and two grandfathers, which I still live at home, although the ancestors in
great weakness. First came the father, raised his finger and said, 'Take care, Bläsi! " Then came the
paternal Ahn, folded his hands and said, 'Think of your soul, Bläsi! " Last came the maternal
Ahn, showed the door and said, 'Run, Bläsi! " Then I shot and looked for my clothes. Course my silk
gloves, and my collar had stitched me abgeschwatzt the Narracivallia, in order to make in the Papal
States. I was only half of my mind powerful and lost it, because I stand in the morning light
at Holy wounds to the English greeting and - you thinks my horror - catch sight of myself, as
I am living body, and stab and God!

"Why," Pescara smiled.

"A rogue piece!" Zgraggen angry. "Know, sir, a few Pinsler had zeither with their witness as
hanging around and were given once a dairy farm a glass of milk. The one caught me in the eye.
'Since we have that we need, "he says, and inspected my Black and yellow. 'Man, brings Euern spit
and armor. " I told him do the will. Now I say Pinsler spreading of the legs, it also spreads
and tears off down on a piece of canvas.

Then I promised the thieves to get my picture with high honors, but I am in stab wounds and
in the Holy Saviour! "

The captain felt a certain good will for the honest journeymen.

"Take," he called in a strange mood and held out his full bag of Uri.

This took him with his right hand and left the counting gold pieces slide into the left, serious
and thoughtful. Then he pushed the ducats in his pocket and tried
to make the bag the general.

"Remember! He has golden loops!"

The Uri sent to the purse the ducats. "Where your Stellet me in, sir?"
he asked.

He could think of nothing except that it advertised Pescara and earnest
money if he did.

Pescara replied: "I have not hired you, and I mean, after the dreie
up as serious admonished, have you come back the best in your home
and nourish you shall be as the saying goes.

"

"But why should you give me so much money, where I have done nothing for the sake of you?" asked
Zgraggen. But much suffering, "he added in thought. These retaliatory Pescara exceeded the capacity
of the Urner and frightened his honesty.

"From generosity," joked the general.

Bläsi did not know the word. Then he remembered that it would mean boast, and he in the camp was
often seen as bragging throwing away money with both hands, he calmed down there. "Yes way,"
he said. Pescara waved but to show off his horse.

"And so you can get away," the commander said, even in the temple, "take this yet" He threw
Passiermarke one, and little was missing, would have thanked Zgraggen. At least he wanted to
long life do, but the commander farewell look at, he recognized the
infirmity in the face with his Alpine eyes, which all the world's
deceptive intellectual life of the same not bribed.

Instinctively he wished: "May God grant you blessed resurrection, Lord!" Then his own speech and their
evil significance dismay, he ran across country with his half-sticks,
he carefully removed, and now introduced as a travel rod.

The Spaniards had been watching in wonder, The old sergeant shook
his head and superstitious worrying about the strange Generosity of
his low general.

The squad, which Uri had caught one, to the hordes who now approached in a cloud of dust behind
the beating drums. The general rode to meet his brave, received by roaring cheers, and drove
the horse between the field and the first music company, whose captain was respectful space.

For
a while he remained alone at the head of the troops. As approached from a mounted in Novara white
coat and joined him. Together they rode through the castle gate.

Silently followed the passage of the companion of Pescara, and crossed
the threshold of the room behind him.

Pescara turned. "What do you want, Moncada?" he asked, and answered, "A conversation without witnesses,
you will not refuse me a second time. "

"I am at your service."

"Your excellency," began the knight, "I like your erlaubtet, said the chancellor over there. He
was full of anxiety and pallor and protested with a thousand oaths that he had come, and delay to obtain
easier terms, but this had led him to Novara.

Then talked he very confused as the bad conscience. This man is an abyss of lies in which the
view is lost. I am sure he is in the name of the league here. "

"No different," said the general.

"And that he has offered you the lead of the same?"

"No different."

Now noise was in the hall. Ippolito aside throwing wild with frenzied gestures crazy eyes and rushed
to the Registrar. He was followed on the heels, both already armored, Bourbon and Del Guasto,
whom he met on the way and wanted to hold him back. In desperation, he threw himself at the captain's
feet, while Moncada slowly in the background retreated.

"My Pescara," cried the frightened, "all the patience comes to an end, I can not torture the longer
tolerate. Every minute stretches me to the agonizing eternity.

I am undone. Be merciful and give me your answer! "

Pescara replied calmly: "Forgive, Chancellor, if I have let you wait for my time. was not free,
but I just wanted to send for you. Your speech yesterday has occupied me because the fate of
a people is no small thing - but please, Sit ye, I can not speak, if your sign dareinreden
so hard. "

The Registrar desperately grabbed the back of a chair.

"I have weighed the matter ... but, Chancellor, we first let everything personal, thinks away
of yourself and of me, the question remains: Worth Italy at that hour, the freedom and it is
good, as it is now constituted, to receive and maintain? I think so. " The general spoke slowly,
as if he was checking his every word on the scales of justice.

"Twice, freedom has lived in Italy, at different times. In the early Roman Republic, as the welfare state
was all. Then in those beautiful communities, Milan, Pisa and the others. But now it is on
the threshold of servitude, because it's going on and single all honor and all virtue. Since
no one can save and help neither a man nor a God. How lost freedom is recovered? Due to a coming
from the depths of the people And storm surge of moral forces. About how they are now conquering
faith in Germania with the flames of hatred and love.

But here! Where in Italy is, I'm not saying faith and conscience, as the old for you Things are,
but the legal sense and conviction? Not even honor and shame is still you, only the naked selfishness.
What vermöget you Italians?

Seduction, betrayal and assassination. What are you while I count? On the favor of the facts on the
dice of chance, the play of Policy. So, so no nation is founded renewed. Verily I say unto you,
Chancellor "- and Pescara raised his voice as to a verdict - "your Italy is arbitrary and
fantastic, like yourself and your conspiracy it! "

"Truth," was heard the voice of Moncada.

"Even the hero, Morone, the habet their chosen you, devoid of life."

But this quiet last words were shouted at Pescara. Morone had his head quickly turned and saw
the knight his attack as he saw the Spaniard revealed, fell he in a rage, his features distorted,
and he raged like a madman. "False and cruel! Wrong and cruel! Oh, I beaten with blindness!
"Then overwhelmed by mindless vengeance, he shouted against Moncada: "Know it, knight, this"
- he pointed to the commander - "is the culprit! Because of him the whole conspiracy! I am
his creature, and now I sacrifice the monster! "

Now the Duke jumped in, with the Del Guasto standing behind the passionate Pescara Occurs enjoyed.
"Saute, Paillasse mon ami, pour tout le monde saute!" he taunted Morone. "Yes, if we had not
listened to, we two BWA, behind the red curtain and the golden Tassel there! I must tell the
time, treasure, it's hilarious. Did not hear you, I auspfiff you? "Then, suddenly becoming
serious, he turned down the view of Moncada, put his hand on his chest, emphasizing that: "In
my royal blood, has the commander at that hour is not yesterday's hair fluctuated widely in
his honor and loyalty! "

Morone was destroyed. Del Guasto laid hands on him and pulled him away. "Lord Chancellor" he
scoffed, "you bedanket will save you the torture our listening." The Duke was, a pleading
gesture Pescara obedience.

"Your excellency," began Moncada, "here I am convinced. This Ye always just your game driven perhaps
condescending, as is seemly for Spanish pride. With such a man conspired no Pescara. But, your excellency,
in his impotent rage, this mendacious Spoken truth when he accused you, the author of Italian conspiracy
be. Not the author, but the beneficiaries. Do not discouraging habet, you nourished and raised. It
was easy to say a decisive word, and to halt their support with an
indignant and highly visible gesture.

This did not you habet. It defers as a dark and interpretable form. "

"Knight", Pescara interrupted him, "Do not I have to give account of my tuna and leave, but only
my Emperor. "

"Your king," said Moncada. "To call it, you commanded the respect, because a King of Spain
is more than the emperor.

And the grandson of Ferdinand is a King of Spain be.

Karl develops slowly, and under different competing influences, but
his Spanish blood is growing in strength and his German soak up the
last drop.

He loathed the heresy, and his piety will make him a Spaniard. "He said this with a quiet smile
and enthusiastic eyes shine.

"Avalos," he continued, "your fathers who fought for the faith against
the Muslim nations, sailed up your ancestor with that of Alfonso in
Naples.

Return to your origins! The noble blood flows in your veins. As you can see that the great
loves procrastinating between the Spanish world of thought and the wretched Italian machinations?
Ours is the Earth, as she obeyed once the Romans. See the wonderful ways of God: Castile and
Aragon married, Burgundy and Flanders acquired the empire gained a discovered and conquered new
world, and all that dominant, people with a steeled, a blessed, twofold in blood baptized heathen
sword!

What gave you that misery, Spain gives you a thousand times: Treasures, country, fame, and -
heaven!

Because we are fighting for the heavens and the Catholic belief that a church rule on earth.
Otherwise, God became man would be in vain. Foreseeing, as in these days Hell defile the Holy See
and its last heresy, the Germanic monk will spew, he created the Spaniards, to clean those and
to crush them. Therefore there giving us the world to prey, because everything on earth has
divine purpose. I have long discussions minded in my Sicilian monastery and believed to be the Chosen
One himself well for this spiritual army. Since it was shown to me in a vision, the other, the sage.
I was unworthy of such honor, because of my sin, and stepped back into the world. "Pescara silent
and regarded the ecstatic.

"But I work as long as it is day. No year is up, I stood behind Ferdinand Cortez, because of him
on the mountains of the demon the golden battlements of Mexico showed how it to you now, Pescara,
Italy shows. This hand held back the stumbling, and now I extend it against you, Pescara you'll
be a son of Spain, which is the world and in the glory suspended Catholic Ferdinand protected.
"

Now the captain broke his silence and angry, "Give me those do not, he gave me the Father killed!
"

Moncada sighed heavily.

"You repent?"

The Knights beat his chest crushed and murmured, saying to himself:
"My Sin ... my sin ... unconfessed and non-fed!

"

Since Pescara guessed that this Fromme not regret his murder, but that he accomplished a spiritually
unprepared. "Get away from me!" he commanded.

Moncada stepped up to the threshold, as if waking from a dream. Then he gathered and said, "Excuse
me, your excellency I was absent even a sober word I know!.. Your goal is not. Still, I am not
your enemy. Either way you will take Milan. This first step does not contain any fidelity or infidelity.
I expect Euern second, if your Duke absetzet and punish the outrage. Do you not there, so you
betray your king and Spain! " And he disappeared.

Pescara, retired and enjoying food. Then he received before his blazing fire, the lack of an autumn
evening was not allowed, the Duke of Del Guasto and gave them his final orders. The rest of the
time he used to sift his secret papers: what is a powerful turns, a world of wickedness. He destroyed
most of it throwing in the kitchen: he did not want anyone spoiling. Even the secret letter from
the Emperor should Disappear, but his ashes mingle with the rest
themselves.

He had a glowing Brazier bring in the blue flame, he burned the letter of his Emperor. When
he had finished his candles had already eaten half: it went to midnight. Pescara crossed his arms
over his chest and fell into such a deep sense that he steps an entrant is not heard. Then he said
to him: "What is your goal, Avalos?" He saw Moncada.

The general put his hand in the extinguished coal basin, she closed and held it against Moncada.
"My goal?" he said and opened his hand: dust and ashes.

Now Drommetenrufe rang through the castle. Drum roll followed. Everything was moving. The general
could be arming of his servants. When he with flickering torch light on the spears and armor,
reflected the paved hall entered the ground floor, He saw his black animal, which, harnessed precious,
with impatient hooves spark proposed from the floor, next to a litter
with two light trotters.

Both he had ordered the choice of reserving the moment. With a sigh, he mounted the litter,
its starting again Pains to conceal it, and disappeared through the gate, while his despised
war- behaved angrily and the groom, who wanted to climb it, threw off. It was his Lord be tracked
single.

Now also the Chancellor was taken captive. Spanish soldiers surrounded him, robbed him of his chain,
his rings, his bag and put him not to be noble mule from the Milanese
stables, but its back on a poor donkey whose tail she moved to her
cruel nature of the bound hands.

Then it went through the Tor under a hellish laughter, in which the Chancellor of despair with
matched.

Last Chapter

Meanwhile, lived in the castle of fortune from a dwelling to a fear has become Castles of Milan
Francesco Sforza miserable days and worse nights, helpless and clueless calling for his chancellor.
He had received the visit Del Guastos, who came to him to report,
his general had received before the deadline expiring chancellor of
Milan, but that he, stupid instead of the expected concessions in
the name of sovereignty as well as criminal Openings made that determine
the general, without delay, by the way in the spirit of his first
threat to march on Milan, and to proceed against the sovereign as
a traitor.

Del Guasto had gloated over the trembling of the Duke and vanished from the city. While the imperial
forces approached in rapid marches, and even then she already were on the walls of Milan in
sight, had the faint-hearted between passing and defense fluctuated, but was then a few brave
Lombard nobles to the path of honor torn and finally transformed himself in a warlike mood, that
he by virtue of his grandfather's blood was not completely incapacitated. He left with an
artfully forged Armor clothe and put a helmet on a beautiful embossed on the weak Head.

It is a fact that he was standing in the large hill, at the moment because its Pescara Troops led
the assault against it. In a trembling voice told the Duke the fire of his exquisite guns.
As the smoke cleared, the field was covered with Spaniards. Between Dead and wounded exceeded
Pescara, a few more besides and still unmatched by the many under
the leadership of Del Guastos stormy pursuing him.

He had no armor. The helmet he was torn from his head, and his dark cloak fluttered in tatters. In
flaming red Dress, with calm and steady steps, he went far ahead, a gleaming two-handed sword swinging.
It was as steps of the strangler's death in person against the hill,
and since there at the same moment the bad news spread, the Borbone
had used the south gate and Leyva storms from the north gate, grabbed
the pale fright of the crew.

The re- charged pieces were left unresolved, the main people who threw themselves against the
Furchtbetörten, were trampled, and the panicked tore the Duke away with it.

As he returned to his palace, with wandering steps walked into the throne room, see, there fell
from his eyes goldbrokatene and worked with lions and eagles clothing of the canopy together. In
the general confusion, the duke had upholsterer sneaked into the
room and eased the gem to steal it was, but before to the approaching
roar escaped empty-handed. frightened by the bad omen The Duke threw
a chair in despair and covered his face with both hands, his lot and
waiting for the winner.

This was not a long wait on themselves.

A short noise - the loyal palace guard Swiss was struck down or disarmed - and Pescara entered
the room, bareheaded and without a sword, behind him, Charles of Bourbon, helmeted, in full
armor, sword in a bloody fist. He was first of the storm on the ladder, with the same set back
in the moat was without But seriously hurting.

The Marquis bowed to his vanquished who roused himself from his seat. "Your Highness calm down,
"said Pescara." I'm not the enemy, but of sovereignty and again in duty to take care of your liege lord,
the Emperor. "

Sforza raised her eyes, and he in the face of superior scorn neither
read nor punishment, but more participating insight and gentleness,
broke out of the untenable boy in tears and stammered: "In my heart
I am the majesty always been faithful, she has no more devoted servant
improve and vassal, but I was misguided wretch was misled ... my hell
Chancellor ... and armed resistance, I have not ordered ... I was
pushed, encountered ... of the Valabrega and a few other gentlemen
... when all the apostles and martyrs, I am not an Italian patriot,
but the beleaguered prince in the most impossible situation!

"

That total contrition of the grandson and great-grandson of two heroes
of the commander seemed embarrassed to touch.

But he did penance run free, but declined, apparently out of deference,
which finally becomes silent his hand, which sought to take this.

He was afraid of Destroyed completely kiss she wants.

During this self-abasement, and the bottom of his heart bitter tasting, sipping Charles Bourbon,
who had remained behind Pescara, slow trains in a full cup, he beckoned
from a get-rich pages and had allowed.

"Highness," said the captain, "I have full power. If it is convinced of this that you become involved
in a false and dangerous game, and when the firm will can make in
you, henceforth seek your salvation where it is, the Emperor, and
the Majesty to yield to never, I venture on my responsibility, your
pardon and to take your hand out grant.

Sovereignty must believe me, you drive in any case better with the emperor, as with the League.
"

Now he saw the unexpected mildness of the Moor's son suddenly made another suspicious as the
presumed fate of the suspect behaved like a ruse, and his hand hesitated, trembling. "Sovereign
right to trust," he said forcefully. "The Emperor and I keep my word."

Sforza shook hands, and the commander added, kindly: "I know the difficult situation the sovereignty
and - if I may say it - your unfortunate ill by a youth and weakened soul. It requires above
all the continuity. In the path of the emperor walking and persistent, you will be squandered
by any time-wave. I personally, "concluded he, his didacticism, in
mitigation, in an almost affectionate tone, "was the sovereignty fed
than ever, from you for my role models, your two wonderful ancestors,
although I am both, "joked he, "have stolen some sleep in my youth,
such a stimulus and spike is masculinity and magnanimity. "

Francesco
Sforza comforted that this friendship, but still anxiously asked:
"And I remain Duke? Your word, Pescara?

"Unbreakable. If I do something
about the Emperor can, and if your vermöget it, your soul to fix.
"

"And my chancellor nothing happens?"

"I do not think so, Your
Highness," promised Pescara.

"He is my minister?"

The general could
not get over a smile on the inseparability of this couple. "Your Highness
forgets that you just Girolamo Morone called the most destructive
of all Guides added. I recommend sovereignty, from the Imperial Majesty
for this difficult office a others and to ask wiser heads. There is
that in Italy, it need not be a Spaniard. "

"No way, Your Highness!
Your Registrar to get out not!" mingled now the Bourbon conversation.
"The Helena is my booty."

Francesco Sforza stared at Bourbon with
anxious eyes. "The here?" he groaned. "He wants my Milan! He dreams
of many more. Help me, Pescara powerful! "

Since blared Bourbon,
as he destroys himself, with an angry union are crystalline Glass
on the marble floors that with shrill discord zerfuhr in tatters.
"Highness," he said, "There lies my principality of Milan!"

While
the pieces were flying, with a stepped Moncada Leyva, from top to
bottom with dust and blood stained. "Your excellency," began the knight,
"I congratulate you on your current beautiful victory, which, again
gained full force, joins so many others. I held me in the hall proper.
But I heard you laughing and cups, and when that arrived Leyva, has
taken the north gate and also earned his trunk I dared to enter, and
I think the right time. Because I mean, here is held court, and jurisdiction
Bourbon has this treacherous Duke, symbolically his deserved demise
proclaimed. And then they had no friend, not even an
acquaintance, within some hundred miles. The men around them were not uncivil. Australian miners
never are so. But they were inquisitive, familiar, and with their half-drunken good-humour,
almost repulsive. It was about noon when our friends reached Henniker's, and they were told
that there would be dinner at one. There was always 'grub' at one, and 'grub' at seven, and
'grub' at eight in the morning. So one of the men informed them. The same gentleman hoped that
the strangers were not very particular, as the 'grub,' though plentiful was apt to be rough
of its kind.

'You'll have it a deal worse before you've done if you're going on to Ahalala,' said another.
Then Caldigate said that they did intend to go on to Ahalala. 'We're going to have a spell
at gold-digging,' said he. What was the use of making any secret of the matter? 'We knowed
that ready enough,' said one of the men. 'Chaps like you don't come much to Nobble for nothing
else. Have you got any money to start with?'

'A few half-crowns,' said Dick, cautiously.

'Half-crowns don't go very far here, my mate. If you can spend four or five pounds a-week each
for the next month, so as to get help till you know where you are, it may be you'll turn up
gold at Ahalala;--but if not, you'd better go elsewhere. You needn't be afraid. We ain't a-going
to rob you of nothing.'

'Nor yet we don't want nothing to drink,' said another.

'Speak for yourself, Jack,' said a third. 'But come;--as these are regular new chums, I don't
care if I shout for the lot myself.' Then the dirty old woman was summoned, and everybody had
whisky all round. When that was done, another generous man came to the front, and there was
more whisky, till Caldigate was frightened as to the result.

Evil might have come from it, had not the old woman opportunely brought the 'grub' into the
room. This she chucked down on the table in such a way that the grease out of the dish spattered
itself all around. There was no tablecloth, nor had any preparation been made; but in the middle
of the table there was a heap of dirty knives and forks, with which the men at once armed themselves;
and each took a plate out of a heap that had been placed on a shelf against the wall. Caldigate
and Shand, when they saw how the matter was to be arranged, did as the other men. The 'grub'
consisted of an enormous lump of boiled beef, and a bowl of potatoes, which was moderate enough
in size considering that there were in all about a dozen men to be fed. But there was meat
enough for double the number, and bread in plenty, but so ill-made as to be rejected by most
of the men. The potatoes were evidently the luxury; and, guided by that feeling, the man who
had told the strangers that they need not be afraid of being robbed, at once selected six out
of the bowl, and deposited three each before Dick and Caldigate. He helped the others all round
to one each, and then was left without any for himself. 'I don't care a damn for that sort
of tucker,' he said, as though he despised potatoes from the bottom of his heart. Of all the
crew he was the dirtiest, and was certainly half drunk. Another man holloaed to 'Mother Henniker'
for pickles; but Mother Henniker, without leaving her seat at the bar, told them to 'pickle
themselves.' Whereupon one of the party, making some allusion to Jack Brien's swag,--Jack Brien
being absent at the moment,--rose from his seat and undid a great roll lying in one of the
corners. Every miner has his swag,--consisting of a large blanket which is rolled up, and contains
all his personal luggage. Out of Jack Brien's swag were extracted two large square bottles
of pickles. These were straightway divided among the men, care being taken that Dick and Caldigate
should have ample shares. Then every man helped himself to beef, as much as he would, passing
the dish round from one to the other. When the meal was half finished, Mrs. Henniker brought
in an enormous jorum of tea, which she served out to all the guests in tin pannikins, giving
to every man a fixed and ample allowance of brown sugar, without at all consulting his taste.
Milk there was none. In the midst of this Jack Brien came in, and with a clamour of mirth the
empty pickle jars were shown him. Jack, who was a silent man, and somewhat melancholy, merely
shook his head and ate his beef. It may be presumed that he was fond of pickles, having taken
so much trouble to provide them; but he said not a word of the injury to which he had been
subjected.

'Them's a-going to Ahalala, Jack,' said the distributor of the potatoes, nodding his head to
indicate the two new adventurers.

'Then they're a-going to the most infernal, mean, ----, ---- break-heartedest place as God
Almighty ever put on this 'arth for the perplexment of poor unfortunate ---- ---- miners.'
This was Jack Brien's eloquence, and his description of Ahalala. Before this he had not spoken
a word, nor did he speak again till he had consumed three or four pounds of beef, and had swallowed
two pannikins of tea. Then he repeated his speech: 'There isn't so ---- ---- an infernal, mean,
break-hearted a place as Ahalala,--not nowhere; no, not nowhere. And so them chums'll find
for theirselves if they go there.' Then his neighbour whispered into Caldigate's ear that Jack
had gone to Ahalala with fifty sovereigns in his pocket, and that he wasn't now worth a red cent.

'But there is gold there?' asked Caldigate.

'It's my belief there's gold pretty much everywhere, and you may find it, or you mayn't. That's
where it is;--and the mayn'ts are a deal oftener turning up than the mays.'

'A man can get work for wages,' suggested Dick.

'Wages! What's the use of that? A man as knows mining can earn wages. But Ahalala aint a place
for wages. If you want wages, go to one of the old-fashioned places,--Bendigo, or the like
of that. I've worked for wages, but what comes of it? A man goes to Ahalala because he wants
to run his chance, and get a big haul. It's every one on his own bottom pretty much at Ahalala.'

'Wages be ----!' said Jack Brien, rising from the seat and hitching up his trousers as he left
the room. It was very evident that Jack Brien was a gambler.

After dinner there was a smoke, and after the smoke Dick Shand 'shouted' for the company. Dick
had quite learned by this time the mystery of shouting. When one man 'stands' drinks all round,
he shouts; and then it is no more than reciprocal that another man should do the same. And,
in this way, when the reciprocal feeling is spread over a good many drinkers, a good deal of
liquor is consumed.

While Dick Shand's 'shout' was being consumed, Caldigate asked one of his new friends where
Mr. Crinkett lived. Was Mr. Crinkett known in Nobble? It seemed that Crinkett was very well
known in Nobble indeed. If anybody had done well at Nobble, Mr. Crinkett had done well. He
was the 'swell' of the place. This informant did not think that Mr. Crinkett had himself gone
very deep at Ahalala. Mr. Crinkett had risen high enough in his profession to be able to achieve
more certainty than could be found at such a place as Ahalala. By this time they were on the
road to Mr. Crinkett's house, this new friend having undertaken to show them the way.

'He can put you up to a thing or two, if he likes,' said the new friend. 'Perhaps he's a pal
of yourn?'

Caldigate explained that he had never seen Mr. Crinkett, but that he had come to Nobble armed
with a letter from a gentleman in England who had once been concerned in gold-digging.

'He's a civil enough gent, is Crinkett,' said the miner;--'but he do like making money. They
say of him there's nothing he wouldn't sell,--not even his grandmother's bones. I like trade,
myself,' added the miner; 'but some of 'em's too sharp. That's where Crinkett lives. He's a
swell; ain't he?'

They had walked about half a mile from the town, turning down a lane at the back of the house,
and had made their way through yawning pit-holes and heaps of dirt and pools of yellow water,--where
everything was disorderly and apparently deserted,--till they came to a cluster of heaps so
large as to look like little hills; and here there were signs of mining vitality. On their
way they had not come across a single shred of vegetation, though here and there stood the
bare trunks of a few dead and headless trees, the ghosts of the forest which had occupied the
place six or seven years previously. On the tops of these artificial hills there were sundry
rickety-looking erections, and around them were troughs and sheds and rude water-works. These,
as the miner explained were the outward and visible signs of the world-famous 'Old Stick-in-the-Mud'
claim, which was now giving two ounces of gold to the ton of quartz, and which was at present
the exclusive property of Mr. Crinkett, who had bought out the tribute shareholders and was
working the thing altogether on his own bottom. As they ascended one of those mounds of upcast
stones and rubble, they could see on the other side the crushing-mills, and the engine-house,
and could hear the thud, thud, thud of the great iron hammers as they fell on the quartz,--and
then, close beyond, but still among the hillocks, and surrounded on all sides by the dirt and
filth of the mining operations, was Mr. Crinkett's mansion. 'And there's his very self a-standing
at the gate a-counting how many times the hammer falls a minute, and how much gold is a-coming
from every blow as it falls.' With this little observation as to Mr. Crinkett's personal character,
the miner made his way back to his companions.

Chapter X

Polyeuka Hall

The house which they saw certainly surprised them much, and seemed to justify the assertion
just before made to them that Mr. Crinkett was a swell. It was marvellous that any man should
have contemplated the building of such a mansion in a place so little attractive, with so many
houses within view. The house and little attempted garden, together with the stables and appurtenances,
may have occupied half an acre. All around it were those hideous signs of mining operations
which make a country rich in metals look as though the devil had walked over it, dragging behind
him an enormous rake. There was not a blade of grass to be seen. As far as the eye could reach
there stood those ghost-like skeletons of trees in all spots where the soil had not been turned
up; but on none of them was there a leaf left, or even a branch. Everywhere the ground was
thrown about in hideous uncovered hillocks, all of which seemed to have been deserted except
those in the immediate neighbourhood of Mr. Crinkett's house. But close around him one could
see wheels turning and long ropes moving, and water running in little wooden conduits, all
of which were signs of the activity going on under ground. And then there was the never-ceasing
thud, thud, thud of the crushing-mill, which from twelve o'clock on Sunday night to twelve
o'clock on Saturday night, never paused for a moment, having the effect, on that vacant day,
of creating a painful strain of silence upon the ears of those who were compelled to remain
on the spot during the unoccupied time. It was said that in Mr. Crinkett's mansion every sleeper
would wake from his sleep as soon as the engine was stopped, disturbed by the unwonted quiescence.

But the house which had been built in this unpromising spot was quite entitled to be called
a mansion. It was of red brick, three storeys high, with white stone facings to all the windows
and all the corners, which glittered uncomfortably in the hot sun. There was a sweep up to
it, the road having been made from the débris of the stone out of which the gold had been crushed;
but though there was the sweep up to the door carefully made for the length of a few dozen
yards, there was nothing that could be called a road outside, though there were tracks here
and there through the hillocks, along which the waggons employed about the place struggled
through the mud. The house itself was built with a large hall in the middle, and three large
windows on each side. On the floor there were four large rooms, with kitchens opening out behind,
and above there were, of course, chambers in proportion and in the little garden there was
a pond and a big bath-house, and there were coach-houses and stables;--so that it was quite
a mansion. It was called Polyeuka Hall, because while it was being built Mr. Crinkett was drawing
large gains from the Polyeuka mine, about three miles distant on the other side of Nobble.
For the building of his mansion on this special site, no one could imagine any other reason
than that love which a brave man has of overcoming difficulties. To endeavour to create a paradise
in such a Pandemonium required all the energies of a Crinkett. Whether or not he had been successful
depended of course on his own idiosyncrasies. He had a wife who, it is to be hoped, liked her
residence. They had no children, and he spent the greater part of his time away in other mining
districts in which he had ventures. When thus absent, he would live as Jack Brien and his friends
were living at Mrs. Henniker's, and was supposed to enjoy the ease of his inn more thoroughly
than he did the constraint of his grand establishment.

At the present moment he was at home, and was standing at the gate of his domain all alone,
with a pipe in his mouth,--perhaps listening, as the man had said, to the noise of his own
crushing-machine. He was dressed in black, with a chimney-pot on his head,--and certainly did
not look like a miner, though he looked as little like a gentleman. Our friends were in what
they conceived to be proper miners' costume, but Mr. Crinkett knew at a glance that there was
something uncommon about them. As they approached he did not attempt to open the gate, but
awaited them, looking over the top of it from the inside. 'Well, my mates, what can I do for
you?' he said, still remaining on his side, and apparently intending that they should remain
on theirs. Then Caldigate brought forth his letter, and handed it to the owner of the place
across the top of the gate. 'I think Mr. Jones wrote to you about us before,' said Caldigate.

Crinkett read the letter very deliberately. Perhaps he required time to meditate what his conduct
should be. Perhaps he was not quick at reading written letters. But at last he got to the end
of the very few words which the note contained. 'Jones!' he said, 'Jones wasn't much account
when he was out here.'

'We don't know a great deal about him,' said Dick.

'But when he heard that we were coming, he offered us a letter to you,' said Caldigate. 'I
believe him to be an honest man.'

'Honest! Well, yes; I daresay he's honest enough. He never robbed me of nothing. And shall
I tell you why? Because I know how to take care that he don't, nor yet nobody else.' As he
said this, he looked at them as though he intended that they were included among the numbers
against whom he was perfectly on his guard.

'That's the way to live,' said Dick.

'That's the way I live, my friend. He did write before. I remember saying to myself what a
pair of simpletons you must be if you was thinking of going to Ahalala.'

'We do think of going there,' said Caldigate.

'The road's open to you. Nobody won't prevent you. You can get beef and mutton there, and damper,
and tea no doubt, and what they call brandy, as long as you've got the money to pay for it.
One won't say anything about what price they'll charge you. Have you got any money?' Then Caldigate
made a lengthened speech, in which he explained so much of their circumstances as seemed necessary.
He did not name the exact sum which had been left at the bank in Melbourne, but he did make
Mr. Crinkett understand that they were not paupers. They were anxious to do something in the
way of mining, and particularly anxious to make money. But they did not quite know how to begin.
Could he give them a hint? They meant to work with their own hands, but perhaps it might be
well for them at first to hire the services of some one to set them a-going.

Crinkett listened very patiently, still maintaining his position on his own side of the gate.
Then he spoke words of such wisdom as was in him. 'Ahalala is just the place to ease you of
a little money. Mind I tell you. Gold! of course there's been gold to be got there. But what's
been the cost of it? What's been the return? If sixteen hundred men, among 'em, can sell fifteen
hundred pounds' worth of gold a week, how is each man to have twenty shillings on Saturday
night? That's about what it is at Ahalala. Of course there's gold. And where there's gold chucked
about in that way, just on the surface, one gets it and ten don't. Who is to say you mayn't
be the one. As to hiring a man to show you the way,--you can hire a dozen. As long as you'll
pay 'em ten shillings a-day to loaf about, you may have men enough. But whether they'll show
you the way to anything except the liquor store, that's another thing. Now shall I tell you
what you two gents had better do?' Dick declared that the two gents would be very much obliged
to him if he would take that trouble. 'Of course you've heard of the "Old Stick-in-the-Mud"?'
Dick told him that they had heard of that very successful mining enterprise since their arrival
at Nobble. 'You ask on the veranda at Melbourne, or at Ballarat, or at Sydney. If they don't
tell you about it, my name's not Crinkett. You put your money, what you've got, into ten-shilling
shares. I'll accommodate you, as you're friends of Jones, with any reasonable number. We're
getting two ounces to the ton. The books'll show you that.'

'We thought you'd purchased out all the shareholders said Caldigate.

'So I did, and now I'm redividing it. I'd rather have a company. It's pleasanter. If you can
put in a couple of thousand pounds or so between you, you can travel about and see the country,
and your money'll be working for you all the time. Did you ever see a gold mine?'

They owned that they never yet had been a yard below ground. Then he opened his gate preparatory
to taking them down the 'Old Stick-in-the-Mud,' and brought them with him into one of the front
rooms. It was a large parlour, only half furnished, not yet papered, without a carpet, in which
it appeared that Mr. Crinkett kept his own belongings. Here he divested himself of his black
clothes and put on a suit of miner's garments,--real miner's garments, very dirty, with a slouch
hat, on the top of which there was a lump of mud in which to stick a candle-end. Any one learned
in the matter would immediately have known the real miner. 'Now if you like to see a mine we
will go down, and then you can do as you like about your money.'

They started forth, Crinkett leading the way, and entered the engine-house. As they went he
said not a word, being aware that gold, gold that they could see with their eyes in its raw
condition, would tempt them more surely than all his eloquence. In the engine-house the three
of them got into a box or truck that was suspended over the mouth of a deep shaft, and soon
found themselves descending through the bowels of the earth. They went down about four hundred
feet, and as they were reaching the bottom Crinkett remarked that it was 'a goodish deep hole
all to belong to one man.' 'Yes,' he added as Caldigate extricated himself from the truck,
'and there's a precious lot more gold to come out of it yet, I can tell you.'

In all the sights to be seen about the world there is no sight in which there is less to be
seen than in a gold-mine. The two young men were made to follow their conductor along a very
dirty underground gallery for about a quarter of a mile, and then they came to four men working
with picks in a rough sort of chamber, and four others driving holes in the walls. They were
simply picking down the rock, in doing which they were assisted by gunpowder. With keen eyes
Crinkett searched along the roof and sides, and at last showed to his companions one or two
little specks which he pronounced to be gold. 'When it shows itself like that all about, you
may guess whether it's a paying concern! Two ounces to the ton, my boys!' As Dick and Caldigate
hitherto knew nothing about ounces and tons in reference to gold, and as they had heard of
nuggets, and lumps of gold nearly as big as their fist, they were not much exalted by what
they saw down the 'Old Stick-in-the-Mud.' Nor did they like the darkness and dampness and dirt
and dreariness of the place. They had both resolved to work, as they had often said, with their
own hands;--but in thinking over it their imagination had not pictured to them so uncomfortable
a workshop as this. When they had returned to the light, the owner of the place took them through
the crushing-mill attached, showed them the stone or mulloch, as it was thrust into the jaws
of the devouring animal, and then brought them in triumph round to the place where the gold
was eliminated from the débris of mud and water. The gold did not seem to them to be very much;
but still there it was. 'Two ounces to the ton, my boys!' said Crinkett, as he brought them
back to his house. 'You'll find that a 10s. share'll give you about 6d. a month. That's about
60 per cent, I guess. You can have your money monthly. What comes out of that there mine in
a March, you can have in a April, and so on. There ain't nothing like it anywhere else,--not
as I knows on. And instead of working your hearts out, you can be just amusing yourselves about
the country. Don't go to Ahalala;--unless it is for dropping your money. If that's what you
want, I won't say but Ahalala is as good a place as you'll find in the colony.' Then he brought
a bottle of whisky out of a cupboard, and treated them to a glass of grog apiece. Beyond that
his hospitality did not go.

Dick looked as though he liked the idea of having a venture in the 'Old Stick-in-the-Mud.'
Caldigate, without actually disbelieving all that had been said to him, did not relish the
proposal. It was not the kind of thing which they had intended. After they had learned their
trade as miners it might be very well for them to have shares in some established concern;--but
in that case he would wish to be one of the managers himself, and not to trust everything to
any Crinkett, however honest. That suggestion of travelling about and amusing themselves, did
not commend itself to him. New South Wales might, he thought, be a good country for work, but
did not seem to offer much amusement beyond sheer idleness, and brandy-and-water.

'I rather think we should like to do a little in the rough first,' he said.

'A very little'll go a long way with you, I'm thinking.'

'I don't see that at all,' said Dick, stoutly.

'You go down there and take one of them picks in your hand for a week,--eight hours at a time,
with five minutes' spell allowed for a smoke, and see how you'll feel at the end of the week.'

'We'll try it on, if you'll give us 10s. a-day for the week,' said Caldigate, rubbing his hands
together.

'I wouldn't give you half-a-crown for the whole time between you, and you wouldn't earn it.
Ten shillings a day! I suppose you think a man has only just to say the word and become a miner
out of hand. You've a deal to learn before you'll be worth half the money. I never knew chaps
like you come to any good at working. If you've got a little money, you know, I've shown you
what you can do with it. But perhaps you haven't.'

The conversation was ended by a declaration on the part of Caldigate that they would take a
week to think over Mr. Crinkett's kind proposition, and that they might as well occupy the
time by taking a look at Ahalala. A place that had been so much praised and so much abused
must be worth seeing. 'Who's been a-praising it,' asked Crinkett, angrily, 'unless it's that
fool Jones? And as for waiting, I don't say that you'll have the shares at that price next
week.' In this way he waxed angry; but, nevertheless, he condescended to recommend a man to
them, when Caldigate declared that they would like to hire some practical miner to accompany
them. 'There's Mick Maggott,' said he, 'knows mining a'most as well as anybody. You'll hear
of him, may be, up at Henniker's. He's honest; and if you can keep him off the drink he'll
do as well as anybody. But neither Mick nor nobody else can do you no good at Ahalala.' With
that he led them out of the gate, and nodding his head at them by way of farewell, left them
to go back to Mrs. Henniker's.

To Mrs. Henniker's they went, and there, stretched out at length on the wooden veranda before
the house, they found the hero of the potatoes,--the man who had taken them down to Crinkett's
house. He seemed to be fast asleep, but as they came up on the boards, he turned himself on
his elbow, and looked at them. 'Well, mates,' he said, 'what do you think of Tom Crinkett now
you've seen him?'

'He doesn't seem to approve of Ahalala,' said Dick.

'In course he don't. When a new rush is opened like that, and takes away half the hands a man
has about him, and raises the wages of them who remain, in course he don't like it. You see
the difference. The Old Stick-in-the-Mud is an established kind of thing.'

'It's a paying concern, I suppose,' said Caldigate.

'It has paid;--not a doubt about it. Whether it's played out or not, I'm not so sure. But Ahalala
is a working-man's diggings, not a master's, such as Crinkett is now. Of course Crinkett has
a down on Ahalala.'

'Your friend Jack Brien didn't seem to think much of the place,' said Dick.

'Poor Jack is one of them who never has a stroke of luck. He's a sort of chum who, when he
has a bottle of pickles, somebody else is sure to eat 'em. Ahalala isn't so bad. It's one of
them chancy places, of course. You may and you mayn't, as I was a-saying before. When the great
rush was on, I did uncommon well at Ahalala. I never was the man I was then.'

'What became of it?' asked Caldigate with a smile.

'Mother Henniker can tell you that, or any other publican round the country. It never will
stick to me. I don't know why, but it never will. I've had my luck, too. Oh, laws! I might
have had my house, just as grand as Polly Hooker this moment, only I never could stick to it
like Tom Crinkett. I've drank cham--paign out of buckets;--I have.'

'I'd rather have a pot of beer out of the pewter,' said Caldigate.

'Very like. One doesn't drink cham--paign because it's better nor anything else. A nobbler
of brandy's worth ten of it. It's the glory of out-facing the swells at their own game. There
was a chap over in the other colony shod his horse with gold,--and he had to go shepherding
afterwards for thirty pounds a-year and his grub. But it's something for him to have ridden
a horse with gold shoes. You've never seen a bucketful of cham--paign in the old country?'

When both Dick and Caldigate had owned that they had never encountered luxury so superabundant,
and had discussed the matter in various shapes,--asking whether the bucket had been emptied,
and other questions of the same nature,--Caldigate inquired of his friend whether he knew Mick
Maggott?

'Mick Maggott!' said the man, jumping up to his feet. 'Who wants Mick Maggott?' Then Caldigate
explained the recommendation which Mr. Crinkett had made. 'Well;--I'm darned;--Mick Maggott?
I'm Mick Maggott, myself.'

Before the evening was over an arrangement had been made between the parties, and had even
been written on paper and signed by all the three. Mick on the morrow was to proceed to Ahalala
with his new comrades, and was to remain with them for a month, assisting them in all their
views; and for this he was to receive ten shillings a-day. But, in the event of his getting
drunk, he was to be liable to dismissal at once. Mick pleaded hard for one bout of drinking
during the month;--but when Dick explained that one bout might last for the entire time, he
acknowledged that the objection was reasonable and assented to the terms proposed.

Chapter XI

Ahalala

It was all settled that night, and some necessary purchases made. Ahalala was twenty-three
miles from Nobble, and a coach had been established through the bush for the benefit of miners
going to the diggings;--but Mick was of opinion that miners ought to walk, with their swag
on their backs, when the distance was not more than forty miles. 'You look so foolish getting
out of one of them rattletrap coaches,' he said, 'and everybody axing whether you're going
to pick for yourself or buy a share in a claim. I'm all for walking,--if it ain't beneath you.'
They declared themselves quite ready to walk, and under Mick's guidance they went out and bought
two large red blankets and two pannikins. Unfortunately, in the individual countries, public Feedback
not yet demobilized. The remains of war propaganda is still circulate and pollute the atmosphere.
Anyone who entrusted his resources and his work a country has therefore to be expected with the
threat that this country before long by higher ratios Violence that are not natural events, but
events in political risk and can be changed. Above all, the knowledge is not certain that a
debtor, especially if he is destitute, the conservation needs, and that he is unable to pay,
if deprive him of the powers of its possibilities, including his credit. That this actually
The imponderables are the once so great exchange of production and Konsumptionsverkehrs inhibit,
it is clear from the fact that the means of production in the world almost completely are obtained. Even
if all deeply regrettable destruction of war and especially the war takes into account, we
may assume that the entire production and Transport apparatus itself more than 90 percent are
obtained. The huge and deeply deplorable Destruction within the Russian Empire reach into
the world trade is only about 3 percent.

Despite the large losses of the war, but people are the human forces of production almost intact,
because they have to a large extent completed. Thus, if the money machine does not work, although both their
substance as their drivers almost complete , if party on the one hand millions of hands, on
the other hand, millions of people are starving, when pile up on the one hand, countless amounts
of unsaleable goods to is on the other side of the same goods of the worst shortages, it is because,
that mutual debt acts as a psychological factor. As a further psychological Moments are the lack
of a state of peace and lack of trust in the world determining.

If we now ask whether there really is no way the powers of the slack World exchange to revive,
the machinery of the world in production of new movement set, the result is the fourth of the
unspoken assumptions, namely that not any one or two buyers, but by the interaction of all the
economic and World problems new movement can be fed.

How should the world be healed without parallel even after a work of destruction, if not all countries
of the world decide to jointly bring relief. By a universal victim of the world and the suffering
humanity can only heal a suffering world be. Never is a different reconstruction succeeded by violent
than expenses of new Medium. Such agents will not be applied as long as every member of the
global economy With few exceptions, is in debt. The first victim is thus in the general degradation
circle of debt to be sought. The other victim is the collective application large new funds
for reconstruction, whether by way of general and mutual Credit, be it in other ways, too far would
lead the discussion. The fact that the Genoese led conference to discuss these issues is a fact
in history Europe will never be forgotten.

Another historical outcome of the conference saw the German delegation
in the approach the large schwerbedrängten Russian people to the group
of leading nations.

By some Debates, Germany has sought to shift the mutual points of view contribute. Germany hopes that
by continuing to discuss the mutual to promote work of peace between East and West.

For the protection granted by Italy the work of the general peace, which owes World of this
generous nation and its leaders, the deepest gratitude.

History of Italy is older than most European nations. are on this floor more than once great
world movements emerged. But time and hopefully not in vain, the peoples the earth, eyes and
hearts brought to Italy in the deep feeling of the Petrarca gave immortal expression: Io vò
gridando Pace, pace, pace! He added his comments began by describing the situation in which
our people in the days of the ultimatums last year was. We all remember the harshness of the
words spoken at that time were the unteachable economic superstition, who spoke these words. We
all We have then asked how it is possible to require a referendum that 132 billion as war compensation
devotes more than half of all his assets, a payment service in gold, which does not own this
country? Is it possible that ever reason in the world comes and the folly of these ideas destroyed?
How long will it be years or Decades pass until the moment when the earth sees that it is impossible
that to meet claims, even if Germany still so willingly in the history of the Convention added, stating
that the loser pays. Only gradually was the reason to take their way; no way is so long as the
path of reason and the path of truth. This way one year - Because a year it took until the
world was faced with a changing understanding - that Away a year, you leave us in short sections
in a rush go through again. The first superstitious idea at the time of signing that wretched ultimatum
the thought of the former opponent was: Payments can be in any amount from one country to Gold can
be made that produces no gold, and has the no gold. It required the work of months, which is paced
by negotiation to negotiation - the name of the city of Wiesbaden is associated with these negotiations,
- to realize that if significant benefits Circumference of a country should be brought to
another, not gold, the cash may, but only the good, the goods. The didactic nature of these negotiations
was important. Even today, the contracts were signed at that time are not ratified. To date
they have not had an effect on the economic front, but their effect on the field of economic insight
was of great value. A people can, if need be, for another, work for a continent, but it can not
with the alchemical magic formula the philosopher's stone to create gold from nothing.

The recognition continued. In the fall, when I resigned from the ministry of reconstruction
was, I used the time of the freedom to go to England to explore about the mood and, as far as the
individual is possible to feed this feeling cloudy, the desirable appeared. At that time in
England was a perception in the dawn, the progress of economic Knowledge meant. They had understood
that when a country in excess under duress, under difficult conditions performs work for a continent,
a work that can hardly be too hard could be described with an expression
of prison labor, that fact alone this nation is damaged, but with
it the community of peoples of the world economy.

This Knowledge arose in the one country that was first and most affected by the damage, namely,
in England. It was observed that the disruption of markets, the one country most seriously had damage
that was needed as a merchant, a craftsman, as a manufacturer of these markets to to make its contribution
to the economy of the world. This led to the realization that not one country would be able to cure the
illness of a beaten continent, but that was an economic interconnectedness, an indissoluble unity,
and that each term, which is down from this unit, be it Russia as a consumer, be it Germany as
a producer, that any damages the missing link the world community. When the leaders of the British
policy attached to the idea of ​​an economic summon World Conference.

The decision on the appeal was for the Supreme Council of the Allies. He assembled in Cannes,
and there it was the first time the German agents possible, our overall assessment to develop
before the Areopagus of the world. In Cannes, it was clear that the German problem the European
economy dominated, and beside this German problem in distant Forward-looking stepped out the
Russian problem. No sooner had we finally decided that Business conference call, then broke
off the conference at Cannes, because a change of government had taken place in France, the government
was the government Poincaré Briand replaced. For months, they doubted whether it would succeed
the opposition encountered, the idea transform the world conference
or destroy beyond recognition.

Finally, they came existence, but under hardships. Because it talks had taken place in Boulogne,
and in these meetings from England was the French request was granted, that the conference that was
convened to heal the suffering of the continent, this conference about one not allowed to speak:
namely on the nature and cause of this suffering. It was not allowed to talk about the nuclear
issue, the German question, the question of reparations. The Lord Chancellor has given you: strassauf,
strassab in Genoa but was all filled with this question. And so it happened that, in addition to the
unresolved question of Russia, on the one Expert conference had to be reserved, but a number
of findings are cleared, which could be certainly discussed in the Commission meetings only hint.
But there was a final session, and in this it was not the German delegates denied will provide
the core problems to light and to ask the nations: yes or no. As far as a conference, a crowded
room, a theater world, an answer to such questions will may, it was given. For example, is our
question: Can a healthy continent if each nation the other is deep in debt? Can a nation stir
when they simultaneously overloaded creditor and debtor is hopeless? Can a chain of creditors
and Debtors lead an economic existence, if at one end of the chain is a great empire, America
is, it owes no one, and at the other end of our poor country that no one claiming something has?
The answer is: such a circle of the world must cut debt be. And in this circle of the world, the
German reparations debt is only a Special case of the debt of people to people. Furthermore,
it could not be denied that the debtor is to pay, payment must not be made impossible. Since payment
can only be delivered in goods, is that politics is absurd that the product of Debtor country closes
the entrance to the creditor country, it makes no sense at the same time the wall of the anti-dumping,
the prohibitive increase, and to require the same time, that the goods are to be paid to flood
these dams. These findings appeared in Genoa: that a reconstruction of the world when he was
seriously envisages, if the term not to melt away a commonplace that such a reconstruction is possible
only through Victims. That it is not possible by the sacrifice of one or the other people,
but that all nations must contribute. Like all peoples through this terrible War have gone into
debt, then all the nations of the earth together to make sacrifices, to mitigate the consequences
of this war. Therefore it was necessary to speak: not a single People can heal Europe, but the
people must meet and jointly contribute, they must not be content to make the world Abbürdung
this debt, they must ensure that new resources are procured. For each structure to include
resources. One can not build from the air and clouds. Those who build, need materials and these
materials must be in Values ​​obtain. Values ​​present but voluntary, means sacrifice.

In addition to these economic problems, the atmosphere was filled with the problems of Genoa
Russia. The reconnection of the East and West is one of the major tasks of the future European
policy. It is necessary that a continent such as Russia, a country of such size, number of such people,
such undiscovered treasures will be re-opened. It is necessary that it is the economic complex
of the West is again attached. The powers of the Entente This is not so far succeeded. The
work is moved to the Hague, and we are in the Hague not participate. We are not pushing to take
part in a work, the other for afford and in a different kind on our part, we have followed
their own path, the path of pure, free, forgiving peace. We have followed this path for the purpose
of the construction a new future with a country which has also suffered severe setbacks, such
as us. With or without their own fault, I leave undecided. With such a country can not settle,
as with a bad debtor. We can and should cooperate with him in the moment when his need is greatest.
It has made us the charge that we had Rapallo completed in the incorrect time. Yes, certainly,
if not to find fault in a fact , so at least remains the criticism
in itself good, but it did not on Monday, but it would have on Tuesday
or Wednesday to be.

We had to contract with them at the moment where we recognized that the Western powers did
not meet our legitimate needs, where other hand, the contractual provisions attached to us and the
other, the desire of the Counterparty to an understanding has been alive. We do not expect gratitude
in politics with. Former policy, which has often founded on gratitude, was always disappointed.
But reckon with realities and facts of the past is not an error, and it is a reality when a connection
is taken out by people who shake hands, to live in peace and friendship.

In the Hague, we will not be involved. Because we have regulated our relations with the East.
We will follow the work of the other with sincere goodwill. We are the activity we have already practiced
in Genoa, continue to exercise the activities of the agency, but only if it is desired. Because
we insist on no one. In Genoa we wished to and we have followed this request. If it is not desired
in the Hague, so we stay away. We heartily wish that the states return home with good results
from the Hague. We envy no one to connect. We do not want monopolies, no exclusive rights. We
want nothing more as the link between East and West will be restored. We want the connection is
made so that we will serve the eastern people the hand. If I speak of this rich hand, I am not
sure that we are a circle of thought prescribe that is not ours. Russia lives under an economic system
that differs from ours. We did not criticize this economic system. Maybe Russia will gradually
reshape it. We believe that there are now in full transformation is understood. We have not
closed our peace with a system, but with a People, and we have taken him by the people of this nation
at this moment represented. What troubled economy they operate, not us. We are, as far as we can,
and if they want to, economic assistance, with an economic initiative with experience and knowledge
of the country, with the organizational skills of the German Industry's, with the insights of the
German scholar.

We will not be closed to them, still impose, but we will be happy to let their own way. We sincerely
hope that they add up to an economic system that deals with the European economic system added. We
do not even take out an influence.

This is the stage from Genoa. The stage from the Hague is in the future. And now a word from
to that stage, which is happening at this moment: Stage Paris. The maturing insight of 1921,
we have overlooked. It is the insight that emerged among politicians. To are now beginning the
first business together in Paris, bankers from the European and American states, and discuss
things substantive in nature. These things are one side of the creditworthiness of our country,
on the other hand, the feasibility of contracts, on the third page of the possibility of accommodation
bonds. A voltage holds the world in suspense, what decision will be taken? I do not think that
this Decision is essential. Like it a large or small, or it may no his bond. No matter! The step that
this committee has done, can not undo be made. This step, however, is the largest in the economic
understanding of World for 1 ½ years, because it leads to the fact: That which set in London's
ultimatum , is impracticable, and so is the closed circle of knowledge. Thus, the Experiment
of this most difficult of all European issues, this most dangerous and tragic Experiment found
his intellectual conclusion. On the question of the ultimatum of 1921 is the response of the Commission
of 1922. The question is: 132 If billions of Germany available? and the answer is no. Whether
this response is sealed by the practical Means this or that measure, or that the bond does not seem to
me decisive. In few days we will know whether the practical result is followed by the result of knowledge.
The result of knowledge but is the key.

If we look over the course of this year, we remember how the big question the ultimatum always
clear and explicit grows up, the negative response, we may on the other hand, the criticism of our
country can not be ignored. It is not dealt mildly with our policy this year, the Lord Chancellor
can some of it To tell and each one of us. We are available to each criticism, which tells
us not that you have to do it, but different. But no one will help the statesman and the Land
use by a criticism which simply says differently you would have to do it, but as that remains our
secret. Often we have been told: Policy of resistance! The largest and most successful statesman of
Europe has given us an answer to our question where, as we told him: We have had to experience
this year that a terrible Inflation wave has swept over our country, we had to experience it,
that the middle class the worst suffering has to endure, we had to experience it, that the
foreign cash have increased to many times its value. It is at times we have come to doubt whether
Under these circumstances we should not have to say: resistance, taste it, what the cost. I want to
quote the words, we have heard, but most deeply is our conviction been sealed, that has been
the policy that we drove, the only one that allows has, during the worst year of the new peace
to maintain the unity of the empire. No other policy can be referred to us, which would have
allowed the same: the conservation of Unit and the stock. The aspirations that threatened us and threaten
relate not just to the lacerations of the country, they are also related to its further reduction,
after that country by the most unfortunate of all contracts for so much of its ground and
has lost its people. Our country to get their entirety, our country and people to receive as
a unit, is the goal that we fight.

When it is said, the smaller Evil against certain business risks is a replacement of Rhenish
country by foreign troops, we say: No, do not think we are. German land should not be given
away, the German unit should not be jeopardized. The Registrar has you said and I repeat it:
"Woe to us if we forget the past of our people, woe to us if we forget his great story and what
his great history, we posterity. This does not mean that we approve every single ones, over
the generations been done and is, but it means that we maintain the great legacy that the end
result of modern German history forms: the unification of Germany in his trunks. This unit live
up to her and we will have to serve us. Remember We do not know what by many individual and sometimes
forgotten by parties to believe the think we would have won the war. No, unfortunately not.
This war, the greatest of all Wars, we have lost. Let us not forget what that means, and do not
forget we from our great history, what does it mean if in the past wars lost were not a tenth as hard,
were so hard and dangerous, as this world war. Let us not have stood before the dangers we and the
dangers we stand. And even if written in a hundred years the history of this period is then
it will be asked with care: Where were the first threads in ties, how it was possible in a world
that was poisoned by hatred, on a planet in the sky flashed mutual Revenge, as was possible in
this world of destruction and discord, the first Threads to add? The answer will be: The German
people have joined them by his patience, by his energy through his positive will, by his idealism,
by his Sacrifice. This will be the verdict of history about this era that we live by. Like the
criticism of the day slander us, we believe from the deepest conviction that there is no another
way is, as the one we have followed to German unity in the future to save and stabilize for all
time. Besides that we have not been passive during throughout the duration of this year, we
have shown you. No doubt it is that when a Long live the people who live there can not merely
in a single property in the property as a debtor. It has to move again, it must gather new strength,
it must be its economy new starting offer, it must direct the mind to new problems.
 He knew that they were false. But the falseness was not of a nature
to cause him to be ashamed. It shames no man to swear that he loves a woman when he has ceased
to love her;--but it does shame him to drop off from the love which he has promised. He balanced
the matter in his mind for a while before he would send his letter. Then, getting up quickly,
he rushed forth, and dropped it into the post-office box.

The very next day chance brought to Ahalala one who had been a passenger on board the Goldfinder;
and the man, hearing of the success of Shand and Caldigate came to see them. 'Of course you
know,' said the man, 'what your fellow-passenger is doing down at Sydney?' Dick Shand, who
was present, replied that they had heard nothing of any fellow-passenger. Caldigate understood
at once to whom the allusion was made, and was silent. 'Look here,' said the man, bringing
a newspaper out of his pocket, and pointing to a special advertisement. 'Who do you think that
is?' The advertisement declared that Mademoiselle Cettini would, on such and such a night,
sing a certain number of songs, and dance a certain number of dances, and perform a certain
number of tableaux, at a certain theatre in Sydney. 'That's your Mrs. Smith,' said the man,
turning to Caldigate.

'I am very glad she has got employment,' said Caldigate; 'but she is not my Mrs. Smith.'

'We all thought that you and she were very thick.'

'All the same I beg you to understand that she is not my Mrs. Smith,' repeated Caldigate, endeavouring
to appear unconcerned, but hardly able to conceal his anger.

Dancing dances, singing songs, and acting tableaux;--and all under the name of Mademoiselle
Cettini! Nothing could be worse,--unless, indeed, it might be of service to him to know that
she was earning her bread, and therefore not in distress, and earning it after a fashion of
which he would be at liberty to express his disapproval. Nothing more was said at the time
about Mrs. Smith, and the man went his way.

Ten days afterwards Caldigate, in the presence both of Mick and Dick, declared his purpose
of going down to Sydney. 'Our luggage must be looked after,' said he;--'and I have a friend
whom I want to see,' he added, not choosing to lie. At this time all was going successfully
with them. Mick Maggott lived in such a manner that no one near him would have thought that
he knew what whisky meant. His self-respect had returned to him, and he was manifestly 'boss.'
There had come to be necessity for complicated woodwork below the surface, and he had shown
himself to be a skilled miner. And it had come to pass that our two friends were as well assured
of his honesty as of their own. He had been a veritable godsend to them,--and would remain
so, could he be kept away from the drinking-shops.

'If you go away don't you think he'll break out?' Dick asked when they were alone together.

'I hope not. He seems to have been steadied by success. At any rate I must go.'

'Is it to see--Mrs. Smith?' Dick as he asked the question put on his most serious face. He
did not utter the name as though he were finding fault. The time that had passed had been sufficient
to quench the unpleasantness of their difference on board ship. He was justified in asking
his friend such a question, and Caldigate felt that it was so.

'I am.'

'Don't you think, upon the whole,----. I don't like to interfere, but upon my word the thing
is so important.'

'You think I had better not see her?'

'I do.'

'And lie to her?'

'All is fair in love and war.'

'That means that no faith is due to a woman. I cannot live by such a doctrine. I do not mind
owning to you that I wish I could do as you bid me. I can't. I cannot be so false. I must go,
old fellow; but I know all that you would say to me, and I will endeavour to escape honestly
from this trouble.' And so he went.

Yes;--to escape honestly from that trouble! But how? It is just that trouble from which there
is no honest escape,--unless a man may honestly break his word. He had engaged himself to her
so much that, simply to ignore her would be cowardly as well as false. There was but one thing
that he could do, but one step that he could take, by which his security and his self-respect
might both be maintained. He would tell her the exact truth, and put it to her whether, looking
at their joint circumstances, it would not be better that they should--part. Reflecting on
this during his three days' journey down to Sydney, it was thus that he resolved,--forgetting
altogether in his meditations the renewed force of the woman's charms upon himself.

As he went from the railway station at Sydney to the third-class inn at which he located himself,
he saw the hoardings on all sides placarded with the name of Mademoiselle Cettini. And there
was a picture on some of these placards of a wonderful female, without much clothes, which
was supposed to represent some tragic figure in a tableau. There was the woman whom he was
to make his wife. He had travelled all night, and had intended to seek Mrs. Smith immediately
after his breakfast. But so unhappy was he, so much disgusted by the tragic figure in the picture,
that he postponed his visit and went after his luggage. His luggage was all right in the warehouse,
and he arranged that it should be sent down to Nobble. Waggons with stores did make their way
to Nobble from the nearest railway station, and hopes were held out that the packages might
be there in six weeks' time. He would have been willing to postpone their arrival for twelve
months, for twenty-four months, could he, as compensation have been enabled to postpone, with
honour, his visit to Mrs. Smith for the same time.

Soon after noon, however, his time was vacant, and he rushed to his fate. She had sent him
her address, and he found her living in very decent lodgings overlooking the public park. He
was at once shown up to her room, where he found her at breakfast. 'So you have come,' she
said. Then, when the door was shut, she flung herself into his arms.

He was dressed as a miner might be dressed who was off work and out for a holiday;--clean,
rough, and arranged with a studied intention to look as little like a gentleman as possible.
The main figure and manner were so completely those of a gentleman that the disguise was not
perfect; but yet he was rough. She was dressed with all the pretty care which a woman can use
when she expects her lover to see her in morning costume. Anything more unlike the Mrs. Smith
of the ship could not be imagined. If she had been attractive then, what was she now? If her
woman's charms sufficed to overcome his prudence while they were so clouded, what effect would
they have upon him now? And she was in his arms! Here there was no quartermaster to look after
the proprieties;--no Mrs. Crompton, no Mrs. Callander, no Miss Green to watch with a hundred
eyes for the exchange of a chance kiss in some moment of bliss. 'So you have come! Oh, my darling
oh, my love!' No doubt it was all just as it should be. If a lady may not call the man to whom
she is engaged her love and her darling, what proper use can there be for such words? And into
whose arms is she to jump, if not into his? As he pressed her to his heart, and pressed his
lips to hers, he told himself that he ought to have arranged it all by letter.

'Why Cettini?' he asked. But he smiled as he put the question. It was intended to be serious,
but still he could not be hard upon her all at once.

'Why fifty thousand fools?'

'I don't understand.'

'Supposing there to be fifty thousand people in Sydney,--as to which I know nothing. Or why
ever so many million fools in London? If I called myself Mrs. Smith nobody would come and see
me. If I called myself Madame Cettini, not nearly so many would come. You have got to inculcate
into the minds of the people an idea that a pure young girl is going to jump about for their
diversion. They know it isn't so. But there must be a flavour of the idea. It isn't nice, but
one has to live.'

'Were you ever Cettini before?'

'Yes,--when I was on the stage as a girl.' Then he thought he remembered that she had once
told him some particular in regard to her early life, which was incompatible with this, unless
indeed she had gone under more than one name before she was married. 'I used as a child to
dance and sing under that name.'

'Was it your father's name?'

She smiled as she answered, 'You want to discover all the little mean secrets of my life at
once, and do not reflect that, in so far as they were mean, they are disagreeable as subjects
of conversation. I was not mean myself.'

'I am sure of that.'

'If you are sure of it, is not that enough? Of course I have been among low people. If not,
why should I have been a singer on the stage at so early an age, why a dancer, why should I
have married such a one as Mr. Smith?'

'I do not know of what sort he was,' said Caldigate.

'This is not the time to ask, when you have just come to see me;--when I am so delighted to
see you! Oh, it is such a pleasure! I have not had a nice word spoken to me since I left the
Goldfinder. Come and take a walk in the gardens? Nobody knows me off the stage yet, and nobody
knows you. So we can do just as we like. Come and tell me about the gold.'

He did go, and did tell her about the gold, and before he had been with her an hour, sitting
about on the benches in that loveliest of all places, the public gardens at Sydney, he was
almost happy with her. It was now late in the autumn, in May; but the end of the autumn in
Sydney is the most charming time of the year. He spent the whole day with her, dining with
her in her lodgings at five in order that he might take her to the theatre at seven. She had
said a great deal to him about her performances, declaring that he would find them to be neither
vulgar nor disagreeable. She told him that she had no friend in Sydney, but that she had been
able to get an engagement for a fortnight at Melbourne, and had been very shortly afterwards
pressed to come on to Sydney. She listened not only with patience, but apparently with the
greatest pleasure, to all that he could tell her of Dick Shand, and Mr. Crinkett, and Mick
Maggott, arousing herself quite to enthusiasm when he came to the finding of the gold. But
there was not a word said the whole day as to their future combined prospects. Nor was there
any more outspoken allusion to loves and darlings, or any repetition of that throwing herself
into his arms. For once it was natural. If she were wanted thus again, the action must be his,--not
hers. She was clever enough to know that.

'What do you think of it?' she said, when he waited to take her home.

'It is the only good dancing I ever saw in my life. But----'

'Well!'

'I will tell you to-morrow.'

'Tell me whatever you think and you will see that I will attend to you. Come about eleven,--not
sooner, as I shall not be dressed. Now good-night.'

Chapter XIII

Coming Back

The letter which Caldigate wrote to his father from Ahalala, telling him of the discovery of
gold upon their claim, contained the first tidings which reached Folking of the wanderer, and
that was not received till seven or eight months had passed by since he left the place. The
old Squire, during that time, had lived a very solitary life. In regard to his nephew, whom
he had declared his purpose of partially adopting, he had expressed himself willing to pay
for his education, but had not proposed to receive him at Folking. And as to that matter of
heirship, he gave his brother to understand that it was not to be regarded as a settled thing.
Folking was now his own to do what he liked with it, and as such it was to remain. But he would
treat his nephew as a son while the nephew seemed to him to merit such treatment. As for the
estate, he was not at all sure whether it would not be better for the community at large, and
for the Caldigate family in particular, that it should be cut up and sold in small parcels.
There was a long correspondence between him and his brother, which was ended by his declaring
that he did not wish to see any of the family just at present at Folking. He was low in spirits,
and would prefer to be alone.

He was very low in spirits and completely alone. All those who knew anything about him,--and
they were very few, the tenants, perhaps, and servants, and old Mr. Bolton,--were of opinion
that he had torn his son out from all place in his heart, had so thoroughly disinherited the
sinner, not only from his house and acres, but from his love, that they did not believe him
capable of suffering from regret. But even they knew very little of the man. As he wandered
about alone among the dikes, as he sat alone among his books, even as he pored over the volumes
which were always in his hand, he was ever mourning and moaning over his desolation. His wife
and daughters had been taken from him by the hand of God;--but how had it come to pass that
he had also lost his son, that son who was all that was left to him? When he had first heard
of those dealings with Davis, while John was amusing himself with the frivolities of Babington,
he had been full of wrath, and had declared to himself that the young man must be expelled,
if not from all affection, yet from all esteem. And he had gone on to tell himself that it
would be unprofitable for him to live with a son whom he did not esteem. Then it had come to
pass that, arguing it out in his own mind, rationally, as he had thought, but still under the
impulse of hot anger, he had determined that it was better that they should part, even though
the parting should be for ever. But now he had almost forgotten Davis,--had turned the matter
over in his mind till he had taught himself to think that the disruption had been altogether
his son's work, and in no degree his own. His son had not loved him. He had not been able to
inspire his son with love. He was solitary and wretched because he had been harsh and unforgiving.
That was his own judgment as to himself. But he never said a word of his feelings to any human
being.

John had promised to write. The promise had not been very enthusiastically given; but still,
as the months went by it was constantly remembered. The young man, after leaving Cambridgeshire,
had remained some weeks at the Shands' house before he had started;--and from thence he had
not written. The request had been that he should write from Australia, and the correspondence
between him and his father had always been so slight, that it had not occurred to him to write
from Pollington. But Mr. Caldigate had,--not expected, but hoped that a letter might come at
the last moment. He knew to a day, to an hour, when the vessel would sail from Plymouth. There
might have been a letter from Plymouth, but no letter came. And then the months went by slowly.
The son did not write from Melbourne, nor from Nobble,--nor from Ahalala till gold had been
found. So it came to pass that nearly eight months had passed, and that the father had told
himself again and again that his son had torn himself altogether away from all remembrance
of his home, before the letter came.

It was not a long letter, but it was very satisfactory The finding of the gold was in itself,
of course, a great thing; but the manner in which it was told, without triumph or exultation,
but with an air of sober, industrious determination, was much more; and then there was a word
or two at the end: 'Dear father,--I think of you every day, and am already looking forward
to the time when I may return and see you again.' As he read it, the tears rolled down his
cheeks, and unluckily the old housekeeper came into the room at the same time.

'Is it from Mr. John, sir?'

He had to recover himself, and to get rid of his tears, and to answer the old woman in an unconcerned
tone, all in a moment, and it disconcerted him.

'Yes,--yes;' he said. 'I'll tell you all about it another time.'

'Is he well, sir?'

'I daresay he is. He doesn't say. It's about business. Didn't you hear me say that I'd tell
you another time?' And so the old woman was turned out of the room, having seen the tear and
heard the little gurgle in the throat.

'He seems to be doing well,' the Squire said to Mr. Holt. 'He has got a couple of partners,
and they have succeeded in finding gold. He may probably come back some day; but I don't suppose
it will be for the next twenty years.'

After that he marked the posts, which he knew came from that part of the world by San Francisco,
and had resolved not to expect anything by that of the next month,--when there came, a day
before its time, a much longer letter than the last. In this there was given a detailed description
of the 'claim' at Ahalala, which had already been named Folking. Much was said of Mick, and
much was said of Dick, both of whom were working 'as steady as rocks.' The number of ounces
extracted were stated, with the amount of profits which had been divided. And something was
said as to the nature of their life at Ahalala. They were still living under their original
tent, but were meditating the erection of a wooden shanty. Ahalala, the writer said, was not
a place at which a prosperous miner could expect to locate himself for many years; but the
prospects were good enough to justify some present attention to personal comforts. All this
was rational, pleasant, and straightforward. And in the letter there was no tone or touch of
the old quarrel. It was full and cordial,--such as any son might write to any father. It need
hardly be said that there was no mention made in it of Mrs. Smith. It was written after the
return of John Caldigate from Sydney to Ahalala, but contained no reference to any matrimonial
projects.

Letters then came regularly, month by month, and were always regularly answered,--till a chance
reader would have thought that no father and no son stood on better terms with each other.
There had been misfortunes; but the misfortunes did not seem to touch John Caldigate himself.
After three months of hard work and steady conduct Mick Maggott had broken out and had again
taken to drinking champagne out of buckets. Efforts were made, with infinite trouble, to reclaim
him, which would be successful for a time,--and then again he would slip away into the mud.
And then Shand would sometimes go into the mud with him; and Shand, when drunk, would be more
unmanageable even than Mick. And this went on till Mick had--killed himself, and Dick Shand
had disappeared. 'I grieve for the man as for a dear friend,' he said in one of his father's
letters; 'for he has been as true to me as steel in all things, save drink; and I feel that
I have learned under him the practical work of a gold-miner as it cannot be learned except
by the unwearied attention of the teacher. Could he have kept from spirits, this man would
have made a large fortune and would have deserved it; for he was indefatigable and never-ending
in resources.' Such was the history of poor Mick Maggott.

And Shand's history was told also. Shand strayed away to Queensland, and then returning was
again admitted to a certain degree of partnership, and then again fell into drink, and at last,
deserting the trade of a miner, tried his hand at various kinds of work, till at last he became
a simple shepherd. From time to time Caldigate sent him money when he was in want of it, but
they had not again come together as associates in their work.

All this was told in his monthly letters which came to be expected at Folking, till each letter
was regarded as the rising of a new sun. There is a style of letter-writing which seems to
indicate strength of purpose and a general healthy condition on the part of the writer. In
all his letters, the son spoke of himself and his doings with confidence and serenity, somewhat
surprising his father after a while by always desiring to be remembered to Mr., Mrs., and Miss
Bolton. This went on not only from month to month, but from year to year, till at the end of
three years from the date at which the son had left Folking, there had come to be a complete
confidence between him and his father. John Caldigate had gone into partnership with Crinkett,--who
had indeed tried to cheat him wretchedly but had failed,--and at that time was the manager
of the Polyeuka mine. The claim at Ahalala had been sold, and he had deserted the flashy insecurity
of alluvial searchings for the fundamental security of rock-gold. He was deep in the crushing
of quartz, and understood well the meaning of two ounces to the ton,--that glittering boast
by which Crinkett had at first thought to allure him. From time to time he sent money home,
paying back to his father and to Bolton's bank what had been borrowed on the estate. For there
had passed between them many communications respecting Folking. The extravagances of the son
became almost the delight of the father, when the father had become certain of the son's reform.
There had been even jocular reference to Davis, and a complete understanding as to the amount
of money to be given to the nephew in compensation for the blighted hopes as to the reversion
of the property.

Why it should have been that these years of absence should have endeared to John Caldigate
a place which, while it was his home, had always been distasteful to him, I cannot perhaps
explain to those readers who have never strayed far from their original nests;--and to those
who have been wanderers I certainly need not explain it. As soon as he felt that he could base
the expression of his desires as to Folking on the foundation of substantial remittances, he
was not slow to say that he should like to keep the place. He knew that he had no right to
the reversion, but perhaps his father would sympathise with his desire to buy back his right.
His father, with all his political tenets as to land, with his often-expressed admiration as
to the French system, with his loud denunciations of the absurdity of binding a special family
to a special fraction of the earth's surface, did sympathise with him so strongly, that he
at once accepted the arrangement. 'I think that his conduct has given him a right to demand
it,' he said to Mr. Bolton.

'I don't quite see that. Money certainly gives a man great powers. If he has money enough he
can buy the succession to Folking if you choose to sell it to him.'

'I mean as my son,' said the father somewhat proudly. 'He was the heir.'

'But he ceased to be so,--by his own doing. I advised you to think longer over it before you
allowed him to dispossess himself.'

'It certainly has been all for the best.'

'I hope so. But when you talk of his right, I am bound to say that he has none. Folking is
now yours, without encumbrance, and you can give it to whom you please.'

'It was he who paid off the mortgage.'

'You have told me that he sent you part of the money;--but that's between you and him. I am
very glad, Caldigate, that your son has done so well;--and the more so perhaps because the
early promise was not good. But it may be doubted whether a successful gold-digger will settle
down quietly as an English country gentleman.'

There can be no doubt that old Mr. Bolton was a little jealous, and, perhaps, in some degree
incredulous, as to the success of John Caldigate. His sons had worked hard from the very beginning
of their lives. With them there had been no period of Newmarket, Davis, and disreputation.
On the basis of capital, combined with conduct, they had gradually risen to high success. But
here was a young man, who, having by his self-indulgence thrown away all the prospects of his
youth, had rehabilitated himself by the luck of finding gold in a gully. To Mr. Bolton it was
no better than had he found a box of treasure at the bottom of a well. Mr. Bolton had himself
been a seeker of money all his life, but he had his prejudices as to the way in which money
was to be sought. It should be done in a gradual, industrious manner, and in accordance with
recognised forms. A digger who might by chance find a lump of gold as big as his head, or might
work for three months without finding any, was to him only one degree better than Davis, and
therefore he did not receive his old friend's statements as to the young man's success with
all the encouragement which his old friend would have liked.

But his father was very enthusiastic in his return letter to the miner. The matter as to the
estate had been arranged. The nephew, who, after all, had not shown himself to be very praiseworthy,
had already been--compensated. His own will had already been made,--of course in his son's
favour. As there had been so much success,--and as continued success must always be doubtful,--would
it not be well that he should come back as soon as possible? There would be enough now for
them all. Then he expressed an opinion that such a place as Nobble could not be very nice for
a permanent residence.

Nobble was not very nice. Over and beside his professional success, there was not much in his
present life which endeared itself to John Caldigate. But the acquisition of gold is a difficult
thing to leave. There is a curse about it, or a blessing,--it is hard to decide which,--that
makes it almost impossible for a man to tear himself away from its pursuit when it is coming
in freely. And the absolute gold,--not the money, not the balance at one's banker's, not the
plentiful so much per annum,--but the absolute metal clinging about the palm of one's hands
like small gravel, or welded together in a lump too heavy to be lifted, has a peculiar charm
of its own. I have heard of a man who, having his pocket full of diamonds, declared, as he
let them run through his fingers, that human bliss could not go beyond that sensation. John
Caldigate did not shoe his horse with gold; but he liked to feel that he had enough gold by
him to shoe a whole team. He could not return home quite as yet. His affairs were too complicated
to be left quite at a moment's notice. If, as he hoped, he should find himself able to leave
the colony within four years of the day on which he had begun work, and could then do so with
an adequate fortune, he believed that he should have done better than any other Englishman
who had set himself to the task of gold-finding. In none of his letters did he say anything
special about Hester Bolton; but his inquiries about the family generally were so frequent
as to make his father wonder why such questions should be asked. The squire himself, who was
living hardly a dozen miles from Mr. Bolton's house, did not see the old banker above once
a quarter perhaps and the ladies of the family certainly not oftener than once a year. Very
little was said in answer to any of John's inquiries. 'Mr. and Mrs. and Miss Bolton are, I
believe, quite well.' So much was declared in one of the old squire's letters; and even that
little served to make known that at any rate, so far, no tidings as to marriage on the part
of Hester had reached the ear of her father's old friend. Perhaps this was all that John Caldigate
wanted to learn.

At last there came word that John intended to come home with the next month's mail. This letter
arrived about midsummer, when the miner had been absent three years and a half. He had not
settled all his affairs so completely but that it might be necessary that he should return;
but he thought that he would be able to remain at least twelve months in England. And in England
he intended to make his home. Gold, he said, was certainly very attractive; but he did not
like New South Wales as a country in which to live. He had now contracted his ventures to the
one enterprise of the Polyeuka mine, from which he was receiving large monthly dividends. If
that went on prosperously, perhaps he need not return to the colony at all. 'Poor Dick Shand!'
he said. 'He is a shepherd far away in the west, hardly earning better wages than an English
ploughman, and I am coming home with a pocket full of money! A few glasses of whisky have made
all the difference!'

The squire when he received this felt more of exultation than he had ever known in his life.
It seemed as though something of those throbbings of delight which are common to most of us
when we are young, had come to him for the first time in his old age. He could not bring himself
to care in the least for Dick Shand. At last,--at last,--he was going to have near him a companion
that he could love.

'Well, yes; I suppose he has put together a little money,' he said to Farmer Holt, when that
worthy tenant asked enthusiastically as to the truth of the rumours which were spread about
as to the young squire's success. 'I rather think he'll settle down and live in the old place
after all.'

'That's what he ought to do, squoire--that's what he ought to do,' said Mr. Holt, almost choked
by the energy of his own utterances.

Chapter XIV

Again at Home

On his arrival in England John Caldigate went instantly down to Folking. He had come back quite
fortified in his resolution of making Hester Bolton his wife, if he should find Hester Bolton
willing and if she should have grown at all into that form and manner, into those ways of look,
of speech, and of gait, which he had pictured to himself when thinking of her. Away at Nobble
the females by whom he had been surrounded had not been attractive to him. In all our colonies
the women are beautiful and in the large towns a society is soon created, of which the fastidious
traveller has very little ground to complain; but in the small distant bush-towns, as they
are called, the rougher elements must predominate Our hero, though he had worn moleskin trousers
and jersey shirts, and had worked down a pit twelve hours a-day with a pickaxe, had never reconciled
himself to female roughnesses. He had condescended to do so occasionally,--telling himself
that it was his destiny to pass his life among such surroundings; but his imagination had ever
been at work with him, and he possessed a certain aptitude for romance which told him continually
that Hester Bolton was the dream of his life, and ought to become, if possible, the reality;
and now he came back resolved to attempt the reality,--unless he should find that the Hester
Bolton of Chesterton was altogether different from the Hester Bolton of his dreams.

The fatted calf was killed for him in a very simple but full-hearted way. There was no other
guest to witness the meeting. 'And here you are,' said the father.

'Yes, sir, here I am;--all that's left of me.'

'There is quite plenty,' said the father, looking at the large proportions of his son. 'It
seems but a day or two since you went;--and yet they have been long days. I hardly expected
to see you again, John,--certainly not so soon as this; certainly not in such circumstances.
If ever a man was welcome to a house, you are welcome to this. And now,--what do you mean to
do with yourself?'

'By nine o'clock to-morrow morning you will probably find a pit opened on the lawn, and I shall
be down to the middle, looking for gold. Ah, sir, I wish you could have known poor Mick Maggott.'

'If he would have made holes in my lawn I am glad he did not come home with you.' This was
the first conversation, but both the father and son felt that there was a tone about it which
had never before been heard between them.

John Caldigate at this time was so altered in appearance, that they who had not known him well
might possibly have mistaken him. He was now nearly thirty, but looked older than his age.
The squareness of his brow was squarer, and here and there through his dark brown hair there
was to be seen an early tinge of coming grey; and about his mouth was all the decision of purpose
which comes to a man when he is called upon to act quickly on his own judgment in matters of
importance; and there was that look of self-confidence which success gives. He had thriven
in all that he had undertaken. In that gold-finding business of his he had made no mistakes.
Men who had been at it when a boy had tried to cheat him, but had failed. He had seen into
such mysteries as the business possessed with quick glances, and had soon learned to know his
way. And he had neither gambled nor drank,--which are the two rocks on which gold-miners are
apt to wreck their vessels. All this gave him an air of power and self-assertion which might,
perhaps, have been distasteful to an indifferent acquaintance, but which at this first meeting
was very pleasing to the father. His son was somebody,--had done something, that son of whom
he had been so thoroughly ashamed when the dealings with Davis had first been brought to light.
He had kept up his reading too; had strong opinions of his own respecting politics; regarded
the colonies generally from a politico-economical point of view; had ideas on social, religious,
and literary subjects sufficiently alike to his father's not to be made disagreeable by the
obstinacy with which he maintained them. He had become much darker in colour, having been,
as it seemed, bronzed through and through by colonial suns and colonial labour. Altogether
he was a son of whom any father might be proud, as long as the father managed not to quarrel
with him. Mr. Caldigate, who during the last four years had thought very much on the subject,
was determined not to quarrel with his son.

'You asked, sir, the other day what I meant to do?'

'What are we to find to amuse you?'

'As for amusement, I could kill rats as I used to do; or slaughter a hecatomb of pheasants
at Babington,'--here the old man winced, though the word hecatomb reconciled him a little to
the disagreeable allusion. 'But it has come to me now that I want so much more than amusement.
What do you say to a farm?'

'On the estate?'--and the landlord at once began to think whether there was any tenant who
could be induced to go without injustice.

'About three times as big as the estate if I could find it. A man can farm five thousand acres
as well as fifty, I take it, if he have the capital. I should like to cut a broad sward, or,
better still, to roam among many herds. I suppose a man should have ten pounds an acre to begin
with. The difficulty would be in getting the land.' But all this was said half in joke; for
he was still of opinion that he would, after his year's holiday, be forced to return for a
time to New South Wales. He had fixed a price for which, up to a certain date, he would sell
his interest in the Polyeuka mine. But the price was high, and he doubted whether he would
get it; and, if not, then he must return.

He had not been long at Folking,--not as yet long enough to have made his way into the house
at Chesterton,--before annoyance arose. Mrs. Shand was most anxious that he should go to Pollington
and 'tell them anything about poor Dick.' They did, in truth, know everything about poor Dick;
that poor Dick's money was all gone, and that poor Dick was earning his bread, or rather his
damper, mutton, and tea, wretchedly, in the wilderness of a sheep-run in Queensland. The mother's
letter was not very piteous, did not contain much of complaint,--alluded to poor Dick as one
whose poverty was almost natural, but still it was very pressing. The girls were so anxious
to hear all the details,--particularly Maria! The details of the life of a drunken sot are
not pleasant tidings to be poured into a mother's ear, or a sister's. And then, as they two
had gone away equal, and as he, John Caldigate, had returned rich, whereas poor Dick was a
wretched menial creature, he felt that his very presence in England would carry with it some
reproach against himself. He had in truth been both loyal and generous to Dick; but still,--there
was the truth. He had come back as a rich man to his own country, while Dick was a miserable
Queensland shepherd. It was very well for him to tell his father that a few glasses of whisky
had made the difference; but it would be difficult to explain this to the large circle at Pollington,
and very disagreeable even to him to allude to it. And he did not feel disposed to discuss
the subject with Maria, with that closer confidence of which full sympathy is capable. And
yet he did not know how to refuse to pay the visit. He wrote a line to say that as soon as
he was at liberty he would run up to Pollington, but that at present business incidental to
his return made such a journey impossible.

But the letter, or letters, which he received from Babington were more difficult to answer
even than the Shand despatch. There were three of them,--from his uncle, from Aunt Polly, and
from--not Julia--but Julia's second sister; whereby it was signified that Julia's heart was
much too heavily laden to allow her to write a simple, cousinly note. The Babington girls were
still Babington girls,--would still romp, row boats, and play cricket; but their condition
was becoming a care to their parents. Here was this cousin come back, unmarried, with gold
at command,--not only once again his father's heir, but with means at command which were not
at all diminished by the Babington imagination. After all that had passed in the linen-closet,
what escape would there be for him? That he should come to Babington would be a matter of course.
The real kindness which had been shown to him there as a child would make it impossible that
he should refuse.

Caldigate did feel it to be impossible to refuse. Though Aunt Polly had on that last occasion
been somewhat hard upon him, had laid snares for him, and endeavoured to catch him as a fowler
catches a bird, still there had been the fact that she had been as a mother to him when he
had no other mother. His uncle, too, had supplied him with hunting and shooting and fishing,
when hunting and shooting and fishing were the great joys of his life. It was incumbent on
him to go to Babington,--- probably would be incumbent on him to pay a prolonged visit there.
But he certainly would not marry Julia. As to that his mind was so fixed that even though he
should have to declare his purpose with some rudeness, still he would declare it. 'My aunt
wants me to go over to Babington,' he said to his father.

'Of course she does.'

'And I must go?'

'You know best what your own feelings are as to that. After you went, they made all manner
of absurd accusations against me. But I don't wish to force a quarrel upon you on that account.'

'I should be sorry to quarrel with them, because they were kind to me when I was a boy. They
are not very wise.'

'I don't think I ever knew such a houseful of fools.' There was no relationship by blood between
the Squire of Folking and the Squire of Babington; but they had married two sisters, and therefore
Mrs. Babington was Aunt Polly to John Caldigate.

'But fools may be very worthy, sir. I should say that a great many people are fools to you.'

'Not to me especially,' said the squire, almost angrily.

'People who read no books are always fools to those who do read.'

'I deny it. Our neighbour over the water'--the middle wash was always called the water at Folking--'never
looks at a book, as far as I know, and he is not a fool. He thoroughly understands his own
business But your uncle Babington doesn't know how to manage his own property,--and yet he
knows nothing else. That's what I call being a fool.'

'Now, I'm going to tell you a secret, sir.'

'A secret!'

'You must promise to keep it.'

'Of course I will keep it, if it ought to be kept.'

'They want me to marry Julia.'

'What!'

'My cousin Julia. It's an old affair. Perhaps it was not Davis only that made me run away five
years ago.'

'Do you mean they asked you;--or did you ask her?'

'Well; I did not ask her. I do not know that I can be more explicit. 

The path of truth is long. He is even longer than a lack of European interest those questions
we are life issues solved, the verdict of history as spoken view has become accustomed to.
A verdict can only be spoken by a full-fledged Tribunal. Our Search for Truth and Advertising, but
will not rest until the name of history authorized Tribunal has rendered its verdict.

SPEECH TO THE EMPIRE DAYS ON 21 June 1922

The interpellation Stresemann
[1] I have the honor to be answered as follows:

can "The term" neutralize
you understand two very different legal concepts.

Unless this is meant the ban in Germany, always in the Rhineland
or to temporarily hold military forces or to collect or there fixtures
maintain or to create, so has the demand to that effect already contained
in Articles 42 and 43 of the Treaty of Versailles found its realization.

in
the neutralization of the Rhineland, the creation of a neutral buffer
state understood, then argument must be that the Rhineland after the
treaty Versailles is an integral part of the German Reich and the
Prussian State still are.

The Treaty of Versailles does not in the long series of his articles a provision to which any signatory
of this Treaty in a survey that effect Claim could be based. Such a requirement could therefore
realized only under breach of contract be. So far, neither side nor a suggestion of this kind to the
German Government approached. Otherwise be the German government, apart from an uncertified
newspaper notices, no news that could suggest such an intention.

Named the national government, I make a declaration that they never for any Concessions, and may
they be ever so large, it is to have, the Rhineland, while the the occupation as often his
unwavering determination to adhere to the ancestral homeland has proved to disclose its existence or to
be harmful.

The interpellation Eaves [2] relating to the railways, I have the honor to be answered as follows:

On 25 May has signed a French Ambassadors' Conference of the Prime Minister Note to the German
Government addressed in the immediate recruitment of some on-going railway construction and the
gradual elimination of certain railway premises required in the left bank of the Rhine. It bases these
claims on Article 43 of the Treaty of Versailles, the maintenance
of all physical arrangements for the mobilization those areas prohibited.

The Ambassadors' Conference believes that the rail lines, it demands
the cessation of strategic lines and facilities, whose destruction
it requires military installations were.

She has found it necessary to stress, with particular emphasis that all decisions taken in it contained
on the basis of intensive testing of such were that the economic performance of the Rhenish
railway network they is reduced in any way. The Ambassador Conference is also "noted with satisfaction,"
that the termination of the ongoing work, it would allow Germany to ensure ejected to avoid
significant expenditure and improve its financial situation.

So vivid, the German government welcomes every opportunity to raise the finances of Germany, they can
but the satisfaction of the Ambassadors Conference on the opportunity offered her to not share.

Then once the ambassadors conference passes in silence, that of the savings arising from the termination
of the ongoing work, hundreds of millions of expenditure allocated to be spent for the required
destruction measures completely unproductive will have.

Secondly, the assumption of the note that it is the discontinued operations and the for disposal
equipment exclusively for military, indifferent to the German economy
Facilities constitutes, in any way.

The German government knows that the Treaty of Versailles forbade her, in occupied territory to maintain
any permanent arrangements to serve the purpose of mobilization are
determined.

It does not intend to evade that obligation, and it is the existing facilities, if they really
destroy a military nature, dutifully leave, unless this request all economic considerations can be
maintained despite should.

The fact that she is not thinking of creating new systems of this kind started or continue, In view
of the German financial position and the whole political situation, a simple Granted.
 There they were together, he and this
girl of whom he had dreamed;--and now he was leaving her, because he did not know how to hold
her in conversation for ten minutes! But it was true, and he had to leave her. He could not
instantly tell her how he admired her, how he loved her, how he had thought of her, and how
completely she had realised all his fondest dreams. When on his horse, he turned round, and,
lifting his hat to her, took a last glance. It could not have been otherwise, he said to himself.
He had been sure that she would grow up to be exactly that which he had found her. To have
supposed that Nature could have been untrue to such promises as had been made then, would have
been to suppose Nature a liar.

Just outside the gate he met the old banker, who, according to his daily custom, had walked
back from the town. 'Yes,' said Mr. Bolton, 'I remember you,--I remember you very well. So
you found a lot of gold?'

'I got some.'

'You have been one of the few fortunate, I hear. I hope you will be able to keep it, and to
make a good use of it. My compliments to your father. Good evening.'

'I shall take an early opportunity of paying my respects again to Mrs. Bolton, who, I am sorry
to hear, is not well enough to see me,' said Caldigate, preventing the old curmudgeon from
escaping with his intended rapidity.

'She is unfortunately often an invalid, sir,--and feels therefore that she has no right to
exact from any one the ceremony of morning visits. Good evening sir.'

But he cared not much for this coldness. Having found where the gold lay at this second Ahalala,--that
the gold was real gold,--he did not doubt but that he would be able to make good his mining
operations.

Chapter XV

Again At Pollington

On his arrival at Pollington, all the Shands welcomed him as though he had been the successful
son or successful brother who had gone out from among them; and spoke of 'Poor Dick' as being
the unsuccessful son or unsuccessful brother,--as indeed he was. There did not seem to be the
slightest anger against him, in that he had thriven and had left Dick behind him in such wretched
poverty. There was no just ground for anger, indeed. He was well aware of that. He had done
his duty by Dick to the best of his ability. But fathers and mothers are sometimes apt to think
that more should be done for their own children than a friend's best ability can afford. These
people, however, were reasonable. 'Poor Dick!' 'Isn't it sad?' 'I suppose when he's quite far
away in the bush like that he can't get it,'--by which last miserable shred of security the
poor mother allowed herself to be in some degree comforted.

'Now I want you to tell me,' said the father, when they were alone together on the first evening,
'what is really his condition?'

'He was a shepherd when I last heard about him.'

'He wrote to his mother by the last mail, asking whether something cannot be done for him.
He was a shepherd then. What is a shepherd?'

'A man who goes about with the sheep all day, and brings them up to a camp at night. He may
probably be a week without seeing a human being, That is the worst of it.'

'How is he fed?'

'Food is brought out to his hut,--perhaps once a week, perhaps once a fortnight,--so much meat,
so much flour, so much tea, and so much sugar. And he has thirty or thirty-five pounds a-year
besides.'

'Paid weekly?'

'No;--perhaps quarterly, perhaps half-yearly. He can do nothing with his money as long as he
is there. If he wants a pair of boots or a new shirt, they send it out to him from the store,
and his employer charges him with the price. It is a poor life, sir.'

'Very poor. Now tell me, what can we do for him?'

'It is an affair of money.'

'But is it an affair of money, Mr. Caldigate? Is it not rather an affair of drink? He has had
his money,--more than his share; more than he ought to have had. But even though I were able
to send him more, what good would it do him?'

This was a question very difficult to answer. Caldigate had been forced to answer it to himself
in reference to his own conduct. He had sent money to his former friend, and could without
much damage to himself have sent more. Latterly he had been in that condition as to money in
which a man thinks nothing of fifty pounds,--that condition which induces one man to shoe his
horse with gold, and another to chuck his bank-notes about like half-crowns. The condition
is altogether opposed to the regulated prudence of confirmed wealth. Caldigate had stayed his
hand in regard to Dick Shand simply because the affair had been one not of money but of drink.
'I suppose a man may be cured by the absence of liquor?'

'By the enforced absence?'

'No doubt they often break out again. I hardly know what to say, sir. If you think that money
will do good,--money, that is, in moderation,--I will advance it. He and I started together,
and I am sometimes aghast with myself when I think of the small matter which, like the point
on a railway, sent me running rapidly on to prosperity,--while the same point, turned wrong,
hurried him to ruin. I have taken my glass of grog, too, my two glasses,--or perhaps more.
But that which would elate him into some fury of action would not move me. It was something
nature did for me rather than virtue. I am a rich man, and he is a shepherd, because something
was put into my stomach capable of digesting bad brandy, which was not put into his.'

'A man has more than one chance. When he found how it was with him, he should have abstained.
A man must pay the fine of his own weakness.'

'Oh, yes. It is all understood somewhere, I suppose, though we don't understand it. I tell
you what it is, Dr. Shand. If you think that five hundred pounds left with you can be of any
assistance, you can have it.'

But the doctor seemed to doubt whether the money would do any good, and refused to take it,
at any rate for the present. What could he do with it, if he did take it? 'I fear that he must
lie upon his bed as he has made it,' said the doctor sorrowfully. 'It is a complaint which
money cannot cure, but can always exaggerate. If, without costing myself or my family a shilling,
I could put a thousand pounds into his hands to-morrow, I do not know whether I ought to do it.'

'You will remember my offer.'

The doctor thanked him, and said that he would remember. So the conversation was ended, and
the doctor went about the ordinary occupation of his life, apparently without any settled grief
at his heart. He had done his duty by his son, and that sufficed,--or almost sufficed, for him.

Then came the mother's turn. Could anything be sent to the poor lost one,--to poor Dick? Clothes
ran chiefly in her mind. If among them they could make up a dozen of shirts, would there be
any assured means of getting them conveyed safely to Dick's shepherd-hut out in the Queensland
bush? In answer to this Caldigate would fain have explained, had it been possible, that Dick
would not care much for a dozen new shirts,--that they would be to him, even if received, almost
as little a source of comfort as would be a ton of Newcastle coals. He had sunk below shirts
by the dozen; almost below single shirts, such as Mrs. Shand and her daughters would be able
to fabricate. Some upper flannel garment, and something in the nature of trousers, with a belt
round his middle, and an old straw-hat would be all the wardrobe required by him. Men by dint
of misery rise above the need of superfluities. The poor wretch whom you see rolling himself,
as it were, at the corner of the street within his old tattered filthy coat, trying to extract
something more of life and warmth out of the last glass of gin which he has swallowed, is by
no means discomposed because he has no clean linen for the morrow. All this Caldigate understood
thoroughly;--but there was a difficulty in explaining it to Dick Shand's mother. 'I think there
would be some trouble about the address,' he said.

'But you must know so many people out there.'

'I have never been in Queensland myself, and have no acquaintance with squatters. But that
is not all, Mrs. Shand.'

'What else? You can tell me. Of course I know what it is that he has come to. I don't blind
myself to it, Mr. Caldigate, even though I am his mother. But I am his mother; and if I could
comfort him, just a little----'

'Clothes are not what he wants;--of clothes he can get what is necessary, poor as he is.'

'What is it he wants most?'

'Somebody to speak to;--some one to be kind to him.'

'My poor boy!'

'As he has fallen to what he is now, so can he rise again if he can find courage to give his
mind to it. I think that if you write to him and tell him so, that will be better than sending
him shirts. The doctor has been talking to me about money for him.'

'But, Mr. Caldigate, he couldn't drink the shirts out there in the bush. Here, where there
is a pawn-broker at all the corners, they drink everything.'

He had promised to stay two days at Pollington and was of course aware of the dangers among
which he walked. Maria had been by no means the first to welcome him. All the other girls had
presented themselves before her. And when at last she did come forward she was very shy. The
eldest daughter had married her clergyman though he was still only a curate; and the second
had been equally successful with Lieutenant Postlethwaite though the lieutenant had been obliged
in consequence to leave the army and to earn his bread by becoming agent to a soap-making company.
Maria Shand was still Maria Shand, and was it not too probable that she had remained so for
the sake of that companion who had gone away with her darling brother Dick? 'Maria has been
thinking so much about your coming,' said the youngest,--not the girl who had been impertinent
and ill-behaved before, for she had since become a grown-up Miss Shand, and had a young attorney
of her own on hand, and was supposed to be the one of the family most likely to carry her pigs
to a good market,--but the youngest of them all who had been no more than a child when he had
been at Pollington before. 'I hope she is at home,' said Caldigate 'At home! Of course she's
at home. She wouldn't be away when you're coming!'

The Shands were demonstrative, always;--and never hypocritical. Here it was; told at once,--the
whole story. He was to atone for having left Dick in the lurch by marrying Maria. There did
seem to him to be a certain amount of justice in the idea; but then, unfortunately, it could
not be carried out. If there were nothing else against it but the existence of the young lady
at Chesterton, that alone would have been sufficient. And then, though Maria Shand was very
well, though, no doubt, she would make a true and loving wife to any husband, though there
had been a pretty touch of feeling about the Thomson's 'Seasons,'--still, still, she was not
all that he fancied that a wife should be. He was quite willing to give £500 for Dick; but
after that he thought that he would have had almost enough of the Shands. He could not marry
Maria, and so he must say plainly if called upon to declare himself in the matter. There was
an easiness about the family generally which enabled him to hope that the difficulty would
be light. It would be as nothing compared with that coming scene between himself and aunt Polly,
perhaps between himself and his uncle Babington, or perhaps,--worse again,--between himself
and Julia!

When he found himself alone with Maria in the drawing-room on the following morning, he almost
thought that it must have been arranged by the family. 'Doesn't it seem almost no time since
you went away,' said the young lady.

'It has gone quickly;--but a great deal has been done.'

'I suppose so. Poor Dick!'

'Yes, indeed! Poor fellow! We can only hope about Dick. I have been speaking to your father
about him.'

'Of course we all know that you did your very best for him. He has said so himself when he
has written. But you;--you have been fortunate.'

'Yes, I have done very well. There is so much chance at it that there is nothing to be proud of.'

'I am sure there is a great deal;--cleverness, and steadiness, and courage, and all that. We
were delighted to hear it, though poor Dick could not share it with you. You have made an immense
fortune.'

'Oh dear no,--not that. I have been able to get over the little difficulties which I left behind
me when I went away, and have got something in hand to live upon.'

'And now----?'

'I suppose I shall go back again,' said Caldigate, with an air of indifference.

'Go back again!' said Maria, who had not imagined this. But still a man going back to Australia
might take a wife with him. She would not object to the voyage. Her remembrance of the evening
on which she had crept down and put the little book into his valise was so strong that she
felt herself to be justified in being in love with him. 'But not for always?'

'Certainly not;--but just to wind up affairs.'

It would be no more than a pleasant wedding-tour,--and, perhaps, she could do something for
poor Dick. She could take the shirts so far on their destination.

'Oh, Mr. Caldigate, how well I remember that last night!'

'So indeed, do I,--and the book.' The hardship upon the moth is that though he has already
scorched himself terribly in the flame, and burned up all the tender fibre of his wings, yet
he can't help returning to the seductions of the tallow-candle till his whole body has become
a wretched cinder. Why should he have been the first to speak of the book?

Of course she blushed, and of course she stammered But in spite of her stammering she could
say a word. 'I dare say you never looked at it.'

'Indeed I did,--very often. Once when Dick saw it in my hands, he wanted to take it away from me.'

'Poor Dick!'

'But I have never parted with it for an hour!'

'Where is it now?' she asked.

'Here,' said Caldigate, pulling it out of the breast-pocket of his coat. If he had had the
presence of mind to say that he had lent the book to another young lady, and that she had never
returned it, there might probably have been an end of this little trouble at once. But when
the little volume appeared, just as though it had been kept close to his heart during all these
four years, of course she was entitled to hope. He had never opened the book since that morning
in his cabin, not caring for the academic beauties of Thomson's 'Seasons;'--had never looked
at it till it had occurred to him as proper that he should take it with him to Pollington.
Now he brought it out of his pocket, and she put out her hand to receive it from him. 'You
are not going to take it back again?'

'Certainly not if it be of any value to you?'

'Do you not value the presents which your friends make you?'

'If I care for the friends, I do.'

'As I care very much for this friend I shall keep the book.'

'I don't think that can be true, Mr. Caldigate?'

He was painfully near the blaze;--determined not to be burned, and yet with no powers of flying
away from the candle into the farthest corner of the room. 'Why not true? I have kept it hitherto.
It has been with me in many very strange places.'

Then there was a pause,--while he thought of escaping, and she of utilising the occasion. And
yet it was not in her nature to be unmaidenly or aggressive Only if he did like her it would
be so very nice, and it is so often the case that men want a little encouragement! 'I dare
say you thought more of the book than the donor.'

'That is intended to be unkind.'

'No;--certainly not. I can never be unkind to a friend who has been so very good as you were
to poor Dick. Whatever else may happen, I shall,--never,--forget--that.' By this time there
was a faint sound of sobbing to be heard, and then she turned away her face that she might
wipe a tear from her eyes. It was a real tear, and a real sob, and she really thought that
she was in love with him.

'I know I ought not to have come here,' he said.

'Why not?' she asked energetically.

'Because my coming would give rise to so much sadness about your brother.'

'I am so glad you have come,--so very glad. Of course we wanted to hear. And besides----'

'What besides?'

'Papa and mamma, and all of them, are so glad to see you. We never forget old friends.' Then
again there was silence. 'Never,' she repeated, as she rose from her chair slowly and went
out of the room. Though he had fluttered flamewards now and again, though he had shown some
moth-like aptitudes, he had not shown himself to be a downright, foolish, blind-eyed moth,
determined to burn himself to a cinder as a moth should do. And she;--she was weak. Having
her opportunity at command, she went away and left him, because she did not know what more
to say. She went away to her own bedroom, and cried, and had a headache, during the remainder
of the day. And yet there was no other day!

Late that evening, just at the hour when, on the previous night, he was closeted with the father,
he found himself closeted with the mother. 'She has never forgotten you for one moment since
you left us,' said the mother. Mrs. Shand had rushed into the subject so quickly that these
were almost the first words she said to him. He remained quite quiet, looking out from the
open window into the moonlight. When a distinct proposition was made to him like this, he certainly
would not be a moth. 'I don't know whether you have thought of her too, Mr. Caldigate.' He
only shook his head. 'That is so?'

'I hope you do not think that I have been to blame in any way,' he said, with a conscience
somewhat stricken;--for he remembered well that he had kissed the young lady on that evening
four years ago.

'Oh no. I have no complaint to make. My poor child! It is a pity. But I have nothing more to
say. It must be so then?'

'I am the least settled man in all the world, Mrs. Shand.'

'But at some future time?'

'I fear not. My mind is intent on other things.' So it was;--intent on Hester Bolton! But the
statement as he made it, was certainly false, for it was intended to deceive. Mrs. Shand shook
hands with him kindly, however, as she sent him away to bed, telling him that breakfast should
be ready for him at eight the next morning.

His train left Pollington at nine, and at eight the doctor with all his family were there to
greet him at the breakfast-table,--with all the family except Maria. The mother, in the most
natural tone in the world, said that poor Maria had a headache and could not come down. They
filled his plate with eggs and bacon and toast, and were as good to him as though he had blighted
no hopes and broken no heart. He whispered one word at going to the doctor. 'Pray remember
that whenever you think the money can be of use, it is there. I consider that I owe him quite
as much as that.' The father grasped his hand, and all of them blessed him as he went.

'If I can only get away from Babington as easily!' he said to himself, as he took his place
in the railway carriage.

Chapter XVI

Again at Babington

The affair of Julia Babington had been made to him in set terms, and had, if not accepted,
not been at once refused. No doubt this had occurred four years ago, and, if either of them
had married since, they would have met each other without an unpleasant reminiscence. But they
had not done so, and there was no reason why the original proposition should not hold good.
After escaping from Babington he had, indeed, given various reasons why such a marriage was
impossible. He had sold his inheritance. He was a ruined man. He was going out to Australia
as a simple miner. It was only necessary for him to state all this, and it became at once evident
that he was below the notice of Julia Babington. But everything had been altered since that.
He had regained his inheritance, he had come back a rich man, and he was more than ever indebted
to the family because of the violent fight they had made on his behalf, just as he was going.
As he journeyed to Babington all this was clear to him; and it was clear to him also that,
from his first entrance into the house, he must put on an air of settled purpose, he must gird
up his loins seriously, he must let it be understood that he was not as he used to be, ready
for worldly lectures from his aunt, or for romping with his female cousins, or for rats, or
rabbits, or partridges, with the male members of the family. The cares of the world must be
seen to sit heavy on him, and at the very first mention of a British wife he must declare himself
to be wedded to Polyeuka.

At Babington he was received with many fatted calves. The whole family were there to welcome
him, springing out upon him and dragging him out of the fly as soon as he had entered the park
gates. Aunt Polly almost fainted as she was embracing him under an oak tree; and tears, real
tears, ran down the squire's face as he shook both his nephew's hands at once. 'By George,'
said the Babington heir, 'you're the luckiest fellow I ever heard of! We all thought Folking
was gone for good.' As though the possessions of Folking were the summit of human bliss! Caldigate
with all the girls around him could not remonstrate with words, but his spirit did remonstrate.
'Oh, John, we are so very, very, very, very glad to have you back again,' said Julia, sobbing
and laughing at the same time. He had kissed them all of course, and now Julia was close to
his elbow as he walked up to the house.

In the midst of all this there was hardly opportunity for that deportment which he meant to
exercise. When fatted calves are being killed for you by the dozen, it is very difficult to
repudiate the good nature of the slaughterers. Little efforts he did make even before he got
to the house. 'I hardly know how I stand just yet,' he had said, in answer to his uncle's congratulations
as to his wealth. 'I must go out again at any rate.'

'Back to Australia?' asked his aunt.

'I fear so. It is a kind of business,--gold-mining,--in which it is very hard for a man to
know what he's worth. A claim that has been giving you a thousand pounds net every month for
two years past, comes all of sudden a great deal worse than valueless. You can't give it up,
and you have to throw back your thousands in profitless work.'

'I wouldn't do that,' said the squire.

'I'd stick to what I'd got,' said the Babington heir.

'It is a very difficult business,' said Caldigate, with a considerable amount of deportment,
and an assumed look of age,--as though the cares of gold-seeking had made him indifferent to
all the lighter joys of existence.

'But you mean to live at Folking?' asked Aunt Polly.

'I should think probably not. But a man situated as I am, never can say where he means to live.'

'But you are to have Folking?' whispered the squire,--whispered it so that all the party heard
the words;--whispering not from reticence but excitement.

'That's the idea at present,' said the Folking heir. 'But Polyeuka is so much more to me than
Folking. A gold mine with fifty or sixty thousand pounds worth of plant about it, Aunt Polly,
is an imperious mistress.' In all this our hero was calumniating himself. Polyeuka and the
plant he was willing to abandon on very moderate terms, and had arranged to wipe his hands
of the whole concern if those moderate terms were accepted. But cousin Julia and aunt Polly
were enemies against whom it was necessary to assume whatever weapons might come to his hand.

He had arranged to stay a week at Babington. He had considered it all very deeply, and had
felt that as two days was the least fraction of time which he could with propriety devote to
the Shands, so must he give at least a week to Babington. There was, therefore, no necessity
for any immediate violence on the part of the ladies. The whole week might probably have been
allowed to pass without absolute violence, had he not shown by various ways that he did not
intend to make many visits to the old haunts of his childhood before his return to Australia.
When he said that he should not hunt in the coming winter; that he feared his hand was out
for shooting; that he had an idea of travelling on the Continent during the autumn; and that
there was no knowing when he might be summoned back to Polyeuka, of course there came across
Aunt Polly's mind,--and probably also across Julia's mind,--an idea that he meant to give them
the slip again. On the former occasion he had behaved badly. This was their opinion. But, as
it had turned out, his circumstances at the moment were such as to make his conduct pardonable.
He had been harassed by the importunities both of his father and of Davis; and that, under
such circumstances, he should have run away from his affianced bride, was almost excusable,
But now----! It was very different now. Something must be settled. It was very well to talk
about Polyeuka. A man who has engaged himself in business must, no doubt, attend to it. But
married men can attend to business quite as well as they who are single. At any rate, there
could be no reason why the previous engagement should not be consolidated and made a family
affair. There was felt to be something almost approaching to resistance in what he had said
and done already. Therefore Aunt Polly flew to her weapons, and summoned Julia also to take
up arms. He must be bound at once with chains, but the chains were made as soft as love and
flattery could make them. Aunt Polly was almost angry,--was prepared to be very angry;--but
not the less did she go on killing fatted calves.

There were archery meetings at this time through the country, the period of the year being
unfitted for other sports. It seemed to Caldigate as though all the bows and all the arrows
had been kept specially for him,--as though he was the great toxophilite of the age,--whereas
no man could have cared less for the amusement than he. He was carried here and was carried
there; and then there was a great gathering in their own park at home. But it always came to
pass that he and Julia were shooting together,--as though it were necessary that she should
teach him,--that she should make up by her dexterity for what was lost by his awkwardness,--that
she by her peculiar sweetness should reconcile him to his new employment. Before the week was
over, there was a feeling among all the dependants at Babington, and among many of the neighbours,
that everything was settled, and that Miss Julia was to be the new mistress of Folking.

Caldigate knew that it was so. He perceived the growth of the feeling from day to day. He could
not say that he would not go to the meetings, all of which had been arranged beforehand. Nor
could he refuse to stand up beside his cousin Julia and shoot his arrows directly after she
had shot hers. Nor could he refrain from acknowledging that though she was awkward in a drawing-room,
she was a buxom young woman dressed in green with a feather in her hat and a bow in her hand;
and then she could always shoot her arrows straight into the bull's-eye. But he was well aware
that the new hat had been bought specially for him, and that the sharpest arrow from her quiver
was intended to be lodged in his heart. He was quite determined that any such shooting as that
should be unsuccessful.

'Has he said anything?' the mother asked the daughter. 'Not a word.' This occurred on the Sunday
night. He had reached Babington on the previous Tuesday, and was to go to Folking on next Tuesday.
'Not a word.' The reply was made in a tone almost of anger. Julia did believe that her cousin
had been engaged to her, and that she actually had a right to him, now that he had come back,
no longer ruined.

'Some men never do,' said Aunt Polly, not wishing to encourage her daughter's anger just at
present. 'Some men are never left alone with a girl for half a moment, but what they are talking
stuff and nonsense. Others never seem to think about it in the least. But whether it's the
one or whether it's the other, it makes no difference afterwards. He never had much talk of
that kind. I'll just say a word to him, Julia.'

The saying of the word was put off till late on Sunday evening. Sunday was rather a trying
day at Babington. If hunting, shooting, fishing, croquet, lawn-billiards, bow and arrows, battledore
and shuttle-cock, with every other game, as games come up and go, constitute a worldly kind
of life, the Babingtons were worldly. There surely never was a family in which any kind of
work was so wholly out of the question, and every amusement so much a matter of course. But
if worldliness and religion are terms opposed to each other, then they were not worldly. There
were always prayers for the whole household morning and evening. There were two services on
Sunday, at the first of which the males, and at both of which the females, were expected to
attend. But the great struggle came after dinner at nine o'clock, when Aunt Polly always read
a sermon out loud to the assembled household. Aunt Polly had a certain power of her own, and
no one dared to be absent except the single servant who was left in the kitchen to look after
the fire.

The squire himself was always there, but a peculiar chair was placed for him, supposed to be
invisible to the reader, in which he slept during the whole time, subject to correction from
a neighbouring daughter in the event of his snoring. An extra bottle of port after dinner was
another Sunday observance which added to the irritability of the occasion,--so that the squire,
when the reading and prayers were over, would generally be very cross, and would take himself
up to bed almost without a word, and the brothers would rush away almost with indecent haste
to their smoking. As the novels had all been put away into a cupboard, and the good books which
were kept for the purpose strewed about in place of them, and as knitting, and even music,
were tabooed, the girls, having nothing to do, would also go away at an early hour.

'John, would you mind staying a few moments with me?' said Aunt Polly, in her softest voice
when Caldigate was hurrying after his male cousins. He knew that the hour had come, and he
girded up his loins.

'Come nearer, John,' she said,--and he came nearer, so that she could put her hand upon his.
'Do you remember, John, when you and I and Julia were together in that little room up-stairs?'
There was so much pathos in her voice, she did her acting so well, that his respect for her
was greatly augmented,--as was also his fear. 'She remembers it very well.'

'Of course I remember it, Aunt Polly. It's one of those things that a man doesn't forget.'

'A man ought not to forget such a scene as that,' she said, shaking her head. 'A man would
be very hard of heart if he could forget it.'

Now must be the moment for his exertion! She had spoken so plainly as to leave no doubt of
her meaning, and she was pausing for an answer; yet he hesitated,--not in his purpose, but
doubting as to his own manner of declaring it. He must be very decided. Upon that he was resolved.
He would be decided, though they should drag him in pieces with wild horses for it afterwards.
But he would fain be gentle with his aunt if it were possible. 'My dear Aunt Polly, it won't
do; I'm not going to be caught, and so you may as well give it over.' That was what he wished
her to understand;--but he would not say it in such language. Much was due to her, though she
was struggling to catch him in a trap. 'When I had made such a fool of myself before I went--about
money,' he said, 'I thought that was all over.'

'But you have made anything but a fool of yourself since,' she replied triumphantly; 'you have
gone out into the world like a man, and have made your fortune, and have so returned that everybody
is proud of you. Now you can take a wife to yourself and settle down, and be a happy goodman.'

It was exactly his view of life;--only there was a difference about the wife to be taken. He
certainly had never said a word to his cousin which could justify this attack upon him. The
girl had been brought to him in a cupboard, and he had been told that he was to marry her!
And that when he had been young and drowned with difficulties. How is a man ever to escape
if he must submit under such circumstances as these? 'My dear Aunt Polly, I had better tell
you at once that I cannot marry my cousin Julia.' Those were the words which he did speak,
and as he spoke there was a look about his eyes and his mouth which ought to have made her
know that there was no hope.

'And why not? John Caldigate, is this you that I hear?'

'Why should I?'

'Because you promised it.'

'I never did, Aunt Polly.'

'And because she loves you.'

'Even if it were so, am I to be bound by that? But, indeed, indeed, I never even suggested
it,--never thought of it. I am very fond of my cousin, very fond of all my cousins. But marriage
is a different thing. I am inclined to think that cousins had better not marry.'

'You should have said that before. But it is nonsense. Cousins marry every day. There is nothing
about it either in the Bible or the Prayer-book. She will die.'

Aunt Polly said this in a tone of voice which made it a matter of regret that she should not
have been educated for Drury Lane. But as she said it, he could not avoid thinking of Julia's
large ankles, and red cheeks, and of the new green hat and feather. A girl with large ankles
is, one may suppose, as liable to die for love as though she were as fine about her feet as
a thorough-bred filly; and there is surely no reason why a true heart and a pair of cherry
cheeks should not go together. But our imagination has created ideas in such matters so fixed,
that it is useless to contend against them. In our endeavours to produce effects, these ideas
should be remembered and obeyed. 'I hope not on that account,' said Caldigate, and as he uttered
the words some slightest suspicion of a smile crossed his face.

Then Aunt Polly blazed forth in wrath. 'And at such a moment as this you can laugh!'

'Indeed, I did not laugh;--I am very far from laughing, Aunt Polly.'

'Because I am anxious for my child, my child whom you have deceived, you make yourself merry
with me!'

'I am not merry. I am miserably unhappy because of all this. But I cannot admit that I have
deceived my cousin. All that was settled, I thought, when I went away. But coming back at the
end of four years, of four such long years, with very different ideas of life----'

'What ideas?'

'Well,--at any rate, with ideas of having my own way,--I cannot submit myself to this plan
of yours, which, though it would have given me so much----'

'It would give you everything, sir.'

'Granted! But I cannot take everything. It is better that we should understand each other,
so that my cousin, for whom I have the most sincere regard, should not be annoyed.'

'Much you care!'

'What shall I say?'

'It signifies nothing what you say. You are a false man. You have inveigled your cousin's affections,
and now you say that you can do nothing for her. This comes from the sort of society you have
kept out at Botany Bay! I suppose a man's word there is worth nothing, and that the women are
of such a kind they don't mind it. It is not the way with gentlemen here in England; let me
tell you that!' Then she stalked out of the room, leaving him either to go to bed, or join
the smokers or to sit still and repent at his leisure, as he might please. His mind, however,
was chiefly occupied for the next half-hour with thinking whether it would be possible for
him to escape from Babington on the following morning.

Before the morning he had resolved that, let the torment of the day be what it might, he would
bear it,--unless by chance he might be turned out of the house. But no tragedy such as that
came to relieve him. Aunt Polly gave him his tea at breakfast with a sternly forbidding look,--and
Julia was as cherry-cheeked as ever, though very silent. The killing of calves was over, and
he was left to do what he pleased during the whole day. One spark of comfort came to him. 'John,
my boy,' said his uncle in a whisper, 'what's the matter between you and Madame?' Mr. Babington
would sometimes call his wife Madame when he was half inclined to laugh at her. Caldigate of
course declared that there was nothing wrong. The squire shook his head and went away. But
from this it appeared to Caldigate that the young lady's father was not one of the conspirators,--by
ascertaining which his mind was somewhat relieved.

On the next morning the fly came for him, and he went away without any kisses. Upon the whole
he was contented with both his visits, and was inclined to assure himself that a man has only
to look a difficulty in the face, and that the difficulty will be difficult no longer.

Chapter XVII

Again at Puritan Grange

As Caldigate travelled home to Folking he turned many things in his mind. In the first place
he had escaped, and that to him was a matter of self-congratulation. He had declared his purpose
in reference to his cousin Julia very clearly;--and though he had done so he had not quarrelled
utterly with the family. As far as the young lady's father was concerned or her brothers, there
had been no quarrel at all. The ill-will against him was confined to the women. But as he thought
of it all, he was not proud of himself. He had received great kindness from their hands, and
certainly owed them much in return. When he had been a boy he had been treated almost as one
of the family;--but as he had not been quite one of them, would it not have been natural that
he should be absorbed in the manner proposed? And then he could not but admit to himself that
he had been deficient in proper courage when he had been first caught and taken into the cupboard.
On that occasion he had neither accepted nor rejected the young lady; and in such a matter
as this silence certainly may be supposed to give consent. Though he rejoiced in his escape
he was not altogether proud of his conduct in reference to his friends at Babington.

Would it not have been better that he should have told his aunt frankly that his heart was
engaged elsewhere? The lady's name would have been asked, and the lady's name could not have
been given. But he might in this way have prepared the way for the tidings which would have
to be communicated should he finally be successful with Hester Bolton. Now such news would
reach them as an aggravation of the injury. For that, however, there could be no remedy. The
task at present before him was that of obtaining a footing in the house at Chesterton, and
the more he thought of it the more he was at a loss to know how to set about it. They could
not intend to shut such a girl up, through all her young years, as in a convent. There must
be present to the minds of both of them an idea that marriage would be good for her, or, at
any rate, that she should herself have some choice in the matter. And if there were to be any
son-in-law why should not he have as good a chance as any other? Tools for Culture 4. Chapter.
Cultivation and propagation 5. Chapter.
Enumeration of the foliage Ferns Selaginella
   Cycads
   Conifers Pandanaceen
   Palm trees
   Araceae Bromeliaceae
   Commelinaceae
   Liliaceae
   Amaryllidaceae
   Musaceae Marantaceae
   Piperaceae Moraceae
   Celastraceae
   Begoniaceae Myrtaceae
   Melastomataceae
   Araliaceae
   Cornaceae
   Labiatae
   Acanthaceae
   Rubiaceae Caprifoliaceae
   Footnotes

INTRODUCTION

This
   tape is the friend
   of rooms foliage
   angle short
   of the culture
   Journal of
   plant type.
   To give detailed
descriptions of the author believed to be able to since these are
to be placed in the special tapes to the library.

There was just waiting on to discuss the general living conditions
of the Journal of short plants, general hints to provide for the culture
of the foliage and make a selection of foliage plants, the even the
layman can really cultivate in the room.

However, I could not refuse me, include some species that can be better in the glass case holds
as free in the room. Own Experience has taught me, however, that these delicate plants, with careful
maintenance, including mainly constant humidity and temperature of the earth belong, and longer
time free in the room can hold. May the lovers who already have other plants long time has
grown to try them on once! The beauty of these plants, which in our German nurseries have almost
disappeared completely, but probably the least worthwhile little trouble, which they prepare. I
am especially indebted to the company * * Haage & Schmidt in Erfurt, one of the few nurseries
in Germany, the even rarer cultivated plants, required for transfer of images. The plants
discussed in this work are all present in this nursery.

* Large light field * in the spring 1899th

* Udo Dammer. *

------------------

                  PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION

                                                           

                            The warm welcome, which has seen the first edition has a new edition
of the this ribbon made it necessary.

At the content I had to change little: a few new species, which have
proven to be well suited for the room were included.

Desirable it appeared to me also, on some newer tools for the culture of rooms foliage noted.
May, this new edition of the beginner in the room culture is a plant leaf be more useful advice.

*
Dahlem *, in January 1908.

* Udo Dammer. CHAPTER. GENERAL LIVING CONDITIONS

                        To cultivate leafy plants successfully in the room can say it to the
highest development to bring, it is necessary that one keeps in mind
that it is the leaves which, namely only in the light, the bulk of
the solid plant material, the carbon from the air Form of carbonic
acid, and record the carbon deposited from this.

                                                           Without light the work of the leaves is not possible.

It takes place most intensively in the sunlight, less strong in the
scattered light of day instead, and decreases in proportion as the
light fades.

                            In the room now, each plant receives much less light than outdoors.

Even at a distance of one meter from the window of the plant has only a fifth of the amount of light,
which is a Plant in the garden receives. You can do so here only a fifth of the work. The closer We
provide the plant in the window, the more light it receives, the better it is develop.

The carbonic acid is present in the air only in small quantities. In 10,000 parts of air are
only about 4 parts of carbon dioxide. In addition, the plant still needs oxygen from the air,
a gas of which are in 100 parts of air containing only 21 parts. To the plant, these two Components
to perform quite abundant, we need to give her so very much fresh air.

The bulk of the fresh plant is water. Can not live without water the plant. The large leaf surface
to evaporate water resistant, more so the drier the air. Room air, especially in winter in a
heated room, very dry. The water-evaporation the plant is then particularly strong. The resulting
water loss by evaporation we must replace it with watering.

With the water takes up the plant from the soil nutrients it during the growing season needs. During
the dormant period the plant needs these nutrients or only in very limited extent. Therefore,
we must ensure that the plant during the dormant season minimize evaporation, so it is not forced
to take a lot of nutrients with the water. The evaporation is limited by moist air and low
temperature. If we spray leaves frequently forms are the same, a damp, cool air. In addition,
we keep the plants from excessive evaporation by that we do during the night cover with a few
bars of outstretched piece of wet linen, gauze or the like. While the growing season, we must also
abundant for abundant water evaporation and replacement To ensure that the plants absorb the water quite
a lot of nutrients from the soil. The Water uptake by roots and that is only the stronger, the
warmer the roots surrounding earth. The cooler the soil is, the lower the root activity. While the
growing season, we water the plants so water that is warmer than the Room temperature. Delicate
one can progressively in water of 25 to 30 ° R [31.25 to 37.5 ° C used]. Then you are very comfortable.
You should never water for watering Use that is cooler than the room temperature.

The soil in the pot should always contain a certain amount of air. Earth, which continuously
so wet is that no air space is added, is not suitable for the growth of plants. The Roots suffocate
in such earth and rot, the plant is destroyed. Therefore, we must ensure that the excess irrigation water
can quickly drain from the pot. The hole in the bottom of the pot should never be blocked by earth.
On the other hand should not the Earth are too dry, otherwise the plants are not enough water, the
very dry soil but often very difficult to accept water. When the plants daily with enough
water watered, are then often enters the case that the soil in the pot gradually from the
bottom dry, while it is up wet. The roots then dry up easily. Plants, the earth has become too
dry for several hours to set up on the rim of the pot in a bowl of water at about 30 degree
R [37.5 ° C]. To ensure even, not too strong and not get too little moisture in the soil in
the pot, it pours only when the plant needs water, that is when the leaves start to become limp,
but then poured are abundant on until the water flows out the drain hole. If the water immediately after
Baste the drains, then it is a sign that the earth is so dry in a place that it takes no more water.
The pot is then put immediately in water.

All plants need a certain temperature their growth. Each plant has over the year a certain rest period.
During this period the temperature may be lower be, as during the
period of growth.

                            Depending on the needs of the home of the plant concerned Temperature
during the dormant period to be colder or warmer.

Plants of the tropics will also Nuheperiode during a temperature
of 12-15 ° R. [15-18 ° C], so they are in a heated to keep the living
room.

Plants of the subtropics and the tropical climate of this Mountain keeps you best at 6-10 ° R. [7-12
° C], so in an unheated, but with heated rooms in related rooms. The warm temperate zone plants
are best at 2 biz 4 ° R. wintered in the frost-free so bright basement, corridors, etc. on
light plant the cold temperate zone must be very cold in winter, freezing them is not easy harmful.
But it should not plant the pots standing in auösetzen to severe cold.

------------------

2. CHAPTER. THE LOCATIONS FOR INDOOR PLANTS

The best place for house plants is a projecting bay window, the window
sill, the receives light from three sides.

In such a bay window, the plants can also damage without something from the window are removed.
Coming soon is the sill of an ordinary room most advantageous. Harder for plants, especially
those of the Cape and Australia, is the double window, a good place. Unfortunately, the window sills
and double windows in our modern houses so narrow that plants have
limited space there.

The window sills broadening is most simply by a board which is supported by two struts. To keep
cold air penetrating through every window of the pots away, is placed on the Windowsill across
some bars and on this one piece bent at right angles to the length Cardboard, so that the high half of the
window is facing. The cold air then flows from under the cardboard.

For both the bay and for the room by the window then the Blumentritt quite . Recommend The same should
not have to narrow steps. To the annoying dripping when pouring avoided, be put on the steps
at the best flat zinc boxes. Blumentritt can be ordered with leaf plants are very beautiful.
They provide a small space of a large number Plant Place.

Flowers are less desirable tables. Completely discard the round, because on you get the plants
only partially light. Slightly better are long, narrow tables, on where the plants only in
one, than stand in two rows. A beautiful arrangement of plants on these tables is rarely possible.
Better as even the flower stand for individual plants. The same is usually given large pots made of porcelain
or Majolica but are useless because the air can not come to put into pots.

For very delicate plants, which need constantly moist air, is the glass globe and the Glass case
in the application. Glass bells should have no button. However, as larger dimensions them are
expensive recommends more of the glass box. The simplest form of it is from 5 slices, which
are glued together with paper strips and protein. With such a Box is covered plants, the pots
in a shallow wooden or metal box stand.

Will Apply a little more, so leave it to the plumber a simple frame made of zinc, tin, can be
inserted into the glass mat. The frame is a metal box Zinc plate firmly. In such a case can
be the most sensitive foliage plants . Keep It can heat up easily if the soil is of sheet iron.
As fuel used the simplest fuel oil. A night light provides enough heat.

------------------

3. CHAPTER. TOOLS FOR THE ARTS

The plants in the pots offered food usually ranges from long, in order to to bring the highest
development. We therefore make do us in the way that we, the plants often planted in larger
pots and they take this opportunity to fresh, nutritious soil , Or from in the way that we
fertilize the plants.
 'If you will make inquiry I think you will find
that I have so far succeeded as to justify you in hoping that I may be able to marry and settle
myself in my own country.'

'You don't know my daughter at all.'

'Very little.'

'It is quite out of the question. She is very young, and such a thing has never occurred to
her. And we are not the same sort of people.'

'Why not, Mrs. Bolton? Your husband and my father have been intimate friends for a great many
years. It is not as though I had taken up the idea only yesterday. It has been present with
me, comforting me, during all my work, for the last five years. I know all your daughter's
features as though she had been my constant companion.' The lady shivered and almost trembled
at this profanation of her child's name. It was trouble to her that one so holy should ever
have been thought about by one so unholy. 'Of course I do not ask for anything at present;--but
will you not consult your husband as to the propriety of allowing her to make my acquaintance?'

'I shall tell my husband, of course.'

'And will repeat to him what I say?'

'I shall tell him,--as I should any other most wild proposition that might be made to me. But
I am quite sure that he will be very angry.'

'Angry! why should he be angry?'

'Because----' Then she stopped.

'I do not think, Mrs. Bolton, that there can be any cause for anger. If I were a beggar, if
I were below her in position, if I had not means to keep a wife,--even if I were a stranger
to his name, he might be angry. But I do not think he can be angry with me, now, because, in
the most straightforward way, I come to the young lady's parents and tell them that I love
their child. Is it a disgrace to me that of all whom I have seen I think her to be the loveliest
and best? Her father may reject me; but he will be very unreasonable if he is angry with me.'

She could not tell him about the dove and the kite, or the lamb and the wolf. She could not
explain to him that he was a sinner, unregenerated, a wild man in her estimation, a being of
quite another kind than herself, and therefore altogether unfitted to be the husband of her
girl! Her husband, no doubt, could do all this--if he would. But then she too had her own skeleton
in her own cupboard. She was not quite assured of her own husband's regeneration. He went to
church regularly, and read his Bible, and said his prayers. But she feared,--she was almost
sure,--that he liked the bank-books better than his Bible. That he would reject this offer
from John Caldigate, she did not doubt. She had always heard her husband speak of the man with
disapprobation and scorn. She had heard the whole story of Davis and the Newmarket debts. She
had heard, too, the man's subsequent prosperity spoken of as a thing of chance,--as having
come from gambling on an extensive scale. She herself regarded money acquired in so unholy
a way as likely to turn to slate-stones, or to fly away and become worse than nothing. She
knew that Mr. Bolton, whether regenerate or not, regarded young Caldigate as an adventurer,
and that therefore, the idea of such a marriage would be as unpalatable to him as to herself.
But she did not dare to tell her visitor that he was an unregenerate kite, lest her husband
would not support her.

'Whatever more you have got to say, you had better say it to him,' she replied to the lover
when he had come to the end of his defence. At that moment the door opened, and a gentleman
entered the room. This was Mr. Robert Bolton, the attorney. Now of all her husband's sons,--who
were, of course, not her sons,--Mrs. Bolton saw this one the most frequently and perhaps liked
him the least. Or it might be juster to say that she was more afraid of him than of the others.
The two eldest, who were both in the bank, were quiet, sober men, who lived affluently and
were married to religious wives, and brought up their children plentifully and piously. She
did not see very much of them, because her life was not a social life. But among her friends
they were the most intimate. But Robert's wife was given to gaiety and dinner-parties and had
been seen even at balls. And Robert himself was much oftener at the Grange than either of the
other brothers. He managed his father's private affairs, and was, perhaps, of all his sons
the best liked by the father. He was prosperous in his business and was reported to be the
leading lawyer in the town. In the old Cambridge days he had entertained John Caldigate at
his house; and though they had not met since the miner's return from Australia, each at once
knew the other, and their greeting was friendly 'Where's Hess?' said Robert, asking at once
after his sister.

'She is engaged, Robert,' said Mrs. Bolton, very seriously, and very firmly.

'She gave me a commission about some silk, and Margaret says that it can't be executed in Cambridge.
She must write to Fanny.' Margaret was Mrs. Robert Bolton, and Fanny was the wife of the barrister
brother who lived in London.

'I will tell her, Robert.'

'All the same I should have liked to have seen her.'

'She is engaged, Robert.' This was said almost more seriously and more firmly than before.

'Well, Caldigate,' said the attorney, turning to the visitor, 'so you are the one man who has
not only gone to the gold country and found gold, but has brought his gold home with him.'

'I have brought a little home;--but I hope others have done so before.'

'I have never heard of any. You seem to have been uncommonly lucky. Hard work, wasn't it?'

'Hard enough at first.'

'And a good deal of chance?'

'If a man will work steadily, and has backbone enough to stand up against reverses without
consoling himself with drink; and if, when the gold comes, he can refrain from throwing it
about as though it were endless, I think a man may be tolerably sure to earn something.' Then
he told the story of the horse with the golden shoes.

'Shoes of gold upon a horse!' said Mrs. Bolton, holding up both her hands. The man who could
even tell such a story must be an adventurer. But, nevertheless the story had interested her
so that she had been enticed into taking some part in the conversation.

When Caldigate got up to take his leave, Robert Bolton offered to walk back to the town with
him. He had expected to find his father, but would now look for him at the bank. They started
together; and as they went Caldigate told his story to the young lady's half-brother. It occurred
to him that of all the family Robert Bolton would be the most reasonable in such a matter;
and that of all the family he might perhaps be the best able to give assistance. When Robert
Bolton had heard it all, at first he whistled. Then he asked the following question. 'What
did she say to you?'

'She did not give me much encouragement.'

'I should think not. Though I say it who shouldn't, Hester is the sweetest girl in Cambridgeshire.
But her mother thinks her much too good to be given in marriage to any man. This kind of thing
was bound to come about some day.'

'But Mrs. Bolton seems to have some personal objection to me.'

'That's probable.'

'I don't know why she should.'

'She has got one treasure of her own, in enjoying which she is shut out from all the rest of
the world. Is it unnatural that she should be a little suspicious about a man who proposes
to take her treasure away from her?'

'She must surrender her treasure to some one,--some day.'

'If it be so, she will hope to do so to a man of whose antecedents she may know more than she
does of yours. What she does know of you is of a nature to frighten her. You will excuse me.'

'Oh, of course.'

'She has heard that you went away under a cloud, having surrendered your estate. That was against
you. Well;--you have come back, and she hears that you have brought some money with you. She
does not care very much about money; but she does care about regularity and fixed habits. If
Hess is to be married at all she would especially wish that her husband should be a religious
man. Perhaps you are.'

'I am neither the one thing nor the other,--especially.'

'And therefore peculiarly dangerous in her eyes It is natural that she should oppose you.'

'What am I to do, then?'

'Ah! How am I to answer that? The whole story is very romantic, and I do not know that we are
a romantic family. My father is autocratic in his own house.'

This last assurance seemed to contain some comfort As Mrs. Bolton would be his enemy in the
matter, it was well that the power of deciding should be in other hands. 'I do not mean to
give it up,' said he.

'I suppose you must if they won't open their doors to you.'

'I think they ought to allow me to have the chance of seeing her.'

'I don't see why they should. Mind I am not saying anything of this for myself. If I were my
sister's guardian, I should take the trouble to make many inquiries before I either asked you
into my house or declined to do so. I should not give access to you, or to any other gentleman
merely because he asked it.'

'Let them make inquiry.'

'Mrs. Bolton probably thinks that she already knows enough. What my father may say I cannot
even surmise.'

'Will you tell him?'

'If you wish it.'

'Tell him also that I will wait upon him at once if he desires it. He shall know everything
about my affairs,--which indeed require no concealment. I can settle enough upon her for her
comfort. If she is to have anything of her own, that will be over and above. As far as I am
concerned myself, I ask no question about that. I think that a man ought to earn enough for
himself and for his wife too. As to religion----'

'If I were you, I would leave that alone,' said the lawyer.

'Perhaps so.'

'I will tell my father. This
is understandably a huge burden of the authorities - and not Only our - the result, and at
bottom is the "victim is always the people.

Politically, particularly the disenfranchisement of the population jumps to the eyes. Certain, not
always sufficiently clear-cut rules providing for their basic rights
while some self-evident, of which, significantly, embodied the right
of free passage is the clearest. But he thought that the brother had been quite as favourable
to him as he could have expected, and the ice was broken. The Bolton family generally would
know what he was about. Hester would not be told, of course;--at any rate, not at once. But
the first steps had been taken, and it must be for him now so to press the matter that the
ultimate decision should be made to rest in her hands as soon as possible.

'What did Mr. Bolton say to you?' asked the squire.

'I did not see him.'

'And what did the young lady say?'

'I did not see her.'

'Or the mamma?'

'I did see her, and told her my project.'

'I should think she would be startled?'

'She was not very propitious, sir; but that was not to be expected.'

'She is a poor melancholy half-crazed creature, I take it,' said the squire; 'at least, that
is what I hear. The girl, I should think, would be glad to get away from such a home. But I
am afraid you will find a good many obstacles.' After that nothing more was said about the
matter at Folking for some days.

But there was a great deal said upon the matter both in Cambridge and at Chesterton. Robert
Bolton found his father at the bank on the same afternoon, and performed his promise. 'Did
he see your step-mother?' asked the old man.

'Oh yes; and as far as I can understand, did not receive very much favour at her hands.'

'But he did not see Hester?'

'Certainly not to-day.'

Then the old man looked up into his son's face, as though seeking some expression there from
which he might take some counsel. His own nature had ever been imperious; but he was old now,
and, in certain difficulties which environed him, he was apt to lean on his son Robert. It
was Robert who encouraged him still to keep in his hands some share of the management of the
bank; and it was to Robert that he could look for counsel when the ceremonious strictness of
his wife at home became almost too hard even for him.

'It is natural to suppose that Hester should be married some day,' said the lawyer.

'Her mother will never wish it.'

'She will never wish it at any given moment, but she would probably assent to the proposition
generally. Why not Hester as well as another girl? It is the happiest life for women.'

'I am not sure. The Duke shook.

"The Bourbon."

"God pollute the pale traitors!" shouted Sforza. "What is he doing here?"

"He will even tell you. Hark! It ringing vespers in the cathedral."

"Receiving you see him, Chancellor!" implored the Duke and wanted to escape through a door. Morone
but he was seized by the arm and led him back to his chair.

"I ask, Your Highness! It is over. When the Constable occurs to raise the sovereignty and
receive it standing. The shortens. "He clothed with his Lord on the chair hung-coat, and this
gradually took to combat his fear of a royal attitude, by his charming Grew up and claimed the
natural decency he had.

Meanwhile, the chancellor looked through the window that the Palace Square and behind it the
outline of the newly planted ramparts of the fort was. "Delicious!"
he said.

"Since is this true-hearted Constable, ten steps ahead of his followers, and features ease
our new jump in his pocket. I will go and introduce him.

"

Since he came to Morone, the famous traitor, a lean, tall figure and a proud, colorless head with fine
features and striking dark eyes, a weird but great Appearance, he bowed politely to Francesco
Sforza, who shyly looked.

"Highness," said Charles Bourbon, "I testify my respect guilty and ask for hearing for a message of His
Imperial Majesty. "

Duke Franz replied with dignity that he was prepared to the will of its exalted feudal lord
awesome to hear staggered, and then slipped back into his chair.

When the constable saw the Duke to sit down, he too looked for a chair or at least according to
a stool. Nothing like that was available and no page at present. Since He threw his precious
jacket to the Duke against the marble floor and pitched smooth, the left arm resting, putting in
the right hip.

"Allow sovereignty," he said.

Karl Bourbon lived since his betrayal in a scorching and consuming atmosphere of self-hatred.
Nobody, even the most distinguished have not dared to even the proud man with an air to remember
his actions and let him guess the verdict, which public opinion his
century had taken unanimously and with unusual hardship on him, but
he knew this severe sentence, and his conscience is confirmed.

The most thorough contempt for human beings he did, beginning with himself, contrary to the whole
world, but he controlled himself completely and no one acted and
spoke perfect free colorless, all mockery, irony, even the slightest
allusion to, and hence the other under meaningless. Rarely told how
a suddenly jerking out of the ground fire, a hell of a cynical joke
or fun the state his soul.

After a while the Constable minded, he
began with a pleasant voice and a slight Turn of the head: "I ask
sovereignty, to pay for me to leave my mission was unwelcome might
have for you. Myself completely back centering, I provide a territorial
Decision of the Imperial Majesty, which has taken the same in their
Ministers, however, after hearing of her three Italian commander,
Pescara, Leyva and my allegiance. "

"How is Pescara? asked the Chancellor,
who at the same distance from the two jurisdictions stood, bold in
between.

Chapter XIX

Men Are So Wicked

A month had passed by since Caldigate's interview with Mrs. Bolton, and nothing had as yet
been decided either for him or against him at Chesterton And the fact that no absolute decision
had been made against him may be taken as having been very much in his favour. But of those
who doubted, and doubting, had come to no decision, Mrs. Bolton herself was by no means one.
She was as firm as ever in her intention that the idea should not even be suggested to her
daughter. Nor, up to this time, had our hero's name been even mentioned to Hester Bolton.

About a week after Caldigate's visit to Chesterton in the early days of August, he wrote to
Robert Bolton saying that he was going into Scotland for a month, and that he trusted that
during that time his proposition might be considered. On his return he would take the liberty
of calling on Mr. Bolton at the bank. In the meantime he hoped that inquiries might be made
as to his position in the world, and in order that such inquiries might be effectual he gave
a reference to his man of business in London. To this letter Robert Bolton sent no answer;
but he went up to London, and did make the inquiries as suggested, and consulted his brother
the barrister, and his sister-in-law the barrister's wife. They were both of opinion that John
Caldigate was behaving well, and were of opinion also that something should be done to liberate
Hester from the thraldom of her mother. 'I knew how it would be when she grew up and became
a woman,' said Mrs. William Bolton. 'Nobody will be allowed to see her, and she won't have
a chance of settling herself. When we asked her to come up here for a couple of months in the
season, Mrs. Bolton sent me word that London is a terrible place for young girls,--though,
of course, she knew that our own girls were being brought up here.' Then the ways of Mrs. Bolton
at Chesterton and Hester's future life generally were discussed in a spirit that was by no
means unfriendly to our hero.

The suggested inquiries were made in the city, and were all favourable. Everyone connected
with the mining interests of the Australian colonies knew the name of John Caldigate. All of
that class of people were well aware of his prosperity and confirmed good-fortune. He had brought
with him or sent home nobody quite knew how much money. But it was very well known that he
had left his interest in the Polyeuka mine to be sold for £60,000, and now there had come word
that a company had created itself for the sake of making the purchase, and that the money would
be forthcoming. The gentleman in the city connected with mining matters did not think that
Mr. Caldigate would be called upon to go out to the colony again, unless he chose to do so
for his own pleasure. All this Robert Bolton learned in the City, and he learned also that
the man as to whom he was making inquiry was held in high esteem for honesty, perseverance,
and capacity. The result of all this was that he returned to Cambridge with a feeling that
his sister ought to be allowed to make the man's acquaintance. He and his brother had agreed
that something should be done to liberate their sister from her present condition. Love on
the part of a mother may be as injurious as cruelty, if the mother be both tyrannical and superstitious.
While Hester had been a child, no interference had been possible or perhaps expedient,--but
the time had now come when something ought to be done. Such having been the decision in Harley
Street, where the William Boltons lived, Robert Bolton went back home with the intention of
carrying it out.

This could only be done through the old man, and even with him not without great care. He was
devotedly attached to his young wife;--but was very averse to having it thought that he was
ruled by her. Indeed, in all matters affecting his establishment, his means, and his business,
he would hardly admit of interference from her at all. His worldly matters he kept between
himself and his sons. But in regard to his soul he could not restrain her, and sometimes would
hardly oppose her. The prolonged evening prayers, the sermons twice a-week, the two long church
services on Sundays,--indulgence as to the third being allowed to him only on the score of
his age,--he endured at her command. And in regard to Hester, he had hitherto been ruled by
his wife, thinking it proper that a daughter should be left in the hands of her mother. But
now, when he was told that if he did not interfere, his girl would be constrained by the harsh
bonds of an unnatural life, stern as he was himself and inclined to be gloomy, little as he
was disposed to admit ideas of recreation and delight, he did acknowledge that something should
be done to relieve her. 'But when I die she must be left in her mother's hands,' said the old
banker.

'It is to be hoped that she may be in other hands before that,' replied his son. 'I do not
mean to say anything against my step-mother;--but for a young woman it is generally best that
she should be married. And in Hester's peculiar position, she ought to have the chance of choosing
for herself.'

In this way something almost like a conspiracy was made on behalf of Caldigate. And yet the
old man did not as yet abandon his prejudices against the miner. A man who had at so early
an age done so much to ruin himself, and had then sprung so suddenly from ruin to prosperity,
could not, he thought, be regarded as a steady well-to-do man of business. He did agree that,
as regarded Hester, the prison-bars should be removed; but he did not think that she should
be invited to walk forth with Mr. John Caldigate. Robert declared that his sister was quite
able to form an opinion of her own, and boldly suggested that Hester should be allowed to come
and dine at his house. 'To meet the man?' asked the banker in dismay. 'Yes,' said Robert. 'He
isn't an ogre. You needn't be afraid of him. I shall be there,--and Margaret. Bring her yourself
if you are afraid of anything. No plant ever becomes strong by being kept always away from
the winds of heaven.' To this he could not assent at the time. He knew that it was impossible
to assent without consulting his wife. But he was brought so far round as to think that if
nothing but his own consent were wanting, his girl would be allowed to go and meet the ogre.

'I suppose we ought to wish that Hester should be married some day,' he said to his wife about
this time. She shuddered and dashed her hands together as though deprecating some evil,--some
event which she could hardly hope to avoid but which was certainly an evil. 'Do you not wish
that yourself?' She shook her head. 'Is it not the safest condition in which a woman can live?'

'How shall any one be safe among the dangers of this world, Nicholas?' She habitually called
her husband by his Christian name, but she was the only living being who did so.

'More safe then?' said he. 'It is the natural condition of a woman.'

'I do not know. Sin is natural.'

'Very likely. No doubt. But marriage is not sinful.'

'Men are so wicked.'

'Some of them are.'

'Where is there one that is not steeped in sin over his head?'

'That applies to women also; doesn't it?' said the banker petulantly. He was almost angry because
she was introducing a commonplace as to the world's condition into a particular argument as
to their daughter's future life,--which he felt to be unfair and illogical.

'Of course it does, Nicholas. We are all black and grimed with sin, men and women too; and
perhaps something more may be forgiven to men because they have to go out into the world and
do their work. But neither one nor the other can be anything but foul with sin;--except,--except--'

He was quite accustomed to the religious truth which was coming, and, in an ordinary way, did
not object to the doctrine which she was apt to preach to him often. But it had no reference
whatever to the matter now under discussion. The general condition of things produced by the
fall of Adam could not be used as an argument against matrimony generally. Wicked as men and
women are it is so evidently intended that they should marry and multiply, that even she would
not deny the general propriety of such an arrangement. Therefore when he was talking to her
about their daughter, she was ill-treating him when on that occasion she flew away to her much-accustomed
discourse.

'What's the use, then, of saying that men are wicked?'

'They are. They are!'

'Not a doubt about it. And so are the women, but they've got to have husbands and wives. They
wouldn't be any the better if there were no marrying. We have to suppose that Hester will do
the same as other girls.'

'I hope not, Nicholas.'

'But why not?'

'They are vain, and they adorn themselves, not in modest apparel, as St. Paul says in First
Timothy, chapter second, nor with shame-facedness and sobriety; but with braided hair and gold
and pearls and costly array.'

'What has that to do with it?'

'Oh, Nicholas!'

'She might be married without all those things.'

'You said you wanted her to be like other girls.'

'No, I didn't. I said she would have to get married like other girls. You don't want to make
a nun of her.'

'A nun! I would sooner sit by her bedside and watch her die! My Hester a nun!'

'Very well, then. Let her go out into the world----'

'The world, Nicholas! The world, the flesh, and the devil! Do they not always go together?'

He was much harassed and very angry. He knew how unreasonable she was, and yet he did not know
how to answer her. And she was dishonest with him. Because she felt herself unable to advocate
in plain terms a thorough shutting up of her daughter,--a protecting of her from the temptation
of sin by absolute and prolonged sequestration,--therefore she equivocated with him, pretending
to think that he was desirous of sending his girl out to have her hair braided and herself
arrayed in gold and pearls. It was thoroughly dishonest, and he understood the dishonesty.
'She must go somewhere,' he said, rising from his chair and closing the conversation. At this
time a month had passed since Caldigate had been at Chesterton, and he had now returned from
Scotland to Folking.

On the following day Hester was taken out to dinner at The Nurseries, as Robert Bolton's house
was called,--was taken out by her father. This was quite a new experiment, as she had never
dined with any of her aunts and cousins except at an early dinner almost as a child,--and even
as a child not at her brother Robert's. But the banker, after having declared that she must
go somewhere, had persisted. It is not to be supposed that Caldigate was on this occasion invited
to meet her;--nor that the father had as yet agreed that any such meeting should be allowed.
But as William Bolton,--the London brother,--and Mrs. William and one of their girls were down
at Cambridge, it was arranged that Hester should meet her relatives. Even so much as this was
not settled without much opposition on the part of Hester's mother.

There was nobody at the house but members of the family. The old banker's oldest son Nicholas
was not there as his wife and Mrs. Robert did not get on well together. Mrs. Nicholas was almost
as strict as Mrs. Bolton herself, and, having no children of her own, would not have sympathised
at all in any desire to procure for Hester the wicked luxury of a lover. The second son Daniel
joined the party with his wife, but he had married too late to have grown-up children. His
wife was strict too,--but of a medium strictness. Teas, concerts, and occasional dinner parties
were with her permissible;--as were also ribbons and a certain amount of costly array. Mrs.
Nicholas was in the habit of telling Mrs. Daniel that you cannot touch pitch and not be defiled,--generally
intending to imply that Mrs. Robert was the pitch; and would harp on the impossibility of serving
both God and mammon, thinking perhaps that her brother-in-law Robert and mammon were one and
the same. But Daniel, who could go to church as often as any man on Sundays, and had thoroughly
acquired for himself the reputation of a religious man of business, had his own ideas as to
proprieties and expediencies, and would neither quarrel with his brother Robert, or allow his
wife to quarrel with Mrs. Robert. So that the Nicholases lived very much alone. Mrs. Nicholas
and Mrs. Bolton might have suited each other, might have been congenial and a comfort each
to the other, but the elder son and the elder son's wife had endeavoured to prevent the old
man's second marriage, and there had never been a thorough reconciliation since. There are
people who can never forgive. Mrs. Nicholas had never forgiven the young girl for marrying
the old man, and the young girl had never forgiven the opposition of her elder step-daughter-in-law
to her own marriage. Hence it had come to pass that the Nicholases were extruded from the family
conclaves, which generally consisted of the Daniels and the Roberts. The Williams were away
in London, not often having much to do with these matters. But they too allied themselves with
the dominant party, it being quite understood that as long as the old man lived Robert was
and would be the most potent member of the family.

When the father and the three sons were in the dining-room together, after the six or seven
ladies had left them, the propriety of allowing John Caldigate to make Hester's acquaintance
was fully discussed. 'I would not for the world interfere,' said Robert, 'if I did not think
it unfair to the dear girl that she should be shut up there altogether.'

'Do you suppose that the young man is in earnest?' asked Daniel.

As to this they all agreed that there could be no doubt. He was, too, an old family friend,
well-to-do in the world, able to make proper settlements, and not at all greedy as to a fortune
with his wife. Even Daniel Bolton thought that the young man should have a chance,--by saying
which he was supposed to declare that the question ought to be left to the arbitrament of the
young lady. The old banker was unhappy and ill at ease. He could not reconcile himself at once
to so great a change. Though he felt that the excessive fears of his wife, if indulged, would
be prejudicial to their girl, still he did not wish to thrust her out into the world all at
once. Could there not be some middle course? Could there not be a day named, some four years
hence, at which she might be allowed to begin to judge for herself? But his three sons were
against him, and he could not resist their joint influence. It was therefore absolutely decided
that steps should be taken for enabling John Caldigate to meet Hester at Robert Bolton's house.

'I suppose it will end in a marriage,' William Bolton said to his brother Robert when they
were alone.

'Of course it will. She is the dearest creature in the world;--so good to her mother; but no
fool, and quite aware that the kind of restraint to which she has been subjected is an injustice.
Of course she will be gratified when a man like that tells her that he loves her. He is a good-looking
fellow, with a fine spirit and plenty of means. How on earth can she do better?'

'But Mrs. B.?' said William, who would sometimes thus disrespectfully allude to his step-mother.

'Mrs. B. will do all she can to prevent it,' said Robert; 'but I think we shall find that Hester
has a will of her own.'

On the following day John Caldigate called at the bank, where the banker had a small wainscoted
back-parlour appropriated to himself. He had already promised that he would see the young man,
and Caldigate was shown into the little room. He soon told his story, and was soon clever enough
to perceive that the telling of his story was at any rate permitted. The old father did not
receive him with astonishment and displeasure combined, as the young mother had done. Of course
he made difficulties, and spoke of the thing as being beyond the bounds of probability. But
objection no stronger than that may be taken as amounting almost to encouragement in such circumstances.
And he paid evident attention to all that Caldigate said about his own pecuniary affairs,--going
so far as to say that he was not in a condition to declare whether he would give his daughter
any fortune at all on her marriage.

'It is quite unnecessary,' said Caldigate.

'She will probably have something at my death,' rejoined the old man.

'And when may I see her?' asked Caldigate.

In answer to that Mr. Bolton would not at first make any suggestion whatsoever,--falling back
upon his old fears, and declaring that there could be no such meetings at all, but at last
allowing that the lover should discuss the matter with his son Robert.

'Perhaps I may have been mistaken about the young man Caldigate,' the banker said to his wife
that night.

'Oh, Nicholas!'

'I only say that perhaps I may have been mistaken.'

'You are not thinking of Hester?'

'I said nothing about Hester then;--but perhaps I may have been mistaken in my opinion about
that young man John Caldigate.'

John Caldigate, as he rode home after his interview at the bank, almost felt that he had cleared
away many difficulties, and that, by his perseverance, he might probably be enabled to carry
out the dream of his earlier youth.

Chapter XX

Hester's Courage

After that Caldigate did not allow the grass to grow under his feet, and before the end of
November the two young people were engaged. As Robert Bolton had said, Hester was of course
flattered and of course delighted with this new joy. John Caldigate was just the man to recommend
himself to such a girl, not too light, not too prone to pleasure, not contenting himself with
bicycles, cricket matches, or billiards, and yet not wholly given to serious matters as had
been those among whom she had hitherto passed her days. And he was one who could speak of his
love with soft winning words, neither roughly nor yet with too much of shame-faced diffidence.
And when he told her how he had sworn to himself after seeing her that once,--that once when
all before him in life was enveloped in doubt and difficulty,--that he would come home and
make her his wife, she thought that the manly constancy of his heart was almost divine. Of
course she loved him with all her heart. He was in all respects one made to be loved by a woman;--and
then what else had she ever had to love? When once it was arranged that he should be allowed
to speak to her, the thing was done. She did not at once tell him that it was done. She took
some few short halcyon weeks to dally with the vow which her heart was ready to make; but those
around her knew that the vow had been inwardly made; and those who were anxious on her behalf
with a new anxiety, with a new responsibility, redoubled their inquiries as to John Caldigate.
How would Robert Bolton or Mrs. Robert excuse themselves to that frightened miserable mother
if at last it should turn out that John Caldigate was not such as they had represented him to be?

But no one could pick a hole in him although many attempts to pick holes were made. The question
of his money was put quite at rest by the transference of all his securities, balances, and
documents to the Boltons' bank, and the £60,000 for Polyeuka was accepted, so that there was
no longer any need that he should go again to the colony. This was sweet news to Hester when
she first heard it;--for it had come to pass that it had been agreed that the marriage should
be postponed till his return, that having been the one concession made to Mrs. Bolton. There
had been many arguments about it;--but Hester at last told him that she had promised so much
to her mother and that she would of course keep her promise. Then the arrangement took such
a form that the journey was not necessary,--or perhaps the objection to the journey became
so strong in Caldigate's mind that he determined to dispense with it at any price. And thus,
very greatly to the dismay of Mrs. Bolton, suddenly there came to be no reason why they should
not be married almost at once.

But there was an attempt made at the picking of holes,--or rather many attempts. It would be
unfair to say that this was carried on by Mrs. Bolton herself;--but she was always ready to
listen to what evil things were said to her. Mrs. Nicholas, in her horror at the general wickedness
of the Caldigates almost reconciled herself to her step-mother, and even Mrs. Daniel began
to fear that a rash thing was being done. In the first place there was the old story of Davis
and Newmarket. Robert Bolton, who had necessarily become the advocate and defender of our hero
generally, did not care much for Davis and Newmarket. All young men sow their wild oats. Of
course he had been extravagant. Since his extravagance he had shown himself to be an industrious,
sensible, steady member of society;--and there was the money that he had earned! What young
man had earned more in a shorter time, or had ever been more prudent in keeping it? Davis and
Newmarket were easily answered by a reference to the bank account. Did he ever go to Newmarket
now, though he was living so close to it? On that matter Robert Bolton was very strong.

But Mrs. Nicholas had found out that Caldigate had spent certainly two Sundays running at Folking
without going to church at all; and, as far as she could learn, he was altogether indifferent
about public worship. Mrs. Bolton, who could never bring herself to treat him as a son-in-law,
but who was still obliged to receive him, taxed him to his face with his paganism. 'Have you
no religion, Mr. Caldigate?' He assured her that he had, and fell into a long discussion in
which he thoroughly confused her, though he by no means convinced her that he was what he ought
to be. But he went with her to church twice on one Sunday, and showed her that he was perfectly
familiar with the ways of the place.

But perhaps the loudest complaint came from the side of Babington; and here two sets of enemies
joined their forces together who were thoroughly hostile to each other. The effect also extended to us, and it showed
itself first in a flurry of notes that by the Inter-Allied Military commissions rained down on us.
I can count that as we in the course two months of 100 notes of these commissions were given for
response. You can Think that it is almost equivalent to a paralysis of the authorities when
they are forced to day and night to work on the answers to these documents. Of the last Mr
Speaker has pointed to the very unpleasant developments that the demarcation has experienced
the Vistula area in recent times. We have not failed, not only the Conference of Ambassadors, but
all the powers separately to point out that this is a heavy Wrong in the course, and it was
at least achieved that the ambassadors' conference initially its decision has been postponed.

Something tragic is that the currently strongest military power in
the world that France is determined in all his actions and deeds by
the fear of a German attack; from an attack of a completely disarmed
country which barely muster as many soldiers, to maintain his inner
peace.

It is highly regrettable that by this thought France's treatment of European problems each side gets
political.

Especially on a those areas with which the notes of the last time intensively employ, came out this
political tendency in unfortunate ways. I'm talking about those notes,
referring to our police.

It is quite understandable if in a regular, with a strong military power provided the land, if in
a country with unimpaired state authority is a police system is represented on the municipal
pure, local organization is based. For Germany, such a scheme is not feasible. We live in a
time of transition, the most serious disruption of our economic relations. We live in a time
of severely curbed under the surface of the powers of the restlessness move. We live in a country
with a weakened government authority, and we are therefore dependent, safeguard peace in the
country. This is only possible if an effective Police violence in the country exists.

Under such auspices of the external and the overall policy is the grade of the Reparation grow
up. Criticism of the note has practiced yesterday, the Lord Chancellor, and I have this Criticism
does not add a word.

But to understand the conditions and trends more clearly, to which the note is based, it is necessary
that we are in a strange circle of ideas to allow for and highlight some mistakes this circle of
ideas.

The first mistake, which must be addressed is the exaggerated idea
of ​​foreign countries of the concept of inflation and its effects.

Time and again we encounter the idea that that if our money value is on the rocks, which can be attributed
only to the music printing. The recipe, however, that we are given is: stop your printing money, bring
your budget in line, and the misfortune is fixed! A serious economic mistake! For a country with
an active balance of payments by the recovery of money is possible that it operates deflationary
policy, establishes the balance of the budget and the printing press stops. The situation is
different but for a country with a passive balance of payments. I urge all who knew of economic
life on me to propose a way by which a country with a passive balance of payments is possible to
make gold payments permanently without the help of foreign loans, while its Currency to keep intact.
Never attempt has been made to provide such a recipe, and it can not be given. For it is not a country
that produces gold, gold can not To pay unless it buys this gold by export surpluses, or that
his gold is borrowed.

The cycle of destruction of our currency is the following: adverse balance of payments, as a result
the need to sell our cash abroad or auszubieten, thereby Depreciation
of the goods be offered, sold the cash; thereby damage the value of
money abroad, injury of the Currency.

Another consequence of rising prices within the country, rising all material costs for all personnel
costs. Another consequence: the gaping budget, for A budget does not include any other costs
than on objective and personal, and if these two free-of-rise, so is every budget, and it may previously
have so much in been keeping his deranged.

Who the proof of the correctness of this view still needs the it should be noted as is actually
worth our money overseas for a time completely stable Ganges Next inflation has moved. We have
this strong response in the autumn of last year, a Dollar exchange
rate experienced by 300, he had reduced to about 160 in December,
he is again risen to 350, and all that were not related either with
the pressure of the printing press even with the progress of inflation.

A

second mistake of the foreign view of our ability to pay I have to . Mention It concerns the question
of our tax burden. We are of the Reparations and the conference in Cannes passed the material that
provided evidence that Germany charged today with heavier taxes than other countries. By either
side is an attempt been made to rebut the bills. There was recognition that the calculations
very are difficult that it requires serious theoretical disputes and non-mechanical Comparisons of
numbers that are translated into dollars.

But the attempt to refute has not been made. The simplest example can indeed not be refuted.
When in Germany the income of the highest state officials is 300 or 500 dollars, so that State
officials not more than 300 or 500 dollars to pay taxes. This includes but by no means that a government
official of another country who earns 3,000 or 5,000 dollars, well may pay more in taxes than
the entire revenue for the German state officials.

A third error that was mentioned by the Honourable Member Stresemann, is that holds up to us:
your economy is fully employed, you have no unemployment, with you smokes every chimney, with you all
the machines running at full steam, and where does this leave the product this work? This product
must still be present, it must serve to the German capital substance to accumulate, and this
product must be tangible for reparations. The answer to this Question I have been in Cannes,
and I'll do it again here with greater clarity.

The reparations that we have paid in recent years, amounted to a half billion Goldmark. This
half billion gold marks, no more and no less than the mean Annual output of one million German workers.
We have, as you know, by the decline our agriculture a considerable import of food needed. These imports amounted
in recent years to 2 billion gold marks, and it means once the work force a whole year of
a million Germans. Our foreign ownership, we have lost the assets
and investments, the territories overseas.

The revenue from these possessions be well over one billion gold, and that revenue turned into an
influx of raw materials and goods for which we do not need to exchange values. If today these
raw materials and goods we need to procure by purchase, so we have to make this work, and it is again
the work of a million Germans needed to pay the equivalent value. We thus arrive at the statement
that three million German present year after year have to work to restore some measure to those
who stand to us before the war without the work was allotted. It is therefore as three million
people work kompensationslos consumed, which means of course a state of high employment of Country,
but not of productive employment.

A fourth mistake has mentioned Mr. Stresemann, which I supplement with a few words would like.
It will be held against us from abroad: your industry is flourishing, your Companies pay high
dividends, they emit new capital, they create so great new inner values. Again, this conclusion
is wrong. For if the example of a company take of 100 million share capital and assume that
this society even 20 percent Dividend paid, it has the gold value of its share capital not more
than ¼ percent paid. The fact remains, however, not considered to be at least to their stand
on machines and maintain facilities to make an annual reserve of
gold would have to, to Converted paper, a multiple of the share capital
accounts.

Thus, if such a company even 20 per cent dividend pay, then you are missing every year, maybe
200, maybe 300, perhaps 500 percent of its share capital to the most essential provisions.

I mentioned the economic fallacies that one explanation for the atmosphere form, was created within
which the Reparationsnote. I may not but at substantial pass dangerous errors that take place
in the political mentality of foreign countries. I mention only two of these errors. One is:
Germany has not paid and will pay nothing. The other is: Germany has not disarmed and will not disarm.

Gentlemen!
I want to read you two statements that I made to this to answer questions. First, Germany has
not paid and will pay nothing. It is difficult to establish precise estimates for those services which
Germany has given in the past since the end of the war. But even if the estimates may not be
exact to the last decimal places do need, they give a clear and irrefutable
global view of all the German power.

I mention the following items: The German property abroad liquidated has a value of 11.7 billion, the
fleet has passed a value of 5.7 billion, the kingdom of property in the ceded territories amounted
to 6.5 billion marks, on specified rail and Transport equipment amounted
to 2 billion gold marks - everything (the right call all the gold
market?) Gold Mark! - Return to assets non-military nature 5.8 billion
gold marks, the loss German demands for its war allies is 7 billion
gold marks.

The value of the Saar mines is estimated by us to 1.1 million gold marks. The coal supply,
we have made, calculated at world market prices, amounted to 1.3 billion gold marks. Cash
payments for reparations have been known to 1.3 billion gold marks. A number of smaller items
- small, even though they run into the billions - I am going to be throughout the 3.2 billion mark.
We thus come to a total sum of German contributions since the war of 45.6 billion gold marks. - This
is the value of the colonies and the pure Economic value of the assigned
Upper Silesia and West Prussia in areas not approach brought.

Are added to the average estimates, so this sum increased to well 100 billion gold marks.

I have to say to foreign countries, characterized by a strong propaganda today is still the opinion
gets to hear that Germany had paid nothing, and Germany would pay nothing. It is the largest payment
made by Germany assumed the ever by a people of the earth been made to other nations.

The other claim is: Germany has not disarmed and would not disarm. Again, I'll give you a series of
numbers and ask to bear in mind that These estimates do not express the full disarmament of Germany,
that it is not power Army include reduction and that they do not include the loss of our fortresses.
There are been delivered, among others, rifles and carbines 5.8 million machine guns 102 000, to
mortars and grenade launchers, 28 000, of guns and tubes 53 000, in sharp Artillery shells and
mines 31 million, to live hand-guns and throwing grenades 14 Millions of detonators 56 million
to 390 million small arms ammunition and powder 31 900 000 kilos. In contrast, the claim is measured,
that Germany is not to disarm have done. The German disarmament is an achievement of unprecedented
size, and it is not true if you claim that some weapons discoveries
that have been made in Germany, alter this picture, something essential.

Even in 100 years is probably somewhere found in German soil buried weapons, just as good as you still
Roman coins or by Lombard swords in the ground. A 100 percent performance on the field It is
a great action, and if this remained a fraction of a percent may be, is no reason to exaggerate
the facts in the form of discovery.

No thinking person in the world can accept that Germany with what weapons to him or left of
warriors, it can lead to war. Every person who now familiar with the technical nature of a war,
know that a modern war can not lead is the remains of weapons, that he is not at all out with existing
equipment, but that it can only be done by changing the whole quality of a Industria Country.
This change, however, is not possible in Germany, which means that all efforts vain, which would
amount to bring about German military strength of the evidence by that for a half or a quarter
of a percentage of the German arms may not be delivered.

By this I do not speak the hidden weapons but the word. I think it is deeply regrettable that the
kingdom has been put at risk by such persons, have hidden the weapons with some vague and confused
intentions, without having to make it clear that we suspended again by the complaints commission
and serious political confusion be. The national government will and must do everything to those
commitments that they has taken to implement and it should you fall while no one in the arm.

The
disarmament of Germany I call perfect, and I call all the more than perfect, as it took place
in a Europe that is bristling with weapons. The planned disarmament of the world what she has
done? It has led to the present in Europe, not 3.7 million soldiers under arms are, as before
the war, but 4.7 Million. In this world bristling with weapons, you can by an armed and war-ready
Germany do not speak, if you honestly look at the situation.

But, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to express once: if Germany this has made tremendous
achievements, the achievements of its payments on the one hand, the Achievements of its disarmament
on the other hand, under which physical and moral Germany has done these conditions, two great
acts. Went the half-starved Country from the worst out of all wars, but not only from war but
from a Blockade, which had not yet extended nearly a year of war
has concluded.

In this State of the people walked through a revolution and a series of economic crises, which is still
not finished today. A devaluation came in, which, as Mr. Stresemann performed with moving words,
has the middle class, broke the redeployment of Levels has brought about, as they can not be
considered unfortunate, the misery and deprivation In all layers of the people and brought in almost
every family. The intelligence of the country, our cultural values ​​are in severe danger and
distress. The chancellor has described as it is hardly possible to
obtain the necessities of health care institutions.

The science is in danger. Thousands have had to interrupt their studies, have turned to other
professions. The change of occupation in Germany, the impoverishment of the intellectual strata
has the cultural power of our people back years.

At the same time added to the country that achieved the benefits of which I spoke, the performance
of the payment and the disarmament, a pressure weighed, which to
this day is not resolved, the heavy pressure of the emotional feeling,
the pain of lost homes, the pressure of the occupation army in the
east and west, the pressure of sanctions, the three of us have deprived
cities in the peace, the pressure of commissions to travel in the
land and intervene in all our relationships.

This heavy pressure has weighed on the people next the economic and next to the social, while
it accomplished for the services I have mentioned. I do not think it is unfair to ask if ever
a people in historical periods in the peace of a harder sample has been subjected. But how has
Germany is the fair attitude towards yourself? In this time of severe Not, the most serious concern,
the strongest moral and physical exertion, Germany been the country that has received European
civilization, for Germany would in this fall time can the will to order and discipline, we
would have Germany at this time can slide into revolution, there would be no more for the
European civilization, a rescue grow up. We ask for what we have done, and no recognition from
the outside no thanks, but we may expect and demand that the world finally decides, German
conditions to see the way they are. It is necessary that in the foreign countries those voices penetrate
- and I may even bring the mine - which claim and prove that deserve the services of Germany, the
respect of the world.

Where our heaviest misfortunes, is spring, as I believe the sources of our Hope that flow unfortunately
still scarce. After all, these things are true that I spoken have, and they are, they have the inevitability
of truth. The truth is a Current, which can not seal in bottles.

There is no doubt that the truth can suppress long time, but finally makes its way around
the earth, and if the Truth the way around the earth takes up, then for us the moment of peace
has come the desire we do.

I return to the Reparationsnote. Your reply has described the chancellor clearly yesterday.
It has decided that the door of negotiations is not closed, for these negotiations we require
that reason alone, to get back to those gold, payable by the Reparations been envisaged are.
We intend to tell the Reparations that under the present conditions of inflation we are a different
payment schedule for Expected in 1922. Guidelines for negotiations with the Reparation but
remain the two expressed by the Registrar: a new development of our tax compromise is not possible
nor is a possible interference in our national and financial sovereignty.

Herr Stresemann has issued the warning, which I intend to keep me, to use those points in the past,
the views within this House have separately. There are serious allegations yesterday against
past politics of the Cabinet were collected. I does not respond, because I have the wish that
We collectively at the future and not separate work from the past.
 'Upon my word, my dear, he has been
very gracious,' said Mrs. Robert, when she saw them. 'I quite envy the girls being married
nowadays, because they get such pretty things.'

'They are very pretty,' said Hester.

'And must have cost, I'm afraid to say how much money.'

'I suppose it means to say that he will love me, and therefore I am so glad to have them!'
But the squire, though he did mean to say that he would love her, did not come to the wedding.
He was, he said, unaccustomed to such things, and hoped that he might be excused.

Therefore, from the Folking side there was no one but John Caldigate himself and John Jones.
Of the Babingtons, of course, there was not one. As long as there was a possibility of success
Mrs. Babington had kept up her remonstrances;--but when there was no longer a possibility she
announced that there was to be an everlasting quarrel between the houses. Babington and Folking
were for the future to know nothing of each other. Caldigate had hoped that though the ladies
would for a time be unforgiving, his uncle and his male cousins would not take up the quarrel.
But aunt Polly was too strong for that; and he was declared to be a viper who had been warmed
in all their bosoms and had then stung them all round. 'If you will nurse a viper in your bosom
of course he will sting you,' said Aunt Polly in a letter which she took the trouble to write
to the squire. In reply to which the squire wrote back thus; 'My dear sister, if you will look
into your dictionary of natural history you will see that vipers have no stings. Yours truly,
D. Caldigate.' This letter was supposed to add much to the already existing offence.

But the marriage ceremony was performed in spite of all this quarrelling, and the mother standing
up in the dark corner of her pew heard her daughter's silver-clear voice as she vowed to devote
herself to her husband. As she heard it, she also devoted herself. When sorrow should come
as sorrow certainly would come, then she would be ready once again to be a mother to her child.
But till that time should come the wife of John Caldigate would be nothing to her.

She was not content with thinking and resolving that it should be so, but she declared her
intention in so many words to her daughter. For poor Hester, though she was proud of her husband,
this was in truth a miserable day. Could she have been induced to separate herself altogether
from her mother on the previous night, or even on that morning, it would have been better,
but there was with her that customary longing for a last word of farewell which has often made
so many of us wretched. And then there was a feeling that, as she was giving herself away in
marriage altogether in opposition to her mother's counsels, on that very account she owed to
her more attached and increased observance. Therefore, she had arranged with her husband that
when she returned from the banquet to prepare herself for her journey, a longer absence than
usual should be allowed to her;--so that she might be taken back to Chesterton, and might thus
see her mother the last after saying farewell to all the others. Then the carriage should return
to The Nurseries and he would be ready to step in, and she need not show herself again, worn
out as she would be with the tears and sobbings which she anticipated.

It all went as it was arranged, but it would have been much better to arrange it otherwise.
The journey to the Grange and back, together with the time spent in the interview, took an
hour,--and the time went very slowly with the marriage guests. There always comes a period
beyond which it is impossible to be festive. When the bride left the room, the bridesmaids
and other ladies went with her. Then the gentlemen who remained hardly knew what to do with
each other. Old Mr. Bolton was not jovial on the occasion, and the four brothers hardly knew
how to find subjects for conversation on such an occasion. The bridegroom felt the hour to
be very long, although he consented to play billiards with the boys; and John Jones, although
he did at last escape and find his way up among the girls, thought that his friend had married
himself into a very sombre family. But all this was pleasant pastime indeed compared with that
which poor Hester endured in her mother's bedroom. 'So it has been done,' said Mrs. Bolton,
sitting in a comfortless little chair, which she was accustomed to use when secluded, with
her Bible, from all the household. She spoke in a voice that might have been fit had a son
of hers been just executed on the gallows.

'Oh, mamma, do not speak of it like that!'

'My darling, my own one; would you have me pretend what I do not feel?' 'Why, yes. Even that
would be better than treatment such as this.' That would have been Hester's reply could she
have spoken her mind; but she could not speak it, and therefore she stood silent. 'I will not
pretend. You and your father have done this thing against my wishes and against my advice.'

'It is I that have done it, mamma.'

'You would not have persevered had he been firm,--as firm as I have been. But he has vacillated,
turning hither and thither, serving God and Mammon. And he has allowed himself to be ruled
by his own son. I will never, never speak to Robert Bolton again.'

'Oh mamma, do not say that.'

'I do say it. I swear it. You shall not touch pitch and not be defiled. If there be pitch on
earth he is pitch. If your eye offend you, pluck it out. He is my step-son, I know; but I will
pluck him out like an eye that has offended. It is he that has robbed me of my child.'

'Am I not still your child?' said Hester, going down on her knees with her hands in her mother's
lap and her eyes turned up to her mother's face.

'No. You are not mine any longer. You are his. You are that man's wife. When he bids you do
that which is evil in the sight of the Lord, you must do it. And he will bid you. You are not
my child now. As days run on and sins grow black I cannot warn you now against the wrath to
come. But though you are not my child, though you are this man's wife, I will pray for you.'

'And for him?'

'I do not know. I cannot say. Who am I that I should venture to pray specially for a stranger?
That His way may be shown to all sinners;--thus will I pray for him. And it will be shown.
Though whether he will walk in it,--who can say that?' So much was true of John Caldigate,
no doubt, and is true of all; but there was a tone in her voice which implied that in regard
to this special sinner there could be very little hope indeed.

'Why should you think that he is bad, mamma?'

'We are all bad. There is no doubt about his being bad. There is not one among us fit to sweep
the lowest step of God's throne. But they who are His people shall be made bright enough to
sit round His feet. May the time come when you, my darling, shall be restored to the fold.'
The poor young wife by this time had acknowledged to herself the mistake she had made in thus
coming to her mother after her marriage. She now was of course in that ecstatic phase of existence
which makes one's own self altogether subordinate to the self of another person. That her husband
should be happy constituted her hope of happiness; that he should be comfortable, her comfort.
If he were thought worthy, that would be her worthiness; or if he were good, that would be
her goodness. And even as to those higher, more distant aspirations, amidst which her mother
was always dwelling, she would take no joy for herself which did not include him. The denunciations
against him which were so plainly included even in her mother's blessings and prayers for herself,
did not frighten her on behalf of the man to whom she had devoted herself. She could see the
fanaticism and fury of her mother's creed. But she could not escape from the curse of the moment.
When that last imprecation was made by the woman, with her hands folded and her eyes turned
up to heaven, Hester could only bury her face on her mother's knees and weep. 'When that time
comes, and I know it will come, you shall return to me, and once more be my child,' said the
mother.

'You do not mean that I shall leave my husband?'

'Who can tell? If you do, and I am living, you shall be my child. Till then we must be apart.
How can it be otherwise? Can I give my cheek to a man to be kissed, and call him my son, when
I think that he has robbed me of my only treasure?'

This was so terrible that the daughter could only hang around her mother's neck, sobbing and
kissing her at the same time, and then go without another word. She was sure of this,--that
if she must lose one or the other, her mother or her husband, then she would lose her mother.
When she returned to The Nurseries, her husband, according to agreement came out to her at
once. She had bidden adieu to all the others; but at the last moment her father put his hand
into the carriage, so that she could take it and kiss it. 'Mamma is so sad,' she said to him;
'go home to her and comfort her.' Of course the old man did go home, but he was aware that
there would for some time be little comfort there either for him or for his wife. He and his
sons had been too powerful for her in arranging the marriage; but now, now that it was done,
nothing could stop her reproaches. He had been made to think it wrong on one side to shut his
girl up, and now from the other side he was being made to think that he had done very wrong
in allowing her to escape.

It had been arranged that they should be driven out of Cambridge to the railway station at
Audley End on their way to London; so that they might avoid the crowd of people who would know
them at the Cambridge station. As soon as they had got away from the door of Robert Bolton's
house, the husband attempted to comfort his young wife. 'At any rate it is over,' he said,
alluding of course to the tedium of their wedding festivities.

'So much is over,' she replied.

'You do not regret anything?'

She shook her head slowly as she leaned lovingly against his shoulder. 'You are not sorry,
Hester, that you have become my wife?'

'I had to be your wife,--because I love you.'

'Is that a sorrow?'

'I had been all my mother's;--and now I am all yours. She has thrown me off because I have
disobeyed her. I hope you will never throw me off.'

'Is it likely?'

'I think not. I know that I shall never throw you off. They have tried to make me believe that
you are not all that you ought to be--in religion. But now your religion shall be my religion,
and your life my life. I shall be of your colour--altogether. But, John, a limb cannot be wrenched
out of a socket, as I have been torn away from my mother, without pain.'

'She will forgive it all when we come back.'

'I fear--I fear. I never knew her to forgive anything yet.' This was very bad; but nevertheless
it was plain to him as it had been plain to Robert and William Bolton, that not because of
the violence of the woman's character should the life of her daughter have been sacrificed
to her. His duty to make her new life bright for her was all the more plain and all the more
sound,--and as they made their first journey together he explained to her how sacred that duty
should always be to him.

Chapter XXII

As To Touching Pitch

Before the wedding old Mr. Caldigate arranged with his son that he would give up to the young
married people the house at Folking, and indeed the entire management of the property. 'I have
made up my mind about it,' said the squire, who at this time was living with his son on happy
terms. 'I have never been adapted for the life of a country gentleman,' he continued, 'though
I have endeavoured to make the best of it, and have in a certain way come to love the old place.
But I don't care about wheat nor yet about bullocks;--and a country house should always have
a mistress.' And so it was settled. Mr. Caldigate took for himself a house in Cambridge, whither
he proposed to remove nothing but himself and his books, and promised to have Folking ready
for his son and his son's bride on their return from their wedding tour. In all this Robert
Bolton and the old squire acted together, the brother thinking that the position would suit
his sister well. But others among the Boltons,--Mrs Daniel, the London people, and even Mrs.
Robert herself,--had thought that the 'young people' had better be further away from the influences
or annoyances of Puritan Grange. Robert, however, had declared that it would be absurd to yield
to the temper, and prejudice, and fury--as he called it--of his father's wife. When this discussion
was going on she had absolutely quarrelled with the attorney, and the attorney had made up
his mind that she should be--ignored. And then, too, as Robert explained, it must be for the
husband and not for the wife to choose where they would live. Folking was, or at any rate would
be, his own, by right of inheritance, and it was not to be thought of that a man should be
driven away from his natural duties and from the enjoyment of his natural privileges by the
mad humours of a fanatic female. In all this old Mr. Bolton was hardly consulted; but there
was no reason why he should express an opinion. He was giving his daughter absolutely no fortune;
nor had he even vouchsafed to declare what money should be coming to her at his death. John
Caldigate had positively refused to say a word on the subject;--had refused even when instigated
to do so by Hester's brother. 'It shall be just as he pleases,' Caldigate had said. 'I told
your father that I was not looking after his daughter with any view to money, and I will be
as good as my word.' Robert had told her father that something should be arranged;--but the
old man had put it off from day to day, and nothing had been arranged. And so it came to pass
that he was excluded almost from having an opinion as to his daughter's future life.

It was understood that the marriage trip should be continued for some months. Caldigate was
fettered by no business that required an early return. He had worked hard for five years, and
felt that he had earned a holiday. And Hester naturally was well disposed to be absent for
as long a time as would suit her husband. Time, and time alone, might perhaps soften her mother's
heart. They went to Italy, and stayed during the winter months in Rome, and then, when the
fine weather came, they returned across the Alps, and lingered about among the playgrounds
of Europe, visiting Switzerland, the Tyrol, and the Pyrenees, and returning home to Cambridgeshire
at the close of the following September.

And then there was a reason for the return. It would be well that the coming heir to the Folking
estate should be born at Folking. Whether an heir, or only an insignificant girl, it would
be well that the child should be born amidst the comforts of home; and so they came back. When
they reached the station at Cambridge the squire was there to receive them, as were also Robert
Bolton and his wife. 'I am already in my new house,' said the old man,--'but I mean to go out
with you for to-day and to-morrow, and just stay till you are comfortably fixed.'

'I never see her myself,' said Robert, in answer to a whispered inquiry from his sister. 'Or
it would be more correct to say she will never see me. But I hear from the others that she
speaks of you constantly.'

'She has written to me of course. But she never mentions John. In writing back I have always
sent his love, and have endeavoured to show that I would not recognise any quarrel.'

'If I were you,' said Robert, 'I would not take him with me when I went.' Then the three Caldigates
were taken off to Folking.

A week passed by and then arrived the day on which it had been arranged that Hester was to
go to Chesterton and see her mother. There had been numerous letters, and at last the matter
was settled between Caldigate and old Mr. Bolton at the bank. 'I think you had better let her
come alone,' the old man had said when Caldigate asked whether he might be allowed to accompany
his wife. 'Mrs. Bolton has not been well since her daughter's marriage and has felt the desolation
of her position very much. She is weak and nervous, and I think you had better let Hester come
alone.' Had Caldigate known his mother-in-law better he would not have suggested a visit from
himself. No one who did know her would have looked forward to see her old hatred eradicated
by an absence of nine months. Hester therefore went into Cambridge alone, and was taken up
to the house by her father. As she entered the iron gates she felt almost as though she were
going into the presence of one who was an enemy to herself. And yet when she saw her mother,
she rushed at once into the poor woman's arms. 'Oh, mamma, dear mamma, dearest mamma! My own,
own, own mamma!'

Mrs. Bolton was sitting by the open window of a small breakfast parlour which looked into the
garden, and had before her on her little table her knitting and a volume of sermons. 'So you
have come back, Hester,' she said after a short pause. She had risen at first to receive her
daughter, and had returned her child's caresses, but had then reseated herself quickly, as
though anxious not to evince any strong feeling on the occasion.

'Yes, mamma, I have come back. We have been so happy!'

'I am glad you have been happy. Such joys are short-lived; but, still--'

'He has been so good to me, mamma!'

Good! What was the meaning of the word good? She doubted the goodness of such goodness as his.
Do not they who are tempted by the pleasures of the world always praise the good-nature and
kindness of them by whom they are tempted? There are meanings to the word good which are so
opposed one to another! 'A husband is, I suppose, generally kind to his wife, at any rate for
a little time,' she said.

'Oh, mamma, I do so wish you knew him!' The woman turned her face round, away from her daughter,
and assumed that look of hard, determined impregnable obstinacy with which Hester had been
well acquainted all her life. But the young wife had come there with a purpose, not strong
perhaps, in actual hope, but resolute even against hope to do her best. There must be an enduring
misery to her unless she could bring her mother into some friendly relation with her husband,
and she had calculated that the softness produced by her return would give a better chance
for this than she might find at any more protracted time. But Mrs. Bolton had also made her
calculations and had come to her determination. She turned her head away therefore, and sat
quite silent, with the old stubborn look of resolved purpose.

'Mamma, you will let him come to you now?'

'No.'

'Not your own Hester's husband?'

'No.'

'Are we to be divided for ever?'

'Did I not tell you before,--when you were going? Shall I lie, and say that I love him? I will
not touch pitch, lest I be defiled.'

'Mamma, he is my husband. You shall not call him pitch. He is my very own. Mamma, mamma!--recall
the word that you have said.'

The woman felt that it had to be recalled in some degree. 'I said nothing of him, Hester. I
call that pitch which I believe to be wrong, and if I swerve but a hair's-breadth wittingly
towards what I believe to be evil, then I shall be touching pitch and then I shall be defiled.
I did not say that he was pitch. Judge not and ye shall not be judged.' But if ever judgment
was pronounced, and a verdict given, and penalties awarded, such was done now in regard to
John Caldigate.

'But, mamma, why will it be doing evil to be gracious to your daughter's husband?'

The woman had an answer to this appeal very clearly set forth in her mind though she was unable
to produce it clearly in words. When the marriage had been first discussed she had opposed
it with all her power, because she had believed the man to be wicked. He was unregenerate;--and
when she had put it to her husband and to the Nicholases and to the Daniels to see whether
such was not the case, they had not contradicted her. It was acknowledged that he was such
a one as Robert,--a worldly man all round. And then he was worse than Robert, having been a
spendthrift, a gambler, and, if the rumours which had reached them were true, given to the
company of loose women. She had striven with all her might that such a one should not be allowed
to take her daughter from her, and had striven in vain. He had succeeded;--but his character
was not changed by his success. Did she not know him to be chaff that must be separated by
the wind from the corn and then consumed in the fire? His character was not altered because
that human being whom she loved the best in all the world had fallen into his power. He was
not the less chaff,--the less likely to be burned. That her daughter should become chaff also,--ah,
there was the agony of it! If instead of taking the husband and wife together she could even
now separate them,--would it not be her duty to do so? Of all duties would it not be the first?
Let the misery here be what it might, what was that to eternal misery or to eternal bliss?
When therefore she was asked whether she would be doing evil were she to be gracious to her
own son-in-law, she was quite, quite sure that any such civility would be a sin. The man was
pitch,--though she had been coerced by the exigencies of a worldly courtesy to deny that she
had intended to say so. He was pitch to her, and she declared to herself that were she to touch
him she would be denied. But she knew not in what language to explain all this. 'What you call
graciousness, Hester, is an obligation of which religion knows nothing,' she said after a pause.

'I don't know why it shouldn't. Are we to be divided, mamma, because of religion?'

'If you were alone----'

'But I am not alone. Oh, mamma, mamma, do you not know that I am going to become a mother?'

'My child!'

'And you will not be with me, because you think that you and John differ as to religious forms.'

'Forms!' she said. 'Forms! Is the spirit there? By their fruits ye shall know them. I ask you
yourself whether his life as you have seen it is such as I should think conformable with the
Word of God?'

'Whose life is so?'

'But an effort may be made. Do not let us palter with each other, Hester! There are the sheep,--and
there are the goats! Of which is he? According to the teaching of your early years, in which
flock would he be found if account were taken now?'

There was something so terrible in this that the young wife who was thus called upon to denounce
her husband separated herself by some steps from her mother, retreating back to a chair in
which she seated herself. 'Do you remember, mamma, the words you said just now? Judge not and
ye shall not be judged.'

'Nor do I judge.'

'And how does it go on? Forgive and ye shall be forgiven.'

'Neither do I judge, nor can I forgive.' This she said, putting all her emphasis on the pronoun,
and thereby declaring her own humility. 'But the great truths of my religion are dear to me.
I will not trust myself in the way of sinners, because by some worldly alliance to which I
myself was no consenting party, I have been brought into worldly contact with them. I at any
rate will be firm. I say to you now no more than I said, ah, so many times, when it was still
possible that my words should not be vain. They were vain. But not on that account am I to
be changed. I will not be wound like a skein of silk round your little finger.' That was it.
Was she to give way in everything because they had been successful among them in carrying out
this marriage in opposition to her judgment? Was she to assent that this man be treated as
a sheep because he had prevailed against her, while she was so well aware that he would still
have been a goat to them all had he not prevailed? She at any rate was sincere. She was consistent.
She would be true to her principles even at the expense of all her natural yearnings. Of what
use to her would be her religious convictions if she were to give them up just because her
heart-strings were torn and agonised? The man was a goat though he were ten times told her
child's husband. So she looked again away into the garden and resolved that she would not yield
in a single point.

'Good-bye, mamma,' said Hester, rising from her chair, and coming up to her mother.

'Good-bye, Hester. God bless you, my child!'

'You will not come to me to Folking?'

'No. I will not go to Folking.'

'I may come to you here?'

'Oh yes;--as often as you will, and for as long as you will.'

'I cannot stay away from home without him, you know,' said the young wife.

'As often as you will, and for as long as you will,' the mother said again, repeating the words
with emphasis. 'Would I could have you here as I used to do, so as to look after every want
and administer to every wish. My fingers shall work for your baby, and my prayers shall be
said for him and for you, morning and night. I am not changed, Hester. I am still and ever
shall be, while I am spared, your own loving mother.' So they parted, and Hester was driven
back to Folking.

In forming our opinion as to others we are daily brought into difficulty by doubting how much
we should allow to their convictions, and how far we are justified in condemning those who
do not accede to our own. Mrs. Bolton believed every word that she said. There was no touch
of hypocrisy about her. Could she without sting of conscience have gone off to Folking and
ate of her son-in-law's bread and drank of his cup, and sat in his presence, no mother living
would have enjoyed more thoroughly the delight of waiting upon and caressing and bending over
her child. She denied herself all this with an agony of spirit, groaning not only over their
earthly separation, thinking not only of her daughter's present dangers, but tormented also
by reflections as to dangers and possible separations in another world. But she knew she was
right. She knew at least that were she to act otherwise there would be upon her conscience
the weight of sin. She did not know that the convictions on which she rested with such confidence
had come in truth from her injured pride,--had settled themselves in her mind because she had
been beaten in her endeavours to prevent her daughter's marriage. She was not aware that she
regarded John Caldigate as a goat,--as one who beyond all doubt was a goat,--simply because
John Caldigate had had his way, while she had been debarred from hers. Such no doubt was the
case. And yet who can deny her praise for fidelity to her own convictions? When we read of
those who have massacred and tortured their opponents in religion, have boiled alive the unfortunates
who have differed from themselves as to the meaning of an unintelligible word or two, have
vigorously torn the entrails out of those who have been pious with a piety different from their
own, how shall we dare to say that they should be punished for their fidelity? Mrs. Bolton
spent much of that afternoon with her knees on the hard boards,--thinking that a hassock would
have taken something from the sanctity of the action,--wrestling for her child in prayer. And
she told herself that her prayer had been heard. She got up more than ever assured that she
must not touch pitch lest she should be defiled. Let us pray for what we will with earnestness,--though
it be for the destruction of half of a world,--we are sure to think that our prayers have been
heard.

Chapter XXIII

The New Heir

Things went on smoothly at Folking, or with apparent smoothness, for three months, during which
John Caldigate surprised both his friends and his enemies by the exemplary manner in which
he fulfilled his duties as a parish squire. He was put on the commission, and was in the way
to become the most active Justice of the Peace in those parts. He made himself intimate with
all the tenants, and was almost worshipped by Mr. Ralph Holt, his nearest neighbour, to whose
judgment he submitted himself in all agricultural matters. He shot a little, but moderately,
having no inclination to foster what is called a head of game. And he went to church very regularly,
having renewed his intimacy with Mr. Bromley, the parson, a gentleman who had unfortunately
found it necessary to quarrel with the old squire, because the old squire had been so manifestly
a pagan.

There had been unhappiness in the parish on this head, and, especially, unhappiness to Mr.
Bromley, who was a good man. That Mr. Caldigate should be what he called a pagan had been represented
by Mr. Bromley to his friends as a great misfortune, and especially a misfortune to the squire
himself. But he would have ignored that in regard to social life,--so Mr. Bromley said when
discussing the matter,--if the pagan would have desisted from arguing the subject. But when
Mr. Caldigate insisted on the parson owning the unreasonableness of his own belief, and called
upon him to confess himself to be either a fool or a hypocrite, then the parson found himself
constrained to drop all further intercourse. 'It is the way with all priests,' said the old
squire triumphantly to the first man he could get to hear him. 'The moment you disagree with
them they become your enemies at once, and would straightway kill you if they had the power.'
He probably did not know how very disagreeable he had made himself to the poor clergyman.

But now matters were on a much better footing, and all the parish rejoiced. The new squire
was seen in his pew every Sunday morning, and often entertained the parson at the house. The
rumour of this change was indeed so great that more than the truth reached the ears of some
of the Boltons, and advantage was taken of it by those who desired to prove to Mrs. Bolton
that the man was not a goat. What more would she have? He went regularly to morning and evening
service,--here it was that rumour exaggerated our hero's virtues,--did all his duty as a country
gentleman, and was kind to his wife. The Daniels, who were but lukewarm people, thought that
Mrs. Bolton was bound to give way. Mrs. Robert declared among her friends that the poor woman
was becoming mad from religion, and the old banker himself was driven very hard for a reply
when Robert asked him whether such a son-in-law as John Caldigate ought to be kept at arms'
length. The old man did in truth hate the name of John Caldigate, and regretted bitterly the
indiscretion of that day when the spendthrift had been admitted within his gates. Though he
had agreed to the marriage, partly from a sense of duty to his child, partly under the influences
of his son, he had, since that, been subject to his wife for nine or ten months. She had not
been able to prevail against him in action; but no earthly power could stop her tongue. Now
when these new praises were dinned into his ears, when he did convince himself that, as far
as worldly matters went, his son-in-law was likely to become a prosperous and respected gentleman,
he would fain have let the question of hostility drop. There need not have been much intercourse
between Puritan Grange and Folking; but then also there need be no quarrel. He was desirous
that Caldigate should be allowed to come to the house, and that even visits of ceremony should
be made to Folking. But Mrs. Bolton would have nothing to do with such half friendship. In
the time that was coming she must be everything or nothing to her daughter. And she could not
be brought to think that one who had been so manifestly a goat should cease to be a goat so
suddenly. In other words, she could not soften her heart towards the man who had conquered
her. Therefore when the time came for the baby to be born there had been no reconciliation
between Puritan Grange and Folking.

Mrs. Babington had been somewhat less stern. Immediately on the return of the married couple
to their own home she had still been full of wrath, and had predicted every kind of evil; but
when she heard that all tongues were saying all good things of this nephew of hers, and when
she was reminded by her husband that blood is thicker than water, and when she reflected that
it is the duty of Christians to forgive injuries, she wrote to the sinner as follows:--

    'BABINGTON HALL, November 187-.

    'My DEAR JOHN,--We are all here desirous that bygones should be
    bygones, and are willing to forgive,--though we may not perhaps be
    able to forget. I am quite of opinion that resentments should not be
    lasting, let them have been ever so well justified by circumstances
    at first.

    'Your uncle bids me say that he hopes you will come over and shoot
    the Puddinghall coverts with Humphry and John. They propose Thursday
    next but would alter the day if that does not suit.

    'We have heard of your wife's condition, of course, and trust that
    everything may go well with her. I shall hope to make her
    acquaintance some day when she is able to receive visitors.

    'I am particularly induced at the present moment to hold out to you
    once more the right hand of fellowship and family affection by the
    fact that dear Julia is about to settle herself most advantageously
    in life. She is engaged to marry the Rev. Augustus Smirkie, the
    rector of Plum-cum-Pippins near Woodbridge in this county. We all
    like Mr. Smirkie very much indeed, and think that Julia has been
    most fortunate in her choice.' (These words were underscored doubly
    by way of showing how very much superior was Mr. Augustus Smirkie to
    Mr. John Caldigate.) 'I may perhaps as well mention, to avoid
    anything disagreeable at present, that Julia is at this time staying
    with Mr. Smirkie's mother at Ipswich.--Your affectionate aunt,

    'MARYANNE BABINGTON.'

Caldigate was at first inclined to send, in answer to this letter, a reply which would not
have been agreeable to his aunt, but was talked into a better state of mind by his wife. 'Telling
me that she will forgive me! The question is whether I will forgive her!' 'Let that be the
question,' said his wife, 'and do forgive her. She wants to come round, and, of course, she
has to make the best of it for herself. Tell her from me that I shall be delighted to see her
whenever she chooses to come.'

'Poor Julia!' said Caldigate, laughing.

'Of course you think so, John. That's natural enough. Perhaps I think so too. But what has
that to do with it?'

'It's rather unfortunate that I know so much about Mr. Smirkie. He is fifty years old, and
has five children by his former wife.'

'I don't see why he shouldn't be a good husband for all that.'

'And Plum-cum-Pippins is less than £300 a-year. Poor dear Julia!'

'I believe you are jealous, John.'

'Well; yes. Look at the way she has underscored it. Of course I'm jealous.' Nevertheless he
wrote a courteous answer promising to go over and shoot the coverts, and stay for one night.

He did go over and shoot the coverts, and stayed for one night; but the visit was not very
successful. Aunt Polly would talk of the glories of the Plum-cum-Pippins rectory in a manner
which implied that dear Julia's escape from a fate which once threatened her had been quite
providential. When he alluded,--as he did, but should not have done,--to the young Smirkies,
she spoke with almost ecstatic enthusiasm of the 'dear children,' Caldigate knowing the while
that the eldest child must be at least sixteen. And then, though Aunt Polly was kind to him,
she was kind in an almost insulting manner,--as though he were to be received for the sake
of auld lang syne in spite of the step he had taken downwards in the world. He did his best
to bear all this with no more than an inward smile, telling himself that it behoved him as
a man to allow her to have her little revenge. But the smile was seen, and the more that was
seen of it, the more often was he reminded that he had lost that place in the Babington elysium
which might have been his, had he not been too foolish to know what was good for him. And a
hint was given that the Boltons a short time since had not been aristocratic, whereas it was
proved to him from Burke's Landed Gentry that the Smirkies had been established in Suffolk
ever since Cromwell's time. No doubt their land had gone, but still there had been Smirkies.

'How did you get on with them?' his father asked, as he passed home through Cambridge.

'Much the same as usual. Of course in such a family a son-in-law elect is more thought of than
a useless married man.'

'They snubbed you.'

'Aunt Polly snubbed me a little, and I don't think I had quite so good a place for the shooting
as in the old days. But all that was to be expected. I quite agree with Aunt Polly that family
quarrels are foolish things.'

'I am not so sure. Some people doom themselves to an infinity of annoyance because they won't
avoid the society of disagreeable people. I don't know that I have ever quarrelled with any
one. I have never intended to do so. But when I find that a man or woman is not sympathetic
I think it better to keep out of the way.' That was the squire's account of himself. Those
who knew him in the neighbourhood were accustomed to say that he had quarrelled with everybody
about him.

In December the baby was born, just twelve months after the marriage, and there was great demonstrations
of joy, and ringing of bells in the parishes of Utterden and Netherden. The baby was a boy,
and all was as it ought to be. John Caldigate himself, when he came to look at his position
and to understand the feeling of those around him, was astonished to find how strong was the
feeling in his own favour, and how thoroughly the tenants had been outraged by the idea that
the property might be made over to a more distant member of the family. What was it to them
who lived in the house at Folking? Why should they have been solicitous in the matter? They
had their leases, and there was no adequate reason for supposing that one Caldigate would be
more pleasant in his dealing with them than another. And yet it was evident to him now that
this birth of a real heir at the squire's house, with a fair prospect that the acres would
descend in a right line, was regarded by them all with almost superstitious satisfaction. The
bells were rung as though the church-towers were going to be pulled down, and there was not
a farmer or a farmer's wife who did not come to the door of Folking to ask how the young mother
and the baby were doing.

'This is as it should be, squoire,' said Ralph Holt, who was going about in his Sunday clothes,
as though it was a day much too sacred for muck and work. He had caught hold of Caldigate in
the stable yard, and was now walking with him down towards the ferry.

'Yes;--she's doing very well, they tell me,' said the newly-made father.

'In course she'll do well. Why not? A healthy lass like she, if I may make so free? There ain't
nothing like having them strong and young, with no town-bred airs about 'em. I never doubted
as she wouldn't do well. I can tell from their very walk what sort of mothers they'll be.'
Mr. Holt had long been known as the most judicious breeder of stock in that neighbourhood.
'But it ain't only that, squoire.'

'The young'un will do well too, I hope.'

'In course he will. Why not? The foals take after their dams for a time, pretty much always.
But what I mean is;--we be all glad you've come back from them out-o'-the-way parts.'

'I had to go there, Holt.'

'Well;--we don't know much about that, sir, and I don't mean nothing about that.'

'To tell the truth, my friend, I should not have done very well here unless I had been able
to top-dress the English acres with a little Australian gold.'

'Like enough, squoire; like enough. But I wasn't making bold to say nothing about that. For
a young gentleman to go out a while and then to come back was all very well. Most of 'em does
it. But when there was a talk as you wern't to come back, and that Master George was to take
the place;--why then it did seem as things was very wrong.'

'Master George might have been quite as good as I.'

'It wasn't the proper thing, squoire. It wasn't straight. If you hadn't never a' been, sir,
or if the Lord Almighty had taken you as he did the others, God bless 'em, nobody wouldn't
have had a right to say nothing. But as you was to the fore it wouldn't have been straight,
and no one wouldn't have thought it straight.' Instigated by this John Caldigate looked a good
deal into the matter that day, and began to feel that, having been born Squire of Folking,
he had, perhaps, no right to deal with himself otherwise. Then various thoughts passed through
his mind as to other dealings which had taken place. How great had been the chance against
his being Squire of Folking when he started with Dick Shand to look for Australian gold! And
how little had been the chance of his calling Hester Bolton his wife when he was pledging his
word to Mrs. Smith on board the Goldfinder! But now it had all come round to him just as he
would have had it. There was his wife up-stairs in the big bed-room with her baby,--the wife
as to whom he had made that romantic resolution when he had hardly spoken to her; and there
had been the bells ringing and the tenants congratulating him, and everything had been pleasant.
His father who had so scorned him,--who in the days of Davis and Newmarket had been so well
justified in scorning him,--was now his closest friend. Thinking of all this, he told himself
that he had certainly received better things than he had deserved.

A day or two after the birth of the baby Mrs. Robert came out to see the new prodigy, and on
the following day Mrs. Daniel. Mrs. Robert was, of course, very friendly and disposed to be
in all respects a good sister-in-law. Hester's great grief was in regard to her mother. She
was steadfast enough in her resolution to stand in all respects by her husband if there must
be a separation,--but the idea of the separation robbed her of much of her happiness. Mrs.
Robert was aware that a great effort was being made with Mrs. Bolton. The young squire's respectability
was so great, and his conduct so good, that not only the Boltons themselves, but neighbours
around who knew aught of the Bolton affairs, were loud in denouncing the woman for turning
up her nose at such a son-in-law. The great object was to induce her to say that she would
allow Caldigate to enter the house at Chesterton. 'You know I never see her now,' said Mrs.
Robert; 'I'm too much of a sinner to think of entering the gates.'

'Do not laugh at her, Margaret,' said Hester.

'I do not mean to laugh at her. It is simply the truth. Robert and I have made up our minds
that it is better for us all that I should not put myself in her way.'

'Think how different it must be for me!'

'Of course it is. It is dreadful to think that she should be so--prejudiced. But what can I
do, dear? If they will go on persevering, she will, of course, have to give way.' The 'they'
spoken of were the Daniels, and old Mr. Bolton himself, and latterly the Nicholases, all of
whom were of opinion that the separation of the mother from her daughter was very dreadful,
especially when it came to be understood that the squire of Folking went regularly to his parish
church.

On the next day Mrs. Daniel came out; and though she was much less liked by Hester than her
younger sister-in-law, she brought more comfortable tidings. She had been at the Grange a day
or two before, and Mrs. Bolton had almost consented to say that she would see John Caldigate.
'You shouldn't be in a hurry, you know, my dear,' said Mrs. Daniel.

'But what has John done that there should be any question about all this?'

'I suppose he was a little--just a little--what they call fast once.'

'He got into debt when he was a boy,' said the wife, 'and then paid off everything and a great
deal more by his own industry. It seems to me that everybody ought to be proud of him.'

'I don't think your mother is proud of him, my dear.'

'Poor mamma!'

'I hope he'll go when he's told to do so.'

'John! Of course he'll go if I ask him. There's nothing he wouldn't do to make me happy. But
really when I talk to him about it at all, I am ashamed of myself. Poor mamma!' The result
of this visit was, however, very comforting. Mrs Daniel had seen Mrs. Bolton, and had herself
been witness to the fact that Mrs. Bolton had mitigated the sternness of her denial when asked
to receive her son-in-law at Puritan Grange. It was, said Mrs. Daniel, the settled opinion
of the Bolton family that, in the course of another month or so, the woman would be induced
to give way under the pressure put upon her by the family generally.

Chapter XXIV

News from the Gold Mines

It was said at the beginning of the last chapter that things had gone on smoothly, or with
apparent smoothness, at Folking since the return of the Caldigates from their wedding tour;
but there had in truth been a small cloud in the Folking heavens over and beyond that Babington
haze which was now vanishing, and the storm at Chesterton as to which hopes were entertained
that it would clear itself away. It will perhaps be remembered that Caldigate's offer for the
sale of his interest in the Polyeuka mine had been suddenly accepted by certain enterprising
persons in Australia, and that the money itself had been absolutely forthcoming. This had been
in every way fortunate, as he had been saved from the trouble of another journey to the colony;
and his money matters had been put on such a footing as to make him altogether comfortable
But just when he heard that the money had been lodged to his account,--and when the money actually
had been so paid,--he received a telegram from Mr. Crinkett, begging that the matter might
be for a time postponed. This, of course, was out of the question. His terms had been accepted,--which
might have gone for very little had not the money been forthcoming. But the cash was positively
in his hands. Who ever heard of a man 'postponing' an arrangement in such circumstances? Let
them do what they might with Polyeuka, he was safe! He telegraphed back to say that there could
be no postponement As far as he was concerned the whole thing was settled. Then there came
a multiplicity of telegrams, very costly to the Crinkett interest;--costly also and troublesome
to himself; for he, though the matter was so pleasantly settled as far as he was concerned,
could not altogether ignore the plaints that were made to him. Then there came very long letters,
long and loud; letters not only from Crinkett, but from others, telling him that the Polyeuka
gold had come to an end, the lode disappearing altogether, as lodes sometimes do disappear
The fact was that the Crinkett Company asked to have back half its money, offering him the
Polyeuka mine in its entirety if he chose to accept it.

John Caldigate, though in England he could be and was a liberal gentleman, had been long enough
in Australia to know that if he meant to hold his own among such men as Mr. Crinkett, he must
make the best of such turns of fortune as chance might give him. Under no circumstances would
Crinkett have been generous to him. Had Polyeuka suddenly become more prolific in the precious
metal than any mine in the colony the Crinkett Company would have laughed at any claim made
by him for further payment. When a bargain has been fairly made, the parties must make the
best of it. He was therefore very decided in his refusal to make restitution, though he was
at the same time profuse in his expressions of sorrow.

Then there came a threat,--not from Crinkett, but from Mrs. Euphemia Smith. And the letter
was not signed Euphemia Smith,--but Euphemia Caldigate. And the letter was as follows:---

    'In spite of all your treachery to me I do not wish to ruin you, or
    to destroy your young wife, by proving myself in England to have
    been married to you at Ahalala. But I will do so unless you assent
    to the terms which Crinkett has proposed. He and I are in
    partnership in the matter with two or three others, and are willing
    to let all that has gone before be forgotten if we have means given
    us to make another start. You cannot feel that the money you have
    received is fairly yours, and I can hardly think you would wish to
    become rich by taking from me all that I have earned after so many
    hardships. If you will do as I propose, you had better send out an
    agent. On paying us the money he shall not only have the
    marriage-certificate, but shall stand by and see me married to
    Crinkett, who is now a widower. After that, of course, I can make no
    claim to you. If you will not do this, both I and Crinkett, and the
    other man who was present at our marriage, and Anne Young, who has
    been with me ever since, will go at once to England, and the law
    must take its course.

    'I have no scruple in demanding this as you owe me so much more.

    'Allan, the Wesleyan who married us, has gone out of the colony, no
    one knows where,--but I send you the copy of the certificate; and
    all the four of us who were there are still together. And there were
    others who were at Ahalala at the time, and who remember the
    marriage well. Dick Shand was not in the chapel, but Dick knew all
    about it. There is quite plenty of evidence.

    'Send back by the wire word what you will do, and let your agent
    come over as soon as possible.

    'EUPHEMIA CALDIGATE.'

However true or however false the allegations made in the above letter may have been, for a
time it stunned him greatly. This letter reached him about a month before the birth of his
son, and for a day or two it disturbed him greatly. The value of lost services (shipping, foreign trade and international banking) expected 1.66 billion
working hours.

The total additional costs of working hours, as required by the prevailing
conditions will is, then 9 to 9.28 billion.

When I speak of a working population of 21 million go out and work hours per capita in 2400 in
counting, so the total value of hours spent by Germany not more than 50 billion. Of these, more
than 9 so expended for work that we are against not need to spend the war, nearly 1 / 5 of total
labor hours. If I these totals with the number of male working population put in relation, we obtain
with us a hidden unemployment rate of nearly 4 million people, 4 million People need to do work
that previously was not necessary. So when other nations an unemployment rate appears to us
is not visible, so I want as opposed to speak of an invisible unemployment, which is that
4 million People need to do work that was not previously required and the work in previously
not improved. And while all this prior to any payment of reparations. From an accumulation
of wealth can therefore be no question.

I request some may say now about the pure gold benefits expected from Germany. It may be that my previous
comments sounded negative. Where is the optimism of the calculation denied, energy and determination
will have to come to help, but here are limits given.

I would refer again to 500 million, of which I have already spoken. The pure Gold burdens on
Germany will be but in any case be much higher than that amount. It is initially next to the
equivalent of clearing with 360-400 million gold marks. But then there are the gold in payment
for the procured raw materials, their we need to make our kind. Because with the exception
of the coal supply, for the foreign purchase of support materials is not too great weight
and I therefore leave off approach, we need to all other property, supplies about 25 percent of
Value of raw materials from abroad. So I come to a further 250 million gold marks. We would therefore
qualify for 1922 at a gold output of more than 1 billion gold marks, if It apparently is only a payment
of 500 million gold. If it seems necessary to require such a huge sum of Germany, one should
discount the issue of the clearing and the inner occupation costs
examined in depth.

In any case, Germany is fully prepared in the way of stabilization
of the budget to connect, which is suggested to him.

The collection of duties on gold basis is to take place.

The question of rates will be regulated in 1922, the deficit of the sectors balance.

The reduction in subsidies is under way.

The coal question is difficult because prices are approaching the world market prices more and
more.

As for the internal loan, it will be taken into serious consideration.

The issue of capital flight would take away a lot of time here. I therefore, they reset today
to be allowed, especially since their settlement would be possible only with the cooperation
of all foreign banks.

As for the guarantees, it is my opinion, means to the Reichsbank, a larger to give autonomy.
The Riksbank is now the Chancellor assumed that, in the course has 50 years, made only one of
its engagement right. Further Understanding is possible. But it would be very dangerous if you place
the responsibility the monitoring began. That would undermine the freedom and responsibility as a precedent
the central banks of all States harm.

We were finally asked if we want to participate in the reconstruction of Europe. Germany recognizes
the critical importance of this task and its relationship to the world economy. While it is not in
a position to the capital market in the world means richer countries in the proportions make
available to, after all, under the intended conditions in Germany able to take over its intended
part. Germany is the more likely the reconstruction participate than with the technical and economic
conditions and practices the East is familiar. The way in which you want to go seems to me correct.
A international syndicate, and that a private syndicate. Germany believes that the question
should start the reconstruction with the restoration of traffic and transport. They must then penetrate
to the sources of production and above all the existing enterprises
again revive.

Germany believes that the development of the East and the center
Europe is taking the more so because its share is entitled attitude
of the political and economic development, particularly eastern Europe
in relation to this.

The moment than Germany near the end of his strength after the war, collapse, revolution, Germany
but resisted the governmental and social disorganization. Had this disorganization triumphs in
Germany, it would become a key threat to the whole world. Therefore believes Germany, not
only by forces of the restoration of devastated areas of the West,
but also with regard to its geographical location and knowledge of
existing neighborhood give ratios of the restoration of Eastern and
Central Europe will, and thus participate in the task which the great
powers found themselves in agreement with these areas have.

SPEECH TO THE MAIN COMMITTEE OF THE REACH OF 7 DAY March 1922

The focus of our entire foreign policy is still the problem of reparations. At the moment, as in the
spring of last year signed the ultimatum to Germany and was joined
by the reparations in his current stage, were three opinions in Germany
over this issue visible.

One view was to the effect it would have shown strength and resisted, it must, come what may, the performance
of the reparations are ever rejected. I do not think that this view was a common, but it is in the
public expressed come. No one has attempted to explain the means by which such a policy could
be implemented and what outcomes they would. This result would only the catastrophe was the sinking
of Germany into a chaos of foreign confusion.

The second assumption, which we opposed, found echo of in this House. It was the view that one
up to a certain mass to approach the problem of reparations should, but that should come through
the first task of the national government is how to put it, to declare with all honesty, the
performances are totally unattainable and that there had ever no point to drag it in any more significant
proportions considered. This policy was designated as the policy of openness, and it was the Government
of the serious allegation made that they do not specify this openness aufbrächte. This view was
unpsychological, because the other heard from the "We can not" only the "we do not want to" out.

The
third view of the experiment, the performance was the view of the national government, and it was
promoted during this year to a considerable extent.

The national government was assume that a commitment had created for the kingdom by the signature
of his authoritative bodies. It considered that to be made under all circumstances, the attempt need
to show the former enemies that Germany was prepared to the limit of its Capability to walk.
I believe that this view was psychologically correct. They counted on the mentality of the
former enemy countries and assumed that over sooner or later enter a realization of the true facts
would by his own intelligence of other nations.

I regret that a word I said at the initiation of this so-called policy of fulfillment , have
encountered considerable misunderstanding. It has made statements that I in the Reichstag
tat closed, I would think that Germany could up to any extent his Compliance driven, it would
be only a question of how far it was considered desirable to let the people in need. I would
such a view, if in my words it appears that, at the deepest regret. What I said was, but pretty much the
opposite. I have for the possibility of fulfilling attracted the strongest line, the draw it
at all , the fact of moral. I explained that the measure is given by the performance the question of
how far you should have come a people in need. This "should emphasize" I, because it was mentioned
the moral obligation to only go up to the point can justify the statesman. This principle has
remained faithful to the government. It , in the course of the year then also shown that the question
of "possibility or impossibility" the performance did not become the one that the mentality
of other countries has dealt exclusively. In a short time has emerged that another issue emerged,
namely: how far a reparation of Germany at all for other nations is tolerable, because the
economic link between the countries led to recognize that the forced labor of a country on the world
market brought, can only lead to the entire to destroy the world market, and therefore, also
be obtained if one side payments creating disadvantages for other countries that are so great
that, for example, in England alone resulted in unemployment of 2 million people. Psychologically,
so has the Government action was correct. It had been avoided, a fruitless discussion be limited
to the level of a theoretical possibility. It was thus possible created, can only speak to the facts,
and the language of the facts is so strong, was that almost consistent in all countries there is the
view that the reparations must be studied anew. It's been a day on which the Study of reparations
in the world would have rested.

In energetic, the English Considered for re-examination has occurred, the Reparations Commission
has addressed the question of and float just at this moment the negotiations
about to what degree the reparations should be limited for 1922.

With this general view of the Government in the context focused on the practical politics, they
pursued during the year, and led the first stage to Wiesbaden.

The task of Wiesbaden was a double. It was first necessary, by the possible to find any substantial
payments are made from one country to another could, for it was evident that it was not possible,
gold benefits from Germany to to perform abroad, provided there was no significant activity in
the trade balance have been present would be, and this was not present.

It was therefore important to find methods to to give even a pad of the reparations feasibility.
The term kind of came to the fore. An attempt was made initially with France to conclude agreements
of the kind and this Agreement to establish that the current would of goods, which was to be
expected, fed primarily to the reconstruction area.

In addition, however, the second political problem was with greater importance. The attachment of
the Reparationsbeziehungen the rest of the world was generally only possible when starting
with the Sites were considered, which suffered most severely from the ravages of war had. It
is a European need for the devastated areas of France again be established. As long as they
are desert land between Germany and France remain it is a symbol of division among peoples. Again
and again the residents of these areas The bitterness out of mind,
and the countries of the world to see in the devastated areas, the
Symbol of a still unrecovered peace.

I consider it absolutely necessary to that the reconstruction of the devastated areas of France
as soon as possible, should and I believe that the central problem of the whole reparations
is that Germany be do utmost to restore these areas.

The two problems were given in Wiesbaden and solved. An agreement was signed between Germany
and France made the find to other states its application could. Unfortunately, the result of Wiesbaden
is not, as it would have been desirable, a work of peace to the outside and the inside was.
To the outside more than inside. Inside a violent agitation and controversy unfolded just against
the kind. With changing arguments went before you. It was said that the Wiesbaden Agreement,
the German Was ruining people, it was said, we had an option to France on our Stimulus given.
It was stated that we would be far beyond our obligations of Versailles gone. Each of these claims
has been refuted, but they grew back as the heads the Hydra, and it was obvious that there is
less economic than political Aspirations were that provoked the great agitation against Wiesbaden.
This became clear in the moment when it was said, the Wiesbaden agreement should such a heavy
division caused between Germany and England, now that England finally from any have renounced interest
towards Germany. That this was not the case, I was English side was confirmed, British high position
told me that in the Wiesbaden Agreement our first political step in the creation of the reparations
saw.

They went so far as to say, that without the agreement of Wiesbaden those further developments
would not have been possible, which led us over time to Cannes.

The conference in Cannes is, gentlemen, as you know, not until their last end been held. It was
stopped prematurely by French domestic political conditions, by the resignation of the French
prime minister. We can not say that Cannes would have a final rule within the meaning of an entire
order of the future given to us. But we can not say that was the result of a negative Cannes. It
has become possible through the negotiations that have taken place there and earlier in London,
präliminieren an agreement to, at least for the year 1922, which today still not fully regulated
is, but that'll probably in the next few weeks to rule. It is possible become, in Cannes, the
representatives of the former enemy nations us the entire German Situation to explain, in greater detail
and clarity than we have been able would have if we are only on the negative view of the rejection
of any performance test were made. It's also been in Cannes to the fact that a conference of all
nations was taken in view of Genoa, probably after changing fortunes after all be held in April.
On one side is the reflection in the German public the have been completed as Cannes, was to be expected
that very little of Genoa, that the results were completely unsatisfactory that the government there
not only unsuccessful, but actually, accurately considered to have suffered a heavy defeat.
In remarkable contrast, was the fact that just by the same bodies in Genoa saw a perfect indifference,
at the moment as the Boulogne decisions took place, said, was that the last Hope is vanished, we
would see light in Germany. In one of the two Cases must have the critics wrong, but either was
in Cannes was achieved something or loss that should have been allegedly suffered in Boulogne
could not so very be heavier.

I think that actually existed, a double error. On the one hand, the Genoese Conference underestimated
at the moment as they occurred, were on the other hand, the Boulogne decisions on estimates
at the moment when they became a reality. Those the focusing in more detail, have never doubted
that Genoa is not the place could be, to that of a panel of more than 40 nations, of which a large
part not a signatory of Versailles were still involved in war, that of these nations decisions
could not be reached on the basis of Versailles or on the basis of reparations. Boulogne has provided
the confirmation that the reparations and the Versailles Contract subject to that body for resolution
can not.
 'You did not leave me then because
you doubted me?'

'Oh no,' she cried, throwing herself upon him and smothering him with kisses--'No, no! It was
surprise at such horrid words,--not doubt, not doubt of you. I will never doubt you.'

'It was because I was sure of you that I have ventured to tell you this.'

'You may be sure of me,' she said, sobbing violently the while. 'You are sure of me; are you
not? And now tell it me all. How did she say so? why did she say so? Is she coming to claim
you? Tell me all. Oh, John, tell me everything.'

'The why is soon told. Because she wants money. She had heard no doubt of my marriage and thought
to frighten me out of money. I do not think she would do it herself. The man Crinkett has put
her up to it.'

'What does she say?'

'Just that,--and then she signs herself,--Euphemia Caldigate.'

'Oh, John!'

'Now you know it all.'

'May I not see the letter?'

'For what good? But you shall see it if you wish it. I have determined that nothing shall be
kept back from you. In all that there may ever be to trouble us the best comfort will be in
perfect confidence.' He had already learned enough of her nature to be sure that in this way
would he best comfort her, and most certainly ensure her trust in himself.

'Oh yes,' she cried. 'If you will tell me all, I will never doubt you.' Then she took the letter
from his hand, and attempted to read it. But her excitement was so great that though the words
were written very clearly, she could not bring her mind to understand them. 'Treachery! Ruin!
Married to you! What is it all? Do you read it to me;--every word of it.' Then he did read
it; every word of it. 'She says that she will marry the other man. How can she marry him when
she says that she is--your wife?'

'Just so, my pet. But you see what she says. It does not matter much to her whether it be true
or false, so that she can get my money from me. But, Hester, I would fain be just even to her.
No doubt she wrote the letter.'

'Who else would have written it?'

'She wrote it. I know her hand. And these are her words,--because they are properly expressed.
But it is all his doing,--the man's doing. He has got her in his power, and he is using her
in this way.'

'If you sent her money--?'

'Not a shilling;--not though she were starving; not now. A man who gives money under a threat
is gone. If I were to send her money, everyone would believe this tale that she tells. Your
brother Robert would believe it.'

'He knows it?'

'I took the letter to him instantly, but I made up my mind that I would not show it you till
baby was born. You can understand that?' She only pressed closer to him as he said this. 'I
showed it to Robert, and, altogether we are not quite such friends since as we were before.'

'You do not mean that he believes it?'

'No; not that. He does not believe it. If he did, I do not see how he and I could ever speak
to each other again. I don't think he believes it at all. But I had to tell him the whole story,
and that, perhaps, offended him.' The 'whole story' had not been told to Hester, nor did he
think it necessary that it should be told. There was no reason why these details which Robert
had elicited by his questions should be repeated to her,--the promise of marriage, the interference
of the Wesleyan minister, the use made of his name,--of all this he said nothing. But she had
now been told that which to her had been very dreadful, and she was not surprised that her
brother should have been offended when he heard the same sad story. She, of course, had at
once pardoned the old offence. A young wife when she is sure of her husband, will readily forgive
all offences committed before marriage, and will almost be thankful for the confidence placed
in her when offences are confessed. But she could understand that a brother could not be thankful,
and she would naturally exaggerate in her own mind the horror which he would feel at such a
revelation. Then the husband endeavoured to lighten the effect of what he had said. 'Offence,
perhaps, is the wrong word. But he was stiff and masterful, if you know what I mean.'

'You would not bear that, certainly, John?'

'No. I have to own that I do not love the assumption of authority,--except from you.'

'You do not like it from anybody, John.'

'You would not wish me to submit myself to your brother?'

'No; but I think I might ask him to be baby's godfather.'

'As you please; only you would be unhappy if he refused.'

Then there came a little wail from the cradle and the baby was taken up, and for some minutes
his little necessities occupied the mother to the exclusion even of that terrible letter. But
when Caldigate was about to leave the room, she asked him another question. 'Will she do anything
more, John?'

'I can hardly say. I should think not.'

'What does Robert think?'

'He has not told me. I sent an immediate refusal by the telegraph wires, and have heard nothing
since.'

'Is he--nervous about it?'

'I hardly know. It dwells in his mind, no doubt.'

'Are you nervous?'

'It dwells in my mind. That is all.'

'May I speak to him about it?'

'Why should you? What good would it do? I would rather you did not. Nevertheless, if you feel
frightened, if you think that there is anything wrong, it will be natural that you should go
to him for assistance. I will not forbid it.' As he said this he stood back away from her.
It was but by a foot or two, but still there was a sign of separation which instantly made
itself palpable to her.

'Wrong, how wrong?' she said, following him and clinging to him. 'You do not suppose that I
would go to him because I think you wrong? Do you not know that whatever might come I should
cling to you? What is he to me compared to you? No; I will never speak to him about it.'

He returned her caress with fervour, and stroked her hair, and kissed her forehead. 'My dearest!
my own! my darling! But what I mean is that if some other man's opinion on this subject is
necessary to your comfort, you may go to him.'

'No other man's opinion shall be necessary to me about anything. I will not speak about it
to Robert, or to any one. But if more should come of it, you will tell me?'

'You shall know everything that comes. I have never for a moment had the idea of keeping it
back from you. But because of baby, and because baby had to be born, I delayed it.' This was
an excuse which, as the mother of her child, she could not but accept with thankfulness.

'I think I will ask him,' she said that night, referring again to the vexed question of godfathers.
Uncle Babington had some weeks since very generously offered his services, and, of course,
they had been generously accepted. Among the baby's relations he was the man of highest standing
in the world; and then this was a mark of absolute forgiveness in reference to the wrongs of
poor Julia. And a long letter had been prepared to Mrs. Bolton, written by Hester's own hand,
not without much trouble, in which the baby's grandmother was urged to take upon herself the
duties of godmother. All this had been discussed in the family, so that the nature of the petition
was well known to Mrs. Bolton for some time before she received it. Mrs. Daniel, who had consented
to act in the event of a refusal from Puritan Grange, had more than once used her influence
with her step-mother-in-law. But no hint had as yet come to Folking as to what the answer might
be. It had also been suggested that Robert should be the other godfather,--the proposal having
been made to Mrs. Robert. But there had come upon all the Boltons a feeling that Robert was
indifferent perhaps, even unwilling to undertake the task. And yet no one knew why. Mrs. Robert
herself did not know why.

The reader, however, will know why, and will understand how it was that Mrs. Robert was in
the dark. The attorney, though he was suspicious, though he was frightened, though he was,
in truth, very angry with this new brother-in-law, through whose ante-nuptial delinquencies
so much sorrow was threatened to the Bolton family, nevertheless kept the secret from all the
Cambridge Boltons. It had been necessary to him to seek counsel with some one, but he had mentioned
the matter only to his brother William. But he did not wish to add to the bond which now tied
him to Folking. If this horror, this possible horror, should fall upon them,--if it should
turn out that he had insisted on giving his sister in marriage to a man already married,--then,--then,--then----!
Such possible future incidents were too terrible to be considered closely, but with such a
possibility he would not add to the bonds. At Puritan Grange they would throw all the responsibility
of what had been done upon him. This feeling was mingled with his love for his sister,--with
the indignation he would not only feel but show if it should turn out that she had been wronged.
'I will destroy him,--I will destroy him utterly,' he would sometimes say to himself as he
thought of it.

And now the godfather question had to be decided, 'No,' he said to his wife, 'I don't care
about such things. I won't do it. You write and tell her that I have prejudices, or scruples,
or whatever you choose to call it.'

'There is to be a little tarradiddle told, and I am to tell it?'

'I have prejudices and scruples.'

'About the religion of the thing?' She knew,--as of course, she was bound to know,'--that he
had at any rate a round dozen of god-children somewhere about the country. There were the young
Williams, and the young Daniels, and her own nephews and nieces, with the parents of all of
whom uncle Robert had been regarded as the very man for a godfather. The silversmith in Trumpington
Street knew exactly the weight of the silver cup that was to be given to the boy or to a girl.
The Bible and prayer-books were equally well regulated. Mrs. Robert could not but smile at
the idea of religious scruples. 'I wish I knew what it was that has come over you of late.
I fancy you have quarrelled with John Caldigate.'

'If you think that, then you can understand the reason.'

'What is it about?'

'I have not quarrelled with him. It is possible that I may have to do so. But I do not mean
to say what it is about.' Then he smiled. 'I don't want you to ask any more questions, but
just to write to Hester as kindly as you can, saying I don't mean to be godfather any more.
It will be a good excuse in regard to all future babies.' Mrs. Robert was a good wife and did
as she was bid. She worded her refusal as cautiously as she could, and,--on that occasion,--asked
her husband no further question.

The prayer that was addressed to the lady of Puritan Grange became the subject of much debate
of great consideration, and I may say also of lengthened prayer. To Mrs. Bolton this position
of godmother implied much of the old sacred responsibility which was formerly attached to it,
and which Robert Bolton, like other godfathers and godmothers of the day, had altogether ignored.
She had been already partly brought round, nearly persuaded, in regard to the acceptance of
John Caldigate as her son-in-law. It did not occur to her to do other than hate him. How was
it possible that such a woman should do other than hate the man who had altogether got the
better of her as to the very marrow of her life, the very apple of her eye? But she was alive
to her duty towards her daughter; and when she was told that the man was honest in his dealings,
well-to-do in the world, a professing Christian who was constant in his parish church, she
did not know how to maintain her opinion, that in spite of all this, he was an unregenerate
castaway. Therefore, although she was determined still to hate him, she had almost made up
her mind to enter his house. With these ideas she wrote a long letter to Hester, in which she
promised to have herself taken out to Folking in order that she might be present as godmother
at the baby's baptism. She would lunch at Folking, but must return to Chesterton before dinner.
Even this was a great thing gained.

Then it was arranged that Daniel Bolton should stand as second godfather in place of his brother
Robert.

Chapter XXVI

A Stranger in Cambridge

'I am sorry you will not come out to us to-morrow.' On the day before the christening, which
was at last fixed for a certain Tuesday in the middle of February, John Caldigate went into
Cambridge, and at once called upon the attorney at his office. This he did partly instigated
by his own feelings, and partly in compliance with his wife's wishes. Before that letter had
come he and his brother-in-law had been fast friends; and now, though for a day or two he had
been angry with what he had thought to be unjustifiable interference, he regretted the loss
of such a friend. More than three months had now passed since the letter had come, but his
mind was far from being at ease, and he felt that if trouble should come it would be very well
for him to have Robert Bolton on his side.

'Margaret is going,' said the attorney.

'Why do you not bring her?'

'Days are days with me, my boy. I can't afford to give up a morning for every baby that is born.'

'That of course may be true, and if that is the reason, I have nothing more to say.' As he
spoke he looked in his brother-in-law's face, so as almost to prevent the possibility of continued
pretence.

'Well, Caldigate, it isn't the reason altogether,' said the other. 'If you would have allowed
it to pass without further explanation so would I. But if the truth must be spoken in so many
words, I will confess that I would rather not go out to Folking till I am sure we shall be
no more troubled by your friends in Australia.'

'Why not? Why should you not go out to Folking?'

'Simply because I may have to take an active part against you. I do not suppose it will come
to that, but it is possible. I need not say that I trust there may be nothing of the kind,
but I cannot be sure. It is on the cards.'

'I think that is a hard judgment. Do you mean to say that you believe that woman's statement
not only against mine, but against the whole tenor of my life and character?'

'No; I do not believe the woman's statement. If I did, I should not be talking to you now.
The woman has probably lied, and is probably a tool in the hands of others for raising money,
as you have already suggested. But, according to your own showing there has been much in your
life to authorise the statement. I do not know what does or does not constitute a marriage there.'

'The laws are the same as ours.'

'There at any rate you are wrong. Their marriage laws are not the same as ours, though how
they may differ you and I probably do not accurately know. And they may be altered at any time
as they may please. Let the laws be what they will, it is quite possible, after what you have
told me, that they may bring up evidence which you would find it very difficult to refute.
I don't think it will be so. If I did I should use all my influence to remove my sister at once.'

'You couldn't do it,' said Caldigate, very angrily.

'I tell you what I should endeavour to do. You must excuse me if I stand aloof just at present.
I don't suppose you can defend such a condition of things as you described to me the other day.'

'I do not mean to be put upon my defence,--at any rate by you,' said Caldigate, very angrily.
And then he left the office.

He had come into Cambridge with the intention of calling at Puritan Grange after he had left
the attorney, and when he found himself in the street he walked on in the direction of Chesterton.
He had wished to thank his wife's mother for her concession and had been told by Hester that
if he would call, Mrs. Bolton would certainly see him now. Had there been no letter from the
woman in Australia, he would probably not have obeyed his wife's behest in this matter. His
heart and spirit would then have been without a flaw, and, proud in his own strength and his
own rectitude, he would have declared to himself that the absurd prejudices of a fanatic woman
were beneath his notice. But that letter had been a blow, and the blow, though it had not quelled
him, had weakened his forces. He could conceal the injury done him even from his wife, but
there was an injury. He was not quite the man that he had been before. From day to day, and
from hour to hour, he was always remonstrating with himself because it was so. He was conscious
that in some degree he had been cowed, and was ever fighting against the feeling. His tenderness
to his wife was perhaps increased, because he knew that she still suffered from the letter;
but he was almost ashamed of his own tenderness, as being a sign of weakness. He made himself
very busy in these days,--busy among his brother magistrates, busy among his farming operations,
busy with his tenants, busy among his books, so as to show to those around him that he was
one who could perform all the duties of life, and enjoy all the pleasures, with an open brow
and a clear conscience. He had been ever bold and self-asserting; but now he was perhaps a
little over-bold. But through it all the Australian letter and the Australian woman were present
to him day and night.

It was this resolution not to be quelled that had made him call upon the attorney at his office;
and when he found himself back in the street he was very angry with the man. 'If it pleases
him, let it be so,' he said to himself. 'I can do in the world without him.' And then he thought
of that threat,--when the attorney had said that he would remove his sister. 'Remove her! By
heavens!' He had a stick in his hand, and as he went he struck it angrily against a post. Remove
his wife! All the Boltons in Cambridgeshire could not put a hand upon her, unless by his leave!
For some moments his anger supported him; but after a while that gave way to the old feeling
of discomfort which pervaded him always. She was his wife, and nobody should touch her. Nevertheless
he might find it difficult, as Robert Bolton had said, to prove that that other woman was not
his wife.

Robert Bolton's office was in a small street close to Pembroke College, and when he came out
of it he had intended to walk direct through Trumpington Street and Trinity Street to Chesterton.
But he found it necessary to compose himself and so to arrange his thoughts that he might be
able to answer such foolish questions as Mrs. Bolton would probably ask him without being flurried.
He was almost sure that she had heard nothing of the woman. He did not suspect Robert Bolton
of treachery in that respect; but she would probably talk to him about the iniquity of his
past life generally, and he must be prepared to answer her. It was incumbent upon him to shake
off, before he reached Chesterton, that mixture of alarm and anger which at present dominated
him; and with this object, instead of going straight along the street, he turned into the quadrangle
of King's College, and passing through the gardens and over the bridge, wandered for a while
slowly under the trees at the back of the college. He accused himself of a lack of manliness
in that he allowed himself to be thus cowed. Did he not know that such threats as these were
common? Was it not just what might have been expected from such a one as Crinkett, when Crinkett
was driven to desperation by failing speculations? As he thought of the woman, he shook his
head, looking down upon the ground. The woman had at one time been very dear to him. But it
was clearly now his duty to go on as though there were no such woman as Euphemia Smith, and
no such man as Thomas Crinkett. And as for Robert Bolton, he would henceforth treat him as
though his anger and his suspicions were unworthy of notice. If the man should choose of his
own accord to reassume the old friendly relations,--well and good. No overtures should come
from him--Caldigate. And if the anger and the suspicions endured, why then, he, Caldigate,
could do very well without Robert Bolton.

As he made these resolutions he turned in at a little gate opening into a corner of St. John's
Gardens, with the object of passing through the college back into the streets of the town.
It was not quite his nearest way, but he loved the old buildings, and the trees, and the river,
even in winter. It still was winter, being now the middle of February; but, as it happened,
the air was dry and mild, and the sun was shining. Still, he was surprised at such a time of
the year to see an elderly man apparently asleep on one of the benches which are placed close
to the path. But there he was, asleep, with his two hands on a stick, and his head bent forward
over his stick. It was impossible not to look at the man sleeping there in that way; but Caldigate
would hardly have looked, would hardly have dared to look, could he have anticipated what he
would see. The elderly man was Thomas Crinkett. As he passed he was quite sure that the man
was Thomas Crinkett. When he had gone on a dozen yards, he paused for a moment to consider
what he would do. A dozen different thoughts passed through his mind in that moment of time.
Why was the man there? Why, indeed, could he have come to England except with the view of prosecuting
the demand which he and the woman had made? His presence even in England was sufficient to
declare that this battle would have to be fought. But to Cambridge he could have come with
no other object than that of beginning the attack at once. And then, had he already commenced
his work? He had not at any rate been to Robert Bolton, to whom any one knowing the family
would have first referred him. And why was he sleeping there? Why was he not now at work upon
his project? Again, would it be better at the present moment that he should pass by the man
as though he had not seen him; or should he go back and ask him his purpose? As the thought
passed through his mind, he stayed his step for a moment on the pathway and looked round. The
man had moved his position, and was now sitting with his head turned away but evidently not
asleep. Then it occurred to Caldigate that Crinkett's slumbers had been only a pretence, that
the man had seen and recognised him, and at the moment had not chosen to make himself known.
And it occurred to him also that in a matter of such importance as this he should do nothing
on the spur of the moment,--nothing without consideration. A word spoken to Crinkett, a word
without consideration, might be fatal to him. So he passed on, having stood upon the path hardly
more than a second or two.

Before he had got up to the new buildings of St. John's a cold sweat had come out all over
him. He was conscious of this, and conscious also that for a time he was so confounded by the
apparition of his enemy as to be unable to bring his mind to work properly on the subject.
'Let him do his worst,' he kept on saying to himself; 'let him do his worst.' But he knew that
the brave words, though spoken only to himself, were mere braggadocio No doubt the man would
do his worst, and very bad it would be to him. At the moment he was so cowed by fear that he
would have given half his fortune to have secured the woman's silence,--and the man's. How
much better would it have been had he acceded to the man's first demand as to restitution of
a portion of the sum paid for Polyeuka, before the woman's name had been brought into the matter
at all?

But reflections such as these were now useless and he must do something. It was for his wife's
sake,--he assured himself,--for his wife's sake that he allowed himself to be made thus miserable
by the presence of this wretched creature. What would she not be called upon to suffer? The
woman no doubt would be brought before magistrates and judges, and would be made to swear that
she was his wife. The whole story of his life in Australia would be made public,--and there
was so much that could not be made public without overwhelming her with sorrow! His own father,
too, who had surrendered the estate to him, must know it all. His father hitherto had not heard
the name of Mrs. Smith, and had been told only of Crinkett's dishonest successes and dishonest
failures. When Caldigate had spoken of Crinkett to his father, he had done so with a triumph
as of a man whom he had weighed and measured and made use of,--whose frauds and cunning he
had conquered by his own honesty and better knowledge. Now he could no longer weigh and measure
and make use of Crinkett. Crinkett had been a joke to him in talking with his father. But Crinkett
was no joke now.

While walking through the College quad, he was half stupefied by his confusion, and was aware
that such was his condition. But going out under the gate he paused for a moment and shook
himself. "This could bring him to grief for another,
as I am. But - strangely - he has seen my genius. "

"Now I call your god!" Victoria pleaded. "I implore you, Pescara call
them to me!"

"I think because it is myself," he gasped hoarsely. Now, at this
moment, in what way would it become him to act? He drew himself together, shaking his head
and shoulders,--so as to shake off his weakness,--pressing his foot for a moment on the earth
so as to convince himself of his own firmness, and then he resolved.

