After napping all the afternoon we went to Grosvenor Square. There was only a small, select
party, of about sixteen. Among the guests were Dr. McAll, Hebrew professor in King's College,
Lord Wriothesley Russell, brother of Lord John, and one of the private chaplains of the queen,
and the Archbishop of Canterbury. Dr. McAll is a millenarian. He sat next to C. at table, and
they had some conversation on that subject. He said those ideas had made a good deal of progress
in the English mind.

While I was walking down to dinner with Lord Shaftesbury, he pointed out to me in the hall
the portrait of his distinguished ancestor, Antony Ashley Cooper, Earl of Shaftesbury, whose
name he bears. This ancestor, notwithstanding his sceptical philosophy, did some good things,
as he was the author of the habeas corpus act.

After dinner we went back to the drawing rooms again; and while tea and coffee were being served,
names were constantly being announced, till the rooms were quite full.

Among the earliest who arrived was Mr.----, a mulatto gentleman, formerly British consul at
Liberia. I found him a man of considerable cultivation and intelligence, evincing much good
sense in his observations.

I overheard some one saying in the crowd, "Shaftesbury has been about the chimney sweepers
again in Parliament." I said to Lord Shaftesbury, "I thought that matter of the chimney sweepers
had been attended to long ago, and laws made about it."

"So we have made laws," said he, "but people won't keep them unless we follow them up."

He has a very prompt, cheerful way of speaking, and throws himself into every thing he talks
about with great interest and zeal. He introduced me to one gentleman, I forget his name now,
as the patron of the shoeblacks. On my inquiring what that meant, he said that he had started
the idea of providing employment for poor street boys, by furnishing them with brushes and
blacking, and forming them into regular companies of shoeblacks. Each boy has his' particular
stand, where he blacks the shoes of every passer by who chooses to take the trouble of putting
up his foot and paying his twopence. Lord Shaftesbury also presented me to a lady who had been
a very successful teacher in the ragged schools; also to a gentleman who, he said, had been
very active in the London city missions. Some very ingenious work done in the ragged schools
was set on the table for the company to examine, and excited much interest.

I talked a little while with Lord Wriothesley Russell. From him we derived the idea that the
queen was particularly careful in the training and religious instruction of her children. He
said that she claimed that the young prince should be left entirely to his parents, in regard
to his religious instruction, till he was seven years of age; but that, on examining him at
that time, they were equally surprised and delighted with his knowledge of the Scriptures.
I must remark here, that such an example as the queen sets in the education of her children
makes itself felt through all the families of the kingdom. Domesticity is now the fashion in
high life. I have had occasion to see, in many instances, how carefully ladies of rank instruct
their children. This argues more favorably for the continuance of English institutions than
any thing I have seen. If the next generation of those who are born to rank and power are educated,
in the words of Fenelon, to consider these things "as a ministry," which they hold for the
benefit of the poor, the problem of life in England will become easier of solution. Such are
Lord Shaftesbury's views, and as he throws them out with unceasing fervor in his conversation
and conduct, they cannot but powerfully affect not only his own circle, but all circles through
the kingdom. Lady Shaftesbury is a beautiful and interesting woman, and warmly enters into
the benevolent plans of her husband. A gentleman and lady with whom I travelled said that Lord
and Lady Shaftesbury had visited in person the most forlorn and wretched parts of London, that
they might get, by their own eyesight, a more correct gauge of the misery to be relieved. I
did not see Lord Shaftesbury's children; but, from the crayon likenesses which hung upon the
walls, they must be a family of uncommon beauty.

I talked a little while with the Bishop of Tuam. I was the more interested to do so because
he was from that part of Ireland which Sibyl Jones has spoken of as being in so particularly
miserable a condition. I said, "How are you doing now, in that part of the country? There has
been a great deal of misery there, I hear." He said "There has been, but we have just turned
the corner, and now I hope we shall see better days. The condition of the people has been improved
by emigration and other causes, till the evils have been brought within reach, and we feel
that there is hope of effecting a permanent improvement."

While I was sitting talking, Lord Shaltesbury brought a gentleman and lady, whom he introduced
as Lord Chief Justice Campbell and Lady Strathheden. Lord Campbell is a man of most dignified
and imposing personal presence; tall, with a large frame, a fine, high forehead, and strongly
marked features. Naturally enough, I did not suppose them to be husband and wife, and when
I discovered that they were so, expressed a good deal of surprise at their difference of titles;
to which she replied, that she did not wonder we Americans were sometimes puzzled among the
number of titles. She seemed quite interested to inquire into our manner of living and customs,
and how they struck me as compared with theirs. The letter of Mrs. Tyler was much talked of,
and some asked me if I supposed Mrs. Tyler really wrote it, expressing a little civil surprise
at the style. I told them that I had heard it said that it must have been written by some of
the gentlemen in the family, because it was generally understood that Mrs. Tyler was a very
ladylike person. Some said, "It does us no harm to be reminded of our deficiencies; we need
all the responsibility that can be put upon us." Others said, "It is certain we have many defects;"
but Lord John Campbell said, "There is this difference between our evils and those of slavery:
ours exist contrary to law; those are upheld by law."

I did not get any opportunity of conversing with the Archbishop of Canterbury, though this
is the second time I have been in company with him. He is a most prepossessing man in his appearance--simple,
courteous, mild, and affable. He was formerly Bishop of Chester, and is now Primate of all England.

