     "These islands are very green and fertile, and the breezes are very
     soft, and there may be many things which I do not know, because I
     did not wish to stop, in order to discover and search many islands
     to find gold.  And since these people make signs thus, that they
     wear gold on their arms and legs,--and it is gold, because I showed
     them some pieces which I have,--I cannot fail, with the aid of our
     Lord, in finding it where it is native.  And being in the middle of
     the gulf between these two islands, that is to say, the island of
     Santa Maria and this large one, which I named Fernandina, I found a
     man alone in a canoe who was going from the island of Santa Maria to
     Fernandina, and was carrying a little of his bread which might have
     been about as large as the fist, and a gourd of water, and a piece
     of reddish earth reduced to dust and afterwards kneaded, and some
     dry leaves--[Tobacco]--which must be a thing very much appreciated
     among them, because they had already brought me some of them as a
     present at San Salvador: and he was carrying a small basket of their
     kind, in which he had a string of small glass beads and two blancas,
     by which I knew that he came from the island of San Salvador, and
     had gone from there to Santa Maria and was going to Fernandina.  He
     came to the ship: I caused him to enter it, as he asked to do so,
     and I had his canoe placed on the ship and had everything which he
     was carrying guarded and I ordered that bread and honey be given him
     to eat and something to drink.  And I will go to Fernandina thus and
     will give him everything, which belongs to him, that he may give
     good reports of us.  So that, when your Highnesses send here, our
     Lord pleasing, those who come may receive honour and the Indians
     will give them of everything which they have."

This hurried gabbling about gold and the aid of our Lord, interlarded with fragments of natural
and geographical observation, sounds strangely across the gulf of time and impresses one with
a disagreeable sense of bewildered greed--like that of a dog gulping at the delicacies in his
platter and unwilling to do justice to one for fear the others should escape him; and yet it
is a natural bewilderment, and one with which we must do our best to sympathise.

Fernandina was the name which Columbus had already given to Long Island when he sighted it
from Santa Maria; and he reached it in the evening of Tuesday, October 16th.  The man in the
canoe had arrived before him; and the astute Admiral had the satisfaction of finding that once
more his cleverness had been rewarded, and that the man in the canoe had given such glowing
accounts of his generosity that there was no difficulty about his getting water and supplies.
While the barrels of water were being filled he landed and strolled about in the pleasant groves,
observing the islanders and their customs, and finding them on the whole a little more sophisticated
than those of San Salvador.  The women wore mantillas on their heads and "little pieces of
cotton" round their loins-a sufficiently odd costume; and they appeared to Columbus to be a
little more astute than the other islanders, for though they brought cotton in quantities to
the ships they exacted payment of beads for it. In the charm and wonder of his walk in this
enchanted land he was able for a moment to forget his hunger for gold and to admire the great
branching palm-trees, and the fish that

     "are here so different from ours that it is wonderful.  There are
     some formed like cocks of the finest colours in the world, blue,
     yellow, red and of all colours, and others tinted in a thousand
     manners: and the colours are so fine, that there is not a man who
     does not wonder at them, and who does not take great pleasure in
     seeing them.  Also, there are whales.  I saw no beasts on land of
     any kind except parrots and lizards.  A boy told me that he saw a
     large snake.  I did not see sheep nor goats, nor any other beast;
     although I have been here a very short time, as it is midday, still
     if there had been any, I could not have missed seeing some."

Columbus was not a very good descriptive writer, and he has but two methods of comparison;
either a thing is like Spain, or it is not like Spain.  The verdure was "in such condition
as it is in the month of May in Andalusia; and the trees  were all as different from ours as
day from night, and also the fruits and grasses and the stones and all the things."  The essay
written by a cockney child after a day at the seaside or in the country, is not greatly different
from some of the verbatim passages of this journal; and there is a charm in that fact too,
for it gives us a picture of Columbus, in spite of his hunt for gold and precious stones, wandering,
still a child at heart, in the wonders of the enchanted world to which he had come.

There was trouble on this day, because some of the crew had found an Indian with a piece of
gold in his nose, and they got a scolding from Columbus for not detaining him and bartering
with him for it.  There was bad weather also, with heavy rain and a threatening of tempest;
there was a difference of opinion with Martin Alonso Pinzon about which way they should go
round the island: but the next day the weather cleared, and the wind settled the direction
of their course for them.  Columbus, whose eye never missed anything of interest to the sailor
and navigator, notes thus early a fact which appears in every book of sailing directions for
the Bahama Islands--that the water is so clear and limpid that the bottom can be seen at a
great depth; and that navigation is thus possible and even safe among the rockstrewn coasts
of the islands, when thus performed by sight and with the sun behind the ship.  He was also
keenly alive to natural charm and beauty in the new lands that he was visiting, and there are
unmistakable fragments of himself in the journal that speak eloquently of his first impressions.

But life, even to the discoverer of a New World, does not consist of wandering in the groves,
and listening to the singing birds, and smelling the flowers, and remembering the May nights
of Andalusia.  There was gold to be found and the mainland of Cathay to be discovered, and
a letter, written by the sovereigns at his earnest request, to be delivered to the Great Khan.
The natives had told him of an island called Samoete to the southward, which was said to contain
a quantity of gold.  He sailed thither on the 19th, and called it Isabella; its modern name
is Crooked Island.  He anchored here and found it to be but another step in the ascending scale
of his delight; it was greener and more beautiful than any of the islands he had yet seen.
He spent some time looking for the gold, but could not find any; although he heard of the island
of Cuba, which he took to be the veritable Cipango.  He weighed anchor on October 24th and
sailed south-west, encountering some bad weather on the way; but on Sunday the 28th he came
up with the north coast of Cuba and entered the mouth of a river which is the modern Nuevitas.
To the island of Cuba he gave the name of Juana in honour of the young prince to whom his son
Diego had been appointed a page.

