"Everybody thinks that there is some fraud. There is old Mrs. Montacute Jones,--I don't know
anybody who knows everything better than she does,--and she was saying that you would be driven
by your duty to investigate the matter. 'I daresay he'd prefer to do nothing,' she said, 'but
he must.' I felt that to be so true! Then Mr. Mildmay, who is so very quiet, said that there
would be a lawsuit. Papa absolutely laughed at the idea of the boy being Lord Popenjoy, though
he was always on good terms with your brother. Mr. Houghton says that nobody in society will
give the child the name. Of course he's not very bright, but on matters like that he does know
what he's talking about. When I hear all this I feel it a great deal, Lord George."

"I know what a friend you are."

"Indeed I am. I think very often what I might have been, but could not be; and though I am
not jealous of the happiness and honours of another, I am anxious for your happiness and your
honours." He was sitting near her, on a chair facing the fire, while she was leaning back on
the sofa. He went on staring at the hot coals, flattered, in some sort elate, but very disturbed.
The old feeling was coming back upon him. She was not as pretty as his wife,--but she was,
he thought, more attractive, had more to say for herself, was more of a woman. She could pour
herself into his heart and understand his feelings, whereas Mary did not sympathize with him
at all in this great family trouble. But then Mary was, of course, his wife, and this woman
was the wife of another man. He would be the last man in the world,--so he would have told
himself could he have spoken to himself on the subject,--to bring disgrace on himself and misery
on other people by declaring his love to another man's wife. He was the last man to do an injury
to the girl whom he had made his own wife! But he liked being with his old love, and felt anxious
to say a word to her that should have in it something just a little beyond the ordinary tenderness
of friendship. The proper word, however, did not come to him at that moment. In such moments
the proper word very often will not come. "You are not angry with me for saying so?" she asked.

"How can I be angry?"

"I don't think that there can have been such friendship, as there was between you and me, and
that it should fade and die away, unless there be some quarrel. You have not quarrelled with me?"

"Quarrelled with you? Never!"

"And you did love me once?" She at any rate knew how to find the tender words that were required
for her purpose.

"Indeed I did."

"It did not last very long; did it, Lord George?"

"It was you that--that--. It was you that stopped it."

"Yes, it was I that stopped it. Perhaps I found it easier to--stop than I had expected. But
it was all for the best. It must have been stopped. What could our life have been? I was telling
a friend to mine the other day, a lady, that there are people who cannot afford to wear hearts
inside them. If I had jumped at your offer,--and there was a moment when I would have done so----"

"Was there?"

"Indeed there was, George." The "George" didn't mean quite as much as it might have meant between
others, because they were cousins. "But, if I had, the joint home of us all must have been
in Mr. Price's farm-house."

"It isn't a farm-house." 

A new composition has been discovered called "Hercules glue." This product is comprised using
sufficient thickness, and then being vulcanized under pressure at 250 degrees F. or a little higher.
The material produced in this fashion has been shown to have the strength and durability of
the best leather belts made. Driving belts are usually fastened together by using metal fastenings,
or by sewing the ends together. Recently, there has been an effort to find a glue suitable
for joining the ends of these rugged driving belts. Mr. W.V. Van Wyk, of 30 and 31 Newgate St.,
E.C. has developed such a glue. During a test application performed by David Kirkaldy & Son,
the joint of "Hercules glue," applied to a 4 in. single belt was stronger than the solid leather
itself. The test results showed that under a tensile stress of 2,174 lb., equivalent to 2,860
lb. per square inch of a selected section, the leather didn't hold
but the joint was still intact.

The belt is as thick and pliable at the joint as it is in the main portion of the belt, insuring
freedomm from noise and perfect steadiness. A rough chemical analysis of a sample submitted
was found to consist of gelatine, with a small amount of mineral ingredients. It requires approximately
fifteen minutes for the glue joint to set before it is ready for use. Josef Horadam in Germany
patented a process for preserving glues from decompasition a couple
of years ago.

By adding 8-10 percent of magnesium or calcium chlorides these salts do not compromise the
integrity of the hercules glue in any way, but prevents the glues decomposition. It is possible
that the "Hercules glue" is preserved in a similar manner.
 I suppose the time will come when
it will die away. They say that every plant will fade if it be shut in from the light, and
never opened to the rains of heaven."

"Alas! alas!" he said. "I did not know that you would feel like that."

"Of course I feel. I have had something to do with my life, and I have done this with it! Two
men have honoured me with their choice, and out of the two I have chosen--Mr. Houghton. I comfort
myself by telling myself that I did right;--and I did do right. But the comfort is not very
comforting." Still he sat looking at the fire. He knew that it was open to him to get up and
swear to her that she still had his heart. She could not be angry with him as she had said
as much to himself. And he almost believed at the moment that it was so. He was quite alive
to the attraction of the wickedness, though, having a conscience, he was aware that the wickedness
should, if possible, be eschewed. There is no romance in loving one's own wife. The knowledge
that it is a duty deadens the pleasure. "I did not mean to say all this," she exclaimed at
last, sobbing.

"Adelaide!" he said.

"Do you love me? You may love me without anything wrong."

"Indeed I do." Then there was an embrace, and after that he hurried away, almost without another
word.

CHAPTER XIX.

RATHER "BOISTEROUS."

"After all, he's very dreary!" It was this that Adelaide Houghton spoke to herself as soon
as Lord George had left her. No doubt the whole work of the interview had fallen on to her
shoulders. He had at last been talked into saying that he loved her, and had then run away
frightened by the unusual importance and tragic signification of his own words. "After all,
he's very dreary."

Mrs. Houghton wanted excitement. She probably did like Lord George as well as she liked any
one. Undoubtedly she would have married him had he been able to maintain her as she liked to
be maintained. But, as he had been unable, she had taken Mr. Houghton without a notion on her
part of making even an attempt to love him. When she said that she could not afford to wear
a heart,--and she had said so to various friends and acquaintances,--she did entertain an idea
that circumstances had used her cruelly, that she had absolutely been forced to marry a stupid
old man, and that therefore some little freedom was due to her as a compensation. Lord George
was Lord George, and might, possibly, some day be a marquis. He was at any rate a handsome
man, and he had owned allegiance to her before he had transferred his homage to that rich little
chit Mary Lovelace. She was incapable of much passion, but she did feel that she owed it to
herself to have some revenge on Mary Lovelace. The game as it stood had charms sufficient to
induce her to go on with it; and yet,--after all, he was dreary.

Such was the lady's feeling when she was left alone; but Lord George went away from the meeting
almost overcome by the excitement of the occasion. To him the matter was of such stirring moment
that he could not go home, could not even go to his club. He was so moved by his various feelings,
that he could only walk by himself and consider things. To her that final embrace had meant
very little. What did it signify? He had taken her in his arms and kissed her forehead. It
might have been her lips had he so pleased. But to him it had seemed to mean very much indeed.
There was a luxury in it which almost intoxicated him, and a horror in it which almost quelled
him. That she should so love him as to be actually subdued by her love could not but charm
him. He had none of that strength which arms a man against flatterers;--none of that experience
which strengthens a man against female cajolery. It was to him very serious and very solemn.
There might, perhaps, have been exaggeration in her mode of describing her feelings, but there
could be no doubt in this,--that he had held her in his arms and that she was another man's wife.

The wickedness of the thing was more wicked to him than the charm of it was charming. It was
dreadful to him to think that he had done a thing of which he would have to be ashamed if the
knowledge of it were brought to his wife's ears. That he should have to own himself to have
been wrong to her would tear him to pieces! That he should lord it over her as a real husband,
was necessary to his happiness, and how can a man be a real lord over a woman when he has had
to confess his fault to her, and to beg her to forgive him? A wife's position with her husband
may be almost improved by such asking for pardon. It will enhance his tenderness. But the man
is so lowered that neither of them can ever forget the degradation. And, though it might never
come to that, though this terrible passion might be concealed from her, still it was a grievance
to him and a disgrace that he should have anything to conceal. It was a stain in his own eyes
on his own nobility, a slur upon his escutcheon, a taint in his hitherto unslobbered honesty,
and then the sin of it;--the sin of it! To him it already sat heavy on his conscience. In his
ear, even now, sounded that commandment which he weekly prayed that he might be permitted to
keep. While with her there was hardly left a remembrance of the kiss which he had imprinted
on her brow, his lips were still burning with the fever. Should he make up his mind, now at
once, that he would never, never see her again? Should he resolve that he would write to her
a moving tragic letter,--not a love letter,--in which he would set forth the horrors of unhallowed
love, and tell her that there must be a gulf between them, over which neither must pass till
age should have tamed their passions! As he walked across the park he meditated what would
be the fitting words for such a letter, and almost determined that it should be written. Did
he not owe his first duty to his wife, and was he not bound for her sake to take such a step?
Then, as he wandered alone in Kensington Gardens,--for it had taken him many steps, and occupied
much time to think of it all,--there came upon him an idea that perhaps the lady would not
receive the letter in the proper spirit. Some idea occurred to him of the ridicule which would
befall him should the lady at last tell him that he had really exaggerated matters. And then
the letter might be shown to others. He did love the lady. With grief and shame and a stricken
conscience he owned to himself that he loved her. But he could not quite trust her. And so,
as he walked down towards the Albert Memorial, he made up his mind that he would not write
the letter. But he also made up his mind,--he thought that he made up his mind,--that he would
go no more alone to Berkeley Square.

As he walked on he suddenly came upon his wife walking with Captain De Baron, and he was immediately
struck by the idea that his wife ought not to be walking in Kensington Gardens with Captain
De Baron. The idea was so strong as altogether to expel from his mind for the moment all remembrance
of Mrs. Houghton. He had been unhappy before because he was conscious that he was illtreating
his wife, but now he was almost more disturbed because it seemed to him to be possible that
his wife was illtreating him. He had left her but a few minutes ago,--he thought of it now
as being but a few minutes since,--telling her with almost his last word that she was specially
bound, more bound than other women, to mind her own conduct,--and here she was walking in Kensington
Gardens with a man whom all the world called Jack De Baron? As he approached them his brow
became clouded, and she could see that it was so. She could not but fear that her companion
would see it also. Lord George was thinking how to address them, and had already determined
on tucking his wife under his own arm and carrying her off, before he saw that a very little
way behind them the Dean was walking with--Adelaide Houghton herself. Though he had been more
than an hour wandering about the park he could not understand that the lady whom he had left
in her own house so recently, in apparently so great a state of agitation, should be there
also, in her best bonnet and quite calm. He had no words immediately at command, but she was
as voluble as ever. "Doesn't this seem odd?" she said. "Why, it is not ten minutes since you
left me in Berkeley Square. I wonder what made you come here."

"What made you come?"

"Jack brought me here. If it were not for Jack I should never walk or ride or do anything,
except sit in a stupid carriage. And just at the gate of the gardens we met the Dean and Lady
George."

This was very simple and straightforward. There could be no doubt of the truth of it all. Lady
George had come out with her father and nothing could be more as it ought to be. As to "Jack"
and the lady he did not, at any rate as yet, feel himself justified in being angry at that
arrangement. But nevertheless he was disturbed. His wife had been laughing when he first saw
her, and Jack had been talking, and they had seemed to be very happy together. The Dean no
doubt was there; but still the fact remained that Jack had been laughing and talking with his
wife. He almost doubted whether his wife ought under any circumstances to laugh in Kensington
Gardens. And then the Dean was so indiscreet! He, Lord George, could not of course forbid his
wife to walk with her father;--but the Dean had no idea that any real looking after was necessary
for anybody. He at once gave his arm to his wife, but in two minutes she had dropped it. They
were on the steps of the Albert Memorial, and it was perhaps natural that she should do so.
But he hovered close to her as they were looking at the figures, and was uneasy. "I think it's
the prettiest thing in London," said the Dean, "one of the prettiest things in the world."

"Don't you find it very cold?" said Lord George, who did not at the present moment care very
much for the fine arts.

"We have been walking quick," said Mrs. Houghton, "and have enjoyed it." The Dean with the
two others had now passed round one of the corners. "I wonder," she went on, "I do wonder how
it has come to pass that we should be brought together again so soon!"

"We both happened to come the same way," said Lord George, who was still thinking of his wife.

"Yes;--that must have been it. Though is it not a strange coincidence? My mind had been so
flurried that I was glad to get out into the fresh air. When shall I see you again?" He couldn't
bring himself to say--never. There would have been a mock-tragic element about the single word
which even he felt. And yet, here on the steps of the monument, there was hardly an opportunity
for him to explain at length the propriety of their both agreeing to be severed. "You wish
to see me;--don't you?" she asked.

"I hardly know what to say."

"But you love me!" She was now close to him, and there was no one else near enough to interfere.
She was pressing close up to him, and he was sadly ashamed of himself. And yet he did love
her. He thought that she had never looked so well as at the present moment. "Say that you love
me," she said, stamping her foot almost imperiously.

"You know I do, but--"

"But what."

"I had better come to you again and tell you all." The words were no sooner out of his mouth
than he remembered that he had resolved that he would never go to her again. But yet, after
what had passed, something must be done. He had also made up his mind that he wouldn't write.
He had quite made up his mind about that. The words that are written remain. It would perhaps
be better that he should go to her and tell her everything.

"Of course you will come again," she said. "What is it ails you? You are unhappy because she
is here with my cousin Jack?" It was intolerable to him that any one should suspect him of
jealousy. "Jack has a way of getting intimate with people, but it means nothing." It was dreadful
to him that an allusion should be made to the possibility of anybody "meaning anything" with
his wife.

Just at this moment Jack's voice was heard coming back round the corner, and also the laughter
of the Dean. Captain De Baron had been describing the persons represented on the base of the
monument, and had done so after some fashion of his own that had infinitely amused not only
Lady George but her father also. "You ought to be appointed Guide to the Memorial," said the Dean.

"If Lady George will give me a testimonial no doubt I might get it, Dean," said Jack.

"I don't think you know anything about any of them," said Lady George. "I'm sure you've told
me wrong about two. You're the last man in the world that ought to be a guide to anything."

"Will you come and be guide, and I'll just sweep the steps!"

Lord George heard the last words, and allowed himself to be annoyed at them, though he felt
them to be innocent. He knew that his wife was having a game of pleasant play, like a child
with a pleasant play-fellow. But then he was not satisfied that his wife should play like a
child,--and certainly not with such a playfellow. He doubted whether his wife ought to allow
playful intimacy from any man. Marriage was to him a very serious thing. Was he not prepared
to give up a real passion because he had made this other woman his wife? In thinking over all
this his mind was not very logical, but he did feel that he was justified in exacting particularly
strict conduct from her because he was going to make Mrs. Houghton understand that they two,
though they loved each other, must part. If he could sacrifice so much for his wife, surely
she might sacrifice something for him.

They returned altogether to Hyde Park Corner and then they separated. Jack went away towards
Berkeley Square with his cousin; the Dean got himself taken in a cab to his club; and Lord
George walked his wife down Constitution Hill towards their own home. He felt it to be necessary
that he should say something to his wife; but, at the same time, was specially anxious that
he should give her no cause to suspect him of jealousy. Nor was he jealous, in the ordinary
sense of the word. He did not suppose for a moment that his wife was in love with Jack De Baron,
or Jack with his wife. But he did think that whereas she had very little to say to her own
husband she had a great deal to say to Jack. And he was sensible, also, of a certain unbecomingness
in such amusement on her part. She had to struggle upwards, so as to be able to sustain properly
the position and dignity of Lady George Germain, and the possible dignity of the Marchioness
of Brotherton. She ought not to want playfellows. If she would really have learned the names
of all those artists on the base of the Memorial, as she might so easily have done, there would
have been something in it. A lady ought to know, at any rate, the names of such men. But she
had allowed this Jack to make a joke of it all, and had rather liked the joke. And the Dean
had laughed loud,--more like the son of a stable-keeper than a Dean. Lord George was almost
more angry with the Dean than with his wife. The Dean, when at Brotherton, did maintain a certain
amount of dignity; but here, up in London, he seemed to be intent only on "having a good time,"
like some schoolboy out on a holiday.

"Were you not a little loud when you were on the steps of the Memorial?" he said.

"I hope not, George; not too loud."

"A lady should never be in the least loud, nor for the matter of that would a gentleman either
if he knew what he was about."

She walked on a little way, leaning on his arm in silence, considering whether he meant anything
by what he was saying, and how much he meant. She felt almost sure that he did mean something
disagreeable, and that he was scolding her. "I don't quite know what you mean by loud, George?
We were talking, and of course wanted to make each other hear. I believe with some people loud
means--vulgar. I hope you didn't mean that."

He certainly would not tell his wife that she was vulgar. "There is," he said, "a manner of
talking which leads people on to--to--being boisterous."

"Boisterous, George? Was I boisterous?"

"I think your father was a little."

She felt herself blush beneath her veil as she answered. "Of course if you tell me anything
about myself, I will endeavour to do as you tell me; but, as for papa, I am sure he knows how
to behave himself. I don't think he ought to be found fault with because he likes to amuse
himself."

"And that Captain De Baron was very loud," said Lord George, conscious that though his ground
might be weak in reference to the Dean, he could say what he pleased about Jack De Baron.

"Young men do laugh and talk, don't they, George?"

"What they do in their barracks, or when they are together, is nothing to you or me. What such
a one may do when he is in company with my wife is very much to me, and ought to be very much
to you."

"George," she said, again pausing for a moment, "do you mean to tell me that I have misbehaved
myself? Because, if so, speak it out at once."

"My dear, that is a foolish question for you to ask. I have said nothing about misbehaviour,
and you ought, at any rate, to wait till I have done so. I should be very sorry to use such
a word, and do not think that I shall ever have occasion. But surely you will admit that there
may be practices, and manners, and customs on which I am at liberty to speak to you. I am older
than you."

"Husbands, of course, are older than their wives, but wives generally know what they are about
quite as well as their husbands."

"Mary, that isn't the proper way to take what I say. You have a very peculiar place to fill
in the world,--a place for which your early life could not give you the very fittest training."

"Then why did you put me there?"

"Because of my love, and also because I had no doubt whatever as to your becoming fit. There
is a levity which is often pretty and becoming in a girl, in which a married woman in some
ranks of life may, perhaps, innocently indulge, but which is not appropriate to higher positions."

"This is all because I laughed when Captain De Baron mispronounced the men's names. I don't
know anything peculiar in my position. One would suppose that I was going to be made a sort
of female bishop, or to sit all my life as a chairwoman, like that Miss Mildmay. Of course
I laugh when things are said that make me laugh. And as for Captain De Baron, I think he is
very nice. Papa likes him, and he is always at the Houghtons, and I cannot agree that he was
loud and vulgar, or boisterous, because he made a few innocent jokes in Kensington Gardens."

He perceived now, for the first time since he had known her, that she had a temper of her own,
which he might find some difficulty in controlling. She had endured gently enough his first
allusions to herself, but had risen up in wrath against him from the moment in which he had
spoken disparagingly of her father. At the moment he had nothing further to say. He had used
what eloquence there was in him, what words he had collected together, and then walked home
in silence. But his mind was full of the matter; and though he made no further allusion on
that day, or for some subsequent days either to this conversation or to his wife's conduct
in the park, he had it always in his mind. He must be the master, and in order that he might
be master the Dean must be as little as possible in the house. And that intimacy with Jack
De Baron must be crushed,--if only that she might be taught that he intended to be master.

Two or three days passed by, and during those two or three days he did not go to Berkeley Square.

CHAPTER XX.

BETWEEN TWO STOOLS.

In the middle of the next week the Dean went back to Brotherton. Before starting he had an
interview with Lord George which was not altogether pleasant; but otherwise he had thoroughly
enjoyed his visit. On the day on which he started he asked his host what inquiries he intended
to set on foot in reference to the validity of the Italian marriage and the legitimacy of the
Italian baby. Now Lord George had himself in the first instance consulted the Dean on this
very delicate subject, and was therefore not entitled to be angry at having it again mentioned;
but nevertheless he resented the question as an interference. "I think," he replied, "that
at present nothing had better be said upon the subject."

"I cannot agree with you there, George."

"Then I am afraid I must ask you to be silent without agreeing with me."

The Dean felt this to be intentionally uncivil. They two were in a boat together. The injury
to be done, if there were an injury, would affect the wife as much as the husband. The baby
which might some day be born, and which might be robbed of his inheritance, would be as much
the grandchild of the Dean of Brotherton as of the old Marquis. And then perhaps there was
present to the Dean some unacknowledged feeling that he was paying and would have to pay for
the boat. Much as he revered rank, he was not disposed to be snubbed by his son-in-law, because
his son-in-law was a nobleman. "You mean to tell me that I am to hold my tongue," he said angrily.

"For the present I think we had both better do so."

"That may be, as regards any discussion of the matter with outsiders. I am not at all disposed
to act apart from you on a subject of such importance to us both. If you tell me that you are
advised this way or that, I should not, without very strong ground, put myself in opposition
to that advice; but I do expect that you will let me know what is being done."

"Nothing is being done."

"And also that you will not finally determine on doing nothing without consulting me." Lord
George drew himself up and bowed, but made no further reply; and then the two parted, the Dean
resolving that he would be in town again before long, and Lord George reselving that the Dean
should spend as little time as possible in his house. Now, there had been an undertaking, after
a sort, made by the Dean,--a compact with his daughter contracted in a jocose fashion,--which
in the existing circumstances was like to prove troublesome. There had been a question of expenditure
when the house was furnished,--whether there should or should not be a carriage kept. Lord
George had expressed an opinion that their joint means would not suffice to keep a carriage.
Then the Dean had told his daughter that he would allow her £300 a-year for her own expenses,
to include the brougham,--for it was to be no more than a brougham,--during the six months
they would be in London, and that he would regard this as his subscription towards the household.
Such a mode of being generous to his own child was pretty enough. Of course the Dean would
be a welcome visitor. Equally, of course, a son-in-law may take any amount of money from a
father-in-law as a portion of his wife's fortune. Lord George, though he had suffered some
inward qualms, had found nothing in the arrangement to which he could object while his friendship
with the deanery was close and pleasant. But now, as the Dean took his departure, and as Mary,
while embracing her father, said something of his being soon back, Lord George remembered the
compact with inward grief, and wished that there had been no brougham.

In the mean time he had not been to Berkeley Square; nor was he at all sure that he would go
there. A distant day had been named, before that exciting interview in the square, on which
the Houghtons were to dine in Munster Court. The Mildmays were also to be there, and Mrs. Montacute
Jones, and old Lord Parachute, Lord George's uncle. That would be a party, and there would
be no danger of a scene then. He had almost determined that, in spite of his promise, he would
not go to Berkeley Square before the dinner. But Mrs. Houghton was not of the same mind. A
promise on such a subject was a sacred thing, and therefore she wrote the following note to
Lord George at his club. The secrecy which some correspondence requires certainly tends to
make a club a convenient arrangement. "Why don't you come as you said you would? A." In olden
times, fifteen or twenty years ago, when telegraph wires were still young, and messages were
confined to diplomatic secrets, horse-racing, and the rise and fall of stocks, lovers used
to indulge in rapturous expressions which would run over pages; but the pith and strength of
laconic diction has now been taught to us by the self-sacrificing patriotism of the Post Office.
We have all felt the vigour of telegrammatic expression, and, even when we do not trust the
wire, we employ the force of wiry language. "Wilt thou be mine?--M. N.," is now the ordinary
form of an offer of marriage by post; and the answer seldom goes beyond "Ever thine--P. Q."
Adelaide Houghton's love-letter was very short, but it was short from judgment and with a settled
purpose. She believed that a long epistle declaratory of her everlasting but unfortunate attachment
would frighten him. These few words would say all that she had to say, and would say it safely.
He certainly had promised that he would go to her, and, as a gentleman, he was bound to keep
his word. He had mentioned no exact time, but it had been understood that the visit was to
be made at once. He would not write to her. Heaven and earth! How would it be with him if Mr.
Houghton were to find the smallest scrap from him indicating improper affection for Mrs. Houghton?
He could not answer the note, and therefore he must go at once.

He went into a deserted corner of a drawing-room at his club, and there Seated himself for
half an hour's meditation. How should he extricate himself from this dilemma? In what language
should he address a young and beautiful woman devoted to him, but whose devotion he was bound
to repudiate? He was not voluble in conversation, and he was himself aware of his own slowness.
It was essential to him that he should prepare beforehand almost the very words for an occasion
of such importance,--the very words and gestures and action. Would she not fly into his arms,
or at least expect that he should open his own? That must be avoided. There must be no embracing.
And then he must at once proceed to explain all the evils of this calamitous passion;--how
he was the husband of another wife; how she was the wife of another husband; how they were
bound by honour, by religion, and equally by prudence to remember the obligations they had
incurred. He must beg her to be silent while he said all this, and then he would conclude by
assuring her that she should always possess his steadiest friendship. The excogitation of this
took long, partly because his mind was greatly exercised in the matter, and partly through
a nervous desire to postpone the difficult moment. At last, however, he seized his hat and
went away straight to Berkeley Square. Yes, Mrs. Houghton was at home. He had feared that there
was but little chance that she should be out on the very day on which she knew that he would
get her note. "Oh, so you have come at last," she said as soon as the drawing-room door was
closed. She did not get up from her chair, and there was therefore no danger of that immediate
embrace which he had felt that it would be almost equally dangerous to refuse or to accept.

"Yes," he said, "I have come."

"And now sit down and make yourself comfortable. It's very bad out of doors, isn't it?"

"Cold, but dry."

"With a wretched east wind. I know it, and I don't mean to stir out the whole day. So you may
put your hat down, and not think of going for the next hour and a half." It was true that he
had his hat still in his hand, and he deposited it forthwith on the floor, feeling that had
he been master of the occasion, he would have got rid of it less awkwardly. "I shouldn't wonder
if Mary were to be here by and by. There was a sort of engagement that she and Jack De Baron
were to come and play bagatelle in the back drawing-room; but Jack never comes if he says he
will, and I daresay she has forgotten all about it."

He found that his purpose was altogether upset. In the first place, he could hardly begin about
her unfortunate passion when she received him just as though he were an ordinary acquaintance;
and then the whole tenour of his mind was altered by this allusion to Jack De Baron. Had it
come to this, that he could not get through a day without having Jack De Baron thrown at his
head? He had from the first been averse to living in London; but this was much worse than he
had expected. Was it to be endured that his wife should make appointments to play bagatelle
with Jack De Baron by way of passing her time? "I had heard nothing about it," he said with
gloomy, truthful significance. It was impossible for him to lie even by a glance of his eye
or a tone of his voice. He told it all at once; how unwilling he was that his wife should come
out on purpose to meet this man, and how little able he felt himself to prevent it.

"Of course dear Mary has to amuse herself," said the lady, answering the man's look rather
than his words. "And why should she not?"

"I don't know that bagatelle is a very improving occupation."

"Or Jack a very improving companion, perhaps. But I can tell you, George, that there are more
dangerous companions than poor Jack. And then, Mary, who is the sweetest, dearest young woman
I know, is not impulsive in that way. She is such a very child. I don't suppose she understands
what passion means. She has the gaiety of a lark, and the innocence. She is always soaring
upwards, which is so beautiful."

"I don't know that there is much soaring upwards in bagatelle."

"Nor in Jack De Baron, perhaps. But we must take all that as we find it. Of course Mary will
have to amuse herself. She will never live such a life as your sisters live at Manor Cross.
The word that best describes her disposition is--gay. But she is not mischievous."

"I hope not."

"Nor is she--passionate. You know what I mean." He did know what she meant, and was lost in
amazement at finding that one woman, in talking of another, never contemplated the idea that
passion could exist in a wife for her husband. He was to regard himself as safe, not because
his wife loved himself, but because it was not necessary to her nature to be in love with any
one! "You need not be afraid," she went on to say. "I know Jack au fond. He tells me everything;
and should there be anything to fear, I will let you know at once."

But what had all this to do with the momentous occasion which had brought him to Berkeley Square?
He was almost beginning to be sore at heart because she had not thrown herself into his arms.
There was no repetition of that "But you do love me?" which had been so very alarming but at
the same time so very exciting on the steps of the Albert Memorial. And then there seemed to
be a probability that the words which he had composed with so much care at his club would be
altogether wasted. He owed it to himself to do or to say something, to allude in some way to
his love and hers. He could not allow himself to be brought there in a flurry of excitement,
and there to sit till it was time for him to go, just as though it were an ordinary morning
visit. "You bade me come," he said, "and so I came."

"Yes, I did bid you come. I would always have you come."

"That can hardly be; can it?"

"My idea of a friend,--of a man friend, I mean, and a real friend--is some one to whom I can
say everything, who will do everything for me, who will come if I bid him and will like to
stay and talk to me just as long as I will let him; who will tell me everything, and as to
whom I may be sure that he likes me better than anybody else in the world, though he perhaps
doesn't tell me so above once a month. And then in return----"

"Well, what in return?"

"I should think a good deal about him, you know; but I shouldn't want always to be telling
him that I was thinking about him. He ought to be contented with knowing how much he was to
me. I suppose that would not suffice for you?"

Lord George was disposed to think that it would suffice, and that the whole matter was now
being represented to him in a very different light than that in which he had hitherto regarded
it. The word "friend" softened down so many asperities! With such a word in his mind he need
not continually scare himself with the decalogue. All the pleasure might be there, and the
horrors altogether omitted. There would, indeed, be no occasion for his eloquence; but he had
already become conscious that at this interview his eloquence could not be used. She had given
everything so different a turn! "Why not suffice for me?" he said. "Only this,--that all I
did for my friend I should expect her to do for me."

"But that is unreasonable. Who doesn't see that in the world at large men have the best of
it almost in everything. The husband is not only justified in being a tyrant, but becomes contemptible
if he is not so. A man has his pocket full of money; a woman is supposed to take what he gives
her. A man has all manner of amusements."

"What amusements have I?"

"You can come to me."

"Yes, I can do that."

"I cannot go to you. But when you come to me,--if I am to believe that I am really your friend,--then
I am to be the tyrant of the moment. Is it not so? Do you think you would find me a hard tyrant?
I own to you freely that there is nothing in the world I like so much as your society. Do I
not earn by that a right to some obedience from you, to some special observance?"

