The Welshmen had partially engaged him to preach for them the ensuing year, but something they
had heard of him changed their minds, and they were about appointing a meeting to investigate
his conduct, when they were informed of his illness, and concluded to let it pass. His son,
with whom he lived, became deranged, and his oldest daughter on whom he was greatly dependent,
had been dismissed from school, where she had been for some time engaged in teaching. All these
unpleasant circumstances in his sickly state weighed heavily upon his proud heart; and he not
only declined in health, but sank into a state of melancholy and remorse for his past course
of living.

I called to see him as he lay writhing in agony, his sunken eyes gleaming wildly, rolling and
tossing from side to side, while great drops of perspiration stood upon his forehead, continually
lamenting his misspent time, and the life he had led! He took my hand in his cold, bony fingers,
thanking me that I did not so despise him, that I could not come to see him in his sorrow and
affliction. Generally, however, when he raved and talked of his wicked life, his family excluded
all persons from his room except his attendants.

Pride, which had ever been his besetting sin, displayed itself in his conduct to the last,
for he had a lengthy will made, dispensing some sixteen hundred dollars to different individuals,
when he must have known that his whole possessions would not amount to half that sum. As I
looked upon him I could but reflect on the mysterious ways of Providence. Before me lay a man,
who had for years arrayed himself against me, using all his influence as a man and a minister
to injure me, by setting Lewis forward in his wickedness; his family living in extravagance
and a style far beyond their means, while mine had labored hard and were sometimes destitute,
often harassed and perplexed on every side by himself and party. And for what? Because I would
not join hands with iniquity, and deeds of darkness. Notwithstanding the contrast, when I heard
his bitter lamentations and self-reproaches, I could lift my heart to God, in gratitude for
His protecting goodness, which had preserved me an honest man. I had often erred no doubt,
but it had never been designedly; and never did I value a good conscience more than when standing
by the death-bed of Benjamin Paul, who now had passed the Jordan of death; and it is enough
to know that his future, whether of joy or woe, will be meted out to him, by a merciful and
just God,--nevertheless, his last moments on earth were such as ought to arouse every professed
Christian, to redoubled diligence in watchfulness and prayer, lest they fall into temptation,--
lest they determine to become rich, and thereby fall into diverse and hurtful lusts, and pierce
themselves through with many sorrows.

Soon after the event above narrated, a law was passed in the Province, allowing each township
to elect three commissioners, whose duty it should be, to transact the public business pertaining
to the township. Each township should also elect one township clerk, whose business it should
be, to hold and keep all moneys, books, and papers belonging to said town; with power to administer
oaths, and in fact, he, with the commissioners, were to constitute a board, possessing all
the power of a court, in relation to township business.

In our colony, located in the township of Bidulph, the colored people were a large majority
of the inhabitants, which gave us the power to elect commissioners from our own settlement,
and therefore, three black men where duly chosen, who entered on the duties of their office,
while your humble servant, A. Steward, was elected township clerk, with all the responsibility
of the office resting upon him and the same power given him as though he had been born in Her
Britannic Majesty's dominion, with a face as white as the driven snow. I felt the responsibility
of my office, but not more deeply than I did this assurance of entire confidence, and respect
shown me by my townsmen, after all the cruel persecutions I had met; after all the accusations
of theft, forgery, &c., that vicious person could bring against me.

The Rev. Nathaniel Paul, with his lady, arrived at Wilberforce in the spring of 1835, to the
great joy of the colonists, to find that his brother had gone the way of all the earth, and
his remains quietly resting on his own premises, where his afflicted family still resided.

In the colony there was a great deal of excitement regarding the course our agent would pursue,
and all waited with anxious expectancy to see him enrich the treasury with his long-promised
collections.

We had agreed, on sending him forth as an agent for the colony, to give him fifty dollars per
month for his services, besides bearing his expenses.

The reverend gentleman, charged, on his return to the colony, the sum specified, for four years,
three months and twenty days. We spent several days in auditing his account, with increased
fearful forebodings. We found his receipts to be, in the United Kingdoms of Great Britain,
one thousand six hundred and eighty-three pounds, nineteen shillings; or, eight thousand and
fifteen dollars, eighty cents. His expenditures amounted to one thousand four hundred and three
pounds, nineteen shillings; or, seven thousand and nineteen dollars, eighty cents. Then his
wages for over four years, at fifty dollars per month, left a balance against the board of
several hundred dollars, which we had no funds to cancel, inasmuch as the reverend gentleman
had paid us nothing of all he had collected in Europe, nor even paid a farthing toward liquidating
the debts incurred for his outfit and expenses.

There was also in Mr. Paul's charge against the board of managers, an item of two hundred dollars,
which he had paid to Wm. Loyd Garrison, while that gentleman was also in England; but by whose
authority he had paid or given it, it was hard to determine. We gave him no orders to make
donations of any kind. To take the liberty to do so, and then to charge it to our poor and
suffering colony, seemed hard to bear; still we allowed the charge. Had we, in our straitened
and almost destitute circumstances, made a donation of that, to us, large sum of money to Mr.
Garrison or any body else, certainly we should, at least, have had the credit of it; and as
Mr. Garrison had made no acknowledgment of the receipt, I wrote him on the subject, and his
answer will be found, heading our correspondence, in this volume.

Not a dollar did the treasurer ever receive of the Rev. N. Paul, unless we call the donations
he had made without our permission, a payment. He did, it is true, award to the board, the
sum of two hundred dollars, paid by him to Mr. Garrison, and fifty dollars more given by himself
to Mr. Nell, on his departure from England. Not a farthing could we get of him; and in short,
as far as the monied interest of the colony was concerned, his mission proved an entire failure.
How much good the reverend gentleman may have done in spreading anti-slavery truth, during
his stay in Europe, is not for me to say. The English, at that time held slaves; and report
speaks well of his labors and endeavors to open the eyes of that nation to the sin of slavery
and the injustice of the colonization scheme. It is said that he continually addressed crowded
and deeply interested audiences, and that many after hearing him, firmly resolved to exert
themselves, until every chain was broken and every bondman freed beneath the waving banner
of the British Lion. Perhaps his arduous labors assisted in freeing the West India islands
of the hateful curse of Slavery; if so, we shall not so much, regret the losses and severe
trials, it was ours to bear at that time.

The indignant and disappointed colonists, however, took no such view of his mission; and knowing
as they did, that he had paid not a cent of cash into the treasury, nor liquidated one debt
incurred on his account, they became excited well nigh to fury,--so much so, that at one time
we found it nearly impossible to restrain them from having recourse to Lynch law. They thought
that the reverend gentleman must have large sums of money at his command somewhere--judging
from his appearance and mode of living, and that a little wholesome punishment administered
to his reverence, by grave Judge Lynch, enthroned upon a "cotton bale," might possibly bring
him to terms, and induce him to disgorge some of his ill-gotten wealth, which he so freely
lavished upon himself, and was withholding from those to whose wants it had been kindly contributed.

Just, as was their dissatisfaction, I was satisfied by the examination of his accounts, that
he had spent nearly all of the money collected for us; his expenses had been considerable;
beside, he had fallen in love, during his stay in England, with a white woman, and I suppose
it must have required both time and money to woo and win so fine and fair an English lady,
said also to possess quite a little sum of money, that is, several thousand dollars, all of
which our poor, little suffering colony must pay for,--the reverend gentleman's statement to
the contrary notwithstanding.

We succeeded at last, after a tedious effort, in satisfying the minds of the settlers to the
extent, that a violent outbreak was no longer to be feared or dreaded. When all was quiet in
the colony, I ventured to make my first call on the wife of N. Paul, who was then stopping
with the widow of the late Rev. B. Paul, residing some three miles from us.

The houses of the colonists were generally built of logs, hewn on both sides, the spaces chinked
with mortar, and the roof constructed of boards. The lower part was generally left in one large
room, and when another apartment was desired, it was made by drawing a curtain across it. When
we arrived at the residence of Mrs. Paul, we were immediately ushered into the presence of
Mrs. Nathaniel Paul, whom we found in an inner apartment, made by drawn curtains, carpeted
in an expensive style, where she was seated like a queen in state,--with a veil floating from
her head to the floor; a gold chain encircling her neck, and attached to a gold watch in her
girdle; her fingers and person sparkling with costly jewelry. Her manners were stiff and formal
nor was she handsome, but a tolerably fair looking woman, of about thirty years of age: and
this was the wife of our agent for the poor Wilberforce colony!

N. Paul had now settled his business with the colonists, and being about to leave for the States,
we appealed to his honor as a man and a Christian, to call at Rochester and pay the seven hundred
dollar bank debt, for which he was justly and legally holden, and relieve honorably, those
kind gentlemen who had raised the money for him. He well knew the condition of our friend E.
Peck, and that the names of some of our colored friends were also attached to the note; all
of whom were relying implicitly on his or our honor to pay the obligation. That we had no funds
in the treasury he was well aware; also, that all were deeply concerned about that debt. All
this he knew; and in answer to our earnest and repeated injunction, he promised most faithfully
and solemnly that he would call at Rochester, and take up the note. On those conditions he
was allowed to leave the colony, and when parting with me, no more to meet in this life, his
last assurance was, that he would cancel that obligation. What then could we think of his word,
when we learned soon after that he passed Rochester, without calling, direct to Albany; nor
did he ever return, or make any explanation of his conduct; nor give any reason why his promise
was not redeemed and the money paid.

He preached in Albany until his health failed, then he was obliged to live the best way he
could, and at last to depend on charity.

His disease was dropsy, from which he suffered deeply, being unable to lie down for some time
previous to his death. I have been told that his domestic life was far from a peaceable or
happy one, and that in poverty, sorrow and affliction, he lingered on a long time, till death
at last closed the scene.

CHAPTER XXXI.

MY FAMILY RETURN TO ROCHESTER.

I was now seriously meditating a return to Rochester. My purpose in going to Canada, has already
been made known to the reader, as well as some of the disappointments I met, and some of the
trials and difficulties I had to encounter.

Now, after laboring, and suffering persecution for about five years, my way was comparatively
clear; still I wished to leave the Province and return to the States, in which prospect my
family greatly rejoiced. Doubtless most persons in the position I then occupied, would have
chosen to remain; but for several reasons, I did not.

Notwithstanding I had been during my youth, a poor, friendless, and illiterate slave, I had,
through the mercy of God and the kindness of friends, not only obtained my freedom, but I had
by the industry and perseverance of a few years, acquired a tolerable English education, established
a profitable business, built for myself a good and extensive business reputation, and had laid
the foundation for increasing wealth and entire independence.

Indeed, so far as a competency is concerned, I possessed that when I left Rochester. My house
and land was paid for; my store also, and the goods it contained were free from debt; beside,
I had several hundred dollars in the bank for future use,--nor do I boast, when I say that
the comfort and happiness of myself and family, required no further exertion on my part to
better our worldly condition. We were living in one of the best countries on the earth, surrounded
by friends,--good and intelligent society, and some of the noblest specimens of Christian philanthropy
in the world. My wife and children, had not only been accustomed to the comforts, if not the
luxuries of life, but also to associate with persons of refinement and cultivation; and although
they had willingly accompanied me to Canada, where they had experienced little less than care,
labor and sorrow, it cannot be thought very strange that they should desire to return. We were
colored people to be sure, and were too often made to feel the weight of that cruel prejudice,
which small minds with a perverted education, know so well how to heap upon the best endeavors
of our oppressed race. Yet truth and justice to my friends, compel me to say, that after a
short acquaintance, I have usually been treated with all that kindness and confidence, which
should exist between man and man.

At my house of entertainment in Canada, it was not uncommon for gentlemen of my former acquaintances,
to stop for a friendly chat; merchants, journeying through our settlement, after goods, would
frequently call, with their money, watches, and other valuables, carefully concealed about
their persons; but when they learned our name, and had become acquainted a little, they would
not only freely expose their wealth, but often place all their money and valuables in my hands,
for safe keeping; nor was their confidence ever misplaced to my knowledge.

Another thing: when I went to Wilberforce, I supposed that the colonists would purchase the
whole township of Bidulph, and pay for it, which might have been done, had they been fortunate
enough to put forward better men. Then when we had a sufficient number of inhabitants, we could
have sent a member to Parliament, one of our own race, to represent the interests of our colony.
In all this we were disappointed. The Canada Company, in their unjust judgment of a whole people,
by one dishonest man, had stopped the sale of lands to colored persons, which of course, put
an end to the emigration of respectable and intelligent colored men to that place; nor was
there any prospect of a favorable change. Moreover, the persecutions which gave rise to the
colony, had in a great measure ceased; anti-slavery truth was taking effect on the minds of
the people, and God was raising up many a friend for the poor slave, to plead with eloquent
speech and tears, the cause of the dumb and down-trodden.

These, with other considerations, influenced me in my decision to leave Canada. As soon, however,
as my intentions were made known, I was importuned on all sides, by persons both in and out
of the settlement, to remain awhile longer, at least. This will be seen by a reference to the
appendix.

After due deliberation, I concluded to send my family to the States, and remain myself, until
my year should terminate, for which I had been elected township clerk. In accordance with this
determination, I made preparation to take my family to Port Stanley, forty miles distant. But
what a contrast was there between our leaving Rochester, five years before, and our removing
from the colony! Then, we had five two-horse wagon loads of goods and furniture, and seven
in family; now, our possessions were only a few articles, in a one-horse wagon, with an addition
of two members to our household! The settlers collected about us, to take an affectionate leave
of my wife and children; but tears and sobs, prevented an utterance of more than a "God bless
you," and a few like expressions. The scene was indeed an affecting one: all the weary days
of our labor; all the trials and difficulties we had passed; all the sweet communion we had
enjoyed in our religious and social meetings; all the acts of neighborly kindness, seemed now
to be indelibly impressed on every memory, and we felt that a mutual regard and friendship
had bound us closer to each other, in the endearing bonds of Christian brotherhood-- bonds
not to be broken by the adverse scenes incident to frail human life.

Arrived at Port Stanley, we were kindly entertained by a Mr. White, a fugitive slave from Virginia,
who owned a snug little farm on the bank of Kettle Creek, and who appeared to be in a good
and prosperous condition. Being detained there, waiting for a boat, on which I was anxious
to see my family comfortably situated before I left them, I was aroused at an early hour on
the second morning of our stay, by a loud rapping at the door; and hearing myself inquired
for, I dressed myself immediately, and followed Mr. White into the sitting room, where I saw
two strange men, armed with bludgeons! I soon learned, however, that one of them was the under-sheriff,
who had come to arrest me for a debt of about forty dollars, and the other armed man had come
to assist him, I assured them I was ready to accompany them back to London, which I was obliged
to do, a prisoner, leaving my family among comparative strangers. The debt had become due to
a man who had worked for us in the building of a saw-mill. I arranged the matter without going
to jail, but before I could return to Port Stanley, my family, kindly assisted by Mr. White,
had departed for Buffalo. The weather was cold and the lake very rough, but they safely arrived
in Rochester, after a journey of three days. During their passage up the lake my oldest daughter
took a severe cold, from which she never recovered.

I returned to the colony to attend to the duties of my office, and to close my business with
the colony, preparatory to joining my family, who were now settled in Rochester, but in very
different circumstances from those in which they had left it. I had deposited quite a sum of
money in the Rochester Bank; but our continual expenditures at Wilberforce, in my journeyings
for the benefit of the colony, and in the transacting of business pertaining to its interests,
had left not one dollar for the support of my family, or to give me another start in business.
Nevertheless, I felt willing to submit the case to Him who had known the purity of my intentions,
and who had hitherto "led me through scenes dark and drear," believing he would not forsake
me now, in this time of need.

Consoling myself with these reflections, I renewed my endeavors to do my best, leaving the
event with my God.

CHAPTER XXXII.

THE LAND AGENT AND THE SQUATTER.

I have named, I believe, that all the colored people, who purchased lands of Lewis, could get
no deed nor any remuneration for their improvements. This they thought hard and unfair. Some
had built a house and barn, cleared land, &c.; but when they wished to pay for their farms,
they could get no deed, and were obliged to lose all their labor.

This raised such a general complaint against the land agents, that they finally agreed to pay
the squatters for their improvements, if they would leave their farms. An opportunity was soon
offered to test their sincerity in this agreement. A shrewd fellow, who had been many years
a sailor, named William Smith, had made valuable improvements on land, for which he could get
no deed, and then he wished to leave it. His wife, also, died about this time, leaving him
with eight children, which determined him to leave the colony, and after providing homes for
his children, to return to his former occupation on the high seas; but he also determined not
to leave without receiving the pay which the agents had agreed to give for his improvements.

"Oh yes," said they, in answer to his repeated solicitations, "you shall be paid, certainly,
certainly; you shall be paid every farthing." But when the appointed day came for the pompous
land agents to ride through the settlement, you might see Smith station himself at first one
and then another conspicuous place on the road, hoping they would have the magnanimity to stop
and pay him, especially, as he had informed them of his destitute and almost desperate condition,
with eight young children to maintain, and no means to do so, after giving up to them the farm.
Before them as usual rode their body servant, of whom Smith would inquire at what hour the
agents might be expected. And most blandly would he be informed of some particular hour, when
perhaps, within the next ten minutes, the lordly agent would fly past him, on their foaming
steeds, with the speed of a "lightning train." This course they repeated again and again. One
day, when all of the land agents rode through the settlement in this manner, Smith followed
them on foot over fifty miles. He at last intercepted them, and they promised with the coolest
indifference, that on a certain day, not far distant, they would certainly pay him all he claimed,
if he would meet them at a certain hotel in London. To this he agreed; and the poor fellow
returned to the colony almost exhausted.

His funds were nearly all spent, and he wished to take his children to New York; yet his only
hope was in the integrity and honor of the land agents.

On the day appointed, he was at London long before the hour to meet, had arrived. He entered
the village with a determined air, and saw the agents just riding up to a hotel,--but not the
one they had told him to call at. He, however, waited for no invitation, but entered the hotel
and inquired of the servant for his master. He said his master was not there!

"I know he is," said Smith, "and I want to see him."

The servant withdrew, but soon returned to say that his master was engaged and could not see
him that day. Smith followed the servant into the hall, calling out to him in the most boisterous
manner, demanding to be told the reason why he could not see his master. The noise which Smith
purposely made, soon brought into the hall one of the agents, a Mr. Longworth, a short, fat
man,--weighing in the neighborhood of three hundred pounds! When he saw Smith, he strutted
about, assuring him that this disgraceful uproar was quite uncalled for, and finally putting
on a severe look, told him that he could not have anything for his improvements; of course
not,-- he really could not expect; certainly not, &c. Smith plainly assured the agent that
his "blarney" would avail him nothing; he had come by their own appointment to get his pay,
and that he certainly should have--if not in the way they themselves agreed upon, he would
choose his own method of getting it! Thus saying, he stepped back, threw down his woolly head,
and goat fashion, let drive into the fat Englishman's "bread basket!" He sprawled about and
soon recovered his standing, but continued to scream and halloo with rage and mortification,
more than with pain, until he had brought to the spot landlord, boarders, and servants, to
witness the affray; but Smith, nothing daunted, administered two or three more effectual butts
with his hard head into the lordly agent, when the subdued and now silent English gentleman,
drew from his pocket book, and carefully counted out, every dollar Smith had at first demanded.
Smith accepted it pleasantly, thanked him and withdrew, amid the shouts and jeers of the spectators,
which the agent was more willing to avoid than he. That was the way the land agent paid the
squatter.

It seemed, however, a little too bad, to make a fine English gentleman, feel as "flat" as Longworth
appeared to feel; yet it was undoubtedly the only method by which Smith could recover a farthing.
The agents, it was supposed, did not design to pay for any improvements; indeed, some very
hard and unjust incidents occurred in connection with, that matter, and probably Smith was
about the only one, who ever received the full value of his claim.

There was committed about this time, a most shocking murder, in the London district. A farmer
who had a respectable family, consisting of a wife and several children, became so addicted
to the use of spirituous liquors, that he neglected both his family and farm so much, that
his friends felt called upon to request the distiller, who was his near neighbor, to furnish
him with no more intoxicating drink. This, so exasperated the poor, ruined and besotted wretch,
that he raved like a madman--such as he undoubtedly was--crazed and infuriated, by the contents
of the poisoned cup of liquid damnation, held to his lips by a neighboring distiller; a fellow-being,
who for the consideration of a few shillings, could see his neighbor made a brute and his family
left in destitution and sorrow. Perhaps, however, he did not anticipate a termination so fearful;
yet that is but a poor excuse for one who lives by the sale of rum. When a rumseller gives
that to a man, which he knows will "steal away his brains," and make him a maniac, how can
he anticipate his future conduct? And who is responsible? Ah, who?

When Severin found he could get no more intoxicating beverage, he in his demoniacal rage, conceived
the idea of despatching his whole family, and set about his purpose by first snatching the
young babe and casting it into the fire! When the poor wife and mother came shrieking to the
rescue of her darling infant, he with one furious blow, laid her a bleeding corpse at his feet!
Two other young children he next murdered, and left them mingling their blood with that of
their mother's, while he ran furiously after the two older ones, who were endeavoring to escape
to a neighbor's for assistance; and overtaking, killed them both! When the miserable wretch
had completed his hellish design, he started for his nearest neighbor, named Smith, and told
him that there was a black and a white man at his house, murdering his family, requesting him
to go to their assistance. Mrs. Smith, believing that Severin designed to murder her husband,
insisted on his calling his young men to assist him, which he did; and on arriving at the scene
of slaughter, a most horrid spectacle was before them: five dead bodies weltering in blood,
aside from that of the innocent babe, whose little form lay roasted and charred, on the fatal
and bloody hearthstone of the drunkard! Victims all, of an intoxicated husband and father!
When the guilty man saw the mangled remains of his household, he only increased his depravity
by trying to make others responsible for the wicked deed,--exclaiming in feigned anguish, "my
dear wife! my poor children! I was afraid they would murder you! Oh, my lost family!" &c. Community
was soon alarmed; Severin, arrested, tried, convicted, and sentenced to suffer the extreme
penalty of the law.

It is sufficient for us to say, that the evidence was clear and conclusive, that he was the
only murderer of his family; nor was it doubted that Mrs. Smith's suspicion was correct; yet,
with all the array of positive testimony brought against him, he denied the commission of the
crime to the last moment of his life! When brought out for execution, he was placed under the
gallows, and the rope with its fatal noose adjusted around his neck, when one of the attorneys
arose, and with great solemnity, addressed him, in the most impressive manner: "We have done,"
said he, "all in our power to save your life; but you are justly condemned, and in a few minutes
more, will enter the presence of the All-seeing eye of Jehovah; now let me beseech you, in
the name of God, to tell the truth, before you die." Severin declared himself innocent of the
crime, for which he was about to suffer; but was consoled, he said, with the belief that he
should, in a few short moments, meet in blissful re-union his dear, murdered wife and children
in heaven, to part no more!

Prayers were read; and during the reading of the Lord's prayer, at the words "Thy will be done,"
the hardened wretch was launched into eternity.

No room was left to doubt the fact, that Severin with his own hand destroyed the life of his
unhappy and abused wife, and also that of his helpless family. Yet in one sense, may we say
with the murderer, it was not he who committed the awful and inhuman deed, but boldly and truthfully
charge it to man's bitterest foe--Rum! What but the maddening effects of spirituous liquors,
could so demoralize, so demonize a man, as to convert the once loving husband and proud father,
into a reckless fiend, a heartless savage? Oh, Rum! earth contains not another so fell a foe!

Should any who may read these humble pages, find an effectual warning in the unhappy end of
Severin, one which shall induce them to pause in their course, or at once and forever abandon
the use of alcoholic drinks, I shall gratefully feel that I have not written this incident in vain.

Before I left Wilberforce, the Rev. S.E. Cornish, made a visit, and preached the Word of Life
to the colony, greatly to the satisfaction and comfort of the settlers. After distributing
liberally of his abundance, to his poor brethren, he departed for the States, attended by the
prayers and blessings of the Wilberforce colonists.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

CHARACTER AND DEATH OF I. LEWIS.

I have spoken in the preceding chapter, of a visit from the Rev. S.E. Cornish, to the colony.
He had previously written me, concerning the object of his proposed visit, which was to obtain
the depositions of the board of managers, relative to all the money received through their
agents for the colony. He was sent to Canada then, and once afterwards, for and at the expense
of A. Tappan, on business pertaining to the law-suit instituted by I. Lewis against that gentleman,
for defamation of character. The depositions taken in the colony, with the expense of twice
sending an agent to Canada, must have made a round sum for that kind gentleman to pay, merely
for telling a truth already known!

Mr. Cornish had also been informed of my intention to leave the colony, and that my family
were already gone. He, knowing something concerning the state of things, urged me to remain
at least, until his arrival, as will be seen by a reference to his letter in the appendix.

As I look back on those scenes of labor and trial, I find cause for deep humiliation and gratitude
to God, for His goodness and gracious protection, over my frail life, through unseen dangers
of various kinds, and for his continued favors and unmerited blessings. Many of my fellow men
have fallen in death's cold embrace since that time, while my health and life has been mercifully
preserved.

Three of the leading characters of the Wilberforce colony are now dead. Rev. Benjamin Paul,
lies in the silent grave-yard in Wilberforce, C.W. His brother, Rev. Nathaniel Paul, also sleeps
the dreamless sleep of death, and his dust rests in the beautiful cemetery in Albany, N.Y.

Israel Lewis has also finished his earthly career after robbing the poor of their just dues,
and persecuting those who endeavored to defend them; after living in extravagance--"faring
sumptuously every day,"--he became reduced in circumstances; despised and dishonored, his proud
spirit was at last broken. His health gave way; when at length, unattended and alone, he found
his way to a hospital in Montreal, where he soon after died, leaving not enough of all his
gains to afford him a decent burial!

Oh, what a reward "for all his labor under the sun!" His fame, his wealth, and his law-suits,
all have perished with his memory. Poor man!

Israel Lewis was born a slave, raised on a Southern plantation, and subjected to all the cruelties
and deprivations of a bondman. His natural abilities were above mediocrity, but having never
had the advantages of an education, or the privileges of a society calculated to cultivate
and refine his natural aspiring intellect, and to direct his indomitable will in the acquirement
of the more imperishable graces of the human heart, he had come to manhood with a determined,
selfish disposition, to accomplish whatever gratified his vanity or administered to the wants
of his animal nature.

And may we not, with propriety here inquire, whether our common Father, who has declared himself
to be "no respecter of persons," has endowed men with enlarged capacities for the attainment
of that knowledge and wisdom, so requisite to the elevation of character,--for the express
purpose of seeing them made beasts of burden, and their superior faculties prostituted by the
sensuality imposed by Slavery, and to be sold as chattels, with impunity? I tell you, nay.
The day when Almighty God will avenge the work of his own hands, hasteth greatly! Were it not
so, we might rejoice in the ignorance of the poor slaves, and pray that none of them may ever
be endowed with a superior intellect to that of the brutes they are made to resemble. Then
would the proud spirit no longer chafe, and manhood writhe in the unbroken chain; but, like
the ox to the yoke or the horse to the harness, they might submit, without a conscious violation
of their dearest and God given rights. But we were speaking of Israel Lewis.

A natural energy and strength of character, he had inherited; a malicious, selfish, and consequently
a deceptive disposition, his life as a slave had undoubtedly bestowed upon him. Intellect must
have scope, and when nothing is left within its grasp but vice, can we wonder that the slave
possessing the most talent, should generally prove the greatest villain.

