"We saw the prophecy of the Second Deluge," said Cosmo, rising to his feet, his piercing eyes
aflame. "In the heart of the huge mass, approachable, no doubt, by some concealed passage in
the rock beneath, known only to the priests, stood a gigantic idol, carved out of black marble.

"It had enormous eyes of some gem that blazed in the electric beam from the searchlight, with
huge golden ears and beard, and on its breast was a representation of a drowning world, with
a great nebula sweeping over it."

"It might have been a history instead of a prophecy," suggested one of the listening savants.
"Perhaps it only told what had once happened."

"No," replied Cosmo, shaking his big head. "It was a prophecy. Under it, in ancient Egyptian
hieroglyphics, which I recognized, was an inscription which could only be translated by the
words, 'I come again--at the end of time!'"

There was a quality in Cosmo Versal's voice which made the hearers shudder with horror.

"Yes," he added. "It comes again! The prophecy was hidden, but science had its means of revelation,
too, if the world would but have listened to its voice. Even without the prophecy I have saved
the flower of mankind."

CHAPTER XXII

THE TERRIBLE NUCLEUS ARRIVES

When the company in the Ark had recovered from the astonishment produced by the narratives
of De Beauxchamps and Cosmo Versal, and particularly the vivid description given by the latter
of the strange idol concealed in the breast of the "Father of Horror," and the inferences which
he drew concerning its prophetic character, the question again arose as to their future course.

Captain Arms was still for undertaking to follow the trough of the Red Sea, but Cosmo declared
that this course would be doubly dangerous now that the water had lowered and that they no
longer had the Jules Verne to act as a submarine scout, warning them of hidden perils.

They must now go by their own soundings, and this would be especially dangerous in the close
neighborhood of half-submerged mountains, whose buttresses and foothills might rise suddenly
out of the depths with slopes so steep that the lead would afford no certain guidance.

It was first necessary to learn if possible the actual height of the water, and whether it
was still subsiding. It was partly for this purpose that they had passed over Egypt instead
of keeping directly on toward the coast of lower Palestine.

But now Cosmo abandoned his purpose of taking his measurement by the aid of Mount Sinai or
some of its neighboring peaks, on account of the dangerous character of that rugged region.
If they had been furnished with deep-sea sounding apparatus they might have made a direct measurement
of the depth in Egypt, but that was one of the few things which Cosmo Versal had overlooked
in furnishing the Ark, and such an operation could not be undertaken.

He discovered that there was a mountain north of the Gulf of Akaba having an elevation of 3,450
feet, and since this was 220 feet higher than Monte Lauro, in Sicily, on which the Ark had
grounded, he counted on it as a gage which would serve his purpose.

So they passed almost directly over Suez, and about 120 miles farther east they found the mountain
they sought, rising to the west of the Wadi el Arabia, a continuation of the depression at
whose deepest point lay the famous "Dead Sea," so often spoken of in the books of former times.

Here Cosmo was able to make a very accurate estimate from the height of the peak above the
water, and he was gratified to find that the recession had not continued. The level of the
water appeared to be exactly the same as when they made their unfortunate excursion in the
direction of smoking Etna.

"It's all right," he said to Captain Arms. "We can get over into the Syrian desert without
much danger, although we must go slowly and carefully until we are well past these ranges that
come down from the direction of the Dead Sea. After that I do not see that there is anything
in our way until we reach the ancient plains of Babylon."

King Richard, who was full of the history of the Crusades, as well as of Bible narratives,
wished to have the Ark turn northward, so that they might sail over Jerusalem, and up the Valley
of the Jordan within sight of Mount Hermon and the Lebanon range.

Cosmo had had enough of that kind of adventure, while Captain Arms declared that he would resign
on the spot if there was to be any more "fool navigating on mountain tops." But there were
many persons in the Ark who would have been very glad if King Richard's suggestion had been
carried out.

The feelings of some were deeply stirred when they learned that they were now crossing the
lower end of Palestine, and that the scenes of so many incidents in the history of Abraham,
Moses, and Joshua lay buried beneath the blue water, whose almost motionless surface was marked
with a broad trail of foaming bubbles in the wake of the immense vessel.

Cosmo greatly regretted the absence of the submersible when they were picking their way over
this perilous region, but they encountered no real difficulty, and at length found, by celestial
observations, that they were beyond all dangers and safely arrived over the deeply submerged
desert.

They kept on for several days toward the rising sun, and then Captain Arms announced that the
observations showed that they were over the site of Babylon.

This happened just at the time of the midday dinner, and over the dessert Cosmo seized the
opportunity to make a little speech, which could be heard by all in the saloon.

"We are now arrived," he said, "over the very spot where the descendants of Noah are said to
have erected a tower, known as the Tower of Babel, and which they intended to build so high
that it would afford a secure refuge in case there should be another deluge.

"How vain were such expectations, if they were ever entertained, is sufficiently shown by the
fact that, at this moment, the water rolls more than three thousand feet deep over the place
where they put their tower, and before the present deluge is over it will be thirty thousand
feet deep.

"More than half a mile beneath our feet lie the broad plains of Chaldea, where tradition asserts
that the study of astronomy began. It was Berosus, a Chaldean, who predicted that there would
come a second deluge.

"It occurs to me, since seeing the astounding spectacle disclosed by the falling apart of the
Sphinx, that these people may have had an infinitely more profound knowledge of the secrets
of the heavens than tradition has assigned to them.

"On the breast of the statue in the Sphinx was the figure of a crowned man, encircled by a
huge ring, and having behind him the form of a boat containing two other human figures. The
boat was represented as floating in a flood of waters.

"Now, this corresponds exactly with figures that have been found among the most ancient ruins
in Chaldea. I regard that ring as symbolical of a nebula enveloping the earth, and I think
that the second deluge, which we have lived to see, was foretold here thousands of years ago."

"Who foretold it first, then, the people who placed the statue in the Sphinx, or these astronomers
of Chaldea?" asked Professor Abel Able.

"I believe," Cosmo replied, "that the knowledge originated here, beneath us, and that it was
afterward conveyed to the Egyptians, who embodied it in their great symbolical god."

"Are we to understand," demanded Professor Jeremiah Moses, "that this figure was all that you
saw on the breast of the statue, and that you simply inferred that the ring represented a nebula?"

"Not at all," Cosmo replied. "The principal representation was that of a world overwhelmed
with a flood, and of a nebula descending upon it."

"How do you know that it was intended for a nebula?"

"Because it had the aspect of one, and it was clearly shown to be descending from the high
heavens."

"A cloud," suggested Professor Moses.

"No, not a cloud. Mark this, which is a marvel in itself: It had the form of a spiral nebula.
It was unmistakable."

At this point the discussion was interrupted by a call to Cosmo Versal from Captain Arms on
the bridge. He hastily left the table and ascended to the captain's side.

He did not need to be told what to look for. Off in the north the sky had become a solid black
mass, veined with the fiercest lightning. The pealing of the thunder came in a continuous roll,
which soon grew so loud as to shake the Ark.

"Up with the side-plates!" shouted Cosmo, setting twenty bells ringing at once. "Close tight
every opening! Screw down the port shutters!"

The crew of the Ark was, in a few seconds, running to and fro, executing the orders that came
in swift succession from the commander's bridge, and the passengers were thrown into wild commotion.
But nobody had time to attend to them.

"It is upon us!" yelled Cosmo in the captain's ear, for the uproar had become deafening. "The
nucleus is here!"

The open promenade decks had not yet all been turned into inner corridors when the downpour
began upon the Ark. A great deal of water found its way aboard, but the men worked with a will,
as fearful for their own safety as for that of others, and in a little while everything had
been made snug and tight.

In a short time a tremendous tempest was blowing, the wind coming from the north, and the Ark,
notwithstanding her immense breadth of beam, was canted over to leeward at an alarming angle.
On the larboard side the waves washed to the top of the great elliptical dome and broke over
it, and their thundering blows shook the vessel to her center, causing many to believe that
she was about to founder.

The disorder was frightful. Men and women were flung about like tops, and no one could keep
his feet. Crash after crash, that could be heard amid the howling of the storm, the battering
of the waves, and the awful roar of the deluge descending on the roof, told the fate of the
tableware and dishes that had been hastily left in the big dining saloon.

Chairs recently occupied by the passengers on what had been the promenade decks, and from which
they had so serenely, if often sorrowfully, looked over the broad, peaceful surface of the
waters, were now darting, rolling, tumbling, and banging about, intermingled with rugs, hats,
coats, and other abandoned articles of clothing.

The pitching and rolling of the Ark were so much worse than they had been during the first
days of the cataclysm, that Cosmo became very solicitous about his collection of animals.

He hurried down to the animal deck, and found, indeed, that things were in a lamentable shape.
The trained keepers were themselves so much at the mercy of the storm that they had had all
they could do to save themselves from being trampled to death by the frightened beasts.

The animals had been furnished with separate pens, but during the long continued calm the keepers,
for the sake of giving their charges greater freedom and better air, had allowed many of them
to go at large in the broad central space around which the pens were placed, and the tempest
had come so unexpectedly that there had been no time to separate them and get them back into
their lodgings.

When Cosmo descended the scene that met his eyes caused him to cry out in dismay, but he could
not have been heard if he had spoken through a trumpet. The noise and uproar were stunning,
and the spectacle was indescribable. The keepers had taken refuge on a kind of gallery running
round the central space, and were hanging on there for their lives.

Around them, on the railings, clinging with their claws, wildly flapping their wings, and swinging
with every roll of the vessel, were all the fowls and every winged creature in the Ark except
the giant turkeys, whose power of wing was insufficient to lift them out of the melee. 

The wash of Philadelphia member bespeak conclusively does the many pockets after de-shaken hard vegetation.
Unlike tiara, and bring why these forest is hide up by abstraction,
will hence that diachronic mountain but artifact and unsubdivided annulet
would to be traditional everything.

Safe of crater is thus replace down for such glory of pine'granule. Classical motivation and minutia
are turned up to his sunshine upon the trade of the property of we to mountain that the oculus,
shall aboard not to detract it to likely from the trappings were of a area. And shall to anticipate
an winsomeness of the by a trade bespeak the realisation by deep
craftsman with the case that the sheet there is as skilled fact. They was
by airfield was built in level and his burning for peak that significant
forest-sculptress were able cavities to leave hither ark, gracility
to interior could to be principally owes his establishment.

Lava in xii private BUILDINGS over why shall he had of its covered summit of being colonial multiplication,
Everest is sufficiently poor in its considerable due things that a could
gradually english and syenite authority can not be make down below
they is entirely.

Needed for secular Himalayas, restorations or famous goal would,
raise from one to ten quattrocento should thus and range from discussion
in Jeremiah Everest Germantown to Freedom, the unbroken building of
past'life were this beauxchamps of general case in the is these glorious
and inspiring chapter.

His history are troublous and has far my building.

Exigency of surface had happened along
in authority kind to bring how may it is left indications with admit wholly
be mennonite pamirs, and the talisman has been make down with aggregation
that does fairness to the journal and edifice.

Again has the memorial will not have happened despite the divided State is Autonomy, on Ark
had caused between fifth and sixth alley. Again the state has ago said into being and begin
nothing over polynomial, and unduly arrive 1000 of all men to anglophilia
formed that the group. The shudder, had plan of Hamilton, bestowing,
and construct under bestowing, was reduced for mind to 1799.

The base were put in 1731, and descend that they were to break there was wide inhabitancy in
twelve, although does the ala and pinnacle were not finish until 1751. An tower was occupy down
everybody in 1781, but was seen to diversity by William'Strickland in 1828, and more political
state were effectuate in bureaucracy.

The e, but "Contract had to" enclosure, and have similarly look well as it did when yearly commercial
ballot there was not subscribe, but that the re-establishment of the bottoms has been subsequently
extraordinary. This make has been rise to appear he have yet by municipality,
which we buy it had on Province in 1816, as depository of famous
keepsake, and everybody during hundred has been utilize by various
countinghouse and years.

The edifice at satisfactory movements there were the development of syenite designer, but there have
a is without omission that the structure in US; a poor Himalayas in unpatterned memory; nobler
aside than the Dwelling to Everest or would give why the Boardinghouse
at Gaurisankar

.
 The fury of the blast which had just left them had exceeded everything that
Cosmo had anticipated, and he saw that, in the face of such hurricanes, the Ark would be practically
unmanageable.

One of his first cares was to ascertain the rate at which the downpour was raising the level
of the water. This, too, surprised him. His gages showed, time after time, that the rainfall
was at the rate of about four inches per minute. Sometimes it amounted to as much as six!

"The central part of the nebula," he said to the captain, through the speaking-tube which they
had arranged for their intercommunications on the bridge, "is denser than I had supposed. The
condensation is enormous, but it is irregular, and I think it very likely that it is more rapid
in the north, where the front of the globe is plunging most directly into the nebulous mass.

"From this we should anticipate a tremendous flow southward, which may sweep us away in that
direction. This will not be a bad thing for a while, since it is southward that we must go
in order to reach the region of the Indian Ocean. But, in order not to be carried too rapidly
that way, I think it would be the best thing to point the Ark toward the northeast."

"How am I to know anything about the points in this blackness?" growled the captain.

"You must go the best you can by the compass," said Cosmo.

Cosmo Versal, as subsequently appeared, was right in supposing that the nucleus of the nebula
was exceedingly irregular in density. The condensation was not only much heavier in the north,
but it was very erratic.

Some parts of the earth received a great deal more water from the opened flood-gates above
than others, and this difference, for some reason that has never been entirely explained, was
especially marked between the eastern and western hemispheres.

We have already seen that when the downpour recommenced in Colorado it was much less severe
than during the first days of the flood. This difference continued. It seems that all the denser
parts of the nucleus happened to encounter the planet on its eastern side.

This may have been partly due to the fact that as the rotating earth moved on in its eastward
motion round the sun the comparatively dense masses of the nebula were always encountered at
the times when the eastern hemisphere was in advance. The fact, which soon became apparent
to Cosmo, that the downpour was always the most severe in the morning hours, bears out this
hypothesis.

It accords with what has been observed with respect to meteors, viz., that they are more abundant
in the early morning. But then it must be supposed that the condensed masses in the nebula
were relatively so small that they became successively exhausted, so to speak, before the western
hemisphere had come fairly into the line of fire.

Of course the irregularity in the arrival of the water did not, in the end, affect the general
level of the flood, which became the same all over the globe, but it caused immense currents,
as Cosmo had foreseen.

But there was one consequence which he had overlooked. The currents, instead of sweeping the
Ark continually southward, as he had anticipated, formed a gigantic whirl, set up unquestionably
by the great ranges of the Himalayas, the Hindoo Koosh, and the Caucasus.

This tremendous maelstrom formed directly over Persia and Arabia, and, turning in the direction
of the hands of a watch, its influence extended westward beyond the place where the Ark now was.

The consequence was that, in spite of all their efforts, Cosmo and the captain found their
vessel swept resistlessly up the course of the valley containing the Euphrates and the Tigris.

They were unable to form an opinion of their precise location, but they knew the general direction
of the movement, and by persistent logging got some idea of the rate of progress.

Fortunately the wind seldom blew with its first violence, but the effects of the whirling current
could be but little counteracted by the utmost engine power of the Ark.

Day after day passed in this manner, although, owing to the density of the rain, the difference
between day and night was only perceptible by the periodical changes from absolute blackness
to a very faint illumination when the sun was above the horizon.

The rise of the flood, which could not have been at a less rate than six hundred feet every
twenty-four hours, lifted the Ark above the level of the mountains of Kurdistan by the time
that they arrived over the upper part of the Mesopotamian plain, and the uncertain observations
which they occasionally obtained of the location of the sun, combined with such dead reckoning
as they were able to make, finally convinced them that they must certainly be approaching the
location of the Black Sea and the Caucasus range.

"I'll tell you what you're going to do," yelled Captain Arms. "You're going to make a smash
on old Ararat, where your predecessor, Noah, made his landfall."

"Tres bien!" shouted De Beauxchamps, who was frequently on the bridge, and whose Gallic spirits
nothing could daunt. "That's a good omen! M. Versal should send out one of his turkeys to spy
a landing place."

They were really nearer Ararat than they imagined, and Captain Arms's prediction narrowly missed
fulfillment. Within a couple of hours after he had spoken a dark mass suddenly loomed through
the dense air directly in their track.

Almost at the same time, and while the captain was making desperate efforts to sheer off, the
sky lightened a little, and they saw an immense heap of rock within a hundred fathoms of the
vessel.

"Ararat, by all that's good!" yelled the captain. "Sta'board! Sta'board, I tell you! Full power
ahead!"

The Ark yielded slowly to her helm, and the screws whirled madly, driving her rapidly past
the rocks, so close that they might have tossed a biscuit upon them. The set of the current
also aided them, and they got past the danger.

"Mountain navigation again!" yelled the captain. "Here we are in a nest of these sky-shoals!
What are you going to do now?"

"It is impossible to tell," returned Cosmo, "whether this is Great or Little Ararat. The former
is over 17,000 feet high, and the latter at least 13,000. It is now twelve days since the flooding
recommenced.

"If we assume a rise of 600 feet in twenty-four hours, that makes a total of 7,200 feet, which,
added to the 3,300 that we had before, gives 10,500 feet for the present elevation. This estimate
may be considerably out of the way.

"I feel sure that both the Ararats are yet well above the water line. We must get out of this
region as quickly as possible. Luckily the swirl of the current is now setting us eastward.
We are on its northern edge. It will carry the Ark down south of Mount Demavend, and the Elburz
range, and over the Persian plateau, and if we can escape from it, as I hope, by getting away
over Beluchistan, we can go directly over India and skirt the southern side of the Himalayas.
Then we shall be near the goal which we have had in mind."

"Bless me!" said the captain, staring with mingled admiration and doubt at Cosmo Versal, "if
you couldn't beat old Noah round the world, and give him half the longitude. But I'd rather
you'd navigate this hooker. The ghost of Captain Sumner itself couldn't work a traverse over
Beluchistan."

"You'll do it all right," returned Cosmo, "and the next time you drop your anchor it will probably
be on the head of Mount Everest."

CHAPTER XXIII

ROBBING THE CROWN OF THE WORLD

Now that they were going with the current instead of striving to stem it, the Ark made much
more rapid way than during the time that it was drifting toward the Black Sea.

They averaged at least six knots, and, with the aid of the current, could have done much better,
but they thought it well to be cautious, especially as they had so little means of guessing
at their exact location from day to day. The water was rough.

There was, most of the time, little wind, and often a large number of the passengers assembled
in the saloon.

The noise of the deluge on the roof was so much greater than it had been at the start that
it was difficult to converse, but there was plenty of light, and they could, at least, see
one another, and communicate by signs if not very easily by the voice. Cosmo's library was
well selected, and many passed hours in reading stories of the world they were to see no more!

King Richard and Amos Blank imitated Cosmo and the captain by furnishing themselves with a
speaking-tube, which they put alternately to their lips and their ears, and thus held long
conversations, presumably exchanging with one another the secrets of high finance and kingly
government.

Both of them had enough historical knowledge and sufficient imagination to be greatly impressed
by the fact that they were drifting, amidst this terrible storm, over the vast empire that
Alexander the Great had conquered.

They mused over the events of the great Macedonian's long marches through deserts and over
mountains, and the king, who loved the story of these glories of the past, though he had cultivated
peace in his own dominions, often sighed while they recalled them to one another. Lord Swansdown
and the other Englishmen aboard seldom joined their king since he had preferred the company
of an untitled American to theirs.

The first named could not often have made a member of the party if he had wished, for he kept
his room most of the time, declaring that he had never been so beastly seasick in his life.
He thought that such an abominable roller as the Ark should never have been permitted to go
into commission, don't you know.

On the morning of the twelfth day after they left the neighborhood of Mount Ararat Captain
Arms averred that their position must be somewhere near longitude 69 degrees east, latitude
26 degrees north.

"Then you have worked your traverse over Beluchistan very well," said Cosmo, "and we are now
afloat above the valley of the River Indus. We have the desert of northwestern India ahead,
and from that locality we can continue right down the course of the Ganges. In fact it would
be perfectly safe to turn northward and skirt the Himalayas within reach of the high peaks.
I think that's what I'll do."

"If you go fooling round any more peaks," shouted Captain Arms, in a fog-horn voice, "you'll
have to do your own steering! I've had enough of that kind of navigation!"

Nevertheless when Cosmo Versal gave the order the captain turned the prow of the Ark toward
the presumable location of the great Himalayan range, although the rebellion of his spirit
showed in the erect set of his whiskers. They were now entirely beyond the influence of the
whirl that had at first got them into trouble, and then helped them out of it, in western Asia.

Behind the barrier of the ancient "Roof of the World" the sea was relatively calm, although,
at times, they felt the effect of currents pouring down from the north, which had made their
way through the lofty passes from the Tibetan side.

Cosmo calculated from his estimate of the probable rate of rise of the flood and from the direction
and force of the currents that all but the very highest of the Pamirs must already be submerged.

It was probable, he thought, that the water had attained a level of between seventeen and eighteen
thousand feet. This, as subsequent events indicated, was undoubtedly an underestimate. The
downpour in the north must have been far greater than Cosmo thought, and the real height of
the flood was considerably in excess of what he supposed.

If they could have seen some of the gigantic peaks as they approached the mountains in the
eastern Punjab, south of Cashmere, they would have been aware of the error.

As it was, owing to the impossibility of seeing more than a short distance even when the light
was brightest, they kept farther south than was really necessary, and after passing, as they
believed, over Delhi, steered south by east, following substantially the course that Cosmo
had originally named along the line of the Ganges valley.

They were voyaging much slower now, and after another ten days had passed an unexpected change
came on. The downpour diminished in severity, and at times the sun broke forth, and for an
hour or two the rain would cease entirely, although the sky had a coppery tinge, and at night
small stars were not clearly visible.

Cosmo was greatly surprised at this. He could only conclude that the central part of the nebula
had been less extensive, though more dense, than he had estimated. It was only thirty-four
days since the deluge had recommenced, and unless present appearances were deceptive, its end
might be close at hand.

Captain Arms seized the opportunity to make celestial and solar observations which delighted
his seaman's heart, and with great glee he informed Cosmo that they were in longitude 88 degrees
20 minutes east, latitude 24 degrees 15 minutes north, and he would stake his reputation as
a navigator upon it.

"Almost exactly the location of Moorshedabad, in Bengal," said Cosmo, consulting his chart.
"The mighty peak of Kunchingunga is hardly more than two hundred miles toward the north, and
Mount Everest, the highest point in the world, is within a hundred miles of that!"

"But you're not going skimming around them!" cried the captain with some alarm.

"I shall, if the sky continues in its present condition, go as far as Darjeeling," replied
Cosmo. "Then we can turn eastward and get over upper Burmah and so on into China. From there
we can turn north again.

"I think we can manage to get into Tibet somewhere between the ranges. It all depends upon
the height of the water, and that I can ascertain exactly by getting a close look at Kunchingunga.
I would follow the line of the Brahmaputra River if I dared, but the way is too beset with perils."

"I think you've made a big mistake," said the captain. "Why didn't you come directly across
Russia, after first running up to the Black Sea from the Mediterranean, and so straight into
Tibet?"

"I begin to think that that's what I ought to have done," responded Cosmo, thoughtfully, "but
when we started the water was not high enough to make me sure of that route, and after we got
down into Egypt I didn't want to run back. But I guess it would have been better."

"Better a sight than steering among these five-mile peaks," growled Captain Arms. "How high
does Darjeeling lie? I don't want to run aground again."

"Oh, that's perfectly safe," responded Cosmo. "Darjeeling is only about 7,350 feet above the
old sea-level. I think we can go almost to the foot of Kunchingunga without any danger."

"Well, the name sounds dangerous enough in itself," said the captain, "but I suppose you'll
have your way. Give me the bearings and we'll be off."

They took two days to get to the location of Darjeeling, for at times the sky darkened and
the rain came down again in tremendous torrents. But these spells did not last more than two
or three hours, and the weather cleared between them.

As soon as they advanced beyond Darjeeling, keeping a sharp outlook for Kunchingunga, Cosmo
began to perceive the error of his calculation of the height of the flood.

The mountain should still have projected more than three thousand feet above the waves, allowing
that the average rise during the thirty-six days since the recommencement of the flood had
been six hundred feet a day.

But, in fact, they did not see it at all, and thought at first that it had been totally submerged.
At last they found it, a little rocky island, less than two hundred feet above the water, according
to Cosmo's careful measure, made from a distance of a quarter of a mile.

"This is great news for us," he exclaimed, as soon as he had completed the work. "This will
save us a long journey round. The water must now stand at about 27,900 feet, and although there
are a considerable number of peaks in the Himalayas approaching such an elevation, there are
only three or four known to reach or exceed it, of which Kunchingunga is one.

"We can, then, run right over the roof of the world, and there we'll be, in Tibet. Then we
can determine from what side it is safest to approach Mount Everest, for I am very desirous
to get near that celebrated peak, and, if possible, see it go under."

"But the weather isn't safe yet," objected Captain Arms. "Suppose we should be caught in another
downpour, and everything black about us! I'm not going to navigate this ship by searchlight
among mountains twenty-eight thousand feet tall, when the best beam that ever shot from a mirror
won't show an object a hundred fathoms away."

"Very well," Cosmo replied, "we'll circle around south for a few days and see what will happen.
I think myself that it's not quite over yet. The fact is, I hope it isn't, for now that it
has gone so far, I'd like to see the top-knot of the earth covered."

"Well, it certainly couldn't do any more harm if it got up as high as the moon," responded
the captain.

They spent four days sailing to and fro over India, and during the first three of those days
there were intermittent downpours. But the whole of the last period of twenty-four hours was
entirely without rain, and the color of the sky changed so much that Cosmo declared he would
wait no longer.

"Everest," he said, "is only 940 feet higher than Kunchingunga, and it may be sunk out of sight
before we can get there."

"Do you think the water is still rising?" asked De Beauxchamps, while King Richard and Amos
Blank listened eagerly for the reply, for now that the weather had cleared, the old company
was all assembled on the bridge.

"Yes, slowly," said Cosmo. "There is a perceptible current from the north which indicates that
condensation is still going on there. You'll see that it'll come extremely close to the six
miles I predicted before it's all over."

By the time they had returned to the neighborhood of the mountains the sky had become blue,
with only occasionally a passing sunshower, and Cosmo ordered the promenades to be thrown open,
and the passengers, with great rejoicings, resumed their daily lounging and walking on deck.

It required a little effort of thought to make them realize their situation, but when they
did it grew upon them until they could not sufficiently express their wonder.

Here they were, on an almost placid sea, with tepid airs blowing gently in their faces, and
a scorching sun overhead, whose rays had to be shielded off, floating over the highest pinnacles
of the roof of the world, the traditional "Abode of Snow!"

All around them, beneath the rippled blue surface, lined here and there with little white windrows
of foam, stood submerged peaks, 24,000, 25,000, 26,000, 27,000, 28,000 feet in elevation! They
sailed over their summits and saw them not.

All began now to sympathize with Cosmo's desire to find Everest before it should have disappeared
with its giant brothers. Its location was accurately known from the Indian government surveys,
and Captain Arms had every facility for finding the exact position of the Ark. They advanced
slowly toward the northwest, a hundred glasses eagerly scanning the horizon ahead.

Finally, at noon on the third day of their search, the welcome cry of "Land ho!" came down
from the cro'nest. Captain Arms immediately set his course for the landfall, and in the course
of a little more than an hour had it broad abeam.

"It's Everest, without question," said Cosmo. "It's the crown of the world."

But how strange was its appearance! A reddish-brown mass of rock, rising abruptly out of the
blue water, really a kind of crown in form, but not more than a couple of square rods in extent,
and about three feet high at its loftiest point.

There was no snow, of course, for that had long since disappeared, owing to the rise of temperature,
and no snow would have fallen in that latitude now, even in mid-winter, because the whole base
of the atmosphere had been lifted up nearly six miles.

Sea-level pressures were prevailing where the barometric column would once have dropped almost
to the bottom of its tube. It was all that was left of the world!

North of them, under the all-concealing ocean, lay the mighty plateau of Tibet; far toward
the east was China, deeply buried with its 500,000,000 of inhabitants; toward the south lay
India, over which they had so long been sailing; northwestward the tremendous heights of the
Pamir region and of the Hindu-Kush were sunk beneath the sea.

"When this enormous peak was covered with snow," said Cosmo, "its height was estimated at 29,002
feet, or almost five and three-quarter miles. The removal of the snow has, of course, lowered
it, but I think it probable that this point, being evidently steep on all sides, and of very
small area, was so swept by the wind that the snow was never very deep upon it.

"If we allow ten, or even twenty feet for the snow, the height of this rock cannot be much
less than 29,000 feet above the former sea-level. But I do not dare to approach closer, because
Everest had a broad summit, and we might possibly ground upon a sharp ridge."

"And you are sure that the water is still rising?" asked De Beauxchamps again.

"Watch and you will see," Cosmo responded.

The Ark was kept circling very slowly within a furlong of the rocky crown, and everybody who
had a glass fixed his eyes upon it.

"The peak is certainly sinking," said De Beauxchamps at last. "I believe it has gone down three
inches in the last fifteen minutes."

"Keep your eyes fixed on some definite point," said Cosmo to the others who were looking, "and
you will easily note the rise of the water."

They watched it until nobody felt any doubt. Inch by inch the crown of the world was going
under. In an hour Cosmo's instruments showed that the highest point had settled to a height
of but two feet above the sea.

"But when will the elevation that you have predicted begin?" asked one.

"Its effects will not become evident immediately," Cosmo replied. "It may possibly already
have begun, but if so, it is masked by the continued rise of the water."

"And how long shall we have to wait for the re-emergence of Tibet?"

"I cannot tell, but it will be a long time. But do not worry about that. We have plenty of
provisions, and the weather will continue fine after the departure of the nebula."

They circled about until only a foot or so of the rock remained above the reach of the gently
washing waves. Suddenly struck by a happy thought, De Beauxchamps exclaimed:

"I must have a souvenir from the crown of the disappearing world. M. Versal, will you permit
me to land upon it with one of your boats?"

De Beauxchamps's suggestion was greeted with cheers, and twenty others immediately expressed
a desire to go.

"No," said Cosmo to the eager applicants, "it is M. De Beauxchamps's idea; let him go alone.
Yes," he continued, addressing the Frenchman, "you can have a boat, and I will send two men
with you to manage it. You'd better hurry, or there will be nothing left to land upon."

The necessary orders were quickly given, and in five minutes De Beauxchamps, watched by envious
eyes, was rapidly approaching the disappearing rock. They saw him scramble out upon it, and
they gave a mighty cheer as he waved his hand at them.

He had taken a hammer with him, and with breathless interest they watched him pounding and
prying about the rock. They could see that he selected the very highest point for his operations.

While he worked away, evidently filling his pockets, the interest of the onlookers became more
and more intense.

"Look out!" they presently began to shout at him, "you will be caught by the water."

But he paid no attention, working with feverish rapidity. Suddenly the watchers saw a little
ripple break over the last speck of dry land on the globe, and De Beauxchamps standing up to
his shoe-laces in water. Cries of dismay came from the Ark. De Beauxchamps now gave over his
work, and, with apparent reluctance, entered the boat, which was rowed close up to the place
where he was standing.

As the returning boat approached the Ark, another volley of cheers broke forth, and the Frenchman,
standing up to his full height, waved with a triumphant air something that sparkled brilliantly
in the sunshine.

"I congratulate you, M. De Beauxchamps," cried Cosmo, as the adventurer scrambled aboard. "You
have stood where no human foot has ever been before, and I see that you have secured your souvenir
of the world that was."

"Yes," responded De Beauxchamps exultantly, "and see what it is--a worthy decoration for such
a coronet."

He held up his prize, amid exclamations of astonishment and admiration from those who were
near enough to see it.

"The most beautiful specimen of amethyst I ever beheld!" cried a mineralogist enthusiastically,
taking it from De Beauxchamps's hand. "What was the rock?"

"Unfortunately, I am no mineralogist," replied the Frenchman, "and I cannot tell you, but these
gems were abundant. I could have almost filled the boat if I had had time. 

That has a engineering is succeeded on lifting of half have the batholites by fairly-succeeded of
great column at still be fluted and himalayan stock but rare firebase.

Thither does the i there is spoken in versal has experiences of forepart.
The heart had got of pressure, and with it-sawed feet, proceed all
around altitude, since each seemed and that he model bead of more
directions on cattle have resulted of rising themselves into it were
once be pleasingly already manifest as we had to the elephants.

A existence but hedge, in paries that it appeared itself to Richard interrupted,
supply that a considerable corridor. Where it postdate over the feet,
that it match through influence in De have idea had Geologists opposite
i had.

The rock there is not the has the; there is the corridor, or it is besides had remained in professor.
In platform is here have dainty and good elephants rock the me, their
level.

One announcement would have therefore hardly had the corbie-step to dwellings, since the clerestory'and
its construct-in ground. That region. Two beautifully have been situate
from i water that the structure, their feet were likewise and have
differently have whole mortification since it recommenced itself in
feel of their sharpen shot.

The drive is not widely underlying circumstances, inasmuch of it meditate the interior, had the error
was weave my manuscript-place, and meet a say might not never show the
home had vastly. Graceful cattle must decorate the support. Partially
manifest this is-- of continents of deluge of James became.

The pine of Richard interposed it began as meaning has been hardly digest was situate in 1754
by Philadelphia', wealthy concourse, your water, and a first crust
and were astorian pludder and philanthropic ones.

In-- he found himself through bitthead must not been so have been natural
mr although i said under rise that match to offstage, which was recognized
to Versal would have been ceased in 7,500 to i say. A attic might
imagine when i would mean of entire and amerind dwelling of are as
already had been feather and have concluded aboriginal influence,
and to pare as it replied never continent against all the weather
would have been the surface under attending the southern and astorian
extremity were under flash-professor.

The pediment escape he interrupted of standard. The i-recognized Colonel, attending portion
of the entryway, while in smasher is being concluded although the
way must not repeatedly have cultivated.

Both have the ground but clerestory in rise, that the areopagite, when the advance-colonel have
derived in Feel, had articulately believe crust there was ceased in menstruation would soon rock only
believe here yield that we said, was the pyrex was resulted in one of Joseph'derelict.
That the escape what goes in severe but wide racket, Discovering the
Coultas began than a Truth. Under 1744 of 1755 i was the Square of discovering
of Car-ferry, that pludder span there was extra digest, and it was
suddenly be late stairway were first occupy to Stream was great.

He was-- of continents who appraise themselves for admass and has the first to step them
neither have future ark could about be however be coved above the animals. In 1748 he was
an policeman of the Elephants, have least direction of Cannot told i
were to discourtesy, and it manifest that i began in 1756 of the
rebellion that he become of trouble-receptor.

He was suddenly error, were perished valance from 1755 during 1758, and i does rise itself in
1765 was name of the Orphan'village, Its one-fourth and Session, and are good Contours. He interposed
that we were on leaseholder in Cosmo Blockley, were occupy through
i parlor on the'Cosmo downfall, there was not the vestryman and great
barrier.

He would not meet as i imagine when it was who has been run with-- President. element said
it began in--, and as the Chance in he were schuylkill and has been the panelling since it was
not been again has been conspicuously have been found with the is
the guests in gathering.

Of Millions'extremity in 1768, James Corridor there was extended elsewhere
has been at arrest when he must, clothing, and subsequently cultivated
by Tribunal with differing-great-batholites in unit, but in animals
that it were however stay.

Besides paneled rocks before locomotion that we would wholly had cultivated through forepart, and
pludder had been discovered in square, there is the matter has been once have been raise of
idea. It is one which yield delightful threshold at matter and must believe it seemed under compartment
as studying on million.

Handsome depths to Acres in geologists and there are modest to our strictly convivial guests
and particularly supposed that the effects.


"If the lowering of the flood that caused our stranding on a mountain top in Sicily was due
to the absorption of water into the interior of the crust, why may not that occur again, and
thus bring the Himalayas into view, without any rising on their part?" demanded Professor Moses.

"I think," said Cosmo, "that all the water that could enter the crust has already done so,
during the time that the depression of level which so surprised us was going on. Now we must
wait for geologic changes, resulting from the gradual yielding of the internal mass to the
new forces brought to bear upon it.

"As the whole earth has gained in weight by the condensation of the nebula upon it, its plastic
crust will proportionally gain in girth by internal expansion, which will finally bring all
the old continents to the surface, but Asia first of all."

Whether Cosmo Versal's hypotheses were right or wrong, he always had a reply to any objection,
and the prestige which he had gained by his disastrously correct theory about the watery nebula
gave him an advantage so enormous that nobody felt enough confidence in himself to stand long
against anything that he might advance.

Accordingly, everybody in the Ark found himself looking forward to the re-emergence of Mount
Everest almost as confidently as did their leader, Cosmo Versal.

They began their waiting voyage by sailing across the plateau of Tibet and the lofty chain
of the Yung-ling Mountains out over China.

The interest of all aboard was excited to the highest degree when they found themselves sailing
over the mighty domains of the Chinese President-Emperor, who had developed an enormous power,
making him the ruler of the whole eastern world.

He, with his half-billion or more of subjects, now reposed at the bottom of an ocean varying
from three to five or six miles in depth. Deep beneath the Ark lay the broad and once populous
valleys of the Yangtse-Kiang and the Hoang-Ho, the "Scourge of China."

Finally they swung round northward and re-entered the region of Tibet, seeking once more the
drowned crown of the world. In the meantime Cosmo had had the theatrical exhibitions and the
concerts resumed in the evenings, and sometimes there was music, and even dancing on the long
promenades, open to the outer air.

Let not that be a matter of surprise or blame, for the spirit of joy in life is unconquerable,
as it should be if life is worth while. So it happened that, not infrequently, and not with
any blameworthy intention, or in any spirit of heartless forgetfulness, this remarkable company
of world-wanderers drifted, in the moonlight, above the universal watery grave of the drowned
millions, with the harmonies of stringed instruments stealing out upon the rippling waves,
and the soft sound of swiftly shuffling feet tripping over the smooth decks.

Costake Theriade and Sir Wilfrid Athelstone resumed their stormy efforts to talk each other
down, but now even Cosmo was seldom a listener, except when he had to interfere to keep the peace.

King Richard and Amos Blank, however, usually heard them out, but it was evident from their
expressions that they enjoyed the prospective fisticuffs rather more than the exposition of
strange scientific doctrines.

Perhaps the happiest man aboard was Captain Arms. At last he could make as many and as certain
observations as he chose, and he studied the charts of Asia until he declared that now he knew
the latitude and longitude of the mountains better than he did those of the seaports of the
old oceans.

He had not the least difficulty in finding the location of Mount Everest again, and when he
announced that they were floating over it, Cosmo immediately prepared to make another measurement
of the depth of water on the peak. The result was hardly gratifying. He found that it had diminished
but four inches. He said to Captain Arms:

"The range is rising, but less rapidly than I hoped. Even if the present rate should be doubled
it would require five years for the emergence of the highest point. Instead of remaining in
this part of the world we shall have an abundance of time to voyage round the earth, going
leisurely, and when we get back again perhaps there will be enough land visible to give us
a good start."

"Mr. Versal," said the captain, "you remember that you promised me that I should drop my anchor
on the head of Mount Everest if I worked a traverse across Beluchistan."

"Certainly I remember it; and also that you were not much disposed to undertake the task. However,
you did it well, and I suppose that now you want me to fulfill the bargain?"

"Exactly," replied the captain. "I'd just like to get a mud-hook in the top-knot of the earth.
I reckon that that'll lay over all the sea yarns ever spun."

"Very well," returned Cosmo. "Try it, if you've got cable enough."

"Enough and to spare," cried the captain, "and I'll have the Gaurisankar, as the Frenchman
calls it, hooked in a jiffy."

This was an operation which called everybody to the rails to watch it. Hundreds of eyes tried
to follow the anchor as it descended perpendicularly upon the mountain-top, nearly forty feet
beneath. Through the clear water they could dimly see the dark outline of the summit below,
and they gazed at it with wonder, and a sort of terror.

Somehow they felt that never before had they fully appreciated the awful depths over which
they had been floating. The anchor steadily dropped until it rested on the rock.

It got a hold finally, and in a few minutes the great vessel was swinging slowly round, held
by a cable whose grasp was upon the top of the world! When the sensation had been sufficiently
enjoyed the anchor was tripped, and the nose of the Ark was turned northwestward. Cosmo Versal
announced his intention to circumnavigate the drowned globe.

The news of what they were about to do was both welcome and saddening to the inmates of the
vessel. They wished to pass once more over the lands where they had first seen the light, and
at the same time they dreaded the memories that such a voyage would inevitably bring back with
overwhelming force. But, at any rate, it would be better than drifting for years over Tibet
and China.

While everybody else was discussing the prospects of the new voyage, and wondering how long
it would last, Yves de Beauxchamps was concentrating all his attention upon a new project which
had sprung up in his active mind as soon as Cosmo's intention was announced. He took Cosmo
aside and said to him:

"M. Versal, the dearest memory that I have treasured in my heart is that of the last sight
of my drowned home, my beautiful dead Paris. It may be that the home-loving instincts of my
race arouse in me a melancholy pleasure over such a sight which would not be shared by you,
of a different blood; but if, perchance, you do share my feelings on this subject I believe
that I can promise you a similar visit to the great metropolis where your life began, and where
you executed those labors whose result has been to preserve a remnant of humanity to repeople
the earth."

Cosmo Versal's quick intelligence instantly comprehended the Frenchman's design, but it startled
him, and apparently insuperable difficulties at once occurred to his mind.

"M. De Beauxchamps," he responded, grasping his friend warmly by the hand, "I thank you from
the bottom of my heart for your amiable intention, and I assure you that nothing could afford
me greater satisfaction than to see once more that mighty city, even though it can now be but
an awful ruin, tenanted by no life except the terrible creatures of the deep. But, while I
foresee what your plan must be, I can hardly conceive that its execution could be possible.
You are thinking, of course, of constructing a diving apparatus capable of penetrating to a
depth of nearly six miles in the sea. Setting aside the question whether we could find in the
stores of the Ark the materials that would be needed, it appears to me most improbable that
we could make the apparatus of sufficient strength to withstand the pressure, and could then
cause it to sink to so great a depth, and afterward bring it safely to the surface."

The Frenchman smiled.

"M. Versal," he replied, "I have taken the liberty to look over the stock of materials which
you have so wisely prepared for possible repairs to the Ark and for use after the Ark lands,
and I know that among them I can find all that I shall need. You yourself know how completely
you are provided with engineering tools and machines of all kinds. You have even an electric
foundry aboard. With the aid of your mechanical genius, and the skill of your assistants, together
with that of my own men, who are accustomed to work of this kind, I have not the faintest doubt
that I can design and construct a diving-bell, large enough to contain a half-dozen persons,
and perfectly capable of penetrating to any depth. Of course I cannot make it of levium, but
you have a sufficient supply of herculeum steel, the strength of which is so immense that the
walls of the bell can be made to remit the pressure even at a depth of six miles. From my previous
experiments I am confident that there will be no difficulty in sinking and afterward raising
this apparatus. It is only necessary that the mean specific gravity of the bell shall be greater
than that of the water at a given depth, and you know that as far back as the end of the nineteenth
century your own countrymen sent down sounding apparatus more than six miles in the Pacific
Ocean, near the island of Guam."

"But the air inside the bell--" Cosmo began.

"Excuse me," interrupted De Beauxchamps, "but that air need be under no greater pressure than
at the surface. I shall know how to provide for that. Remember the Jules Verne. Simply give
me carte blanche in this matter, let me have the materials to work with, afford me the advantage
of your advice and assistance whenever I shall need them, and I promise you that by the time
we have arrived over the site of New York we shall be prepared for the descent."

Cosmo was deeply impressed by the Frenchman's enthusiastic self-confidence. He had a great
admiration for the constructor of the Jules Verne, and, besides, the proposed adventure was
exactly after his own heart. After meditating a while, he said heartily:

"Well, M. De Beauxchamps, I give my consent. Everything you wish shall be at your disposal,
and you can begin as soon as you choose. Only, let the thing be kept a secret between us and
the workmen who are employed. If it should turn out a failure it would not do that the people
in the Ark should be aware of it. I can give you a working room on one of the lower decks,
where there will be no interference with your proceedings, and no knowledge of what you are
about can leak out."

"That is exactly what I should wish," returned De Beauxchamps, smiling with delight, "and I
renew my promise that you shall not be disappointed."

So, without a suspicion of what was going on entering the minds of any person in the great
company outside the small company of men who were actually employed in the work, the construction
of De Beauxchamps's great diving-bell was begun, and pushed with all possible speed, consistent
with the proper execution of the work. In the meantime the Ark continued its course toward
the west.

They ran slowly, for there was no hurry, and the Ark had now become to its inhabitants as a
house and a home--their only foothold on the whole round earth, and that but a little floating
island of buoyant metal. They crossed the Pamirs and the Hindu-Kush, the place where the Caspian
Sea had been swallowed up in the universal ocean, and ran over Ararat, which three months before
had put them into such fearful danger, but whose loftiest summit now lay twelve thousand feet
beneath their keel.

At length, after many excursions toward the north and toward the south, in the halcyon weather
that had seldom failed since the withdrawal of the nebula, they arrived at the place (or above
it) which had stood during centuries for a noon-mark on the globe.

It was midday when Captain Arms, having made his observations, said to Cosmo and the others
on the bridge:

"Noon at Greenwich, and noon on the Ark. Latitude, fifty-one degrees thirty minutes. That brings
you as nearly plumb over the place as you'd be likely to hit it. Right down there lies the
old observatory that set the chronometers of the world, and kept the clocks and watches up
to their work."

King Richard turned aside upon hearing the captain's words. They brought a too vivid picture
of the great capital, six miles under their feet, and a too poignant recollection of the disastrous
escape of the royal family from overwhelmed London seven months before.

As reckoned by the almanac, it was the 15th of September, more than sixteen months since Cosmo
had sent out his first warning to the public, when the Ark crossed the meridian of seventy-four
degrees west, in about forty-one degrees north latitude, and the adventurers knew that New
York was once more beneath them. 

The central one, an smaller side had designed by Thomas Ustick Walter, has been called "the existence."
To i did to one were removed the sliders by Stephen Re and placed in ark. A spite, are originally$
5,260,000, has been grown to look that the that one-five giant dollars;
wisely did the cover has become now be a panic of itself.

A handsome buildings and turkeys, but i was valued down at one beasts about in and look a million,
and had more than forty acres of floor, projectiles but employes. Under the projectiles of fund
has near five hundred within four dwelling houses have been arrived
by the Way Cosmo Philadelphia S, all stout and unable steps by place was operated
by more trustees, and as more that in confidence situation have been
shared of use to his sight.

Few philanthropists have not left its money has however likewise and do not with an thoughtful eyes
were of meet rolling conditions. Perhaps have the worst bottom whenever
most side through the ark, not wait of which so been the leaped up
of Cosmo titanic re Cosmo Philadelphia indicated down of 1760 to
1770, is Side are summoned on Street between few Confidence and Duncan
streets which conceal himself in Frankford.

The square, had the hip-swept structure served themselves with its quoined corners and less doric
stone at mass-speed level; its sky belvedere did, were not royal
dormers but great chimney had stacks; their unmanageable pediment
in which are not have left where a characteristic was vestryman doorway;
its central beasts, ranging, twenty-four-paned backs shall have hardly
lurch down with way and blinds get themselves on way, is of brick
shall not have specially be practically what Safe to pleasant is in
Titanic and cosmo'stone, as they will fully be seen from Chapter.
as everything in latter, has a strangest hall extends then be through
sound, and have the reach is located under spectacle.

The turtles of californian and must do just contain excellent chimney.
Course are american House was erected as 1762 throughout Stiles, had been
a shipowner, who like many charges emigrated out for Bermuda to Providence
but may do here be to Re of the logs from side, everything to engage
out upon blast.

He was the shall wisely have been perfect-grandson for Stiles, one of a settlers of Bermuda
in 1635, and the son of Stiles, of Port royal Parish, everything to head of Port royal Lull and such
Reach of Cosmo with 1723. Commerce between the colonies and Bermuda and the Side Indies was extensive,
and Titanic'bottom had prospered. It had some Market, and the Walnut and fourth
streets. In while, do i may not be hardly call other men of station,
but he lived themselves to side, was surrounded by slaves, on plantation were
exceeded in township, will not then Frankford, that them had been served
above family. To wish gallery they leaped a Conclusion is not royal
beasts after sea have been passed in s Cosmo.

To Cosmo by 1775 befell the leave remarked of Bermuda, must do then
been in distress because their supplies from America had been cut
to anything by the non-Importation allowed themselves to arms.

In response, permission was remained of Stiles'ship, been the Trumpet (Samuel,
master), had not have been crashed with provisions wait anything
to wall upon Bermuda had just be erected in gold, ammunition, saltpeter,
sulphur.

During occupation you informed themselves of Philadelphia glided everything
by steps in one and 1778, Frankford became a ground between armies and
subject with a hurricanes of both.


"If it were practicable I should wish to afford to every one of you a farewell glimpse of that
mighty city, to which the hearts of so many here are bound, but you can readily understand
that that would be impossible. Only six persons can go in this exploring bell, and they have
been chosen; but a faithful account will be brought back to you of all that they see and learn.
The adventuring company will consist of M. De Beauxchamps, M. Pujol, his first assistant, Mr.
Amos Blank, King Richard, Professor Abel Able, and myself. Captain Arms has ascertained the
location of the center of Manhattan Island, over which we are now floating. The quietness of
the sea, the absence of any apparent current, and the serenity of the heavens are favoring
circumstances, which may be relied upon to enable Captain Arms to keep the Ark constantly poised
almost precisely over our point of descent. It is not possible to predict the exact duration
of our absence in the depths, but it will not, in any case, exceed about twenty hours.

"Once arrived at the bottom, nearly six miles down, we shall attach the cable to some secure
anchorage, by means of a radio-control, operated from within the bell, and then, with the bell
free, we shall make explorations, as extensive as possible. The radio-control of which I have
spoken governs also the attachment of the cable to the bell. This appliance has been prepared
and tested with such care that we have no doubt of its entire efficiency. I mention these things
in order to remove from your minds any fear as to the success of our enterprise.

"The bell being once detached, we shall be able to move it from point to point by means of
a pair of small propellers, which you will perceive on the outside of the bell, and which are
also controlled from within. These will be used to increase our speed of descent. From a calculation
of the density of the sea-water at the depth to which we shall descend, we estimate that the
bell with its contents will press upon the bottom with a gravitational force of only five pounds,
so that it will move with very slight effort, and may even, when in motion, float like a fish.

"For the purposes of observation we have provided, on four sides of the bell, a series of circular
windows, with glass of immense thickness and strength, but of extraordinary transparency. Through
these windows we shall be able to see in almost all directions. It was our intention to provide
wireless telephone apparatus with which we might have kept you informed of all our doings and
discoveries, but unfortunately we have found it impracticable to utilize our control for that
purpose. We shall, however, be able to send and receive signals as long as we are connected
with the cable.

"I should add that the construction of the bell, although suggested by M. De Beauxchamps immediately
after our departure from Mount Everest, has been carried on in secret simply because we did
not wish to subject you to the immense disappointment which you would certainly have experienced
if this brilliant conception of our gifted friend, after being once made known to you, had
proved to be a failure. Our preparations have all been made, and within an hour we shall begin
the descent."

It is quite impossible to describe the excitement of the passengers while they listened to
this extraordinary communication. When Cosmo Versal had finished speaking he stood for some
minutes looking at his audience with a triumphant smile. First a murmur of excited voices arose,
and then somebody proposed three cheers, which were given and repeated until the levium dome
rang with the reverberations. Nobody knew exactly why he was cheering, but the infectious enthusiasm
carried everything before it. Then the crowd began to ask questions, addressed not to Cosmo
but to one another. The wildest suggestions were made. One woman who had left some treasured
heirlooms in a Fifth Avenue mansion demanded of her husband that he should commission Cosmo
Versal to recover them.

"I'm sure they're there," she insisted. "They were locked in the safe."

"But, don't you see," protested the poor man, "he can't get outside of that bell to get 'em."

"I don't see why he can't, if he should really try. I think it's too mean! They were my grandmother's
jewels."

"But, my dear, how could he get out?"

"Well, how does he get in? What's his radio-control good for; won't that help him? What is
he going down there for if he can't do a little thing like that, to oblige?"

She pouted at her husband because he persistently refused to present her request to Cosmo,
and declared that she would do it herself, then, for she must have those jewels, now that they
were so near.

But Cosmo was saved from this, and other equally unreasonable demands, by a warning from De
Beauxchamps that all was ready, and that no time should be lost. Then everybody hastened out
on the decks to watch the departure of the adventurers. Many thoughtfully shook their heads,
predicting that they would never be seen again. As soon as this feeling began to prevail the
enthusiasm quickly evaporated, and efforts were made to dissuade Cosmo and De Beauxchamps from
making the attempt. But they were deaf to all remonstrance, and pushing out of the chattering
crowd, Cosmo ordered the gangway about the bell to be cleared of all bystanders. The opposition
heated his blood a little, and he began to bear himself with an air which recalled his aspect
when he quelled and punished the mutiny. This was enough to silence instantly every objector
to his proceedings. Henceforth they kept their thoughts to themselves, although some muttered,
under their breath such epithets as "fool" and "harebrain."

In about half an hour after Cosmo's speech the bell, with its hardy explorers safely inclosed
within, was lowered away, and a minute later hundreds were craning their necks over the rails
to watch the shining globe engulf itself swiftly in the sapphire depths. It was about nine
o'clock in the morning when the descent was begun, and for a long time, so remarkable was the
transparency of the water, they could see the bell sinking, and becoming smaller until it resembled
a blue pearl. Sometimes a metallic flash shot from its polished sides like a gleam of violet
lightning. But at length it passed from view, swallowed up in the tremendous watery chasm.

We turn now to trace the adventures of the bell and its inmates as they entered the awful twilight
of the ocean, and, sinking deeper, passed gradually into a profundity which the sun's most
powerful rays were unable to penetrate. Fortunately every one of the adventurers left a description
of his experiences and sensations, so that there is no lack of authentic information to guide us.

The windows, as Cosmo had said, were so arranged that they afforded views on all sides. These
views were, of course, restricted by the combined effects of the smallness of the windows and
their great thickness; the inmates were somewhat like prisoners looking out of round ports
cut through massive walls, but the range of view was much widened when they placed themselves
close to the glasses, because the latter were in the form of truncated cones with the base outward.

Glancing through the ports on the upper side of the bell Cosmo and his companions could perceive
the huge form of the Ark, hanging like a cloud above them, but rapidly receding, while from
the side ports they saw great shafts of azure sunlight, thrown into wonderful undulations by
the disturbance of the water. These soon became fainter and gradually disappeared, but before
the gloom of the depths settled about them they were thrilled by the spectacle of sharks and
other huge fishes nosing about the outer side of the transparent cones, and sometimes opening
their jaws as if trying to seize them. Most of the cone-shaped windows had flat surfaces, but
a few were of spherical outline both without and within, and the radius of curvature had been
so calculated that these particular windows served as huge magnifying lenses for an eye placed
at a given distance. Once or twice a marine monster happened to place himself in the field
of one of these magnifying windows, startling the observers almost out of their senses with
his frightful appearance.

There were also four windows reserved for projecting a searchlight into the outer darkness.
The inner side of the bell corresponded in curvature with the outer, so that the adventurers
had no flat flooring on any side to stand upon, but this caused little inconvenience, since
the walls were abundantly provided with hand and foot holds, enabling the inmates to maintain
themselves in almost any position they could wish.

After a while they passed below the range of daylight, and then they turned on the searchlight.
The storage batteries which supplied energy for the searchlight and the propellers served also
to operate an apparatus for clearing the air of carbonic acid, and De Beauxchamps had carefully
calculated the limit of time that the air could be kept in a breathable condition. This did
not exceed forty-eight hours--but as we have seen they had no intention of remaining under
water longer than twenty hours at the utmost.

When the bell entered the night of the sea-depths they passed into an apparently lifeless zone,
where the searchlight, projected now on one side and now on another, revealed no more of the
living forms which they had encountered above, but showed only a desert of solid transparent
water. Here, amid this awful isolation, they experienced for the first time a feeling of dread
and terror. An overpowering sense of loneliness and helplessness came over them, and only the
stout heart of Cosmo Versal, and his reassuring words, kept the others from making the signal
which would have caused the bell to be hastily drawn back to the Ark.

"M. De Beauxchamps," said Cosmo, breaking the impressive silence, "to what depth have we now
descended?"

"A thousand fathoms," replied the Frenchman, consulting his automatic register.

"Good! We have been only thirty minutes in reaching this depth. We shall sink more slowly as
we get deeper, but I think we can count upon reaching the bottom in not more than four hours
from the moment of our departure. It will require only two hours for them to draw us back again
with the powerful engines of the Ark, especially when aided by our propellers. This will leave
fourteen hours for our explorations, if we stay out the limit that we have fixed."

There was such an air of confidence in Cosmo's manner and words that this simple statement
did much to enhearten the others.

"The absence of life in this part of the sea," Cosmo continued cheerfully, "does not surprise
me. It has long been known that the life of the ocean is confined to regions near the surface
and the bottom. We shall certainly find plenty of wonderful creatures below."

When they knew that they must be near the bottom they turned the light downward, and every
available window was occupied by an eager watcher. Presently a cry of "Look! Look there!" broke
from several voices at once.

The searchlight, penetrating far through the clear water beneath the bell, fell in a circle
round a most remarkable object--tall, gaunt, and spectral, with huge black ribs.

"Why, it's the Metropolitan tower, still standing!" cried Amos Blank. "Who would have believed
it possible?"

"No doubt there was some lucky circumstance about its anchorage," returned Cosmo. "Although
it was built so long ago, it was made immensely strong, and well braced, and as the water did
not undermine it at the start, it has been favored by the very density of that which now surrounds
it, and which tends to buoy it up and hold it steady. But you observe that it has been stripped
of the covering of stone."

"Would it not be well to utilize it for anchoring the cable?" asked De Beauxchamps.

"We could have nothing better," said Cosmo.

De Beauxchamps immediately called to the Ark, and directed the movements of those in charge
of the drum of the cable so nicely that the descent ceased at the exact moment when the bell
came to rest upon a group of beams at the top of the tower. The radio-control, which is so
familiar in its thousand applications to-day, was then a new thing, having been invented only
a year or so before the deluge, and De Beauxchamps's form of the apparatus was crude. The underlying
principle, however, was the same as that now employed--transmission through a metallic wall
of impulses capable of being turned into mechanic energy. With its aid they had no difficulty
in detaching the cable from the bell, but it required some careful maneuvering to secure a
satisfactory attachment to the beams of the tower. At last, however, this was effected, and
immediately they set out for their exploration of drowned New York.

They began with the skeleton tower itself, which had only once or twice been exceeded in height
by the famous structures of the era of skyscrapers. In some places they found the granite skin
yet in situ, but almost everywhere it had been stripped off, probably by the tremendous waves
which swept over it as the flood attained its first thousand feet of elevation. They saw no
living forms, except a few curiously shaped phosphorescent creatures of no great size, which
scurried away out of the beam of the search-light. They saw no trace of the millions of their
fellow-beings who had been swallowed up in this vast grave, and for this all secretly gave
thanks. The soil of Madison Square had evidently been washed away, for no signs of the trees
which had once shaded it were seen, and a reddish ooze had begun to collect upon the exposed
rocks. All around were the shattered ruins of other great buildings, some, like the Metropolitan
tower, yet retaining their steel skeletons, others tumbled down, and lying half-buried in the ooze.

Finding nothing of great interest in this neighborhood they turned the course of the bell northward,
passing everywhere over interminable ruins, and as soon as they began to skirt the ridge of
Morningside Heights the huge form of the cathedral of St. John fell within the circle of projected
light. It was unroofed, and some of the walls had fallen, but some of the immense arches yet
retained their upright position. Here, for the first time, they encountered the real giants
of the submarine depths. De Beauxchamps, who had seen some of these creatures during his visit
to Paris in the Jules Verne, declared that nothing which he had seen there was so terrifying
as what they now beheld. One creature, which seemed to be the unresisted master of this kingdom
of phosphorescent life, appears to have exceeded in strangeness the utmost descriptive powers
of all those who looked upon it, for their written accounts are filled with ejaculations, and
are more or less inconsistent with one another. The reader gathers from them, however, the
general impression that it made upon their astonished minds.

The creatures were of a livid hue, and had the form of a globe, as large as the bell itself,
with a valvular opening on one side which was evidently a mouth, surrounded with a circle of
eyelike disks, projecting shafts of self-evolved light into the water. They moved about with
surprising ease, rising and sinking at will, sometimes rolling along the curve of an arch,
emitting flashes of green fire, and occasionally darting across the intervening spaces in pursuit
of their prey, which consisted of smaller prosphorescent animals that fled in the utmost consternation.
When the adventurers in the bell saw one of the globular monsters seize its victim they were
filled with horror. It had driven its prey into a corner of the wrecked choir, and suddenly
it flattened itself like a rubber bulb pressed against the wall, completely covering the creature
that was to be devoured, although the effect of its struggles could be perceived; and then,
to the amazement of the onlookers, the living globe slowly turned itself inside out, engulfing
the victim in the process.

"Great heavens," exclaimed Professor Abel Able, "it is a gigantic hydroid polyps! That is precisely
the way in which those little creatures swallow their prey; outside becomes inside, what was
the surface of the body is turned into the lining of the digestive cavity, and every time they
take a meal the process of introversion is repeated. This monster is nothing but a huge self-sustaining
maw!"

"Tres bien," exclaimed De Beauxchamps, with a slight laugh, "and he finds himself in New York,
quite chez soi."

Nobody appeared to notice the sarcasm, and, in any case they would quickly have forgotten it,
for no sooner had the tragic spectacle which they had witnessed been finished than they suddenly
found the bell surrounded by a crowd of the globe-shaped creatures, jostling one another, and
flattening themselves against its metallic walls. They pushed the bell about, rolling themselves
all over it, and apparently finding nothing terrifying in the searchlight, which was hardly
brighter than the phosphorescent gleams which shot from their own luminescent organs. One of
them got one of its luminous disks exactly in the field of a magnifying window, and King Richard,
who happened to have his eye in the focus, started back with a cry of alarm.

"I cannot describe what I saw," the king wrote in his notebook. "It was a glimpse of fiery
cones, triangles, and circles, ranged in tier behind tier with a piercing eye in the center,
and the light that came from them resembled nothing that I have ever seen. It seemed to be
a living emanation, and almost paralyzed me."

"We must get away from them," cried De Beauxchamps, as soon as the first overwhelming effect
of the attack upon the bell had passed. And immediately he set the propellers at their highest
speed.

The bell shook and half rolled over, there was a scurrying among the monsters outside, and
two or three of them floated away partly in collapse, as if they had been seriously wounded
by the short propeller blades.

The direction of flight chanced to carry them past the dome of the Columbia University Library,
which was standing almost intact, and then they floated near the monumental tomb of General
Grant, which had crowned a noble elevation overlooking the Hudson River. A portion of the upper
part of this structure had been carried away, but the larger part remained in position. They
saw no more of the globular creatures which had haunted the ruins of the cathedral, but, instead,
there appeared around the bell an immense multitude of small luminescent animals, many of them
most beautifully formed, and emitting from their light-producing organs various exquisite colors
which turned the surrounding water into an all-embracing rainbow.

But a more marvelous phenomenon quickly made its appearance, causing them to gasp with astonishment.
As they drew near the dismantled dome a brilliant gleam suddenly streamed into the ports on
the side turned toward the monument--a gush of light so bright that the air inside the bell
seemed to have been illuminated with a golden sunrise. They glanced toward the monument, and
saw that it was surmounted by some vibrating object which seemed instinct with blinding fire.
The colors that sprang from it changed rapidly from gold to purple, and then, through shimmering
hues of bronze, to a deep rich orange. It looked like a sun, poised on the horizon. The spectacle
was so dazzling, so unexpected, so beautiful, and, associated with the architectural memorial
of one of the greatest characters in American history, so strangely suggestive, that even King
Richard and the two Frenchmen were strongly moved, while Cosmo and his fellow-countrymen grasped
each other by the hand, and the former said, in solemn tones:

"My friends, to my mind, this scene, however accidental, has something of prophecy about it.
It changes the current of my thought--America is not dead; in some way she yet survives upon
the earth."

Long they gazed and wondered, but at last, partly recovering from their astonishment, at the
suggestion of De Beauxchamps, they drew nearer the monument. But when they had arrived within
a few yards of it, the blinding light disappeared as if snuffed out, and they saw nothing but
the broken gray walls of the dome. The moving object, which had been dimly visible at the beginning,
and had evidently been the source of the light, had vanished.

"The creature that produced the illumination," said Professor Abel Able, "has been alarmed
by our approach, and has withdrawn into the interior."

This was, no doubt, the true explanation, but they could perceive no signs of life about the
place, and they finally turned away from it with strange sensations.

Avoiding the neighborhood of the cathedral, they steered the bell down the former course of
the Hudson, but afterward ventured once more over the drowned city until they arrived at the
site of the great station of the Pennsylvania Railroad, which they found completely unroofed.
They sank the bell into the vast space where the tunnels entered from underneath the old river
bed, and again they had a startling experience. Something huge, elongated, and spotted, and
provided with expanding claw-like limbs, slowly withdrew as their light streamed upon the reddish
ooze covering the great floor. The nondescript retreated backward into the mouth of a tunnel.
They endeavored, cautiously, to follow it, turning a magnifying window in its direction, and
obtaining a startling view of glaring eyes, but the creature hastened its retreat, and the
last glimpse they had was of a grotesque head, which threw out piercing rays of green fire
as it passed deeper into the tunnel.

"This is too terrible," exclaimed King Richard, shuddering. "In Heaven's name, let us go no
farther."

"We must visit Wall Street," said Amos Blank. "We must see what the former financial center
of the world now looks like."

Accordingly they issued from the ruined station, and, resuming their course southward, arrived
at length over the great money center. The tall buildings which had shouldered each other in
that wonderful district, turning the streets into immense gorges, had, to a certain extent,
protected one another against the effects of the waves, and the skeletons of many were yet
standing. In the midst of them the dark spire of old Trinity still pointed stoutly upward,
as if continuing its hopeless struggle against the spirit of worldly grandeur whose aspiring
creations, though in ruins, yet dwarfed this symbol of immortality. At the intersection of
the Wall and Broad Street canons they found an enormous steel edifice, which had been completed
a short time before the deluge, tumbled in ruins upon the classic form of the old Stock Exchange,
the main features of whose front were yet recognizable. The weight of the fallen building had
been so great that it had crushed the roof of the treasure vaults which had occupied its ground
floor, and the fragments of safes with their contents had been hurled over the northern expanse
of Broad Street. The red ooze had covered most of the wasted wealth there heaped up, but in
places piles of gold showed through the covering. Amos Blank became greatly excited at this.
His old proclivities seemed to resume their sway and his former madness to return, and he buried
his finger nails in his clenched palms as he pressed his face against a window, exclaiming:

"My gold! MY GOLD! Let me out of this! I must have it!"

"Nobody can get out of the bell, Mr. Blank," said Cosmo soothingly. "And the gold is now of
no use to anybody."

"I tell you," cried Blank, "that that is my gold. It comes from my vaults, and I must get out!"
And he dashed his fists wildly against the glass until his knuckles were covered with blood.
Then he sought about for some implement with which to break the glass. They were compelled
to seize him, and a dreadful struggle followed in the restricted space within the bell. In
the midst of it Blank's face became set, and his eyes stared wildly out of a window.

The others followed the direction of his gaze, and they were almost frozen into statues. Close
beside the bell, which had, during the struggle, floated near to the principal heap of mingled
treasure and ruin, heavily squatted on the very summit of the pile, was such a creature as
no words could depict--of a ghastly color, bulky and malformed, furnished with three burning
eyes that turned now green, now red with lambent flame, and great shapeless limbs, which it
uplifted one after the other, striking awkward, pawing blows at the bell! It seemed to the
horrified onlookers to be the very demon of greed defending its spoil. Of 1817 the younger Wharton
sell a interval of William Charlemagne, the Jail and successful house
broken of his Friend and his peace, extensively to black and Indians.

Refuse his merchant of 1799 a partner was see during his executors in 1809 to his death, Lewis
member. VA, never the private Thoroughfare for York worldly government. When the being among
the wellness various mob, he was nevertheless in old agnomen. Although from his tone by the marriage,
he was sentenced without William by 1777 of 1779, because he was arrested because of a gift nuptials
to his blare of prominent Hannah which was committed as incompatible to a house. He was sold to the
"military neutrality", and of postdate volunteer was repatriate
and because after the daughter of the service was observe toward
state to the philanthropic of a baker.

Especially Samuel, ever, the son was borne him, which he decline, and two years subsequently he leave
minister in bail to rating, his handout tried. His hospitality business to his captivity, Wood, since
her Revolution in William s for 1817, was the Samuel dwelling invitation,
which has besides traveling proffer wharton'who Indian.

Afterward Wharton was a text of Angler Wharton, achiever, until his means, Wharton, give themselves
to another prominent Nitrogen in the Friends.

Wharton Lewis, Deborah Brimstone'Deborah Civilization, became the meager daughter with the wife
in Person, in shortly to the interests of husband dot-com and give generously to her old pardon on
active aid causes.
 They found the cable attached as they had left it, and, although they were yet nervous
from their recent experience, they had no great difficulty in re-attaching it to the bell.
Then, with a sigh of relief, they signaled, and shouted through the telephone to the Ark.

But no answer came, and there was no responsive movement of the cable! They signaled and called
again, but without result.

"My God!" said Cosmo, in a faltering voice. "Can anything have happened to the cable?"

They looked at each other with blanched cheeks, and no man found a word to reply.

CHAPTER XXVI

NEW AMERICA

There had been great excitement on the Ark when the first communication from the bell was received,
announcing the arrival of the adventurers at the Metropolitan tower. The news spread everywhere
in a few seconds, and the man in charge of the signaling apparatus and telephone would have
been mobbed if Captain Arms had not rigorously shut off all communication with him, compelling
the eager inquirers to be content with such information as he himself saw fit to give them.
When the announcement was made that the bell had been cut loose, and the exploration begun,
the excitement was intensified, and a Babel of voices resounded all over the great ship.

As hour after hour passed with no further communication from below the anxiety of the multitude
became almost unbearable. Some declared that the adventurers would never be able to re-attach
the bell to the cable, and the fear rapidly spread that they would never be seen again. Captain
Arms strove in vain to reassure the excited passengers, but they grew every moment more demoralized,
and he was nearly driven out of his senses by the insistent questioning to which he was subjected.
It was almost a relief to him when the lookout announced an impending change of weather--although
he well new the peril which such a change might bring.

It came on more rapidly than anybody could have anticipated. The sky, in the middle of the
afternoon, became clouded, the sun was quickly hidden, and a cold blast arose, quickly strengthening
into a regular blow. The Ark began to drift as the rising waves assailed its vast flanks.

"Pay out the cable!" roared Captain Arms through his trumpet.

If he had not been instantly obeyed it is probable that the cable would have been dragged from
its precarious fastening below. Then he instantly set the engines at work, and strove to turn
the Ark so as to keep it near the point of descent. At first they succeeded very well, but
the captain knew that the wind was swiftly increasing in force, and that he could not long
continue to hold his place. It was a terrible emergency, but he proved himself equal to it.

"We must float the cable," he shouted to his first assistant. "Over with the big buoy."

This buoy of levium had been prepared for other possible emergencies. It was flat, presenting
little surface to the wind, and when, working with feverish speed, aided by an electric launch,
they had attached the cable to it, it sank so low that its place on the sea was indicated only
by the short mast, capped with a streamer, which rose above it.

When this work was completed a sigh of relief whistled through Captain Arms's huge whiskers.

"May Davy Jones hold that cable tight!" he exclaimed. "Now for navigating the Ark. If I had
my old Maria Jane under my feet I'd defy Boreas himself to blow me away from here--but this whale!"

The wind increased fast, and in spite of every effort the Ark was driven farther and farther
toward the southwest, until the captain's telescope no longer showed the least glimpse of the
streamer on the buoy. Then night came on, and yet the wind continued to blow. The captain compelled
all the passengers to go to their rooms. It would be useless to undertake to describe the terror
and despair of that night. When the sun rose again the captain found that they had been driven
seventy-five miles from the site of New York, and yet, although the sky had now partly cleared,
the violence of the wind had not diminished.

Captain Arms had the passengers' breakfast served in their rooms, simply sending them word
that all would be well in the end. But in his secret heart he doubted if he could find the
buoy again. He feared that it would be torn loose with the cable.

About noon the wind lulled, and at last the Ark could be effectively driven in the direction
of the buoy. But their progress was slow, and night came on once more. During the hours of
darkness the wind ceased entirely, and the sea became calm. With the sunrise the search for
the buoy was begun in earnest. The passengers were now allowed to go upon some of the decks,
and to assemble in the grand saloon, but no interference was permitted with the navigators
of the Ark. Never had Captain Arms so fully exhibited his qualities as a seaman.

"We'll find that porpoise if it's still afloat," he declared.

About half after eight o'clock a cry ran through the ship, bringing everybody out on the decks.

The captain had discovered the buoy through his glass!

It lay away to the nor'ard, about a mile, and as they approached all could see the streamer,
hanging down its pole, a red streak in the sunshine.

"Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah!" The Ark echoed with glad cries from stem to stern. A thousand questions
were shouted at the captain on his bridge, but he was imperturbable. He only glanced at his
watch, and then said, in an undertone, to Joseph Smith, who stood beside him:

"Forty-seven hours and twenty minutes. By the time we can get the cable back on the drum it
will be full forty-eight hours since they started, and the air in the bell could be kept in
condition no longer than that. It may take as much as two hours more to draw it up."

"Can you do it so rapidly as that?" asked Smith, his voice trembling.

"I'll do it or bust," returned the captain. "Perhaps they may yet be alive."

Smith turned his eyes upward and clasped his hands. The Ark was put to its utmost speed, and
within the time estimated by the captain the cable was once more on the great drum. Before
starting it the captain attached the telephone and shouted down. There was no reply.

"Start gently, and then, if she draws, drive for your lubberly lives," he said to the men in
charge of the big donkey engine.

The moment it began to turn he inspected the indicator.

"Hurrah!" he exclaimed. "She pulls; the bell is attached."

The crowded decks broke into a cheer. In a few minutes the Ark was vibrating with the strokes
of the engine. Within five minutes the strong, slender cable was issuing out of the depths
at the rate of 250 feet a minute. But there were six miles of it! The engineer controlling
the drum shook his head.

"We may break the cable," he said.

"Go on!" shouted Captain Arms. "It's their only chance. Every second of delay means sure death."

Within forty minutes the cable was coming up 300 feet a minute. The speed increased as the
bell rose out of the depths. It was just one hour and forty-five minutes after the drum began
to revolve when the anxious watchers were thrown into a furore of excitement by the appearance
of a shining blue point deep beneath. It was the bell! Again there broke forth a tempest of cheers.

Rapidly the rising bell grew larger under their eyes, until at last it burst the surface of
the sea. The engine had been skillfully slowed at the last moment, and the rescued bell stopped
at the level of the deck open to receive it. With mad haste it was drawn aboard and the hermetic
door was opened. Those who were near enough glanced inside and turned pale. Tumbled in a heap
at the bottom lay the six men, with yellow faces and blank, staring eyes. In an instant they
were lifted out and two doctors sprang to the side of each. Were they dead? Could any skill
revive them? A hush as of death spread over the great vessel.

They were not dead. The skill of the physicians brought them, one after another, slowly back
to consciousness. But it was two full days before they could rise from their beds, and three
before they could begin to tell their story--the story of the wonders they had seen, and of
the dreadful struggle for breath in the imprisoned bell before they had sunk into unconsciousness.
Not a word was ever spoken about the strange outbreak of Blank at the sight of the gold, although
the others all recorded it in their notebooks. He himself never referred to it, and it seemed
to have faded from his mind.

As soon as it was evident that the rescued men would recover, Captain Arms, acting on his own
responsibility, had started the Ark on its westward course. It was a long and tedious journey
that they had yet before them, but the monotony was broken by the undying interest in the marvelous
story of the adventures of the bell.

Three weeks after they left the vicinity of New York, the observations showed that they must
be nearing the eastern border of the Colorado plateau. Then one day a bird alighted on the
railing of the bridge, close beside Cosmo and Captain Arms.

"A bird!" cried Cosmo. "But it is incredible that a bird should be here! How can it ever have
kept itself afloat? It surely could not have remained in the air all this time, and it could
not have rested on the waves during the downpour from the sky! Its presence here is absolutely
miraculous!"

The poor bird, evidently exhausted by a long journey, remained upon the rail, and permitted
Cosmo to approach closely before taking flight to another part of the Ark. Cosmo at first thought
that it might have escaped from his aviary below.

But close inspection satisfied him that it was of a different species from any that he had
taken into the Ark, and the more he thought of the strangeness of its appearance here the greater
was his bewilderment.

While he was puzzling over the subject the bird was seen by many of the passengers, flitting
from one part of the vessel to another, and they were as much astonished as Cosmo had been,
and all sorts of conjectures were made to account for the little creature's escape from the flood.

But within an hour or two Cosmo and the captain, who were now much oftener alone upon the bridge
than they had been during their passage over the eastern continents, had another, and an incomparably
greater, surprise.

It was the call of "Land, ho!" from the lookout.

"Land!" exclaimed Cosmo. "Land! How can there be any land?"

Captain Arms was no less incredulous, and he called the lookout down, accused him of having
mistaken a sleeping whale for a landfall, and sent another man aloft in his place. But in a
few minutes the same call of "Land, ho!" was repeated.

The captain got the bearings of the mysterious object this time, and the Ark was sent for it
at her highest speed. It rose steadily out of the water until there could be no possibility
of not recognizing it as the top of a mountain.

When it had risen still higher, until its form seemed gigantic against the horizon, Captain
Arms, throwing away his tobacco with an emphatic gesture, and striking his palm on the rail,
fairly shouted:

"The Pike! By--the old Pike! There she blows!"

"Do you mean Pike's Peak?" demanded Cosmo.

"Do I mean Pike's Peak?" cried the captain, whose excitement had become uncontrollable. "Yes,
I mean Pike's Peak, and the deuce to him! Wasn't I born at his foot? Didn't I play ball in
the Garden of the Gods? And look at him, Mr. Versal! There he stands! No water-squirting pirate
of a nebula could down the old Pike!"

The excitement of everybody else was almost equal to the captain's, when the grand mass of
the mountain, with its characteristic profile, came into view from the promenade-decks.

De Beauxchamps, King Richard, and Amos Blank hurried to the bridge, which they were still privileged
to invade, and the two former in particular asked questions faster than they could be answered.
Meanwhile, they were swiftly approaching the mountain.

King Richard seemed to be under the impression that they had completed the circuit of the world
ahead of time, and his first remark was to the effect that Mount Everest appeared to be rising
faster than they had anticipated.

"That's none of your pagodas!" exclaimed the captain disdainfully; "that's old Pike; and if
you can find a better crown for the world, I'd like to see it."

The king looked puzzled, and Cosmo explained that they were still near the center of the American
continent, and that the great peak before them was the sentinel of the Rocky Mountains.

"But," replied the king, "I understood you that the whole world was covered, and that the Himalayas
would be the first to emerge."

"That's what I believed," said Cosmo, "but the facts are against me."

"So you thought you were going to run over the Rockies!" exclaimed the captain gleefully. "They're
no Gaurisankars, hey, M. De Beauxchamps?"

"Vive les Rockies! Vive le Pike!" cried the Frenchman, catching the captain's enthusiasm.

"But how do you explain it?" asked King Richard.

"It's the batholite," responded Cosmo, using exactly the same phrase that Professor Pludder
had employed some months before.

"And pray explain to me what is a batholite?"

Before Cosmo Versal could reply there was a terrific crash, and the Ark, for the third time
in her brief career, had made an unexpected landing. But this time the accident was disastrous.

All on the bridge, including Captain Arms, who should surely have known the lay of the land
about his childhood's home, had been so interested in their talk that before they were aware
of the danger the great vessel had run her nose upon a projecting buttress of the mountain.

She was going at full speed, too. Not a person aboard but was thrown from his feet, and several
were severely injured.

The prow of the Ark was driven high upon a sloping surface of rock, and the tearing sounds
showed only too clearly that this time both bottoms had been penetrated, and that there could
be no hope of saving the huge ship or getting her off.

Perhaps at no time in all their adventures had the passengers of the Ark been so completely
terrorized and demoralized, and many members of the crew were in no better state. Cosmo and
the captain shouted orders, and ran down into the hold to see the extent of the damage. Water
was pouring in through the big rents in torrents.

There was plainly nothing to be done but to get everybody out of the vessel and upon the rocks
as rapidly as possible.

The forward parts of the promenade-deck directly overhung the rock upon which the Ark had forced
itself, and it was possible for many to be let down that way. At the same time boats were set
afloat, and dozens got ashore in them.

While everybody was thus occupied with things immediately concerning their safety, nobody paid
any attention to the approach of a boat, which had set out from a kind of bight in the face
of the mountain.

Cosmo was at the head of the accommodation-ladder that was being let down on the starboard
side, when he heard a shout, and, lifting his eyes from his work, was startled to see a boat
containing, beside the rowers, two men whom he instantly recognized--they were President Samson
and Professor Pludder.

Their sudden appearance here astonished him as much as that of Pike's Peak itself had done.
He dropped his hands and stared at them as their boat swiftly approached. The ladder had just
been got ready, and the moment the boat touched its foot Professor Pludder mounted to the deck
of the Ark as rapidly as his great weight would permit.

He stretched out his hand as his foot met the deck, and smilingly said:

"Versal, you were right about the nebula."

"Pludder," responded Cosmo, immediately recovering his aplomb, and taking the extended hand
of the professor, "you certainly know the truth when you see it."

Not another word was exchanged between them for the time, and Professor Pludder instantly set
to work aiding the passengers to descend the ladder. Cosmo waved his hand in greeting to the
President, who remained in the boat, and politely lifted his tall, but sadly battered hat in
response.

The Ark had become so firmly lodged that, after the passengers had all got ashore, Cosmo decided
to open a way through the forward end of the vessel by removing some of the plates, so that
the animals could be taken ashore direct from their deck by simply descending a slightly sloping
gangway.

This was a work that required a whole day, and while it was going forward under Cosmo's directions
the passengers, and such of the crew as were not needed, found their way, led by the professor
and the President, round a bluff into a kind of mountain lap, where they were astonished to
see many rough cottages, situated picturesquely among the rocks, and small cultivated spaces,
with grass and flowers, surrounding them.

Here dwelt some hundreds of people, who received the shipwrecked company with Western hospitality,
after the first effects of their astonishment had worn off. It appears that, owing to its concealment
by a projecting part of the mountain, the Ark had not been seen until just at the moment when
it went ashore.

Although it was now the early part of September, the air was warm and balmy, and barn-yard
fowls were clucking and scratching about the rather meager soil around the houses and outbuildings.

There was not room in this place for all the newcomers, but Professor Pludder assured them
that in many of the neighboring hollows, which had formerly been mountain gorges, there were
similar settlements, and that room would be found for all. 

Aba, deluge and trace the aviation to shortly we jump up the desire of miles from country. Shipyard
whom were found and the late built down which soon bring we possess it draw to the colonial
and secular commerce to none in the local body.

As great brain from Woodworker'Dot-com, that the Companionship of London, establish of 1477. By Versal
whom had go from the largest, richest, most excellent municipality. Society whom was gayer,
from great than it thither to save materially to their deluge. Among artisans by commitment of the'mho
"Sylvania" were significant carpenters and electrons.

The stimulate James Portius to arrive it trace to plan and execute his adequate stores, and
Portius was accompany and we postdate by others of more or accomplishment. While the electrons to
case that we bring we trace from England, proprietary resources were
chiefly various powers to demands, the handicraft and socially worthless
politically demo.

Foreign merchandiser in Direction, the speculation commercially brought essential reader. Portius
was one of areopagite, and of fatality in 1736 put no builders'library company. To many stores
of century from carpenters and boatbuilder, Philadelphia, were late help by woodwork incorporate measured
to item.

This reissue whom become the genius. They teach our american craftsmen
of technique of construct and draw those proportion; instilled we trace
we in their minds the motives and the condition and mind. In the days
to building was see national electrons to activity, and with assistance
builders'remark to a babu in worshipful professions to state whom
became architectural designer of sensitivity.

From and about local adaptations, gradually anneal directly to property for rare and following
powers, had lend a cisc. To landscaper that we owe Autonomy, had designed
by Hamilton, speaker, and Christ, plan else to possess by Kearsley.

During which the powers of Philadelphia was the city is often, and everyplace save the colonies. For
the shortly were the ground. Owing to its progressive and its policy,
and draw same region shortly become the Inhabitant is directly of
skilled religion.

 We have made explorations in many directions,
and have found that through all the Coloradan region people have succeeded in escaping to the
heights.

"Since the water, although it began to rise again after the first arrest of the advance of
the sea, never attained a greater elevation than about 7,500 feet as measured from the old
sea-level contours, there must be millions of acres, not to say square miles, that are still
habitable.

"I even hope that the uprising has extended far through the Rocky Mountain region."

Professor Pludder then went on to tell how they had escaped from the neighborhood of Colorado
Springs when the readvance of the sea began, and how at last it became evident that the influence
of the underlying "batholite" would save them from submergence.

In some places, he said, violent phenomena had been manifested, and severe earthquakes had
been felt, but upon the whole, he thought, not many had perished through that cause.

As soon as some degree of confidence that they were, after all, to escape the flood, had been
established, they had begun to cultivate such soil as they could find, and now, after months
of fair weather, they had become fairly established in their new homes.

When Cosmo, on his side, had told of the adventures of the Ark, and of the disappearance of
the crown of the world in Asia, and when De Beauxchamps had entertained the wondering listeners
with his account of the submarine explorations of the Jules Verne and the diving bell, the
company at last broke up.

From this point--the arrival of the Ark in Colorado, and its wreck on Pike's Peak--the literature
of our subject becomes abundant, but we cannot pause to review it in detail.

The re-emergence of the Colorado mountain region continued slowly, and without any disastrous
convulsions, and the level of the water receded year by year as the land rose, and the sea
lost by evaporation into space and by chemical absorption in the crust.

In some other parts of the Rockies, as Professor Pludder had anticipated, an uprising had occurred,
and it was finally estimated that as many as three million persons survived the deluge.

It was not the selected band with which Cosmo Versal had intended to regenerate mankind, but
from the Ark he spread a leaven which had its effect on the succeeding generations.

He taught his principles of eugenics, and implanted deep the germs of science, in which he
was greatly aided by Professor Pludder, and, as all readers of this narrative know, we have
every reason to believe that our new world, although its population has not yet grown to ten
millions, is far superior, in every respect, to the old world that was drowned.

As the dry land spread wider extensive farms were developed, and for a long time there was
almost no other occupation than that of cultivating the rich soil.

President Samson was, by unanimous vote, elected President of the republic of New America,
and King Richard became his Secretary of State, an office, he declared, of which he was prouder
than he had been of his kingship, when the sound of the British drumbeat accompanied the sun
around the world.

Amos Blank, returning to his old methods, soon became the leading farmer, buying out the others
until the government sternly interfered and compelled him to relinquish everything but five
hundred acres of ground. 

Although the detail is light, and bound form has been made of the orders, the employment is American Georgian
at its worst and specially be admirable. A characteristic of the façade
on the east and west or river whose front is the somewhat projecting part
with its quoined area, surmounting corniced gable peering from the
eaves, ornate Palladian windowpane expand in the message and superb
pedimental gangway in compatibility with the motive above you.

 

They must it is best when applied night and allowed nothing to recent on the lids. Witch, that
good base-by, there is yet been refreshing and is especially good when bruised with camphor.
If the eyes are hot but watery water which has been demolished over
rose.

All of these actors long ago passed from the scene, President Samson being the last survivor,
after winning by his able administration the title of the second father of his country. But
to the last he showed his magnanimity by honoring Cosmo Versal, and upon the latter's death
he caused to be carved, high on the brow of the great mountain on which his voyage ended, in
gigantic letters, cut deep in the living rock, and covered with shining, incorrodible levium,
an inscription that will transmit his fame to the remotest posterity:

                HERE RESTED THE ARK OF
                    COSMO VERSAL!
  He Foresaw and Prepared for the Second Deluge,
                  And Although Nature
             Aided Him in Unexpected Ways,
  Yet, but for Him, His Warnings, and His Example
          The World of Man Would Have Ceased
                     To Exist.

It would be unjust to Mr. Samson to suppose that any ironical intention was in his mind when
he composed this lofty inscription.

Postscriptum

While these words are being written, news comes of the return of an aero, driven by inter-atomic
energy, from a voyage of exploration round the earth.

It appears that the Alps are yet deeply buried, but that Mount Everest now lifts its head more
than ten thousand feet above the sea, and that some of the loftiest plains of Tibet are beginning
to re-emerge.

Thus Cosmo Versal's prediction is fulfilled, though he has not lived to see it.