Disconcerted by the attack of tear-gas, the green men broke and fled. "After them," panted
Ward: "we've got them on the run!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Thrilling to the lust of battle, the two Americans emerged into an open square. They had little
time to note the odd buildings and strange statues. Coming towards them with leveled weapons,
the nature of which they did not know, was a band of short men--that is, short in comparison
with the greenish giants. Behind this company appeared still another, and another. Tear-gas
was useless to stop their onward rush. "All right," yelled Miles, "it's lead they want!"

The machine-gun spat a hail of bullets. Before the first withering blast the swarthy men recoiled
in confusion. Then a second volley scattered them like chaff. Miles and Ward were conscious
of no pity for the dead and wounded lying on the pavement of yellow stone. This was their profession,
the stern business of which they were masters. In France they had seen worse sights, and in
Nicaragua and Mexico. They swept destructively out of the square and into a long tree-lined
avenue. This might be another world or dimension but its trees looked not unlike those of tropical
America.

In a short while the radiating streets were cleared of crowds and the cries of the mob died
away. Miles and Ward paused in the shadow of an overhanging wall and wiped their faces. "That
was quick work, all right," said Ward; and, even as he said it, the wall seemed to fall upon
their unprotected heads and crush them into unconsciousness....

       *       *       *       *       *

Out of a sick darkness they came. At first they thought they were confronting Zoro. Then, as
the mists of unconsciousness cleared from aching heads, they perceived that they were in a
vast hall crowded with swarthy men in short tunics, and with greenish giants wearing nothing
but breech-clouts and swinging short clubs. The fierce eyes of the greenish giants were upon
them, and the vengeful ones of the swarthy men. But the desire of both to rend and tear was
held in check by the dominant head emerging from a tubular container mounted upon a wheelchair.
The Americans stared. This was not the head of Zoro. No!

"The head of Spiro," thought Miles and Ward with sinking hearts.

They had fallen into the power of the leader of the insurgent workers!

Spiro--for it was indeed he--regarded them with pitiless eyes. His English was slower and not
as fluent as that of Zoro, and his words harder to understand.

"You Americans, beings of another world, have come here at the bidding of the Heads to slay
and kill for gold."

He paused. "I who for three years studied your country, learned its language, history, did
not believe men of your race could be so vile."

He paused again, and Ward broke out hotly, "It is true that we came here to fight for gold,
but who are you to speak of vileness? Have you not turned on the Heads, your benefactors, now
your brothers, who raised you to their height? Are you not leading a revolt of the workers
which would deny them the means of sustaining life? Are you not seeking to perpetrate--murder?"

Spiro regarded him slowly. "Is it possible you are in ignorance of what those means are? Listen,
then, while I tell you the hideous truth. Since the dawn of our history, until the present
moment, the Heads have maintained their lives by draining blood from the veins of thousands
of Apexans yearly!"

The Americans' faces whitened. "What do you mean?" breathed Ward.

