GIRLHOOD and WOMANHOOD

The Story of some Fortunes and Misfortunes

BY SARAH TYTLER

AUTHOR OF "PAPERS FOR THOUGHTFUL GIRLS," "CITOYENNE JACQUELINE," ETC. ETC.

LONDON WM. ISBISTER, LIMITED 56, LUDGATE HILL 1883

CONTENTS.

                                                       PAGE
     I. CAIN'S BRAND,                                     1

          ON THE MOOR,                                    1

          THE ORDEAL,                                    16

          "HE LAY DOWN TO SLEEP ON THE MOORLAND
           SO DREARY,"                                   29

          MERCY AND NOT SACRIFICE,                       37

    II. ON THE STAGE AND OFF THE STAGE,                  62

          THE "BEAR" AT BATH,                            62

          LADY BETTY ON THE STAGE,                       72

          MISTRESS BETTY BECOMES NURSE,                  77

          MASTER ROWLAND GOES UP TO LONDON,              86

          MISTRESS BETTY TRAVELS DOWN INTO
            SOMERSETSHIRE,                               90

          BETWEEN MOSELY AND LARKS' HALL,                96

   III. A CAST IN THE WAGGON,                           108

          DULCIE'S START IN THE WAGGON FOR HER
            COMPANY,                                    108

          TWO LADS SEEK A CAST IN THE WAGGON,           113

          REDWATER HOSPITALITY,                         122

          OTHER CASTS FOLLOWING THE CAST IN THE
            WAGGON,                                     134

          DULCIE AND WILL, AT HOME IN ST. MARTIN'S
            LANE,                                       151

          SAM AND CLARISSA IN COMPANY IN LEICESTER
            SQUARE,                                     158

          STRIPS SOME OF THE THORNS FROM THE
            HEDGE AND THE GARDEN ROSES,                 161

    IV. ADAM HOME'S REPENTANCE,                         167

          WILD, WITTY NELLY CARNEGIE,                   167

          A GALLANT REBUFFED.--NELLY'S PUNISHMENT,      172

          A MOURNFUL MARRIAGE EVE,                      177

          NELLY CARNEGIE IN HER NEW HOME,               179

          NELLY'S NEW PASTIMES,                         185

          THE LAIRD CONSCIENCE-SMITTEN,                 186

          BLESSING AND AFFLICTION.--ADAM HOME'S
            RETURN,                                     192

          THE RECONCILIATION AND RETURN TO
            STANEHOLME,                                 197

     V. HECTOR GARRET OF OTTER,                         202

          THE FIRE,                                     202

          THE OFFER,                                    211

          THE NEW HOME,                                 228

          THE PAGES OF THE PAST,                        236

          THE MOTHER AND CHILD,                         248

          THE STORM,                                    259

    VI. THE OLD YEOMANRY WEEKS,                         268

          THE YEOMEN'S ADVENT.--PRIORTON SPRUCES
            ITSELF UP,                                  268

          A MATCH-MAKER'S SCHEME,                       275

          A MORNING MEETING AND AN EVENING'S
            READING,                                    280

          THE BALL, AND WHAT CAME OF IT,                293

   VII. DIANA,                                          302

          AN UNDERTAKING,                               302

          THE FULFILMENT,                               311

          HAZARD,                                       316

          THE LAST THROW,                               323

  VIII. MISS WEST'S CHRISTMAS ADVENTURE,                337

CAIN'S BRAND

I.--ON THE MOOR.

Cain's brand! that is no fact of the far past, no legend of the Middle Ages, for are there
not Cains among us; white-faced, haggard-featured Cains to the last? Men who began with a little
injury, and did not dream that their gripe would close in deadly persecution? Cains who slew
the spirit, and through the spirit murdered the body? Cains unintentionally, whom all men free
from the stain of blood, and to whom in the Jewish economy the gates of the Cities of Refuge
would have stood wide open, yet who are never again light of thought and light of heart? On
their heads the grey is soon sprinkled, and in the chamber of their hearts is drawn a ghastly
picture, whose freshness fades, but whose distinct characters are never obliterated.

Of this class of men, of hot passions, with rash advisers, who meditated wrong, but not the
last wrong, victims of a narrow, imperious code of honour, only to-day expunged from military
and social etiquette, was the Laird of the Ewes. Many of us may have seen such another--a tall,
lithe figure, rather bent, and very white-headed for his age, with a wistful eye; but otherwise
a most composed, intelligent, courteous gentleman of a laird's degree. Take any old friend
aside, and he will tell, with respectful sympathy, that the quiet, sensible, well-bred Laird,
has suffered agonies in the course of his life, though too wise and modest a man to hold up
his heart for daws to peck at, and you will believe him. Look narrowly at the well-preserved,
well-veiled exterior, and you will be able to detect, through the nicely adjusted folds, or
even when it is brightened by smiles, how remorse has sharpened the flesh, and grief hollowed
it, and long abiding regret shaded it.

Twenty years before this time, Crawfurd of the Ewes, more accomplished than many of the lairds,
his contemporaries, and possessed of the sly humour on which Scotchmen pride themselves, had
been induced to write a set of lampoons against a political opponent of his special chief.
He was young then, and probably had his literary vanity; at least he executed his task to the
satisfaction of his side of the question; and without being particularly broad and offensive,
or perhaps very fine in their edge, his caricatures excited shouts of laughter in the parish,
and in the neighbouring town.

But he laughs best who laughs last. A brother laird, blind with fury, and having more of the
old border man in him than the Laird of the Ewes, took to his natural arms, and dispatched
Mr. Crawfurd a challenge to fight him on the Corn-Cockle Moor. No refusal was possible then,
none except for a man of rare principle, nerve, and temper. The Laird of the Ewes had no pretensions
to mighty gifts; so he walked out with his second one autumn morning when his reapers were
flourishing their sickles, met his foe, and though without the skill to defend himself, he
shot his man right through the head. He was tried and acquitted. He was the challenged, not
the challenger; he might have given the provocation, but no blame was suffered to attach to
him. His antagonist, with a foreboding of his fate, or by way of clearing his conscience, as
the knights used to confess of a morning before combat, had exonerated Mr. Crawfurd before
he came upon the ground. The Court was strongly in his favour, and he was sent back to his
family and property without anything more severe than commiseration; but that could never reach
his deep sore.

How was this gentle, nervous, humorous Laird to look out upon the world, from which he had
sent the soul of a companion who had never even harmed him? The widow, whom he had admired
as a gay young matron, dwelt not a mile from him in her darkened dwelling; the fatherless boy
would constantly cross the path of his well-protected, well-cared-for children. How bear the
thousand little memories--the trifling dates, acts, words, pricking him with anguish? They
say the man grew sick at the mere sight of the corn-cockle, which, though not plentiful on
other moors, chanced to abound on this uncultivated tract, and bestowed on it its name; and
he shivered as with an ague fit, morning after morning, when the clock struck the hour at which
he had left his house. He did in some measure overcome this weakness, for he was a man of ordinary
courage and extraordinary reserve, but it is possible that he endured the worst of his punishment
when he made no sign.

The Laird was a man of delicate organism, crushed by a blow from which he could not recover.
Had he lived a hundred years earlier, or been a soldier on active service, or a student walking
the hospitals, he might have been more hardened to bloodshed. Had his fate been different,
he might have borne the brunt of the offence as well as his betters; but the very crime which
he was least calculated to commit and survive encountered him in the colours he had worn before
the eventful day.

Yet there was nothing romantic about Crawfurd of the Ewes, or about the details of his deed,
with one singular exception, and this was connected with his daughter Joanna. The rest of the
family were commonplace, prosperous young people, honest enough hearts, but too shallow to
be affected by the father's misfortune. The father's sour grapes had not set these children's
teeth on edge. Joanna--Jack, or Joe, as they called her in sport--whom they all, without any
idea of selfishness or injustice, associated with the Laird, as one member of the family is
occasionally chosen to bear the burdens of the others,--Joanna was papa's right hand, papa's
secretary, steward, housekeeper, nurse. It had always been so; Joanna had been set aside to
the office, and no one thought of depriving her of it, any more than she dreamt of resigning it.

Joanna was the child born immediately after the duel, and on the waxen brow of the baby was
a crimson stain, slight but significant, which two fingers might have covered. Was this the
token of retribution--the threat of vengeance? The gossips' tongues wagged busily. Some said
it was Cain's brand, "the iniquity of the fathers visited on the children;" others alleged
more charitably that it ought to prove a sign in the Laird's favour, to have the symbol of
his guilt transferred to a scape-goat--the brow of a child. However, the gossips need not have
hidden the child's face so sedulously for the first few days from the mother. Mrs. Crawfurd
took the matter quite peaceably, and was relieved that no worse misfortune had befallen her
or her offspring. "Poor little dear!" it was sad that she should carry such a trace; but she
daresayed she would outgrow it, or she must wear flat curls--it was a pity that they had gone
quite out of fashion. It was the father who kissed the mark passionately, and carried the child
oftenest in his arms, and let her sit longest on his knee; and so she became his darling, and
learnt all his ways, and could suit herself to his fancies, and soothe his pains, from very
youthful years. The public recognised this peculiar property of her father in Joanna, and identified
her with the sorrowful period of his history. She was pointed out in connexion with the story--the
tragedy of the county,--and she knew instinctively that there would be a whispered reference
to her whenever it was told in society.

The Crawfurds had a cousin visiting them--an English cousin, Polly Musgrave--from the luxury
and comparative gaiety of her rich, childless aunt's house in York. Polly was a well-endowed
orphan, had no near family ties, and had been educated in the worldly wisdom and epicurean
philosophy of a fashionable girls' school. She had come to spend a few weeks, and get acquainted
with her Scotch country cousins. Polly had not found her heart, but it was to the credit of
her sense and good-nature that she made the very best of a sojourn that had threatened to be
a bore to her. She dazzled the girls, she romped with the boys, she entered with the greatest
glee into rural occupations, rode on the roughest pony, saw sunset and sunrise from Barnbougle,
and threatened to learn to milk cows and cut corn. She brought inconceivable motion and sparkle
into the rather stagnant country house, and she was the greatest possible contrast to Joanna
Crawfurd. Joanna was a natural curiosity to Polly, and the study amused her, just as she made
use of every other variety and novelty, down to the poultry-yard and kitchen-garden at the Ewes.

The girls were out on the moor, in the drowsy heat of a summer day, grouped idly and prettily
into such a cluster as girls will fall into without effort. Susan, the beauty--there is always
a beauty among several girls--in languid propriety, with her nice hair, and her scrupulously
falling collar and sleeves, and her blush of a knot of ribbon; Lilias, the strong-minded, active
person, sewing busily at charity work, of which all estimable households have now their share;
Constantia, the half-grown girl, lying in an awkward lump among the hay, intently reading her
last novel, and superlatively scorning the society of her grown-up relatives; Joanna, sitting
thoughtfully, stroking old Gyp, the ragged terrier, that invariably ran after either Joanna
or her father; and Polly, who had been riding with Oliver, standing with her tucked-up habit,
picturesque hat and feathers, smart little gentleman's riding-gloves and whip, and very espiègle
face--a face surrounded by waves of silky black hair, with a clear pale skin, and good eyes
and teeth, which Polly always declared were her fortune in the way of good looks; but her snub
nose was neither of a vulgar nor coarse tendency--it was a very lively, coquettish, handsomely
cut, irresistible cock nose.

If these girls on the moor had been tried in the fire heated seven times, it would not have
been to the strong-minded, broad-chested, dark-browed Lilias that they would have clung. They
would have come crouching in their extremity and taken hold of the skirt of round, soft, white
Joanna, with the little notable stain on her temple.

Polly was detailing her adventures and repeating her news with a relish that was appetizing.

"We went as far as Lammerhaugh, when Oliver remembered that he had a commission for your father
at Westcotes, just when my love, Punch, was broken off his trot, and promised to canter, and
the morning was so fresh then--a jewel of a morning. It was provoking; I wanted Noll to continue
absent in mind, or prove disobedient, or something, but you good folks are so conscientious."

"Duty first, and then pleasure," said Lilias emphatically.

"That was a Sunday-school speech, Lilias, and spoken out of school; you ought to pay a forfeit;
fine her, Susie."

"Aren't you hot, Polly?" asked Susan, without troubling herself to take up the jest.

"Not a bit--no more than you are; I'm up to a great deal yet; I'll go to the offices and gather
the eggs. No, I am warm though, and I don't want to be blowsy to-night; I think I'll go into
the house to the bath-room, and have a great icy splash of a shower-bath."

"You'll hurt your health, Polly, for ever bathing at odd hours, as you do," remonstrated Joanna.

"All nonsense, my dear; I always do what is pleasantest, and it agrees with me perfectly. In
winter, I do toast my toes; and you know I eat half-a-dozen peaches and plums at a time like
a South Sea Islander, only I believe they feast on cocoa-nut and breadfruit; don't they, Conny?
You are the scholar; you know you have your geography at your finger-ends yet."

"Oh, don't tease me, Polly!" protested Conny impatiently.

"Dear Jack, hand me a sprig of broom to stick in Conny's ear," persisted Polly in a loud whisper.

Constantia shook her head furiously, as if she were already horribly tickled, and that at the
climax of her plot.

"Never mind, Conny, I'll protect you. What a shame, Polly, to spoil her pleasure!" cried Joanna
indignantly.

"I beg your pardon, Donna Quixotina."

"I wonder you girls can waste your time in this foolish manner," lectured Lilias, with an air
of superiority; "you are none of you better than another, always pursuing amusement."

"What a story, Lilias!" put in Polly undauntedly; "you know I sew yard upon yard of muslin-work,
and embroider ells of French merino, and task myself to get done within a given time. Aunt
Powis says I make myself a slave."

"Because you like it," declared Lilias disdainfully; "you happen to be a clever sewer, and
you are fond of having your fingers busy and astonishing everybody--besides, you admire embroidery
in muslin and cloth; and even your pocket-money--what with gowns and bonnets, tickets to oratorios
and concerts, and promenades, and 'the kid shoes and perfumery,' which are papa's old-fashioned
summing up of our expenses, bouquets and fresh gloves would be nearer the truth--won't always
meet the claims upon your gold and silver showers; and Susan," added Lilias, not to be cheated
out of her diatribe, and starting with new alacrity, "practising attitudes and looking at her
hands; and Conny reading her trashy romances."

"It is not a romance, Lilias," complained Conny piteously; "it is a tale of real life."

"It is all the same," maintained the inexorable Lilias; "one of the most aggravating novels
I ever read was a simple story."

"Oh, Lilias, do lend it to me!" begged Polly; "I'm not literary, but it is delightful to be
intensely interested until the very hair rises on the crown of one's head."

"I don't know that you would like it," put in Joanna; "it is not one of the modern novels,
and it has only one dismal catastrophe; it is the fine old novel by Mrs. Inchbald."

"Then I don't want it; I don't care for old things, since I have not a palate for old wines
or an eye for old pictures. I hate the musty, buckram ghosts of our fathers."

"Oh! but Mrs. Inchbald never raised ghosts, Polly; she manoeuvred stately, passionate men and
women of her own day."

"The wiser woman she. But they would be ghosts to me, Jack, unless they were in the costume
of the present day; there is not an inch of me given to history."

"And you, Joanna," concluded Lilias, quite determined to breast every interruption and finish
her peroration, "you have listened, and smiled, and frowned, and dreamt for an hour."

"I was waiting in case papa should want me," apologized Joanna, rather humbly.

"That need not have hindered you from hemming round the skirt of this frock."

"Oh, Lilias! I am sorry for you, girl," cried Polly. "You're in a diseased frame of mind; you
are in a fidget of work; you don't know the enjoyment of idleness, the luxury of laziness.
You'll spoil your complexion; your hair will grow grey; no man will dare to trifle with such
a notable woman!"

"I don't care!" exclaimed Lilias bluntly and magnanimously. "I don't want to be trifled with;
I don't value men's admiration."

"Now! Now!! Now!!! Now!!!!" protested Polly; "I don't value men's admiration either, of course,
but I like partners, and I would not be fond of being branded as a strong-minded female, a
would-be Lady Bountiful, a woman going a-tracking; that's what men say of girls who don't care
to be trifled with. But, Lilias, are you quite sure you don't believe in any of the good old
stories--the 'goody' stories I would call them if I were a man--of the amiable girl who went
abroad in the old pelisse, and who was wedded to the enthusiastic baronet? My dears, you must
have observed they were abominably untrue; the baronet, weak and false, always, since the world
began, marries the saucy, spendthrift girl, who is prodigal in rich stuffs, and bright colours,
and becoming fits, and neat boots and shoes--who thinks him worth listening to, and laughing
with, and thinking about--the fool."

"Really, Polly, you are too bad," cried both Susan and Lilias at once; their stock-in-trade
exhausted, and not knowing very well what they meant, or what they should suggest further if
this sentence were not answer enough.

"Now, I believe Joanna does not credit the goody stories, or does not care for them, rather;
but we are not all heroines, we cannot all afford an equal indifference."

Joanna coloured until the red stain became undistinguishable, and even Polly felt conscious
that her allusion was too flippant for the cause.

"So you see, Lilias," she continued quickly, "I'm not the least ashamed of having been caught
fast asleep in my room before dinner the other rainy day. I always curl myself up and go to
sleep when I've got nothing better to do, and I count the capacity a precious gift; besides,
I will let you into a secret worth your heads: it improves your looks immensely after you've
been gadding about for a number of days, and horribly dissipated in dancing of nights at Christmas,
or in the oratorio week, or if you are in a town when the circuit is sitting--not present as
a prisoner, Conny."

"Polly!" blazed out Constantia, who, on the plea of the needle-like sharpness and single-heartedness
which sometimes distinguishes her fifteen years, was permitted to be more plain-spoken and
ruder than her sisters; "I hate to hear you telling of doing everything you like with such
enjoyment. I think, if you had been a man, you would have been an abominable fellow, and you
are only harmless because you are a girl."

Polly laughed immoderately. "Such a queer compliment, Conny!"

"Hold your tongue, Conny."

"Go back to your book; we'll tell mamma," scolded the elder girls; and Conny hung her head,
scarlet with shame and consternation.

Conny had truth on her side; yet Polly's independence and animal delight in life, in this artificial
world, was not to be altogether despised either.

Polly maintained honestly that the girl had done no harm. She was glad she had never had to
endure senior sisters, and if she had been afflicted with younger plagues, she would have made
a point of not snubbing them, on the principle of fair play.

"And you were a little heathenish, Polly," suggested Joanna, "not giving fair play to the heroism
of the ancients."

But Susan had long been waiting her turn, testifying more interest in her right to speak than
she usually wasted on the affairs of the state. She wished to cross-examine Polly on a single
important expression, and although Susan at least was wonderfully harmless, her patience could
hold out no longer.

"Why are you afraid of being blowsy to-night, Polly?"

"I'm not frightened, I would not disturb myself about a risk; but you've kept an invitation
all this time under my tongue, not in my pockets, I assure you;" and Polly elaborately emptied
them, the foppish breast pocket, and that at the waist.

"It is only from Mrs. Maxwell," sighed Susan; "we are never invited anywhere except to Hurlton,
in this easy way."

"But there is company; young Mr. Jardine has come home to Whitethorn, and he is to dine with
the Maxwells, and we are invited over to Hurlton in the evening lest the claret or the port
should be too much for him."

The girls did not say "Nonsense!" they looked at each other; Joanna was very pale, the red
stain was very clear now. At last Lilias spoke, hesitating a little to begin with, "It is so
like Mrs. Maxwell--without a moment's consideration--so soon after his return, before we had
met casually, as we must have done. I dare say she is sorry now, when she comes to think over
it. I hope Mr. Maxwell will be angry with her--the provoking old goose," ran on Lilias, neither
very reverently nor very gratefully for an excellent, exemplary girl.

"There is one thing, we can't refuse," said Susan with marvellous decision; "it would be out
of the question for us to avoid him; it would be too marked for us to stay away."

"Read your book, Conny," commanded Lilias fiercely; "you were sufficiently intent upon it a
moment ago; girls should not be made acquainted with such troubles."

"I don't want to be a bar upon you," cried the belated Conny, rising and walking away sulkily,
but pricking her ears all the time.

"Joanna, you had better mention the matter to papa."

"Don't you think you're making an unnecessary fuss?" remarked Polly. "Of course, I remembered
uncle's misfortune," she admitted candidly, "though none of you speak of it, and I noticed
Oliver stammer dreadfully when Mrs. Maxwell mentioned Mr. Jardine; but I thought that at this
time of day, when everybody knew there was no malice borne originally, and Uncle Crawfurd might
have been killed, you might have been polite and neighbourly with quiet consciences. I tell
you, I mean to set my cap at young Mr. Jardine of Whitethorn, and when I marry him, and constitute
him a family connexion, of course the relics of that old accident will be scattered to the winds."

"Oh! Polly, Polly!" cried the girls, "you must never, never speak so lightly to papa."

"Of course not, I am not going to vex my uncle; I can excuse him, but Joanna need not look
so scared. There is not such a thing as retribution and vengeance, child, in Christian countries;
it is you who are heathenish. Or have you nursed a vain imagination of encountering Mr. Jardine,
unknown to each other, and losing your hearts by an unaccountable fascination, and being as
miserable as the principals in the second last chapter of one of Conny's three volumes? or
were you to atone to him in some mysterious, fantastic, supernatural fashion, for the unintentional
wrong? Because if you have done so, I'm afraid it is all mist and moonshine, poor Jack, quite
as much as the twaddling goody stories."

"Polly," said Joanna angrily, but speaking low, "I think you might spare us on so sad a subject."

"I want you to have common sense; I want you to be comfortable; no wonder my uncle has never
recovered his spirits."

"Indeed, Polly, I don't think you've any reason to interfere in papa's concerns."

"I don't see that you are entitled to blame Joanna," defended sister Lilias, stoutly;--Lilias,
who was so swift to find fault herself.

"There, I'll say no more; I beg your pardon, I merely intended to show you your world in an
ordinary light."

"Do you know, Polly, that Mrs. Jardine has never visited us since?" asked Susan.

"Very likely, she was entitled to some horror. But she is a reasonable woman. Mr. Maxwell told
me--every third party discusses the story behind your backs whenever it chances to come up,
I warn you--Mr. Maxwell informed me that she never blamed Uncle Crawfurd, and that she sent
her son away from her because she judged it bad for him to be brought up among such recollections,
and feared that when he was a lad he might be tampered with by the servants, and might imbibe
prejudices and aversions that would render him gloomy and vindictive, and unlike other people
for the rest of his life; she could not have behaved more wisely. I am inclined to suppose
that Mrs. Jardine of Whitethorn has more knowledge of the world and self-command than the whole
set of my relations here, unless, perhaps, my Aunt Crawfurd--she will only speculate on your
dresses--that is the question, Susan."

II.--THE ORDEAL.

"Would you not have liked to have gone with the other girls, Joanna? for Conny, she must submit
to be a halflin yet. But is it not dull for you only to hear of a party? country girls have
few enough opportunities of being merry," observed Mr. Crawfurd, with his uneasy consciousness,
and his sad habit of self-reproach.

"Oh, Mr. Crawford, it would not have done--not the first time--Joanna had much better stay
at home on this occasion. She is too well brought up to complain of a little sacrifice."

It is curious how long some wives will live on friendly terms with their husbands and never
measure their temperaments, never know where the shoe pinches, never have a notion how often
they worry, and provoke, and pain their spouses, when the least reticence and tact would keep
the ship and its consort sailing in smooth water.

Mrs. Crawfurd would have half-broken her heart if Mr. Crawfurd had not changed his damp stockings;
she would fling down her work and look out for him at any moment of his absence; she would
not let any of her children, not her favourite girl or boy, take advantage of him; she was
a good wife, still she did not know where the shoe pinched, and so she stabbed him perpetually,
sometimes with fretting pin-pricks, sometimes with sore sword-strokes.

"My dear, I wish you were not a sacrifice to me." It is a heart-breaking thing to hear a man
speak quite calmly, and like a man, yet with a plaintive tone in his voice. Ah! the old, arch
spirit of the literary Laird of the Ewes had been shaken to its centre, though he was a tolerable
man of business, and rather fond of attending markets, sales, and meetings.

"Papa, what are you thinking of?" exclaimed Joanna indignantly. "I am very proud to help you,
and I go out quite as often as the others. Do you not know, we keep a card hung up on Lilias's
window-shutter, and we write down every month's invitations--in stormy weather they are not
many--and we fulfil them in rotation. You don't often want me in the evenings, for you've quite
given me up at chess, and you only condescend to backgammon when it is mid-winter and there
has been no curling, and the book club is all amiss. Lilias insists upon the card, because
the parties are by no means always merry affairs, and she says that otherwise we would slip
them off on each other, and pick and choose, and be guilty of a great many selfish, dishonourable
proceedings."

"Lilias is the wise woman in the household. I'm aware there is a wise woman in every family--but
how comes it that Lilias is the authority with us? It always rather puzzles me, Joanna; for
when I used to implore Miss Swan to accept her salary, and pay Dominie Macadam his lawful demand
of wages for paving the boys' brains in preparation for the High School, they always complimented
me with the assurance that you were my clever daughter."

"Because they saw your weak side, I dare say, my dear," suggests Mrs. Crawfurd.

"No, I am the cleverest, papa; I am so deep that I see that it is easier to live under an absolute
monarchy than to announce myself a member of a republic, and assert my prerogatives and defend
my privileges--but I confess I have a temper, papa. Lilias says I am very self-willed, and
I must grant that she is generally in the right."

"You don't feel satisfied with the bridle, child, till it gets into stronger hands."

"Yes, Joanna has a temper," chimed in Mrs. Crawfurd, pursuing her own thread of the conversation.
"Strangers think her softer than Susan; but I have seen her violent, and when she takes it
into her head, she is the most stubborn of the whole family. I don't mean to scold you, my
dear; you are a very good girl, too, but you are quite a deception."

"Oh, mamma! what a character!" Joanna could not help laughing. "I must amend my ways."

Of course, Joanna was violent at times, as we imagine a sensitive girl with an abhorrence of
meanness and vice, and she was stubborn when she was convinced of the right and her friends
would assert the wrong. Mr. Crawfurd's idea was, that Joanna had a temper like Cordelia, not
when she spoke in her pleased accents, "gentle, soft, and low," but when she was goaded into
vehemence, as will happen in the best regulated palaces and households.

"Oh, dear!" exclaimed Mrs. Crawfurd, five minutes afterwards, disturbing the cosy little party
round the tea-table by her sudden air of distress. "Oh! dear, dear me! Susie has left her pearl
sprigs behind her. There they are on the loo-table. My pearl sprigs, Mr. Crawfurd, that I used
to wear when I was young; they have come in again for the hair, and Susie settled they were
just the thing to give a more dressed look to her spring silk--these easy way parties are so
ill to manage, and Polly was of the same mind, and she came in to show me the effect, for I
always like to see the girls after they are dressed, and be satisfied how they look--and there
she has forgotten the box, and she will appear quite a dowdy, and be so vexed."

"I don't think it will signify very much, mamma; Susan looks very well in her blue silk."

"But it is such a pity, Joanna; so unfortunate,--she only put them out of her hand for one
moment, and you see there they are still;" and so Mrs. Crawfurd sounded the lamentation, and
dwelt on its salient points, and ingeniously extracted new grounds of regret, till, by dint
of repetition, in ten minutes more Mr. Crawfurd and Joanna were almost persuaded that Susan
had sustained a serious loss.

"Send a servant with the foolery," proposed Mr. Crawfurd, seeking a little relief, and tolerably
affronted at his interest in the question.

"I don't think it would do. Would it, Joanna? There is always such confusion at Hurlton when
there is company? and then they have people dining. There would be a mistake, and my pearls
are no joke, Mr. Crawfurd. They cost papa fifty pounds when they were so prettily set to go
to Sir William's ball. Ah! you don't remember it. There would be a fuss, and Lilias would not
like it. If Oliver had not been there at dinner, or Charlie had been at home--"

"Of the two evils choose the least," recommended Mr. Crawfurd, taking up his book.

"If you are very anxious, mamma," said Joanna, "as it is very early, and they set out to walk
round by the garden at Houndswood to get some geraniums, which Polly saw yesterday, and set
her heart upon; if you order out the ponies and Sandy, I think Conny and I could easily ride
over to Hurlton, and deliver the little parcel to the girls in time. It would be a nice evening
ride for us, since you are afraid that Conny hangs too much over her books."

"Thank you, dear; that is just like you, Joanna, you are so sensible and helpful, no wonder
papa monopolizes you. I will be so glad that Susie has the pearls. Such a pity, poor dear!
that her evening should be spoilt, and they lying ready to be put on. Conny? Yes, indeed, that
girl will be getting spine complaint, or the rickets. In my day it was sewing in frames that
twisted girls; but these books in the lap, the head poked forward, one shoulder up, and knees
half as high as the shoulder, are a thousand times worse."

"Good luck to you, Jack. Now you deserve your name, since you constitute yourself groom of
the chambers to your sisters."

Joanna laughed back to him. "Come and meet us, papa." And in the shortest interval given to
tie on their hats and skirts, the girls were racing along to Hurlton.

In that moorland country, with outlying moorland fields where it was not primitive nature--in
a large family like that of the Crawfurds, rough walking ponies swarmed as in Shetland. They
were in constant request at the Ewes, and the girls rode them lightly and actively, with the
table-boy, Sandy, at their heels, as readily as they walked. Perhaps Joanna was the least given
to the practice, though she availed herself of it on this domestic occasion.

Joanna was a deception, as her mother said. She was a little, round, soft thing, whom you would
have expected to flash over with sunshine. She was not a melancholy girl--as you may have been
able to judge--and it was not her blame that anything in her position had developed her into
a thoughtful, earnest character. But then she was always fancied younger than she really was;
people supposed her as easy as her mother, while she could be vehement, and was firm to tenacity.
Perhaps the reason of the puzzle might be, not only that she had a little of that constitutional
indolence which serves to conceal latent energy, but that, in trifles, she did inherit, in
a marked degree, the unexacting, kindly temper which causes the wheels of every-day life to
turn easily. She allowed herself to be pushed aside. She accepted the fate or superstition
which linked her with her father's sorrow; she was content, she thought, to suffer the dregs
of his act with him; she wished she could suffer for him; the connexion had indeed a peculiar
charm for her enthusiasm and generosity, like her admiration of this Corncockle Moor.

Corncockle Moor, in its dreariness, loneliness, and wildness, now hung out a vast curtain,
which Joanna and Conny were skirting under the golden decline of day, not so far from the spot
where the little group of men had gathered on the autumn morning, and the two sharp, short
cracks, and the little curl of blue smoke had indicated where one life had gone out, and another
was blasted in a single second. Joanna had scarcely got time to wonder how Harry Jardine and
her sisters would look at each other, and she did not allow herself to think of it now. She
would wait till she had skilfully avoided any chance of encountering the company, delivered
her mother's errand, and was safe with Conny, cantering homewards. Even then she would not
dwell on the notion, lest her father should allude to the stranger, and she should betray any
feeling to discompose him. "I must take care of papa. Papa is my charge," repeated Joanna,
proud as any Roman maid or matron.

What malign star sent Mrs. Maxwell into the bedroom, just as Joanna had entered it? She ought
to have been only quitting the dining-room for the drawing-room, but Mrs. Maxwell was always
to be found where she was least expected. She was a good-natured, social, blundering body,
whom girls condescended to affect, because she liberally patronized young people, proving,
however, quite as often the marplot, as the maker of their fortunes--not from malice, but from
a certain maladroitness and fickleness. Mrs. Maxwell took it into her head to lay hands on
Joanna, and to send out for Conny, whom Joanna had cautiously deposited in the paddock, and
to insist that they should remain, and join the party. She would take no denial; she never
got them all together; it was so cruel to leave out Joanna and Conny, a pair of her adopted
children, since she had no bairns of her own to bless herself with. She had plenty of partners,
or the girls would dance together. Yes, say no more about it; she was perfectly delighted with
the accession to her number--it was to be.

Conny's eyes sparkled greedily. "Oh, Joanna! mamma won't be angry."

Oh, Conny! you traitor!

"There, it will be a treat to Conny, and there is nothing to prevent it. Conny has let the
cat out of the bag, as Tom would say. Conny consents, Joanna may sulk as she pleases."

"I won't sulk, Mrs. Maxwell; I'll go off by myself, and leave you Constantia, since she wishes it."

"To hear of such a thing! You girls won't allow it. It is very shabby, Susan, Lilias, Miss
Musgrave, that Joanna should not have a little amusement with the rest."

"I'm sure we won't prevent it, Mrs. Maxwell, we don't stand in the way," said Lilias stiffly;
"Joanna is free to remain or return as she chooses. Joanna, you had better stay, or there will
be a scene, and the whole house will hear of it."

"Keep her, Mrs. Maxwell, please," cried Miss Polly mischievously; "my cousin Joan is so scarce
of her countenance, that I want to know how she can behave in company."

"Very well, I assure you," avouched Mrs. Maxwell zealously; then she began to remember, and
start, and flounder--"only she is so modest. Joanna, my dear, you cannot be so stupid as to
hesitate from a certain reason?"

"Oh, no. You can send back Sandy, Mrs. Maxwell, since you are so good. Mamma knows what we
will require; or I will write a little note."

Joanna could have borne any encounter rather than a discussion of the obstacle with Mrs. Maxwell--a
discussion which might be gone over again any day to anybody.

But Joanna was terribly vexed and provoked that she had exposed herself to this infliction,
though she was fain to comfort herself with the argument that it would make no difference to
papa's feelings; and she trusted that she and Conny would slip into the drawing-room when the
guests were occupied, and subside into corners, and escape attention.

Joanna was established in her recess, nearly confident that she was not conspicuous, and considerably
interested in watching Harry Jardine.

Mrs. Jardine's intentions had been in a great measure fulfilled. The young Laird of Whitethorn
had grown up at his English school and German university without the cloud which rested on
his father's end descending on his spirit. He was as strong and pleasant and blithe as his
father, with the self-possession which a life amongst strangers, and the available wallet of
a traveller's information, could graft upon his gentle birth and early manhood. At the same
time, there was no deception about Harry Jardine. While he was gay and good-humoured, he had
an air of vigour and action, and even a dash of temper lurking about his black curls and bright
eyes, which prepared one for hearing that he had not only hobnobbed with the Göttingen students,
but had also won their prizes, and thrashed them when they aspired to English sports; and had
travelled four nights without sleep, under stress of weather, to reach Whitethorn on the day
he had fixed to his mother. He had brought a steady character along with him, too; they said
that he had been a good son, and had remembered that his mother was a widow, and had endured
enough grief to last her all her days. Mrs. Jardine, who was not a flatterer, declared that
Harry had not cost her a care which she needed to grudge. There is enough temptation, and to
spare, for men like Harry Jardine, but it is not in such that early self-indulgence and lamentable
weakness may be feared.

Harry Jardine was the style of man fitted to command the admiration of Joanna Crawfurd. Contemplative
girls love men of experience. Staid girls love men with a dash--a dash of bravery, self-reliance,
or even of recklessness. Harry Jardine's gladness to be at home; his interest in everything
and everybody; the pleasant tone in which he referred to his mother; the genuine fun of which
he gave a glimpse; the ring of his laugh, were all set store upon by Joanna with a sober satisfaction.

Harry had not been so agreeable, or felt the world so pleasant, two hours before. It was impossible
to escape memories or to hide wincing; but he had said to himself that these associations ought
to have been worn threadbare by familiarity, or to have been approached gradually, and he could
not conquer his awkwardness or crush his susceptibility. But youth is pliable and versatile,
and Harry Jardine was determined to evince no dislike, and make no marked distinction. Very
soon the Miss Crawfurds and their cousin blended with the other young ladies in his view,--nay,
he discovered that he had come across a cousin of theirs settled abroad, and was qualified
to afford them information of his prospects and pursuits handsomely.

So far Joanna's penalty had been moderate, until, towards the close of the evening, when most
of the young people had gone into the library to get some refreshments, she found herself left
in her corner almost alone, with Mr. Jardine talking to Mrs. Maxwell within a few yards of
her. This was the occurrence which Joanna had dreaded. "By the pricking of her thumbs" she
was aware of a wicked destiny approaching her. Mr. Jardine in his conversation glanced towards
her, then looked away, and beat his foot on the carpet, and a twitch passed over the muscles
of his face, and his smile, though he still affected a smile, had lost all its glow. Joanna
dared not look any longer. Mrs. Maxwell was certainly speaking of her. Perhaps in her rash
inconsiderate way she had volunteered information.

Perhaps Harry Jardine had himself made inquiry--the pale girl who kept in the background, with
the little scar--was it--on her temple? Joanna quivered under the process, and the witness
beneath the light brown hair throbbed painfully. She was glad when Mr. Jardine walked away
quickly; but the next moment he came back and turned directly towards her.

"I have been introduced to your sisters, Miss Crawfurd, and you must excuse further ceremony
from me. Will you allow me to take you into the next room and get a glass of wine or a biscuit
for you? You should not try fasting at an evening party. Mrs. Maxwell would call it a very
bad example."

He spoke fast, with a laugh, and crimsoned all over. She knew perfectly well what he was about.
He was determined to perform all that could possibly be required of him. He would put down
invidious comments, disarm gossip, in short cut off the gorgon's head at the first struggle.
They might term it unnatural, overdone, but at least it would not be to do again; and Harry
Jardine's was the temper, that, if you presented an obstacle to it, it itched the more to grapple
with the obstacle on the spot.

Precisely for the reason that she could not ride away from the party, after Mrs. Maxwell assailed
her with a motive for her conduct, Joanna could not repel his overture. It was incredibly trying
to her. He saw how differently she was affected from her sisters. He was aware of another influence.
He felt very uncomfortable. Why, the very flesh of his arm, which she touched lightly enough,
crept, when the superstition of the old ordeal of the bier flashed upon him, as he caught,
with a furtive glance, the tiny brand prickling and burning to fiery incandescence above the
waxen face. Was it a splash of his father's blood impressed there, till the "solid flesh" would
verily "melt"? Was it his neighbourhood which brought out the ruddy spot, that, like the scarlet
streaks down Lady Macbeth's little hands, would not wash off? Absurd folly! But he wished he
had done with it. He wished old ladies would confine themselves to their own concerns. He hoped
fainting was not heard of among the girls of the moors--that would be a talk! He supposed he
must say something commonplace and civil; he must task his brains for that purpose. He coined
a remark, and Joanna answered him quietly and with simplicity. She must have possessed and
exercised great self-command. It struck Harry Jardine. It was a quality he valued highly, possibly
because he felt such difficulty in looking it up on his own account. All through the few minutes'
further conversation and association between them, it impressed him, conjointly with the odd
recoiling sensations, which he had so rapidly shaken off, where her sisters were concerned.

Harry had the faults of his kind, not inveterately, for he spoke good English to women; but
as he indulged in his dear island slang to men, he felt bound to use it to himself. "This poor
little woman is thorough game," he said to himself. "I can see that she is as tender as a little
bird, yet she has shown as much pluck as a six-foot grenadier? She has not flinched at all.
I can do justice to this spirit." He remembered it all the time when Polly Musgrave was sounding
him, and when he did not choose to give her the slightest satisfaction.

"I saw you with my cousin Joanna, Mr. Jardine; you'll find her in the Spanish style."

"Not in complexion certainly. Do you mean in name?"

"Oh, no! Do you know so little about the south of Scotland after all? You had better conceal
this piece of ignorance. I am sure you understand this much--a general acquaintance with the
whole habitable globe would not atone for a deficiency with regard to this one dear little
spot of earth. Joanna is as common a name in the south of Scotland as Dorothy is in the north
of England. Examine the register, and see if you have not twenty Jardine cousins christened
Joanna. I call Joanna in the Spanish style, because, although she conceals it, and you cannot
have found it out yet, she is a vestige of romantic chivalry. Joanna is a Donna Quixotina,
an unworldly, unearthly sort of girl, with a dream of tilting with the world and succouring
the distressed. I term it a dream, because, of course, she will never accomplish it, any more
than the knight of La Mancha, and she will be obliged to descend from her stilts by-and-by.
I call Susan in the beautiful style, and Lilias in the good style, and Conny in the sweet sixteen
style."

"Miss Musgrave, I am not versed in ladies' styles, you must teach me;" and Polly and he looked
into each other's eyes, and laughed and felt they were match for match.

And Joanna had a little regret that Mr. Jardine should, like most men, be caught with Polly
Musgrave; not that Joanna did not admire Polly, though she was her antithesis, and count her
handsome and brilliant in her way, like any sun-loving dahlia or hollyhock; but Joanna had
no enthusiasm in her admiration of Polly, and she had a little enthusiasm in her estimation
of Harry Jardine.

III.--"HE LAY DOWN TO SLEEP ON THE MOORLAND SO DREARY."

Polly Musgrave was gone with flying colours. She had been indefatigable in procuring her aunt,
uncle, and cousins, parting gifts that would suit their tastes; she had actually toiled herself
in paying courtesy-calls round the neighbourhood; and she had written half-a-dozen letters,
and evinced a considerable amount of successful management in procuring an invitation for two
of her cousins to join her during the week or weeks of York's gaieties. She would have had
Joanna also, but Joanna would not leave home at the season when her father was liable to his
worst rheumatic twinges. Polly had shown herself really good-natured under her ease and luxury,
and Joanna had been a little penitent and vexed that she did not like Polly any more than in
a cousinly way. Whether Polly was right in saying that Joanna was romantic or not, Polly had
not a particle of romance in her constitution, though much was flourishing, fresh, and fragrant,
in pure, commonplace, selfish, good-natured worldliness, for it is a mistake to suppose that
quality (without hypocrisy) has not its attractive guise. Without knowing herself romantic,
Joanna was apt to quarrel in her own mind with cleverer girls, accomplished girls, pleasant
girls, even good girls, sensible women, business women, nay religious women, until she feared
she must be fault-finding, satirical, sour--as her sisters protested at intervals. Joanna,
sour? Joanna, so charitable and sympathizing? Take comfort, Joanna; the spirit is willing,
though the flesh is weak.

The Ewes was in its normal condition; the parish was in its normal condition; the excitement
of Harry Jardine's return to Whitethorn had died out; he might shoot, as it was September,
or fish still, or farm, or ride, or read as he pleased. He retained his popularity. His father
had been a popular man, fully more popular than Mr. Crawfurd of the Ewes. Harry was even more
approved, for mingling with the world had smoothed down in him the intolerance of temper which
beset his father. What did Joanna Crawfurd say to such compromising agreeability? Joanna was
disarmed in his case; she contradicted herself, as we all do. She had the penetration to perceive
that many externals went to raise Harry Jardine's price in the eyes of the world; externals
which had little to do with the individual man,--youth, a good presence, a fair patrimony,
freedom from appropriating ties. Strip Harry of these, render him middle-aged, time-worn or
care-worn, reduce him to poverty, marry him, furnish him with a clamorous circle of connections,
land-lock him with children! Would the difference not be startling? Would he need to be condemned
for the world's favour, then? Joanna trowed not.

The Crawfurds met Mr. Jardine occasionally, but there was no probability of the acquaintance
ripening, since Mr. Crawfurd could not call for Harry at Whitethorn, and Harry did not see
the necessity of offering his company at the Ewes. Mrs. Jardine had not visited much since
the shock of her widowhood, and she only now began to recur to her long-disused visiting-list
on Harry's account. Though a reasonable woman, it is scarcely requisite to say that she did
not propose to renew her friendship with the family at the Ewes. The blow which rendered her
without control did not break her spirit, but it pressed out its buoyance. Mrs. Jardine was
a grave, occupied, resigned woman, no longer a blithe one, very fond and proud of Harry, but
grateful, not glad in her fondness and pride.

The frost had come early, strong, and stern on those Highlands of the Lowlands, those moors
of the south. The "lustre deep" at twilight and dawn, the imperial Tyrian dye at noon, the
glorious "orange and purple and grey" at sunset and sunrise, which, once known and loved, man
never forgets, nor woman either--all would soon be swept away this year, and Joanna regretted
it. She liked the flower-garden, but, after all, the garden was tame to the moor. The moor's
seasons were, at best, short--short the golden flush of its June; short the red gleam of its
September. Not that the lowland Moor has not its dead, frosted grace in its winter winding-sheet,
and its tender spring charm, when curlews scream over it incessantly. But Joanna had never
seen the autumn so short as this year; and she had heard them tell, that in the Fall, when
poor Mr. Jardine was killed, the heather remained bright till November.

Thinking of that date caused Joanna, when she strolled out on the moor one morning, to go near
the scene with its melancholy celebrity.

It was quite early in the morning, a hail shower lying all around, though the sky was a deep
sapphire blue, with the wan ghost of the moon lingering on the horizon, and the atmosphere
bitter cold. The breakfast was late at the Ewes, owing to Mr. Crawfurd's delicate health, and
because Mrs. Crawfurd had her fancies like Mrs. Primrose. Thus Joanna was frequently abroad
before breakfast, and, like most persons of healthy organization, was rather tempted to court
the stinging air as it blew across the heather, bracing her whole frame, nipping her fingers
and toes, and sending blush-roses into her cheeks.

Joanna was walking along, feeling cheerful, although she was in that neighbourhood, and vaunting
to herself that their moor was infinitely superior to a park, when a grey object caught her
eye, lying beyond some whin bushes--a thing raised above the ground, but stretched still and
motionless. Joanna stopped with a strange thrill. No! it was not on that piece of earth; but
so must he have lain on that disastrous morning, far removed from the abundance, and garnered
goods, and heartiness of harvest.

Joanna stood a moment, then reproaching herself with cowardice, egotism, inhumanity, she advanced,
her heart fluttering wildly. Yes, it was a man in tweed-coat, trousers, and cap; and stay!
was that a gun by his side? Joanna could not go a step further; she closed her eyes to hide
the blood which she felt must be oozing and stealing along the ground, or else congealed among
the heather and it was only after she had told herself how far she was from home, and how long
it would be ere she could run back for assistance, that she opened them and approached the
figure. There was no blood that she could see; the man might not be dead, but stupefied or
insensible. Oh, dear! it was Harry Jardine of Whitethorn; the hail-drops among his black curls,
the sprigs of the heather dinted into his brown cheek.

It darted into Joanna's mind like inspiration how the chance had occurred. She remembered Susan
had said, yesterday, that she had met Mr. Jardine going in shooting garb across the moor in
the afternoon, and he had stopped her and asked if she had seen a dog. He had taken out a new
dog and lost it, and was vexed at wasting half the morning in the pursuit. She recalled, with
a peculiar vividness of perception, that somebody had observed, one day lately, that Mr. Jardine
was not so strong as he looked; that he had fever while abroad, just before he came home, and
that his mother was annoyed because he would not take care of himself, and complained that
he was constantly over-taxing his unrecovered powers, and subjecting himself to fresh attacks
of illness. Joanna remembered, with a pang, that she had laughed at the remark, mentally conjuring
up Harry Jardine's athletic, sunburnt comeliness.

Joanna freed herself more quickly from this phantom than from the last, and, while she did
so, called out his name, and stepped to his side, stooping down and even touching him. He was
breathing, though he was very cold and stiff, and she did not rouse him. Oh, Joanna was very
thankful! But what should she do next? Life must be very faint, and frozen in the muscular,
active young man. He had loitered at his sport till the dusk; he had been bewildered on the
moor--strange to him as to a foreigner; he had wandered here and there impatient and weary;
but still more angry with himself than alarmed. He had sat down in the intense chill and dim
darkness to recover himself; no way forewarned, "simply because he was on Corncockle Moor,
so near home," on a September night. He had sunk down further and further, until the stealthy
foe sprang upon him and held him fast--the sleep from which there is so tardy an awakening.

Joanna dared not leave the faint, vital spark to smoulder down or leap out. The moor was very
unfrequented at this hour; at certain periods of the day, portions of it, intersected by meandering
tracks, were crossed by men labouring in the adjacent fields or quarry; but till then it was
only the circumstance of alarm being excited on Harry's account, or her protracted absence
giving rise to surmise and search, that could bring them companions.

As a forlorn hope Joanna raised her voice and cried for assistance; fear and distress choked
the sound, and the freezing air caused it to fall on the silence with a ringing quaver. She
persevered, however, every now and then varying the appeal, "Papa, Lilias, Sandy, do some of
you come to me; I want you here, for God's sake! here."

She took his big hands and chafed them between her own little ones; she lifted his head on
her lap, her fingers getting entangled in his curly hair, she prayed for him that he might
be restored to them.

He continued to breathe dully and heavily; his eyes never unclosed; she felt tempted to raise
the lashes, as she would lift up and peep under the lids of a child. Ah! but she feared to
see the balls sightless and glazing over fast. The marked, lively face was placid as if it
were set in death, and the slight contraction between the brows, which she had remarked the
first night she saw him, was almost effaced. How dreadful it would be if he died on her knees
there, in the solitude of the moor! The son at the daughter's feet, as his father at her father's.
How would his mother bear it? Her father would never survive this mournful re-writing of the
old letters traced in blood. It should be she rather who should die; and Joanna in her piety,
her goodness, her great love for her father, her exquisite kindness for Harry Jardine, did
ask God if He sought a life, in His justice and mercy, to allow hers to pay for Harry's, to
substitute her in some way for Harry; and Joanna well remembered that prayer afterwards.

Joanna was beginning to cower and fail in her trial. Suddenly she shook herself up, when she
was lapsing into a heap nearly as passive as that beside her; a suggestion darted across her
brain; she detected in the little pocket of her dress a bottle of a strong essence and perfume,
which Polly Musgrave had forced upon her the day she left.

Joanna was quick and clear in following out a notion. With trembling fingers she poured the
hot, stimulating, subtle liquid into her hollow hands, and bathed his forehead. She unloosed
his cravat, and sent the warm stream over his throat and chest, rubbing them with her free
hand, while she supported his head on the other arm; and inspired with fresh courage and trust
she called anew this time a shrill, echoing call, and Harry Jardine shivered, sobbed, and stretched
himself, and slowly opened his sealed eyes, looking her first vaguely and then wonderingly
in the face, and her father's and Lilias's voices rose from opposite sides of the heath, near
and far in reply. "What is it, Joanna? What has kept you? What has happened? We missed you;
we were getting anxious; we are coming, coming!"

IV.--MERCY AND NOT SACRIFICE.

Harry Jardine was taken to the Ewes some hours before his mother, who had happily been deceived
as to his return on the previous night, was even apprised of his narrow escape. He received
the greatest kindness from the Crawfurds, and his mother herself found it incumbent on her
to write a little note to the Ewes, thanking the family for their humanity and benevolence
towards her son. It is possible, had Mrs. Jardine been awakened to her son's danger a little
sooner, and before its traces were entirely blotted out, the expressions in the note might
have been a few shades less general and cold.

Mr. Crawfurd excused her fully. He would not have expected Harry to come back to the Ewes,
though he rejoiced, from the bottom of his heart, that Joanna had served the young fellow.
How much his poor father would have been delighted in him? Mr. Crawfurd rejoiced, although
he was too righteous and humble-minded to say to himself that God was appeased, or that He
had permitted this atonement as a sign in answer to his life-long penance.

Harry Jardine represented a different theory; he would be a dolt, a brute, unpardonably vindictive,
if he did not cherish all friendly feelings to the Crawfurds; if he did not visit them openly
and frankly. He did visit at the Ewes, but he found the plainest opportunities ready made for
him during one fortnight at Hurlton, to come in contact with Joanna Crawfurd. She had gone
there to look after Conny, suborned by Mrs. Maxwell, and laid up with a sore throat, and forlorn
and wretched if one of her sisters was not looking after her.

This intercourse could scarcely fail to have one grand climax. Joanna, the thoughtful, imaginative,
true, tender woman--a fair woman besides, with that one little blot which singularly appealed
to him with a harsh sweet voice--a sufficiently rare woman, to stand quite distinct from her
sisters and companions in the light of the practical, active, ardent, honest heart--became
the one mistress in the world for Harry Jardine, coveted and craved by him as the best gift
of God, without which the others were comparatively worthless, and for which he could have
been willing to sacrifice them one and all. Harry himself, in after years, confessed that since
the moment he awakened from that leaden drowsiness on the moor, the image of Joanna Crawfurd,
tending him as a mother her sick child, was constantly before him.

Joanna had not precisely the same experience. From the moment that, with the prescience of
a woman where feelings are concerned, she saw the end, she avoided Harry Jardine with all her
power. Harry's generous determination and daring, his fearlessness, confidence, and steadfastness
overpowered her.

Mr. Crawfurd was dreadfully upset by Harry Jardine's application to him, his claim for forbearance,
his entreaty for grace, and his candid confession that his mother was violently opposed to
his suit. It was a case which could neither be considered nor rejected without remorse. Oh,
bitterness, which spread like an infection through so many years, and into such different relations,
and spoilt even the young man's fairness, good faith, free forgiveness, and the purity and
earnestness of his passion, the pearl of his manhood, which, if lost to him, would be a loss
indeed! How Harry implored Mr. Crawfurd to spare it to him, to reflect that it was the greatest
benefit which he asked at his hands, to pause before he denied it to him solely because he
had been the unfortunate means of depriving him of his father!

Harry had agitating scenes with his mother besides; these two had never been placed against
each other before, and the contest between them was neither gracious nor good for either heart.

"Harry, I am horrified at you; it is a dishonour to your poor father's memory; it is shocking
to think of it; and if you have been so lost to duty as to fall into so unnatural an entanglement,
it is surely the least you owe to both parents to give it up."

"Mother! I cannot see it as you do; my father fully exonerated Mr. Crawfurd--you have told
me so a hundred times. No one, not you, his widow, mourned my father as Mr. Crawfurd mourned--nay,
mourns him to this day."

"Harry, do you wish to see a bloody guest present at your wedding?"

"Mother, that is a baseless, cruel horror. You would not wish me to maintain a hereditary feud
on the principle of my forefathers. I cannot tell what the Christian religion teaches if it
does not enjoin forgiveness of injuries."

"I hope I am a Christian, Harry, and I have tried to forgive my enemies, but it is one thing
to make every allowance for them and entertain charitable feelings towards them, and another
to ally myself with them, and constitute them my closest friends. Harry, the whole neighbourhood
would shrink from the idea of what you contemplate."

"If my principles and my heart said Yes, not the neighbourhood, but the whole world might cry
No, and I would not feel bound to listen to the clamour."

"A young man's improper boast, Harry, and since you force me to it, not the world alone--I
tell you nature objects to that girl--that girl of them all; how can you look her in the face
and think of love?"

"Would you have me think of hate? Since you make the allusion, I declare to you, mother, that
mark appeals to you and me in another fashion. Cain's brand! do they call it? And who set the
brand, and when, on Cain's brow? Sovereign clemency, after the wanderer's punishment was more
than he could bear, if the reflection of my father's blood was transmitted to so innocent and
noble a proxy, it must have been designed to teach such as you and me New Testament lessons
of perfect charity."

"Harry, I have never been able to look that girl in the face."

"Mother, I pray never to forget that face, although it remain like an angel's face to me, because
it is the fairest example of the human face divine that I ever hope to behold."

"Harry Jardine, you are mad, or worse; these are some of the sickening French and German sentimentalities
against which I have been warned. There is such a thing as a wholesome sense of repulsion,
an honest manly recoil, a pure instinct of loathing, a thousand times to be preferred to this
morbid mixture of good and evil, friend and foe, life and death, this defiance of decency and
general opinion."

"Very true, mother; but there are a thousand exceptional cases, and a million points of ruthless
prejudice. 'An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth,' sounded very righteous and respectable
in the ears of the Jews, yet I believe the sentence had its condemnation, and the amendment
was neither French nor German."

"Harry, you are profane, and you forget what is due to yourself and me."

The last saying was a hard one; his mother could be no judge of his profanity, but he had been
a good son, and it had not been without a curb upon him that the strong man had accustomed
himself to leave so much of the power and authority of Whitethorn in the wilful woman's hands.

In the library at the Ewes Mr. Crawfurd was addressing Joanna very gently.

"My dear, I am very sorry it cannot be; of course Mrs. Jardine will never consent, but it goes
to my heart to grieve you."

"Papa, I cannot help it."

"And to grieve Harry Jardine."

"Papa, that is worse; but do not think that anybody--that he blames you."

"We shall trust, my dear, that he will soon recover the disappointment."

"Of course--it is not a great loss."

"My dear, pray don't smile when it hurts you, for I cannot bear it; it is natural that this
should be a heavy cross to you; but setting it aside as unavoidable, is there no respect in
which I can lighten it to you? No indulgence which you could fancy that I could procure for
you? No old wish of his Joan's that papa could by an effort gratify? Surely I cannot be so
miserable, child."

"Oh, no, papa! I mean you can please in a great many things; you always could, and you always
will. Women are not like men, their natures are not so concentrated. They have so many tastes
and whims, you know; I possess them by the score, and I will never cease to relish their fulfilment
so long as you and I keep labouring together, papa. I am not going to be a hypocrite, papa.
This strange story has vexed me a good deal, but I was aware from the first of its unsubstantial
character. I still want money to be charitable on my own account, like Lilias. I've a notion
to revive our old greenhouse; I've a longing to see a little of the world with you, sir, in
spring and summer; I've never been indifferent to silks and muslins, though I think my chief
weakness in dress is the very finest of fine chintz prints, ever so dear a yard, papa, which
an artist might paint, and more of a Duchess's wear than velvet. All these matters are acceptable
to me, papa."

"You are sure that you are my pet and darling."

"Yes, papa; you have spoilt me."

Joanna was gone to her own room; there she laid her head on her arm, and asked her heart bitterly,
"Have I succeeded in deceiving papa? Can he believe for a moment that any poor precious treasure
in the wide world will make up to me for the want of Harry Jardine; that there is anything
left me but Heaven instead of Harry Jardine? But then there is papa, dear papa, and I used
to be papa's. What will not women do for their children? I always thought I could attain as
much for papa. I was proud to prove my love to him, and I will drive out Harry's image for
papa's sake, though I should die in the struggle."

Harry did not altogether admire this resolution. He was a good fellow, an excellent fellow,
and he had the true, ineffable devotion to Joanna Crawfurd; but he was not free from jealousy
and irritation, as well as sorrow and fear, when he was compelled to part from her for a time,
and content himself with swearing fidelity on his own account, and seeing her occasionally
as an ordinary acquaintance, until their relative positions should be changed, or his truth fail.

The common world rolled on its course; the seasons succeeded each other, although even they
seemed to culminate in dull, monotonous vanity and vexation of spirit. The frosty wind had
swept "that lustre deep from glen and brae," and the chill watery mosses alone looked green
and fresh when the snow melted. It was the cold under which Joanna Crawfurd shivered and shrank;
at least so she assured every friendly person who remarked that she was thin, and paler than
ever. Mrs. Jardine had looked her in the face, nay, kept nervously glancing at her when she
was visible at church, on the loch where the curling match was played, or in the concert-room
at the county town.

Of course the girl would get over it; yet Joanna bore a suspicious likeness to Mrs. Jardine's
sister Anne, who did not "get over" such a cross. Mrs. Jardine remembered well her sister Anne's
parting look, and now, strive as she would, she could not resist the conviction that it was
hovering over Joanna Crawfurd's face. Mrs. Jardine, like the Laird of the Ewes, could have
cried, "Pray do not smile, girl; you do not know how you look; we, the initiated, have not
stony enough hearts to stand that." Mrs. Jardine was surprised that Harry could be so foolish
as to redden and appear displeased at Joanna Crawfurd's gaiety.

Mrs. Jardine almost complained against Providence that she was condemned to punish her only
child. Then she could not help speculating whether, if by some unimaginable arrangement of
events, she had been the sufferer, and Harry's father had been spared to him, he would have
denied Harry his happiness in the name of her memory, and from a sense of righteous animosity,
whether, if she could have looked down purified and peaceful from the spirit-world, she would
have desired the sacrifice, and whether she would not have pleaded against it for love and
mercy's sake?

The winter was gone, the early spring was at hand, and all around the outskirts of the moor,
like an incense to spring and the Lord of the spring, rose the smoke of the whin burnings which
were to clear the ground for the sweet young grass, to employ the nibbling teeth of hundreds
on hundreds of sheep and lambs. Joanna Crawfurd had never so sighed for spring, never sat in
such passive inertness (highly provocative to Lilias), receiving and realizing what it brought
to her.

But the period of listlessness and inaction, life-long to some, was nearly ended for this pair.
With the last snowdrops of the garden in February, and the first glinting gowans of the lea
in March, came the news to the country-side of the bankruptcy of one of the first of the chain
of banks, whose defalcations have accomplished more in causing property to change hands than
the lances of the moss-troopers. The young Laird of Whitethorn held money in the shape of his
father's shares in one of those unlucky banks; and so it fell upon him one morning like a clap
of thunder that he was responsible for about as much as the acres of Whitethorn would retrieve,
besides the trifling morsel to whet his appetite in the loss of his loose thousands. Harry
Jardine was likely to know himself as "landless, landless," as ever a proscribed Macgregor.

Harry rose to the encounter. "I am sorry for you, mother, and I do not pretend that I shall
not regret the old moorland acres; but I shall do very well, notwithstanding. I'm old to learn
a profession; but how many volunteers and retired lieutenants had to study and serve apprenticeships
after the long wars! I will stick in; I don't mind it on my own account, and I will be proud
to provide for you. I say, mother, don't vex yourself; perhaps it is the best thing that can
happen to me. I don't think a fellow gets well seasoned unless he is knocked about at some
time: better late than never. I have been coveting change--any change and occupation, an engrossing
occupation--for the last few months." He said that to reconcile her to what was an overwhelming
blow to her, and his words aroused her with a sharp pang. Had Harry become so miserable and
sick of his blessings that he was ready to welcome the cold-bath of labour and poverty as a
relief to his oppressive languor, and a ground of hope for his fainting mind?

But Harry came in to her with a troubled face, on another day--a mild day--a subtle, penetrating,
relaxing day, under whose balmy breath it is doubly difficult to contend with encircling difficulties,
and reject the one clue suddenly vouchsafed to lead us out of the labyrinth.

"I must tell you, mother, though, of course, it cannot be in the circumstances--he does not
see it--but there is no fatality to bind me to his views. Mr. Crawfurd of the Ewes sent for
me this morning, and I went to him immediately; I could not tell what he might have to say to me."

"Without consulting your mother, Harry?"

"Yes, mother," answered Harry, with unconscious sternness, "because it might have been my own
business, entirely my own affair, with which no mortal, not even you, can be entitled to interfere.
But it was only to offer and urge upon me a loan of money to enable me to satisfy the bank's
claims, if they come to the worst, and retain Whitethorn, paying him at my leisure. I assure
you that it was delicately done; my father's ghost may rest in peace. I beg your pardon, mother;
I did not mean to pain you. I am afraid I do speak queerly at times. Well, well; it was a kind,
confiding, neighbourly action, though I refused it decidedly, from the man whose alliance is
forbidden to us. I had no resource but to respect myself, as I respected him; and it is no
great matter that it hurt me to cut up that gentle, inoffensive old man, endeavouring to show
his rue for having proved, twenty years ago, what my father was to at least an equal degree,
and what I have no assurance that I would not have found myself, to a far greater extent than
either of them--a slave to a false code of honour."

Harry sat down, haggard, dispirited, half-desperate. His mother made no reply. All the rest
of the day she walked about the house like a restless spirit; half the night she paced up and
down her chamber softly, lest Harry should hear her, and come in again, and begin to caress
her; for she could not endure Harry's kisses now--they were like Joanna Crawfurd's smiles.

Was Harry quarrelling with his father's memory? It was a ghastly sacrilege to her; yet might
he not arrive at cursing in his heart, even while he was grasping the devil within him by the
throat? What had it not cost him? First, his young love and the cream of his happiness; and
now his paternal acres, and his position among the independent, influential gentlemen of his
native county. He might not value the last in his present fever and rashness, but he would
weigh it more justly hereafter. The moorland inheritance was not of great money purchase, but
it had descended to its possessors through long generations. It was hallowed by venerable associations.
The name and the property together were of some importance in this nook of the south. Harry's
father had a family affection for his place, and, doubtless, Harry entertained it also, undeveloped
as yet, but to grow and acquire full maturity one day, addressing him at every pensive interval
with a vain craving and yearning. And, again, in the confusion and distraction of Mrs. Jardine's
feelings, there was her sister Anne haunting her dreams, and reproaching her with having forgotten
her; and lastly, one verse in her well-worn Bible was constantly standing out before her aching
eyes in letters of fire, and shining into her rebellious but scared heart, "I will have mercy
and not sacrifice."

It is one thing to have been Christians all our lives, drawn along by a current, only broken
by comparatively trivial, every-day temptations, contests and sacrifices, and another thing
to wrestle with a decree that all at once confronts and contradicts a master-passion, a deeply-founded
verdict, a strongly-rooted opinion whose overthrow will shake the entire framework of our lives.

Mrs. Jardine descended the stairs the next morning very pale and exhausted, and for the first
time (though she was a widow by a peculiarly sorrowful visitation), with a certain wistful
air which Harry had observed in Mr. Crawfurd. It touched him--a fiery, dogged man--extremely,
in the one case as in the other. His mother, on the announcement of his loss, had insisted
on undertaking various domestic examinations with respect to general retrenchment; he had humoured
her, under the impression that it diverted her mind, and broke the force of what was a great
calamity to her. He believed that she had over-exerted herself, and he commenced to remonstrate
in the imperious, reproachful, affectionate tone, which the mother loves in her manly son.

"Yes, Harry, I have undertaken too much, and therefore I have requested the company of two
friends, who will be willing to lighten our burden."

"Strangers in the house at this time, mother?" exclaimed Harry, bewildered. "Well, if you can
bring yourself to suggest it, and wish it, I need have no objection. Never mind me, mother.
Besides, I shall be from home. Yes, I do believe it will be a good plan."

"I thought, Harry," said Mrs. Jardine, so tremulously that Harry felt quite alarmed for his
upright, obdurate mother, "as Mr. Crawfurd had been so friendly in his intentions towards you--the
only man who has come forward with such a proposal and entreaty--isn't he, Harry?--that two
of the Miss Crawfurds might consent to pay us a visit at last. I believe they would waive all
ceremony, and their father would like it. It would show that we were willing, at least, to
be reconciled in our evil day; that we appreciated their magnanimity; that we were not mean
as well as malicious, Harry."

Harry stared, "Mother," he said slowly, colouring violently, "are you prepared for the consequences
of inviting the Miss Crawfurds here, or what do you mean?"

"I have counted the cost, Harry; I have written and sent away a note, asking if Miss Joanna
and one of her sisters will have so much consideration for an old afflicted woman."

Harry burst away from her, that she might not read the glow which was in his eyes and searched
through his whole being.

Mrs. Jardine cried a little, as a woman might say, quietly and comfortably; a strange thing
for her, since she was one of those women who shed vehement tears or none at all; then she
dried her eyes and folded her hands reverently, saying, "I have a strange sense of calm and
of Divine favour this morning. I am sure I am not mystical, but one jogs along the beaten way,
and gets stupified, and doubts whether one can be a Christian or no, there is so little conviction
of the fact in what divines, from the Bible, call 'the inner man of the spirit;' but when we
conquer our wills, and obey one of His everlasting decrees, then we do feel that we must belong
to Him, and we have an assurance of His presence, which is a great enough reward without the
gratification of earthly afflictions. Ah! I have had dear old Annie's voice ringing in my ears
all the morning; and I have heard George Jardine bidding me take care of Harry, as he always
did before he went from home, except the last day when he dared not face me."

The Crawfurds came to Whitethorn. Mr. Crawfurd sent them at once; he would not listen to a
single objection or obstacle, though Lilias and Conny were with Polly Musgrave, and it was
inconvenient to spare the others on a moment's warning. Susan could not understand it--why
they should be bidden to Whitethorn now, when it had been so long debarred to them; but Susan
liked company, even company under a cloud; and she had a curiosity to inspect Whitethorn, into
which not one of them had put a foot, except papa and mamma, long ago. Joanna made no demur,
though, a month before, nothing would have induced her to believe that she would be staying
with Susie this March at Whitethorn. Mr. Crawfurd walked with his daughters to the great gate,
and Joanna, looking back, saw him, on his return, switching the thistle-heads in the hedge,
as she had never witnessed him attempt in her experience; she could almost fancy he was whistling,
as Harry Jardine went piping along before he fell in love with her.

It was a trial when Harry Jardine was introduced into the Crawfurds' company; but Mrs. Jardine
was very hospitable and kind, and Harry rapidly recovered or assumed his usual ease and animation,
and Susan soon lost all peculiar consciousness, and Joanna fell back on the woman's armour,
dinted, but not broken, of her self-control. In a few hours they did wonderfully well together.
Susan was delighted with the novelties of the old-fashioned country-house, and Harry was not
particularly downcast in his misfortunes; he was almost as amusing as ever, and invented fun
for her as if he had never heard the name of bank, and, finally, he did not complain of the
arrangement, of which Susan highly approved, that she should be Harry's companion, and Joanna
should belong to Mrs. Jardine. Joanna was so sedate, and, although she was not a business-woman
like Lilias (how Susan would boast of the ground she had gained when she wrote and amazed Lilias!)
she was used to associating with older people, and could suit herself to their ways and be
handy to them.

Harry smiled blandly on the partition for three whole days. At the close of the third day,
when Susan and Joanna were brushing their hair together, Susan started the proposal that they
should return to the Ewes whenever Mrs. Jardine's inventories, and settling and sorting of
accounts, were brought to an end; "because, Joanna, Harry is getting cross; I am sure of it;
he is not half so agreeable as he was the first night. I think he is angry because his mother
keeps you to herself, and sends me to talk to him and give him music. When I come to think
of it, it is a very senseless plan of hers, and perhaps she is spiteful though she is so attentive,
and I am not frightened at her any longer. She is a quick woman, but as pleasant as possible;
but if you please, Joanna, you can be shut up with her, and go out with her till we leave,
for I should not care for it very much, and I see no call for it on my part; and I am certain
we had better fix on going home again as soon as we can manage it."

"Very well, Susan; only you speak very fast; I can scarcely follow you. It strikes me you are
wrong on one point. I never noticed that Harry Jardine was tired of being your host, or that
he minded who sat next him."

"Not tired of me exactly, or careless of my enjoyment, because, to be sure, Harry Jardine is
courting all of us. Nonsense, Joanna, you need not affect to be sage and precise and unconcerned.
I am not so silly, and it is very conceited of you, and I have no patience with you. Of course
I was not blind and deaf, and I have not lost my memory. Harry Jardine is continually looking
after you, whatever his mother persuades herself. He never notices what I wear, and he remembered
ribbons you wore months since. I put on mine, and he looked at it and said, 'That is like one
of Joanna's; is it not?' Now I know very well he never calls any of us by our Christian names
to other people, and only you to one or other of us, and he does it pointedly, as if to express,
'I mean to be your brother-in-law one of these days, and I want to keep you in mind of my intentions,
so I take the liberty.'"

"Why don't you say, 'Mr. Jardine, Joanna does not like a liberty taken with her name'?"

"I dare say! and have him reply, 'Did Joanna tell me so herself?' I believe he would be only
too glad to have you speak to him on any subject, and I put him into such a fume about your
appearance, Jack! Of course, I intended no harm, the words came out somehow. You remember,
last night, his showing me an engraving he had bought. 'Tell me some one that is like,' he
said to me. It was the least in the world like you, or like your mode of dressing your hair,
but it flattered you, as these chance likenesses always do. 'Is it a little like Joanna?' I
asked trying him; and I continued, 'Our Joanna would be rather a pretty girl if it were not
for the blemish;' and there I stopped short, for I recollected that I should not have mentioned
it to him. I wish you had seen him, how hot and haughty he was, as if you were not my own sister,
and as if I had not more business with you than he had yet. 'I wonder how any one who has any
regard for Joanna can term that mark a defect: it is very sacred and beautiful, otherwise Joanna
is without spot'--and there he caught himself and turned away--he was about to add, 'or wrinkle
or any such thing,' and I am afraid it was a quotation from the Bible; but I fancy he felt
that he was making a fool of himself, and held his tongue. We ought to speak of going home."

"Susie, dear, don't be unreasonable; you know what a claim this family has upon ours; you know
what papa desires."

"I know nothing except that Harry Jardine wants me out of his way, and you in his way. It is
very disagreeable to me, and a great responsibility to me. You are an interested party, you
cannot be expected to see things as you should."

"Why not? I told you to correct him when he was wrong. But I thought you were great friends;
and poor Mrs. Jardine, Susan, I can be of use to her in her adversity. I can do things for
her as I do for--"

"As you do for papa; there is a fine confession!"

Joanna ensconced herself in silence. Susan had provocation, but Joanna took great care next
day not to support Harry Jardine in his levity and discontent. All the morning she spent with
Mrs. Jardine; she pinned herself to her sleeve until, after luncheon, she was taken by the
old lady into her own room, with its bright fire and shining dogs, its broad, easy couch, its
table, with the handsome ponderous writing-desk, flanking the handsome heavy dressing-case,
and its look-out from the warmly-curtained windows quite across the moor.

"What a comfortable room, Mrs. Jardine!" Joanna could not help exclaiming; "I never saw a more
fresh, inspiriting view to my taste, and such a stretch of sky,--you may sit and foretell all
weathers here."

"Yes, my dear, and I have foretold all weathers here. I'll talk to you a little of my nice
room, and why I am so sorry to think of leaving it."

"We hope you will not leave it," Joanna ventured, timidly.

"Ah! that rests with others now. But I came here a gay girl; I visited at Whitethorn before
my marriage, Joanna; I dwelt here a thoughtless, happy young wife; and here I kept Harry, not
quite so troublesome as now; and here I lay a heart-stricken widow while they were bringing
home the corpse of my husband, who had left me a vigorous, determined man two hours before."

"It must have been dreadful! dreadful!" murmured Joanna faintly; but lifting up her face to
Mrs. Jardine with the earnest confiding eyes, the blanched cheeks, and that seal on her brow--"Oh,
how often papa and I have thought of it, and pitied you and ourselves!"

"My dear, it was one of those dispensations of Providence which one never forgets to the end
of a long life. But I was a sinner, I deserved what I bore; we all deserve the sorest evil
that can afflict us; and, thank God, there is mercy mingled with the greatest misery. I do
not speak often of it, but I can do so to-day; and I find it is a relief to talk to you of
our misfortune, because you can sympathize with me; you were a sufferer in it like myself;
it cannot be to many other living persons what it is to us two. I have had that brought home
to me, my love. I do not grieve or frighten you, Joanna?"

"No, Mrs. Jardine, I have lamented it all my life. I am very grateful that you should let me
say that papa was very sorry; they sound very little words, Mrs. Jardine, but you understand
them, and papa will never cease to be sorry in this world, and we have only wanted to comfort you."

"Poor fellow!" sighed Mrs. Jardine absently. "Crawfurd of the Ewes, an accomplished, pleasant
fellow--so broken a man!"

They talked a little longer of the tragedy with composed but strong mutual interest and commiseration;
and Mrs. Jardine acknowledged that such pity was not like the world's pity, but was delicate
and tender as the ministry of any Barnabas or son of consolation; and when she finished, she
kissed Joanna on the forehead, and said to herself, "Harry was right. If this is the sign of
George Jardine's blood, it was placed there to pay her father's debt, and set her apart for us."

"Now, the sun is shining out, Joanna--'a clear shining after rain,'--don't you like the Bible
words?--I know you do. You must have a walk yet. Why, the violets will be out in another ten
days. Hand me my garden bonnet, and we will have a turn in the garden or shrubbery. I saw Harry
and your sister take the way there. My dear, you have the look of a sister I was very fond
of, and I think Mr. Jardine would have admired you. Yonder they are, Joanna. I should like
that you would send Miss Crawfurd to me, and have a stroll with Harry yourself. You will injure
your health, child, if you do not attend more to yourself. And, Joanna, if my son questions
you as to what I said to you, for he is a curious fellow, tell him I have been reading a text
for myself this morning, and for several mornings--'I will have mercy, and not sacrifice.'
And although I am an old woman, I have got it by heart. And bid him show you the thorn walk."

Joanna did not like to decline a commission of Mrs. Jardine's, but she could no more have asked
Harry to walk with her than if he had been a duke. However, Harry was loitering and watching
them, and came forward at this moment, and Mrs. Jardine herself appropriated Susan, and transferred
Joanna to Harry.

"I am very much obliged to you for your kindness to my mother," said Harry formally--no Joanna
this time, no name at all. "I never saw my mother take so much to any one," he continued eagerly;
"she is naturally a self-reliant, reserved woman; but she has opened up to you?"

"Yes," answered Joanna softly; "and do you know, she has been talking to me of the past."

Harry started. "What did she say, Joanna? She could not offend you. Pray what did she say to you?"

"She did not offend me--far from that--she was very good, and she gave me a message to you,
if you were inquisitive--she had been studying a text, 'I will have mercy, and not sacrifice.'"

"Ah! I am very happy to understand it."

"It seems easily understood; and she advised us to walk in the thorn walk. Is it near at hand?
Shall we have time?"

"We must take time, we cannot disappoint my mother. The thorn walk is a favourite with her
all the year round, although it is only in its beauty in the month of May. Shall I explain
to you why she has selected it to-day?"

"Yes, if you please."

"My father lived here, when he was a young man, with his uncle the laird. They had no near
female relative. It was a dull house, as dull an establishment as my mother and I maintain
together."

"Much duller, I should think."

"No; for before a certain time he was not sensible of its deficiency; he had no definite wishes
or hopes for an increase to their circle, a re-modelling of their housekeeping. My mother was
distantly related to him; she came on a visit to my grand-uncle with an elderly lady, who was
also a connexion; she was a lively young girl then. My father often told her afterwards to
what an incalculable degree her presence brightened the old house and the two forlorn gentlemen;
it would have been utter darkness if she had left them again to their old hazy sunlessness;
so my father took the desperate step of leading her to the thorn walk. It was the month of
May then, and it was covered with blossoms, sending a white shower on their bent heads from
a whole line of trysting trees; but, when I think of it, March, which is lightly esteemed,
is preferable to May, for March has all the promise of the year in prospect; and see, it has
cloth of gold and silver to step upon, in the shape of the bright, commonplace, unjustly overlooked
crocuses."

"You have been reading the seedsman's tallies, Mr. Jardine."

"Never mind; you agree with me?"

"The world and the poets choose May. And you begin to be eccentric and choose March."

"My father conducted my mother here; she has told me the circumstances a hundred times, though
she is a quiet woman; and she wore such a cloth gown as you wear to-day."

"Mr. Jardine, you are talking nonsense; this is a new stuff, I assure you it has not been half-a-dozen
months out of the looms; and do you suppose, sir, that I shall wear this dress in the month
of May?"

"That comes of confiding those details to men. I always thought it was a gown like this one;
and he asked her to abide at Whitethorn, and crown his lairdship and gladden and sweeten his
entire future career; and he succeeded at last in winning her consent. And this is the thorn
walk, Joanna, and I am free to re-enact the old passage in two lives, and plead with you not
to desert Whitethorn if we are to retain it. I am poorer by a few thousands since I first made
the same prayer to you; but your father puts no weight on the difference, or, in his rare generosity,
lets it tell in my favour; and I don't think we need break our hearts about our little loss,
if we look to our great gain. Here I beg you, as the humblest and most sincere of your petitioners,
to put your life into my life, and cause the united life to bud and blossom into the May of
the heart."

"And November and December would come to that year likewise."

"Yes, they will; but they will tread hard upon the real new-year, the veritable new year, that will

    "Ring out the false, ring in the true"

of this hoary world. Will you travel to it with me, Joanna? Shall we strive and pray, and help
each other to reach it together? Shall we begin it even here? Your father will bestow you solemnly
and gladly; my mother will accept you with a blessing."

Joanna said, "Yes; God bless us, Harry," reverently; and, reverently, God blessed them.

Harry was energetic, and Joanna was prudent, and old Mrs. Jardine was proud of the spirit with
which they saved the swamped estate of Whitethorn even from Mr. Crawfurd's bond; and having
helped themselves, they helped others, then and ever afterwards.

Polly Musgrave applied to them in time. Polly had written on Joanna Crawfurd's marriage a jeering,
jibing letter. "So you have gone and done as I prophesied, after all your wrath on the moor,
and preciseness at Hurlton. But, first, you were as silly as possible, and wanted to revive
the Middle Ages, which was quite in Don Quixote's tone; you to pine and die, and he to shoot
himself (as violent deaths are hereditary), or addict himself to loose living and destruction.
Then, when he loses his money, and in common sense you may both think better of it, shake hands
and go your several ways; you make all up, post haste, and come together with a flourish of
trumpets, and poverty will come in at the door, and love fly out at the window. Fie! I am ashamed
of you, after all!"

But Polly wrote in a different strain a year or two later:--"DEAR COUSIN JOANNA,--I am not
so healthy and heartless as I used to be, and I have been teased with a desire to come to Whitethorn,
and perhaps profit by your carriage in this world, as I never dreamt of once upon a time. But
I will say this for myself, I only wrote and crowed over you when you were quite able to afford
it. I was very glad of your happiness, child (as our grandmother wrote, and one of our grandmothers
was the same person! think of that, Harry Jardine!). Is Harry Jardine as promising as he used
to be before you took him in hand; or is the promise fulfilled in an upright, generous, gladsome
(and because of that last word you would insist on adding godly) man? He was a man of whom
to make a spoon or spoil a horn, and you were the woman to perform the delectable feat."

Polly had found her heart not a very lofty one, not a very sensitive one--but an honest and
kind heart in the main, which was permitted to extricate itself from the slough of luxury and
self-indulgence, and beat warmly and faithfully throughout the rest of its course.

ON THE STAGE AND OFF THE STAGE.

I.--THE "BEAR" AT BATH.

The Place was old Bath, in the days immediately succeeding those of Alexander Pope and William
Hogarth, and dovetailing into those of Horace Walpole and the Wesleys.

The Age was one of rackets and reaction from morning till night, and Bath was the head-quarters
of the first--the scene of the pump-room, the raffle, the public breakfast, the junketing at
mid-day, the ball at midnight, the play, the ridotto.

The Scene was a private room in the "Bear," when it was crowded with peers, bullies, rooks,
highwaymen, leaders of fashion, waiting-women, and stage stars. The "Bear" was held by great
Mrs. Price, a hostess large, shining, portly--a friendly great woman, too magnificent to be
fussy, or mean, or spiteful. The "Bear" looked out on the Parade, with its throngs of beaux--veritable
beaux, with Beau Nash at their head--wigged, caned, and snuff-boxed, and belles with trains
borne by black boys, cambric caps and aprons, and abundance of velvet patches. In and out of
its yawning doorway strutted fine gentlemen, chaplains, and wits, while grooms, public and
private, swarmed round the house. Its broad stairs and low wide corridors, traversed by the
more private company, led to sitting rooms of all degrees, panelled with oak or lined with
cedar, with worked worsted wonders in the shape of chairs, and China monsters by way of ornaments.

The Person was a handsome woman, attired negligently in what was called a sacque, with a mob-cap.
She sat sipping a dish of tea, as sober women will after fatigue or in anticipation of exertion,
and making occasional reference to some shabby, well-worn volumes and printed sheets piled
up beside her. Her attitude was studious, for days when a chapter of the Bible, a cookery recipe,
a paper by Addison or Dick Steele, or a copy of verses, included all the knowledge after which
the gentler sex aspired; her retirement was remarkable at that gay era, and in that gadding
neighbourhood; and her morning dress, though it would not have offended a Tabitha Tidy, looked
plain among the silvered mazarines and the tippets of pheasants' tails.

She was a woman of about five-and-twenty; but her beauty, though still in its prime, showed
the wear and tear of years. Had it not been that its chief power lay in the intellect and goodness
which sat on the capacious but not cloudy brow, and gleamed out of the cordial dark blue eyes,
and hovered round the somewhat wide and somewhat lined but never sensual mouth--you would have
said this was a faded queen whom the world was mad to worship. As it was, she did look faded
this spring afternoon, and occasionally fretted audibly enough as she turned over the leaves
of her volumes, and sighed "heigho!" as she looked at her repeater--not quite so common an
appendage as the little Geneva story-tellers, though a footpad carried always a goodly supply,
and a gentleman's gentleman of very fine prestige would wear a couple, "one in each fob"--and
sipped her tea; which, by the way, she drank, not out of one of the diminutive China cups,
but out of an old battered, but very shining little silver tankard.

Anon my lady rose and strolled to a back window. She looked across the noisy, crowded stable-yard
into the corner of a garden, where a lilac bush was budding into dusty dim purple and a hoary
apple-tree blossomed white and pink like a blushing child, away over the green fields to a
farmhouse upon a hill, where russet and yellow stacks proved the farmer's command of ready
money, or caution in selling. From just such another farmhouse as that on which our bright
benevolent woman--even in the dumps--was gazing wistfully, issued Caroline Inchbald, a beauty,
and a generous, virtuous woman under great temptations, a friend and rival on equal terms with
Amelia Opie.

But hark! an arrival in the next room: fresh guests--country people of consequence, for they
were ushered in by Mrs. Price herself, who received in person their orders for an incongruous
meal, neither dinner nor supper, to recruit them for some gala in which they had the prospect
of figuring, to judge from a torrent of exclamations which pierced through a convenient cupboard
in the partition.

"Make haste, girls," in bass tones.

"Eat away, Fiddy," in treble, mimicking the bass.

"Uncle, don't attempt the game-pie. We'll be too late, as sure as our heads. Didn't you hear
Mrs. Price say there was a power of company wanting seats; it would be too bad if we lost the
sight after all."

"What, Prissy, worse than Admiral Byng's defeat, or my spoilt medal?"

"Oh! Uncle Rowland, how can you joke! Now, Fiddy, there's a dear creature, don't have anything
to say to the cream-tart. What although we're as hungry as hawks, if we only get a good view
to talk about at the Vicarage and Larks' Hall."

"There--Prissy, dear, then I've done. I'll just run and shake our myrtle crapes and fresh pinch
our stomachers."

"Hold! no such thing, lasses. I'm not to be left here to feed in solitude, and without e'er
a portfolio or picture. You little geese, it is two good hours to the exhibition. Are you to
be frizzing, and painting, and lacing, and mincing, and capering for two mortal hours, and
your poor country uncle left to spoil his digestion for want of something else to do than eat?
Is that your gratitude, when here have I come against my will to introduce you to the wicked,
gay world, and spoil your Arcadian simplicity? Don't make faces, Prissy!"

"Oh! Uncle Rowland; you are making base pretences."

"Indeed, sir, I think you are as wild to see the wonders as we are."

But the remonstrance had its effect, for the young ladies evidently sat down again, and, by
the clatter of knives and forks, one could judge they condescended to do some justice to the
good things provided for their solace, while the conversation went on in more regular order.

The lady in the Nankin sitting-room had decidedly the advantage in this situation, as she did
not soliloquize in private, and she heard through the cupboard and the locked door of communication
the chat of her neighbours. They spoke no treason, and they ought to be more prudent if they
told secrets: it was a real benefit to a lonely wight, a little irritated in nerve and temper,
to be a party to their lively, affectionate, simple intercourse; and, as the truth must be
told, the lady in the Nankin sitting-room crossed her hands with a motion of indolent interest
and turned her head with an air of listless pleasure, nodding and beating her foot lightly
on the floor now and then, in interjection and commentary. She could figure the group perfectly.
Two rosy little girls brought into the town for a day and a night's shopping and gadding, as
they would call it, under the escort of an indulgent uncle: a bachelor probably, else madam,
his wife, would have been there to keep them in order; and not so very elderly, for the good
man was of what is styled a sprightly turn, and though his nieces submitted to his authority,
there was a decidedly modified amount of reverence in the way in which they insisted,

"You must comb out your curls, Uncle Rowland."

"And I'll tie your cravat for you, sir, and make you quite smart. We are not to appear abroad
with a country bumpkin or a fright of a student, are we, Prissy?"

And mutual jokes were bandied pretty freely.

"Now, Prissy, are we to see the famous Traveller?"

"No, sir, it is to be the Virtuoso, with the mock copper coins."

"Bronze, child, bronze."

"We're to have nobody in particular, only Lady Betty," chimed in the more girlish voice. "The
company, the other gentlefolks, will be quite sufficient besides."

"And Fiddy will scream when the blunderbusses are fired. Shall we take the precaution of putting
cotton in her ears beforehand?" derided the man.

Then the single lady fixed further, that Prissy (Mistress Priscilla, doubtless, in company
down in Somersetshire) was the cleverest and most forward, and that Fiddy (Mistress Fidelia)
was the shyest and, perhaps, the prettiest, for she was clearly Uncle Rowland's favourite.
But then, for all her rosy cheeks, poor child! she was delicate, since there was a constant
cry from the conductor of the party, "Fiddy, you vain doll, remember your mantle; Madam is
not here to wrap you up, nor Granny."

"Oh, sir! we've lots of scarfs and shawls, all for Fiddy; and she is to tie on her Iris hood
against the draughts."

"What! one of the poppies and bluebells that Will Honeycomb admired? She'll beat you, Prissy,
out and out. I would sicken and bear her company."

"I wonder to hear you, sir. I can tell you, Granny would not coddle me so. Granny is always
preaching of hardening weakness."

"Ah, the old mother is no milksop!"

There, was she not right? Had she not full hints of the history of the Vicarage and madam its
mistress, the mother of these two little girls; and of the parish priest her husband, their
father--the younger brother of the tolerably educated squire yonder, with his Larks' Hall;
and of Granny, who kept house there still for her elder son, where she had once reigned queen
paramount in the hearty days of her homely goodman. It was a scroll fairly unfolded, and perfectly
legible to the experienced woman.

"Uncle Rowland," prefaced the soft voice, more quietly, "do you really think the gay world
of the town so much more vicious than the sober world of the country?"

"Why, no, my dear," answered the manly voice, now graver, and with a little sadness in its
ring, "ignorance is not innocence, and depravity is vastly more general than any mode. Nevertheless,
there are customs of which I would greatly prefer Prissy and Fiddy to remain unaware, like
their mother before them."

"But Granny lived in the great world, and there is not one of us like Granny."

"The risk is too great, child; the fire is wondrous strong, though the pure gold be sometimes
refined in the process--as your father would preach."

"And, sir, this Mistress Lumley, or Lady Betty, as they called her downstairs, is as virtuous
as she is clever."

"You may depend upon that, Miss, or you had not come to Bath to see her play. They term the
poor soul Lady Betty because she has turned on her heel from the worthless London sparks, and
taught them to keep their distance."

"Uncle Rowland, I don't think you heartily sympathize with charming Lady Betty."

"Tut! child, I have not seen her. You would not have me captivated ere I ever set eyes on my
enslaver? But, to speak honestly, little Fiddy, I own I have no great leaning to actresses
and authoresses. There are perils enough in a woman's natural course, without her challenging
the extremes of a fictitious career. More than that, Fiddy, I have not much faith in the passion
that is ranted to the public; even if it were always a creditable passion. Those who are sorely
hurt don't bawl, child: deep streams are still."

"I will play to him," the lady of the Nankin sitting-room says to herself, her lips parting
with a slight smile, and her colour rising at the same time. Your true woman is easily pained,
and, the more fully furnished, the more finely skilled, she is all the more susceptible to
blame as to praise, and so on that account the less qualified for public life. There was many
a strong enough argument against the stage and the desk which Master Rowland might have used
instead of his weak one.

Lady Betty, in that bubbling, frothing, steaming London--Mistress Lumley in the provinces--was
a young actress of great repute and good character, who had compelled success, like Mrs. Siddons
after her, and reigned for several seasons, and still her fame was paramount and her respectability
unquestioned. In those very dissipated days of Queen Anne and the early Georges, the broad
prejudices which darken the stage were light in tint and slender in force. The great world
was tumultuous, giddy, reckless, with innumerable victims falling suddenly into its yawning
chasms, like the figures from the bridge in Mirza's vision; and the theatre was not a more
exposed sphere than many another, and that made all the difference in the world. Very few save
the strictest Methodists condemned it, when Henry Brooke wrote for it, and Dr. Johnson stood
with his hands behind his back in the green room.

Mrs. Betty Lumley, tall, comely, high-principled, warm-hearted, and ingenuous, was come of
yeomen ancestors. She did not see a play in a barn and run away after the drama, like Caroline
Inchbald; but on the death of her father and mother, she went up with an elder sister and young
brother to London to seek for an employment and a livelihood. Encountering some person of dramatic
pursuits--manager, stage-painter, ticket-taker, or the like, or the wife of one or other--she
was recommended to the stage. She was supported in the idea by all her connections, for then
no one questioned the perfect respectability of the profession. She studied hard in new, though
not uncongenial fields; she ventured; she tried again and again, with the "modest but indomitable
pluck" of genius, and she at last won a position and a prospect of independence. In all this
nobody blamed her; on the contrary, the magnates of the hour--kings, councillors, bishops--awarded
her great credit for her parts, her industry, her integrity, her honour.

Not a lady of quality in London was more respected and admired, rightly or wrongly, than Mistress
Betty. At the same time it is possible that, having reached the goal, could she have turned
back and begun her walk anew, she would have hesitated before following this thorny path. It
was a thorny path, for all its applause and success; nay, on account of them; even with a good
woman like Mistress Betty it required all her sincerity, her sobriety, and, according to the
prevailing standard, her religion, to deliver her from imminent danger. Moreover, with the
attainment of the object, had come the bitter drops which qualified the cup. Her plain, fond,
innocent sister was in her grave; and so within the two last years was the young brother, for
whom her interest had procured a post of some importance in the Colonies, whence he bequeathed
to Mistress Betty, his dear distinguished sister, his little savings. She struggled to be resigned,
and was not only weary, but tempted to grasp at material rewards. This was the turning-point
of her life. She would be virtuous to the last. Her honest, clear character revolted at vice;
but she might harden, grow greedy of power, become imperious and arrogant. For, remember, I
do not say that Mistress Betty had contracted no contamination. No, no; she had suffered from
her selfish fits, her vain fits, her malicious fits--she had experienced her hours of boldness
and levity--she had made her own way to eminence--she had struggled with unscrupulous rivals--she
had heard much which we would have wished her not to have heard--she had been a member of that
wild, ultra-fine, coarse, scandalous society: but as we find saints in strange company sometimes,
so the cordial, faithful, generous woman remained with only a slight coating of affectation
and worldliness, thirst for praise, desire after excitement, habit of command.

"I'll play to this horrid country Justice," whispers Mistress Betty, quite roused, and looking
animated and brilliant already. "I hear by the gentleness of his voice, when he speaks of the
sins and sorrows of mankind, and when he addresses his little girl, that the fellow has a heart;
but he gave me no quarter, and he shall receive none in return. I'll conquer him. To come within
sight and sound of the boards with his muddy boots and his snarls, spoiling the enjoyment of
the lasses!"

Very true, Mistress Betty, it was neither very wise nor very gallant; but you ought to remember
that the most loyal prejudices are sometimes as loyally abandoned.

II.--LADY BETTY ON THE STAGE.

The principal theatre of the queen of watering-places in her palmy days was filling fast, as
it had done for the last two nights. Other attractions lost their power. Ombre, basset, hazard,
lansquenet, loo, spread their cards and counters in vain for crafty or foolhardy fingers. The
master of the ceremonies found his services at a discount; no troops of maidens, no hosts of
squires, answered to his appeal; no double sets were forming to the inspiring strains of "Nancy
Dawson." The worthy, charming, gifted Lady Betty had come down for three nights to improve,
entertain, and enrapture, and this being her last night the theatre constituted the only orbit
in which the planets would revolve.

The world was here in full-blown variety; sublime, languid peers, needy placemen, hilarious
foxhunters, brave tradesmen, aspiring mechanics, poor good-for-nothings; sober housewives,
whose thoughts were still of their husbands' shirt-fronts and their hasty-puddings, and who
never dreamt that they were impugning their sobriety by attending a play; and above all, fine
ladies armed with their fans and their essences. As a whole, the audience was in a vastly respectful
attitude--the gentlemen tapping their snuff-boxes meditatively, and desisting in a great measure
from their loud laughter, their bets, their cursing and swearing; the ladies only whispering
behind their handkerchiefs, and moving to cause their diamonds to sparkle, all in acknowledgment
of the vicinity of the fair and potent Lady Betty.

The play was Venice Preserved, and Lady Betty entered in an early scene. Truly a fine woman--not
so lovely as Anne Oldfield, not so superb as Sarah Siddons; but with a frank, fair, womanly
presence--bright, genial, quick, passionate through the distress of Belvidera, the repudiated
daughter and beggared wife.

Dressed in the English fashion under the Georges, walked the maiden reared in the air blowing
off the lagoons within the shadow of the grim lion of St. Mark, to such sentimental accompaniments
as the dipping oar and the gondolier, and finished off with the peculiar whims of Betty Lumley.
She wore a fair, flowered brocade, for which William Hogarth might have designed the pattern
and afterwards prosecuted for payment the unconscionable weaver; a snow-white lace kerchief
was crossed over her bosom and reached even to her shapely chin, where it met the little black
velvet collar with its pearl sprig; her brown hair (which had shown rather thin, rolled up
beneath her mob-cap) was shaken out and gathered in rich bows with other pearl sprigs on the
top of her head; her cheeks showed slightly hollow, but were so fresh, so modest, so cool in
their unpainted paleness, and on the smallest provocation acquired the purest sea-shell pink
which it would have been a sin and a shame to eclipse with staring paint; the contour, a little
sharper than it had once been, was only rendered more delicate by the defect, and so sweet
yet--so very sweet; her beautiful arms were bare to the elbow, but shaded with falls of cobweb
lace; and in one hand, poised daintily between two fingers, she held a natural flower, a bunch
of common rural cowslips. At this period of the year such an appendage under any other touch
would have been formal as the Miss Flamborough's oranges, but it was graceful in this woman's
slight clasp.

"Enchanting creature!" "Fine woman!" "Otway's devoted wife to the life!" murmured the company,
in a flutter of genuine admiration--forgetting themselves, these Sir Plumes and Belindas, once
in a way.

"I do hope the poor soul will not be deserted and undone--she's so easy to serve--and all Bath,
and, for that matter, Lon'on too, as I believe, at her feet!" says Mrs. Price, emphatically,
to young Medlicot, whom she is patronizing for one night, because he knows somewhat of plays
and players; and who, in spite of his allegiance to swimming, simpering Clarissa, would give
a fortune to paint that pose. Belvidera need fear no lolling, no sneering, no snapping at her
little peculiarities this night.

As she came on, "kind, good, and tender," telling poor distracted, misguided Jaffier, in his
humiliation, that she joyed more in him than did his mother, Lady Betty darted a sharp, searching
glance through the boxes. Ah! yonder they were! The little girls the parson's daughters, with
their uncle the squire, fault-finding, but honourable. Two round-faced, eager, happy girls,
intent upon the play, and the great London star, beautiful, bewitching Lady Betty, who is now
looking at them--yes, actually staring them full in the face with her deep, melting, blue eyes,
while she reassures her cowardly husband. How dared uncle Rowland disparage her?

There was uncle Rowland, younger than Lady Betty had taken him for--not more than five-and-forty--his
coat trimmed with silver lace, a little old-fashioned, and even a little shabby in such company,
his Mechlin tie rather out of date and already disordered, and his cocked-hat crushed below
his arm. His face is bluff and ruddy among his pinched and sallow brethren: that of a big English
gentleman, who hunted, shot, or fished, or walked after his whistling ploughman every morning,
and on occasions daringly dashed in amongst the poachers by the palings of his park or paddock
on summer evenings; yet whose hands were reasonably white and flexible, as if they handled
other things than guns and fishing-rods, and whose eyes, at once clear and meditative, had
studied more than the spire of his brother's church and the village street, more than quiet
country towns, and loud watering-places, and deep metropolises.

Master Rowland had no family ties beyond the Vicarage; and was in no hurry to marry or settle,
as the phrase went; though he was settled long ago, and might have married once a year without
any impediment from old madam, as Mistress Betty would have been swift to suppose. He perfectly
approved of Mr. Spectator's standard of virtue--"Miss Liddy can dance a jig, raise a pasty,
write a good hand, keep an account, give a reasonable answer, and do as she is bid;" but then,
it only made him yawn. The man was sinking down into an active-bodied, half-learned, half-facetious
bachelor. He was mentally cropping dry and solid food contentedly, and, at the same time, he
was a bit of a humourist. He loved his little Prissy and Fiddy, as dear god-daughters, whom
he had spoilt as children, and whom he was determined to present with portions when he presided
at their wedding dinners; but he had no mind to take any of their fellows, for better for worse,
as his companion, till death did them part.

Then Lady Betty stepped upon the stage at Bath, and before a multitude of frivolous and simple,
or gross and depraved spectators, incapable of comprehending her, she played to the manly,
modestly intellectual squire.

Master Rowland woke up, looked his fill, as open-mouthed as the rest, and while he did so,
his system received a shock. Lady Betty was revenged to an extent she had not foreseen.

The noble woman went with her whole soul into the sorrows of the dark-eyed, brown-faced sister
whom Titian might have painted, and made them accord with her fair English love of justice,
her blue-eyed devotion to her husband, her Saxon fearlessness and faith in the hour of danger:
only she did look strange and foreign when, in place of lying prostrate in submission and rising
in chaste, meek patience to rear her orphan son, she writhed, like a Constance in agony, and
died more speedily from her despair than Jaffier by the dagger which on the scaffold freed
Pierre. The assembly rose in whole rows, and sobbed and swooned. Mrs. Prissy and Mrs. Fiddy
cried in delicious abandonment; Master Rowland sat motionless.

"I declare I had forgotten the Justice," reflects Lady Betty, resting behind the scenes. "I
do believe I am that poor Belvidera for the last half-hour. I meant to bring the man to tears.
His blooming face was as white as a sheet;--poor, dear, good man, I hope he's none the worse
of it."

Master Rowland knows full well that she is Mistress Betty Lumley the great London actress,
not Belvidera the Venetian senator's daughter; but he will never again turn from the chill
of his stone-arched hall, where his fingers have grown benumbed riveting a piece of armour
or copying an epitaph or an epigram, or linger under his mighty oak-tree, or advise with his
poor tenants, or worship in church, without the sickening sense of a dull blank in his heart
and home.

III.--MISTRESS BETTY BECOMES NURSE.

Bath was sleeping as soundly as if it had been a quaker town: any sounds of riot were scattered
and subdued. The dowager did not count her gains as she clutched them, while borne along the
street by the glare of the dropping flambeaux. Her son, who, like the young Duke of Marlborough
and his brother peer, carried no meaner change than golden guineas, did not clink them as he
tossed them to the chairmen fighting for the prize. The "Bear" was reasonably still for a great
public-house with twos and threes of travellers departing at all hours, as waiters and ostlers
stirred on their behalf, horses trotted out from adjoining stables, and circles of chariots
suffered displacement--all in addition to the distinct and fervent sensation of the night coach.

Suddenly a noise and a flurry arose in the grey light and its general repose. Accents of terror
and anxiety are heard, and a movement of pity and distress arises and grows in the establishment.
A young girl is attacked by violent illness--a life in its spring-time is threatened with sudden
extinction; friends at hand are seeking remedies and bewailing the calamity--friends at a distance,
all unconscious, are mentioned with subdued voices and averted eyes.

Mrs. Price was wiping her eyes and carrying up restoratives with her own hands. "'Twas Mistress
Fiddy, whom she had known from a child; the niece of Master Rowland, who had always supported
the house; and madam, her mother, away at the Vicarage, and the dear child, so good and quiet."

"I will come, my good Mrs. Price. My sister had these fainting fits; I'm used to them. I'll
revive the child: the poor child, I am sure she'll not be offended at the liberty. Pooh! I
can sit up as well as sleep after playing. Dear! dear! Many a night I was happy to sit up with
Deb," pleaded an urgent, benevolent voice, waxing plaintive towards the conclusion of the speech.

"Indeed you are too gracious, my lady--I mean madam," protested the perplexed, overwhelmed
Mrs. Price; "but I dare not venture without Master Rowland's consent: he will do everything
himself, issue his orders even, although Dr. Fulford's been upstairs lending his advice these
ten minutes."

"A fudge for doctors when there's a helpful woman at hand, Mrs. Price? Convey my message to
the squire; inform him that I've had experience--mind, experience--and am a full-grown, reasonable
woman, and not a fine lady. I know the poor little sister will be shaking like a leaf, and
frightening the darling; and you are stiff in the joints yourself, Mrs. Price, and a little
overcome. I'm just the person, so let me in!"

Master Rowland, without his coat (for though he had an orderly turn of his own, he was not
a methodical enough man to travel with a gown and slippers in his valise), was labouring to
recover his niece; Mistress Prissy, with her cloak huddled round her, was making magnanimous
efforts to aid her uncle; while the poor little sufferer--guileless, affectionate Mistress
Fiddy--lay pale, faint, and chill, with life flickering beneath her half-closed eyelids and
in the gushes of her fitful breath. Master Rowland's trouble rendered him outwardly cold and
hard, as it does some men; yet Mistress Fiddy's closing eyes turned trustfully to him, and
her weak fingers clung tightly to his strong hand.

"No, no; the fewer onlookers the better. What would a stranger do here, Mrs. Price?" he inquired
angrily, remembering, with a pang, that certain new, unaccountable, engrossing emotions had
quite banished Fiddy from his thoughts and notice, when he might have detected the signs of
approaching illness, met them and vanquished them before their climax.

"Bid him speak a word with me, Mrs. Price, a gentleman cannot refuse. I have reasons which
will excuse my importunity," reiterated that sympathetic voice.

He walked out doggedly, and never once lifted his eyes. "Madam, I am your servant; but we do
not need your help: my niece would be scared by the presence of a stranger. Reserve your charity----"
"for the poor" he was about to add; but she put her frank hand upon his arm, and said, "Your
worship, I believe I could nurse the young lady better than anybody: I have seen my dear sister
afflicted, as I judge similarly. Do not stand on ceremony, sir, and deprive a poor girl of
a benefit which Providence has sent her, if you would not regret it. I beg your pardon, but
do let me succour her."

He looked up. There she stood in her white wrapping-gown and cap, ready prepared for her patient;
so appropriate-looking in dress and face, with her broad forehead full of thought, and her
cheek flushed with feeling; an able tender woman in her prime, endeavouring to do Christian
offices, longing to pour balm into gaping, smarting wounds, imploring to be allowed to fulfil
her mission. He bowed, and stood aside; she curtsied, and passed in. He heard her voice the
next moment, low, but perfectly audible, cheerful and pleasant, addressing Mistress Prissy.
"My dear madam, your uncle has permitted me to count myself a mature friend, like madam your
mother; and after this introduction you will excuse me for taking care of you. Doctor, what
drops do you favour? You have them there; if you please, I'll offer them: I've administered
them before." She spoke to the doctor very courteously; perhaps remarking that he was young
and somewhat agitated. "Mayn't I chafe Mistress Fiddy's hands, doctor? You're better, my dear?"

Mistress Fiddy's head was on her arm; her eyes were raised to her nurse's face wonderingly
but complacently, and, though quite conscious, Mistress Fiddy involuntarily sighed out "mother."
Very motherly was the elder woman's assurance: "Yes, my dear, I'll serve as madam your mother
in her absence, till madam herself comes; and she'll laugh at our confusion and clumsiness,
I warrant."

Mistress Fiddy smiled a little smile herself. Nature was reacting in its own redemption; the
necessary stimulus was obtained, and the little lass was in a fair way of recovery.

But Mistress Betty did not leave off her cares; she elected herself mistress of the sick room--for
she reigned there as everywhere else. She dismissed shivering, tearful, grateful Prissy with
a hug, and a whispered promise that her dear sister Fiddy would be as lively as a grig in the
morning; got rid of the doctor and Mrs. Price, and all but routed Master Rowland, succeeding
in driving him as far as the next room.

How light her foot was--light as her fingers were nimble; how cleverly she shaded the sick
girl from the light, without depriving her of air! How resigned Fiddy was to be consigned to
her! how quickly and entirely the child had confided in her; she had hailed her as another
mother! Mistress Betty was putting the chamber to rights, in defiance of all the chamber-maids
of the "Bear;" she was concocting some refreshing drink, for which Mrs. Price had supplied
the materials, over the fire, which she had ordered in case of mould and damp, even in the
well-seasoned "Bear." Once she began to sing softly what might have been a cradle-song, but
stopped short, as if fearing to disturb Fiddy, and composed herself to perfect stillness. Then
Master Rowland heard Mistress Fiddy question Mistress Betty in her weak, timid voice, on Fiddy's
own concerns. "You said you had seen these fits before, madam? May I be so bold as to ask,
did the sufferer recover?"

There was a moment's silence. "It was my sister, Fiddy: she was much older than I. She had
a complication of diseases, besides being liable to swoons all her life. My dear, she died,
as we must all die when our time comes; and may we all be as well prepared as was Deb! In the
meantime we are in God's hands. I have been taken with fainting fits myself, Fiddy, ere now.
I think they are in my constitution, but they are not called out yet, and I believe they will
be kept under; as, I fully trust, country air, and exercise, and early hours, will conquer yours."

"And you will take great care of yourself, and go into the country sometimes, dear Mistress
Betty," pleaded the girl fondly, forgetting herself.

Mistress Betty laughed, and turned the conversation, and finally read her patient to sleep
with the Morning Lesson, given softly and reverently, as good Bishop Ken himself might have
done it.

The poor squire was a discomfited, disordered Sir Roger. He could not cope with this fine woman;
and then it came home to him imperatively that he was precisely in that haggard, unbecoming
state of looks and costume significantly expressed in those days by the powder being out of
a man's hair and his frills rumpled. So he absented himself for an hour, and returned freshened
by a plunge in the river and a puff in his wig. But, alas! he found that Mistress Betty, without
quitting Mistress Fiddy's bedchamber, and by the mere sleight of hand of tying on a worked
apron with vine clusters and leaves and tendrils all in purple and green floss silks, pinning
a pink bow under her mob-cap, and sticking in her bosom a bunch of dewy ponceau polyanthuses,
had beat him most completely.

Mistress Fiddy was, as Mistress Betty had predicted, so far re-established that she could breakfast
with the party and talk of riding home later in the day; though wan yet, like one of those
roses with a faint colour and a fleeting odour in their earliest bud. And Mistress Betty breakfasted
with the Parnells, and was such company as the little girls had never encountered before; nor,
for that matter, their uncle before them, though he kept his discovery a profound secret. It
was not so pleasant in one sense, and yet in another it made him feel like a king.

This was Mistress Betty's last day in Bath, and she was to travel up to Town in the train of
my Lord and Lady Salop, by easy stages and long halts; otherwise she must have hired servants,
or carried pistols, and been prepared to use them, in the mail. Fortunately the Salops' chariots
and gigs did not start till the afternoon, so that Mistress Betty had the morning to spend
with her new friends, and she was delighted to bestow it on them; though my Lord and Lady and
their satellites were perpetually sending lacqueys with compliments, conveniences, and little
offerings to court Mistress Betty,--the star in the plenitude of her lustre, who might emulate
Polly Peacham, and be led to the altar by another enslaved Duke of Bolton.

How pleasant Mistress Betty was with the girls! Upon the whole, she slighted "the Justice,"
as she had dubbed him. She saw with her quick eyes that he was something superior; but then
she saw many men quite as well-looking, well-endowed, well-mannered, and with as fair intellects,
and more highly cultivated than he.

But she did not often find a pair of unsophisticated little girls won to her by her frankness
and kindness, and dazzled by her goodness and greatness. How she awoke Fiddy's laugh with the
Chit-Chat Club and the Silence Stakes. What harmless, diverting stories she told them of high
life--how she had danced at Ranelagh, sailed upon the Thames, eaten her bun at Chelsea, mounted
one of the eight hundred favours which cost a guinea a piece when Lady Die became a countess,
and called upon Lady Petersham, in her deepest mourning, when she sat in her state-bed enveloped
in crape, with her children and grandchildren in a row at her feet! And then she told that
she was born in a farmhouse like that on the hill, and would like to know if they roasted groats
and played at shovelboard there still; and ended by showing them her little silver tankard,
which her godfather the jolly miller had given her, and out of which her elder sister, who
had never taken kindly to tea, had drunk her ale and her aniseed water. And Fiddy and Prissy
had each a draught of milk out of it, to boast of for the rest of their lives, as if they had
sipped caudle out of the caudle-cup at a royal heir's christening.

Mistress Betty made the girls talk, too,--of their garden, the old parish clerk, the housekeeper
at Larks' Hall, granny, madam, the vicar, and, to his face, of Uncle Rowland, his horses and
colts, his cows and calves, his pictures and cabinets. They spoke also of Foxholes, of Letty
and Grizel, of Sedley and Bearwood, and Dick Ashbridge--at whose name Prissy laughed saucily,
and Fiddy bit her lips and frowned as fiercely as she was able. With what penetration Mistress
Betty read their connections, and how blithely and tenderly she commented upon them!

Mistress Betty promised to send her young friends sets of silk for their embroidery (and kept
her word); she presented Prissy with her enamel snuff-box, bearing an exact representation
of that ugly building of St. James's; and Fiddy with her "equipage"--scissors, tablets, and
all, chased and wreathed with tiny pastorals, shepherds reclining and piping on sylvan banks,
and shepherds and shepherdesses dancing on velvet lawns.

Mistress Betty kissed the girls at parting, and wished them health, peace, and good husbands;
she held out her hand to Master Rowland, who took it with a crimson cheek, and raised it to
his lips: pshaw! she never once looked at him.

The poor bachelor squire drove off, but for his manhood, groaning inwardly. Lady Betty had
acted, and caught not only her share of Master Rowland's ticket, to which she was fairly entitled,
but the cream of his fancy and the core of his heart; with which she had no manner of business,
any more than with the State Papers and the Coronation-jewels.

IV.--MASTER ROWLAND GOES UP TO LONDON.

In the green-room of one of the great London theatres--David Garrick's, perhaps--the stage
company and their friends were waiting the call-boy and the rising of the curtain.

As strange boards as any--as broad contrasts. Here a king, with his crown cast down; there
a beggar, with his wallet laid aside. But kings and beggars are not affording the glaring discrepancies
of Hogarth's "Olympus in a Barn," but suggesting and preserving the distinctions far below
the buskins, the breastplate, the sandals, the symars. Here are heroes, with the heroism only
skin deep; and peers, like their Graces of Bolton and Wharton, with less of the lofty, self-denying
graces and the ancient chivalry, than the most grovelling of ploughmen.

Among the crowd, Lady Betty is biding her time, very nonchalant, and a little solitary in her
state. Ladies who are independent, exclusive, and inflexible, however admired and respected,
are generally left to enjoy their own opinions unmolested and at their leisure, whether behind
the stage curtain or elsewhere.

Just then a country gentleman, whose murrey coat has a certain country cut, while his complexion
breathes of hay-fields and hedge sides, is introduced, gazes round, and steps up to her. Mistress
Betty cries out, "La!"--an exclamation not a whit vulgar in her day--"the Justice!" And she
holds forth both her hands. "How are dear Mistress Prissy and Mistress Fiddy? Have you come
up to town for any time, sir? I wish prosperity to your business."

He has not held such kind, unaffected, friendly hands since they parted; he has only once before
held a hand that could have led a Jaffier to confess his conspiracy--that could have clung
to a crushed man, and striven to raise him when calamity, like a whirlwind, cast him down.

The squire is sensibly moved, and Mistress Betty vindicates her womanliness by jumping at a
conclusion and settling in her own mind that his brain is addled with this great London--its
politicians, its mohawks, its beggars in Axe Lane, its rich tradesmen in Cranbourne Alley,
its people of quality, fashion, and taste in their villas at Twickenham.

He asks if she is on in Belvidera, and when he hears that it is another actress's benefit,
and that she has only consented to appear in a secondary part in a comedy of Sir John's, who
is now a great castle-builder, he does not trouble himself to enter a box; at which she is
half flattered, half perplexed. He waits, hot and excited, until her short service is over.
He will not call upon her at her lodgings, because, in his delicacy, he has so keen a remembrance
of her exposed position.

In the corner behind the curtain, bounded by the refreshment table, and filled with the prompter's
monotonous drawl,--far, far from his barley ripe for the mowing, his boxwood peacocks, his
greyhaired Hal and his buxom milkmaids; far from old madam, the pedantic, formal vicar, young
madam, brisk, hot, and genial, and his old charmers Prissy and Fiddy,--the squire told his
tale of true love. The man threw down the costs and besought Mistress Betty Lumley, Lady Betty,
to renounce the stage, forsake fame, quit studies, rehearsals, opening-nights, and concluding
curtsies amidst the cheers of thousands, to go down with him to rural Larks' Hall, to grow
younger, happier, and better every day, and die like Lady Loudon in her hundredth year, universally
regretted,--above all, to fill up the gulf which had yawned in the market-place of his existence
since that night at Bath.

It was a primitive proceeding. Lady Betty was amazed at the man's assurance, simplicity, and
loyalty. He spoke plainly--almost bluntly--but very forcibly. It was no slight or passing passion
which had brought the squire, a gentleman of a score and more of honourable descents, to seek
such an audience-chamber to sue a pasteboard queen. It was no weak love which had dislodged
him from his old resting-place, and pitched him to this dreary distance.

Mistress Betty was taken "all in a heap;" she had heard many a love-tale, but never one with
so manly a note. Shrewd, sensitive Mistress Betty was bewildered and confounded, and in her
hurry she made a capital blunder. She dismissed him summarily, saw how white he grew, and heard
how he stopped to ask if there were no possible alternative, no period of probation to endure,
no achievement to be performed by him. She waved him off the faster because she became affrighted
at his humility; and got away in her chair, and wrung her hands, and wept all night in the
long summer twilight, and sat pensive and sick for many days.

In time, Mistress Betty resumed her profession; but she was unusually languid: she played to
disappointed houses, and cherished always, with more romance, the shade of the brave, trustful,
Somersetshire squire and antiquary. Suddenly she adopted the resolution of retiring from the
stage in the summer of her popularity, and living on her savings and her poor young brother's
bequest. Her tastes were simple; why should she toil to provide herself with luxuries? She
had no one now for whose old age she could furnish ease, or for the aims and accidents of whose
rising station she need lay by welcome stores; she had not even a nephew or niece to tease
her. She would not wear out the talents a generous man had admired on a mass of knaves and
villains, coxcombs and butterflies; she would not expose her poor mind and heart to further
deterioration. She would fly from the danger; she would retire, and board with her cousin Ward,
and help her with a little addition to her limited income, and a spare hand in her small family;
and she would jog-trot onwards for the rest of her life, so that when she came to die, Mistress
Prissy and Mistress Fiddy would have no cause to be ashamed that so inoffensive, inconspicuous,
respectable a person had once been asked to stand to them in the dignified relation of aunt.
The public vehemently combated Mrs. Betty's verdict, in vain; they were forced to lament during
twice nine days their vanished favourite, who had levanted so unceremoniously beyond the reach
of their good graces.

V.--MISTRESS BETTY TRAVELS DOWN INTO SOMERSETSHIRE.

A formal but friendly letter came to Mistress Betty, when her life was one of long dusty exertion,
and her heart was very thirsty and parched. The shabby-genteel world and the tradesman's life,
unless in exceptional cases of great wealth, were different things a hundred and fifty years
ago from what they are now. The villas at Twickenham, the rural retreats, the gardens, the
grottos, the books, the harpsichords, the water-colour drawings, belonged to the quality, or
to the literary lions: to Lady Mary or Pope, Horace Walpole or his young friends the Berrys.
The half-pay officer's widow, the orphan of the bankrupt in the South Sea business, the wife
and family of the moderately flourishing haberdasher, or coach-builder, or upholsterer--the
tobacconist rose far above the general level--were cooped up in the City dwellings, and confined
to gossip, fine clothes, and good eating if they could afford them. A walk in the City gardens,
a trip to Richmond Hill, and the shows, were their pastimes, and Mr. Steele's 'Christian Hero,'
'An Advice to a Daughter,' and De Foe's 'History of the Plague,' were their mental delectation.

But Mistress Betty had the soul of a martyr; she had resigned herself to sinking down into
the star of cousin Ward's set, who went on holidays to the play--mostly honest, fat and fatuous,
or jaunty and egotistical folk, who admired the scenery and the dresses, but could no more
have made a play to themselves than they could have drawn the cartoons. She helped cousin Ward,
not only with her purse, but with a kinswoman's concern in her and hers: she assisted to wash
and dress the children of a morning; she took a turn at cooking in the middle of the day; she
helped to detain Master Ward at the tea-table, and to keep his wig and knee-buckles from too
early an appearance and too thorough a soaking of his self-conceit and wilfulness at his tavern;
and she heard the lads their lessons, while she darned their frills before supper.

Then arrived the summons, over which Mistress Betty, a little worn by voluntary adversity,
shed "a power" of joyful tears. To travel down into Somersetshire, and stroll among the grass
in the meadows, and the gorse on the commons, which she had not seen for twelve months; to
feed the calves, and milk the cows, and gather the eggs, and ride Dapple, and tie up the woodbine,
and eat syllabub in a bower; to present "great frieze coats" and "riding-hoods" to a dozen
of the poorest old men and women in the parish; to hear prayers in a little grey church, through
whose open windows ivy nodded, and before whose doors trees arched in vistas; to see her sweet
little Prissy and Fiddy, who had taken such a fancy to her, and the vicar, and madam, and granny,
and find them all perfectly agreeable, and not slighting her or doubting her because she had
been a woman of fashion and an actress; and Master Rowland well disposed of elsewhere; Larks'
Hall deserted by its master--the brave, generous, enamoured squire--heigho! Mistress Betty,
for all her candour, good humour, and cordiality, had her decent pride, and would not have
thrown herself at any man's head.

Somersetshire, in spite of Bath, was as antediluvian a hundred and fifty years ago as the lanes
and coombes of Devonshire. Larks' Hall, Foxholes, Bearwood, the Vicarage of Mosely, and their
outlying acquaintances, their yeomen and their labourers, lived as old-fashioned and hearty
a life as if the battle of Sedgemoor had never been fought.

Down in Somersetshire, among its orchards, nutteries, and blackberry thickets, poor little
Mistress Fiddy was drooping, as girls would pine sometimes, even in the days of Will Shakspeare,
ere cloth-yard shafts were abolished from merry England, when there were still mayings among
the hyacinths, and milkmaids' dances under the thorns, and mummings when the snow fell. And
Dick Ashbridge shot and fished in the most disconsolate abandonment, though the girl yet ran
past him "like a ghost" when the beetle and bat were abroad, and he was still mooning about
the vicarage meadows.

Neither of them knew for certain, and nobody could predict exactly, that she would live to
wed Dick, bear him children, and leave him a sorrowful widower, whose heart was chastened--not
torn. No; nor could the good folk in Somersetshire understand how closely Lady Betty and little
Fiddy were bound up together, and how little Fiddy was to return Lady Betty's kindness, in
the days when the little girl should be the teacher, and the fine woman the scholar, and the
lesson to be learnt came from regions beyond the stars.

In the meantime, Fiddy was a sick, capricious, caressed darling in a cambric cap and silk shawl,
on whom fond friends were waiting lovingly: whom nobody in the world, not even the doctor,
the parish clerk, or the housekeeper at Larks' Hall, dreamt of subjecting to the wholesome
medicine of contradiction--unless it might be Granny, when she came in with her staff in her
hand. She would laugh at their excess of care, and order them to leave off spoiling that child;
but even Granny herself would let fall a tear from her dim eyes when she read the register
of the child's age in the family Bible.

"Ah!" sighs whimsical little Mistress Fiddy, "if only Lady Betty were here--great, good, kind,
clever, funny, beautiful Lady Betty--who cured me that night at Bath, papa and mamma, I would
be well again. She knows the complaint; she has had it herself; and her face is so cheering,
her wit so enlivening, and she reads the lessons so solemnly and sweetly. O mamma! send for
Mistress Betty; she will come at once; she does not play now; the prints say so. She will be
the better of the country air too. Send for Mistress Betty to Mosely."

Madam was in a difficulty. An actress at the vicarage! And Master Rowland had been so rash.
He had dropped hints, which, along with his hurried visit to London, had instilled dim, dark
suspicions into the minds of his appalled relations of the whirlpool he had just coasted, they
knew not how: they could not believe the only plain palpable solution of the fact. And Granny
had inveighed against women of fashion and all public characters, ever since Uncle Rowland
took that jaunt to town, whence he returned so glum and dogged. But then, again, how could
the mother deny her ailing Fiddy? And this brilliant Mistress Betty from the gay world might
possess some talisman unguessed by the quiet folks at home. Little Fiddy had no real disease,
no settled pain: she only wanted change, pleasant company, and diversion, and would be plump
and strong again in no time. And Mistress Betty had retired from the stage now; she was no
longer a marked person: she might pass anywhere as Mistress Lumley, who had acted with success
and celebrity, and withdrawn at the proper moment, with the greatest dignity and discretion.
And Master Rowland was arranging his affairs to make the grand tour in the prime of life: his
absence would clear away a monstrous objection. What would the Vicar say? What would Granny say?

The Vicar ruled his parish, and lectured in the church; but in the parsonage he thought very
much as madam did, and was only posed when old madam and young madam pulled him different ways.

And Granny! Why, to madam's wonder, Granny required no wheedling, but--apprised of the deliberation,
by the little minx Prissy, who in Fiddy's illness attended on Granny--she sent for madam before
madam even knew that the proposal had been so much as mooted to her, and struck her stick on
the ground in her determined way, and insisted that Mistress Betty should be writ for forthwith
and placed at the head of the child's society. Granny, who had soundly rated fine ladies and
literary women not two days before! It was very extraordinary; but Granny must have her way.
The children paid her affectionate duty, young madam did her half-grateful, half-vexed homage,
the Vicar and Master Rowland deferred to her in her widowhood and dependence, and with little
less grace and reverence than what she had taught them to practise when they were lads under
tutelage. She was, in fact, the fully accredited mistress of Larks' Hall.

And Granny, in reality, presided at the vicarage; not oppressively, for she was one of those
sagacious magnates who are satisfied with the substance of power without loving its show. Notwithstanding,
she prevented the publication of more than two calf-skin volumes at a time of the Vicar's sermons;
she turned madam aside when she would have hung the parlour with gilt leather, in imitation
of Foxholes; and she restricted the little girls to fresh ribbons once a month, and stomachers
of their own working. And so, when Granny decreed that Mistress Betty was to be invited down
to Mosely, there was no more question of the propriety of the measure that there would have
been of an Act of Council given under the Tudors; the only things left to order were the airing
of the best bedroom, the dusting of the ebony furniture, and the bleaching on the daisies of
old madam's diamond quilt.

Down to Somersetshire went Mistress Betty, consoling cousin Ward with the gift of a bran-new
mantua and a promise of a speedy return, and braving those highwaymen who were for ever robbing
King George's mail; but the long, light midsummer nights were in their favour, and their mounted
escort had to encounter no paladins of the road in scarlet coats and feathered hats.

Mistress Betty's buoyant spirit rose with the fresh air, the green fields, and the sunshine.
She was so obliging and entertaining to an invalid couple among her fellow-travellers, an orange
nabob from India and his splendid wife, that they declared she had done them more good than
they would derive from the Pump-room, the music, and the cards, to which they were bound. They
asked her address, and pressed her to pay them a visit; when they would have certainly adopted
her, and bequeathed to her their plum. As it was, half-a-dozen years later, when, to her remorse,
she had clean forgotten their existence, they astounded her by leaving her a handsome legacy;
which, with the consent of another party concerned--one who greatly relished the mere name
of the bequest, as a proof that nobody could ever resist Lady Betty--she shared with a cross-grained
grand-nephew whom the autocratic pair had cut off with a shilling.

VI.--BETWEEN MOSELY AND LARKS' HALL.

At Mosely Mistress Betty alighted at last, entered the wicket-gate, and approached the small,
weather-stained, brick house. She made her curtsy to madam, asked the Vicar's blessing--though
he was not twenty-five years her senior and scarcely so wise--hugged the little girls, particularly
sick Fiddy, and showered upon them pretty tasteful town treasures, which little country girls,
sick or well, dearly love. Fiddy's eyes were glancing already; but she did not leave off holding
Mistress Betty's hand in order to try on her mittens, or to turn the handle of the musical
box. And Mistress Betty finally learned, with some panic and palpitation, which she was far
too sensible and stately a woman to betray, that the Justice was not gone--that Master Rowland,
in place of examining the newly-excavated Italian cities, or dabbling in state treason in France,
was no further off than Larks' Hall, confined there with a sprained ankle: nobody being to
blame, unless it were Granny, who had detained Master Rowland to the last moment, or Uncle
Rowland himself, for riding his horse too near the edge of the sandpit, and endangering his
neck as well as his shin-bones. However, Mistress Betty did not cry out that she had been deceived,
or screech distractedly, or swoon desperately (though the last was in her constitution), neither
did she seem to be brokenhearted by the accident.

But Granny's reception of her was the great event of the day. Granny was a picture, in her
grey gown and "clean white hood nicely plaited," seated in her wicker seat "fronting the south,
and commanding the washing-green." Here Granny was amusing herself picking gooseberries--which
the notable Prissy was to convert into gooseberry-fool, one of the dishes projected to grace
the town lady's supper--when Mistress Betty was led towards her.

It was always a trying moment when a stranger at Mosely was presented to old Madam Parnell.
The Parnells had agreed, for one thing, that it would be most proper and judicious, as Mistress
Betty had quitted the stage--doubtless in some disappointment of its capabilities, or condemnation
of the mode in which it was conducted,--to be chary in theatrical illusions, to drop the theatrical
sobriquet Lady Betty, and hail their guest with the utmost ceremony and sincerity as Mistress
Lumley. But Granny turned upon her visitor a face still fresh, in its small, fine-furrowed
compass, hailed her as Lady Betty on the spot, and emphatically expressed all the praise she
had heard of her wonderful powers; regretting that she had not been in the way of witnessing
them, and declaring that as they escaped the snares and resisted the temptations of her high
place, they did her the utmost honour, for they served to prove that her merits and her parts
were equal. Actually, Granny behaved to Lady Betty as to a person of superior station, and
persisted in rising and making room for the purpose of sharing with her the wicker seat; and
there they sat, the old queen and the young.

Young madam had been quite determined that, as Uncle Rowland was so unfortunate as to be held
by the foot at Larks' Hall from his tour, he should not risk his speedy recovery by hobbling
over to Mosely, when she could go herself or send Prissy every morning to let him know how
the invalid was. But the very day after Mistress Betty's arrival old madam secretly dispatched
Tim, the message-boy, to desire the squire to order out the old coach, and make a point of
joining the family party either at dinner or at supper. Young madam was sufficiently chagrined;
but then the actress and the squire met so coldly, and little Fiddy was flushing up into a
quiver of animation, and Mistress Betty was such delightful company in the slumbrous country
parsonage.

It is pleasant to think of the doings of the Parnells, the witcheries of Mistress Betty, and
the despotism of old madam, during the next month. Indeed, Mistress Betty was so reverent,
so charitable, so kind, so gentle as well as blithe under depressing influences, and so witty
under stagnation, that it would have been hard to have lived in the same house with her and
have been her enemy: she was so easily gratified, so easily interested; she could suit herself
to so many phases of this marvellous human nature. She listened to the Vicar's "argument" with
edification, and hunted up his authorities with diligence. She scoured young madam's lutestring,
and made it up in the latest and most elegant fashion of nightgowns, with fringes and buttons,
such as our own little girls could match. She made hay with Prissy and Fiddy, and not only
accomplished a finer cock than weak Fiddy and impatient Priss, but surpassed the regular haymakers.
And she looked, oh! so well in her haymaker's jacket and straw hat--though young madam was
always saying that her shape was too large for the dress, and that the slight hollows in her
cheeks were exaggerated by the shade from the broad-brimmed flapping straw.

Of course Mistress Betty performed in the "Traveller" and "Cross Purposes," and gave out riddles
and sang songs round the hearth of a rainy evening, or about the cherrywood table in the arbour,
of a cloudless twilight, much more pat than other people--that was to be looked for; but then
she also played at love after supper, loo and cribbage for a penny the game--deeds in which
she could have no original superiority and supremacy--with quite as infectious an enthusiasm.

To let you into a secret, young madam was in horror at one time that Dick Ashbridge was wavering
in his allegiance to her white rosebud, Fiddy; so enthralling was this scarlet pomegranate,
this purple vine. But one evening Mrs. Betty turned suddenly upon the mad boy, to whom she
had been very soft, saying that he bore a great resemblance to her cousin's second son Jack,
and asked how old he was? and did he not think of taking another turn at college? This restored
the boy to his senses in a trice, and she kissed Mistress Fiddy twice over when she bade her
good night.

But old madam and Lady Betty were the chief pair of friends. Granny, with her own sway in her
day, and her own delicate discrimination, acute intellect, and quick feelings, was a great
enough woman not to be jealous of a younger queen, but to enjoy her exceedingly. Madam Parnell
had seen the great world as well as Lady Betty, and never tired of reviving old recollections,
comparing experiences, and tracing the fates of the children and grandchildren of the great
men and women her contemporaries. Prissy and Fiddy vowed over and over again, that the stirring
details were more entertaining than any story-book. For this reason, Granny took a personal
pride in Lady Betty's simplest feat, as well as in her intellectual crown, and put her through
every stage of her own particular recipes for cream cheese and pickled walnuts.

"The dickons!" cried a Somerset yeoman: "The Lon'on madam has opened the five-barred gate that
beat all the other women's fingers, and gathered the finest elder-flowers, and caught the fattest
chicken; and they tell me she has repeated verses to poor crazed Isaac, till she has lulled
him into a fine sleep. 'Well done, Lon'on!' cries I; 'luck to the fine lady:' I never thought
to wish success to such a kind." Granny, too, cried, "Well done, Lon'on! Luck to the fine lady!"
If all Helens were but as pure, and true, and tender as Lady Betty!

Granny would have Lady Betty shown about among the neighbours, and maintained triumphantly
that she read them, Sedleys, Ashbridges, and Harringtons, as if they were characters in a printed
book--not that she looked down on them, or disparaged them in any way; she was far more tolerant
than rash, inexperienced Prissy and Fiddy. And Granny ordered Lady Betty to be carried sight-seeing
to Larks' Hall, and made minute arrangements for her to inspect Granny's old domain, from garret
to cellar, from the lofty usher-tree at the gate to the lowly

    "Plaintain ribbed that heals the reapers' wound"

in the herb-bed. No cursory inspection would suffice her: the pragmatical housekeeper and the
rosy milkmaids had time to give up their hearts to Lady Betty like the rest. Master Rowland,
as in courtesy bound, limped with the stranger over his helmets and gauntlets, his wooden carvings,
his black-letter distich; and, although she was not overflowing in her praises, she had seen
other family pictures by Greuze, and she herself possessed a fan painted by Watteau, to which
he was vastly welcome if he cared for such a broken toy.

She fancied the head of one of the Roman emperors to be like his Grace of Montague; she had
a very lively though garbled familiarity with the histories of the veritable Brutus and Cassius,
Coriolanus, Cato, Alexander, and other mighty, picturesque, cobbled-up ancients, into whose
mouths she could put appropriate speeches; and she accepted a loan of his 'Plutarch's Lives,'
"to clear up her classics," as she said merrily; altogether poor Squire Rowland felt that he
had feasted at an intellectual banquet.

At last it was time to think of redeeming her pledge to cousin Ward; and, to Mistress Betty's
honour, the period came while Master Rowland was still too lame to leave Larks' Hall, except
in his old coach, and while it yet wanted weeks to the softening, gladdening, overwhelming
bounty of the harvest-home.

Then occurred the most singular episodes of perverseness and reiterated instances of inconsistency
of which Granny had been found guilty in the memory of man, either as heiress of Larks' Hall
or as old madam of the vicarage. At first she would not hear of Mistress Betty's departure,
and asked her to be her companion, during her son's absence, in his house of Larks' Hall, where
all at once she announced that she meant to take up her temporary residence. She did not approve
of its being committed entirely to the supervision of Mrs. Prue, her satellite, the schoolmaster's
daughter who used so many long words in cataloguing her preserves and was so trustworthy: Mrs.
Prue would feel lonesome; Mrs. Prue would take to gadding like the chits Prissy and Fiddy.
No, she would remove herself for a year, and carry over her old man Morris along with her,
and see that poor Rowley's goods were not wasted or his curiosities lost while he chose to
tarry abroad.

Master Rowland stared, but made no objection to this invasion; Mrs. Betty, after much private
rumination and great persuasion, consented to the arrangement. Young madam was obliged to be
ruefully acquiescent, though secretly irate at so preposterous a scheme; the Vicar, good man,
to do him justice, was always ponderously anxious to abet his mother, and had, besides, a sneaking
kindness for Mistress Betty; the girls were privately charmed, and saw no end to the new element
of breadth, brightness, and zest, in their little occupations and amusements.

When again, of a sudden, after the day was fixed for Master Rowland's departure, and the whole
family were assembled in the vicarage parlour--old madam fell a-crying and complaining that
they were taking her son away from her--robbing her of him: she would never live to set eyes
on him again--a poor old body of her years and trials would not survive another flitting. She
had been fain to gratify some of his wishes; but see if they would not destroy them both, mother
and son, by their stupid narrow-mindedness and obstinacy.

Such a thing had never happened before. Who had ever seen Granny unreasonable and foolish?
The Vicar slipped his hand to her wrist, in expectation that he would detect signs of hay-fever,
though it was a full month too late for the complaint--there had been cases in the village--and
was shaken off with sufficient energy for his pains.

"Mother," exclaimed Master Rowland, haughtily, "I understand you; but I had a plain answer
to a plain question months ago, and I will have no reversal to please you. Pity craved by an
old woman's weakness! favours granted in answer to tears drawn from dim eyes! I am not such
a slave!"

The others were all clamouring round Granny, kissing her hand, kneeling on her footstool, imploring
her to tell them what she wanted, what she would like best, what they could go and do for her;
only the squire spoke in indignant displeasure, and nobody attended to him but Mistress Betty.

It did appear that the squire had been too fast in repelling advances which did not follow
his mother's appeal. Mistress Betty gave no token--she stood pulling the strings of her cap,
and growing first very red, and then ominously white, like any girl.

Perhaps the squire suspected that he had been too hasty, that he had not been grateful to his
old mother, or generous to the woman who, however fine, and courted, and caressed, was susceptible
of a simple woman's anguish at scorn or slight. Perhaps there flashed on his recollection a
certain paper in the 'Spectator,' wherein a young lady's secret inclination towards a young
gentleman is conclusively revealed, not by her advances to save his pride, but by her silence,
her blushes, her disposition to swoon with distress when an opportunity is afforded her of
putting herself forward to attract his notice--nay, when she is even urged to go so far as
to solicit his regard.

Master Rowland's brow lightened as if a cloud lowering there had suddenly cleared away--Master
Rowland began to look as if it were a much more agreeable experience to contemplate Mistress
Betty nervous and glum, than Lady Betty armed at a hundred points, and all but invulnerable--Master
Rowland walked as alertly to her side as if there were no such things as sprains in this world.
"Madam, forgive me if I have attributed to you a weak complacency to which you would never
condescend. Madam, if you have changed your mind, and can now tolerate my suit, and accord
it the slightest return, I am at your feet."

Assuredly, the tall, vigorous, accomplished squire would have been there, not figuratively
but in his imposing person. Family explanations were admissible a century and a half ago; public
declarations were sometimes a point of honour; bodily prostration was by no means exploded;
matter-of-fact squires knelt like romantic knights; Sir Charles Grandison and Sir Roger de
Coverley bent as low for their own purposes as fantastic gauze and tinsel troubadours.

But Mistress Betty prevented him. "I am not worth it, Master Rowland," cried Mistress Betty,
sobbing and covering her face with her hands; and, as she could not have seen the obeisance,
the gentleman intermitted it, pulled down the hands, kissed Madam Betty oftener than the one
fair salute, and handed her across the room to receive Granny's blessing. Granny sat up and
composed herself, wished them joy (though she had the grace to look a little ashamed of herself),
very much as if she had obtained her end.

There is no use in denying that young madam took to bed for three days, and was very pettish
for a fortnight; but eventually gave in to the match, and was not so much afflicted by it as
she had expected, after the first brunt. Granny, in her age, was so absurdly set on the mésalliance,
and so obliging and pleasant about everything else--the Vicar and the little lasses were so
provokingly careless of the wrong done them and the injury to the family,--that she knew very
well, when her back was turned, they formed as nonsensically hilarious a bridal party as if
the wedding had concerned one of themselves and not the bachelor uncle, the squire of Larks'
Hall. And Mistress Betty ordered down the smartest livery; and the highest gentry in Somersetshire
would have consented to grace the ceremony, had she cared for their presence, such a prize
was she in their country-houses when they could procure her countenance during their brief
sojourn among sparkling rills and woodland shades. Altogether, young madam, in spite of her
vanities and humours, loved the children, the Vicar, Granny, the bridegroom, and even (with
a grudge) the bride, and was affected by the sweet summer season and the happy marriage-tide,
and was, in the main, too good to prove a kill-joy.

Master Rowland and Mistress Betty were married by Master Rowland's own brother in the Vicar's
own church, with Fiddy and Prissy and the Sedleys for bridesmaids, and Dick Ashbridge for a
groom's-man. Cousin Ward, brought all the way from town to represent the bride's relations,
was crying as if she were about to lose an only daughter. For Granny, she would not shed one
bright, crystal tear on any account; besides, she was ever in state at Larks' Hall to welcome
home, the happy couple. Ah, well, they were all happy couples in those days!

At Larks' Hall Mistress Betty bloomed during many a year; for a fine woman knows no decay;
she only passes from one stage of beauty and excellence to another, wearing, as her rightful
possession, all hearts--her sons', as their father's before them. And Master Rowland no longer
sat lonely in his hall, in the frosty winter dusk or under the usher-oak in the balmy summer
twilight, but walked through life briskly and bravely, with a perfect mate; whom he had not
failed to recognize as a real diamond among the bits of glass before the footlights--a diamond
which his old mother had consented to set for him.

Our squire and Lady Betty are relics of a former generation. We have squires as many by thousands,
as accomplished by tens of thousands; but the inimitable union of simplicity and refinement,
downrightness and dignity, disappeared with the last faint reflection of Sir Roger de Coverley.
And charming Lady Betty departed also with early hours, pillions, and cosmetics--that blending
of nature and art, knowledge of the corrupt world and abiding true-heartedness, which then
existed--a sort of marvel.

A CAST IN THE WAGGON.

I.--DULCIE'S START IN THE WAGGON FOR HER COMPANY.

Old and young were clamouring hoarsely and shrilly by daybreak one September morning round
a little girl, one of a cloth-worker's numerous family. She had been rather a tender lass,
and change of air was thought good for her full growth. Though she was still small, she was
close on her one-and-twentieth year, and her friends held it was high time for her to see the
world. It was seeing the world to go with a late mayor's daughter, an orphan and an heiress,
who had been visiting the cloth-worker's family, and would have Dulcie to live with her for
awhile in a neighbouring town as a friend and companion.

Mind those worthy warm-hearted relatives of Dulcie's had no idea of her returning to her parents'
nest in a hurry, though the two towns, Fairfax and Redwater, were within a day's journey by
waggon of each other. Dulcie would see the world, and stay in her new abode in the next country
town, or lose her character for dignity and spirit; and girls were fain to be thought discreet
and decided a hundred years ago or so. She might as lief marry as not, when she was away on
her travels. Girls married then with far less trouble than they accomplished such a journey.
They ran down to Richmond and married on a Sunday, to save a talk and a show; they walked out
of the opera where Handel might be performing, and observant gentlemen took the cue, followed
on their heels, and had the knot tied by a priest, waiting in the house opposite the first
chair-stand. Indeed, they contracted alliances so unceremoniously, that they went to Queen
Caroline's or the Princesses' drawing-room, without either themselves or the world appearing
quite sure whether they were maids or wives. Dear! dear! what did come of these foolish impulsive
matches? Did they fulfil the time out of mind adage, "Happy's the wooing that's not long a-doing"?
or that other old proverb, "Marry in haste, and repent at leisure"? Which was the truth?

It is a pity that you should see Dulcie, for the first time, in tears. Dulcie, who only cried
on great occasions, in great sorrow or great joy--not above half-a-dozen times in her life.
Dulcie, whom the smallpox could not spoil, with her pretty forehead, cat's eyes, and fine chin.
Does that description give you an idea of Dulcie--Dulcie Cowper, not yet Madam, but any day
she liked Mistress Dulcie? It seems expressive. An under-sized, slight-made girl, with a little
face clearly, very clearly cut, but round in all its lines as yet; an intelligent face, an
enthusiastic face, a face that could be very shrewd and practical, and, at the same time, a
face that could be lavishly generous. The chief merit of her figure lay in this particular,
that she "bridled" well. Yes, it is true, we have almost forgotten the old accomplishment of
"bridling"--the head up and the chin in, with the pliant knees bent in a low curtsey. Dulcie
"bridled," as she prattled, to perfection. She had light brown hair, of the tint of a squirrel's
fur, and the smoothness of a mouse's coat, though it was twisted and twirled into a kind of
soft willowy curls when she was in high dress. Ah! no wonder that Kit Cowper, the cloth-worker,
groaned to see that bright face pass from his ninepin alley; but it was the way of the world,
or rather the will of Providence to the cloth-worker, that the child should fulfil her destiny.
So Dulcie was launched on the sea of life, as far as Redwater, to push her fortune.

No wonder Dulcie was liked by Clarissa Gage. Clarissa was two years younger than Dulcie, but
she was half-a-dozen years older in knowledge of the world, and therefore fell in love with
Dulcie for the sake of variety. Clarissa had the bones of a noble woman under her pedantry
and affectation; she was a peg above Dulcie in station, and a vast deal before her in the world's
estimation. She was indeed "a fortune;" and you err egregiously if you suppose a fortune was
not properly valued a hundred years ago. Men went mad for fair faces and glib tongues, but
solidly and sensibly married fortunes, according to all the old news-prints. But Clarissa was
also a beauty, far more of a regular beauty than Dulcie, with one of those inconceivably dazzling
complexions that blush on like a June rose to old age, and a stately height and presence for
her years. She had dark brown curls of the deep brown of mountain waters, with the ripple of
the same, hanging down in a wreath of tendrils on the bend of the neck behind. With all her
gifts, Mistress Clary had the crowning bounty which does not always accompany so many inferior
endowments: she had sense under her airs, and she was good enough to like Dulcie instinctively,
and to think how nice it would be to have Dulcie with her and Mistress Cambridge in their formal
brick house, with the stone coping and balcony, at Redwater. Besides, (credit to her womanhood,)
Clarissa did reflect what a fine thing it would be for Dulcie Cowper getting up in years, really
getting up in years, however young in spirit, to have the variety, and the additional chance
of establishing herself in life. Certainly, Redwater was a town of more consideration than
Fairfax, and had its occasional assemblies and performances of strolling players; and Clarissa,
in right of her father's family, visited the vicar and the squire, and could carry Dulcie along
with her, since the child's manners were quite genteel, and her clothes perfectly presentable.

It was a harmonious arrangement, in which not only Clarissa but Mistress Cambridge agreed.
Cambridge was one of those worthy, useful persons, whom nobody in those strangely plain but
decidedly aristocratic days--not even Clarissa and Dulcie, though they sat with her, ate with
her, hugged her when they wanted to coax her--ever thought or spoke of otherwise than "Cambridge,
a good sort of woman in her own way." The only temporary drawback to the contentment of the
party was the shower of tears which fell at Dulcie's forcible separation from her relatives.
It was forcible in the end; all the blessings had been given in the house--don't sneer, they
did her no harm, no harm, but a vast deal of good--and only the kisses and tears were finished
off in the street.

After all this introduction, it is painful to describe how the company travelled. It was in
a stage waggon! But they could not help it. We never stated that they were out-and-out quality;
and not even all the quality could travel in four coaches and six, with twelve horsemen riding
attendance, and an unpaid escort of butchers, bakers, and apothecaries, whipping and spurring
part of the way for the custom. What could the poor Commons do? There were not stage coaches
in every quarter of the great roads; and really if they pocketed their gentility, the huge
brown waggons were of the two extinct conveyances the roomier, airier, and safer both from
overturns and highwaymen. The seats were soft, the space was ample, and the three unprotected
females were considered in a manner incognito, which was about as modest a style as they could
travel in. Of course, they were not in their flowered silks, their lutestrings, their mantuas.
We are assured every respectable woman travelled then in a habit and hat, and no more thought
of hoops than of hair powder. The only peculiarity was that beneath their hats they wore mob-caps,
tied soberly under the chin, and red or blue handkerchiefs knotted over the hat, which gave
them the air of Welsh market-women, or marvellously clean and tidy gipsies. Clarissa was spelling
out the words in Pharamond--a French classic; Dulcie was looking disconsolately straight before
her through their sole outlet, the bow at the end of the waggon, which circumscribed as pretty
and fresh a circle of common and cornfield, with crimson patches of wood and the blue sky above,
as one might wish to see. Occasionally the crack of a sportsman's gun was heard to the right
or left, followed by a pheasant or a string of partridges darting across the opening of the
canvas car; but as yet no claimant had solicited the privilege and honour of sharing the waggon
and the view with our fair travellers.

II.--TWO LADS SEEK A CAST IN THE WAGGON.

"Hullo, Joe! we want a lift," cries a brisk voice, and the couple of great steeds--they might
have been Flanders mares or Clydesdale horses, so powerful were they over the shoulders, so
mighty in the flanks--almost swerved out of their direct line and their decorum. Two fellows
suddenly started up from a couch where they had lain at length on a hay-stack, slid down the
height, crashed over an intervening bit of waste land, and arrested the waggoner in his smock-frock
and clouted shoes.

"Get in, Will, and take possession. Ha! hum! here are ladies: where will we stow our feet?
I declare Will is on their skirts already, with more green slime than is carried on the breast
of a pond. I believe he thinks them baggage--lay figures, as they've turned aside their heads.
Gentlefolks for a wager! duchesses in disguise! I must make up to them, anyhow. Ladies, at
your service; I humbly beg your pardon for having so much as thought of incommoding you, but
indeed I was not aware of your presence. Come, Will, tumble out again instantly, and do not
let us be so rude as to plague the ladies."

Poor Will! very stiff and tired, stared about him, disturbed and discomforted, and prepared
to perform the behest of his more energetic companion.

Dulcie did a little of her "bridling," but said never a word; Clarissa lifted her large, rather
languishing eyes, let them fall again on her mittens, and remained dumb. They speak before
they were spoken to? not they, they knew better. At the same time, when Will stumbled as he
alighted on his weary feet, they were guilty of an inclination to titter, though the accident
was excusable, and the point of the joke small.

"You are very polite, sirs," protested Cambridge, making round eyes, and reddening and blowing
at being constituted the mouthpiece of the party on any interest save that of victuals. "I
vow it is very pretty behaviour; but as it is a public carriage, I don't think we are at liberty
to deprive Joe of his money, and you, sirs, of your seats. What say you, Mistress Clary?"

"I decline to give an opinion," answered Clarissa with great dignity; in which she broke down
a little by adding hastily, in half audible accents. "Be quiet, Dulcie!" for Dulcie's risible
faculties had been excited in a lively degree. She had been crying so lately that there was
a hysterical turn in her mirth, and having once given way to it she could not restrain herself,
but was making all sorts of ridiculous faces and spasms in her throat without effect. You see,
these were two ordinary, happy young girls; and the stiff starch of their manners and pretensions
only brought out in a stronger light, and with a broader contrast, their youthful frolicsomeness.

"I think, sirs, you may come in--that is, if you keep your distance," Mistress Cambridge decided,
with solemn reservation. With a multitude of apologies and thanks, the two young men, more
considerate and courteous in their forward and backward fashion than many a fine gentleman
of the time, clambered up, and coiled themselves into corners, leaving a respectful void between
them and the original occupants of the waggon.

Tranquillity settled down on the travellers--a tranquillity only broken by the drowsy rumble
of the waggon-wheels, and the perennial whistle of the stooping, grizzled waggoner. Dulcie
was just thinking that they might have been Turks, they were so silent, when Mistress Cambridge
stirred the still atmosphere by the inquiry--

"Pray, sirs, have you happened to fall in with any stubble chickens in your walk; I think you
said you had been walking hereabouts?" affording Clarissa an opportunity of complaining afterwards,
in the retirement of the little inn's private room, that these young fellows would judge them
a set of gluttons or farmers' daughters abroad for a holiday, aping gentlewomen, instead of
being duchesses in disguise.

Although the girls never lifted their eyes, yet, by a magic only known to such philosophers,
they had taken as complete an inventory of the young men, beginning at their wardrobes, as
if they had looked at them coolly from head to foot for a whole half-hour. They were aware
that the fellows were in plain suits, though one of them was not without the air of being fine
on occasions. Their coats were cloth, not brocade or velvet; their ruffles were cambric, not
lace; their shoe-buckles were only silver; their hats were trimmed with braid, and neither
with gold nor silver edging. They were not my lords; they were not in regimentals; they did
not rap out oaths; they had not the university air; they showed no parson's bands; they were
not plain country bumpkins--what were they?

After all, it was scarcely worth inquiry whether the newcomers belonged to law or physic; for
the young women in their pride and petulance felt bound not to consider the investigation worth
the trouble. The lad who was the leader, and who was unquestionably of gentle enough nurture,
was a plain little fellow, sallow and homely-featured, although a good-natured person might
suppose from his smiling sagacity that in animated conversation it would be quite possible
to forget his face in his countenance. The other was ruddy, with a face as sharply cut as a
girl's, and delicate features not fitting his long limbs--clearly he was no better than a nincompoop.
Yes, the girls were perfectly justifiable in whispering as the waggon stopped to bait at the
"Nine Miles House," and they got out to bait also--

"What a pair!"

"Such a fright, the little fellow, Clary!"

"Such a goose, the tall fellow, Dulcie!"

It is a sad truth that foolish young women will judge by the exterior, leap at conclusions,
and be guilty of rude and cruel remarks.

What would come of it if the silly, sensitive hearts were in earnest, or if they did not reserve
to themselves the indefeasible right of changing their opinions?

At the "Nine Miles House" the wayfarers rested, either in the sanded parlour, or the common
kitchen of the ale-house. Mistress Clarissa and her party had the sanded parlour for themselves;
the young men, with their cramped legs, stumbled into the flitch-hung kitchen, the more entertaining
room of the two, and had plates of beans and bacon, a toast and a tankard; for the day was
in September, and the wind was already bracing both to body and appetite. Mistress Clarissa
carried her private stores, and Cambridge laid out her slices of roasts and broils, plates
of buns and comforts, and cruets with white wines. But when did a heroine remain in a sanded
parlour in an inn, when she could stroll over the country and lose her way, and get run at
by wild cattle, and stared at by naughty gentlemen? Clary was not so mean-spirited, though
she was physically lazier than Dulcie; she was eager to scamper across the stubble fields (where
Cambridge expected chickens to roam in flocks), and to wander, book in hand, by yon brook with
the bewitching pollards.

Dulcie could not accompany her. Dulcie being a practical woman, a needle in innocent sharpness,
had peeped about the waggon to inspect their luggage, and had found to her horror that one
of her boxes had burst its fastenings--that very box with her respected mother's watered tabby,
and her one lace head on the place of honour on the top. So she and Cambridge had an earnest
consultation on the accident, which resulted in their proceeding to tuck up their skirts, empty
the receptacle with the greatest care and tenderness, and repack it with such skill that a
rope would replace its rent hinges. Dulcie was not for walking.

Clarissa was thus forced to saunter alone, and after she had got to the brook and the pollards,
she sat down, and leant her arms on the bars of an old farm gate. Soon tiring of looking about
her, staring at the minnows and the late orange coltsfoot and white wild ranunculus, and the
straw-coloured willow-leaves drooping into the water, she took out of her pocket that little
brown French classic, Pharamond, and started again to accompany the French storyteller, advancing
on the very tallest of stilts that storyteller ever mounted. It was a wonder truly that Clary
on her mossy bank, and by a rustic stile, had not preferred the voices of the winds and the
waters, the last boom of the beetle, the last screech of the martin, the last loud laugh of
the field-workers borne over a hedge or two on the breeze, to the click and patter of these
absurd Frenchmen's tongues.

At last Clarissa bethought her of the hour, sprang up, carefully put away her volume--volumes
and verses were precious then--and began to pick her steps homewards. Ah! there had been a
wretch of a man looking at her--actually drawing her in his portfolio--the ugly fellow in the
waggon. Thank goodness, he could not have recognized her as his fellow-traveller; he had copied
the old farm-gate from the other side, and he could only have got a glimpse of her figure through
the bars with not so much as the crown of her hat above them. He had only put her in faithfully
by a line or two, and three dots, and he did not observe her now as she passed behind him and
scanned his performance ere she scampered off. But what a risk she had run of having her likeness
taken without her knowledge or consent, and carried about the country by a walking gentleman!

It was quite an adventure; yet how could Clary think it so when an earthquake and a whole town
burnt to ashes were nothing in her French novels! But, still true to the instinct of personality
which causes us to think a molehill in reference to our dear selves a world more momentous
and interesting than a mountain in reference to a princess of the blood-royal, stately Clarissa
flew off like a lapwing to tell Dulcie that she had just had such an escape, and hit on such
a discovery--she had found out all about the two fellows; they were a couple of painters. Marry!
it was a marvel to see the one so hearty, and the other so rosy. Doubtless they did not have
an odd penny in their purse between them.

Clarissa came too late; she encountered Dulcie running out to meet her, all alive with the
same news, only gathered in a more orthodox manner. The fair, soft lad, whom they had reckoned
a nincompoop, had shaken himself up in his companion's absence, and had offered his landlady
a drawing for his share of the dinner, "if you will score the value off the bill." And the
landlady had repeated the story to Cambridge and Dulcie when she showed the picture to them,
and expressed her conviction that the lad was far gone in the spleen--he seemed always in a
brown study; too quiet-like for a lad. She should have no peace in her mind about him if she
were in any way related to him. Bless her heart! he would sell another for something much less
than a crown.

Dulcie, all in a glow, had actually been chaffering with the painter for one of those wonderful
groups of luscious peaches, mellow pears, July flowers, and striped balsamine, singing birds
and fluttering insects, full of extravagant beauty. In the business, too, Dulcie had been by
far the more overcome of the two. The painter, roused to a job, had not cheated her; on the
contrary, he had been as usual a conscientious spendthrift of his powers. He had conducted
the negotiation in the plainest, manliest spirit, looking the eager girl in the face with his
blue eyes, and receiving her crown-piece in his hand, which was nobler than his face, inasmuch
as it was seamed with the action of his paints and tools, without a notion of anything unbecoming
or degrading.

The brother painter shook his head when he returned, and found what Will had been about in
his absence.

"Man, man, didn't I bargain that I was to pay for your company, and haven't I put you in the
worst bed, and allowed you the burnt meat and the sodden bread, and the valise to carry twice
as often as I took it myself, to satisfy your plaguy scruples? And yet you could go and scurvily
steal a march upon me the moment you were out of my sight! But," brightening immeasurably,
and bowing low, "you have certainly contrived what I had not the face to attempt--an introduction
to the ladies--although, no doubt, it was very simply done, and you are a very modest man,
as I do not need to tell them. Ladies, I am Sam Winnington, son of the late gallant Captain
Winnington, though I should not call him so; and this is Will Locke, the vagrant child of an
excellent man, engaged, I believe, in the bookselling and stationery trade. We are painters,
if it please you, on a tour in search of sketches and commissions. I beg to assure you, that
I do portraits on a great scale as well as a small, and Will sometimes does lions in the jungle,
as well as larks in a tuft of grass."

Cambridge was more posed than ever by the fresh advance included in this merry speech; but
the girls were quite of another mind, and took the matter forthwith into their own hands, as
is usual with the class, and bore down caution and experience, particularly when it proceeded
from their housekeeper. They liked the young man's congenial sense and spirit, they secretly
hankered after his vivacity; they were, with their dear woman's romance, all afire in three
minutes about pictures, gods, and goddesses, historic scenes, and even scratches in Indian
ink. A true woman and a painter are hand and glove at a moment's warning in any age. Cambridge
could but drop naturally into the background, and regard the constant puzzle, "How girls can
talk with fellows!"

The chance companions were once more packed into the waggon, pleasantly mixed together this
time, and away they trundled yet many weary miles by the sunset and the light of the moon.
The boughs in the horses' collars dangled brown, Cambridge and the waggoner nodded drowsily;
but, divine privilege of youth! the spirits of the lads and lasses only freshened as the long
day waned and they neared the goal. They were dramatis personæ on a moving stage, jesting like
country folks going to a fair. Even Will Locke was roused and lively as he answered Dulcie's
pertinacious, pertinent questions about the animal and vegetable life he loved so well; while
Dulcie, furtively remembering the landlady's suggestion, wondered, kind heart! if she could
use the freedom to mention to him that ground ivy was all but infallible in early stages of
the spleen, and that turnip broth might be relied on to check every incipient cough. Clarissa
was coquettish, Sam Winnington was gallant. With all the girls' mock heroism, and all their
arrogance and precision, trust me, girls and lads formed a free and friendly company in the end.

III.--REDWATER HOSPITALITY.

Clarissa and Dulcie did do the young men service in their calling. They said it would be a
shame not to help two such likely fellows (you know they had undauntedly set the one down as
a fright and the other as a goose in the morning); they were sure they were industrious and
worthy, and they would give bail for their honesty. So they spoke right and left to the few
influential families who were at Redwater of the two young painters, who by mere luck had come
with them in the waggon, had put up at the "Rod and Fly," and were waiting for commissions.
Had the Warrens or the Lorimers not heard of them? they would come bound they were a couple
of geniuses, from their conversation.

The old world grinned, and said to the girls' faces that the lasses had better not be too zealous
for the lads; they were generally fit to manage their own business, and something more into
the bargain. Uncle Barnet would not care to have his niece Clary fling herself away with her
tidy fortune on a walking gentleman, though he were a genius.

The result was that Dulcie "bridled" in a twitter of wounded faith and anger. Clarissa was
superb and scornful. She ordered a full-length portrait, and fixed the hour for the sitting
within the week. Dulcie set off alone with Master Will Locke--Dulcie, who knew no more of Redwater
than he should have done, if his wits had not been woolgathering--to find the meadow which
was beginning to purple over with the meadow saffron.

But for all the townspeople laughed at Mistress Clary's and Mistress Dulcie's flights, they
never dreamt of them as unbecoming or containing a bit of harm. Fine girls like Clary and Dulcie,
especially an accomplished girl like Clary, who could read French and do japan, besides working
to a wish in cross-stitch and tent-sketch, were not persons to be slighted. The inhabitants
saw for themselves that the painters had coats which were not out at elbows, and tongues, one
of which was always wagging, and the other generally at rest, but which never said a word fairly
out of joint. They needed no further introduction; the gentlemen called for the young men,
the ladies curtsied to them in the bar of the "Rod and Fly," in the church-porch, in the common
shop, and began conversations with them while they were chaffering at the same counter for
the same red ribbons to tie up the men and the women's hair alike; and they felt that their
manners were vastly polite and gracious, an opinion which was not far from the truth.

The Vicar lent the painters books. The Mayor invited them to supper. The nearest Justice, who
was a family man, with a notable wife, had them to a domestic party, where they heard a little
girl repeat a fable, and saw the little coach which the Justice had presented to his son and
heir, then in long clothes, in which he was to be drawn along the smooth oak boarded passages
of the paternal mansion as soon as he could sit upright.

Lastly, Clarissa Gage, under the sufficient guardianship of Cambridge, treated the strangers
to a real piece of sport--a hop on the washing-green, under her mulberry-tree. It commenced
at four o'clock in the afternoon, and ended with dusk and the bats, and a gipsy fire, and roasting
groats and potatoes in the hot ashes, in imitation of the freakish oyster supper which Clary
had attended in town.

Clary took care to have her six couples well assorted, and not to be severed till the merry-making
was over; she did not mind uniting herself to Master Sam Winnington, and Dulcie to Master Will
Locke--mind! the arrangement was a courteous compliment to the chief guests, and it gave continual
point to the entertainment. The company took a hilarious pleasure in associating the four two-and-two,
and commented openly on the distribution: "Mistress Clary is mighty condescending to this jackanapes."
"Mistress Dulcie and t'other form a genteel pair."

To be sure the two young men heard the remarks, which they might have taken as broad hints,
and the girls heard them too, uttered as they were without disguise; but so healthy were our
ancestors, that nobody was put out--not even soft, mooning Will Locke. Nothing came of it that
evening, unless a way Dulcie had of pressing her red lips together, throwing back her little
brown head, shaking out the powder from her curls, and shaking down the curls themselves, with
a gleeful laugh, which appeared to turn her own "bridling" into derision; and a high assertion
of Clary's that she was determined never to wed a man beneath the rank of a county member or
a peer. Now, really, after Clary had danced fifteen dances, and was about to dance other five,
without stopping, with a portrait painter, of her own free will, this was drawing a longish
and very unnecessary bow. But then Sam Winnington did not take it amiss or contradict her.
He said she was right, and he had no doubt she would keep her word, and there was a quick,
half-comic, half-serious gleam from the depths of his grey eyes which made Clarissa Gage look
more bashful and lovelier than any man had ever yet beheld her. Pity the member or the peer
could not have been that man!

Imagine the party after Mistress Cambridge had provided them with some of her favourite chickens,
and more substantial Dutch beef, with wet fruit and dry, cold Rhenish and sugar, and mulled
wine against the dew and damp feet, collecting merrily round the smoky fire, with little jets
of flame shooting up and flashing out on the six couples! Sam Winnington in his silk stockings
and points neatly trussed at the knee, was on all-fours poking the blue and red potatoes into
the glowing holes. Another man with rough waggishness suddenly stirred the fire with an oak
branch, and sent a shower of sparks like rockets into the dark blue sky, but so near that it
caused the women to recoil, screaming and hiding their faces on convenient shoulders, and lodged
half-a-dozen instruments of ignition and combustion in Sam Winnington's hair, singeing it and
scorching his ears. Had Sam not been the best-natured and most politic fellow in the world,
he would have dragged the aggressor by the collar or the cuff over the smoking crackling wood,
and made the ladies shriek in greater earnest.

There was the strange ruddy light now on this face, now on that--on Will Locke's as he overturned
a shovel of groats at Dulcie's feet, and on Dulcie's, so eager to cover his blunder, that she
quite forgot the circumstances of the case, and never came to herself till she had burnt all
the five tips of her rosy fingers catching the miller's pearls. Then Will Locke was so sorry,
stroked the fingers so daintily, hung upon Cambridge so beseechingly, imploring her to prepare
a cool mash for Mistress Dulcie's finger points, the moment they were all gone--that Dulcie
could have cried for his tenderness of heart, and quickness and keenness of remorse.

Conjure up the whole fourteen--the Vicar and Cambridge of the number--when the fire had sunk
white in ashes, when they could scarcely see each other's faces, and only guess each other's
garments, having a round at "Puss in the corner," running here and rushing there, seizing this
shoulder-knot, holding tight like a child by that skirt, drawing up, pulling back, whirling
round all blowsy, all panting, all faint with fun and laughter, and the roguish familiarity
which yet thought no evil. Very romping, was it not? very hoydenish? yes certainly. Very improper?
by no means. It was practised by dignitaries of the Church, still more classic than the Vicar
scuttling and ducking after Cambridge (you never saw the like), and by the pink and pride of
English womanhood.

Redwater was hospitable to these painter lads, as we understand hospitality, unquestionably,
ungrudgingly hospitable; but it was more than hospitable to them, it was profitable to them
in a pecuniary sense, without which great test of its merits they could not long have tarried
within its bounds. They were neither fools nor hypocrites to pretend to be clean indifferent
to the main chance.

The Vicar fancied a likeness of himself in his surplice, which his parishioners might buy and
engrave, if they had a mind to preserve his lineaments when he was no longer among them. The
Justice took a notion to have his big girls and his little girls, his boy and nurse, his wife,
and himself as the sheltering stem of the whole young growth, in one canvas.

But the great achievement was Sam Winnington's picture of Clarissa, "not as a crazy Kate this
time," she told him saucily, "but myself in my hair and brocade, to show what a grand lady
I can be." Thus Clarissa dressed herself out in one of those magnificent toilettes all in the
autumn mornings, and sat there in state for hours, for the sole benefit of posterity, unless
Sam Winnington was to reap a passing advantage by the process. Clarissa in her brocade, with
the stiff body and the skirt standing on end, her neckerchief drawn through the straps of her
bodice, her bouquet pinned, "French fashion," on her side; surely that picture was a masterpiece.
So speaking was the copy of her deep brown hair, her soft, proud cheek, the wave of her ripe
red lips, that a tame white pigeon, accustomed to sit on her shoulder, flew into the window
right at the canvas, and, striking against the hard, flat surface, fell fluttering and cooing
in consternation to the ground. If that was not an acknowledgment of the limner's fidelity,
what could be?

Clary, in person, played my lady very well, reclining in her father's great chair. Her hall
was roomy enough; it had its space for Sam Winnington's easel as well as Clary's harpsichord,
and, what was more useful, her spinning-wheel, besides closets and cupboards without number.
Sam Winnington entertained Clarissa; he was famous in years to come for keeping his sisters
in good humour. He told her of the academy and the president's parties, of the public gardens
and the wild beast shows; and how the Princesses had their trains borne as they crossed the
park. He asked her what quality in herself she valued the most; and owned that he was hugely
indebted to his coolness. When his colours were not drying fast enough, he read her a page
or two of grand heroic reading from Pope's 'Homer' about Agamemnon and Achilles, Helen and
Andromache; when she tired of that he was back again to the sparkling gossip of the town, for
he was a brilliant fellow, with a clear intellect and a fine taste; and he had stored up and
arranged elegantly on the shelves of his memory all the knowledge that was current, and a little
more besides.

When he was gone, Clary would meditate what powers of conversation he had, and consider rather
glumly how she would miss the portrait painter when he migrated to his native air, the town;
how dull Redwater would be; how another face would soon supplant hers on the canvas! He had
shown her others in his portfolio quite as blooming and dignified, though he had tumbled them
carelessly over; and so he would treat hers when another's was fresh before him. Clary would
be restless and cross at her own suppositions; for where is the use of being a beauty and a
wit if one must submit to be either forgotten or beaten, even by a portrait painter?

In the meantime, the Vicar also wanted a facsimile of his hayfield, as it looked when the haymakers
were among the tedded grass, or under the Redwater ash-trees, to present him with a pleasant
spectacle within, now that the bleak autumn was coming on, and there would be nothing without
but soaked or battered ground, dark skies, and muddy or snowy ways. The Mayor desired a pig-sty,
with the most charming litter of little black and white pigs, as nice as guinea-pigs, and their
considerably coarser grunting mamma, done to hand. He was a jolly, prosaic man, Master Mayor,
very proud of his prosaicness, as you rarely see a real man of his poetry: he maintained, though
Mrs. Mayor nearly swooned at the idea, that he would sooner have a pig-sty than a batch of
heroes. Perhaps the heroes of Master Mayor's day had sometimes wallowed in the mire to suggest
the comparison. And Clarissa Gage would have her bower done--her clematis bower before the
leaves were brown and shrivelled and there only remained the loving spindle-shanked stems clinging
faithfully to the half-rotten framework which they could no longer clothe with verdure.

What a bower Will Locke made of Clary's bower! as unique as Sam Winnington's portrait of Clary
herself. It was not the literal bower; and it would not have suited Master Mayor or the Justice,
though it might have had a charm for the Vicar. We will go with the Vicar; although he also
had his bombast, and, when elevated by company and cheer, denominated Cambridge a goddess,
and raised in the poor woman's breast expectations never to be realized. We don't altogether
approve that wonderful bit of work, but we like it. There never were such deep damask roses
as hung over the trellis, there never were such flaming sunflowers, or pure white lilies as
looked in at the sides. Squirrels don't frequent garden bowers unless they are tamed and chained
by the leg. Our robin redbreasts are in the fields in summer, and do not perch on boughs opposite
speckled thrushes when they can get abundance of worms and flies among the barley. We have
not little green lizards at large in England; the only one ever seen at Redwater was in the
apothecary's bottle. Still what a bower that is! What a blushing, fluttering bower, trilling
with song, glancing and glowing with the bronze mail of beetles and the softened glory of purple
emperors! What a thing it was to examine; how you could look in and discover afresh, and dwell
for five minutes at a time on that hollow petal of a flower steeped in honey, on that mote
of a ladybird crawling to its couch of olive moss.

Dulcie was speechless with admiration before this vision of Clarissa's bower. Heigho! it was
an enchanted bower to Dulcie as to Will Locke. It was veritably alive to him, and he could
tell her the secrets of that life. What perfume the rose was shedding--he smelt it about his
palette; what hour of the clock the half-closed sunflower was striking; whence the robin and
the thrush had come, and what bean fields they had flown over, and what cottage doors they
had passed; of what the lizard was dreaming in south or east as he turned over on his slimy
side--all were plain to him.

Ostensibly Dulcie was taking lessons from Will Locke in flower-painting, for Dulcie had a delicate
hand and a just eye for colours, and the sweetest, natural fondness for this simple, common,
beautiful world. And Will Locke was a patient, indulgent teacher. He was the queerest mixture
of gentleness and stubbornness, shyness and confidence, reserve and candour. He claimed little
from other people, he exacted a great deal from himself. He was the most retiring lad in society,
backward and out of place; he was free with Dulcie as a girl of her own stamp could be. He
had the most unhesitating faith in his own ability, he relied on it as on an inspiration, he
talked of it to Dulcie, he impressed it upon her until he infected her with his own credulity
until she believed him to be one of the greatest painters under the sun. She credited his strangest
imagination, and that quiet lad had the fancy of a prince of dreamers.

In the end Dulcie was humble and almost awed in Will Locke's presence. Now here comes the sign
of Dulcie's innate beauty of character. Had Dulcie been a commonplace, coarse girl, she would
have been wearied, aggrieved, fairly disgusted by Will Locke in three days. But Dulcie was
brimfull of reverence, she was generous to the ends of her hair, she liked to feel her heart
in her mouth with admiration.

The truth of the matter was, Dulcie would have been fain to lift up Will Locke's pencil as
they pretend Cæsar served Titian, to clean his palette, gather flowers for him, busk them into
a nosegay, preserve them in pure water, and never steal the meanest for her own use. Will Locke
was her saint, Dulcie was quite ready to be absorbed in his beams. Well for her if they did
not scorch her, poor little moth!

Oh! Dulcie, Dulcie, your friends could not have thought it of you--not even Clary, tolerably
misled on her own account, would have believed you serious in your enamourment, though you
had gone down on your knees and sworn it to them. It was nothing but the obliging humour of
Mistress Dulcie and the single-heartedness of the youth; still even in this mild view of the
case, if their friends had paid proper attention to them, they would have counselled Dulcie
to abide more securely by her chair covers, and my simple man to stick more closely to his
card or his ivory, his hedges or his hurdles.

Sometimes, late as the season was, Will Locke and Dulcie went out picking their steps in search
of plants and animals, and it was fortunate for Dulcie that she could pull her mohair gown
through her pocket-holes, and tuck her mob-cap under her chin beneath her hat, for occasionally
the boisterous wind lifted that trifling appendage right into the air, and deposited it over
a wall or a fence, and Will Locke was not half so quick as Dulcie in tracing the region of
its flight, neither was he so active, however willing, in recovering the truant. Why, Dulcie
found his own hat for him, and put it on his head to boot one day. He had deposited it on a
stone, that he might the better look in the face a dripping rock, shaded with plumes of fern
and tufts of grass, and formed into mosaic by tiny sprays of geranium faded into crimson and
gold. It was a characteristic of Will that while he was so fanciful in his interpretation,
the smallest, commonest text sufficed him. The strolls of these short autumn days were never
barren of interest and advantage to him. The man carried his treasures within himself; he only
needed the slightest touchstone from the outside world to draw them out. A fieldmouse's nest
was nearly as good to him as an eagle's eyrie, an ox-eyed daisy as a white rose, a red hemp-nettle
as a foxglove. He put down his hat and stood contemplating the bit of rock, until every morsel
of leaf told him its tale, and then proceeded to fill his pockets and hands with what the poorest
country boy would have deemed the veriest weeds; and at last he would have faced round, and
marched home, unconscious that his fair hair, bleached like a child's, was undefended from
a pitiless shower impending over his head. Dulcie lingered dutifully behind, picked up that
three-cornered hat timidly, called his attention to his negligence, and while he stooped with
the greatest ease in life, she, bashfully turning her eyes another way, finally clapped the
covering on his crown, as a mother bonnets her child.

IV.--OTHER CASTS FOLLOWING THE CAST IN THE WAGGON.

Clary and Dulcie were slightly censured for their officiousness in the affairs of these painter
fellows: but it is in the nature of women not to take well with contradiction: it is in the
nature of good women to fly furiously in the face of whatever crosses their generosity, or
thwarts their magnanimity.

The crisis came about in this way: Will Locke had finished his work long before Sam; not that
Will was more industrious, but he had not got half the commissions at only half the price,
and that was about the usual division of labour between them. The two men were born to it.
Sam's art took the lucrative shape of portrait-painting; Will's the side of flower and fruit
and landscape painting, which was vilely unremunerative then, and allegorical painting, which
no one will be at the pains to understand, or, what is more to the purpose, to buy, in this
enlightened nineteenth century. Sam, who was thriving already, fell in love with Clarissa Gage,
with her six thousand pounds fortune: there was no premeditation, or expediency, or cunning,
in the matter; it was the luck of the man. But Will Locke could never have done it: he, who
could never make a clear subsistence for himself, must attach himself to a penniless, cheery,
quick little girl like Dulcie; and where he could not well maintain one, must provide for two
at the lowest estimate. Will Locke was going, and there was no talk of his return; Dulcie was
helping him to put up his sketches with her orderly, ready, and respectful hands.

"When we are parted for good, I shall miss you," he said, simply.

Her tender heart throbbed with gratitude, but she only answered, "Are we to be parted for good?
Will you never come back to Redwater?"

"I cannot come back like Sam," he affirmed, sadly, not bitterly; "I am not a rising man, Dulcie,
though I may paint for future ages."

A bright thought struck Dulcie, softening and warming her girlish face, till it was like one
of those faces which look out of Fra Angelico's pictures, and express what we are fond of talking
about--adoration and beneficence: "Could I paint for the potteries, Master Locke?" For, in
his noble thriftless way, he had initiated her into some of the very secrets of his tinting,
and Dulcie was made bold by the feats she had achieved.

"What should set you labouring on paltry porringers?--you are provided with your bit and sup,
Mistress Dulcie."

"I thought it might be fine to help a great painter like you," confessed the gentle lass; very
gently, with reluctance and pain, for it was wrung by compulsion from her maidenliness.

"Do you think so? I love you for thinking it," he said directly: but he would never have done
so, brave as he was in his fantasies, without her drawing him on.

However, after that speech, there was no further talk of their parting for good: indeed, Dulcie
would do her part; and slave at these "mugs and pigs" to any extent; and all for a look of
his painting before he quitted the easel of nights; a walk, hanging upon his arm, up Primrose
Hill; a seat by his side on the Sundays in the city church where he worshipped. Dulcie did
not care to trouble her friends at home with the matter: instead, she had a proud vision of
surprising them with the sight of--her husband. "They would be for waiting till they could
spare money to buy more clothes, or perhaps a chest of drawers; they could not afford it; no
more could Will find means to fly up and down the country. Father dear will be pleased to see
him so temperate: he cannot drink more than a glass of orange-wine, or a sip of cherry-brandy;
he says it makes his head ache: he prefers the clear, cold water, or at most a dish of chocolate.
Mother may jeer at him as unmanly; she has a fine spirit, mother: and she may think I might
have done better; but mother has grown a little mercenary, and forgotten that she was once
young herself, and would have liked to have served a great genius with such a loving heart
and such blue eyes as Will's. Ah! the girls will all envy me, when they get a glance from Will's
blue eyes: and let them, for he is too good a fellow to look at anybody but his poor ordinary
silly wife, and if he did, the odds are that he would not see them: could not see whether their
hair were black or red. Ah me! I am not sure whether Will always sees me--poor me--and not
one of his angels from paradise."

But Dulcie did mean to tell Clary, and to ask her what she would advise her to wear for her
wedding-gown, and whether she and Sam Winnington would be best maid and best man. But Clary
put her foot through the plan neatly. Clary was in one of her vapourish moods when she inquired
one night, "Is Will Locke coming down again, Dulcie? Oh! what ever is he seeking here? What
more can we do for him? Nobody wants any more sheep or goats (were they sheep or goats, Dulcie?),
or strawberries and currants, unless as mutton, and kid, and preserves. And, Dulcie, you must
not stand in your own light, and throw away any more notice upon him; it is wasting your time,
and the word of him may keep away others. A match with him would be purely preposterous: even
Sam Winnington, who is a great deal more of a scamp, my dear, treats him as a sublime simpleton."

What induced Clary to attempt to lock the stable after the steed was stolen? What drove her
off all of a sudden on this dreadfully candid and prudent tack? She only knew. Possibly it
was to ease her own troubled conscience: but with Sam Winnington constantly dangling about
her skirts, and receiving sufficient encouragement, too, it was hard for Dulcie to bear. She
was in a fine passion; she would not tell Clary, after that round of advice; no, not a word.
How did she know what Clary would do next? Perhaps forbid Will the house, when he came back
from London with the licence, lock her into a room, and write an evil report to her friends?
No, Dulcie could keep her own counsel: she was sorry to live in Clary's house, and eat the
bread of deceit, but she would not risk Will's happiness as well as her own.

Will Locke reappeared on the scene within a fortnight. The lad did not tell Dulcie, though,
that he had walked the most of the way, and that he had rendered himself footsore, in order
to be able to count out Dulcie's modest expenses up to town, and perhaps a month's housekeeping
beforehand: for that was the extent of his outlook. Will Locke appointed the Vicar to meet
him and a young woman in Redwater church, the very morning after his return: there was no use
in delay, except to melt down the first money he had hoarded; and Will and Dulcie were like
two children, eager to have the business over and done with, and not to do again by the same
parties. The Vicar was quite accustomed to these sudden calls, and he submitted to them with
a little groan. He did not know who the young woman might be, and he did not care; it might
be Mistress Cambridge, it might be Mistress Clarissa herself, it might be the still-room maid,
or the barmaid at the "Rod and Fly;" it was all one to him. As for the young painter fellow,
the quiet lads were as likely to slip into these scrapes as the rattles; indeed, the chances
were rather against them: the Vicar was inclined to cry, "Catch Mr. Sam Winnington in such
a corner." But the Vicar was in no way responsible for a youth who was not even his own parishioner;
he was not accountable for his not having worldly goods wherewith to endow the young woman
whom he was to lead to the altar. Oddly enough, though worldly goods are undoubtedly introduced
into the service, there are no accompanying awkward questions: such as, "What are your worldly
goods, M.?" or, "Have you any worldly goods, M.?" The Vicar did not care at all, except for
his incipient yawns, and his disordered appetite; he was a rebuke to gossips.

When the hour came, Dulcie was distressed: not about wrongdoing, for the girl had no more idea
that she was doing wrong than you have when you write a letter on your own responsibility,
and at your own dictation; not at the absence of friends, for in Dulcie's day friends were
considered very much in the way on such occasions. Indeed, the best accredited and most popular
couples would take a start away from their companions and acquaintances, and ride ten miles
or so to be married privately, and so escape all ceremony. Dulcie was troubled by the want
of a wedding-gown; yes, a wedding-gown, whether it is to wear well or not, is to a woman what
a wig is to a barrister, what a uniform is to a soldier. Dulcia's had no existence, not even
in a snip; no one could call a half-worn sacque a wedding-gown, and not even her mother's tabby
could be brought out for fear of observation. Only think! a scoured silk: how could Dulcie
"bridle" becomingly in a scoured silk? There would have been a certain inappropriateness in
its shabbiness in the case of one who had done with the vanities of this world: but a scoured
silk beside bridal blushes!--alas, poor Dulcie!

In every other respect, there appears something touching as well as humorous in that primitive
marriage-party on the grey October morning, with the autumn sunbeams, silver not golden, faintly
brightening the yellowing vine, over the sexton's house, and the orange and grey lichens, the
only ornaments outside the solid old church, with its low, heavy Saxon arches. The Vicar bowed
with ceremony, and with a dignified and deliberate air, as he recognised Mistress Dulcie; the
old clerk and his wrinkled wife stumbled into an apprehension that it was Mistress Clarissa
Gage's friend who was to have the knot tied all by herself so early: but it was nothing to
them either--nothing in comparison with the Christmas dole. The lad and lass so trustful, so
isolated, making such a tremendous venture, deserved to have the cheery sunshine on their lot,
if only for their faith and firmness.

When it was over, Dulcie plucked Will's sleeve, to turn him into the vestry. One must be the
guide if not the other, and "it's main often the woman," the old clerk would tell you, with
a toothless grin.

Then Dulcie went with Will straight to the "Rod and Fly;" for such was the established rule.
These occurrences were so frequent, that they had their etiquette cut out for them. From the
"Rod and Fly" Will and Dulcie sent the coolest and most composed, the most perfectly reasonable
and polite of messages, to say they had got married together that morning, and that Mistress
Cambridge need not have the trouble of keeping breakfast for Mistress Dulcie. A separate apology
was sent from Dulcie for not having procured the watercresses which she was to have sought
for Cambridge. Further, Mr. and Mrs. Will Locke would expect all of their friends who approved
of the step they had taken to come to the "Rod and Fly," and offer their congratulations and
drink their healths that morning without fail; as the young couple had to start by the very
waggon in which they had first set eyes on each other. "Think of that, Will!" Dulcie had exclaimed,
breathlessly, as if she was calling his notice to a natural phenomenon. They had now to ask
and receive Dulcie's parents' blessing before they began housekeeping in Will's lodgings in
London, on the strength of a month's prices with future orders and outwork from the potteries.
Oh! these old easy beginnings! What have we gained by complicating them?

Will Locke and Dulcie had cast the die, and, on the first brush of the affair, their friends
at Redwater took it as ill as possible: Clarissa was hysterical, Sam Winnington was as sulky
as a bear. If this treatment were to be regarded as a foreshadowing of what the behaviour of
the authorities at Fairfax would prove, then the actors in the little drama might shake in
their shoes. But Will Locke placidly stood the storm they had brewed, only remembering in years
to come some words which Dulcie did not retain for a sun-down. Dulcie was now affronted and
hurt, now steady as a stepping-stone and erect as a sweet-pea, when either of the two assailants
dared to blame Will, or to imply that he should have refrained from this mischief. Why, what
could Will have done? What could she have done without him? She was not ashamed to ask that,
the moment they reflected upon Will Locke, though she had not borne his name an hour. Oh! child,
child!

Notwithstanding, it was very trying to Dulcie when Clary protested that she never would have
believed that Dulcie could have stolen such a march upon her; never. Dulcie to deceive her!
Dulcie to betray her! Poor Clary! Whom could she turn to for affection and integrity, in the
days that might remain to her in this wicked world? She had walked all along the street with
its four or five windows in every gable turned to the thoroughfare, with her handkerchief at
her eyes, while the whole town was up, and each window full. She was so spent now, with her
exertions and her righteous indignation, that she sat fanning herself in the bar: for Will
and Dulcie could not even afford a private room to receive their wedding company so summarily
assembled. Never was such a business, in Clary's opinion; not that she had not often heard
of its like--but to happen to a kind, silly, credulous pair, such as Dulcie and Will Locke!
Clary sat fanning herself, and casting knots on her pocket-handkerchief, and glancing quickly
at Sam Winnington's gloomy, dogged face, so different from the little man's wonted bland, animated
countenance. What on earth could make Sam Winnington take the wilful deed so much to heart?
Hear him rating Will, whom he had been used to patronize in a careless, gracious style, but
upon whom he now turned in strong resentment. These reproaches were not unprovoked, but they
were surely out of bounds; and their matter and manner rankled in the breasts of both these
men many a day after they had crossed the Rubicon, and travelled far into the country on whose
borders they were still pressing.

"You have disgraced yourself and me, sir! You have gone far to ruin the two of us! People will
credit us of the same stock: a pair of needy and reckless adventurers!"

"Master Winnington, I was willing: I could do what I liked with myself without your leave;
and I suppose Will Locke was equally independent," fired up Dulcie.

"We'll never be mistaken for the same grain, Sam Winnington," declared Will Locke, with something
like disdain. "I always knew that we were clean different: and the real substance of the wood
will come out more and more distinctly, now that the mere bark is rubbed off."

Clary was modified at last; she kissed and sobbed over Dulcie, wished her joy sincerely, half
promised to visit her in town, and slipped a posy ring from her own hand to the bride's, on
the very finger where Will Locke had the face to put the marriage-ring which wedded a comely,
sprightly, affectionate young woman to struggles and disappointments, and a mad contest between
spirit and matter. But Sam Winnington would not so much as shake hands with Will; though he
did not bear any malice against Dulcie, and would have kissed her fingers if she would have
allowed it: and the young men, erstwhile comrades, looked so glumly and grimly at each other,
that it was a universal relief when the great waggon drew up at the inn door.

Dulcie, in another character now, and that even before the fall of the russet leaves--half
ashamed but very proud, the little goose! of the quick transformation--stepped into the waggon;
the same boxes were piled beside her; Will leapt in after her, and away they rolled. There
was nothing more for Dulcie to do but to wave her hand to Clary and Cambridge, and the women
of the inn (already fathoms deep in her interest), and to realize that she was now a married
woman, and had young Will Locke the great painter, in his chrysalis state, to look after.

But why was Sam Winnington so irate? He had never looked sweet on Dulcie for half a second.
Was it not rather that a blundering dreamer like Will Locke had anticipated him, marred his
tactics, and fatally injured his scientific game? Sam came dropping down upon Redwater whenever
he could find leisure, when the snow was on the ground, or when the peaches were plump and
juicy, for the next two or three years. If he had not been coming on finely in his profession,
heightening his charges five guineas at a time, and if Clary had not possessed that six thousand
pounds' fortune, they would have done off the matter in a trice, like Will Locke and Dulcie
Cowper. Poor Sam! poor Clary!--what an expenditure of hours and days and emotions, they contrived
for themselves! They were often wretched! and they shook each other's faith: it is doubtful
if they ever quite recovered it. They were so low occasionally that it must have been dreadfully
difficult for them to get up again; they were so bitter that how they became altogether sweet
once more, without any lingering remains of the acrid flavour in their mouths, is scarcely
to be imagined. They were good and true in their inmost hearts; but it does appear that some
of the tricks of which they were guilty left them less honest human creatures. There was a
strong dash of satire in Sam's fun afterwards; there was a sharpness in Clary's temper, and
a despotism in her dignity. To be sure, Clary always liked Sam's irony a thousand times better
than another man's charity, and Sam ever thought Clary's impatient, imperious ways far before
the cooing of any turtle-dove in the wood; but that was only an indication that the real metal
was there, not that it was not smirched and corroded with rust.

The first effect of Will and Dulcie's exploit was extremely prejudicial to the second case
on the books. Uncle Barnet, a flourishing London barrister, a man with strong lines about his
mouth, a wart on his forehead, and great laced flaps at his coat pockets, and who was supposed
to be vehemently irresistible in the courts, hurried down to Redwater on purpose to overhaul
Clary. What sort of doings were those she presided over in her maiden house at Redwater? Not
the runaway marriage of a companion; that occurred every day in the most polite circles; Clary
could not fairly be called to account for such a trifle; besides, a girl without a penny might
do as she chose. But there was something a vast deal more scandalous lurking in the background:
there was word of another fellow of the same kidney buzzing about Clary--Clary with her six
thousand pounds' fortune, her Uncle Barnet, her youth, her handsome person, her what not? Now,
as sure as Uncle Barnet's name was Barnet, as he wore a wig, as there was justice in the country,
he would have the law of the fellow. Don't tell him the man was advancing rapidly in his profession.
What was a painter's profession?--or the son of a gallant Captain Winnington? If a gallant
Captain Winnington could do nothing more than gallant, he did not deserve the name; it was
a piece of fudge to cheat foolish women with. Yes; he would have the law of the fellow if he
buzzed about his niece; he would have the law of Clary if she encouraged him.

What could Clary do? she had been taught to look up to Uncle Barnet; she had seen polite society
under his wife's wing; she had obeyed him at once as her Mentor and her Mæcenas--as her father
and prime-minister. She cried and kissed his hand, and promised not to forget her position,
and to be a good girl; and as she was not engaged to Sam Winnington, and did not know for certain
that he would return to Redwater for the grass-mowing or the hop-gathering, she thought she
might be free to promise also that she would not see him again with her will. Of course, she
meant to keep her word if she might; but there are two at a bargain-making: and observe, she
said "with her will;" she made no reference to Sam Winnington's pleasure. And yet, arrogant
as Clary could be on her worst side, she had found her own intentions and purposes knocked
down by Sam Winnington's determinations before now.

When Sam Winnington did come down next, Clary had such honour and spirit, that she ordered
the door to be shut in his face; but then she cried far more bitterly than she had done to
Uncle Barnet, in the same hall where Sam had painted her and jested with her; and somehow her
affliction reached Sam's ears, living in a little place like Redwater at the "Rod and Fly"
for several days on end.

At last another spice entered into the dish; another puppet appeared on the boards, and increased
the disorder of the former puppets. The county member did turn up. Clary was a prophet: he
came on a visit to his cousin the Justice, and was struck with tall, red and white, and large-eyed
Clary; he furbished up an introduction, and offered her the most marked attention.

Mistress Clarissa was in ecstasy, so her gossips declared, and so she almost persuaded herself,
even after she had certain drawbacks to her pleasure, and certain cares intruding upon her
exultation; after she was again harassed and pestered with the inconvenient resuscitation of
that incorrigible little plain, vain portrait painter, Sam Winnington. He was plain--he had
not the county member's Roman nose; and he was vain--Clary had already mimicked the fling of
his cravat, and the wave of his white hands. Clever, smart fellows, like Sam Winnington, are
generally coxcombs. Oh, Sam! where, in order to serve your own turn now, be your purple shadows,
your creamy whites, your marvellous reading of people's characters, and writing of the same
on their faces, their backs, their very hands and feet, which should leave the world your delighted
debtor long after it had forgotten yon member's mighty services?

Clarissa had never danced so many dances with one evening's partner as with the smitten member,
at the assembly given on the spur of the moment in his honour, whereat Sam Winnington, standing
with his hat under his arm, and leaning against the carved door, was an observant spectator.
He was not sullen as when Will Locke and Dulcie tumbled headlong into the pit of matrimony!
he was smiling and civil; but his lips were white and his eyes sunken, as if the energetic
young painter did not sleep of nights.

Clary was not sincere; she gave that infatuated, tolerably heavy, red-faced, fox-hunting member,
own cousin to the Justice, every reason to suppose that she would lend him the most favourable
ear, when he chose to pay her his addresses, and then afforded him the amplest provocation
to cry, "Caprice--thy name is woman." She had just sung "Tantivy" to him after supper, when
she sailed up to Sam Winnington, and addressed him demurely:--

"I have come to wish you good-night, sir."

"And I to wish you farewell, madam."

"Farewell is a hard word, Master Winnington," returned Clary, with a great tide of colour rushing
into her face, and a gasp as for breath, and tracing figures nervously on the floor with her
little shoe and its brave paste-buckle.

"It shall be said though, and that without further delay, unless three very different words
be put in its place."

"Sir, you are tyrannous," protested Clary, in a tremulous voice.

"No, Mistress Clarissa, I have had too good cause to know who has been the tyrant in this business,"
declared Sam Winnington, speaking out roundly, as a woman loves to hear a man, though it be
to her own condemnation, "You have used me cruelly, Clarissa Gage; you have abused my faith,
wasted the best years of my life, and deceived my affections."

"What were the three words," asked Clary, faint and low.

"'Yours, Sam Winnington;' or else, 'Farewell, Clarissa Gage?'"

"Yours, Sam Winnington."

He caught her so sharp up by the arm at that sentence, that some persons said Mistress Clarissa
had staggered and was about to swoon; others, that the vulgar fellow of a painter had behaved
like a brute, pulled her to his side as she was marching past him, and accused her of perjury
before the whole ball-room. Bold men were apt at that time to seize aggravating women (especially
if they were the wives of their bosoms) by the hairs of their heads, so that a trifling rudeness
was little thought of. The county member, however, pricked up his long ears, flushed, fiercely
stamped to the particular corner, and had a constable in his eye to arrest the beggarly offender;
but before he could get at the disputants, he had the mortification to see them retreat amicably
into a side room, and the next thing announced to him was, that Mistress Clarissa had evanished
home, before anybody could get rightly at the bottom of the mystery.

Very fortunately, the county member ascertained the following day, before he had compromised
his pride another hair's-breadth, that the fickle damsel had accepted the painter's escort
the previous evening, and had admitted the painter at an incredibly early hour the subsequent
morning. After such indiscretion, the great man would have nothing more to say to Mistress
Clarissa, but departed in great dudgeon, and would never so much as set his foot within Redwater
again; not even at the following election.

Uncle Barnet was forced to come round and acknowledge, with a very bad grace, that legislation
in heiresses' marriages--in any marriage--is out of the question. No man knew how a marriage
would turn out; you might as well pledge yourself for the weather next morning; certainly there
were signs for the wise; but were weather almanacs deceptive institutions or were they not?
The innocent old theory of marriages being made in heaven was the best. Clary was not such
a mighty catch after all: a six thousand pounds' fortune was not inexhaustible, and the county
member might never have come the length of asking its owner's price. People did talk of a foolish
engagement in his youth to one of his yeomen's daughters, and of a wealthy old aunt who ruled
the roast; though her well-grown nephew, not being returned for a rotten borough, voted with
dignity for so many thousands of his fellow-subjects in the Commons. Uncle Barnet, with a peculiarly
wry face, did reluctantly what he did not often advise his clients to do, unless in desperate
circumstances--he compromised.

Clary was made a wife in the height of summer, with all the rites and ceremonies of the Church,
with all the damasks, and laces, and leadings by the tips of the fingers, and lavishings of
larkspurs, lupins, and tiger-lilies proper for the occasion, which Dulcie had lost. Nay, the
supper came off at the very "Rod and Fly," with the tap open to the roaring, jubilant public;
a score of healths were drunk upstairs with all the honours, the bride and bridegroom being
king and queen of the company: even Uncle Barnet owned that Sam Winnington was very complaisant--rather
exceed in his complaisance, he supplemented scornfully; but surely Sam might mend that fault
with others in the bright days to come. It is only the modern English who act Hamlet minus
the Prince of Denmark; sitting at the bridal feast without bride or bridegroom. They say hearts
are often caught on the rebound, and if all ill-treated suitors spoke out warmly yet sternly
like Sam Winnington, and did not merely fence about and either sneer or whine, more young fools
might be saved, even when at touch-and-go with their folly, after the merciful fate of Clary
and to the benefit of themselves and of society.

V.--DULCIE AND WILL, AT HOME IN ST. MARTIN'S LANE.

While Sam and Clarissa were fighting the battles of vanity and the affections down in the southern
shire in quite a rural district, among mills and ash-trees, and houses with gardens and garden
bowers, William and Dulcie were combating real flesh-and-blood woes--woes that would not so
much set your teeth on edge, as soften and melt your tough, dry heart--among the bricks and
mortar of London. These several years were not light sunshiny years to the young couple. It
is of no use saying that a man may prosper if he will, and that he has only to cultivate potatoes
and cabbages in place of jessamine and passion flowers; no use making examples of Sir Joshua
and Vandyke, and telling triumphantly that they knew their business and did it simply--only
pretending to get a livelihood and satisfy the public to the best of their ability, but ending
in becoming great painters. One man's meat is another man's poison; one man's duty is not his
neighbour's. When shall we apprehend or apply that little axiom? The Duchess of Portland killed
three thousand snails in order that she might complete the shell-work for which she received
so much credit; Dulcie would not have put her foot voluntarily on a single snail for a pension.

It was Will Locke's fate to vibrate between drudgery and dreaming; always tending more inevitably
towards the latter, and lapsing into more distant, absorbing trances, till he became more and
more fantastic and unearthly, with his thin light hair, his half-transparent cheek, and his
strained eyes. To prophesy on cardboard and canvas, in flower and figure, with monster and
star, crescent and triangle, in emerald green and ruby red and sea blue, in dyes that, like
those of the Bassani, resembled the clear shining of a handful of jewels, to prophesy in high
art, to be half pitied, half derided, and to starve: was that Will Locke's duty?

Will thought so, in the most artless, unblemished, unswerving style; and he was a devout fellow
as well as a gifted one. He bowed to revelation, and read nature's secrets well before he forsook
her for heaven, or rather Hades. He devoted himself to the sacrifice; he did not grudge his
lust of the eye, his lust of the flesh, his pride of life. He devoted Dulcie, not without pangs;
and he devoted his little sickly children pining and dying in St. Martin's Lane. He must follow
his calling, he must fulfil his destiny.

Dulcie was not quite such an enthusiast; she did love, honour, and obey Will Locke, but she
was sometimes almost mad to see him such a wreck. It had been a sent evil, and she had looked
down into the gulf; but she had missed the depths. She had never seen its gloomy, dark, dreary
nooks, poor lass! in her youthful boldness and lavishness; and our little feminine Curtius
in the scoured silk, with the powdered brown curls, had not merely to penetrate them in one
plunge, but had to descend, stumbling and groping her way, and starting back at the sense of
confinement, the damp and the darkness. Who will blame her that she sometimes turned her head
and looked back, and stretched up her arms from the desert to the flesh-pots of Egypt? She
would have borne anything for her husband; and she did work marvels: she learned to engrave
for him, coloured constantly with her light, pliant fingers, and drew and painted from old
fresh memories those articles of stoneware for the potteries. She clothed herself in the cheapest
and most lasting of printed linen sacques and mob caps, and hoods and aprons, fed herself and
him and the children on morsels wellnigh miraculously. She even swallowed down the sight of
Clary in her cut velvet and her own coach, whose panel Sam Winnington himself had not thought
it beneath him to touch up for Clary's delectation and glory. If Will would only have tarried
longer about his flowers and bees, and groves and rattlesnakes: if he had even stopped short
at faces like those of Socrates, Cæsar, Cleopatra, Fair Rosamond--what people could understand
with help--and not slid off faster and more fatally into that dim delirium of good and evil,
angels and archangels, the devil of temptation and the goblin of the flesh, the red fiend of
war, and the pale spirit of peace!

The difference which originated at Will and Dulcie's marriage had ended in alienation. Dulcie
thought that Sam Winnington would have bridged it over at one time, if Will would have made
any sign of meeting his overtures, or acknowledged Sam's talents and fortune: nay, even if
Will had refrained from betraying his churlish doubts of Sam's perfect deserts.

But no, this Will would not deign to do. The gentle, patient painter, contented with his own
estimation of his endowments, and resigned to be misjudged and neglected by the world, had
his own indomitable doggedness. He would never flatter the world's low taste for commonplace,
and its miserable short-sightedness; he would never pay homage to Sam Winnington which he did
not deserve--a man very far from his equal--a mere clever portrait-painter, little better than
a skilled stonemason. Thus Sam Winnington and Will Locke took to flushing when each other's
names were mentioned--sitting bolt upright and declining to comment on each other's works,
or else dismissing each other's efforts in a few supremely contemptuous words. Certainly the
poor man rejected the rich not one whit less decidedly than the rich man rejected the poor,
and the Mordecais have always the best of it. If we and our neighbours will pick out each other's
eyes, commend us to the part of brave little Jack, rather than that of the belligerent Giant,
even when they are only eyeing each other previous to sitting down to the ominous banquet.

But this was a difficulty to Dulcie, as it is to most women. No one thinks of men's never showing
a malign influence in this world; it is only good women who are expected to prove angels outright
here below. But it does seem that there is something more touching in their having to stifle
lawful instincts, and in their being forced to oppose and overcome unlawful passions--covetousness,
jealousy, wrath, "hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness."

Dulcie, with the sharpness of her little face, divested of all its counterbalancing roundness--a
keen, worn little face since the day it had smiled so confusedly but generously out of the
scurvy silk in the church at Redwater--was a sweet-looking woman under her care-laden air.
Some women retain sweetness under nought but skin and bone; they will not pinch into meanness
and spite; they have still faith and charity. One would not wonder though Dulcie afforded more
vivid glimpses of il Beato's angels after the contour of her face was completely spoilt.

You can fancy the family room in St. Martin's Lane, some five or six years after Will Locke
and Dulcie were wed, with its strange litter of acids and aquafortis, graving tools and steel
plates. Will and Dulcie might have been some of the abounding false coiners, had it not been
for the colours, the canvas, and the vessels from the potteries, all huddled together without
attention to effect. Yet these were not without order, for they were too busy people to be
able to afford to be purely disorderly. They could not have had the curtain less scant, for
the daylight was precious to them; they had not space for more furniture than might have sufficed
a poor tradesman or better sort of mechanic; only there were traces of gentle birth and breeding
in the casts, the prints and portfolios, the Dutch clock, and the great hulk of a state-bed
hung with the perpetual dusky yellow damask, which served as a nursery for the poor listless
little children.

Presently Dulcie looked after the sops, and surreptitiously awarded Will the Benjamite's portion,
and Will ate it absently with the only appetite there; though he, too, was a consumptive-looking
man--a good deal more so than when he attracted the pity of the good wife at the "Nine Miles
Inn." Then Dulcie crooned to the children of the milk-porridge she would give them next night,
and sang to them as she lulled them to sleep, her old breezy, bountiful English songs, "Young
Roger came tapping at Dolly's window," and "I met my lad at the garden gate," and brushed their
faces into laughter with the primroses and hyacinths she had bought for Will in Covent Garden
Market. Will asked to see them in the spring twilight, and described the banks where they grew,
with some revival of his early lore, and added a tale of the fairies who made them their round
tables and galleries, which caused the eldest child (the only one who walked with Dulcie in
his little coat to the church where he was christened) to open his heavy eyes, and clap his
hot hands, and cry, "More, father, more." Will and Dulcie looked gladly into each other's eyes
at his animation, and boasted what a stamping, thundering man he would yet live to be--that
midge, that sprite, with Dulcie's small skeleton bones, and Will's dry, lustreless, fair hair!

Anon while Dulcie was still rocking one of these weary children moaning in its sleep, Will
must needs strike a light to resume his beloved labours; but first he directed his candle to
his canvas, and called on Dulcie to contemplate and comprehend, while he murmured and raved
to her of the group of fallen men and women crouching in the den--of the wind of horror raising
their hair,--of the dawn of hope bursting in the eastern sky, and high above them the fiendish
crew, and the captains of the Blessed still swaying to and fro in the burdened air, and striking
deadly blows for supremacy. And Dulcie, open-eyed and open-mouthed as of old, looked at the
captives, as if listening to the strife that was to come, and wellnigh heard the thunder of
the captains and the shouting, while her eye was always eagerly pointed to that pearly streak
which was to herald the one long, cool, calm, bright day of humanity. No wonder Dulcie was
as demented as Will, and thought it would be a very little matter though the milk-porridge
were sour on the morrow, or if the carrier did not come with the price in his pocket for these
sweet pots, and bowls, and pipkins: she believed her poor babies were well at rest from the
impending dust, and din, and danger; and smiled deep, quiet smiles at Clary--poor Clary, with
her cut velvet, her coach, and her black boy. Verily Will and Dulcie could afford to refer
not only pleasantly but mercifully, to Sam Winnington and Clary that night.

"It is contemptible to lose sight of the sublimity of life even to enjoy perfect ease and happiness."
That is a very grand saying; but, oh dear! we are poor creatures; and though Dulcie is an infinitely
nobler being now than then, the tears are fit to start into our eyes when we remember the little
brown head which "bridled finely," the little feet which pranced lightly, and the little tongue
which wagged, free from care, in the stage waggon on the country road yon clear September day.

VI.--SAM AND CLARISSA IN COMPANY IN LEICESTER SQUARE.

Sam and Clarissa were worshipful people now. Uncle Barnet no longer invited them to his second-rate
parties; Uncle Barnet was really proud to visit them in their own home. Sam Winnington was
a discerning mortal; he had a faculty for discovering genius, especially that work-a-day genius
which is in rising men; and he certainly had bird-lime wherewith he could fix their feet under
his hospitable table. The best of the sages and wits of the day were to be met in Sam Winnington's
house; the best of the sages and wits of the day thought Clary a fine woman, though a little
lofty, and Sam a good fellow, an honest chum, a delightful companion, and at the same time
the prince of portrait-painters. What an eye he had! what a touch! How much perception of individual
character, and at the same time, what sober judgment and elegant taste to preserve his sitters,
ladies and gentlemen, as well as men and women! Cavaliers would have it, the ladies and gentlemen,
like Sam's condescension at his wedding-feast, overtopped the mark; but it was erring on the
safe side. Who would not sink the man in the gentleman? After all, perhaps the sages and wits
were not altogether disinterested: almost every one of them filled Sam Winnington's famous
sitter's chair, and depended on Sam's tasteful pencil handing down their precious noses and
chins to posterity.

Sam and Clary were going abroad, in that coach, which had made Dulcie Locke look longingly
after it, and ponder what it would be for one of her frail children to have "a ride" on the
box as far as Kensington. They were bound for the house of one of the lordly patrons of arts
and letters. They were bound for my Lord Burlington's, or the Earl of Mulgrave's, or Sir William
Beechey's--for a destination where they were a couple of mark and distinction, to be received
with the utmost consideration. Sam reared smartly his round but not ill-proportioned person
in his rich brocade coat, and Clary towered in the corner with her white throat, and her filmy
ivory-coloured laces.

We won't see many more distinguished men and women than the members of the set who frequented
the old London tea-parties; and Sam Winnington and Clary were in it and of it, while Will Locke
and Dulcie were poverty-stricken and alone with their bantlings in the garret in St. Martin's
Lane. What becomes of the doctrine of happiness being equally divided in this world, as so
many comfortable persons love to opine? Possibly we don't stand up for it; or we may have our
loophole, by which we may let ourselves out and drag it in. Was that illustrious voyage all
plain sailing? Sam Winnington used to draw a long sigh, and lay back his head and close his
eyes in his coach, after the rout was over. He was not conscious of acting; he was not acting,
and one might dare another, if that other were not a cynic, to say that the motive was unworthy.
He wanted to put his sitters on a good footing with themselves; he wanted to put the world
on a good footing with itself; it was the man's nature. He did not go very far down; he was
not without his piques, and like other good-natured men--like Will Locke, for that matter--when
he was once offended he was apt to be vindictive; but he was buoyant, and that little man must
have had a great fund of charity about him somewhere to be drawn upon at first sight. Still
this popularity was no joke. There were other rubs. The keen love of approbation in the little
man, which was at the bottom of his suavity, was galled by the least condemnation of his work
and credit; he was too manly to enact the old man and the ass, but successful Sam Winnington
was about as soon pricked as a man who wears a fold of silk on his breast instead of the old
plate armour.

Clary had her own aggravations: with all her airs Clary was not a match for the indomitable,
unhesitating, brazen (with a golden brazenness) women of fashion. Poor Clary had been the beauty
at Redwater, the most modish, the best informed woman there; and here, in this world of London,
to which Sam had got her an introduction, she was a nobody; scarcely to be detected among the
host of ordinary fine women, except by Sam's reflected glory. This was a doubtful boon, an
unsatisfactory rise in the social scale. Then Clary had nobody beyond Sam to look to, and hope
and pray for: she had not even sickly children to nurse, like Dulcie. Sam would only live to
future generations in his paintings. Ah, well! it was fortunate that Sam was a man of genius.

You may believe, for all the grand company, the coach, the cut velvet, the laces, and the black
boy, that this world was but a mighty sorry, uneasy place to Sam and Clarissa as they rolled
home over the pavement, while Will and Dulcie slept with little betwixt them and the stars.

VII.--STRIPS SOME OF THE THORNS FROM THE HEDGE AND THE GARDEN ROSES.

Will Locke lay dying. One would have thought, from his tranquillity, confidence, and love of
work, even along with spare diet, that he would have lived long. But dreamland cannot be a
healthy region for a man in the body to inhabit. Will was going where his visions would be
as nought to the realities. He was still one of the most peaceful, the happiest of fellows,
as he had been all his life. He babbled of the pictures he would paint in another region, as
if he were conscious that he had painted in a former state. It seemed, too, that the poor fellow's
spiritual life, apart from his artist career, took sounder, cheerier substance and form, as
the other life grew dimmer and wilder. Dulcie was almost reconciled to let Will go; for he
would be more at home in the spirit-world than here, and she had seen sore trouble, which taught
her to acquiesce, when there were a Father and a Friend seen glimmeringly but hopefully beyond
the gulf. Dulcie moved about, with her child holding by her skirts, resigned and helpful in
her sorrow.

The most clouded faces in the old room in St. Martin's Lane--with its old litter, so grievous
to-day, of brushes, and colours, and graving tools, and wild pictures which the painter would
never touch more--were those of Sam Winnington and Clary. Will had bidden Sam and Clary be
sent for to his deathbed; and, offended as they had been, and widely severed as they were now,
they rose and came trembling to obey the summons. Clary gave one look, put her handkerchief
quickly to her eyes, and then turned and softly covered the tools, lifted the boiling pot to
the side of the grate, and took Dulcie's fretful, wondering child in her lap. She was not a
fine lady now, but a woman in distress. Sam stood immoveable and uncertain, with a man's awkwardness,
but a face working with suppressed emotion.

Will felt no restraint; he sat up in his faded coat with his cravat open to give him air, and
turning his wan face with its dark shadow towards Sam Winnington in his velvet coat, with a
diamond ring sparkling on his splashed hand, and his colour, which had grown rosy of late years,
heightened with emotion, addressed his old friend.

"I wanted to see you, Sam; I had something on my mind, and I could not depart with full satisfaction
without saying it to you; I have done you wrong."

Sam raised his head, startled, and stared at the sick man: poor Will Locke; were his wits utterly
gone? they had always been somewhat to seek: though he had been a wonderful fellow, too, in
his own way--wonderful at flowers, and birds, and beasts, if he had but been content with them.

"I called you a mere portrait-painter, Sam," continued the dying man; "I refused to acknowledge
your inspiration, and I knew better: I saw that to you was granted the discernment to read
the human face and the soul behind it, as to me it was given to hold converse with nature and
the subtle essence of good and evil. Most painters before you have painted masks; but yours
are the clothings of immortals: and your flesh is wonderful, Sam--how you have perfected it!
And it is not true what they tell you of your draperies: you are the only man alive who can
render them picturesque and not absurd, refined and not stinted. You were a genteel fellow,
too, from the beginning, and would no more do a dirty action when you had only silver coins
to jingle in your pockets, than now when they are stuffed with gold moidores."

"Oh, Will, Will!" cried Sam, desperately bowing his head; "I have done little for you."

"Man!" cried Will, with a kingly incredulity, "what could you do for me? I wanted nothing.
I was withdrawn somewhat from my proper field, to mould and colour for daily bread; but Dulcie
saved me many a wasted hour, and I could occupy the period of a mechanical job in conceiving--no,
in marshalling my visions. Mine was a different, an altogether higher line than yours, Sam;
you will forgive me if I have told you too abruptly," and the poverty-stricken painter, at
his last gasp, looked deprecatingly at his old honoured associate.

But he was too far gone for ceremony; he was too near release for pain. He had even shaken
hands with the few family cares he was capable of experiencing, and had commended Dulcie to
Sam Winnington without a single doubt. He felt, like Gainsborough, that they were all going
to heaven, and Vandyke was in the company. Where was the room for misunderstanding now! Here
was the end of strife, and the conclusion of the whole matter. Some other sentences Will spoke
before his parting breath; and when his hearers heard him murmuring the word "garment," they
fancied he still raved of his calling--on to the end. But his mind had turned and taken refuge
in another calling, and it was in reference to it that he quoted the fragment of a verse, "And
besought him that they might touch if it were but the border of his garment; and as many as
touched him were made whole." "Sam, have you put forth your hand?"

Thus Will Locke departed rejoicing. Dulcie, a thin forlorn widow woman, talked with a lingering
echo of his elevation, of her Will's being beyond lamentation, and of herself and her boy's
being well off with their faith in the future. Dulcie had a proud, constant presentiment in
the recesses of her woman's heart that the husband and father's good name and merited reputation
would surely find his memory out in this world yet. She had no material possessions save a
few of his gorgeous, gruesome, hieroglyphical pictures, and what she had borrowed or inherited
of his lower cunning in tinting, a more marketable commodity in the present mind of society.

Dulcie disposed of Will's paintings, reluctantly, realizing an astonishing amount; astonishing,
unless you take into account the fact that his companions and contemporaries were not sure
that he was a mere madman now that he had gone from their ranks. They wished to atone for their
dislike to his vagaries by preserving some relics of the curious handling, the grotesque imagination,
the delicate taste, and the finely accurate knowledge of vegetable and animal forms which had
passed away.

Then Dulcie went back in the waggon to her old friends at Fairfax, and, by so doing, probably
saved her sole remaining child. Dulcie did not know whether to be glad or sorry when she found
that Will's boy had no more of his father's genius than might have been derived from her own
quick talents, and neat, nice fingers. And she was comforted: not in the sense of marrying
again--oh dear, no! she cherished the memory of her Will as a sacred thing, and through all
her returning plumpness and rosiness--for she was still a young woman--never forgot the honour
she had borne in being a great painter's wife and companion for half-a-dozen years. Perhaps,
good as she was, she grew rather to brandish this credit in the faces of the cloth-workers
and their wives; to speak a little bigly of the galleries and the Academy, of chiaroscuro and
perspective, of which the poor ignoramuses knew nothing: to be obstinate on her dignity, and
stand out on her gentility far before that of the attorneys' and the doctors' wives;--and all
this though she had been, as you may remember, the least assuming of girls, the least exacting
of wives. But women have many sides to their nature, and remain puzzles--puzzles in their virtues
as in their vices; and if Dulcie were ever guilty of ostentation, you have not to dive deep
to discover that it was out of respect to her Will--to her great, simple, single-hearted painter.

No, Will Locke's was not a life wrecked on the rocks of adversity, any more than Sam Winnington's
was stranded on the sandbanks of prosperity. The one did a little to mellow the other before
the scenes closed, and Will Locke was less obliged to Sam Winnington than Sam to Will in the
end. Will's nature and career were scarcely within the scope of Sam's genial material philosophy;
but the thought of them did grow to cross Sam's mind during his long work-hours; and good painters'
hours are mostly stoutly, steadily, indefatigably long. He pondered them even when he was jesting
playfully with the affable aristocrat under his pencil; he spoke of them often to Clary when
he was sketching at her work-table of an evening; and she, knitting beside him, would stop
her work and respond freely. Then Sam would rise, and, with his hands behind his back, go and
look at that lush, yet delicate picture of the Redwater Bower which he had got routed out,
framed, and hung in Clary's drawing-room. He would contemplate it for many minutes at a study,
and he would repeat the study scores and scores of times with always the same result--the conviction
of the ease and security resulting from spiritualizing matter, and the difficulty and hopelessness
of materializing spirit. And after these long looks into the past, Sam would be more forbearing
in pronouncing verdicts on his brethren, worsted in the effort to express what was inherent
in their minds; would not decide quite so dogmatically, that all a man had to do was to be
sound and diligent, and keep himself far apart from high-flown rubbish, like a common-sense,
sober-minded Englishman. And Sam came to be less feverishly anxious about his own monopoly
of public esteem; less nettled at art-criticism; perhaps less vivacious in his talents and
well-doing, but more manly and serene in his triumph, as Will Locke had been manly and serene
in his failure.

Will Locke's life and death, so devoid of pomp and renown, might be beyond lamentation, after all.

ADAM HOME'S REPENTANCE.

I.--WILD, WITTY NELLY CARNEGIE.

"A bonny bride's sune buskit; eh, Nanny Swinton?"

"But ye're no bonny, Miss Nelly; na, na, ye cannot fill the shoon o' yer leddy mother; ye're
snod, and ye may shak yer tails at the Assembly, but ye're far ahint Lady Carnegie."

"An' I've but to dance my set with young Berwickshire Home, I care not though I bide at home
after all."

But Nelly Carnegie would have little liked that resource, though she now flung the powder out
of her nut-brown hair, and tapped her little mirror with her fan.

In a low dark closet, up a steep stair, in a narrow, confined, dark-browed house in the Canongate
of Edinburgh, one of the belles of 17--made her toilette. Her chamber woman, in curch and tartan
screen, was old nurse and sole domestic of the high-headed, strong-minded, stately widow of
a wild north-country laird, whose son now ruled alone in the rugged family mansion among the
grand, misty mountains of Lochaber. Nelly Carnegie was no beauty; not fair as a red-and-white
rose, like Lady Eglinton, or any one of her six daughters; not dainty, like poor imprisoned
Lady Lovat; she was more like desperate Lady Primrose, flying shrieking from her mad husband's
sword and pistols, or fierce Lady Grange, swearing her bootless revenge on the wily, treacherous,
scared Lord of Session. She was but wild, witty Nelly Carnegie, whom no precise, stern mother
could tame, no hard life at her embroidery or her spinet could subdue. She was brown as a gipsy,
skin, eyes, and hair--the last a rich, ruddy chestnut brown--with nothing to distinguish her
figure but its diminutiveness and the nimbleness of the shapely hands and feet; while her mother's
lace lappets were higher by half a foot than the crown of many a manikin on whom she looked
down, and her back that never bent or leant for a second on rail or cushion, was straight as
an arrow, as well as long. But Nelly, in her absurd, magnificent brocade, and her hoop, that
made her small figure like a little russet cask, and with busk and breast-knot and top-knot,
was admired, as odd people will choose what is irregular, strange, and racy, in preference
to what is harmonious, orderly, and insipid.

Nelly had a cavalier to walk by her sedan, as her mother and she traversed the rough streets.
He handed her out at the old Assembly door, but she flung away his hand, and followed her mother
alone within the dignified precincts, leaving a gloom and a storm on a lowering brow, unshaded
by the cocked hat, then carried under the wearer's arm.

The old Assembly Rooms where potent Jacky Murray presided, where urbane Duncan Forbes won all
hearts, where a gentle laird wooed in sweet numbers--and in vain--the Annie Laurie of that
well-known old song, are now almost forgotten. Other things have passed away in company with
the wigs and ruffles, the patches and snuff. The grace may remain, and the refinement be thorough
where then it was superficial, but the courtliness of conscious superiority, the picturesque
contrarieties and broken natural land that lay below the heaths and craters, exist but as the
black gloom and red glare of the past.

There the grave responsible Lord of Session, sober in mien as Scotchmen are wont to be, sat
at midnight and roared over his claret in the mad orgies of the Hell-fire Club; here the pawky,
penetrating lawyer, shrewd both from calling and character, played the reckless game of a correspondence
with the stage Court of St. Germains; yonder mettle beauty sailed along on her high-heeled
shoes to finish the night's triumph at an oyster supper in a den behind the Luckenbooths. And
there again walked an imperial dowager, who still span her own linen and struck her serving-man
with her ivory cane. Truly the old Edinburgh Assembly Rooms had their secrets, and contained
exciting enough elements under their formal French polish.

The regular balls at the Assembly Rooms were eras in Nelly Carnegie's life, and yet she met
always the same company. She knew every face and name, and what was worse, danced nightly with
the same partner. The select society was constituted at the commencement of the season, and
when once the individual fan was drawn from the cocked-hat of fate, there was no respite, no
room for change. Young Home of Staneholme had knowledge of the filigree circle through which
Nelly was wont to insert her restless fingers, and Lady Carnegie furthered his advances; so
that although Nelly hated him as she did the gloomy Nor' Loch, she received his escort to and
from the Assembly Rooms, and walked with him her single minuet, as inevitably as she lilted
Allan Ramsay's songs, or scalded her mouth with her morning's porridge.

Nelly's suitor was not ill to look upon, so far as flesh and blood went. He was a well-made,
robust fellow, whose laced coat and deep vest showed the comely, vigorous proportions of youth.
The face was manly, too, in spite of its beardless one-and-twenty, but the broad eyebrows sank,
either in study or sullenness, and the jaw was hard and fixed.

Yet to see how Nelly strained her bonds, how she gecked and flouted and looked above him, and
curtsied past him, and dropped his hand as if it were live coals, while the heavy brow grew
darker, until it showed like a thunderstorm over the burning red of the passion-flushed cheek.

"Tak tent, Nelly," whispered a sedate companion, sensible, cautious, and canny, whose flaxen
hair over its roll had the dead greyness of age, though the face below was round and dimpled;
"young Staneholme drew his sword last night on the President's son because he speered if he
had skill to tame a goshawk."

"Tak tent, yerself, Janet Erskine," Nelly responded wrathfully; "think twice ere you wed auld
Auchtershiel."

Janet shrank, and her bright blue eye blinked uneasily, but no additional colour came into
her cheek, nor did her voice shake, though it fell. "It must be, Nelly; I daurna deny my father,
and mony mair drink forby Auchtershiel; and if he cursed his last wife out and in, and drove
her son across the sea, they were thrawn and cankered, and he was their richtfu' head. I'll
speak him fair, and his green haughs are a braw jointure. But, Nelly, do ye believe that the
auld Laird--the auld ane before Auchtershiel himself, he that shot the Covenanter as he hung
by the saugh over the Spinkie-water, and blasphemed when he prayed--walks at night on the burn
bank?"

"I dinna ken; if I did not fear a livin' sorrow, I would daur a dead ane," Nelly protested,
with a shade of scorn in her levity; "and ye can bide in the house on the soft summer nights.
The Lady of Auchtershiel need not daunder by the burn side; she can be countin' her house purse
in the still room; but if I were her, I would rather beg my bread."

"Whisht, for shame, Nelly Carnegie," was returned with a shrillness in the measured tones;
"you would not; and ye'll learn yer own task, and say Yes to sour, dour Staneholme."

"I never will; I'll let myself be starved to death, I'll throttle myself with my own hands
first," cried Nelly Carnegie, fire flashing in her large eyes and on her dark cheeks; and looking
up in her defiance she met the glow for glow of Staneholme's star. Time-serving Janet Erskine
moved off in unconcealed trepidation, and Nelly stood her ground alone, stamping her foot upon
the boards, and struggling in vain against the cruel influence which she could not control,
and to which she would not bend.

"He need not gloom and look at me; hearkeners never hear good of themselves," Nelly thought,
with passionate vehemence; but her sparkling eyes fell slowly, and her proud panting heart
quailed with a long throb.

II.--A GALLANT REBUFFED.--NELLY'S PUNISHMENT.

The next time Nelly saw Adam Home was by the landing in the Canongate, in whose shelter lay
the draw-well wherein the proud, gently-born laird's daughter every afternoon dipped the Dutch
porcelain jug which carried the fresh spring-water wherewith to infuse her mother's cherished,
tiny cup of tea. Young Home was passing, and he stepped aside, and offered to take the little
vessel from her hand, and stoop and fill it. He did this with a silent salutation and glance
that, retaining its wonted downward aim, yet suddenly lightened as if it loved to rest upon
the little girlish figure, in its homely tucked-up gown, the crimson hood drawn over the chestnut
hair that turned back in a crisp wave from the bold, frank, innocent face. But she waved him
off, and balancing her foot upon the edge-stone, saw herself reflected in the steel-like water.
Then he begged with rare softness in a voice that was rough and gruff, unless it deepened with
strong feeling--

"Will you suffer me, Nelly Carnegie? I would give my hand to pluck but a flower to serve you."

Had he tried that tone at first, before she was more than chilled by his sombre and imperious
gravity, before her mother supported him unrelentingly and galled and exasperated her by persecution,
he might have attracted, fascinated, conquered. As it was, she jeered at him.

"Serve me! he could do me no better service than 'mount and go.' A posy! it would be the stinging-nettle
and dank dock if he gathered it."

The revenge he took was rude enough, but it was not unheard of in those days. He caught her
by the wrist, and under the shadow of the abutting gable he kissed the knitted brow and curling
lips, holding her the while with a grasp so tight that it gave her pain. When she wrung herself
from him, she shook her little hand with a rage that quivered through every nerve, and had
more of hate than of romping folly or momentary pique in its passion.

"Nelly Carnegie," said her mother, as she carefully pulled out the edge of a coil of yellow
point-lace, which rested on her inlaid foreign work-table, and contrasted with her black mode
cloak and white skinny fingers, and looking with her keen, cold, grey eyes on the rebellious
daughter standing before her, went on, "I have word that Staneholme goes south in ten days."

Nelly could have said, "And welcome," but she knew the consequences, and forbore.

"He's willin' to take you with him, Nelly, and he shows his good blood when he holds that a
Carnegie needs no tocher."

Still Nelly did not answer, though she started so violently that her loosely-crossed hands
fell apart; and Nanny Swinton, who was about her housewifery in the cupboard off the lady's
parlour, heard every word, and trembled at the pause.

"Your providing is not to buy," continued the mistress of the aristocratic family, whose attendance
was so scanty and their wants so ill supplied that even in necessaries they were sometimes
pinched; "we've but to bid the minister and them that are allied to us in the town, and Nanny
will scour the posset dish, and bring out the big Indian bowl, and heap fresh rose-leaves in
the sweet-pots. You'll wear my mother's white brocade that she first donned when she became
a Leslie, sib to Rothes--no a bit housewife of a south-country laird. She was a noble woman,
and you're but a heather lintie of a lass to come of a good kind. So God bless you, bairn;
ye'll tak the blast of wind and gang."

As if the benediction had loosened the arrested tongue, Nelly burst out--"Oh, mother, mother! no."

Lady Carnegie, in her own person, had looked upon death with unblenching front, and had disowned
her only son because, in what appeared to others a trifle, he had opposed her law. Nor did
a muscle of her marked face now relax; her occupation went on without a check; she did not
deign to show surprise or displeasure, although her voice rose in harsh, ironical emphasis--

"Nelly Carnegie, what's your will?"

"Not that man, mother; not that fearsome man!" pleaded Nelly, with streaming eyes and beseeching
tones, her high spirit for the moment broken; her contempt gone, only her aversion and terror
urging a hearing--"The lad that's blate and dull till he's braggit by his fellows, and then
starker than ony carle, wild like a north-country cateran; even the haill bench o' judges would
not stand to conter him."

"He'll need his stiff temper; I couldna thole a man but had a mind of his own, my dear," ejaculated
Lady Carnegie in unexpected, clear, cherry accents, as if her daughter's extremity was diversion
to her.

"Oh, spare me, spare me, mother," Nelly began again.

"Hooly and fairly, Nelly Carnegie," interrupted the mother, still lightly and mockingly, "who
are you that ye should pick and choose? What better man will speer your price? or think ye
that I've groats laid by to buy a puggy or a puss baudrons for my maiden lady?"

"I'll work my fingers to the bone, mother; my brother Hugh will not see me want."

"Eat bite or sup of his victuals, or mint a Carnegie's working to me again, Nelly, and never
see my face more."

The lady had lapsed into wrath, that burned a white heat on her wrinkled brow, and was doubly
formidable because expressed by no hasty word or gesture.

"Leave my presence, and learn your duty, belyve, for before the turn of the moon Staneholme's
wife ye sall be."

Do not think that Nelly Carnegie was beaten, because she uttered no further remonstrance. She
did not sob, and beg and pray beyond a few minutes, but she opposed to the tyrannical mandate
that disposed of her so summarily the dead weight of passive resistance. She would give no
token of submission; would make no preparation; she would neither stir hand nor foot in the
matter. A hundred years ago, however, the head of a family was paramount, and household discipline
was wielded without mercy. Lady Carnegie acted like a sovereign: she wasted no time on arguments,
threats or entreaties. She locked her wilful charge into a dark sleeping-closet, and fed her
on bread and water until she should consent to her fate. Sometimes Nelly shook the door until
its hinges cracked, and sometimes she flung back the prisoner's fare doled out to her; and
then her mother came with a firm, slow, step, and in her hard, haughty manner commanded her
to cease, or she would tie her hand and foot, and pour meat and drink down her throat in spite
of her. Then Nelly would lie down on the rough boards, and stretch out her hands as if to push
the world from her and die in her despair. But the young life was fresh and strong within her.
She panted for one breath of the breeze that blew round craggy Arthur's Seat, and one drink
of St. Anthony's Well, and one look, if it were the last, of the golden sunshine, no beams
of which could penetrate her high, little window. She would fain have gone again up the busy
street, and watched the crowds of passengers, and listened to the bustling traffic, and greeted
her friends and acquaintances. Silence and solitude, and the close air that oppressed her,
were things very foreign to her nature. In the dark night, when her distempered imagination
conjured up horrible dreams, Nanny Swinton stole to her door, and bemoaned her bird, her lamb,
whispering hoarsely, "Do her biddin', Miss Nelly; she's yer leddy mother; neither man nor God
will acquit you; your burden may be lichter than ye trow." And Nelly was weary, and had sinful,
mad thoughts of living to punish her enemies more by the fulfilment of their desire than by
the terrors of her early death. So the next time her mother tapped on the pannel with her undaunted,
unwearied "Ay or no, Nelly Carnegie? Gin the bridal be not this week, I'll bid him tarry another;
and gin he weary and ride awa', I'll keep ye steekit here till I'm carried out a corp before
ye, and I'll leave ye my curse to be coal and candle, and sops and wine, for the lave o' yer
ill days."

Nelly gasped out a husky, wailing "Ay," and her probation was at an end.

III.--A MOURNFUL MARRIAGE EVE.

There was brief space now for Nelly's buying pearlins and pinners, and sacques and mantles,
and all a young matron's bravery, or for decorating a guest chamber for the ceremony. But Lady
Carnegie was not to be balked for trifles. Nanny Swinton stitched night and day, with salt
tears from aged eyes moistening her thread; and Nelly did not swerve from her compact, but
acted mechanically with the others as she was told. With a strange pallor on the olive of her
cheek, and swollen, burning lids, drooping over sunk violent lines beneath the hot eyeballs,
and cold, trembling hands, she bore Staneholme's stated presence in these long, bleak March
afternoons. He never addressed her particularly, although he took many a long, sore look. Few
and formal then were the lover's devoirs expected or permitted.

The evening was raw and rainy; elderly gentlemen would have needed "their lass with a lantern,"
to escort them from their chambers. The old city guard sputtered their Gaelic, and stamped
up and down for warmth. The chairmen drank their last fee to keep out the cold--and in and
out of the low doorways moved middle-aged women barefooted, and in curch and short gown, who,
when snooded maidens, had gazed on the white cockade, and the march of Prince Charlie Stuart
and his Highlandmen. Down the narrow way, in the drizzly dusk, ran a slight figure, entirely
muffled up. Fleet of foot was the runner, and blindly she held her course. Twice she came in
contact with intervening obstacles--water-stoups on a threshold, gay ribbons fluttering from
a booth. She was flying from worse than death, with dim projects of begging her way to the
North, to the brother she had parted from when a child; and ghastly suggestions, too, like
lightning flashes, of seizing a knife from the first butcher's block and ending her misery.

Hasty steps were treading fast upon her track. She distinguished them with morbid acuteness
through the speed of her own flight. They were mingled steps--a feeble hurrying footfall, and
an iron tread. She threaded a group of bystanders, and, weak and helpless as she was, prepared
to dive into a mirk close. Not that black opening, Nelly Carnegie, it is doomed to bear for
generations a foul stain--the scene of a mystery no Scottish law-court could clear--the Begbie
murder. But it was no seafaring man, with Cain's red right hand, that rushed after trembling,
fainting Nelly Carnegie. The tender arms in which she had lain as an infant clutched her dress;
and a kindly tongue faltered its faithful, distressed petition--

"Come back, come back, Miss Nelly, afore the Leddy finds out; ye hae nae refuge, an' ye're
traced already by mair than me."

But in a moment strong hands were upon her, holding her like a fluttering moth, or a wild panting
leveret, or a bird beating its wings; doing her no violence, however, for who would brush off
the down, or tear the soft fur, or break the ruffled feathers? She struggled so frantically
that poor old Nanny interposed--

"Na, sir; let her be; she'll gae hame wi' me, her ain born serving-woman. And oh, Staneholme,
be not hard, it's her last nicht."

That was Nelly Carnegie's marriage eve.

On the morrow the marriage was celebrated. The bridegroom might pass, in his manly prime and
his scarlet coat, although a dowf gallant; but who would have thought that Nelly Carnegie in
the white brocade which was her grandmother's the day that made her sib to Rothes--Nelly Carnegie
who flouted at love and lovers, and sported a free, light, brave heart, would have made so
dowie a bride? The company consisted only of Lady Carnegie's starched cousins, with their husbands
and their daughters, who yet hoped to outrival Nelly with her gloomy Lauderdale laird.

The hurried ceremony excused the customary festivities. The family party could keep counsel,
and preserve a discreet blindness when the ring dropped from the bride's fingers, and the wine
stood untasted before her, while Lady Carnegie did the honours as if lonely age and narrow
circumstances did not exist.

IV.--NELLY CARNEGIE IN HER NEW HOME.

The March sun shone clear and cold on grey Staneholme, standing on the verge of a wide moor,
with the troubled German Ocean for a background, and the piping east wind rattling each casement.
There was haste and hurry in Staneholme, from the Laird's mother down through her buxom merry
daughters to the bareheaded servant-lasses, and the substitutes for groom and lacquey, in coarse
homespun, and honest, broad blue bonnets. There was bustle in the little dining-room with its
high windows, which the sea-foam sometimes dimmed, and its spindle-legged chairs and smoked
pictures. There was blithe work in the cheerful hall, in whose broad chimney great seacoal
fires blazed--at whose humming wheels the young Mays of Staneholme, as well as its dependants,
still took their morning turn. There was willing toil in the sleeping-rooms, with their black
cabinets and heavy worsted curtains. And there was a thronged mêlée in the court formed by
the outhouses, over whose walls the small-leaved ivy of the coast clustered untreasured. Staneholme's
favourite horse was rubbing down; and Staneholme's dogs were airing in couples. Even the tenantry
of the never-failing pigeon-house at the corner of the old garden were in turmoil, for half-a-score
of their number had been transferred to the kitchen this morning to fill the goodly pasties
which were to anticipate the blackberry tarts and sweet puddings, freezing in rich cream. But
the sun had sunk behind the moor where the broom was only budding, and the last sea-mew had
flown to its scaur, and the smouldering whins had leaped up into the first yellow flame of
the bonfires, and the more shifting, fantastic, brilliant banners of the aurora borealis shot
across the frosty sky, before the first faint shout announced that Staneholme and his lady
had come home. With his wife behind him on his bay, with pistols at his saddle-bow, and "Jock"
on "the long-tailed yad" at his back, with tenant retainers and veteran domestics pressing
round--and ringing shouts and homely huzzas and good wishes filling the air, already heavy
with the smoke of good cheer--Staneholme rode in. He lifted down an unresisting burden, took
in his a damp, passive hand, and throwing over his shoulder brief, broken thanks, hurried up
the flight of stairs, through the rambling, crooked passages into the hall.

Staneholme was always a man of few words. He was taken up, as was right, with the little lady,
whose habit trailed behind her, and who never raised her modest eyes. "Well-a-day! the Laird's
bargain was of sma' buik," thought the retainers, but "Hurrah" for the fat brose and lumps
of corned beef, and the ale and the whisky, with which they are now to be regaled!

In the hall stood Joan and Madge and Mysie, panting to see their grand Edinburgh sister. They
were only hindered from running down into the yard by the deposed mistress of Staneholme, whose
hair was as white as snow, and who wore no mode mantle nor furbelows nor laces, like proud
Lady Carnegie. She was dressed in a warm plaiden gown and a close mob cap, with huge keys and
huswife balancing each other at either pocket-hole, and her cracked voice was very sweet as
she reiterated "Bide till he bring her here, my bairns," and her kindly smile was motherly
to the whole world. But think you poor vanquished Nelly Carnegie's crushed heart leapt up to
meet these Homes--that her eyes glanced cordially at Joan, and Madge, and Mysie--that her cheek
was bent gratefully to receive old Lady Staneholme's caress? No, no; Nelly was too wretched
to cry, but she stood there like a marble statue, and with no more feeling, or show of feeling.
Was this colourless, motionless young girl, in her dusty, disarranged habit, and the feather
of her hat ruffled by the wind, the gay Edinburgh beauty who had won Staneholme! What glamour
of perverse fashion had she cast into his eyes!

"Wae's me, will dule never end in this weary warld? Adam lad, Adam, what doom have you dragged
doon on yoursel'?" cried Lady Staneholme; and while the thoughtless, self-absorbed girls drew
back in disappointment, she met her son's proud eyes, and stepping past him, let her hand press
lightly for a second on his shoulder as she took in hers Nelly's lifeless fingers. She said
simply to the bride, "You are cold and weary, my dear, and supper is served, and we'll no bide
making compliments, but you're welcome hame to your ain gudeman's house and folk; and so I'll
lead you to your chamber in Staneholme, and then to the table-head, your future place." And
on the way she explained first with noble humility that she did not wait for a rejoinder, because
she had been deaf ever since Staneholme rode post haste from Edinburgh from the last sitting
of the Parliament; and that since she was growing old, although it was pleasant to her to serve
the bairns, yet she would be glad to relinquish her cares, and retire to the chimney-corner
to her wheel and her book; and she blessed the Lord that she had lived to see the young mistress
of Staneholme who would guide the household when she was at her rest. Nelly heard not, did
not care to recognise that the Lady of Staneholme, in her looks, words, and actions, was beautiful
with the rare beauty of a meek, quiet, loving spirit which in those troublous days had budded
and bloomed and been mellowed by time and trial. Nor did Nelly pause to consider that had she
chosen, she whose own mother's heart had never melted towards her, might have been nestled
in that bosom as in an ark of peace.

When Lady Staneholme conducted Nelly down the wide staircase into the chill dining-room, and
to the chair opposite the claret-jug of the master of the house, Nelly drew back with sullen
determination.

"Na, but, my bairn, I'm blithe for you to fill my place; Staneholme's mither may well make
room for Staneholme's wife," urged the lady, gently.

But Nelly remained childishly rooted in her refusal to preside at his board, unless compelled;
and her brow, knit at the remembrance of her fall, was set to meet the further encounter. Joan
and Madge and Mysie, with their blooming cheeks, and their kissing-strings new for the occasion,
stared as if their strange sister was but half endowed with mother wit; and Lady Staneholme
hesitated until Adam Home uttered his short, emphatic "As she pleases, mother," while the flush
flew to his forehead, and his firm lip shook.

Staneholme had resolved never to control the wife he had forced into his arms, beyond the cold,
daily intercourse which men will interchange with a deadly foe, as well as with a trusty frere;
never to approach her side, nor attempt to assuage her malice nor court her frozen lips into
a smile. This was his purpose, and he abode by it. He farmed his land, he hunted, and speared
salmon, was rocked in his fishing-boat as far as St. Abbs, read political pamphlets, and sat
late over his wine, and sometimes abetted the bold smuggling, much like his contemporaries.
But no pursuit which he followed with fitful excess seemed to satisfy him as it did others,
and he never sought to supplement it by courting his alien wife.

Lady Staneholme would fain have made her town-bred daughter-in-law enamoured with the duties
of a country life, and cheered the strange joylessness of her honeymoon. Failing in this attempt,
she, with a covert sigh, half-pain, half-pleasure, resumed the old oversight of larder and
dairy. Such care was then the delight of many an unsophisticated laird's helpmate; and, to
the contented Lady of Staneholme, it had quite made up for the partial deprivation of social
intercourse to which her infirmity had subjected her. Joan, Madge, and Mysie, wearied of haughty
Nelly after they had grown accustomed to the grand attire she wore, denied that they had ever
been dazzled with it, and ceased to believe that she had danced minuets in the Assembly Rooms
before Miss Jacky Murray. They had their own company and their own stories, into which they
had no temptation to drag an interloper.

Nelly, in her desolation standing apart in the centre of the wholesome, happy family circle,
grew to have her peculiar habits and occupations, her self-contained life into which none of
the others could penetrate.

V.--NELLY'S NEW PASTIMES.

The sea-pink and the rock saxifrage were making the rugged rocks gay, the bluebell was nodding
on the moor, and Nelly had not died, as she foolishly fancied she should. She had learned to
wander out along the shore or over the trackless moor for hours and hours, and often returned
footsore and exhausted. She who had been accustomed only to the Canongate and High Street of
Edinburgh, the tall houses with their occasional armorial bearings, the convenient huckster
shops--their irregular line intersected by the strait closes, the traffic and gossip; or to
the forsaken royal palace, and the cowslips of the King's Park--could now watch the red sunset
burnishing miles on miles of waving heather, and the full moon hanging above the restless tide.
She could listen to the surf in the storm, and the ripple in the calm, to the cry of the gull
and the wh-r-r of the moorcock; pull wild thyme, and pick up rose-tinted shells and perforated
stones; and watch shyly her hardy cottar servants cutting peats and tying up flax, and even
caught snatches of their rude Border lore of raid and foray under doughty Homes, who wore steel
cap and breastplate.

The coast-line at Staneholme was high and bold, but in place of descending sheerly and precipitately
to the yellow sands, it sloped in a green bank, broken by gullies, where the long sea-grass
grew in tangled tufts, interspersed with the yellow leaves of the fern, and in whose sheltered
recesses Nelly Carnegie so often lingered, that she left them to future generations as "Lady
Staneholme's Walks."

There she could see the London smacks and foreign luggers beating up to ride at the pier of
Leith. There she could sit for hours, half-hidden, and protected from the sea blast, mechanically
pulling to pieces the dried, blackened seaweed blown up among the small, prickly blush roses.
In her green quilted petticoat and spencer she might have been one of the "good people's changelings,"
only the hue of her cheek was more like that of a brownie of the wold; and, truly, to her remote
world there was an impenetrable mystery about the young mistress of Staneholme, in her estrangement
and mournfulness. Some said that she had favoured another lover, whom Staneholme had slain
in a duel or a night-brawl; some that the old Staneholmes had sold themselves to the Devil,
and a curse was on their remotest descendants; for was not the young laird fey at times, and
would not the blithe sisters pass into care-worn wives and matrons?

There sat Nelly, looking at the sea, musing dreamily and drearily on Old Edinburgh, or pondering
with sluggish curiosity over the Homes, and what, from casual looks and words, she could not
help gathering of their history. The Lairds of Staneholme had wild moss-trooper blood in their
veins, and they had vindicated it to the last generation by unsettled lives, reckless intermeddling
with public affairs, and inveterate feuds with their brother lairds.

Adam Home's was a hot heart, constant in its impetuosity, buried beneath an icy crust which
he strove to preserve, but which hissed and crackled when outward motives failed, or when opposition
fanned the inner glow. With the elements of a despot but half tamed, and like many another
tyrant, unchallenged master of his surroundings, Staneholme wielded his authority with fair
result. Tenant and servant, hanger-on and sprig of the central tree, bore regard as well as
fear for the young laird--all save Staneholme's whilom love and wedded wife.

Nelly did not wish to understand this repressed, ardent nature, although its developments sometimes
forced themselves upon her. She had heard Staneholme hound on a refractory tyke till he shouted
himself hoarse, and yet turn aside before the badger was unearthed; she had seen him climb
the scaurs, and hang dizzily in mid-air over the black water, to secure the wildfowl he had
shot, and it was but carrion; and once, Joan and Madge, to whom he was wont to be indulgent
in a condescending, superior way, trembled before the stamp of his foot and the kindling flash
of his eye. Some affair abroad had disturbed him and he came into the hall, when his sisters'
voices were raised giddily as they played off an idle, ill-thought-of jest on grave, cold Nelly.
"Queans and fools," he termed them, and bade them "end their steer" so harshly, that the free,
thoughtful girls did not think of pouting or crying, but shrank back in affright. Nelly Carnegie,
whom he had humbled to the dust, was below his anger.

When the grey mansion of Staneholme basked in the autumn sun, an auspicious event gladdened
its chambers. Joan was matched with a gay, gallant young cousin from Teviotdale, and from the
commencement of the short wooing to the indefatigable dance which the young bride herself led
off right willingly, all was celebrated with smiles and blessings, and harvest-home fulness
of joy and gratitude. But a dark shadow moved among the merrymakers. A young heart robbed of
its rights, like an upbraiding ghost, regarded the simple, loving, trusting pair, and compared
their consecrated vows with the mockery of a rite into which it had been driven.

The only change time brought to Nelly, was the progress of an unacknowledged bond between her
and good old Lady Staneholme. The obstacle to any interchange of ideas and positive confidence
between them, was the inducement to the tacit companionship adopted by the sick, wayward heart,
with its malady of wrong and grief. Influenced by an instinctive, inexplicable attraction,
Nelly's uncertain footsteps followed Lady Staneholme, and kept pace with her soft tread, when
she overlooked her spinners and knitters, gave out her linen and spices, turned over her herbs,
and visited her sick and aged. There they were seen--the smiling, deaf old lady, fair in her
wrinkles, and her mute, dark, sad daughter whom in patient ignorance she folded in her mantle
of universal charity.

VI.--THE LAIRD CONSCIENCE-SMITTEN.

Under a pale February sun Nelly was out on the sea-braes, where the sprays of the briar-roses
were swept in circles, streaming far and wide. She lingered in the hollow, and strayed to the
utmost limit of her path. As she was returning, her eye fell on the folds of an object fluttering
among the tedded grass. It was Staneholme's plaid. This was the first time he had intruded
upon her solitary refuge. When Nelly climbed the ascent, and saw the mansion house, with its
encumbered court, she could distinguish the sharp sound of a horse's hoof. Its rider was already
out of sight on the bridle-road. Michael Armstrong, the laird's man, was mounting his own nag;
Wat Pringle, the grieve, and other farm folk, stood looking after the vanished traveller; Liddel,
the Tweedside retriever, paced discontentedly up and down; and old Lady Staneholme met her
on the threshold, and as on the night of her arrival at Staneholme, led her up the staircase
and into her sleeping-chamber. Nelly marked, with dim dread, the tear-stains on the pallid
cheeks of placid age, and the trembling of the feeble hand that guided her. She had nothing
to fear; but what was the news for which there was such solemn preparation?

"My puir bairn," Lady Staneholme began brokenly, "I've had an interview with my son, and I've
learnt, late, some passages in the past; and I wonder not, but I maun lament, for I am a widow
mother, Nelly, and my only son Adam who did you wrong and showed you no pity, has got his orders
to serve with the soldiers in the Low Countries. He has not stayed to think; he has left without
one farewell: he is off and away, to wash out the sins of him and his in his young blood. I
will never see his face more: but you are a free woman; and, as the last duty he will receive
at your hand, he bids you read his words."

Nelly's hand closed tightly over its enclosure. "Who says I told he did me wrang?" she said,
proudly, her dilated eyes lifted up to the deprecating ones that did not avoid her gaze.

"Na, na, ye never stoopit to blame him. Weary fa' him! Nelly Carnegie," ejaculated honest Lady
Staneholme, "although he is my ain that made you his, sair, sair against your woman's will,
and so binged up blacker guilt at his doorstane, as if the lightest heritage o' sin werena'
hard to step ower. But, God forgive me! It's old Staneholme risen up to enter afresh upon his
straits, and may He send him pardon and peace in His ain time."

"Nelly" (Staneholme's letter said),--"for my Nelly you'll never be, though the law has given
me body and estate,--what garred me love you like life or death? I've seen bonnier, and you're
no so good as my mother, or you would have forgiven me long syne. Why did you laugh, and mock,
and scorn me, when I first made up to you among your fine Edinburgh folks? Had you turned your
shoulder upon me with still steadfastness, I might have been driven to the wall--I would have
believed you. When you said that you would lie in the grave sooner than in my arms, you roused
the evil temper within me; and though I had mounted the Grassmarket, I swore I would make you
my wife. What call or title had you, a young lass, to thwart your lady mother and the Laird
of Staneholme? And when I had gone thus far--oh! Nelly, pity me--there was no room to repent
or turn back. I dared not leave you to dree alane your mother's wrath: there was less risk
in your wild heart beating itself to death against the other, that would have gladly shed its
last drop for its captive's sake. But Heaven punished me. I found, Nelly, that the hand that
had dealt the blow could not heal it. How could I approach you with soft words, that had good
right to shed tears of blood for my deeds? So, as I cannot put my hand on my breast and die
like my father, I'll quit my moors and haughs and my country; I'll cross the sea and bear the
musquetoon, and never return--in part to atone to you, for you sall have the choice to rule
with my mother in the routh and goodwill of Staneholme, or to take the fee for the dowager
lands of Eweford, and dwell in state in the centre of the stone and lime, and reek, and lords
and ladies of Edinburgh; in part because I can hold out no longer, nor bide another day in
Tantalus, which is the book name for an ill place of fruitless longing and blighted hope. I'll
no be near you in your danger, because when other wives cry for the strong, grieved faces of
their gudemen, you will ban the day your een first fell upon me. Nelly Carnegie, why did my
love bring no return; no ae sweet kiss; never yet a kind blink of your brown een, that ance
looked at me in gay defiance, and now heavily and darkly, till they close on this world?"

Something more Staneholme raved of this undeserved, unwon love, whose possession had become
an exaggerated good which he had continued to crave without word or sign, with a boy's frenzy
and a man's stanchness. Nelly lost her power of will: she sat with the paper in her hand as
if she had ceased to comprehend its contents--as if its release from bondage came too late.

"Dinna ye ken, Nelly woman, his presence will vex you no longer? you're at liberty to go your
own gate, and be as you have been--that was his propine," whispered Lady Staneholme, in sorrowful
perplexity, but without rousing Nelly from her stupor. They lifted her on her bed, and watched
her until her trial took hold of her. No stand did Nelly make against pain and anguish. She
was sinking fast into that dreamless sleep where the weary are at rest, when Lady Staneholme
stood by her bed and laid an heir by her side, bidding her rejoice, in tones that fell off
into a faint quivering sob of tenderness and woe; but Nelly's crushed, stunned heart had still
some hidden spring among its withered verdure, and her Benoni called her back from the land
of forgetfulness.

VII.--BLESSING AND AFFLICTION--ADAM HOME'S RETURN.

Nelly recovered, at first slowly but cheeringly, latterly with a doubt and apprehension creeping
over her brightening prospect--until, all too certainly and hopelessly, her noon, that had
been disturbed with thunder-claps and dashing rain, was shrouded in grey twilight.

Nelly would live, but her limbs would never more obey her active spirit, for she had been attacked
by a relentless malady. The little feet that had slid in courtly measure, and twinkled in blithe
strathspeys, and wandered restlessly over moor and brae, were stretched out in leaden helplessness.
When she was young, she "had girded herself and gone whither she would;" but now, ere she was
old, while there was not one silver thread in those chestnut locks, "another would gird her
and carry her whither she would not." And oh! to think how the young mother's heart, ready
to bud and bloom anew, was doomed to drag out a protracted existence, linked to the corpse-like
frame of threescore and ten, until the angel of death freed it from its tabernacle of clay.

Nelly never spoke of her affliction--never parted from her baby. Travelling with difficulty,
she removed to Edinburgh, to the aspiring tenement in the busy Canongate, which she had quitted
in her distraction. Lady Carnegie, in her rustling silk and with her clicking ivory shuttle,
received her into her little household, but did not care to conceal that she did so on account
of the aliment Staneholme had secured to his forsaken wife and heir. She did not endure the
occasional sight of her daughter's infirmities without beshrewing them, as a reflection on
her own dignity. She even sneered and scoffed at them, until Nanny Swinton began to fear that
the judgment of God might strike her lady--a venerable grandame still without one weakness
of bodily decay or human affection.

And did Nelly fret and moan over the invalid condition for which there was neither palliation
nor remedy? Nay, a blessing upon her at last; she began to witness a good testimony to the
original mettle and bravery of her nature. She accepted the tangible evil direct from God's
hand, sighingly, submissively, and with a noble meekness of resignation. She rose above her
hapless lot--the old Nelly Carnegie, though subdued and chastened, was in a degree restored.

"Nanny! Nanny Swinton!" called Nelly from her couch, as she managed to hold up, almost exultingly,
the big crowing baby, in its quaintest of mantles and caps, "Staneholme's son's a braw bairn,
well worthy Lady Carnegie's coral and bells."

"'Deed is he," Nanny assented. "He'll grow up a stately man like his grandsire;" and recurring
naturally to forbidden memories, she went on: "He'll be the marrow of Master Hugh. Ye dinna
mind Master Hugh, Lady Staneholme?--the picture o' auld Lady Carnegie. That I sud call her auld!"

Nelly's brow contracted with something of its old indignation. "There's never a look of the
Carnegies in my son; he has his father's brow and lip and hair, and you're but a gowk, Nanny
Swinton!" and Nelly lay back and closed her eyes, and after a season opened them again, to
tell Nanny Swinton that "she had been dreaming of a strange foreign city, full of pictures
and carved woodwork, and of a high-road traversing a rich plain, shaded by apple and chestnut
trees, and of something winding and glittering through the branches," leaving Nanny, who could
not stand the sight of two magpies, or of a cuckoo, of a morning before she had broken her
fast, sorely troubled to account for the vision.

The gloaming of a night in June was on the Canongate and the silent palace of the gallant,
gentle King James. Lady Carnegie was gracing some rout or drum; Nanny Swinton was in her kitchen,
burnishing her superannuated treasures, and crooning to herself as she worked; Nelly, in her
solitary, shadowy room, lay plaiting and pinching the cambric and muslin gear whose manufacture
was her daily occupation, with her child's clumsy cradle drawn within reach of her hand. Through
the dim light, she distinguished a man's figure at the door. Nelly knew full well those lineaments,
with their mingled fire and gloom. They did not exasperate her as they had once done; they
appalled her with great shuddering; and sinking back, Nelly gasped--

"Are you dead and gone, Staneholme? Do you walk to seek my love that ye prigget for, but which
canna gladden you now? Gae back to the bottom of the sea, or the bloody battle-field, and in
the Lord's name rest there."

The figure stepped nearer; and Nelly, even in her blinding terror, distinguished that it was
no shadowy apparition, but mortal like herself. The curdling blood rushed back to Nelly's face,
flooding the colourless cheek, and firing her with a new impulse. She snatched her child from
its slumber, and clasped it to her breast with her thin transparent hands.

"Have you come back to claim your son, Adam Home? But you'll have to tear him from me with
your man's strength, for he's mine as well as yours; and he's my last, my only jewel."

And Nelly sat bolt upright, her rosy burden contrasting with her young, faded face, and her
large eyes beginning to flame like those of a wild beast about to be robbed of its young.

"Oh no, Nelly, no," groaned Staneholme, covering his face; "I heard of your distress, and I
came but to speer of your welfare." And he made a motion to withdraw.

But Nelly's heart smote her for the wrong her rash words had done him--a wayworn, conscience-smitten
man--and she recalled him relentingly.

"Ye may have meant well. I bear you no ill-will; I am stricken myself. Take a look at your
laddie, Adam Home, before ye gang."

He advanced when she bade him, and received the child from her arms; but with such pause and
hesitation that it might have seemed he thought more of his hands again meeting poor Nelly
Carnegie's, and of her breath fanning his cheek, than of the precious load she magnanimously
intrusted to him. He did look at the infant in his awkward grasp, but it was with a stifled
sigh of disappointment.

"He may be a braw bairn, Nelly--I know not--but he has no look of yours."

"Na, he's a Home every inch of him, my bonny boy!" Nelly assented, eagerly. After a moment
she turned her head, and added peevishly, "I'm a sick woman, and ye needna mind what I say;
I'm no fit for company. Good day; but mind, I've forgotten and forgiven, and wish my bairn's
father well."

"Nanny Swinton," called Nelly to her faithful nurse, as she lay awake on her bed, deep in the
sober dimness of the summer night, "think you that Staneholme will be booted and spurred with
the sun, riding through the Loudons to Lauderdale?"

"It's like, Lady Staneholme," answered Nanny, drowsily. "The keep o' man and beast is heavy
in the town, and he'll be tain to look on his ain house, and greet the folk at home after these
mony months beyond the seas. Preserve him and ilka kindly Scot from fell Popish notions rife
yonder!"

"A miserable comforter are you, Nanny Swinton," muttered her mistress, as she hushed her child,
and pressed her fevered lips to each tiny feature.

VIII.--THE RECONCILIATION AND RETURN TO STANEHOLME.

But Staneholme came again in broad light, the next day--the next--and the next, with half excuses
and vague talk of business. Lady Carnegie did not interdict his visits, or blame his weakness
and inconsistency, for they were seemly in the eyes of the world--which she honoured, after
herself, although she washed her hands of the further concerns of these fools.

And Nelly talked to him with a grave friendliness, like one restored from madness or risen
from another world. "Staneholme, you've never kissed the wean, and it's an ill omen," she said,
suddenly, watching him intently as he dandled the child; and as if jealous of any omission
regarding it, she appeared satisfied when he complied with her fancy.

"The curtain is drawn, and the shadow is on you; but is that a scar on your brow, Staneholme,
and where did you get it?"

"A clour from a French pistol;" it was but skin deep--he was off his camp-bed in a few days.

He stooped forward, as he spoke slightingly, and pushed back the hair that half obscured the
faint blue seam.

"Whisht!" said Nelly, reprovingly, "dinna scorn sickness; that bit stroke might have cost Lady
Staneholme her son and my bairn his father;" and she bent towards him in her turn, and passed
her fingers curiously and pityingly over the healed wound, ignorant how it burned and throbbed
under her touch. "When the bairn is grown, and can rin his lane, Staneholme," Nelly informed
him in her new-found freedom of speech, "I will send him for a summer to Staneholme; I'll be
lonesome without him, but Michael Armstrong will teach him to ride, and he'll stand by Lady
Staneholme's knee." Staneholme expressed no gratitude for the offer, he was fastening the buckle
of his beaver. The next time he came he twisted a rose in his hand, and Nelly felt that it
must indeed be Beltane: she looked at the flower wistfully, and wondered "would the breezes
be shaking the bear and the briar roses on the sea-braes at Staneholme, or were the grapes
of southern vines bonnier than they?" He flung down the flower, and strode to her side.

"Come hame, Nelly," he prayed passionately; "byganes may be byganes now. I've deserted the
campaign, I've left its honours and its dangers--and I could have liked them well--to free
men, and am here to take you hame."

Nelly was thunderstruck. "Hame!" she said, at last, slowly, "where you compelled me to travel,
where I gloomed on you day and night, as I vowed; I, who would not be a charge and an oppression
to the farthest-off cousin that bears your name. Are you demented?"

"And this is the end," groaned Staneholme, in bitterness; "I dreamt that I would win at last.
I did not love you for your health and strength, or your youth and beauty. I declare to you,
Nelly Carnegie, your face is fairer to me, lying lily white on your pillow there, than when
it was fresh like that rose; and when others deserted you and left you forlorn, I thought I
might try again, and wha kent but the ill would be blotted out for the very sake of the strong
love that wrought it?"

A dimness came across Nelly's eyes, and a faintness over her choking heart; but she pressed
her hands upon her breast, and strove against it for the sake of her womanhood.

"And I dreamed," she answered slowly and tremulously, "that it bude to be true, true love,
however it had sinned, that neither slight nor hate, nor absence nor fell decay could uproot;
and that could tempt me to break my plighted word, and lay my infirmity on the man that bargained
for me like gear, and that I swore--Heaven absolve me!--I would gar rue his success till his
deein' day. Adam Home, what are you seekin' at my hands?"

"Nae mair than you'll grant, Nelly Carnegie--pardon and peace, and my young gudewife, the desire
o' my eyes. I'll be feet to you, Nelly, as long's I'm to the fore."

"Big tramping feet, Staneholme," said Nelly, trying to jest, and pushing him back; "dinna promise
ower fair. Na, Adam Home, you'll wauken the bairn!"

So Staneholme bought the grand new family coach of which the Homes had talked for the last
generation; and Lady Carnegie curtsied her supercilious adieus, and hoped her son and daughter
would be better keepers at home for the future. And Nanny Swinton wore her new gown and cockernonie,
and blessed her bairn and her bairn's bairn, through tears that were now no more than a sunny
shower, the silver mist of the past storm.

There was brooding heat on the moors and a glory on the sea when Staneholme rode by his lady's
coach, within sight of home.

"There will be no great gathering to-night, Staneholme; no shots or cheers; no lunt in the
blue sky; only doubt and amaze about an old man and wife: but there will be two happy hearts
that were heavy as stane before. Well-a-day! to think I should be fain to return this way!"

Staneholme laughed, and retorted something perhaps neither quite modest nor wise; but the ready
tongue that had learnt so speedily to pour itself out to his greedy ears did not now scold
and contradict him, but sighed--

"Ah, Adam Home, you do not have the best of it; it is sweet to be beat; I didna ken--I never
guessed that."

Gladly astounded were the retainers of Staneholme at their young laird's unannounced return,
safe and sound, from the wars; but greater and more agreeable was their friendly surprise to
find that his sick wife, who came back with him unstrengthened in body, was healed and hearty
in spirit. Well might good old Lady Staneholme rejoice, and hush her bold grandson, for the
change was not evanescent or its effects uncertain. As Staneholme drove out his ailing wife,
or constructed a seat for her on the fresh moor, or looked at her stitching his frilled shirts
as intently as the child's falling collars, and talked to her of his duties and his sports,
his wildness was controlled and dignified. And when he sat, the head and protector of his deaf
old mother, and his little frolicsome, fearless child, and his Nelly Carnegie, whose spirit
had come again, but whose body remained but a sear relic of her blooming youth, his fitful
melancholy melted into the sober tenderness of a penitent, believing man, who dares not complain,
but who must praise God and be thankful, so long as life's greatest boons are spared to him.

HECTOR GARRET OF OTTER.

I.--THE FIRE.

A calm, pure summer moonlight fell upon the Ayrshire mosses and deans, but did not silver,
as far as we are concerned, the Carrick Castle of Bruce, nor Cameron's lair amidst the heather,
nor landward Tintock, nor even seagirt Ailsa Craig, but only the rolling waves of the Atlantic
and a grey turreted mansion-house built on a promontory running abruptly into the water. The
dim ivory light illuminated a gay company met in the dwelling with little thought of stillness
or solemnity, but with their own sense of effect, grouped carelessly, yet not ungracefully,
in an old-fashioned, though not unsuitable drawing-room.

They needed relief, these brilliant supple figures; they demanded the background of grey hangings,
scant carpet, spindle-legged chairs, and hard sombre prints. To these very cultivated, very
artificial and picturesque personages, a family sitting-room was but a stage, where lively,
capricious, yet calculating actors were engaged in playing their parts.

The party were mostly French, from the mass of gallant, dauntless emigrants, many of whom were
thus entertained with grateful, commiserating hospitality in households whose members had but
lately basked in the sparkling geniality of the southern atmosphere, now lurid and surcharged
with thunder.

There was a Marquise, worldly, light, and vain, whom adversity had not broken, and could not
sour; an Abbé, bland and double, but gentle and kindly in his way; a soldier, volatile, hot-headed,
brave as a lion, simple as a child; an older man, sad, sneering, indifferent to this world
and the next, but with the wrecks of a noble head, and, God help him, a noble heart.

Of the three individuals present of a different nation and creed, two closely resembled the
others with only that vague, impalpable, but perceptible distinction of those whose rearing
affords a superficial growth which overspreads but does not annihilate the original plant.
The one was a young man, buoyant, flippant, and reckless as the French soldier, but with a
bold defiance in his tone which was all his own; the other a young girl, coquettish and vivacious
as the Marquise, but with a deep consciousness under her feigning, an undercurrent of watchful
pride and passion, of which her model was destitute. The last of the circle was a fair-haired,
broad-shouldered lad, who stood apart from the others, big, shy, silent:--but he was earnest
amid their shallowness, noble amid their hollowness, and devoted amid their fickleness. How
he gazed on the arch, haughty girl, with her lilies and roses, her pencilled brows, her magnificent
hair magnificently arranged, with her rich silk and airy lace, and muslin folded and gathered
and falling into lines which were the very poetry of attire, unless where a piquant provoking
frill, band, or peak, reminded the gazer that the princess was a woman, a mocking mischievous
woman, as well as a radiant lady! How he listened to her contradictory words, witty and liquid
even in their most worthless accents! how he drank in her songs, the notes of her harp, the
rustle of her dress, the fall of her foot! how he started if she moved! how he saw her, though
his eyes were on the ground, and though his head was in his hands, while she marked him ceaselessly,
half with cruel triumph, half with a flutter and faintness which she angrily and scornfully
resisted and denied.

A few more gay bons mots and repartees, a last epigram from the Abbé, a court anecdote from
the Marquise which might have figured in one of those letters of Madame de Sévigné where the
freshness of the haymaker of Les Rochers survives the glare and the terrible staleness of the
Versailles of Louis XV., a blunt camp jest from the soldier, a sarcasm from the philosopher,
a joyous barcarole, strangely succeeded by a snatch from that lament of woe wrung forth by
the fatal field of Flodden, and the company dispersed. The horse's hoofs of the single stranger
of the evening rung on the causeway, as he made for the smooth sands of the bay, the lights
one by one leaping out, and the pale moon remaining mistress of Earlscraig as when the warder
on yon tower peered out over the waters for the boats of the savage Irish kern, or lit the
bale-fire that summoned Montgomery and Muir to ride and run for the love or the fear of Boswell
of Earlscraig.

Had these old-world times returned by magic? had a crazed serving-man revived the vanished
duties of his warlike predecessor? was the wraith of seneschal or man-at-arms conjuring up
a ghostly beacon to stream into the soft air? was an evil spirit about to bewilder and mislead
a fated ship to meet its doom on the jagged rocks beneath the dead calm of that glassy sea?
So dense was the vapour that suddenly gathered over Earlscraig, till like an electric flash,
a jet of flame sprang from a high casement and lit up the gathering obscurity. No horn blew,
no bugle sounded, no tramp of horse or hurrying feet broke the silence; the house lay in profound
rest, and the sleepers slept on, though truly that was no phantom glare, no marsh gleam, but
the near presence of an awful foe.

And the smoke burst forth in thicker, more suffocating volume; the red streamers shot up again
and again, and the burning embers fell like thickest swarms of fire-flies, before a single
hasty step roused an echo already lost in the roar and crackle of fire. A scared, half-dressed
servant ran out into the court, flung up his hands as he looked around him, then hurried back,
and suddenly the great bell pealed out its faithful alarum. "Good folk, good folk, danger is
at the door! For Jesu's sake and your dear lives, up and flee! The angels hold out their hands,
Sodom is around you--away, away!"

The summons was not in vain. Within a few seconds clamorous outcries, shrieks of dismay, the
dashing open of doors and windows, answered the proclamation. A horror-struck crowd assembled
rapidly in the court; but notwithstanding that the Abbé's wan face and shaven crown appeared
speedily, and the soldier shouted, "Who is in danger? mes camarades, suivez-moi!" the philosopher
instinctively elected himself commander; he rose, tall and erect, over the heads of his fellows;
his face flushed and brightened; and he spoke words of wisdom and resolution whose spirit men
recognised through the veil of his frozen tongue; while cravens shrank back, brave men rallied
round him!

"Where is Boswell? Mon Dieu! the house is burning and the master is not found! Adolphe, sauve
la Marquise, cet escalier n'est pas perdu. But where is Boswell? Show his room to me--the nearest
way--quick, or he perishes. Ah, le voilà!"

Down a flight of side steps stumbled the butler and a favourite groom, bearing between them
the young laird, motionless, senseless, his dress dishevelled, but unscathed by flame, and
unstained by blood; still breathing, but his marked imperious features were unconscious, heavy,
and lethargic.

The Abbé and his elder friend exchanged glances. The brow of the latter contracted in disgust
and gloom.

"Adolphe and he played billiards against my desire, as if he were not bête enough already,"
he said in an undertone. "Lay him here, my friends," to the servants, "and listen to me. If
you love the Seigneur, let him never know that thus it happened this night. Cover him with
a mantle; he will awake to see his chateau a ruin. Mais, n'importe, we will do our best. Carry
out what is most precious; bring up buckets of water. Ma foi! there is enough at hand."

Yes; at their feet, but by a few fathoms unavailable, lay the broad sea, sufficient to extinguish
the conflagration of a thousand cities, while the house above was rent with fierce heat, which
reddened the sea like blood.

The Marquise was rescued sobbing and shivering, but she shared her blanket with one of the
poor servant-girls. Even the old bed-ridden nurse, so blind and stupid with age that none could
satisfy her of the cause of the tumult and din, was carried out, and placed on the grass terrace
beside the master; where no sooner did she apprehend intuitively the neighbourhood of her proudly
cherished nursling, than she left off her weak wailing, and began to croon over him as fondly
and contentedly as when he lay an innocent babe in his cradle:

"Are you weary, Earlscraig? Have you come back sorely tired from the hunt or the race? Weary
fa' the men folk that let you lie down with the dew-draps on your bonny curls--bonnier than
Miss Alice's, for a' their fleechin'--as if it were high noon. No but noontide has its ills,
too; but you would never heed a bonnet, neither for sun nor wind. A wild laddie, a wild laddie,
Earlscraig!"

Eager but ignorant hands were piling up heaps of miscellaneous goods--pictures, feather-beds,
old armour, plate, mirrors, harness, carpets, and wearing apparel. All were tossed together
in wild confusion. The moon was hidden; air, earth, and water were lurid; a hot blast blew
in men's faces, which alone remained white and haggard, when a murmur and question, a doubt
and frenzy, first stirred and fast convulsed the mass. "Where is Miss Alice?" Ay, where was
Miss Alice? Who had seen her? Speak, in God's name!--shout her name until her voice replies,
and men's shuddering souls are freed from this ghastly nightmare.

Miss Alice! Alice Boswell! are you safe, lamenting unseen the home of your fathers? Or are
you within that turret whose foundation rock descends sheer into the sea--that turret close
by which the demon began his work, where his forked tongue is now licking each loophole and
outlet, where beams are bursting and the yawning jaws of hell are about to swallow up the rapid
wreck--forgotten, forsaken--the queen of hearts, the wooed and worshipped beauty; fair and
sweet, ripe and rare, the sole daughter of the race; the charm and delight of its grey heads?

Oh, Father, thou art terrible in thy decrees! Oh, men, ye are miserable fools! She is there
by the blazing framework of the window of her chamber, which she has never quitted; her hair
loose, some portion of her dress cast about her, her eyes wide open and glazing with terror,
but strangely beautiful--with a glory behind and about her; an unearthly brightness upon brow
and cheek, and white arms stretched out imploringly, despairingly for help in her utmost need.

They pressed forward; they looked up in anguish; old men who had followed her when a fairy
child, friends of long standing, acquaintances of yesterday. Again and again the gallant soldier
penetrated the low doorway; again and again he swerved and recoiled from the furnace fumes
that met him--a more fearful encounter than the fury of the sans-culottes and the reeking pools
beneath the guillotine.

"Courage, soldats! Vive la mort, pour la femme et pour la gloire!" and with a shout half-exulting,
half-maddened, the Gallic blood again fired to the desperate feat. Then there was a diversion--a
rush to the opposite side of the building--a ladder might be of use there. A notion of forcing
open a closed-up and disused gallery of communication, seized hold of these agitated minds,
and this afforded a vent to the pent-up sympathy and distress. New energy supplanted stupor;
and through the deep hush of the fire could be distinguished the blows of axe and hammer, wielded
lustily by stalwart and devoted arms, eager to clear a way of life and liberty for the captive.

But this was a work of time, and louder crackled and hissed the flames. A fiercer blaze filled
the sky, and glittered back from the waves; the serpent tongues drew together, and shot up
through the room in a yellow pyramid. In vain! in vain! The zealous labourers panted in the
sickness of horror and the chill of great awe.

"A boat! a boat!" called a voice from the outer circle. The thinker, the scorner, stood on
the verge of the rocks above the illuminated sea, his head bare, his coat stripped off. "Let
Mademoiselle cast herself from the casement instantly; it is her only hope. I can swim; I will
hold her up until a boat is launched. Courage, Mademoiselle! trust in God and in me."

"Yes, Marquise," he whispered for a second to his countrywoman near him; "I have lost God for
many a day; I have found him again in this hour. A Te Deum for my requiem!" and looking aghast
upon his face in the great light, the Marquise crossed herself, and averred ever afterwards
that it was transformed like unto that of his patron saint, St. Francis. The next moment he
plunged into the midnight sea. Those who witnessed the action declared that the reflection
of the burning was so strong that he seemed to sink into a lake of fire, where he rose again
presently, and breasted the waters stoutly.

The girl saw the design; she comprehended it, and the hoarse murmur of encouragement that hailed
its presence of mind. The concentration of the flames, which threatened every moment to bring
down a portion of the ponderous roof in one destroying crash, left a freer passage. She advanced
quickly--she put her foot on the smouldering sill; she paused, hesitated. It was a fearful
alternative.

"Leap down, leap down, Miss Alice; a drowning man has two lives, a burning man but one. Down,
down, or you are lost!"

But another cry mingled with the vehement appeal--a piercing, confident cry, that would have
vibrated on the dull ear of the dying, though it said only, "I am coming. Alice Boswell: I
am coming!"

He was there, on his panting, foam-flecked horse: he flung himself from his saddle; he heard
her answer, "Hector Garret, save me, save me!"

He broke the circle as Samson burst the green withes: he paralysed all remonstrance; he vanished
into the abyss which the great staircase presented. He must have borne a charmed life to reach
thus far--when a mightier roar, a perfect column of fire, a thundering avalanche of glowing
timber and huge stones descended with a shock of an earthquake, and rebounded into the sea,
engulfing for ever the fair slight form within.

By daring and magnanimous effort and main force, other arms bore back Hector Garret from the
tottering walls and shaken foundation: and the boat rowed out and delivered the heroic Frenchman.
The sinking in of the turret roof satiated the destroyer, so that the further wing of the house
was preserved. Its master lived unharmed, to rouse himself from his portentous slumber and
face his calamity, while the lover lay writhing and raging in the clutch of wild fever.

But the summer sun shining down on the sea, once more blue and clear as heaven, fell on black
yawning gaps and mounds of ashes; on shivered glass and strewn relics of former luxury; on
the very grass of the promontory, brown and withered, and trodden into the earth for many a
yard; on the horrible grave of the maiden who had watched her own image in the crystal pools,
lilted her siren songs to the break of the waves, woven at once chains for her adorers and
the web of that destiny which buried her there, unshrouded and uncoffined.

II.--THE OFFER.

The Clyde was forded by man and horse where ships now ride at anchor; but the rush of trade,
not quite so deep and rapid fifty years since as now, yet strong and swift, the growth of centuries,
was hurrying, jostling, trampling onward in Jamaica Street and Buchanan Street and their busy
thoroughfares. Within our quarter, however, were stillness and dimness, the cold, lofty, classic
repose of the noble college to which a professor's house was in immediate vicinity.

The room, large, low-roofed, with small, peaked windows, had not been built in modern times.
The furniture was almost in keeping: roomy settees, broad, plain, ribbed-back chairs, with
faded worked covers, the task of fingers crumbled into dust, heavy bookcases loaded with proportionably
ponderous or curiously quaint volumes, and mirrors, with their frames like coffins covered
with black velvet and relieved by gilding.

The only fresh and fragrant thing in the room--ay, or in the house, where master and mistress
and servants were old and withered--was a young girl seated on a window-seat, her hands lightly
crossed, watching the white clouds in the July sky, white, though nothing else is so in Glasgow,
where the air is heavy with perpetual smoke and vapour.

That girl, too broad-browed and large-eyed for mere youthful beauty, but with such an arch,
delicate, girlish mouth and chin as betokened her a frank, unsophisticated, merry child after
all, was Leslie Bower, the young daughter and only child of an erudite and venerated professor.

Leslie had no brothers and no sisters, and in a sense she had neither father nor mother, for
Professor Bower was the son, husband, and father of his books, and he had so mighty a family
of these, ancient and modern, that he had very little time or attention to spare for ties of
the flesh. He was a mild, absent, engrossed old man, flashing into energy and genius in his
own field of learning, but in the world of ordinary humanity a body without a soul.

Professor Bower married late in life a timid, shrinking English wife, who, removed from all
early ties, and never mingling in Glasgow society, lapsed into a stillness as profound as his own.

Dr. Bower took little notice of his child; what with duties and studies, he had no leisure;
he read in his slippered morning gown, he read at meals, he read by his evening lamp; probably,
if Mrs. Bower would have confessed it, he kept a volume under his pillow. No wonder he was
a blear-eyed, poking, muttering old man, for he was much more interested in Hannibal than in
Bonaparte, and regarded Leslie, like the house, the yearly income, the rector, the students,
the janitors, as one of many abstract facts with which he troubled himself as little as possible.

Mrs. Bower cared for Leslie's health and comfort with scrupulous nervous exactness, but she
was incapable of any other demonstration of regard. She was as shy and egotistical as poor
Louis XVI., and perhaps it would have demanded as tragic a domestic revolution to have stirred
her up to lively tenderness. Leslie might have been as dubious as Marie Antoinette of the amount
of love entertained for her by her nearest kin, but curiously, though affectionate and passionate
enough to have been the pure and innocent child of some fiery Jocobin, she had not vexed herself
about this mystery. One sees every day lush purple and rose-flowered plants growing in unaccountable
shade; true, their associates are pale and drooping, and the growth of the hardier is treacherous,
and may distil poison, but the evil principle is gradual, and after conditions have been confirmed
and matured.

The stronger portion of Leslie's nature, which required abundant and invigorating food, was
slow of development; the lighter side flourished in the silent, dull house, where nothing else
courted the sunbeam. In her childhood and girlhood, Leslie had gone out to school, and although
always somewhat marked and individual in character, she had companions, friends, sufficient
sympathy and intercourse for an independent, buoyant nature at the most plastic period of its
existence. This stage of life was but lately left behind; Leslie had not long learnt that now
she was removed from classes and masters, and must in a great measure confine her acquaintances
to those who returned her visits at her father's house; and as visitors put mamma and papa
about, and did not suit their habits, she must resign her little world, and be almost as quiet
and solitary as her elders. Leslie had just begun to sigh a little for the old thronged, bustling
class-rooms which she had lightly esteemed, and was active by fits and starts in numerous self-adopted
occupations which could put former ones out of her head, and fill up the great blanks in her
time and thoughts, for she was not inclined to sit down under a difficulty, and instinctively
battled with it in a thousand ways.

Thus Leslie had her flower-painting--few natural flowers she saw, poor girl--card boxes, worsted
vases, eggshell baskets, embroidery pieces, canary bird, and books--the last greedily devoured.
She did not assist her mother, because although their household was limited, Mrs. Bower's quiet,
methodical plans were perfect, and she gently declined all interference with her daily round.
Neither did Leslie work for her father, because the professor would as soon have employed her
canary bird. She was not thoughtful and painstaking for the poor, because, though accustomed
to a species of almsgiving, she heard nothing, saw nothing of nearer or higher association
with her neighbours. Yet there was capacity enough in that heart and brain for good or for evil.

So Leslie sat there, pausing in her sewing, and gazing idly at the sky, with a girl's quick
pensiveness and thick-coming fancies, as she mused.

How blue it was yonder! What glorious clouds! yet the world below was rather stupid and tiresome,
and it was hard to say what people toiled so arduously for. There were other lands and other
people: should she ever see them? Surely, for she was quite young. She wished they could go
in summer 'down the water,' out of this din and dust, to some coast village or lonely loch
between lofty purple mountains, such as she had seen when with Mrs. Elliot; papa might spare
a few weeks, people no richer did; they had no holidays, and it was so hot and close, and always
the same. But she supposed she must be contented, and would go away to cool and compose herself
in the crypt of their own cathedral. How grand it was; how solemn the aisles and arches on
every side, like forest trees; and then the monuments--what stories she invented for them!
St. Mungo's Well! St. Mungo, austere, yet beneficent; with bare feet, cowled head, scarred
back, and hardest of all, swept and garnished heart, with his fruitful blessing, 'Let Glasgow
flourish.' What would St. Mungo think now of the city of the tree, the fish, and the bell?

This hoar, venerable, beautiful feat of art was to the imprisoned Glasgow girl as St. Paul's
to such another isolated imaginative nature.

There was a knock at the street-door; a very decided application of the queer, twisted knocker.
Leslie roused herself: not a beggar's tap that; none of the janitors; and this was not Dr.
Murdoch's or Dr. Ware's hour: the girl was accurate in taps and footsteps. Some one was shown
in; a man's voice was heard greeting "Dr. Bower," before the study door was closed. Leslie
started up with pleased surprise,--"Hector Garret of Otter! he will come upstairs to see us;
he will tell us how the country is looking; he will bring news from Ferndean," and for the
next hour she sat in happy, patient expectation.

Mrs. Bower, a fair, faded, grave woman, came into the room, and sat down with her needlework
in the other window.

"Mamma," exclaimed Leslie, "do you know that Hector Garret of Otter is downstairs with papa?"

"Yes, Leslie."

"He never fails to ask for us; don't you think we'll see him here by-and-by?"

"I do not know; it depends upon his engagements."

"I wonder what brings him to Glasgow just now; he must find it so much more agreeable at home,"
with a little sigh.

"Leslie, I don't think you have anything to do with that."

"No, certainly; Hector Garret and I are two very different persons."

"Leslie!"

"Well, mamma."

"I wish you would not say Hector Garret; it does not sound proper in a girl like you."

"I suppose it does not. He must have been a grown-up man when I was a child. I have caught
the habit from papa, but I have not the least inclination to use the name to his face."

"I should think not, Leslie;" and the conversation dropped.

Presently the stranger entered deliberately; a tall, fair, handsome man of eight-and-thirty
or forty, with one of those cold, intellectual, statuesque faces in which there is a chill
harmony, and which are types of a calm temperament, or an extinct volcano. Perhaps it was that
cast of countenance which recommended him to the Bowers; yet Leslie was dark, bright, and variable.

The visitor brought a gift in his hand--a basket of flowers and summer fruit, of which Leslie
relieved him, while she struggled in vain to look politely obliged, and not irrationally elated.

"So kind of you to trouble yourself! Such a beautiful flower--wild roses and hawthorn too--I
like so much to have them, though they wither very soon. I dare say they grew where

               'Fairies light
    On Cassilis Downans dance.'

(Burns was becoming famous, and Leslie had picked up the lines somewhere.) And the strawberries,
oh, they must be from Ferndean."

The bearer nodded and smiled.

"I knew it by instinct," and Leslie began eating them like a tempted child, and stained her
pretty lips. "Those old rows on each side of the summer-house where papa first learnt his lessons--I
wonder if there are jackdaws there still: won't you have some?"

"No, thank you. What a memory you have, Miss Bower!"

"Ferndean is my Highland hill. When papa is very stiff and helpless from rheumatism, he talks
of it sometimes. It is so long ago; he was so different then."

Mr. Garret and Mrs. Bower exchanged a few civil words on his journey, the spring weather, the
state of the war, like two taciturn people who force their speeches; then he became Leslie's
property, sat down beside her, watched her arranging her flowers, helped her a little, and
spoke now and then in answer to her questions, and that was sufficient.

Hector Garret was particularly struck this evening with the incongruity of Leslie's presence
in the Professor's dry, silent, scholastic home, and with her monotonous, shaded existence,
and her want of natural associations and fitting companionship. He pondered upon her future;
he was well acquainted with her prospects; he knew much better than she did that the money
with which his father had bought up the mortgages on Ferndean, and finally the estate itself,
was drained and scattered long ago, and that the miserable annuity upon which the Professor
rested peacefully as a provision for his widow and child, died with the former. It was scarcely
credible that a man should be so regardless of his own family, but the echo of the mystic,
sublime discourses of the Greek porches, the faint but sacred trace of the march of vast armies,
and the fall of nations, caused Leslie to dwindle into a mere speck in the creation. Of course
she would be provided for somehow: marry, or make her own livelihood. Socrates did not plague
himself much about the fate of Xantippe: Seneca wrote from his exile to console his mother,
but the epistles were for the benefit of the world at large, and destined to descend to future
generations of barbarians.

What a frank, single-hearted young girl she seemed to Hector Garret--intelligent, capable of
comprehending him in a degree, amusing him with her similes and suggestions; pretty, too, as
one of those wild roses or pinks that she prized so highly, though she wore a sober, green,
flowered silk dress. He should like to see her in a white gown. He supposed that was not a
convenient town wear. Pope had unmasked women, but he could not help thinking that a fresh,
simple, kind young girl would be rather a pleasant object of daily encounter. She would grow
older, of course. That was a pity; but still she would be progressing into an unsophisticated,
cordial, contented woman, whom servants would obey heartily--to whom children would cling.
Even men had a gush of tenderness for these smiling, unobtrusive, humble mothers; and best
so in the strain and burden of this life.

Leslie knew nothing of these meditations. She only understood Hector Garret as a considerate
friend, distinguished personally, and gifted mentally--for her father set great store upon
him--but, unlike the gruff or eager servants to whom she was accustomed, condescending to her
youth and ignorance, and with a courtesy the nearest to high-breeding she had ever met. She
was glad to see Hector Garret, even if he did not bring a breath of the country with him. She
parted from him with a sense of loss--a passing sadness that hung upon her for an hour or two,
like the vapour on the river, which misses the green boughs and waving woods, and sighs sluggishly
past wharfs and warehouses.

It was a still greater surprise to Leslie when Hector Garret came again the next evening. He
had never been with them on two successive days before. She supposed he had gone back to Ayrshire,
although he had not distinctly referred to his speedy return. But he was here, and Leslie entertained
him as usual.

"Should you not like to see Ferndean?" inquired Hector Garret.

"Don't speak of it," Leslie cautioned him, soberly; "it would be far too great happiness for
this world."

"Why, what sort of dismal place do you think the world?"

"Too good a place for you and me," Leslie answered evasively, and with a touch of fun.

"But this is the very season for Ferndean and Otter, when the pasture is gay as a garden, and
you can have boating every day in the creeks, more sheltered than the moorland lochs."

The tears came into Leslie's eyes.

"I think it is unkind of you, Mr. Garret, to tempt me with such pictures," she answered, half
pettishly.

"I mean to be kind," he responded quickly. "I may err, but I can take refuge in my intentions.
You may see Ferndean and Otter, if you can consent to go there, and dwell there as a grave
man's friend and wife."

Leslie started violently, and the blood rushed over her face.

"I beg your pardon, Sir, but you don't mean it?"

"I do mean it, Leslie, as being the best for both of us; and I ask you plainly and directly
to marry me: if you agree, I hope and trust that you will never regret it."

Leslie trembled very much. She said afterwards that she pinched her arm to satisfy herself
that she was awake, but she was not quite overcome.

"I was never addressed so before. I do not know what to say. You are very good, but I am not fit."

He interrupted her--not with vows and protestations, but resolutely and convincingly.

"I am the best judge of your fitness,--but you must judge for yourself also. I am certain of
your father's and mother's acquiescence, so I do not mention them. But do not hurry; take time,
consult your own heart; consider the whole matter. I will not press for your decision. I will
wait days, weeks. I will go down to Otter in the meantime, if you prefer it. But if you do
say yes, remember, dear Leslie, you confer upon me the greatest boon that a woman can bestow
on a man, and I think I am capable of appreciating it."

He spoke with singular impartiality, but without reassuring his hearer. Leslie looked helplessly
up to him, excited and distressed.

He smiled a little, and sighed a brief sigh.

"You are not satisfied. You are too candid and generous. You wish me to take my refusal at
once. You feel that I am too old, too dull to presume--"

"Oh, no, no," Leslie exclaimed, seeing herself convicted of terrible selfishness and conceit,
while her heart was throbbing even painfully with humility and gratitude. "You have done me
a great honour, and if you would not be disappointed--if you would bear with me--if you are
not deceiving yourself in your nobleness--I should be so happy to go to Ferndean."

