"And I had rather you stayed here," said his uncle, in a tone of voice that for him was good-humoured.
"Come, you need not be in a pet, like a child. Stay where you are now, and if you don't like
to come again, why you can stay away."

As this was said in the manner of a request, George did again sit down. "It will be foolish
to make a fuss about it," said he to himself; "and what he says is true. I need not come again,
and I will not." So he sat down and again sipped his wine.

"So you saw Caroline at Jerusalem?" said the old man, after a pause of about twenty minutes.

"Yes, I met her with Miss Baker. But who told you?"

"Who told me? Why, Miss Baker, of course. They were both here for a week after their return."

"Here in this house?"

"Why shouldn't they be here in this house? Miss Baker is usually here three or four times every
year."

"Is she?" said George, quite startled by the information. Why on earth had Miss Baker not told
him of this?

"And what did you think of Caroline?" asked Mr. Bertram.

"Think of her?" said George.

"Perhaps you did not think anything about her at all. If so, I shall be delighted to punish
her vanity by telling her so. She had thought a great deal about you; or, at any rate, she
talked as though she had."

This surprised George a great deal, and almost made him forgive his uncle the inquiry he had
received. "Oh, yes, I did think of her," said he. "I thought of her a little at least."

"Oh, a little!"

"Well, I mean as much as one does generally think of people one meets--perhaps rather more
than of others. She is very handsome and clever, and what I saw of her I liked."

"She is a favourite of mine--very much so. Only that you are too young, and have not as yet
a shilling to depend on, she might have done for a wife for you."

And so saying, he drew the candles to him, took up his newspaper, and was very soon fast asleep.

George said nothing further that night to his uncle about Caroline, but he sat longing that
the old man might again broach the subject. He was almost angry with himself for not having
told his uncle the whole truth; but then he reflected that Caroline had not yet acknowledged
that she felt anything like affection for him; and he said to himself, over and over again,
that he was sure she would not marry him without loving him for all the rich uncles in Christendom;
and yet it was a singular coincidence that he and his uncle should have thought of the same
marriage.

The next morning he was again more surprised. On coming down to the breakfast-parlour, he found
his uncle there before him, walking up and down the room with his hands behind his back. As
soon as George had entered, his uncle stopped his walk, and bade him shut the door.

"George," said he, "perhaps you are not very often right, either in what you do or what you
say; but last night you were right."

"Sir!"

"Yes, last night you were right. Whatever may have been your father's conduct, you were right
to defend it; and, bad as it has been, I was wrong to speak of it as it deserved before you.
I will not do so again."

"Thank you, sir," said George, his eyes almost full of tears.

"That is what I suppose the people in the army call an ample apology. Perhaps, however, it
may be made a little more ample."

"Sir, sir," said George, not quite understanding him; "pray do not say anything more."

"No, I won't, for I have got nothing more to say; only this: Pritchett wants to see you. Be
with him at three o'clock to-day."

At three o'clock Bertram was with Pritchett, and learned from that gentleman, in the most frozen
tone of which he was capable, and with sundry little, good-humoured, asthmatic chuckles, that
he had been desired to make arrangements for paying to Mr. George regularly an income of two
hundred a year, to be paid in the way of annuity till Mr. Bertram's death, and to be represented
by an adequate sum in the funds whenever that much-to-be-lamented event should take place.

"To be sure, sir," said Pritchett, "two hundred a year is nothing for you, Mr. George; but--"

But two hundred a year was a great deal to George. That morning he had been very much puzzled
to think how he was to keep himself going till he might be able to open the small end of the
law's golden eggs.

CHAPTER XIII.

LITTLEBATH.

I abhor a mystery. I would fain, were it possible, have my tale run through from its little
prologue to the customary marriage in its last chapter, with all the smoothness incidental
to ordinary life. I have no ambition to surprise my reader. Castles with unknown passages are
not compatible with my homely muse. I would as lief have to do with a giant in my book--a real
giant, such as Goliath--as with a murdering monk with a scowling eye. The age for such delights
is, I think, gone. We may say historically of Mrs. Radcliffe's time that there were mysterious
sorrows in those days. They are now as much out of date as are the giants.

I would wish that a serene gratification might flow from my pages, unsullied by a single start.
Now I am aware that there is that in the last chapter which appears to offend against the spirit
of calm recital which I profess. People will begin to think that they are to be kept in the
dark as to who is who; that it is intended that their interest in the novel shall depend partly
on a guess. I would wish to have no guessing, and therefore I at once proceed to tell all about it.

Miss Caroline Waddington was the granddaughter of old Mr. George Bertram; and was, therefore,
speaking with absolute technical propriety, the first-cousin once removed of her lover, young
Mr. George Bertram--a degree of relationship which happily admits of love and matrimony.

Old Mr. Bertram has once or twice been alluded to as a bachelor; and most of those who were
best acquainted with him had no doubt of his being so. To you, my reader, is permitted the
great privilege of knowing that he was married very early in life. He, doubtless, had his reasons
for keeping this matter a secret at the time, and the very early death of his wife saved him
from the necessity of much talking about it afterwards. His wife had died in giving birth to
a daughter, but the child had survived. There was then living a sister of Mrs. Bertram's, who
had been married some few years to a Mr. Baker, and the infant was received into this family,
of which our friend Miss Baker was a child. Miss Baker was therefore a niece, by marriage,
of Mr. Bertram. In this family, Caroline Bertram was educated, and she and Mary Baker were
brought up together as sisters. During this time Mr. Bertram did his duty by his daughter as
regards money, as far as his means then went, and was known in that family to be her father;
but elsewhere he was not so known. The Bakers lived in France, and the fact of his having any
such domestic tie was not suspected among his acquaintance in England.

In the course of time his daughter married one Mr. Waddington, hardly with the full consent
of the Bakers, for Mr. Waddington's means were small--but not decidedly in opposition to it;
nor had the marriage been opposed by Mr. Bertram. He of course was asked to assist in supplying
money for the young couple. This he refused to give; but he offered to Mr. Waddington occupation
by which an income could be earned. Mr. Waddington wisely acceded to his views, and, had he
lived, would doubtless have lived to become a rich man. He died, however, within four years
of his marriage, and it so fell out that his wife did not survive him above a year or two.

Of this marriage, Caroline Waddington, our heroine, was the sole offspring. Mr. Waddington's
commercial enterprises had not caused him to live in London, though he had been required to
be there frequently. Mr. Bertram had, therefore, seen more of him than of his own daughter.
The infant had been born in the house of the Bakers, and there she was brought up. As an orphan
of four years old, she had come under the care of Mary Baker, and under her care she remained.
Miss Baker was therefore not in truth her aunt. What was their exact relationship I leave as
a calculation to those conversant with the mysteries of genealogy. I believe myself that she
was almost as nearly connected with her lover.

When Mr. Waddington and his daughter were both dead, Mr. Bertram felt himself to be altogether
relieved from family ties. He was not yet an old man, being then about fifty-five; but he was
a very rich man. It was of course considered that he would provide liberally for his grandchild.
But when asked to do so by Miss Baker, he had replied that she was provided for; that he had
enabled the child's father to leave behind him four thousand pounds, which for a girl was a
provision sufficiently liberal; that he would not give rise to false hopes that she would be
his heiress; but that if his niece, Mary Baker, would take the charge of her, he would allow
an income for the purpose. This he had done with sufficient liberality.

All that is mysterious has now, I believe, been unravelled, and we may go back to our story.
Of Mr. Pritchett, we should perhaps say a word. He had been habituated in his sundry money
dealings to look on Miss Baker as his patron's niece, and had always called her as such. Indeed,
the connection had been so far back that he usually styled her Miss Mary. But he did not know,
nor--though he was very suspicious on the matter--did he quite suspect what was the truth as
to Miss Waddington. She was niece to his patron's niece; he knew no more than that, excepting,
of course, that she was the daughter of Mr. Waddington, and that she was mistress in her own
right of four thousand pounds.

Mr. Pritchett was very anxious about his patron's wealth. Here was Mr. Bertram turned seventy
years of age--Mr. Pritchett himself was sixty-six--and no one knew who was to be his heir.
As far as he, Mr. Pritchett, was aware, he had no heir. Mr. George would naturally be so--so
thought Mr. Pritchett; and the old man's apparent anxiety respecting his nephew, the habit
which he had now given himself for years of paying the cost of that nephew's education, and
the income which he now allowed him, all led to such a conclusion. But then the uncle liked
so well to lead, and Mr. George was so unwilling to be led! Had Waddington lived, he would
have been the heir, doubtless. Miss Waddington might still be so, or even Miss Baker. Mr. Bertram,
in his way, was certainly very fond of Miss Baker. It was thus that Mr. Pritchett speculated
from day to day. George, however, was always regarded by him as the favourite in the race.

And now at last we may return to our story.

Having seen his uncle, George's next business was to see his lady-love. His was a disposition
which would not allow him to remain quiet while his hopes were so doubtful and his heart so
racked. Had he been travelling with Miss Baker ever since, and living in daily intercourse
with Caroline, it is probable enough that he might by this time have been half tired of her.
But his love had had no such safety-valve, and was now, therefore, bubbling and boiling within
his heart in a manner very subversive of legal accuracy and injurious to legal studies.

It was absolutely necessary, he said to himself, that he should know on what ground he stood;
absolutely necessary, also, that he should be able to talk to some one on the subject. So he
wrote to Miss Baker, saying that he intended to do himself the pleasure of renewing his acquaintance
with her at Littlebath, and he determined to see Arthur Wilkinson on his way. These were the
days in which Wilkinson was taking pupils at Oxford, the days in which he used to think so
much of Adela Gauntlet.

The meeting of the two friends was sufficiently joyous; for such love sorrows as those which
oppressed Bertram when sitting in the chambers of Mr. Neversaye Die rarely oppress a young
man in moments which would otherwise be jovial. And Arthur had at this time gotten over one
misery, and not yet fallen into another. He had obtained the fellowship which he had hardly
expected, and was commencing the life of a don, with all a don's comforts around him.

"Well, upon my word, I envy you, Arthur; I do, indeed," said Bertram, looking round his cousin's
room at Balliol as they sat down to pass an evening quietly together. "This was what I always
looked forward to, as you did also; you have obtained it, I have forsworn it."

"Your envy cannot be very envious," said Wilkinson, laughing, "as all my bliss is still within
your own reach. You have still your rooms at Oriel if you choose to go into them." For Bertram
had been elected to a fellowship at that college.

"All! that's easily said; but somehow it couldn't be. I don't know why it is, Arthur; but I
have panted to have the privileges of an ordained priest, and yet it is not to be so. I have
looked forward to ordination as the highest ambition of a man, but yet I shall never be ordained."

"Why not, George?"

"It is not my destiny."

"On such a subject, do not talk such nonsense."

"Well, at any rate it will not be my lot. I do not mind telling you, Arthur, but there is no
one else to whom I could own how weak I am. There have been moments since I have been away
in which I have sworn to devote myself to this work, so sworn when every object around me was
gifted with some solemn tie which should have made my oath sacred; and yet--"

"Well--and yet? as yet everything is in your own power."

"No, Arthur, no, it is not so; I am now one of the myrmidons of that most special of special
pleaders, Mr. Neversaye Die. I have given myself over to the glories of a horse-hair wig; 'whereas'
and 'heretofore' must now be my gospel; it is my doom to propagate falsehood instead of truth.
The struggle is severe at first; there is a little revulsion of feeling; but I shall do it
very well after a time; as easily, I have no doubt, as Harcourt does."

"It is Harcourt who has led you to this."

"Perhaps so, partly; but no--I wrong myself in that. It has not been Harcourt. I have been
talked over; I have weakly allowed myself to be talked out of my own resolve, but it has not
been done by Harcourt. I must tell you all: it is for that that I came here."

And then he told the history of his love; that history which to men of twenty-four and girls
of twenty is of such vital importance. A young man when first he loves, and first knows that
his love is frequent in the thoughts of the woman he has chosen, feels himself to be separated
from all humanity by an amber-tinted cloud--to be enveloped in a mystery of which common mortals
know nothing. He shakes his mane as he walks on with rapid step, and regards himself almost
as a god.

"And did she object to your taking orders?" asked Wilkinson.

"Object! no, I am nothing to her; nothing on earth. She would not have objected to my being
a shoemaker; but she said that she would advise me to think of the one trade as soon as the other."

"I cannot say that I think she showed either good feeling or good taste," said Wilkinson, stiffly.

"Ah! my dear fellow, you do not know her. There was no bad taste in it, as she said it. I would
defy her to say anything in bad taste. But, Arthur, that does not matter. I have told her that
I should go to the bar; and, as a man of honour, I must keep my word to her."

His cousin had not much inclination to lecture him. Wilkinson himself was now a clergyman;
but he had become so mainly because he had failed in obtaining the power of following any other
profession. He would have gone to the bar had he been able; and felt himself by no means called
to rebuke Bertram for doing what he would fain have done himself.

"But she has not accepted you, you say. Why should she be so unwilling that you should take
orders? Her anxiety on your behalf tells a strong tale in your own favour."

"Ah! you say that because you do not understand her. She was able to give me advice without
giving the least shadow of encouragement. Indeed, when she did advise me, I had not even told
her that I loved her. But the fact is, I cannot bear this state any longer. I will know the
worst at any rate. I wish you could see her, Arthur; you would not wonder that I should be uneasy."

And so he went on with a lover's customary eloquence till a late hour in the night. Wilkinson
was all patience; but about one o'clock he began to yawn, and then they went to bed. Early
on the following morning, Bertram started for Littlebath.

The Littlebath world lives mostly in lodgings, and Miss Baker and Caroline lived there as the
world mostly does. There are three sets of persons who resort to Littlebath: there is the heavy
fast, and the lighter fast set; there is also the pious set. Of the two fast sets neither is
scandalously fast. The pace is never very awful. Of the heavies, it may be said that the gentlemen
generally wear their coats padded, are frequently seen standing idle about the parades and
terraces, that they always keep a horse, and trot about the roads a good deal when the hounds
go out. The ladies are addicted to whist and false hair, but pursue their pleasures with a
discreet economy. Of the lighter fast set, assembly balls are the ruling passion; but even
in these there is no wild extravagance. The gentlemen of this division keep usually two horses,
on the sale of one of which their mind is much bent. They drink plentifully of cherry-brandy
on hunting days; but, as a rule, they do not often misbehave themselves. They are very careful
not to be caught in marriage, and talk about women much as a crafty knowing salmon might be
presumed to talk about anglers. The ladies are given to dancing, of course, and are none of
them nearly so old as you might perhaps be led to imagine. They greatly eschew card-playing;
but, nevertheless, now and again one of them may be seen to lapse from her sphere and fall
into that below, if we may justly say that the votaries of whist are below the worshippers
of Terpsichore. Of the pious set much needs not be said, as their light has never been hid
under a bushel. In spite of hunt-clubs and assembly-rooms, they are the predominant power.
They live on the fat of the land. They are a strong, unctuous, moral, uncharitable people.
The men never cease making money for themselves, nor the women making slippers for their clergymen.

But though the residents at Littlebath are thus separated as a rule into three classes, the
classes do not always keep themselves accurately to their divisions. There will be some who
own a double allegiance. One set will tread upon another. There will be those who can hardly
be placed in either. Miss Baker was among this latter number: on principle, she was an admirer
of the great divine on the domestic comfort of whose toes so many fair fingers had employed
themselves; but, nevertheless, she was not averse to a rubber in its mildest forms. Caroline
did not play whist, but she occasionally gave way to the allurement prevalent among the younger
female world of Littlebath.

Miss Baker lived in lodgings, and Bertram therefore went to an hotel. Had she been mistress
of the largest house in Littlebath, he would hardly have ventured to propose himself as a guest.
The "Plough," however, is a good inn, and he deposited himself there. The hunting season at
Littlebath had commenced, and Bertram soon found that had he so wished he could with but little
trouble have provided himself with a stud in the coffee-room of his hotel.

He had intended to call on Miss Baker on the evening of his arrival; but he had not actually
told her that he would do so: and though he walked down to the terrace in which she lived,
his courage failed him when he got there, and he would not go in. "It may be that evening calls
are not the thing at Littlebath," he said to himself; and so he walked back to his hotel.

And on the following day he did not go before two o'clock. The consequence was, that poor Miss
Baker and her niece were kept at home in a state of miserable suspense. To them his visit was
quite as important as to himself; and by one of them, the elder namely, it was regarded with
an anxiety quite as nervous.

When he did call, he was received with all the hospitality due to an old friend. "Why had he
not come to tea the night before? Tea had been kept for him till eleven o'clock. Why, at any
rate, had he not come to breakfast? He had been much nicer in Jerusalem," Miss Baker said.

Bertram answered hardly with the spirit which had marked all that he had said in that far-away
land. "He had been afraid to disturb them so late; and had been unwilling to intrude so early."
Miss Waddington looked up at him from the collar she was working, and began to ask herself
whether she really did like him so much.

"Of course you will dine with us," said Miss Baker. George said he would, but assured her that
he had not intended to give so much trouble. Could this be the same man, thought Caroline,
who had snubbed Mr. M'Gabbery, and had stood by laughing when she slipped into the water?

All manner of questions were then asked and answered respecting their different journeys. Constantinople
was described on one side, and the Tyrol; and on the other the perils of the ride to Jaffa,
the discomforts of the Austrian boat to Alexandria, and the manners of the ladies from India
with whom Miss Baker and her niece had travelled in their passage from Egypt to Marseilles.
Then they said something about uncle George--not that Miss Baker so called him--and Bertram
said that he had learnt that Miss Baker had been staying at Hadley.

"Yes," said she; "when I am in town, I have always money matters to arrange with Mr. Bertram,
or rather to have arranged by Mr. Pritchett; and I usually stay a day or two at Hadley. On
this occasion I was there a week."

George could not but think that up to the period of their meeting at Jerusalem, Miss Baker
had been instructed to be silent about Hadley, but that she was now permitted to speak out openly.

And so they sat and talked for an hour. Caroline had given her aunt strict injunctions not
to go out of the room, so as to leave them together during Bertram's first visit. "Of course
it would be palpable that you did so for a purpose," said Caroline.

"And why not?" said Miss Baker, innocently.

"Never mind, aunt; but pray do not. I don't wish it." Miss Baker of course obeyed, as she always
did. And so George sat there, talking about anything or nothing, rather lack-a-daisically,
till he got up to take his leave.

"You have not a horse here, I suppose?" said Miss Baker.

"No; but why do you ask? I can get one in ten minutes, no doubt."

"Because Caroline will be so glad to have some one to ride with her."

"Nothing will induce aunt Mary to mount a steed since the day she was lifted out of her saddle
at Jaffa," said Caroline.

"Oh, that journey, Mr. Bertram! but I am a stronger woman than I ever thought I was to have
lived through it."

It was soon arranged that George should go back to his inn and hire a horse, and that he and
Caroline should then ride together. In another hour or so they were cantering up the face of
Ridgebury Hill.

But the ride produced very little. Caroline here required her attention, and George did not
find it practicable to remain close enough to his love, or long enough close to her, to say
what he had to say with that emphasis which he felt that the subject demanded. There were some
little tender allusions to feats of horsemanship done in Syria, some mention of the Mount of
Olives, of Miss Todd's picnic, and the pool of Siloam, which might, if properly handled, have
led to much; but they did lead to nothing: and when George helped Miss Waddington to dismount
at Miss Baker's door, that young lady had almost come to the conclusion that he had thought
better of his love, and that it would be well that she should think better of hers.

In accordance with our professed attempt at plain speaking, it may be as well explained here
that Miss Baker, with the view of sounding her uncle's views and wishes, had observed to him
that George had appeared to her to admire Caroline very much. Had the old man remarked, as
he might so probably have done, that they were two fools, and would probably become two beggars,
Miss Baker would have known that the match would be displeasing to him. But he had not done
so. "Ah!" he said; "did he? It is singular they should have met." Now Miss Baker in her wisdom
had taken this as a strong hint that the match would not be displeasing to him.

Miss Baker had clearly been on George's side from the beginning. Perhaps, had she shown a little
opposition, Caroline's ardour might have been heightened. As it was, she had professed to doubt.
She had nothing to say against George; much might doubtless be said in his favour, but--. In
fact, Miss Waddington would have been glad to know what were the intentions of Mr. George Bertram
senior.

"I really wish he had stayed away," she said to her aunt as they were getting ready for dinner.

"Nonsense, Caroline; why should he have stayed away? Why should you expect him to stay away?
Had he stayed away, you would have been the first to grumble. Don't be missish, my dear."

"Missish! Upon my word, aunt Mary, you are becoming severe. What I mean is, that I don't think
he cares so very much for me; and on the whole, I am not--not quite sure, whether--well, I
won't say anything more; only it does seem to me that you are much more in love with him than
I am."

Bertram came to dinner; and so also did one of the Littlebath curates, a very energetic young
man, but who had not yet achieved above one or two pairs of worked slippers and a kettle-holder.
Greater things, however, were no doubt in store for him if he would remain true to his mission.
Aunt Mary had intended to ask no one; but Caroline had declared that it was out of the question
to expect that Mr. Bertram should drink his wine by himself.

The whole evening was dull enough, and the work of disenchantment on Caroline's part was nearly
accomplished; but Bertram, a few minutes before he went away, as the curate was expatiating
to Miss Baker on the excellence of his rector's last sermon, found an occasion to say one word.

"Miss Waddington, if I call to-morrow, early after breakfast, will you see me?" Miss Waddington
looked as though there were nothing in the proposition to ruffle her serenity, and said that
she would. George's words had been tame enough, but there had been something in the fire of
his eye that at last reminded her of Jerusalem.

On the next morning, punctually at ten, his knock was heard at the door. Caroline had at first
persisted that her aunt should not absent herself; but even Miss Baker would not obey such
an injunction as this.

"How do you expect that the poor young man is to behave?" she had said. "I do not much care
how he behaves," Caroline had replied. But, nevertheless, she did care.

She was therefore sitting alone when Bertram entered the room. He walked up to her and took
her hand, and as he did so he seemed to be altogether a different man from that of yesterday.
There was purpose enough in his countenance now, and a purpose, apparently, which he had an
intention of pursuing with some energy.

"Miss Waddington," he said, still holding her hand; "Caroline! Or am I to apologize for calling
you so? or is the privilege to be my own?" and then, still holding her hand, he stood as though
expectant of an answer that should settle the affair at once.

"Our connection through your uncle entitles you to the privilege," said Caroline, smiling,
and using a woman's wiles to get out of the difficulty.

"I will take no privilege from you on such a basis. What I have to ask of you must be given
on my own account, or on my own refused. Caroline, since we parted in that room in Jerusalem,
I have thought seriously of little else than of you. You could not answer me then; you gave
me no answer; you did not know your own heart, you said. You must know it now. Absence has
taught me much, and it must have taught you something."

"And what has it taught you?" said she, with her eyes fixed on the ground.

"That the world has but one thing desirable for me, and that I should not take a man's part
unless I endeavoured to obtain it. I am here to ask for it. And now, what has absence taught you?"

"Oh, so many things! I cannot repeat my lesson in one word, as you do."

"Come, Caroline, I look at least for sincerity from you. You are too good, too gracious to
indulge a girlish vanity at the cost of a man's suspense."

Missish and girlish! Miss Waddington felt that it behoved her to look to her character. These
were words which had not usually been applied to her.

"Indeed, Mr. Bertram, I should think myself unpardonable to keep you in suspense."

"Then answer me," said he. He had by this time let go her hand, and was standing at a little
distance from her, on the hearth-rug. Never had lady been wooed in a sterner manner; but Caroline
almost felt that she liked him the better for it. He had simpered and said his little nothings
so like an ordinary gentleman during their ride, that his present brusqueness was quite a relief
to her.

But still she did not answer him at once. She essayed to stick her needle into her work, and
pricked her finger in lieu of it.

"Come, Caroline; am I wrong in supposing that now at least you must know your own feelings?
Or shall I tell you again how dearly, how truly I love you?"

"No!--no!--no!"

"Answer me, then. In honest, plain, Christian sincerity, answer me; as a true woman should
answer a true man. Do you love me?"

For a moment there was no answer.

"Well, I will not ask again. I will not torment you."

"Oh, Mr. Bertram! What am I to say? What would you have me say? Do not be so stern with me."

"Stern!"

"Well, are you not stern?" And coming up close to him, she looked into his face.

"Caroline," said he, "will you be my wife?"

"I will." It was a motion of the lips rather than a spoken word; but, nevertheless, he heard
it. Fool that he was not to have heard it before in the beating of her heart; not to have seen
it in the tear in her eye; not to have felt it in the warmth of her hand.

On that afternoon Miss Waddington's ride was much more energetic, and on that evening Miss
Baker did not think it necessary to catch a curate to drink wine with George Bertram. He was
made quite at home, and given to understand that he had better leave the dining-room when the
ladies did so.

There was much talked over that evening and the next day: the upshot of which was, that no
marriage could take place till next summer; that perhaps it might be expedient to postpone
it till the summer twelvemonths. To this George put, or would have put, an absolute veto; but
Miss Baker only shook her head, and smilingly said that she thought it must be so. Nothing
was to be done before Christmas; but as Miss Baker was to be at Hadley very early in January,
she undertook to inform Mr. Bertram, and gave strong hopes that he would be prevailed on to
favour the marriage.

"It can make no difference to my purpose whether he does or no," said George, very independently.

CHAPTER XIV.

WAYS AND MEANS.

On the following day Bertram returned to town. Now that he was a successful lover, and about
to take upon himself at some future time the responsible duties of a married man, he became
very energetic in the chambers of Mr. Die. He could hardly spare a day during the winter for
running down to Littlebath, and whenever he did do so, he took Coke upon Lyttleton down with
him. Nor did he work in vain. He never had worked in vain. Facility of acquiring the special
knowledge which he sought had ever been one of his gifts. Mr. Die was already beginning to
prophesy great things; and his friend Harcourt, who occasionally wanted his society, declared
that he overdid his labours.

Down at Littlebath they did not quite approve of all this industry. Caroline naturally thought
that more of her lover's hours should be devoted to her; and Miss Baker, who looked on Mr.
Bertram's money as certainly destined either for Caroline or George, considered that he was
wasting his time with his fusty books. She had not dared to say much to George on this subject,
and he had not taken very well the little that she did say. She could not tell him that Caroline
was Mr. Bertram's granddaughter, but she did remind him that he himself was Mr. Bertram's nephew,
and hinted that though a profession might be very eligible for a young man of such brilliant
prospects, it could hardly be necessary for him absolutely to make a slave of himself. To this
George had answered, somewhat curtly, that he had no reason to expect anything further from
his uncle; and that as he looked forward to maintain himself and his wife by his successful
exertions as a barrister, it was absolutely necessary that he should at present work very hard.
"I have lost a whole year," he said to Miss Baker; "and nothing but very sharp work can atone
for that."

He never once saw his uncle after his first visit to Littlebath till the next year was far
advanced. He felt no desire to see him, and certainly no wish to be the bearer of tidings as
to his own engagement. Miss Baker had undertaken to do this, and might do so if she so pleased.
As far as he was concerned, he had no idea of asking permission to marry from any one.

"Why should I ask him," he had once said to Miss Baker. "I shall marry just the same, whether
he permits it or whether he does not."

This was grievous to the ladies at Littlebath. Very little had been said about money between
George and Miss Baker up to this time; nothing had been said between George and Caroline; but
the two ladies knew that there could be no marriage till there was an adequate income. The
income of the gentleman when stripped of his fellowship would be two hundred pounds a year;
that of the lady was about the same. Now Caroline Waddington had no intention whatever of marrying
on four hundred pounds a year; and it must be more than three years at the very least before
all this profound study would result in golden fees.

Now that the matter was so far settled--settled as Bertram considered it--he did tell Harcourt
of his love. "Harcourt," said he, one day. "I have a piece of news which perhaps I ought to
tell you. I am engaged to be married."

"Are you?" said Harcourt, rather too coolly to satisfy his friend's expectation.

"I am not joking."

"Who ever accused you of joking since you took to the law and Mr. Die? I did not give you credit
for a joke; not even for so bad a one as that would be. Shall I congratulate or condole with you?"

"Either or neither. Perhaps you had better wait till you see the lady."

"And when is it to be?"

"Well; in this coming summer, I suppose. That is my wish, at least."

"And your wish of course will be law. I presume then that I may be justified in surmising that
the lady has some considerable fortune?"

"No, indeed, she has not. Something she has got; about as much, perhaps, as myself. We shall
have bread to eat."

"And occasionally cheese," said Harcourt, who could not understand that any rising man could
marry early, unless in doing so he acquired money.

"And occasionally cheese," repeated Bertram. "This is a state of things that would not suit
your book, I know."

"Not exactly," said Harcourt. "But men have very different ideas about women. I could do, and
have done, and am doing with a small income myself; but a wife is in some respects like a horse.
If a gentleman does keep a horse, it should be well groomed."

"You could not endure a woman who was not always got up in satin and velvet?"

"Not satin and velvet exactly. I do not require a curiously-mounted saddle for my horse. But
I don't think I should have much enjoyment with a cheap wife. I like cold mutton and candle-ends
myself very well, but I do not love feminine economies. Family washing-bills kept at the lowest,
a maid-of-all-work with an allowance in lieu of beer, and a dark morning gown for household
work, would not, if I know myself, add fuel to the ardour of my conjugal affection. I love
women dearly; I like them to be near me; but then I like them to be nice. When a woman is nasty,
she is very nasty."

Bertram said in his heart that Harcourt was a beast, an animal without a soul, a creature capable
of no other joys than those of a material nature; but he kept this opinion at the present moment
to himself. Not, however, that he was averse to express himself openly before his friend. He
often gave Harcourt to understand that he suspected him of being deficient in the article of
a soul; and Harcourt would take the reproach with perfect good-humour, remarking, perhaps,
that he might probably find it possible to get on decently without one.

"Is the lady's name a secret?" he asked.

"No; not to you, at least. I believe it is generally considered advisable that these sort of
things should not be talked about quite openly till the consummation of them is nigh at hand.
I have no wish for any mystery in the matter. Her name is Caroline Waddington."

"What! a daughter of Sir Augustus?"

"No; nothing to Sir Augustus, that I have heard."

"She must, then, be one of the General's family?"

"Not that either. Her only relative, that I know, is a Miss Baker."

"Miss Baker!" said Harcourt; and the tone of his voice was not encouraging.

"Yes, Miss Baker," said Bertram; and the tone of his voice was hardly conciliatory.

"Oh--ah--yes. I don't exactly think I know her. Miss Baker!"

"It would be odd if you did, for she lives at Littlebath, and hardly ever comes to town. When
she does, she stays down at Hadley with my uncle."

"Oh--h! That's a horse of another colour. I beg your pardon entirely, my dear fellow. Why did
you not tell me at first that this is a match of your uncle's making?"

"My uncle's making! It is not a match of my uncle's making."

"Well, well; one that he approves. I hardly gave you credit for so much prudence. That will
be as good as having everything settled exactly as you could wish it."

"You are giving me a great deal too much credit," said Bertram, laughing. "My uncle knows nothing
about my marriage, and I have not the slightest idea of consulting him. I should think it mean
to do so, considering everything."

"Mean to consult the only relative you have who can do anything for you?"

"Yes. He has told me over and over again that I have no claim on him; and, therefore, I will
make none."

Bertram had said to himself frequently that he cared nothing for this man's judgment in such
matters; but, nevertheless, after what had passed, he did desire that Harcourt should see Caroline.
He was aware, judging rather from Harcourt's tone than from his words, that that keen-sighted
friend of his had but a low opinion of Miss Waddington; that he thought that she was some ordinary,
intriguing girl, who had been baiting a hook for a husband, after the manner which scandal
states to be so common among the Littlebathians; and Bertram longed, therefore, to surprise
his eyes and astound his intellect with a view of her charms and a near knowledge of her attributes.
Nothing should be said of her beauty, and the blaze of it should fall upon him altogether unprepared.

George was right in his feelings in this respect. Harcourt had formed a very false idea of
Miss Waddington;--had led himself to imagine that she was second-rate and unattractive. In
the first place, he had his own ideas about Littlebath, and conceived that it was not the place
in which the highest beauty of England should be looked for; and in the next place, he knew
George Bertram, and regarded him as a man peculiarly liable to such dangers as these.

"You must come down with me to Littlebath. When will you give me a day?"

Harcourt demurred, as he did not wish to be called on imperiously to praise a woman of whom
he knew he should disapprove, and endeavoured to excuse himself from the journey. But Bertram
persisted, and at last it was settled that he would go down.

This did not happen till towards the end of winter. Miss Baker had, as she promised, seen Mr.
Bertram in the meantime, and the answer returned from the Hadley oracle had, like most oracle-answers,
been neither favourable nor unfavourable. Mr. Bertram had expressed no great anger at the tale
of love that was told him; but neither had he expressed any gratification. "Well," he had said,
"it is odd that they should have come together; very odd. He is a clever young man, and I dare
say may do well." Miss Baker had then ventured, but in a very modest way, to ask him his opinion
as to the sufficiency of the young people's income. "They must judge of that themselves," he
had said, rather sharply. "But I suppose they have no idea of marrying as yet. They mean to
wait, don't they, till he begins his profession?" To this Miss Baker had made no answer, and
nothing further had been said at that meeting.

Early in March, Miss Baker had again seen the great man. She had then ventured to explain to
him that George was working very hard.

"Ah! you have his word for that, I suppose," said the uncle; "but if so, believe me he will
get on at such work as that quicker without a wife than he will with one."

But at this interview Miss Baker did ask him plainly, as had been agreed beforehand between
her and her niece that she should do, whether he would on their marriage make any increase
to his granddaughter's fortune.

"She has a liberal, ladylike provision," said he.

"But they will not have enough to live on," said Miss Baker.

"They will have a third more, Mary, than I had when I married your aunt. And yet I saved money
on my income."

"But remember how they have been brought up, sir."

"If they will be fine ladies and gentlemen, they must take the penalties of being so. Fine
ladies and gentlemen cannot marry at a moment's notice, as do ploughboys and milkmaids. If
they cannot live on a limited income, they must wait." He did, however, on this occasion go
so far as to say, that if they would wait for another twelvemonth, and that if he were then
living, he would add two thousand pounds to Caroline's fortune. As to George, he had done as
much as he intended to do--certainly for the present. "George likes his own way," said the
old man, "and as far as I am concerned, he shall have it. It will be well for him to make his
own career in the world; he will be happier so than in spending my money."

On this occasion Miss Baker was permitted to tell Caroline all the circumstances of her parentage
and grandparentage. The same story might now be told to George. But they were both to be cautioned
that their relative's displeasure would be incurred by any useless repetition of it. "And,
Mary," said he, "do not let them mislead themselves. Do not let them marry with the idea that
by so doing they will inherit between them my money. I wish them both to understand that my
views are altogether different."

Miss Baker, when she returned to Littlebath, could not think that she had been successful in
her mission; and Caroline immediately declared that any idea of a marriage for that year, or
even for the next, must now be altogether out of the question. She was very much startled at
hearing that Mr. Bertram was her mother's father, but did not pretend to any suddenly intense
affection for him. "If that be so," said she, coldly, "if George and I are his only near connections,
and if he does not disapprove of our marriage, he ought to give us an income on which we can
live." It is astonishing how different are the views of grandfathers and grandchildren on such
matters!

Unfortunately there was no unanimity of opinion on this matter, either between the lovers themselves
or between them and their aunt. George was of opinion that they should marry immediately on
their present income, and trust to Providence and his exertions for a future increase. For
one year he would have the income of his fellowship; in two years and a half he would be called;
and in the meantime, he could make something by the Magazines. If Caroline was not afraid,
he was not.

But Caroline was very much afraid. It had by no means formed part of the project of her life
to live in London as a married woman on four hundred pounds a year. "She knew," she said to
Miss Baker, "what effect that would have on her husband's affections." She seemed, indeed,
to share some of Harcourt's opinions on the subject, and to have a dislike to feminine economies,
or at least to the use of them under the surveillance of a man's eye. As far as she could see,
the marriage must be postponed indefinitely--at any rate, till after George should have been
called to the bar.

Miss Baker's voice was for a middle course. She suggested that they should wait for Mr. Bertram's
two thousand pounds and then marry. They would then have an income increased to some extent.
They would also show a deference to the old man's views, which would undoubtedly--so Miss Baker
thought--have ultimate results of a most beneficial nature. "After all," as she remarked more
than once to her niece, "who else is there?"

But the young people were quite as obstinate as the old man. George would make no concession
whatever to his uncle. He was ready to marry on love and a small income, and he expected Caroline
to show an equal warmth. Caroline would by no means alter her views, or risk the misery of
an ill-provided nursery. It had been the one great resolve of her life, that she would not
be a poor man's wife. "She was ready to wait," she said. "If she could trust and wait, surely
George might do so. A man, with all the world around him, encountered neither the misery nor
the risk in waiting that fell to a girl's lot."

The disputes incidental to these different opinions did not ever take place between George
and Caroline. He, from a feeling of chivalry, abstained from discussing money matters with
her; and she, from a feeling of prudence, was equally silent with him. Poor Miss Baker was
the medium for it all. George of course would press with a lover's ardour for an early day;
and Caroline would of course say that an immediate marriage was, she found, impracticable.
And then each would refer the other to Miss Baker.

Things went on in this way till the middle of May. Sometimes George was almost angry, and wrote
letters that were somewhat savage; sometimes Caroline would be haughty, and then she too could
write letters which would tell her mind in good plain set terms. But they were not near enough,
or sufficiently often with each other, to quarrel.

So matters went on till May; and then, on one fine May-day, Harcourt and George together took
their places in the train for Littlebath.

"I wonder what you'll think of her?" said George. "Of course you'll tell the truth?"

"Oh, of course," said Harcourt, with his mind duly made up to praise her.

"You haven't the pluck to find fault with her," said George; "you would be afraid not to call
her handsome, even if you thought her as ugly as Hecate."

"Exactly," said Harcourt; "and therefore these little experimentary trips are never of any use."

CHAPTER XV.

MR. HARCOURT'S VISIT TO LITTLEBATH.

During the whole of the winter and spring, George's attention to his work had been unremitting.
Mr. Die was always prophesying still greater things, and still greater. Once a fortnight, on
every other Saturday, Bertram had gone down to Littlebath, but he had always returned to London
by the first train on Monday morning, and was always up to his elbows in law, even on that
morning, before eleven.

During the whole of this time, he had not once seen his uncle, although Miss Baker had softly
endeavoured to talk him into visiting Hadley. "I never go there without being asked," he had
said. "It is quite understood between us."

He had made but one excursion out of London, except those to Littlebath, and that had been
to Hurst Staple. Mr. Wilkinson had died very suddenly, as has been told, about the end of the
winter, and Bertram had of course not been able to see him. Arthur Wilkinson had then been
quickly put into the living, and as soon as he had taken up his residence in the parsonage,
Bertram had gone down. This visit had been made before the last walk to West Putford; but even
then the young barrister had found the young vicar in rather a plaintive mood. Wilkinson, however,
had said nothing of his love, and George was too much occupied with talking of his own heart
to think much of his cousin's.

Miss Gauntlet--I hope the reader has not altogether forgotten Adela Gauntlet--had also an aunt
living at Littlebath, Miss Penelope Gauntlet; and it so happened, that very shortly after that
memorable walk and the little scene that took place in the West Putford drawing-room, Adela
visited her aunt. Bertram, who had known her well when they were children together, had not
yet seen her there; indeed, her arrival had taken place since his last visit; but there she
was, staying with Miss Penelope Gauntlet, when he and Harcourt went down to Littlebath together.

Caroline and Adela had for years been friends. Not bosom friends, perhaps; that is, they did
not correspond three times a week, each sending to the other on each occasion three sheets
of note paper crossed over on every page from top to bottom. Caroline had certainly no such
bosom friend, and perhaps neither had Adela; but they were friends enough to call each other
by their Christian names, to lend each other music and patterns, and perhaps to write when
they had anything special to say. There had been a sort of quasi-connection between Miss Baker
and the elder Miss Gauntlet--a connection of a very faint local character--in years gone by.
Miss Baker, by reason of her Bertram relations, had been at Hurst Staple, and Miss Gauntlet
had been at West Putford at the same time. They had thus become acquainted, and the acquaintance
there had led to a Littlebath friendship. Friendships in Littlebath are not of a very fervid
description.

Miss Waddington had now been engaged for six months, and hitherto she had made no confidante.
She knew no resident at Littlebath whom she would willingly trust with her heart's secret:
her aunt, and her aunt's cognizance of the matter were quite another thing. No one could be
more affectionate than aunt Mary, no one more trustworthy, no one more thoroughly devoted to
another than she was to her niece. But then she was not only old, but old-fashioned. She was
prudent, and Caroline also was prudent; but their prudence was a different kind. There was
no dash, no ambition about aunt Mary's prudence. She was rather humdrum, Caroline thought;
and, which was worse, though she liked George Bertram, she did not seem to understand his character
at all in the same light as that in which Caroline regarded it.

From these circumstances it came to pass that Adela had not been a week at Littlebath before
she was made acquainted with the grand secret. She also had a secret of her own; but she did
not tell that in return. Secrets such as Caroline's are made to be told; but those other secrets,
those which burn up the heart instead of watering it as with a dew from heaven, those secrets
for the most part are not made to be told.

"And yet, Adela, I suppose it will never happen." This had been said on the morning of that
Saturday which was to bring down not only Bertram, but Harcourt. Caroline knew well that the
London friend, the man of the world, was being brought to inspect her, and was by no means
afraid of undergoing the inspection. She was not timid by nature; and though, as has been already
said, she was hardly yet conscious of her powers of attracting, she was never ashamed of herself.

"And why not? I think that is nonsense, Caroline. If you really thought that, you would not
receive him as you will do, nor his friend neither."

"I do think it; that is to say, I think it very probable. I cannot explain to you, Adela, all
the turns of my mind, or of my heart. I would not for worlds of gold marry a man I did not love."

"And do not you love Mr. Bertram?"

"Yes, I do; at times very, very much; but I fear the time may come when I may love him less.
You will not understand me; but the fact is, I should love him better if he were less worthy
of my love--if he were more worldly."

"No, I do not understand that," said Adela, thinking of her love, and the worldly prudence
of him who should have been her lover.

"That is it--you do not understand me; and yet it is not selfishness on my part. I would marry
a man in the hope of making him happy."

"Certainly," said Adela; "no girl should marry unless she have reasonable hope that she can
do that."

"He would wish me to go to him now, at once; when we have no sufficient income to support us."

"Four hundred a year!" said Adela, reproachfully.

"What would four hundred a year do in London? Were I to consent, in a year or two he would
be sick of me. He would be a wretched man, unless, indeed, his law-courts and his club kept
him from being wretched;--his home would not do so."

Adela silently compared the matter with her own affairs: her ideas were so absolutely different.
"If he could have contented himself to live upon potatoes," she had once thought to herself,
"I could have contented myself to live on the parings." She said nothing of this however to
Caroline. Their dispositions she knew were different. After all, it may be that Miss Waddington
had a truer knowledge of human nature.

"No, I shall not consent; I will not consent to be the cause of his misery and poverty; and
then he will be angry with me, and we shall quarrel. He can be very stern, Adela; very."

"He is impetuous; but however angry he may be, he forgives immediately. He never bears malice,"
said Adela, remembering her early dealings with the boy-friend of her girlhood.

"He can be very stern now. I know it will come to our quarrelling; and when he finds that he
cannot have his own way, that I cannot yield to him, his proud heart will revolt from me; I
know it will."

Adela could only say that were she in her friend's place she would not think so much about
income; but her gentle speech, the eloquence of which had an inward, rather than an outward
tendency, had no effect on Caroline. If Bertram could not persuade her, it certainly was not
probable that Adela Gauntlet should do so.

Messrs. Harcourt and Bertram reached Littlebath quite safely. Harcourt was to dine with the
ladies in Montpellier Crescent--it was in Montpellier Crescent that Miss Baker lived--and as
some sort of party was necessary for his honour, the curate was again invited, as were also
the two Miss Gauntlets.

"You'll go on first, I suppose?" said Harcourt, when they had secured their rooms at the "Plough,"
and were preparing to dress. Bertram was well known at the "Plough" now, and there was not
a boots or chambermaid about the house who did not know why he came to Littlebath.

"Oh, no," said Bertram, "I'll wait for you."

"I didn't know; I thought there might be some lovers' privileges to be exercised, for which
the eyes of the world might be inconvenient."

"They shall be postponed on your behalf, my dear fellow." And so the two went off together.

They found Miss Baker in her drawing-room, and with her Adela and aunt Penelope.

"And where is Caroline?" said George, when the introductions had been duly performed. He had
to make a little effort to say this in a voice that should signify that he was at home there,
but which should not savour too much of the lover. On the whole, he succeeded pretty well.

"Why, to tell the truth," said Miss Baker, laughing, "she is doing duty at this moment as head
butler in the dining-room. If you feel any vocation that way, you may go and help her."

"Well, I am a fairish good hand at drawing a cork," said Bertram, as he left the room.

"So the lovers' privileges are all arranged for," thought Harcourt to himself.

When Bertram entered the dining-room, the butler's duties seemed to be complete; at any rate,
Miss Waddington was not engaged in their performance. She was leaning on the mantel-piece,
and was apparently engaged in contemplating a bouquet of flowers which Bertram had contrived
to send to the house since his arrival at Littlebath. It was no wonder that the boots should
know all about it.

Let us agree to say nothing about the lovers' privileges. Caroline Waddington was not a girl
to be very liberal of such favours, and on the occasion in question she was not more liberal
than usual.

"Is Mr. Harcourt here?" said she.

"Yes, of course he is. He is upstairs."

"And I am to go up to be looked at. How vain you men are of your playthings! Not that you have
anything in this respect of which you ought to be vain."

"But a great deal of which I ought to be, and am, very proud. I am proud of you, Caroline;
proud at this moment that my friend should see how beautiful is the girl that loves me."

"Tush!" said Caroline, putting the back of her nosegay up to his mouth. "What delightful nonsense
you can talk. But come, your London friend won't much appreciate my excellence if I keep him
waiting for his dinner." And so they went upstairs.

But Caroline, though she laughed at her lover for showing her off, had not failed to make the
best of herself. She was sufficiently anxious that Bertram should be proud of her, should have
cause to be proud of her; and she seemed to be aware that if she could satisfy Mr. Harcourt's
fastidious judgment, she might probably hope to pass as approved of among his other friends.
She determined, therefore, to look her best as she walked into the drawing-room; and she did
look her best.

"Mr. Harcourt, my niece, Miss Waddington," said Miss Baker. Harcourt, as he rose and bowed,
was lost in wonder.

Bertram fell immediately into conversation with Miss Penelope Gauntlet, but even while listening
to her enthusiasm as to Arthur Wilkinson's luck in getting the living of Hurst Staple, and
her praise of Lord Stapledean, he contrived to keep an eye on his friend Harcourt. "Yes, indeed,
quite fortunate; wasn't it?" But as he thus spoke, his very soul within him was rejoicing at
his own triumph. He had said nothing about Caroline personally; he had refrained his tongue,
and now he had his reward.

We have said that Harcourt was lost in wonder, and such was literally the case. He had taught
himself to believe that Caroline Waddington was some tall, sharp-nosed dowdy; with bright eyes,
probably, and even teeth; with a simpering, would-be-witty smile, and full of little quick
answers such as might suit well for the assembly-rooms at Littlebath. When he heard that she
was engaged in seeing that the sherry-bottles were duly decantered, the standard of her value
did not at all rise in his estimation. Candle-ends and cold mutton would doubtless be her forte,
an economical washing-bill her strong point.

So was he thinking, much distressed in mind--for, to do him justice, he was as anxious on behalf
of Bertram as it was in his nature to be anxious for any one--when a Juno entered the room.
She did not swim in, or fly in, or glide in, but walked in, as women should walk if they properly
understood their parts. She walked in as though she were mistress of her own soul, and afraid
to meet no pair of eyes which any human being could bend upon her. He had intended in his good-nature
to patronise her; but that other question instantly occurred to him--would she patronise him?
Bertram he had known long and intimately, and held him therefore somewhat cheap in many respects,
as we are all accustomed to hold our dearest friends. But now, at once he rose in his estimation
a hundred per cent. What might not be expected of a man whom such a woman would acknowledge
that she loved?

A Juno had entered the room; for her beauty, as we have said before, was that rather of the
queen of the gods. George immediately acknowledged to himself that he had never before seen
her look so grandly beautiful. Her charms have been related, and that relation shall not be
repeated; but when first seen by Harcourt, their power was more thoroughly acknowledged by
him, much more thoroughly than they had been by her lover when he had first met her. Then,
however, she had been sitting at dinner between her aunt and Mr. M'Gabbery, quite unconscious
that any one was arriving whose existence could be of importance to her.

There was no time for conversation then. The surprise arising from her entrance had, on Harcourt's
part, hardly subsided, when the servant announced dinner, and he was called on to give his
arm to Miss Baker.

"I hope you approve your friend's choice," said that lady, smiling.

"Miss Waddington is certainly the most lovely girl I ever beheld," replied he, with enthusiasm.

The Rev. Mr. Meek handed down Miss Penelope Gauntlet, and Bertram followed with the two girls,
happy and high-spirited. He first tendered his arm to Adela, who positively refused it; then
to Caroline, who was equally determined. Then, putting a hand behind the waist of each of them,
he pushed them through the door before him. There are certainly some privileges which an accepted
lover may take in a house, and no one but an accepted lover.

George took his seat at the bottom of the table, as though he were quite at home; and Harcourt,
happy sinner! found himself seated between Adela and Caroline. He was not good enough for such
bliss. But had his virtues been ever so shining, how could they have availed him? Neither of
his neighbours had a portion of a heart left to call her own.

But he was able to perceive that Caroline was not only beautiful. She talked to him almost
exclusively, for she had capriciously seated herself away from her lover, and next to her aunt.
"Adela," she had whispered, going downstairs, "I shall look to you to talk to George all the
evening, for I mean to make a new conquest."

Bertram was delighted. It was hardly in him to be jealous, even had there been a shadow of
cause. As it was, his love was doing exactly that which he wished her to do. She was vindicating
his choice to the man whose judgment on the matter was most vitally essential to him.

When the ladies left the dining-room, both Bertram and Harcourt heartily wished that Miss Baker
had not been so scrupulously hospitable. They hardly knew what to do with Mr. Meek. Mr. Meek
remarked that Miss Baker was a very nice person, that Miss Waddington was a charming person,
that Miss Penelope Gauntlet was a very nice person indeed, and that Miss Adela was a very sweet
person; and then it seemed that all conversation was at end. "Eh! what! none especially; that
is to say, the Middle Temple." Such had been Harcourt's reply to Mr. Meek's inquiry as to what
London congregation he frequented; and then the three gentlemen seemed to be much occupied
with their wine and biscuits. This invitation to Mr. Meek had certainly been a mistake on Miss
Baker's part.

But the misery did not last long. Of the first occasion on which Mr. Meek's glass was seen
to be well empty, George took advantage. "If you don't take any more wine, Mr. Meek, we may
as well go upstairs; eh, Harcourt?" and he looked suppliantly at his friend.

"Oh, I never take any more wine, you know. I'm an anchorite on such occasions as these." And
so they went into the drawing-room, long before Miss Baker had her coffee ready for them.

"You see a good deal of Arthur now, I suppose?" said Bertram, addressing Adela.

"Yes; that is, not a very great deal. He has been busy since he took up the parish. But I see
Mary frequently."

"Do you think Arthur likes it? He seemed to me to be hardly so much gratified as I should have
thought he would have been. The living is a good one, and the marquis was certainly good-natured
about it."

"Oh, yes, he was," said Adela.

"It will be a long time, I know, before I earn five hundred pounds a year. Do you know, he
never wrote about it as though he thought he'd been lucky in getting it."

"Didn't he?"

"Never; and I thought he was melancholy and out of spirits when I saw him the other day. He
ought to marry; that's the fact. A young clergyman with a living should always get a wife."

"You are like the fox that lost its tail," said Adela, trying hard to show that she joined
in the conversation without an effort.

"Ah! but the case is very different. There can be no doubt that Arthur ought to lose his tail.
His position in the world is one which especially requires him to lose it."

"He has his mother and sisters, you know."

"Oh, mother and sisters! Mother and sisters are all very well, or not very well, as the case
may be; but the vicar of a parish should be a married man. If you can't get a wife for him
down there in Hampshire, I shall have him up to London, and look one out for him there. Pray
take the matter in hand when you go home, Miss Gauntlet."

Adela smiled, and did not blush; nor did she say that she quite agreed with him that the vicar
of a parish should be a married man.

"Well, I shan't ask any questions," said Bertram, as soon as he and Harcourt were in the street,
"or allow you to offer any opinion; because, as we have both agreed, you have not pluck enough
to give it impartially." Bertram as he said this could hardly preserve himself from a slight
tone of triumph.

"She is simply the most most lovely woman that my eyes ever beheld," said Harcourt.

"Tush! can't you make it a little more out of the common way than that? But, Harcourt, without
joke, you need not trouble yourself. I did want you to see her; but I don't care twopence as
to your liking her. I shall think much more of your wife liking her--if you ever have a wife."

"Bertram, upon my word, I never was less in a mood to joke."

"That is saying very little, for you are always in a mood to joke." Bertram understood it all;
saw clearly what impression Miss Waddington had made, and for the moment was supremely happy.

"How ever you had the courage to propose yourself and your two hundred pounds a year to such
a woman as that!"

"Ha! ha! ha! Why, Harcourt, you are not at all like yourself. If you admire her so much, I
shall beg you not to come to Littlebath any more."

"Perhaps I had better not. But, Bertram, I beg to congratulate you most heartily. There is
this against your future happiness--"

"What?"

"Why, you will never be known as Mr. George Bertram; but always as Mrs. George Bertram's husband.
With such a bride-elect as that, you cannot expect to stand on your own bottom. If you can
count on being lord-chancellor, or secretary of state, you may do so; otherwise, you'll always
be known as an appendage."

"Oh, I'll put up with that misery."

This visit of inspection had been very successful, and George went to bed in the highest spirits.
In the highest spirits also he walked to church with Harcourt, and there met the two ladies.
There was something especially rapturous in the touch of his fingers as he shook hands with
Caroline when the service was over; and Miss Baker declared that he looked almost handsome
when he went home with them to lunch.

But that afternoon his bliss was destined to receive something of a check. It was imperative
that Harcourt should be in town early on the Monday morning, and therefore it had been settled
that they should return by the latest train that Sunday evening. They would just be able to
dine with Miss Baker, and do this afterwards. Harcourt had, of course, been anxious to be allowed
to return alone; but Bertram had declined to appear to be too much in love to leave his mistress,
and had persisted that he would accompany him.

This having been so decided, he had been invited to a little conference at Miss Baker's, to
be holden upstairs in her private little sitting-room before dinner. He had had one or two
chats with Miss Baker in that same room before now, and therefore did not think so much of
the invitation; but on this occasion he also found Caroline there. He felt at once that he
was to be encountered with opposition.

Miss Baker opened the battle. "George," said she, "Caroline has made me promise to speak to
you before you go up to town. Won't you sit down?"

"Upon my word," said he, seating himself on a sofa next to Caroline; "I hardly know what to
say to it. You look so formal both of you. If I am to be condemned, my lord, I hope you'll
give me a long day."

"That's just it," said Miss Baker; "it must be a long day, I'm afraid, George."

"What do you mean?"

"Why this; we think the marriage must be put off till after you have been called. You are both
young, you know."

"Nonsense!" said George, rather too imperiously for a lover.

"Nay, but George, it is not nonsense," said Caroline, in her sweetest voice, almost imploringly.
"Don't be impetuous; don't be angry with us. It is for your sake we say so."

"For my sake!"

"Yes, for your sake; for your sake;" and she put his hand inside her arm, and almost pressed
it to her bosom. "For your sake, certainly, George; you of whom we are so much bound to think."

"Then for my own sake I disdain any such solicitude. I know the world, at any rate, as well
as either of you--"

"Ah! I am not sure of that," said Caroline.

"And I know well, that our joint income should be ample for the next four or five years. You
will have to give up your horse--"

"I should think nothing of that, George; nothing."

"And that is all. How many thousand married couples are there, do you suppose, in London, who
are now living on less than what our income will be?"

"Many thousands, doubtless. But very few, probably not one, so living happily, when the husband
has been brought up in such a manner as has been Master George Bertram."

"Caroline, my belief is, that you know nothing about it. Some of your would-be-grand friends
here in Littlebath have been frightening you on the score of income."

"I have no friend in Littlebath to whom I would condescend to speak on such a matter, except
aunt Mary." Caroline's tone as she said this showed some slight offence; but not more than
she had a right to show.

"And what do you say, aunt Mary?"

"Well, I really agree with Caroline; I really do."

"Ah, she has talked you over." This was true.

"And what is the date, Miss Waddington, that you are now kind enough to name for our wedding-day?"
asked George, in a tone half of anger and half of banter. To Caroline's ear, the anger seemed
to predominate.

"The day after you shall have been called to the bar, Mr. Bertram. That is, if the press of
two such great events together will not be too much for you."

"Of course you know that that is putting it off for nearly three years?"

"For more than two, I believe, certainly."

"And you can talk quite coolly about such a delay as that?"

"Not quite coolly, George; but, at any rate, with a fixed purpose."

"And am not I then to have a fixed purpose also?"

"Certainly, dearest, you can. You can say, if you are cruel enough, that it shall be postponed
for two years again, after that. Or you can say, if you will do so, that under such circumstances
you will not marry me at all. We have each got what you lawyers call a veto. Now, George, I
put my veto upon poverty for you, and discomfort, and an untidy house, and the perils of a
complaining, fretful wife. If I can ever assist you to be happy, and prosperous, and elate
before the world, I will try my best to do so; but I will not come to you like a clog round
your neck, to impede all your efforts in your first struggle at rising. If I can wait, George,
surely you can? An unfulfilled engagement can be no impediment to a man, whatever it may be
to a girl."

It may have been perceived by this time that Miss Waddington was not a person easy to be talked
over. On this occasion, Bertram failed altogether in moving her. Even though at one moment
aunt Mary had almost yielded to him, Caroline remained steady as a rock. None of his eloquence--and
he was very eloquent on the occasion--changed her at all. She became soft in her tone, and
affectionate, almost caressing in her manner; but nothing would induce her to go from her point.
Bertram got on a very high horse, and spoke of the engagement as being thus practically broken
off. She did not become angry, or declare that she took him at his word; but with a low voice
she said that she was aware that her determination gave him an option in the matter. He would
certainly be justified in so resolving; nay, might do so without the slightest stain upon his
faith. She herself would not violate the truth by saying that such a decision would give her
pleasure; that it would--would-- Here for the first time she became rather agitated, and before
she could finish, George was at her feet, swearing that he could not, would not live without
her; that she knew that he could not, and would not do so.

And so the little conference ended. George had certainly gained nothing. Caroline had gained
this, that she had made known her resolution, and had, nevertheless, not lost her lover. To
all the expressions of her determination not to marry till George should be a barrister, aunt
Mary had added a little clause--that such decision might at any moment be changed by some new
act of liberality on the part of uncle Bertram. In aunt Mary's mind, the rich uncle, the rich
grandfather, was still the god that was to come down upon the stage and relieve them from their
great difficulty.

As George returned to town with his friend, his love was not quite so triumphant as it had
been that morning on his road to church.

END OF VOL. II. II.

      I. THE NEW MEMBER FOR THE BATTERSEA HAMLETS.
     II. RETROSPECTIVE.--FIRST YEAR.
    III. RETROSPECTIVE.--SECOND YEAR.
     IV. RICHMOND.
      V. JUNO.
     VI. SIR LIONEL IN TROUBLE.
    VII. MISS TODD'S CARD-PARTY.
   VIII. THREE LETTERS.
     IX. BIDDING HIGH.
      X. DOES HE KNOW IT YET?
     XI. HURST STAPLE.
    XII. THE WOUNDED DOE.
   XIII. THE SOLICITOR-GENERAL IN LOVE.
    XIV. MRS. LEAKE OF RISSBURY.
     XV. MARRIAGE-BELLS.

THE BERTRAMS.

CHAPTER I.

THE NEW MEMBER FOR THE BATTERSEA HAMLETS.

I must now ask my readers to pass over two years with me. It is a terrible gap in a story;
but in these days the unities are not much considered, and a hiatus which would formerly have
been regarded as a fault utterly fatal is now no more than a slight impropriety.

But something must be told of the occurrences of these two years. In the first place, no marriage
had taken place--that is, among our personages; nor had their ranks been thinned by any death.
In our retrospective view we will give the pas to Mr. Harcourt, for he had taken the greatest
stride in winning that world's success, which is the goal of all our ambition. He had gone
on and prospered greatly; and nowadays all men at the bar said all manner of good things of
him. He was already in Parliament as the honourable member for the Battersea Hamlets, and was
not only there, but listened to when it suited him to speak. But when he did speak, he spoke
only as a lawyer. He never allowed himself to be enticed away from his own profession by the
meretricious allurements of general politics. On points of law reform, he had an energetic
opinion; on matters connected with justice, he had ideas which were very much his own--or which
at least were stated in language which was so; being a denizen of the common law, he was loud
against the delays and cost of Chancery, and was supposed to have supplied the legal details
of a very telling tale which was written about this time with the object of upsetting the lord-chancellor
as then constituted.

But though he worked as a member only in legal matters, of course he was always ready to support
his party with his vote in all matters. His party! here had been his great difficulty on first
entering the House of Commons. What should be his party?

He had worked hard as a lawyer. In so doing no party had been necessary to him. Honest hard
work--honest, that is, as regarded the work itself, if not always so as regarded the object.
Honest hard work, and some cunning in the method of his eloquence, had at first sufficed him.
He was not called upon to have, or at any rate to state, any marked political tenets. But no
man can rise to great note as a lawyer without a party. Opulence without note would by no means
have sufficed with Mr. Harcourt.

When, therefore, he found it expedient in the course of his profession to go into Parliament,
and with this object presented himself to the inhabitants of the Battersea Hamlets, it was
necessary that he should adopt a party. At that time the political watchword of the day was
the repeal of the corn laws. Now the electors of the Battersea Hamlets required especially
to know whether Mr. Harcourt was or was not for free trade in corn.

To tell the truth, he did not care two straws about corn. He cared only for law--for that and
what was to be got by it. It was necessary that he should assume some care for corn--learn
a good deal about it, perhaps, so as to be able, if called on, to talk on the subject by the
hour at a stretch; but it was not a matter on which he was personally solicitous a fortnight
or so before he began his canvass.

The Conservatives were at that time in, and were declared foes to free trade in corn. They
were committed to the maintenance of a duty on imported wheat--if any men were ever politically
committed to anything. Indeed, it had latterly been their great shibboleth--latterly; that
is, since their other greater shibboleths had been cut from under their feet.

At that time men had not learnt thoroughly by experience, as now they have, that no reform,
no innovation--experience almost justifies us in saying no revolution--stinks so foully in
the nostrils of an English Tory politician as to be absolutely irreconcilable to him. When
taken in the refreshing waters of office any such pill can be swallowed. This is now a fact
recognized in politics; and it is a great point gained in favour of that party that their power
of deglutition should be so recognized. Let the people want what they will, Jew senators, cheap
corn, vote by ballot, no property qualification, or anything else, the Tories will carry it
for them if the Whigs cannot. A poor Whig premier has none but the Liberals to back him; but
a reforming Tory will be backed by all the world--except those few whom his own dishonesty
will personally have disgusted.

But at that time--some twelve or fifteen years since--all this was not a part of the political
A B C; and Harcourt had much doubt in his own mind as to the party which ought to be blessed
with his adherence. Lord chancellorships and lord chief-justiceships, though not enjoyed till
middle life, or, indeed, till the evening of a lawyer's days, must, in fact, be won or lost
in the heyday of his career. One false step in his political novitiate may cost him everything.
A man when known as a recognized Whig may fight battle after battle with mercenary electors,
sit yawning year after year till twelve o'clock, ready to attack on every point the tactics
of his honourable and learned friend on the Treasury seats, and yet see junior after junior
rise to the bench before him--and all because at starting he decided wrongly as to his party.

If Harcourt had predilections, they were with the Whigs; but he was not weak enough to let
any predilection be a burden to his interests. Where was the best opening for him? The Tories--I
still prefer the name, as being without definite meaning; the direct falsehood implied in the
title of Conservative amounts almost to a libel--the Tories were in; but from the fact of being
in, were always liable to be turned out. Then, too, they were of course provided with attorneys
and solicitors-general, lords-advocate and legal hangers-on of every sort. The coming chances
might be better with the Whigs.

Under these circumstances, he went to his old friend Mr. Die, Mr. Neversaye Die, the rich,
quiet, hard-working, old chancery barrister, to whose fostering care he had some time since
recommended his friend Bertram. Every one has some quiet, old, family, confidential friend;
a man given to silence, but of undoubted knowledge of the world, whose experience is vast,
and who, though he has not risen in the world himself, is always the man to help others to
do so. Every one has such a friend as this, and Mr. Neversaye Die was Harcourt's friend. Mr.
Die himself was supposed to be a Tory, quite of the old school, a Lord Eldon Tory; but Harcourt
knew that this would in no way bias his judgment. The mind of a barrister who has been for
fifty years practising in court will never be biassed by his predilections.

Mr. Die soon understood the whole matter. His young friend Harcourt was going into Parliament
with the special object of becoming a solicitor-general as soon as possible. He could so become
by means only of two moving powers. He must be solicitor-general either to the Whigs or to
the Tories. To which he should be so was a question mainly indifferent to Mr. Harcourt himself,
and also to Mr. Die in framing his advice.

Mr. Die himself of course regarded corn-law repeal as an invention of the devil. He had lived
long enough to have regarded Catholic emancipation and parliamentary reform in the same light.
Could you have opened his mind, you would probably have found there a settled conviction that
the world was slowly coming to an end, that end being brought about by such devilish works
as these. But you would also have found a conviction that the Three per Cents. would last his
time, and that his fear for the future might with safety be thrown forward, so as to appertain
to the fourth or fifth, or, perhaps, even to the tenth or twelfth coming generation. Mr. Die
was not, therefore, personally wretched under his own political creed.

"I should be inclined to support the government if I were going into Parliament as a young
man," said Mr. Die.

"There are nine seniors of mine in the House who now do so." By seniors, Mr. Harcourt alluded
to his seniors at the bar.

"Yes; but they like young blood nowadays. I think it's the safest."

"I shall never carry the Battersea Hamlets unless I pledge myself on this corn-law question."

"Well," said Mr. Die--"well; a seat is certainly a great thing, and not to be had at any moment.
I think I should be inclined to yield to the electors."

"And commit myself to the repeal of the corn laws?"

"Commit yourself!" said Mr. Die, with a gentle smile. "A public man has to commit himself to
many things nowadays. But my opinion is, that--that you may hold the popular opinion about
free trade, and be not a whit the less useful to Sir Robert on that account."

Mr. Harcourt was still a young man, and was, therefore, excusable in not seeing to the depth
of Mr. Die's wisdom. He certainly did not see to the depth of it; but he had come to his oracle
with faith, and wisely resolved to be guided by wisdom so much superior to his own.

"Never bind yourself wantonly to an expiring policy," said Mr. Die. "The man who does so has
surely to unbind himself; and, to say the least of it, that always takes time."

So Mr. Harcourt presented himself to the electors of the Battersea Hamlets as a man very anxious
in their behalf in all things, but anxious in their behalf above all things for free trade
in corn. "Is it credible, that now, in this year of grace 184--,--" and so on. Such were the
eloquent words which he addressed to the electors on this subject, and so taken were they by
his enthusiasm that they returned him by a large majority.

Mr. Dod, therefore, in his remarkably useful little parliamentary compendium, put down Mr.
Harcourt as a liberal: this he had an opportunity of doing immediately after Mr. Harcourt's
election: in his next edition, however, he added, "but supports the general policy of Sir Robert
Peel's government."

Mr. Harcourt had altogether managed this little affair so well that, despite his youth, despite
also those nine political seniors of his, men began to talk of him as one who might shortly
hope to fill high places. He made himself very useful in the House, and did so in a quiet,
business-like, unexciting manner, very pleasant to the leading politician of the Treasury bench.

And then there came the Irish famine, and all the bindings of all the Tories were scattered
to the winds like feathers. The Irishman's potato-pot ceased to be full, and at once the great
territorial magnates of England were convinced that they had clung to the horns of a false
altar. They were convinced; or at least had to acknowledge such conviction. The prime minister
held short little debates with his underlings--with dukes and marquises, with earls and viscounts;
held short debates with them, but allowed to no underling--to no duke, and to no viscount--to
have any longer an opinion of his own. The altar had been a false altar: it was enough for
them that they were so told. With great wisdom the majority of them considered that this was
enough; and so the bill for the repeal of the corn laws was brought before the House, and the
world knew that it would be carried.

And now there was a great opportunity for Mr. Harcourt. He could support the prime minister
and merit all manner of legal generalships without any self-unbinding. Alas! such comfort as
this can only belong to the young among politicians! Up to this period he had meddled only
with law questions. Now was the time for him to come out with that great liberal speech, which
should merit the eternal gratitude of the Tory leader. Just at the time at which we recommence
our tale he did come out with a very great liberal speech, in which, as an independent member,
he vehemently eulogized the daring policy of that great man who, as he said, was brave enough,
and wise enough, and good enough to save his country at the expense of his party. Whether there
were not men who could have saved their country without betraying their friends--who would
have done so had not Sir Robert been ready with his apostacy; who in fact did so by forcing
Sir Robert to his apostacy--as to that, Mr. Harcourt then said nothing. What might not be expected
from the hands of a man so eulogized? of a man who was thus able to keep the votes of the Tories
and carry the measures of the Liberals? of a man of whom it might now be predicated that his
political power would end only with his political life? We should be going on too fast were
we to declare in how few months after this triumph that great political chieftain was driven
from the Treasury bench.

Mr. Harcourt's name was now mentioned in all clubs and all dining-rooms. He was an acute and
successful lawyer, an eloquent debater, and a young man. The world was at his feet, and Mr.
Die was very proud of him. Mr. Die was proud of him, and proud also of his own advice. He said
nothing about it even to Harcourt himself, for to Mr. Die had been given the gift of reticence;
but his old eye twinkled as his wisdom was confessed by the youth at his feet. "In politics
one should always look forward," he said, as he held up to the light the glass of old port
which he was about to sip; "in real life it is better to look back,--if one has anything to
look back at." Mr. Die had something to look back at. He had sixty thousand pounds in the funds.

And now we must say a word of Mr. Harcourt, with reference to the other persons of our story.
He was still very intimate with Bertram, but he hardly regarded him in the same light as he
had done two years before. Bertram had not hitherto justified the expectation of his friends.
This must be explained more at length in the next two chapters; but the effect on Harcourt
had been that he no longer looked up with reverence to his friend's undoubted talents. He had
a lower opinion of him than formerly. Indeed, he himself had risen so quickly that he had left
Bertram immeasurably below him, and the difference in their pursuits naturally brought them
together less frequently than heretofore.

But if Harcourt was less concerned than he had been with George Bertram junior, he was much
more concerned than he had been with George Bertram senior. He had in former days known nothing
of the old merchant; now he was, within certain bounds, almost intimate with him; occasionally
dined down at Hadley, and frequently consulted him on money matters of deep import.

With Miss Baker, also, and Caroline Waddington, Mr. Harcourt was intimate. Between him and
Miss Baker there existed a warm friendship, and with Caroline, even, he was on such terms that
she often spoke to him as to the deep troubles of her love and engagement. For these were deep
troubles, as will be seen also in the coming chapters.

George Bertram had been told by Miss Baker that Caroline was the granddaughter of old Mr. Bertram,
and George in his confidence with his friend had told him the secret. Indeed, there had been
hardly any alternative, for George had been driven to consult his friend more than once as
to this delay in his marriage; and who can ever consult a friend with advantage on any subject
without telling him all the circumstances?

It was after this that Harcourt and Miss Baker became so intimate. The ladies at Littlebath
had many troubles, and during those troubles the famous young barrister was very civil to them.
In the latter of those two years that are now gone, circumstances had brought them up to London
for a couple of months in the spring; and then they saw much of Mr. Harcourt, but nothing of
George Bertram, though George was still the affianced husband of Miss Waddington.

CHAPTER II.

RETROSPECTIVE.--FIRST YEAR.

George Bertram had returned to town that Sunday after the conference in Miss Baker's little
room not in the very best of moods. He had talked glibly enough on his way back, because it
had been necessary for him to hide his chagrin; but he had done so in a cynical tone, which
had given Harcourt to understand that something was wrong. For some ten days after that there
had been no intercourse between him and Littlebath; and then he had written a letter to Caroline,
full of argument, full also of tenderness, in which he essayed to move her from her high resolve.
He had certainly written strongly, if not well. "He was working," he said, "nearly as hard
as a man could work, in order to insure success for her. Nothing he was aware but the idea
that he was already justified in looking on her as his wife would have induced him to labour
so strictly; and for this he was grateful to her. She had given him this great and necessary
incitement; and he therefore thanked God that he had on his shoulders the burden, as well as
in his heart the blessing, of such an engagement. But the strain would be too great for him
if the burden were to remain present to him daily, while the blessing was to be postponed for
so long a time. He had already felt his spirits numbed and his energy weakened. It seemed to
him in all his daily work that his great hope had been robbed from him. His dreams told him
that he was to be happy, but his waking moments brought him back to disappointment. He knew
that he could not endure it, that he could not remain there at his post, diligent as he fain
would be, if his reward were to be postponed for so long. As being under a holy engagement
to you," he wrote, perhaps almost too solemnly, "I have given up that sort of life to which
my natural disposition might have led me. Do not suppose that I say this with regret. I rejoice
to have done so, rejoice to be so doing; but it is for you that I do it. Should I not look
to you for my reward? Granting that there may be risk, shall not I share it? Supposing that
there may be suffering, shall not I endure it? And if a man with his best efforts may protect
a woman from suffering, I will protect you." So he had written, and had ended by imploring
her to let them be married that autumn.

By return of post he got three lines from her, calling him her dearest, dearest George, and
requesting that he would allow her a week to answer his letter at length. It could not be answered
without deep thought. This gratified him much, and he wrote another note to her, begging her
on no account to hurry herself; that he would wait for her reply with the utmost patience;
but again imploring her to be merciful. It was, however, apparent in the tone of his note,
apparent at least to Caroline, that he judged the eloquence of his letter to be unanswerable,
and that he was already counting on her surrender. This lessened the effect of it on Caroline's
heart;--for when first received it had had a strong effect.

On that first morning, when she read it in her bedroom before she went down to breakfast, it
certainly had a strong effect on her. She made up her mind that she would say nothing about
it to her aunt, at any rate on that day. Her aunt would have advised her to yield at once,
and she would have preferred some counsellor of a sterner sort. So she put the letter in her
pocket, went down tranquilly to breakfast, and after breakfast wrote the note which we have
mentioned.

All that day she thought about it to herself, and all the next day. On the evening of the second
day she had all but brought herself to give in. Then came George's note, and the fancied tone
of triumph hardened her heart once more. On the evening of that day she was firm to her principles.
She had acted hitherto, and would continue to act, according to the course she had laid down
for herself.

On the fourth day she was sitting in the drawing-room alone--for her aunt had gone out of Littlebath
for the day--when Adela Gauntlet came to call on her. Adela she knew would counsel her to yield,
and therefore she would certainly not have gone to Adela for advice. But she was sad at heart;
and sitting there with the letter among her threads and needles before her, she gradually found
it impossible not to talk of it--to talk of it, and at last to hand it over to be read.

There could be no doubt at all as to the nature of Adela's advice; but Caroline had had no
conception of the impetuosity of matured conviction on the subject, of the impassioned eloquence
with which that advice would be given. She had been far from thinking that Adela had any such
power of passion.

"Well," said she, as Adela slowly folded the sheet and put it back into its envelope; "well;
what answer shall I make to it?"

"Can you doubt, Caroline?" said Adela, and Miss Gauntlet's eyes shone as Caroline had never
before seen them shine.

"Indeed, I do doubt; doubt very much. Not that I ought to doubt. What I knew to be wise a week
ago, I know also to be wise now. But one is so weak, and it is so hard to refuse those whom
we love."

"Hard, indeed!" said Adela. "To my thinking, a woman would have a stone instead of a heart
who could refuse such a request as that from a man to whom she has confessed her love."

"But because you love a man, would you wish to make a beggar of him?"

"We are too much afraid of what we call beggary," said Adela. "Beggary, Caroline, with four
hundred pounds a year! You had no right to accept a man if you intended to decline to live
with him on such an income as that. He should make no request; it should come from him as a
demand."

"A demand. No; his time for demands has not yet come."

"But it has come if you are true to your word. You should have thought of all this, and no
doubt did think of it, before you accepted him. You have no right now to make him wretched."

"And, therefore, I will not make him poor."

"Poor, poor! How fearfully afraid we are of poverty! Is there nothing worse than poverty, what
you call poverty--poverty that cannot have its gowns starched above once a week?" Caroline
stared at her, but Adela went on. "Broken hearts are not half so bad as that; nor daily tears
and disappointed hopes, nor dry, dull, dead, listless despondency without one drop of water
to refresh it! All that is as nothing to a well-grounded apprehension as to one's larder! Never
marry till you are sure that will be full, let the heart be ever so empty."

"Adela!"

"For others there may be excuse," she continued, thinking then, as always, of that scene at
West Putford, and defending to herself him whom to herself she so often accused; "but for you
there can be none. If you drive him from you now, whatever evil may befall him will lie like
a weight of lead upon your heart. If you refuse him now, he is not the man to take it quietly
and wait."

"I can live without him."

"Yes; it is your pride to say so; and I believe you could live without him. But I think too
well of you to believe that you could live happily without him; nor will he be happy without
you. You will both be proud, and stony-hearted, and wretched--stony-hearted at least in appearance;
not fortunate enough to become so in reality."

"Why, Adela, one would think that you yourself were the victim of some passion nipped in its
bud by a cruel prudence."

"And so I am." As she said this she rose from her seat as though she intended, standing there
before her companion, to go on with her impassioned warning. But the effect was too much for
her; and falling down on her knees, with her face buried in her hands, she rested them on the
sofa, and gave way to sobs and tears.

Caroline was of course much shocked, and did what she could to relieve her; but Adela merely
begged that she might be left to herself one minute. "One minute," she said, plaintively, in
a voice so different from that she had used just now; "one minute and I shall be well again.
I have been very foolish, but never say anything about it; never, never, not to any one; promise
me, promise me, Caroline. Dear Caroline, you do promise me? No one knows it; no one must know it."

Caroline did promise; but with a natural curiosity she wanted to know the whole story. Adela,
however, would tell her nothing, would say no more about herself. In the agony of her strong
feeling she had once pointed to herself as a beacon; but even she herself could not endure
to do this again. She would say nothing further about that; but in a more plaintive and softer
tone she did not cease to implore her friend not to throw away from her the rich heart which
was still within her grasp.

A scene such as this could not but have an effect on Caroline; but it did not ultimately have
that which Adela had wished. It was Miss Waddington's doctrine that she should not under any
circumstances of life permit herself to be carried away by passion. Why then should she allow
Adela's passion to convince her? What were the facts? Of Adela's own case she knew nothing.
It might be that she had been cruelly treated. Her friends, her lover, or even she herself
might have been in fault. But it would surely be the extreme of folly for her, Caroline Waddington,
to allow herself to be actuated by the example of one who had not even shown her of what that
example consisted.

The upshot of it all was, that at the end of the week she wrote to George, declaring that,
grieved as she was to grieve him, she felt herself obliged to adhere to her former resolution.
She also wrote strongly, and perhaps with more force of logic than her lover had done. "I trust
the time will come," she said, "when you will acknowledge that I have been right. But of this
I am quite sure, that were I now to yield to you, the time would come very quickly when you
would acknowledge me to have been wrong; and that you should then think me to have been wrong
would kill me. I am not, I know, fitted, either by disposition or education, to be a poor man's
wife. I say this with no pride; though if you choose to take it for pride, I cannot help myself.
Nor are you fitted to be the husband of a poor wife. Your love and enthusiasm now make you
look on want as a slight evil; but have you ever tried want? Since you left school, have you
not had everything that money could buy you? Have you ever been called on to deny yourself
any reasonable wish? Never, I believe. Nor have I. What right have we then to suppose that
we can do that for each other which we have never yet done for ourselves?

"You talk of the misery of waiting. Is it not because you have as yet known no misery? Have
not all men to wait who look for success in life?--to work, and wait, and bide their time?
Your present work is, I know, too hard. In whatever you do, you have too much enthusiasm. Do
not kill yourself by work. For my sake, if I may still plead my own sake, do not do so. You
say you have given up that sort of life to which your disposition would have led you. I do
not believe your disposition to be bad, and I should be grieved to think that you debar yourself
from pleasures that are not bad because you are engaged to me." There was that in the eagerness
of Bertram's protestations on this point which could not but be flattering to any girl; but
Caroline, when she thought of it, did not wish to be so flattered. She required less passion
in her lover and more judgment. She wanted him to be more awake to the fact that the true meaning
of their engagement was this, that they two should join themselves together in their world's
battle, in order that together each might fight that battle more successfully than either of
them could do apart.

"I write this with great grief," she continued, "as I know that what I write will grieve you.
But I write it under a conviction that I am doing my duty by you. I am ready, however, to acknowledge
that such a delay may not be in consonance with your intentions when you proposed to me. That
neither of us have deceived the other wilfully I am quite sure; but it may be that we have
misunderstood each other. If so, dear George, let all this be as though it had never been.
I do not say this on my own behalf. If you so wish it, I am ready to hold myself as yours,
and to wait. Ready, I have said! That is a cold word, and you may supply any other that your
heart wishes. But if this waiting be contrary to your wishes, be what you are not willing to
endure, then consider the matter as altogether in your own hands. I certainly have no right
to bind you to my will; all that I ask in such case is, that your decision shall not be delayed."

Such was Miss Waddington's letter; a portion of it, at least, for not above the half has been
given here. Its effect upon Bertram had not been exhilarating. In his heart he called her cold
and heartless, and at first resolved to take her at her word and break off from her. He would
willingly have done so as far as she was concerned; but he could not bring himself to do it
on his own part. He could not endure to part with her, though he would willingly have punished
her by telling her that she had forfeited her claim to him. As it was, he did nothing. For
three weeks he neither answered the letter nor went near her, nor gave her any token that he
was thinking about her.

Then came a note from Miss Baker, asking him to come to Littlebath. It was good-humoured, playful,
almost witty; too much so for Miss Baker's unassisted epistle-craft, and he at once saw that
Caroline had dictated it. Her heart at any rate was light. He answered it by one equally good-humoured
and playful, and perhaps more witty, addressed of course to Miss Baker, in which he excused
himself at present in consequence of the multiplicity of his town engagements. It was June,
and he could not get away without making himself guilty of all manner of perjuries; but in
August he would certainly take Littlebath on his way to Scotland.

He had intended that every light word should be a dagger in Caroline's bosom; but there was
not a pin's prick in the whole of it. Sullen grief on his part would have hurt her. And it
would have hurt her had he taken her at her word and annulled their engagement; for she had
begun to find that she loved him more than she had thought possible. She had talked in her
prudence, and written in her prudence, of giving him up; but when the time came in which she
might expect a letter from him, saying that so it should be, her heart did tremble at the postman's
knock; she did feel that she had something to fear. But his joyous, clever, laughing answer
to her aunt was all that she could wish. Though she loved him, she could wait; though she loved
him, she did not wish him to be sad when he was away from her. She had reason and measure in
her love; but it was love, as she began to find--almost to her own astonishment.

George had alluded not untruly to his own engagements. On the day after he received Caroline's
letter he shut up Coke upon Lyttleton for that term, and shook the dust off his feet on the
threshold of Mr. Die's chambers. Why should he work? why sit there filling his brain with cobwebs,
pouring over old fusty rules couched in obscure language, and useful only for assisting mankind
to cheat each other? He had had an object; but that was gone. He had wished to prove to one
heart, to one soul, that, young as he was, poor as he was, she need not fear to trust herself
to his guardianship. Despite his musty toils, she did fear. Therefore, he would have no more
of them. No more of them at any rate then, while the sun was shining so brightly. So he went
down to Richmond with Twisleton and Madden, and Hopgood and Fortescue. Heaven knows what they
did when they got back to town that night--or, rather, perhaps heaven's enemy. And why not?
Caroline did not care whether or no he amused himself as other men do. For her sake he had
kept himself from these things. As she was indifferent, why need he care? He cared no longer.
There was no more law that term; no more eulogy from gratified Mr. Die; but of jovial days
at Richmond or elsewhere there were plenty; plenty also of jovial Bacchanalian nights in London.
Miss Waddington had been very prudent; but there might perhaps have been a prudence yet more
desirable.

He did go down to Littlebath on his way to Scotland, and remained there three days. He made
up his mind as he journeyed down to say nothing about their late correspondence to Caroline
till she should first speak of it; and as she had come to an exactly similar resolution on
her part, and as both adhered to their intentions, it so fell out that nothing in the matter
was said by either of them. Caroline was quite satisfied; but not so Bertram. He again said
to himself that she was cold and passionless; as cold as she is beautiful, he declared as he
walked home to the "Plough." How very many young gentlemen have made the same soliloquy when
their mistresses have not been so liberal as they would have had them!

The lovers passed the three days together at Littlebath with apparent satisfaction. They rode
together, and walked together, and on one evening danced together; nay, they talked together,
and Miss Baker thought that everything was smooth. But Bertram, as he went off to Scotland,
said to himself that she was very, very cold, and began to question with himself whether she
did really love him.

"Do write to me, and tell me what sport you have," Caroline had said when he went away. What
a subject for a woman to choose for her lover's letters! She never said, "Write, write often;
and always when you write, swear that you love me." "Oh, yes, I'll write," said Bertram, laughing.
"I'll give you a succinct account of every brace." "And send some of them too," said Miss Baker.
"Certainly," said George; and so he did.

He was joined with Harcourt and one or two others in this trip to Scotland, and it was then
that he told his friend how much he was disturbed by Miss Waddington's obstinacy; and how he
doubted, not as to her heart being his, but as to her having a heart to belong to any one.
In answer to this, Harcourt gave him pretty nearly the same counsel as she had done. "Wait,
my dear fellow, with a little patience; you'll have lots of time before you for married troubles.
What's the use of a man having half-a-score of children round him just when he is beginning
to enjoy life? It is that that Miss Waddington thinks about; though, of course, she can't tell
you so."

And then, also--that is to say, on some occasion a little subsequent to the conversation above
alluded to--Bertram also told his friend what he knew of Miss Waddington's birth.

"Whew-w-w," whistled Harcourt; "is that the case? Well, now I am surprised."

"It is, indeed."

"And he has agreed to the marriage?"

"He knows of it, and has not disagreed. Indeed, he made some peddling little offer about money."

"But what has he said to you about it?"

"Nothing, not a word. I have only seen him once since Christmas, and then I did not speak of
it; nor did he."

Harcourt asked fifty other questions on the matter, all eagerly, as though he considered this
newly-learned fact to be of the greatest importance: all of which Bertram answered, till at
last he was tired of talking of his uncle.

"I cannot see that it makes any difference," said he, "whose granddaughter she is."

"But it does make the greatest difference. I own that I am surprised now that Miss Waddington
should wish to delay the marriage. I thought I understood her feelings and conduct on the matter,
and must say that I regarded them as admirable. But I cannot quite understand her now. It certainly
seems to me that with such a guarantee as that she needs be afraid of nothing. Whichever of
you he selected, it would come to the same thing."

"Harcourt, if she would marry me to-morrow because by doing so she would make sure of my uncle's
money, by heaven, I would not take her! If she will not take me for myself, and what I can
do for her, she may let me alone." Thus majestically spoke Bertram, sitting with his friend
on the side of a Scottish mountain, with a flask of brandy and a case of sandwiches between them.

"Then," said Harcourt, "you are an ass;" and as he spoke he finished the flask.

Bertram kept his word, and told his lady-love all particulars as to the game he killed; some
particulars also he gave her as to scenery, as to his friends, and as to Scotch people. He
wrote nice, chatty, amusing letters, such as most people love to get from their friends; but
he said little or nothing about love. Once or twice he ventured to tell her of some pretty
girl that he met, of some adventure with a laird's daughter; nay, insinuated laughingly that
he had not escaped from it quite heart-whole. Caroline answered his letter in the same tone;
told him, with excellent comedy, of the leading facts of life in Littlebath; recommended him
by all means to go back after the laird's daughter; described the joy of her heart at unexpectedly
meeting Mr. M'Gabbery in the pump-room, and her subsequent disappointment at hearing that there
was now a Mrs. M'Gabbery. He had married that Miss Jones, of whom the parental Potts had so
strongly disapproved. All this was very nice, very amusing, and very friendly. But Bertram,
as a lover, knew that he was not satisfied.

When he had done with the grouse and the laird's daughter he went to Oxford, but he did not
then go again to Littlebath. He went to Oxford, and from thence to Arthur Wilkinson's parsonage.
Here he saw much of Adela; and consoled himself by talking with her about Caroline. To her
he did not conceal his great anger. While he was still writing good-humoured, witty letters
to his betrothed, he was saying of her to Adela Gauntlet things harsh--harsher perhaps in that
they were true.

"I had devoted myself to her," he said. "I was working for her as a galley-slave works, and
was contented to do it. I would have borne anything, risked anything, endured anything, if
she would have borne it with me. All that I have should have gone to shield her from discomfort.
I love her still, Miss Gauntlet; it is perhaps my misery that I love her. But I can never love
her now as I should have done had she come to me then."

"How can I work now?" he said again. "I shall be called to the bar of course; there is no difficulty
in that; and may perhaps earn what will make us decently respectable. But the spirit, the high
spirit is gone. She is better pleased that it should be so. She is intolerant of enthusiasm.
Is it not a pity, Miss Gauntlet, that we should be so different?"

What could Adela say to him? Every word that he uttered was to her a truth--a weary, melancholy
truth; a repetition of that truth which was devouring her own heart. She sympathized with him
fully, cordially, ardently. She said no word absolutely in dispraise of Caroline; but she admitted,
and at last admitted so often, that, according to her thinking, Caroline was wrong.

"Wrong!" Bertram would shout. "Can there be a doubt? Can any one with a heart doubt?" Adela
said, "No; no one with a heart could doubt."

"She has no heart," said Bertram. "She is lovely, clever, fascinating, elegant. She has everything
a woman should have except a heart--except a heart." And then, as he turned away his face,
Adela could see that he brushed his hand across his eyes.

What could she do but weep too? And is it not known to all men--certainly it is to all women--how
dangerous are such tears?

Thus during his stay at Hurst Staple, Bertram was frequently at West Putford. But he observed
that Adela was not often at his cousin's vicarage, and that Arthur was very seldom at West
Putford. The families, it was clear, were on as good terms as ever. Adela and Mary and Sophia
would be together, and old Mr. Gauntlet would dine at Hurst Staple, and Arthur would talk about
the old rector freely enough. But Bertram rarely saw Adela unless he went to the rectory, and
though he dined there with the Wilkinson girls three or four times, Arthur only dined there once.

"Have you and Arthur quarrelled?" said he to Adela one day, laughing as he spoke.

"Oh, no," said she; but she could not keep down her rebellious colour as she answered him,
and Bertram at once took the hint. To her he said nothing further on that matter.

"And why don't you marry, Arthur?" he asked the next morning.

And Arthur also blushed, not thinking then of Adela Gauntlet, but of that pledge which he had
given to Lord Stapledean--a pledge of which he had repented every day since he had given it.

And here it may be explained, that as Arthur Wilkinson had repented of that pledge, and had
felt more strongly from day to day that it had put him in a false and unworthy position, so
did his mother from day to day feel with less force the compunction which she had at first
expressed as to receiving her son's income. This had become less and less, and now, perhaps,
it could no longer boast of an existence. The arrangement seemed to her to be so essentially
a good one, her children were provided for in so convenient and so comfortable a manner, it
was so natural that she should regard herself as the mistress of that house, that perhaps no
blame is due to her in that this compunction ceased. No blame is now heaped upon her, and the
fact is merely stated. She had already learned to regard herself as the legal owner of that
ecclesiastical income; and seeing that her son deducted a stipend of one hundred and fifty
pounds for merely doing the duty--a curate would have only had the half of that sum, as she
sometimes said to herself--and seeing also that he had his fellowship, she had no scruple in
making him pay fairly for whatever extra accommodation he received at home--exactly as she
would have done had poor dear old Mr. Wilkinson not been out of the way. Considering all these
comfortable circumstances, poor dear old Mr. Wilkinson was perhaps not regretted quite so much
as might otherwise have been the case.

Mrs. Wilkinson was in the habit of saying many things from day to day in praise of that good
Lord Stapledean, who had so generously thought of her and her widowhood. When she did so Arthur
would look grim and say nothing, and his mother would know that he was displeased. "Surely
he cannot begrudge us the income," she had once said to her eldest daughter. "Oh, no; I am
sure he does not," said Mary; "but, somehow, he is not so happy about things as he used to
be." "Then he must be a very ungrateful boy," said the mother. Indeed, what more could a young
full-fledged vicar want than to have a comfortable house under his mother's apron-string?

"And why don't you marry?" Bertram had asked his cousin. It was odd that Arthur should not
marry, seeing that Adela Gauntlet lived so near him, and that Adela was so very, very beautiful.

Up to that day, Bertram had heard nothing of the circumstances under which the living had been
given. Then did Wilkinson tell him the story, and ended by saying--"You now see that my marriage
is quite out of the question."

Then Bertram began to think that he understood why Adela also remained unmarried, and he began
to ask himself whether all the world were as cold-hearted as his Caroline. Could it be that
Adela also had refused to venture till her future husband should have a good, comfortable,
disposable income of his own? But, if so, she would not have sympathized so warmly with him;
and if so, what reason could there be why she and Arthur should not meet each other? Could
it then be that Arthur Wilkinson was such a coward?

He said nothing on the matter to either of them, for neither of them had confided to him their
sorrows--if they had sorrows. He had no wish to penetrate their secrets. What he had said,
and what he had learnt, he had said and learnt by accident. He himself had not their gift of
reticence, so he talked of his love occasionally to Arthur, and he talked of it very often
to Adela.

And the upshot of his talking to Adela was always this: "Why, oh why, was not his Caroline
more like to her?" Caroline was doubtless the more beautiful, doubtless the more clever, doubtless
the more fascinating. But what are beauty and talent and fascination without a heart? He was
quite sure that Adela's heart was warm.

He went to Littlebath no more that year. It was well perhaps that he did not. Well or ill as
the case may be. Had he done so, he would, in his then state of mind, most assuredly have broken
with Miss Waddington. In lieu, however, of accepting Miss Baker's invitation for Christmas,
he went to Hadley and spent two or three days there, uncomfortable himself, and making the
old man uncomfortable also.

Up to this time he had been completely idle--at any rate, as far as the law was concerned--since
the day of his great break down on the receipt of Miss Waddington's letter. He still kept his
Temple chambers, and when the day came round in October, he made another annual payment to
Mr. Die. On that occasion Mr. Die had spoken rather seriously to him; but up to that time his
period of idleness had mainly been the period of the long vacation, and Mr. Die was willing
to suppose that this continued payment was a sign that he intended to settle again to work.

"Will it be impertinent to ask," his uncle at Hadley had said to him--"will it be impertinent
to ask what you and Caroline intend to do?" At this time Mr. Bertram was aware that his nephew
knew in what relationship they all stood to each other.

"No impertinence at all, sir. But, unfortunately, we have no intentions in common. We are engaged
to be married, and I want to keep my engagement."

"And she wants to break hers. Well, I cannot but say that she is the wiser of the two."

"I don't know that her wisdom goes quite so far as that. She is content to abide the evil day;
only she would postpone it."

"That is to say, she has some prudence. Are you aware that I have proposed to make a considerable
addition to her fortune--to hers, mind--on condition that she would postpone her marriage till
next summer?"

"I did hear something about some sum of money--that you had spoken to Miss Baker about it,
I believe; but I quite forget the particulars."

"You are very indifferent as to money matters, Mr. Barrister."

"I am indifferent as to the money matters of other people, sir. I had no intention of marrying
Miss Waddington for her money before I knew that she was your granddaughter; nor have I now
that I do know it."

"For her money! If you marry her for more money than her own fortune, and perhaps a couple
of thousands added to it, you are likely to be mistaken."

"I shall never make any mistake of that kind. As far as I am concerned, you are quite welcome,
for me, to keep your two thousand pounds."

"That's kind of you."

"I would marry her to-morrow without it. I am not at all sure that I will marry her next year
with it. If you exercise any authority over her as her grandfather, I wish you would tell her
so, as coming from me."

"Upon my word you carry it high as a lover."

"Not too high, I hope, as a man."

"Well, George, remember this once for all"--and now the old man spoke in a much more serious
voice--"I will not interfere at all as her grandfather. Nor will I have it known that I am
such. Do you understand that?"

"I understand, sir, that it is not your wish that it should be generally talked of."

"And I trust that wish has been, and will be complied with by you."

This last speech was not put in the form of a question; but George understood that it was intended
to elicit from him a promise for the future and an assurance as to the past.

"I have mentioned the circumstance to one intimate friend with whom I was all but obliged to
discuss the matter--"

"Obliged to discuss my private concerns, sir!"

"With one friend, sir; with two, indeed; I think--indeed, I fear I have mentioned it to three."

"Oh! to three! obliged to discuss your own most private concerns as well as mine with three
intimate friends! You are lucky, sir, to have so many intimate friends. As my concerns have
been made known to them as well as your own, may I ask who they are?"

George then gave up the three names. They were those of Mr. Harcourt, the Rev. Arthur Wilkinson,
and Miss Adela Gauntlet. His uncle was very angry. Had he utterly denied the fact of his ever
having mentioned the matter to any one, and had it been afterwards discovered that such denial
was false, Mr. Bertram would not have been by much so angry. The offence and the lie together,
but joined with the fear and deference to which the lie would have testified, would be nothing
so black as the offence without the lie, and without the fear, and without the deference.

His uncle was very angry, but on that day he said nothing further on the matter; neither on
the next day did he; but on the third day, just as George was about to leave Hadley, he said,
in his usual bantering tone, "Don't have any more intimate friends, George, as far as my private
matters are concerned."

"No, sir, I will not," said George.

It was in consequence of what Mr. Bertram had then learnt that he became acquainted with Mr.
Harcourt. As Mr. Harcourt had heard this about his grandchild, he thought it better to see
that learned gentleman. He did see him; and, as has been before stated, they became intimate
with each other.

And so ended the first of these two years.

CHAPTER III.

RETROSPECTIVE.--SECOND YEAR.

The next year passed almost more uncomfortably for George Bertram and for the ladies at Littlebath
than had the latter months of the last year. Its occurrences can, I hope, be stated less in
detail, so that we may get on without too great delay to the incidents of the period which
is to be awhile for us the present existing time.

This year was Harcourt's great year. In January and February and March he did great things
in Chancery. In April he came into Parliament. In May and June and July, he sat on committees.
In August he stuck to his work till London was no longer endurable. In the latter part of autumn
there was an extraordinary session, during which he worked like a horse. He studied the corn-law
question as well as sundry legal reforms all the Christmas week, and in the following spring
he came out with his great speech on behalf of Sir Robert Peel. But, nevertheless, he found
time to devote to the cares and troubles of Miss Baker and Miss Waddington.

In the spring Bertram paid one or two visits to Littlebath; but it may be doubted whether he
made himself altogether agreeable there. He stated broadly that he was doing little or nothing
at his profession: he was, he said, engaged on other matters; the great excitement to work,
under which he had commenced, had been withdrawn from him; and under these circumstances he
was not inclined to devote himself exclusively to studies which certainly were not to his taste.
He did not condescend again to ask Caroline to revoke her sentence; he pressed now for no marriage;
but he made it quite apparent that all the changes in himself for the worse--and there had
been changes for the worse--were owing to her obstinacy.

He was now living a life of dissipation. I do not intend that it should be understood that
he utterly gave himself up to pleasures disgraceful in themselves, that he altogether abandoned
the reins, and allowed himself to live such a life as is passed by some young men in London.
His tastes and appetites were too high for this. He did not sink into a slough of despond.
He did not become filthy and vicious, callous and bestial; but he departed very widely astray
from those rules which governed him during his first six months in London.

All this was well known at Littlebath; nor did Bertram at all endeavour to conceal the truth.
Indeed, it may be said of him, that he never concealed anything. In this especial case he took
a pride in letting Caroline know the full extent of the evil she had done.

It was a question with them whether he had not now given up the bar as a profession altogether.
He did not say that he had done so, and it was certainly his intention to keep his terms, and
to be called; but he had now no longer a legal Gamaliel. Some time in the April of this year,
Mr. Die had written to him a very kind little note, begging him to call one special morning
at the chambers in Stone Buildings, if not very inconvenient to him. Bertram did call, and
Mr. Die, with many professions of regard and regret, honestly returned to him his money paid
for that year's tutelage. "It had been," he said, "a pleasure and a pride to him to have Mr.
Bertram in his chambers; and would still be so to have him there again. But he could not take
a gentleman's money under a false pretence; as it seemed to be no longer Mr. Bertram's intention
to attend there, he must beg to refund it." And he did refund it accordingly. This also was
made known to the ladies at Littlebath.

He was engaged, he had said, on other matters. This also was true. During the first six months
of his anger, he had been content to be idle; but idleness did not suit him, so he sat himself
down and wrote a book. He published this book without his name, but he told them at Littlebath
of his authorship; and some one also told of it at Oxford. The book--or bookling, for it consisted
but of one small demy-octavo volume--was not such as delighted his friends either at Littlebath
or at Oxford, or even at those two Hampshire parsonages. At Littlebath it made Miss Baker's
hair stand on end, and at Oxford it gave rise to a suggestion in some orthodox quarters that
Mr. Bertram should be requested to resign his fellowship.

It has been told how, sitting on the Mount of Olives, he had been ready to devote himself to
the service of the church to which he belonged. Could his mind have been known at that time,
how proud might one have been of him! His mind was not then known; but now, after a lapse of
two years, he made it as it were public, and Oriel was by no means proud of him.

The name of his little book was a very awful name. It was called the "Romance of Scripture."
He began in his first chapter with an earnest remonstrance against that condemnation which
he knew the injustice of the world would pronounce against him. There was nothing in his book,
he said, to warrant any man in accusing him of unbelief. Let those who were so inclined to
accuse him read and judge. He had called things by their true names, and that doubtless by
some would be imputed to him as a sin. But it would be found that he had gone no further in
impugning the truth of Scripture than many other writers before him, some of whom had since
been rewarded for their writings by high promotion in the church. The bishops' bench was the
reward for orthodoxy; but there had been a taste for liberal deans. He had gone no further,
he said, than many deans.

It was acknowledged, he went on to say, that all Scripture statements could not now be taken
as true to the letter; particularly not as true to the letter as now adopted by Englishmen.
It seemed to him that the generality of his countrymen were of opinion that the inspired writers
had themselves written in English. It was forgotten that they were Orientals, who wrote in
the language natural to them, with the customary grandiloquence of orientalism, with the poetic
exaggeration which, in the East, was the breath of life. It was forgotten also that they wrote
in ignorance of those natural truths which men had now acquired by experience and induction,
and not by revelation. Their truth was the truth of heaven, not the truth of earth. No man
thought that the sun in those days did rise and set, moving round the earth, because a prolongation
of the day had been described by the sun standing still upon Gibeon. And then he took the book
of Job, and measured that by the light of his own candle--and so on.

The book was undoubtedly clever, and men read it. Women also read it, and began to talk, some
of them at least, of the blindness of their mothers who had not had wit to see that these old
chronicles were very much as other old chronicles. "The Romance of Scripture" was to be seen
frequently in booksellers' advertisements, and Mr. Mudie told how he always had two thousand
copies of it on his shelves. So our friend did something in the world; but what he did do was
unfortunately not applauded by his friends.

Harcourt very plainly told him that a man who scribbled never did any good at the bar. The
two trades, he said, were not compatible.

"No," said George, "I believe not. An author must be nothing if he do not love truth; a barrister
must be nothing if he do." Harcourt was no whit annoyed by the repartee, but having given his
warning, went his way to his work.

It was very well known that the "Romance of Scripture" was Bertram's work, and there was a
comfortable row about it at Oxford. The row was all private, of course--as was necessary, the
book having been published without the author's name. But much was said, and many letters were
written. Bertram, in writing to the friend at Oriel who took up the cudgels in his defence,
made three statements. First, that no one at Oxford had a right to suppose that he was the
author. Second, that he was the author, and that no one at Oxford had a right to find fault
with what he had written. Thirdly, that it was quite a matter of indifference to him who did
find fault. To this, however, he added, that he was ready to resign his fellowship to-morrow
if the Common-room at Oriel wished to get rid of him.

So the matter rested--for awhile. Those who at this time knew Bertram best were confident enough
that his belief was shaken, in spite of the remonstrance so loudly put forth in his first pages.
He had intended to be honest in his remonstrance; but it is not every man who exactly knows
what he does believe. Every man! Is there, one may almost ask, any man who has such knowledge?
We all believe in the resurrection of the body; we say so at least, but what do we believe by it?

Men may be firm believers and yet doubt some Bible statements--doubt the letter of such statements.
But men who are firm believers will not be those to put forth their doubts with all their eloquence.
Such men, if they devote their time to Scripture history, will not be arrested by the sun's
standing on Gibeon. If they speak out at all, they will speak out rather as to all they do
believe than as to the little that they doubt. It was soon known to Bertram's world that those
who regarded him as a freethinker did him no great injustice.

This and other things made them very unhappy at Littlebath. The very fact of George having
written such a book nearly scared Miss Baker out of her wits. She, according to her own lights,
would have placed freethinkers in the same category with murderers, regicides, and horrid mysterious
sinners who commit crimes too dreadful for women to think of. She would not believe that Bertram
was one of these; but it was fearful to think that any one should so call him. Caroline, perhaps,
would not so much have minded this flaw in her future husband's faith if it had not been proof
of his unsteadiness, of his unfitness for the world's battle. She remembered what he had said
to her two years since on the Mount of Olives; and then thought of what he was saying now.
Everything with him was impulse and enthusiasm. All judgment was wanting. How should such as
he get on in the world? And had she indissolubly linked her lot to that of one who was so incapable
of success? No; indissolubly she had not so linked it; not as yet.

One night she opened her mind to her aunt, and spoke very seriously of her position. "I hardly
know what I ought to do," she said. "I know how much I owe him; I know how much he has a right
to expect from me. And I would pay him all I owe; I would do my duty by him even at the sacrifice
of myself if I could plainly see what my duty is."

"But, Caroline, do you wish to give him up?"

"No, not if I could keep him; keep him as he was. My high hopes are done with; my ambition
is over; I no longer look for much. But I would fain know that he still loves me before I marry
him. I would wish to be sure that he means to live with me. In his present mood, how can I
know aught of him? how be sure of anything?"

Her aunt, after remaining for some half-hour in consideration, at last and with reluctance
gave her advice.

"It all but breaks my heart to say so; but, Caroline, I think I would abandon it: I think I
would ask him to release me from my promise."

It may well be imagined that Miss Waddington was not herself when she declared that her high
hopes were done with, that her ambition was over. She was not herself. Anxiety, sorrow, and
doubt--doubt as to the man whom she had pledged herself to love, whom she did love--had made
her ill, and she was not herself. She had become thin and pale, and was looking old and wan.
She sat silent for awhile, leaning with her head on her hand, and made no answer to her aunt's
suggestion.

"I really would, Caroline; indeed, I would. I know you are not happy as you are."

"Happy!"

"You are looking wretchedly ill, too. I know all this is wearing you. Take my advice, Caroline,
and write to him."

"There are two reasons against it, aunt; two strong reasons."

"What reasons, love?"

"In the first place, I love him." Aunt Mary sighed. She had no other answer but a sigh to give
to this. "And in the next place, I have no right to ask anything of him."

"Why not, Caroline?"

"He made his request to me, and I refused it. Had I consented to marry him last year, all this
would have been different. I intended to do right, and even now I do not think that I was wrong.
But I cannot impute fault to him. He does all this in order that I may impute it, and that
then he may have his revenge."

Nothing more was said on the matter at that time, and things went on for awhile again in the
same unsatisfactory state.

Early in the summer, Miss Waddington and her aunt went up for a few weeks to London. It had
been Miss Baker's habit to spend some days at Hadley about this time of the year. She suggested
to Caroline, that instead of her doing so, they should both go for a week or so to London.
She thought that the change would be good for her niece, and she thought also, though of this
she said nothing, that Caroline would see something of her lover. If he were not to be given
up, it would be well--so Miss Baker thought--that this marriage should be delayed no longer.
Bertram was determined to prove that marriage was necessary to tame him; he had proved it--at
any rate to Miss Baker's satisfaction. There would now be money enough to live on, as uncle
Bertram's two thousand pounds had been promised for this summer. On this little scheme Miss
Baker went to work.

Caroline made no opposition to the London plan. She said nothing about George in connection
with it; but her heart was somewhat softened, and she wished to see him.

Miss Baker therefore wrote up for rooms. She would naturally, one would say, have written to
George, but there were now little jealousies and commencements of hot blood even between them.
George, though still Caroline's engaged lover, was known to have some bitter feelings, and
was believed perhaps by Miss Baker to be more bitter than he really was. So the lodgings were
taken without any reference to him. When they reached town they found that he was abroad.

Then Miss Waddington was really angry. They had no right, it is true, to be annoyed in that
he was not there to meet them. They had not given him the opportunity. But it did appear to
them that, circumstanced as they were, considering the acknowledged engagement between them,
he was wrong to leave the country without letting them have a word to say whither he was going
or for how long. It was nearly a fortnight since he had written to Caroline, and, for anything
they knew, it might be months before she again heard from him.

It was then that they sent for Harcourt, and at this period that they became so intimate with
him. Bertram had told him of this foreign trip, but only a day or two before he had taken his
departure. It was just at this time that there had been the noise about the "Romance of Scripture."
Bertram had defended himself in one or two newspapers, had written his defiant letter to his
friend at Oxford, and then started to meet his father at Paris. He was going no further, and
might be back in a week. This however must be uncertain, as his return would depend on that
of Sir Lionel. Sir Lionel intended to come to London with him.

Mr. Harcourt was very attentive to them--in spite of his being at that time so useful a public
man. He was very attentive to both, being almost as civil to the elder lady as he was to the
younger, which, for an Englishman, showed very good breeding. By degrees they both began to
regard him with confidence--with sufficient confidence to talk to him of Bertram; with sufficient
confidence even to tell him of all their fears. By degrees Caroline would talk to him alone,
and when once she permitted herself to do so, she concealed nothing.

Harcourt said not a word against his friend. That friend himself might perhaps have thought
that his friend, speaking of him behind his back, might have spoken more warmly in his praise.
But it was hard at present to say much that should be true in Bertram's praise. He was not
living in a wise or prudent manner; not preparing himself in any way to live as a man should
live by the sweat of his brow. Harcourt could not say much in his favour. That Bertram was
clever, honest, true, and high-spirited, that Miss Waddington knew; that Miss Baker knew: what
they wanted to learn was, that he was making prudent use of these high qualities. Harcourt
could not say that he was doing so.

"That he will fall on his legs at last," said Harcourt once when he was alone with Caroline,
"I do not doubt; with his talent, and his high, honest love of virtue, it is all but impossible
that he should throw himself away. But the present moment is of such vital importance! It is
so hard to make up for the loss even of twelve months!"

"I am sure it is," said Caroline; "but I would not care for that so much if I thought--"

"Thought what, Miss Waddington?"

"That his disposition was not altered. He was so frank, so candid, so--so--so affectionate."

"It is the manner of men to change in that respect. They become, perhaps, not less affectionate,
but less demonstrative."

To this Miss Waddington answered nothing. It might probably be so. It was singular enough that
she, with her ideas, should be complaining to a perfect stranger of an uncaressing, unloving
manner in her lover; she who had professed to herself that she lived so little for love! Had
George been even kneeling at her knee, her heart would have been stern enough. It was only
by feeling a woman's wrong that she found herself endowed with a woman's privilege.

"I do not think that Bertram's heart is changed," continued Harcourt; "he is doubtless very
angry that his requests to you last summer were not complied with."

"But how could we have married then, Mr. Harcourt? Think what our income would have been; and
he as yet without any profession!"

"I am not blaming you. I am not taking his part against you. I only say that he is very angry."

"But does he bear malice, Mr. Harcourt?"

"No, he does not bear malice; men may be angry without bearing malice. He thinks that you have
shown a want of confidence in him, and are still showing it."

"And has he not justified that want of confidence?"

To this Harcourt answered nothing, but he smiled slightly.

"Well, has he not? What could I have done? What ought I to have done? Tell me, Mr. Harcourt.
It distresses me beyond measure that you should think I have been to blame."

"I do not think so; far from it, Miss Waddington. Bertram is my dear friend, and I know his
fine qualities; but I cannot but own that he justified you in that temporary want of confidence
which you now express."

Mr. Harcourt, though a member of Parliament and a learned pundit, was nevertheless a very young
man. He was an unmarried man also, and a man not yet engaged to be married. It may be surmised
that George Bertram would not have been pleased had he known the sort of conversations that
were held between his dear friend and his betrothed bride. And yet Caroline at this period
loved him better than ever she had done.

A week or ten days after this three letters arrived from Bertram, one for Caroline, one for
Miss Baker, and one for Harcourt. Caroline and her aunt had lingered in London, both doubtless
in the hope that Bertram would return. There can be little doubt now that had he returned,
and had he been anxious for the marriage, Miss Waddington would have consented. She was becoming
ill at ease, dissatisfied, what the world calls heart-broken. Now that she was tried, she found
herself not to be so strong in her own resolves. She was not sick from love alone; her position
was altogether wretched--though she was engaged, and persisted in adhering to her engagement,
she felt and often expressed to her aunt a presentiment that she and Bertram would never be
married.

They waited for awhile in the hope that he might return; but instead of himself, there came
three letters. Harcourt, it seemed, had written to him, and hence arose these epistles. That
to Miss Baker was very civil and friendly. Had that come alone it would have created no complaint.
He explained to her that had he expected her visit to London, he would have endeavoured to
meet her; that he could not now return, as he had promised to remain awhile with his father.
Sir Lionel had been unwell, and the waters of Vichy had been recommended. He was going to Vichy
with Sir Lionel, and would not be in London till August. His plans after that were altogether
unsettled, but he would not be long in London before he came to Littlebath. Such was his letter
to Miss Baker.

To Harcourt he wrote very shortly. He was obliged to him for the interest he took in the welfare
of Miss Waddington, and for his attention to Miss Baker. That was nearly all he said. There
was not an angry word in the letter; but, nevertheless, his friend was able to deduce from
it, short as it was, that Bertram was angry.

But on the head of his betrothed he poured out the vial of his wrath. He had never before scolded
her, had never written in an angry tone. Now in very truth he did so. An angry letter, especially
if the writer be well loved, is so much fiercer than any angry speech, so much more unendurable!
There the words remain, scorching, not to be explained away, not to be atoned for by a kiss,
not to be softened down by the word of love that may follow so quickly upon spoken anger. Heaven
defend me from angry letters! They should never be written, unless to schoolboys and men at
college; and not often to them if they be any way tender hearted. This at least should be a
rule through the letter-writing world: that no angry letter be posted till four-and-twenty
hours shall have elapsed since it was written. We all know how absurd is that other rule, that
of saying the alphabet when you are angry. Trash! Sit down and write your letter; write it
with all the venom in your power; spit out your spleen at the fullest; 'twill do you good;
you think you have been injured; say all that you can say with all your poisoned eloquence,
and gratify yourself by reading it while your temper is still hot. Then put it in your desk;
and, as a matter of course, burn it before breakfast the following morning. Believe me that
you will then have a double gratification.

A pleasant letter I hold to be the pleasantest thing that this world has to give. It should
be good-humoured; witty it may be, but with a gentle diluted wit. Concocted brilliancy will
spoil it altogether. Not long, so that it be tedious in the reading; nor brief, so that the
delight suffice not to make itself felt. It should be written specially for the reader, and
should apply altogether to him, and not altogether to any other. It should never flatter. Flattery
is always odious. But underneath the visible stream of pungent water there may be the slightest
under-current of eulogy, so that it be not seen, but only understood. Censure it may contain
freely, but censure which in arraigning the conduct implies no doubt as to the intellect. It
should be legibly written, so that it may be read with comfort; but no more than that. Caligraphy
betokens caution, and if it be not light in hand it is nothing. That it be fairly grammatical
and not ill spelt the writer owes to his schoolmaster; but this should come of habit, not of
care. Then let its page be soiled by no business; one touch of utility will destroy it all.

If you ask for examples, let it be as unlike Walpole as may be. If you can so write it that
Lord Byron might have written it, you will not be very far from high excellence.

But, above all things, see that it be good-humoured.

Bertram's letter to the lady that he loved was by no means one of this sort. In the first place,
it was not good-humoured; it was very far from being so. Had it been so, it would utterly have
belied his feelings. Harcourt had so written to him as to make him quite clearly understand
that all his sins and--which was much more to him--all his loves had been fully discussed between
his friend and Miss Waddington--between his Caroline and another man. To the pride of his heart
nothing could be more revolting. It was as though his dearest possession had been ransacked
in his absence, and rifled and squandered by the very guardian to whom he had left the key.
There had been sore misgivings, sore differences between him and Caroline; but, nevertheless,
she had had all his heart. Now, in his absence, she had selected his worldly friend Harcourt,
and discussed that possession and its flaws with him! There was that in all this of which he
could not write with good-humour. Nevertheless, had he kept his letter to the second morning,
it may probably be said that he would have hesitated to send it.

"My dearest Caroline," it began. Now I put it to all lovers whether, when they wish to please,
they ever write in such manner to their sweethearts. Is it not always, "My own love?" "Dearest
love?" "My own sweet pet?" But that use of the Christian name, which is so delicious in the
speaking during the first days of intimacy, does it not always betoken something stern at the
beginning of a lover's letter? Ah, it may betoken something very stern! "My dearest Jane, I
am sorry to say it, but I could not approve of the way in which you danced with Major Simkins
last night." "My dearest Lucy, I was at Kensington-garden gate yesterday at four, and remained
absolutely till five. You really ought--." Is not that always the angry lover's tone?

I fear that I must give Bertram's letter entire to make the matter sufficiently clear.

   My dearest Caroline,

   I learn from Mr. Harcourt that you and Miss Baker are
   in town, and I am of course sorry to miss you. Would it
   not have been better that I should have heard this from
   yourself?

   Mr. Harcourt tells me that you are dissatisfied; and I
   understand from his letter that you have explained your
   dissatisfaction very fully to him. It might have been
   better, I think, that the explanation should have been
   made to me; or had you chosen to complain, you might have
   done so to your aunt, or to your grandfather. I cannot
   think that you were at liberty to complain of me to
   Mr. Harcourt. My wish is, that you have no further
   conversation with him on our joint concerns. It is not
   seemly; and, if feminine, is at any rate not ladylike.

   I am driven to defend myself. What is it of which
   you complain, or have a right to complain? We became
   engaged more than twelve months since, certainly with no
   understanding that the matter was to stand over for three
   years. My understanding was that we were to be married as
   soon as it might reasonably be arranged. You then took on
   yourself to order this delay, and kindly offered to give
   me up as an alternative. I could not force you to marry
   me; but I loved you too well, and trusted too much in
   your love to be able to think that that giving up was
   necessary. Perhaps I was wrong.

   But the period of this wretched interval is at my own
   disposal. Had you married me, my time would have been
   yours. It would have been just that you should know how
   it was spent. Each would then have known so much of the
   other. But you have chosen that this should not be; and,
   therefore, I deny your right now to make inquiry. If I
   have departed from any hopes you had formed, you have no
   one to blame but yourself.

   You have said that I neglect you. I am ready to marry you
   to-morrow; I have been ready to do so any day since our
   engagement. You yourself know how much more than ready
   I have been. I do not profess to be a very painstaking
   lover; nay, if you will, the life would bore me, even if
   in our case the mawkishness of the delay did not do more
   than bore. At any rate, I will not go through it. I loved,
   and do love you truly. I told you of it truly when I first
   knew it myself, and urged my suit till I had a definite
   answer. You accepted me, and now there needs be nothing
   further till we are married.

   But I insist on this, that I will not have my affairs
   discussed by you with persons to whom you are a stranger.

   You will see my letter to your aunt. I have told her that
   I will visit her at Littlebath as soon as I have returned
   to England.

   Yours ever affectionately,

   G. B.

This letter was a terrible blow to Caroline. It seemed to her to be almost incredible that
she, she, Caroline Waddington, should be forced to receive such a letter as that under any
circumstances and from any gentleman. Unseemly, unfeminine, unladylike! These were the epithets
her lover used in addressing her. She was told that it bored him to play the lover; that his
misconduct was her fault; and then she was accused of mawkishness! He was imperative, too,
in laying his orders to her. "I insist on this!" Was it incumbent on her to comply with his
insistings?

Of course she showed the letter to her aunt, whose advice resulted in this--that it would be
better that she should pocket the affront silently if she were not prepared to give up the
engagement altogether. If she were so prepared, the letter doubtless would give her the opportunity.

And then Mr. Harcourt came to her while her anger was yet at the hottest. His manner was so
kind, his temper so sweet, his attention so obliging, that she could not but be glad to see
him. If George loved her, if he wished to guide her, wished to persuade her, why was not he
at her right hand? Mr. Harcourt was there instead. It did not bore him, multifold as his duties
were, to be near her.

Then she committed the first great fault of which in this history she will be shown as being
guilty. She showed her lover's letter to Mr. Harcourt. Of course this was not done without
some previous converse; till he had found out that she was wretched, and inquired as to her
wretchedness; till she had owned that she was ill with sorrow, beside herself, and perplexed
in the extreme. Then at last, saying to herself that she cared not now to obey Mr. Bertram,
she showed the letter to Mr. Harcourt.

"It is ungenerous," said Harcourt.

"It is ungentlemanlike," said Caroline. "But it was written in passion, and I shall not notice
it." And so she and Miss Baker went back again to Littlebath.

It was September before Bertram returned, and then Sir Lionel came with him. We have not space
to tell much of what had passed between the father and the son; but they reached London apparently
on good terms with each other, and Sir Lionel settled himself in a bedroom near to his son's
chambers, and near also to his own club. There was, however, this great ground of disagreement
between them. Sir Lionel was very anxious that his son should borrow money from Mr. Bertram,
and George very resolutely declined to do so. It was now clear enough to Sir Lionel that his
son could not show his filial disposition by advancing on his own behalf much money to his
father, as he was himself by no means in affluent circumstances.

He went down to Littlebath, and took his father with him. The meeting between the lovers was
again unloverlike; but nothing could be more affectionate than Sir Lionel. He took Caroline
in his arms and kissed her, called her his dear daughter, and praised her beauty. I believe
he kissed Miss Baker. Indeed, I know that he made an attempt to do so; and I think it not at
all improbable that in the overflowing of his affectionate heart, he made some overture of
the same kind to the exceedingly pretty parlour-maid who waited upon them. Whatever might be
thought of George, Sir Lionel soon became popular there, and his popularity was not decreased
when he declared that he would spend the remainder of the autumn, and perhaps the winter, at
Littlebath.

He did stay there for the winter. He had a year's furlough, during which he was to remain in
England with full pay, and he made it known to the ladies at Littlebath that the chief object
of his getting this leave was to be present at the nuptials of dear Caroline and his son. On
one occasion he borrowed thirty pounds from Miss Baker; a circumstance which their intimacy,
perhaps, made excusable. He happened, however, to mention this little occurrence casually to
his son, and George at once repaid that debt, poor as he was at the time.

"You could have that and whatever more you chose merely for the asking," said Sir Lionel on
that occasion, in a tone almost of reproach.

And so the winter passed away. George, however, was not idle. He fully intended to be called
to the bar in the following autumn, and did, to a certain extent, renew his legal studies.
He did not return to Mr. Die, prevented possibly by the difficulty he would have in preparing
the necessary funds. But his great work through the winter and in the early spring was another
small volume, which he published in March, and which he called, "The Fallacies of Early History."

We need not give any minute criticism on this work. It will suffice to say that the orthodox
world declared it to be much more heterodox than the last work. Heterodox, indeed! It was so
bad, they said, that there was not the least glimmer of any doxy whatever left about it. The
early history of which he spoke was altogether Bible history, and the fallacies to which he
alluded were the plainest statements of the book of Genesis. Nay, he had called the whole story
of Creation a myth; the whole story as there given: so at least said the rabbis of Oxford,
and among them outspoke more loudly than any others the outraged and very learned rabbis of Oriel.

Bertram however denied this. He had, he said, not called anything a myth. There was the printed
book, and one might have supposed that it would be easy enough to settle this question. But
it was far from being so. The words myth and mythical were used half a dozen times, and the
rabbis declared that they were applied to the statements of Scripture. Bertram declared that
they were applied to the appearance those statements must have as at present put before the
English world. Then he said something not complimentary to the translators, and something also
very uncivil as to want of intelligence on the part of the Oxford rabbis. The war raged warmly,
and was taken up by the metropolitan press, till Bertram became a lion--a lion, however, without
a hide, for in the middle of the dispute he felt himself called on to resign his fellowship.

He lost that hide; but he got another in lieu which his friends assured him was of a much warmer
texture. His uncle had taken considerable interest in this dispute, alleging all through that
the Oxford men were long-eared asses and bigoted monks. It may be presumed that his own orthodoxy
was not of a high class. He had never liked George's fellowship, and had always ridiculed the
income which he received from it. Directly he heard that it had been resigned, he gave his
nephew a thousand pounds. He said nothing about it; he merely told Mr. Pritchett to arrange
the matter.

Sir Lionel was delighted. As to the question of orthodoxy he was perfectly indifferent. It
was nothing to him whether his son called the book of Genesis a myth or a gospel; but he had
said much, very much as to the folly of risking the fellowship; and more, a great deal more,
as to the madness of throwing it away. But now he was quite ready to own himself wrong, and
did do so in the most straightforward manner. After all, what was a fellowship to a man just
about to be married? In his position Bertram had of course been free to speak out. If, indeed,
there had been any object in holding to the college, then the expression of such opinions,
let alone their publication, would not have been judicious.

As it was, however, nothing could have been more lucky. His son had shown his independence.
The rich uncle had shown the warm interest which he still took in his nephew, and Sir Lionel
was able to borrow two hundred and fifty pounds, a sum of money which, at the present moment,
was very grateful to him. Bertram's triumph was gilded on all sides; for the booksellers had
paid him handsomely for his infidel manuscript. Infidelity that can make itself successful
will, at any rate, bring an income.

And this brings us to the period at which we may resume our story. One word we must say as
to Caroline. During the winter she had seen her lover repeatedly, and had written to him repeatedly.
Their engagement, therefore, had by no means been broken. But their meetings were cold, and
their letters equally so. She would have married him at once now if he would ask her. But he
would not ask her. He was quite willing to marry her if she would herself say that she was
willing so far to recede from her former resolution. But she could not bring herself to do
this. Each was too proud to make the first concession to the other, and therefore no concession
was made by either.

Sir Lionel once attempted to interfere; but he failed. George gave him to understand that he
could manage his own affairs himself. When a son is frequently called on to lend money to his
father, and that father is never called on to repay it, the parental authority is apt to grow
dull. It had become very dull in this case.

CHAPTER IV.

RICHMOND.

It was in the midst of this noise about Bertram's new book that the scene is presumed to be
re-opened. He had resigned his fellowship, and pocketed his thousand pounds. Neither of these
events had much depressed his spirits, and he appeared now to his friends to be a happy man
in spite of his love troubles. At the same time, Harcourt also was sufficiently elate. He had
made his great speech with considerable éclat, and his sails were full of wind--of wind of
a more substantial character than that by which Bertram's vessel was wafted.

And just now Harcourt and Bertram were again much together. A few months since it had appeared
to Harcourt that Bertram intended to do nothing in the world, to make no figure. Even now there
was but little hope of his doing much as a barrister; but it seemed probable that he might
at any rate make himself known as an author. Such triumphs, as Harcourt well knew, were very
barren; but still it was well to know men who were in any way triumphant; and therefore the
barrister, himself so triumphant, considered it judicious not to drop his friend.

It may be said that Bertram had given up all idea of practising as a barrister. He still intended
to go through the form of being called; but his profession was to be that of an author. He
had all manner of works in hand: poems, plays, political pamphlets, infidel essays, histories,
and a narrative of his travels in the East. He had made up his mind fully that there were in
England only two occupations worthy of an Englishman. A man should be known either as a politician
or as an author. It behoved a man to speak out what was in him with some audible voice, so
that the world might hear. He might do so either by word of mouth, or by pen and paper; by
the former in Parliament, by the latter at his desk. Each form of speech had its own advantage.
Fate, which had made Harcourt a member of Parliament, seemed to intend him, Bertram, to be
an author.

Harcourt, though overwhelmed by business at this period, took frequent occasion to be with
Bertram; and when he was with him alone he always made an effort to talk about Miss Waddington.
Bertram was rather shy of the subject. He had never blamed Harcourt for what had taken place
while he was absent in Paris, but since that time he had never volunteered to speak of his
own engagement.

They were together one fine May evening on the banks of the river at Richmond. George was fond
of the place, and whenever Harcourt proposed to spend an evening alone with him, they would
go up the river and dine there.

On this occasion Harcourt seemed determined to talk about Miss Waddington. Bertram, who was
not in the best possible humour, had shown, one might say plainly enough, that it was a subject
on which he did not wish to speak. One might also say that it was a subject as to talking on
which the choice certainly ought to have been left to himself. A man who is engaged may often
choose to talk to his friend about his engaged bride; but the friend does not usually select
the lady as a topic of conversation except in conformity with the Benedict's wishes.

On this occasion, however, Harcourt would talk about Miss Waddington, and Bertram, who had
already given one or two short answers, began to feel that his friend was almost impertinent.

They were cracking decayed walnuts and sipping not the very best of wine, and Bertram was expatiating
on Sir Robert Peel's enormity in having taken the wind out of the sails of the Whigs, and rehearsing
perhaps a few paragraphs of a new pamphlet that was about to come out, when Harcourt again
suddenly turned the conversation.

"By-the-by," said he, "I believe there is no day absolutely fixed for your marriage."

"No," said Bertram, sharply enough. "No day has been fixed. Could anything on earth have been
more base than the manner in which he has endeavoured to leave Cobden as a necessary legacy
to the new government? Would he have put Cobden into any place in a government of his own?"

"Oh, d---- Cobden! One has enough of him in the House,--quite."

"But I have not that advantage."

"You shall have some of these days. I'll make over the Battersea Hamlets to you as soon as
I can get a judge's wig on my head. But I'm thinking of other things now. I wonder whether
you and Caroline Waddington ever will be man and wife?"

"Probably about the time that you are made a judge."

"Ha! ha! Well, I hope if you do do it, it will come off before that. But I doubt it's coming
off at all. Each of you is too proud for the other. Neither of you can forgive what the other
has done."

"What do you mean? But to tell you the truth, Harcourt, I have no great inclination to discuss
that matter just at present. If you please, we will leave Miss Waddington alone."

"What I mean is this," said the embryo judge, perseveringly, "that you are too angry with her
on account of this enforced delay, and she is too angry with you because you have dared to
be angry with her. I do not think you will ever come together."

Bertram looked full at Harcourt as this was said, and observed that there was not the usual
easy, gentlemanlike smile on the barrister's face; and yet the barrister was doing his best
to look as usual. The fact was, that Harcourt was playing a game, and playing it with considerable
skill, but his performance was not altogether that of a Garrick. Something might have been
read in his face had Bertram been cunning enough to read it. But Bertram was not a cunning man.

Bertram looked full in the other's face. Had he been content to do so and to say nothing, he
would have gained his point, and the subject would have been at once dropped. Harcourt then
could have gone no further. But Bertram was now angry, and, being angry, he could not but speak.

"Harcourt, you have interfered once before between me and Miss Waddington--"

"Interfered!"

"Yes, interfered--in what I then thought and still think to have been a very unwarrantable manner."

"It was a pity you did not tell me of it at the time."

"It is a pity rather that you should drive me to tell you of it now; but you do so. When I
was in Paris, you said to Miss Waddington what you had no right to say."

"What did I say?"

"Or, rather, she said to you--"

"Ah! that was no fault of mine."

"But it was a fault of yours. Do you think that I cannot understand? that I cannot see? She
would have been silent enough to you but for your encouragement. I do not know that I was ever
so vexed as when I received that letter from you. You took upon yourself--"

"I know you were angry, very angry. But that was not my fault. I said nothing but what a friend
under such circumstances was bound to say."

"Well, let the matter drop now; and let Miss Waddington and myself settle our own affairs."

"I cannot let the matter drop; you have driven me to defend myself, and I must do it as best
I may. I know that you were angry, exceedingly angry--

"Exceedingly angry!" he repeated; "but that was no fault of mine. When Miss Baker sent for
me, I could not but go to her. When I was there, I could not but listen to her. When Caroline
told me that she was wretched--"

"Miss Waddington!" shouted Bertram, in a voice that caused the glasses to shake, and made the
waiter turn round. And then suddenly recollecting himself, he scowled round the room as he
observed that he was noticed.

"Hush, my dear fellow. It shall be Miss Waddington; but not quite so loud. And I beg your pardon,
but hearing the lady called by her Christian name so often, both by yourself and Miss Baker,
I forgot myself. When she spoke to me of her wretched state, what was I to do? Was I to say,
fie! fie! and take my hat and go away?

"She was very wretched," he continued, for Bertram merely scowled and said nothing, "and I
could not but sympathize with her. She thought that you had neglected her. It was clear that
you had gone abroad without telling her. Was it to be wondered at that she should be unhappy?"

"Her telling you that she was so was unexcusable."

"At any rate, I am blameless. I myself think that she was also; but that is another question.
In what I wrote to you, I did my duty as a friend to both parties. After that, I do confess
that I thought your anger too great to allow you ever to stand at the altar with her."

"You do not mean to say that she showed you my letter?" said Bertram, almost leaping at him.

"Your letter! what letter?"

"You know what letter--my letter from Paris? The letter which I wrote to her in reference to
the one I received from you? I desire at once to have an answer from you. Did Caroline show
you that letter?"

Harcourt looked very guilty, extremely guilty; but he did not immediately make any reply.

"Harcourt, answer me," said Bertram, much more coolly. "I have no feeling of anger now with
you. Did Caroline show you that letter?"

"Miss Waddington did show it to me."

And thus the successful Mr. Harcourt had been successful also in this. And now, having narrated
this interview in a manner which does not make it redound very much to that gentleman's credit,
I must add to the narrative his apology. If even-handed justice were done throughout the world,
some apology could be found for most offences. Not that the offences would thus be wiped away,
and black become white; but much that is now very black would be reduced to that sombre, uninviting
shade of ordinary brown which is so customary to humanity.

Our apology for Mr. Harcourt will by no means make his conduct white--will leave it, perhaps,
of a deeper, dingier brown than that which is quite ordinary among men; nay, will leave it
still black, many will say.

Mr. Harcourt had seen that which in his opinion proved that Bertram and Miss Waddington could
never be happy with each other. He had seen that which in his opinion led to the conclusion
that neither of them really wished that this marriage should take place. But he had seen that
also which made him believe that both were too proud to ask for a release. Under such circumstances,
would he be doing ill if he were to release them? Caroline had so spoken, spoken even to him,
that it seemed impossible to him that she could wish for the marriage. Bertram had so written
that it seemed equally impossible that he should wish for it. Would it not, therefore, be madness
to allow them to marry? He had said as much to Miss Baker, and Miss Baker had agreed with him.
"He cannot love her," Miss Baker had said, "or he would not neglect her so shamefully. I am
sure he does not love her."

But there was a man who did love her, who had felt that he could love her from the first moment
that he had seen her as an affianced bride: he had not then courted her for himself; for then
it was manifest that she both loved and was loved. But now, now that this was altered, was
there good cause why he should not covet her now? Mr. Harcourt thought that there was no sufficient
cause.

And then this man, who was not by nature a vain man, who had not made himself apt at believing
that young beauties fell readily in love with him, who had not spent his years in basking in
ladies' smiles, imagined that he had some ground to think that Miss Waddington was not averse
to him. Oh, how she had looked when that part of Bertram's letter had been read, in which he
professed that he would not be bored by any love-duties for his lady! And then, this man had
been kind to her; he had shown that such service would be no bore to him. He had been gentle-mannered
to her; and she also, she had been gentle to him:

   "The woman cannot be of nature's making
    Whom, being kind, her misery makes not kinder."

And Caroline was kind; at least so he thought, and heaven knows she was miserable also. And
thus hopes rose which should never have risen, and schemes were made which, if not absolutely
black, were as near it as any shade of brown may be.

And then there was the fact that Caroline was the granddaughter, and might probably be the
heiress, of one of the wealthiest men in the city of London. The consideration of this fact
had doubtless its weight also. The lady would at least have six thousand pounds, might have
sixty, might have three times sixty. Harcourt would probably have found it inexpedient to give
way to any love had there been no money to gild the passion. He was notoriously a man of the
world; he pretended to be nothing else; he would have thought that he had made himself ludicrous
if he had married for love only. With him it was a source of comfort that the lady's pecuniary
advantages allowed him the hope that he might indulge his love. So he did indulge it.

He had trusted for awhile that circumstances would break off this ill-assorted match, and that
then he could step in himself without any previous interference in the matter. But the time
was running too close: unless something was done, these two poor young creatures would marry,
and make themselves wretched for life. Benevolence itself required that he should take the
matter in hand. So he did take it in hand, and commenced his operations--not unskilfully, as
we have seen.

Such is our apology for Mr. Harcourt. A very poor one, the reader will say, turning from that
gentleman with disgust. It is a poor one. Were we all turned inside out, as is done with ladies
and gentlemen in novels, some of us might find some little difficulty in giving good apologies
for ourselves. Our shade of brown would often be very dark.

Bertram sat for awhile silent and motionless at the table, and Harcourt seeing his look of
grief, almost repented what he had done. But, after all, he had only told the truth. The letter
had been shown to him.

"It is incredible," said Bertram, "incredible, incredible!" But, nevertheless, his voice showed
plainly enough that the statement to him was not incredible.

"Let it be so," said Harcourt, who purposely misunderstood him. "I do not wish you to believe
me. Let us leave it so. Come, it is time for us to go back to town." But Bertram still sat
silent, saying nothing.

Harcourt called the waiter, and paid the bill. He then told Bertram what his share was, and
commenced smoothing the silk of his hat preparatory to moving. Bertram took out his purse,
gave him the necessary amount of shillings, and then again sat silent and motionless.

"Come, Bertram, there will be only one train after this, and you know what a crowd there is
always for that. Let us go."

But Bertram did not move. "Harcourt, if you would not mind it," he said, very gently, "I would
rather go back by myself to-day. What you have said has put me out. I shall probably walk."

"Walk to town!"

"Oh, yes; the walk will be nothing: I shall like it. Don't wait for me, there's a good fellow.
I'll see you to-morrow, or next day, or before long."

So Harcourt, shrugging his shoulders, and expressing some surprise at this singular resolve,
put his hat on his head and walked off by himself. What his inward reflections were on his
journey back to London we will not inquire; but will accompany our other friend in his walk.

Hurriedly as it had been written, he remembered almost every word of that letter from Paris.
He knew that it had been severe, and he had sometimes perhaps regretted its severity. But he
knew also that the offence had been great. What right had his affianced bride to speak of him
to another man? Was it not fit that he should tell her how great was this sin? His ideas on
the matter were perhaps too strong, but they certainly are not peculiar. We--speaking for the
educated male sex in England--do not like to think that any one should tamper with the ladies
whom we love.

But what was this to that which she had since done? To talk of him had been bad, but to show
his letters! to show such a letter as that! to show such a letter to such a person! to make
such a confidence, and with such a confidant! It could not be that she loved him; it could
not be but that she must prefer that other man to him.

As he thought of this, walking on hurriedly towards London on that soft May night, his bosom
swelled, but with anger rather than with sorrow. It must be all over then between them. It
could not go on after what he had now been told. She was willing, he presumed, to marry him,
having pledged him her word that she would do so; but it was clear that she did not care for
him. He would not hold her to her pledge; nor would he take to his bosom one who could have
a secret understanding with another man.

"Miss Baker," he said to himself, "had treated him badly; she must have known this; why had
she not told him? If it were so that Miss Waddington liked another better than him, would it
not have been Miss Baker's duty to tell him so? It did not signify however; he had learnt it
in time--luckily, luckily, luckily."

Should he quarrel with Harcourt? What mattered it whether he did or no? or what mattered it
what part Harcourt took in the concern? If that which Harcourt had said were true, if Caroline
had shown him this letter, he, Bertram, could never forgive that! If so, they must part! And
then, if he did not possess her, what mattered who did? Nay, if she loved Harcourt, why should
he prevent their coming together? But of this he would make himself fully satisfied; he would
know whether the letter had truly been shown. Harcourt was a barrister; and in Bertram's estimation
a barrister's word was not always to be taken implicitly.

So he still walked on. But what should he first do? how should he act at once? And then it
occurred to him that, according to the ideas generally prevalent in the world on such matters,
he would not be held to be justified in repudiating his betrothed merely because she had shown
a letter of his to another gentleman. He felt in his own mind that the cause was quite sufficient;
that the state of mind which such an act disclosed was clearly not that of a loving, trusting
wife. But others might think differently: perhaps Miss Baker might do so; or perhaps Miss Waddington.

But then it was not possible that she could ever wish to marry him after having taken such
a course as that. Had he not indeed ample cause to think that she did not wish to marry him?
She had put it off to the last possible moment. She had yielded nothing to his urgent request.
In all her intercourse with him she had been cold and unbending. She had had her moments of
confidence, but they were not with him; they were with one whom perhaps she liked better. There
was no jealousy in this, not jealousy of the usual kind. His self-respect had been injured,
and he could not endure that. He hardly now wished that she should love him.

But he would go to Littlebath at once and ask her the question. He would ask her all those
questions which were now burning inside his heart. She did not like severe letters, and he
would write no more such to her. What further communication might of necessity take place between
them should be by word of mouth. So he resolved to go down to Littlebath on the morrow.

And then he reached his chambers, weary and sad at heart. But he was no longer angry. He endeavoured
to persuade himself that he was absolutely the reverse of angry. He knelt down and prayed that
she might be happy. He swore that he would do anything to make her so. But that anything was
not to include any chance of a marriage with himself.

CHAPTER V.

JUNO.

In spite of his philosophy and his prayers, Bertram went to bed not in a very happy state of
mind. He was a man essentially of a warm and loving heart. He was exigeant, and perhaps even
selfish in his love. Most men are so. But he did love, had loved; and having made up his mind
to part from that which he had loved, he could not be happy. He had often lain awake, thinking
of her faults to him; but now he lay thinking of his faults to her. It was a pity, he said
to himself, that their marriage should have been so delayed; she had acted foolishly in that,
certainly, had not known him, had not understood his character, or appreciated his affection;
but, nevertheless, he might have borne it better. He felt that he had been stern, almost savage
to her; that he had resented her refusal to marry him at once too violently: he threw heavy
blame on himself. But through all this, he still felt that they could not now marry. Was it
not clear to him that Caroline would be delighted to escape from her engagement if the way
to do so were opened to her?

He lost no time in carrying out his plans. By an early train on the following day he went down
to Littlebath, and at once went to his father's lodgings. For Sir Lionel, in order that he
might be near his dear daughter, was still living in Littlebath. He had entered the second,
or lighter fast set, played a good deal at cards, might constantly be seen walking up and down
the assembly-rooms, and did something in horse-flesh.

George first went to his father's lodgings, and found him still in bed. The lighter fast set
at Littlebath do not generally get up early, and Sir Lionel professed that he had not lately
been altogether well. Littlebath was fearfully, fearfully cold. It was now May, and he was
still obliged to keep a fire. He was in a very good humour however with his son, for the period
of the two hundred and fifty pounds' loan was not long passed by. Gratitude for that had not
yet given way to desire for more.

"Oh, George! is that you? I am delighted to see you. Going up to the terrace, I suppose? I
was with Caroline for a few minutes last night, and I never saw her looking better--never."

George answered by asking his father where he meant to dine. Sir Lionel was going to dine out.
He usually did dine out. He was one of those men who have a knack of getting a succession of
gratis dinners; and it must be confessed in his favour--and the admission was generally made
in the dining-out world,--that Sir Lionel was worth his dinner.

"Then I shall probably return this evening; but I will see you before I go."

Sir Lionel asked why he would not dine as usual in Montpellier Terrace; but on this subject
George at present gave him no answer. He merely said that he thought it very improbable that
he should do so, and then went away to his work. It was hard work that he had to do, and he
thoroughly wished that it was over.

He did not however allow himself a moment to pause. On the contrary, he walked so quick, that
when he found himself in Miss Baker's drawing-room, he was almost out of breath, and partly
from that cause, and partly from his agitation, was unable to speak to that lady in his usual
unruffled manner.

"Ah, how do you do, Miss Baker? I'm very glad to see you. I have run down to-day in a great
hurry, and I am very anxious to see Caroline. Is she out?"

Miss Baker explained that she was not out; and would be down very shortly.

"I'm glad she's not away, for I am very anxious to see her--very."

Miss Baker, with her voice also in a tremble, asked if anything was the matter.

"No; nothing the matter. But the truth is, I'm tired of this, Miss Baker, and I want to settle
it. I don't know how she may bear it, but it has half killed me."

Miss Baker looked at him almost aghast, for his manner was energetic and almost wild. Only
that he so frequently was wild, she would have feared that something dreadful was about to
happen. She had not, however, time to say anything further, for Caroline's step was heard on
the stairs.

"Could you let us be alone for ten minutes," said George. "But I feel the shame of turning
you out of your own drawing-room. Perhaps Caroline will not mind coming down with me into the
parlour."

But Miss Baker of course waived this objection, and as she retreated, the two ladies met just
at the drawing-room door. Caroline was about to speak, but was stopped by the expression on
her aunt's face. Ladies have little ways of talking to each other, with nods and becks and
wreathed smiles, which are quite beyond the reach of men; and in this language aunt Mary did
say something as she passed which gave her niece to understand that the coming interview would
not consist merely of the delights which are common among lovers. Caroline, therefore, as she
entered the room composed her face for solemn things, and walked slowly, and not without some
dignity in her mien, into the presence of him who was to be her lord and master.

"We hardly expected you, George," she said.

His father had been right. She was looking well, very well. Her figure was perhaps not quite
so full, nor the colour in her cheek quite so high as when he had first seen her in Jerusalem;
but, otherwise, she had never seemed to him more lovely. The little effort she had made to
collect herself, to assume a certain majesty in her gait, was becoming to her. So also was
her plain morning dress, and the simple braid in which her hair was collected. It might certainly
be boasted of Miss Waddington that she was a beauty of the morning rather than of the night;
that her complexion was fitted for the sun rather than for gaslight.

He was going to give up all this! And why? That which he saw before him, that which he had
so often brought himself to believe, that which at this moment he actually did believe to be
as perfect a form of feminine beauty as might be found by any search in England, was as yet
his own. And he might keep it as his own. He knew, or thought he knew enough of her to be sure
that, let her feelings be what they might, she would not condescend to break her word to him.
Doubtless, she would marry him; and that in but a few months hence if only he would marry her!
Beautiful as she was, much as she was his own, much as he still loved her, he had come there
to reject her! All this flashed through his mind in a moment. He lost no time in idle thoughts.

"Caroline," he said, stretching out his hand to her--usually when he met her after any absence
he had used his hand to draw her nearer to him with more warmth than his present ordinary greeting
showed--"Caroline, I have come down to have some talk with you. There is that between us which
should be settled."

"Well, what is it?" she said, with the slightest possible smile.

"I will not, if I can help it, say any word to show that I am angry--"

"But are you angry, George? If so, had you not better show it? Concealment will never sit well
on you."

"I hope not; nor will I conceal anything willingly. It is because I so greatly dislike concealment
that I am here."

"You could not conceal anything if you tried, George. It is useless for you to say that you
will not show that you are angry. You are angry, and you do show it. What is it? I hope my
present sin is not a very grievous one. By your banishing poor aunt out of the drawing-room,
I fear it must be rather bad."

"I was dining with Mr. Harcourt last night, and it escaped him in conversation that you had
shown to him the letter which I wrote to you from Paris. Was it so, Caroline? Did you show
him that very letter?"

Certainly, no indifferent listener would have said that there was any tone of anger in Bertram's
voice; and yet there was that in it which made Miss Waddington feel that the room was swimming
round and round her. She turned ruby red up to her hair. Bertram had never before seen her
blush like that; for he had never before seen her covered by shame. Oh! how she had repented
showing that letter! How her soul had grieved over it from the very moment that it had passed
out of her hand! She had done so in the hotness of her passion. He had written to her sharp
stinging words which had maddened her. Up to that moment she had never known how sharp, how
stinging, how bitter words might be. The world had hitherto been so soft to her! She was there
told that she was unfeminine, unladylike! And then, he that was sitting by her was so smooth,
so sympathizing, so anxious to please her! In her anger and her sympathy she had shown it;
and from that day to this she had repented in the roughness of sackcloth and the bitterness
of ashes. It was possible that Caroline Waddington should so sin against a woman's sense of
propriety; that, alas! had been proved; but it was impossible that she should so sin and not
know that she had sinned, not feel the shame of it.

She did stand before him red with shame; but at the first moment she made no answer. It was
in her heart to kneel at his feet, to kneel in the spirit if not in the body, and ask his pardon;
but hitherto she had asked pardon of no human being. There was an effort in the doing of it
which she could not at once get over. Had his eyes looked tenderly on her for a moment, had
one soft tone fallen from his lips, she would have done it. Down she would have gone and implored
his pardon. And who that he had once loved had ever asked aught in vain from George Bertram?
Ah, that she had done so! How well they might have loved each other! What joy there might have
been!

But there was nothing tender in his eye, no tender tone softened the words which fell from
his mouth.

"What!" he said, and in spite of his promise, his voice had never before sounded so stern,--"what!
show that letter to another man; show that letter to Mr. Harcourt! Is that true, Caroline?"

A child asks pardon from his mother because he is scolded. He wishes to avert her wrath in
order that he may escape punishment. So also may a servant of his master, or an inferior of
his superior. But when one equal asks pardon of another, it is because he acknowledges and
regrets the injury he has done. Such acknowledgment, such regret will seldom be produced by
a stern face and a harsh voice. Caroline, as she looked at him and listened to him, did not
go down on her knees--not even mentally. Instead of doing so, she remembered her dignity, and
wretched as she was at heart, she continued to seat herself without betraying her misery.

"Is that true, Caroline? I will believe the charge against you from no other lips than your own."

"Yes, George; it is true. I did show your letter to Mr. Harcourt." So stern had he been in
his bearing that she could not condescend even to a word of apology.

He had hitherto remained standing; but on hearing this he flung himself into a chair and buried
his face in his hands. Even then she might have been softened, and he might have relented,
and all might have been well!

"I was very unhappy, George," she said; "that letter had made me very unhappy, and I hardly
knew where to turn for relief."

"What!" he said, jumping up and flashing before her in a storm of passion to which his former
sternness had been as nothing--"what! my letter made you so unhappy that you were obliged to
go to Mr. Harcourt for relief! You appealed for sympathy from me to him! from me who am--no,
who was, your affianced husband! Had you no idea of the sort of bond that existed between you
and me? Did you not know that there were matters in which you could not look for sympathy to
such as him without being false, nay, almost worse than false? Have you ever thought what it
is to be the one loved object of a man's heart, and to have accepted that love?" She had been
on the point of interrupting him, but the softness of these last words interrupted her for
a moment.

"Such a letter as that! Do you remember that letter, Caroline?"

"Yes, I remember it; remember it too well; I would not keep it. I would not feel that such
words from you were ever by me."

"You mean that it was harsh?"

"It was cruel."

"Harsh or cruel, or what you will--I shall not now stop to defend it--it was one which from
the very nature of it should have been sacred between us. It was written to you as to one to
whom I had a right to write as my future wife."

"No one could have a right to write such a letter as that."

"In it, I particularly begged that Mr. Harcourt might not be made an arbiter between us. I
made a special request that to him, at least, you would not talk of what causes of trouble
there might be between us; and yet you selected him as your confidant, read it with him, poured
over with him the words which had come hot from my heart, discussed with him my love--my--my--my--
Bah! I cannot endure it; had not you yourself told me so, I could not have believed it."

"George!--"

"Good God! that you should take my letters and read them over with him! Why, Caroline, it admits
but of one solution; there is but one reading to the riddle; ask all the world."

"We sent for him as your friend."

"Yes, and seem to have soon used him as your own. I have no friend to whom I allow the privilege
of going between me and my own heart's love. Yes, you were my own heart's love. I have to get
over that complaint now as best I may."

"I may consider then that all is over between us."

"Yes; there. You have back your hand. It is again your own to dispose of to whom you will.
Let you have what confidences you will, they will no longer imply falsehood to me."

"Then, sir, if such be the case, I think you may cease to scold me with such violence."

"I have long felt that I ought to give you this release; for I have known that you have not
thoroughly loved me."

Miss Waddington was too proud, too conscious of the necessity to maintain her pride at the
present moment to contradict this. But, nevertheless, in her heart she felt that she did love
him, that she would fain not give him up, that, in spite of his anger, his bitter railing anger,
she would keep him close to her if she only could do so. But now that he spoke of giving her
up, she could not speak passionately of her love--she who had never yet shown any passion in
her speech to him.

"It has grown on me from day to day; and I have been like a child in clinging to a hope when
I should have known that there was no hope. I should have known it when you deferred our marriage
for three years."

"Two years, George."

"Had it been two years, we should now have been married. I should have known it when I learned
that you and he were in such close intimacy in London. But now--I know it now. Now at least
it is all over."

"I can only be sorry that you have so long had so much trouble in the matter."

"Trouble--trouble! But I will not make a fool of myself. I believe at any rate that you understand
me."

"Oh! perfectly, Mr. Bertram."

But she did not understand him; nor perhaps was it very likely that she should understand him.
What he had meant her to understand was this: that in giving her up he was sacrificing only
himself, and not her; that he did so in the conviction that she did not care for him; and that
he did so on this account, strong as his own love still was, in spite of all her offences.
This was what he intended her to understand;--but she did not understand the half of it.

"And I may now go?" said she, rising from her chair. The blush of shame was over, and mild
as her words sounded, she again looked the Juno. "And I may now go?"

"Now go! yes; I suppose so. That is, I may go. That is what you mean. Well, I suppose I had
better go." Not a moment since he was towering with passion, and his voice, if not loud, had
been masterful, determined, and imperious. Now it was low and gentle enough. Even now, could
she have been tender to him, he would have relented. But she could not be tender. It was her
profession to be a Juno. Though she knew that when he was gone from her her heart would be
breaking, she would not bring herself down to use a woman's softness. She could not say that
she had been wrong, wrong because distracted by her misery, wrong because he was away from
her, wrong because disturbed in her spirits by the depth of the love she felt for him; she
could not confess this, and then, taking his hand, promise him that if he would remain close
to her she would not so sin again. Ah! if she could have done this, in one moment her head
would have been on his shoulder and his arm round her waist; and in twenty minutes more Miss
Baker would have been informed, sitting as she now was up in her bedroom, that the wedding-day
had been fixed.

But very different news Miss Baker had to hear. Had things turned out so, Miss Waddington would
have been a woman and not a goddess. No; great as was the coming penalty, she could not do
that. She had been railed at and scolded as never goddess was scolded before. Whatever she
threw away, it behoved her to maintain her dignity. She would not bend to a storm that had
come blustering over her so uncourteously.

Bertram had now risen to go. "It would be useless for me to trouble your aunt," he said. "Tell
her from me that I would not have gone without seeing her had I not wished to spare her pain.
Good-bye, Caroline, and may God bless you;" and, so saying, he put out his hand to her.

"Good-bye, Mr. Bertram." She would have said something more, but she feared to trust herself
with any word that might have any sound of tenderness. She took his hand, however, and returned
the pressure which he gave it.

She looked into his eyes, and saw that they were full of tears; but still she did not speak.
Oh, Caroline Waddington, Caroline Waddington! if it had but been given thee to know, even then,
how much of womanhood there was in thy bosom, of warm womanhood, how little of goddess-ship,
of cold goddess-ship, it might still have been well with thee! But thou didst not know. Thou
hadst gotten there at any rate thy Juno's pedestal; and having that, needs was that thou shouldst
stand on it.

"God bless you, Caroline; good-bye," he repeated again, and turned to the door.

"I wish to ask you one question before you go," she said, as his hand was on the handle of
the lock; and she spoke in a voice that was almost goddess-like; that hardly betrayed, but
yet that did betray, the human effort. Bertram paused, and again turned to her.

"In your accusation against me just now--"

"I made no accusation, Caroline."

"You not only made it, Mr. Bertram, but I pleaded guilty to it. But in making it you mentioned
Mr. Harcourt's name. While you were absent in Paris, I did talk with that gentleman on our
private affairs, yours and mine. I hope I am believed to have done so because I regarded Mr.
Harcourt as your friend?"

Bertram did not understand her, and he showed that he did not by his look.

"It is difficult for me to explain myself"--and now she blushed slightly--very slightly. "What
I mean is this; I wish to be acquitted by you of having had recourse to Mr. Harcourt on my
own account--from any partiality of my own." She almost rose in height as she stood there before
him, uttering these words in all her cold but beautiful dignity. Whatever her sins might have
been, he should not accuse her of having dallied with another while her word and her troth
had been his. She had been wrong. She could not deny that he had justice on his side--stern,
harsh, bare justice--when he came there to her and flung back her love and promises into her
teeth. He had the right to do so, and she would not complain. But he should not leave her till
he had acquitted her of the vile, missish crime of flirting with another because he was absent.
Seeing that he still hardly understood her, she made her speech yet plainer.

"At the risk of being told again that I am unfeminine, I must explain myself. Do you charge
me with having allowed Mr. Harcourt to speak to me as a lover?"

"No; I make no such charge. Now, I have no right to make any charge on such a matter."

"No; should Mr. Harcourt be my lover now, that is my affair and his, not yours. But had he
been so then-- You owe it to me to say whether among other sins, that sin also is charged against
me?"

"I have charged and do charge nothing against you, but this--that you have ceased to love me.
And that charge will be made nowhere but in my own breast. I am not a jealous man, as I think
you might know. What I have said to you here to-day has not come of suspicion. I have thought
no ill against you, and believed no ill against you beyond that which you have yourself acknowledged.
I find that you have ceased to love me, and finding that, I am indifferent to whom your love
may be given." And so saying, he opened the door and went out; nor did he ever again see Miss
Waddington at Littlebath.

Some few minutes after he had left the room, Miss Baker entered it. She had heard the sound
of the front door, and having made inquiry of the servant, had learned that their visitor had
gone. Then she descended to her own drawing-room, and found Caroline sitting upright at the
table, as though in grief she despised the adventitious aid and every-day solace of a sofa.
There was no tear in her eye, none as yet; but it required no tears to tell her aunt that all
was not well. Judging by the face she looked at, aunt Mary was inclined to say that all was
as little well as might be.

There was still to be seen there the beauty, and the dignity, and still even in part the composure
of a Juno; but it was such composure as Juno might have shown while she devoted to a third
destruction the walls of a thrice-built Troy; of Juno in grief, in jealousy, almost in despair;
but of Juno still mindful of her pedestal, still remembering that there she stood a mark for
the admiration of gods and men. How long shall this Juno mood serve to sustain her? Ah! how long?

"Has he gone?" said Miss Baker, as she looked at her niece.

"Yes, aunt, he has gone."

"When will he return?"

"He will not return, aunt. He will not come any more; it is all over at last."

Miss Baker stood for a moment trembling, and then threw herself upon a seat. She had at least
had no celestial gift by which she could compose herself. "Oh, Caroline!" she exclaimed.

"Yes, aunt Mary; it is all over now."

"You mean that you have quarrelled?" said she, remembering to her comfort, that there was some
old proverb about the quarrels of lovers. Miss Baker had great faith in proverbs.

The reader may find it hard to follow Miss Baker's mind on the subject of this engagement.
Some time since she was giving advice that it should be broken off, and now she was au désespoir
because that result had been reached. She had one of those minds that are prone to veering,
and which show by the way they turn, not any volition of their own, but the direction of some
external wind, some external volition. Nor can one be angry with, or despise Miss Baker for
this weathercock aptitude. She was the least selfish of human beings, the least opinionative,
the most good-natured. She had had her hot fits and her cold fits with regard to Bertram; but
her hot fits and her cold had all been hot or cold with reference to what she conceived to
be her niece's chances of happiness. Latterly, she had fancied that Caroline did love Bertram
too well to give him up; and circumstances had led her to believe more strongly than ever that
old Mr. Bertram wished the marriage, and that the two together, if married, would certainly
inherit his wealth. So latterly, during the last month or so, Miss Baker had blown very hot.

"No, there has been no quarrel," said Caroline, with forced tranquillity of voice and manner.
"No such quarrel as you mean. Do not deceive yourself, dear aunt; it is over now, over for ever."

"For ever, Caroline!"

"Yes, for ever. That has been said which can never be unsaid. Do not grieve about it"--aunt
Mary was now in tears--"it is better so; I am sure it is better. We should not have made each
other happy."

"But three years, Caroline; three years!" said aunt Mary through her tears, thinking of the
time that had been so sadly lost. Aunt Mary was widely awake to the fact that three years was
a long period in a girl's life, and that to have passed three years as the betrothed of one
man and then to leave him was injurious to the matrimonial prospects of a young lady. Miss
Baker was full of these little mundane considerations; but then they were never exercised,
never had been exercised, on her own behalf.

"Yes, three years!" and Caroline smiled, even through her grief. "It cannot be helped, aunt.
And the rest of it; neither can that be helped. Three years! say thirty, aunt."

Miss Baker looked at her, not quite understanding. "And must it be so?" said she.

"Must! oh, yes, indeed it must. It must now, must--must--must."

Then they both sat silent for awhile. Miss Baker was longing to know the cause of this sudden
disruption, but she hesitated at first to inquire. It was not, however, to be borne that the
matter should be allowed to remain altogether undiscussed.

"But what is it he has said?" she at last asked. Caroline had never told her aunt that that
letter had been shown to Mr. Harcourt, and had no intention of telling her so now.

"I could not tell you, aunt, all that passed. It was not what he said more than what I said.
At least--no; that is not true. It did arise from what he said; but I would not answer him
as he would have me; and so we agreed to part."

"He wished to have the marriage at once?"

"No; I think he wished no such thing. You may rest assured he wishes no marriage now; none
with me, at least. And rest assured of this, too, that I wish none with him. Wish! it is no
use wishing. It is now impossible."

Again there was a silence, and again it was broken by Miss Baker. "I wonder whether you ever
really loved him? Sometimes I have thought you never did."

"Perhaps not," said she, musing on her fate.

"If it is never to be, I hope that you did not."

"It would be to be hoped--to be hoped for me, and to be hoped also for him."

"Oh, he loved you. There is no doubt of that; no doubt at all of that. If any man ever loved
a girl, he loved you." To this Miss Waddington answered nothing, nor would she just then talk
any further with her aunt upon the subject. They were to dine early on that day, as their custom
was when they went out in the evening. On this evening they were going to the house--lodgings
rather--of an old friend they had not seen for some time. She had arrived a week or two since
at Littlebath, and though there had been callings between them, they had not yet succeeded
in meeting. When Bertram had arrived it was near their dinner hour and before he went that
hour was already passed. Had his manner been as it ordinarily was, he would of course have
been asked to join them; but, as we have seen, that had been no moment for such customary civility.

Now, however, they went to dinner, and while seated there, Miss Waddington told her aunt that
she did not feel equal to going out that evening. Miss Baker of course said something in opposition
to this, but that something was not much. It might easily be understood that a young lady who
had just lost her lover was not in a fit state to go to a Littlebath card-party.

And thus early in the evening Caroline contrived to be alone; and then for the first time she
attempted to realize all that had come upon her. Hitherto she had had to support herself--herself
and her goddess-ship,--first before George Bertram, and then with lighter effort before her
aunt. But now that she was alone, she could descend to humanity. Now that she was alone she
had so to descend.

Yes; she had lost three years. To a mortal goddess, who possessed her divinity but for a short
time, this was much. Her doctrine had been to make the most of the world. She had early resolved
not to throw away either herself or her chances. And now that she was three-and-twenty, how
had she kept her resolves? how had her doctrine answered with her? She had lived before the
world for the last two years as a girl betrothed to a lover--before such of the world as she
knew and as knew her; and now her lover was gone; not dismissed by her, but gone! He had rather
dismissed her, and that not in the most courteous manner.

But, to do her justice, this was not the grief that burnt most hotly into her heart. She said
to herself that it was so, that this was her worst grief; she would fain have felt that it
was so; but there was more of humanity in her, of the sweetness of womanly humanity, than she
was aware. He had left her, and she knew not how to live without him. That was the thorn that
stuck fast in her woman's bosom. She could never again look into those deep, thoughtful eyes;
never again feel the pressure of that strong, manly arm; never hear the poetry of that rich
voice as she had heard it when he poured words of love and truth into her ear. Bertram had
many faults, and while he belonged to her, she had thought of them often enough; but he had
many virtues also, and now she could think but of them.

She had said that he was gone, gone for ever. It was easy enough to say that with composed
voice to Miss Baker. There is nothing so easy as bravado. The wretch who is to be hung can
step lightly while multitudes are looking at him. The woman who is about to give up all that
her heart most values can declare out loud that the matter is very indifferent to her. But
when the victim of the law is lying in his solitary cell, thinking on his doom, the morning
before the executioner comes to him; when the poor girl is sitting alone on her bedside, with
her heart all empty,--or rather not empty, only hopeless; it is very difficult then to maintain
a spirit of bravado!

Caroline Waddington did try it. She had often said to herself, in months now some time past,
that she repented of her engagement. If so, now was the time to congratulate herself that she
was free from it. But she could not congratulate herself. While he had entirely belonged to
her, she had not known how thoroughly she had loved him. When she had only thought of parting
with him, she had believed that it would be easy. But now she found that it was not so easy.
It was about as easy for her to pluck his image from her heart as to draw one of her limbs
from the socket.

But the limb had to be drawn from the socket. There was no longer any hope that it could be
saved. Nay, it had been already given up as far as the expression of the will was concerned,
and there was nothing left but to bear the pain.

So she sat down and began to draw out the limb. Oh, my sensitive reader! have you ever performed
the process? It is by no means to be done with rose-water appliances and gentle motherly pressure.
The whole force of the hospital has to be brought out to perform this operation.

She now discovered, perhaps, for the first time, that she had a strong beating heart, and that
she loved this violent capricious man with every strong pulse of it. There was more about him
now that was lovable by such a woman as Caroline Waddington than when he had first spoken of
his love on the side of Mount Olivet. Then he had been little more than a boy; a boy indeed
with a high feeling, with a poetic nature, and much humour. But these gifts had hardly sufficed
to win her heart. Now he had added to these a strong will, a power of command, a capability
of speaking out to the world with some sort of voice. After all, power and will are the gifts
which a woman most loves in a man.

And now that Caroline had lost her lover, she confessed to herself that she did love him. Love
him! Yes! How could she recover him? That was her first thought. She could not recover him
in any way. That was her second thought. As to asking him to come back to her; the wrenching
of the limb from the socket would be better than that. That, at least, she knew she could not
do. And was it possible that he of his own accord should come back to her? No, it was not possible.
The man was tender hearted, and could have been whistled back with the slightest lure while
yet they two were standing in the room together. But he was as proud as he was tender. Though
there might also be some wrenching to be done within his heart, he would never come back again
uninvited.

And thus, while Miss Baker was at her old friend's card-party, Miss Waddington sat in her own
bedroom, striving, with bitter tears and violent struggles, to reconcile herself to her loss.

CHAPTER VI.

SIR LIONEL IN TROUBLE.

It has been said that Miss Baker was going to spend the evening with an old friend. I trust
that Miss Todd, umquhile of the valley of Jehoshaphat, and now of No. 7 Paragon, Littlebath,
has not been forgotten; Miss Todd of the free heart and the rosy face.

Yes, Miss Todd had come to Littlebath, and was intent rather on forming a party of Toddites
than of joining herself to either of the regular sets. She was perhaps not much given to be
pious, and she certainly was but ill inclined to be slow. If fast, however, she chose to be
fast in her own line.

But before we have the pleasure of attending at her soirée, we must say a word or two of one
of the most distinguished of the expected guests. Sir Lionel was to be there.

Now Sir Lionel had been leading a pleasant life at Littlebath, with one single exception--that
he was rather in want of funds. He had capital apartments, four rooms ensuite, a man-servant,
a groom, three horses, and a phaeton, and no one was more looked up to at Littlebath. Ladies
smiled, young men listened, old gentlemen brought out their best wines, and all was delightful.
All but this, that the "res angusta" did occasionally remind him that he was mortal. Oh, that
sordid brother of his, who could have given him thousands on thousands without feeling the
loss of them! We have been unable to see much of old Mr. Bertram in recapitulating the story
of young Mr. Bertram's latter doings. But it should have been said, that early in the present
year he had not been quite as well as his friends could wish. George had gone to see him once
or twice, and so also had his niece Miss Baker, and his granddaughter. He had said but very
little to them; but on Miss Baker's mind an impression had been left that it would please him
to see the marriage completed.

And at this time likewise his brother, Sir Lionel, had thought it expedient to see him. There
had hitherto been no interview between them since Sir Lionel's return. The colonel had found
out, and had been duly astonished at finding out, the history of Miss Baker and her niece.
That George and Caroline would be the heirs to a great portion of his brother's money he could
not doubt; that Miss Baker would have something he thought probable; and then he reflected,
that in spite of all that was come and gone, his brother's heart might relent on his death-bed.
It might be that he could talk the sick man round; and if that were impracticable, he might
at least learn how others stood in his brother's favour. Sir Lionel was not now a young man
himself. Ease and a settled life would be good for him. What, if he married Miss Baker!

He first called on Pritchett. Mr. Pritchett told him that his brother was better--considerably
better. Sir Lionel was in raptures. He had hurried up from Littlebath in an agony. He had heard
most distressing accounts. He would however go down to Hadley and see his brother.

"I am afraid Mr. Bertram is not very much up to company just at present," wheezed out Mr. Pritchett.

"But a brother, you know," suggested Sir Lionel.

Pritchett knew exactly how the brothers stood with each other; and he himself, though he was
very partial to Mr. George, had not any warm love for Sir Lionel.

"Oh, yes; a brother is a brother, surely. But, Mr. Bertram, you know, sir--"

"You mean," said Sir Lionel, "that he is a little vexed about the account."

"Oh, yes, the account; there is the account, Sir Lionel. If it is to settle that, perhaps I
can manage without troubling you to go to Hadley. Not but what settling the account will make
matters smoother."

Sir Lionel could get nothing more from Mr. Pritchett; but he would not be put off from his
intention, and he did go to Hadley. He found his brother sitting up in the dining-room, but
he would not have known him. And, indeed, many who had seen him lately might have had some
difficulty in recognizing him. He was not only lean and lank, and worn and wan, but he spoke
with some difficulty, and on close examination it might be seen that his mouth was twisted
as it were from the centre of his face. Since his relatives had seen him he had suffered what
is genteelly called a slight threatening of paralysis.

But his mind, if touched at all, had recovered itself; and his spirit was in nowise paralyzed.
When Sir Lionel was shown into the room--he had first of all taken the precaution of sending
down his card from the hotel, and saying that he would call in half an hour--the old man put
out his hand to him, but did not attempt to rise from his chair. It must be remembered that
the brothers had not seen each other for more than fifteen years.

Sir Lionel had tutored himself carefully as to what he would say and what do. "George," he
said, and the old man shrank as he heard the unaccustomed name. "When I heard that you were
ill, I could not but come and see you."

"Very good of you, Sir Lionel; very good of you," growled the old man.

"It is fifteen years since we met, and we are both old men now."

"I am an old man now, and nearly worn out; too old and far gone to have many wants. You are
not in that condition, I suppose."

There was an amount of sarcasm in his voice as he spoke, and in his eye also as he looked at
his brother, which made Sir Lionel perfectly understand that his rich relative was not specially
anxious to be kind to him.

"Well, we are neither of us quite so far gone as that, I hope--not quite so far gone as that;"
and Sir Lionel looked very pleasant. "But, speaking for myself, I have not many wants now"--nor
had he, pleasant old man that he was; only three or four comfortable rooms for himself and
his servant; a phaeton and a pair of horses; and another smaller establishment in a secluded
quiet street; nothing more than that, including of course all that was excellent in the eating
and drinking line--"speaking for myself, I have not many wants now." And he did look very good-humoured
and pleasant as he spoke.

Mr. Bertram senior did not look good-humoured or pleasant. There was that in his old eye which
was the very opposite to good-humour and pleasantness.

"Ah!" said he. "Well I am glad of that, for you will be able to do the more for poor George.
He will have wants; he is going to take care and trouble on himself. Neither he nor his sweetheart
have, I take it, been accustomed to do without wants; and their income will be tight enough--forby
what you can do for them."

The colonel sat and still looked pleasant, but he began to think that it might be as well for
him that he was back at Littlebath.

"Poor George! I hope they will be happy. I think they will; my greatest anxiety now is of course
for their happiness; and yours is the same, doubtless. It is odd that my child and your child's
child should thus come together, is it not?" so spoke the colonel.

Mr. Bertram looked at him; looked through him almost, but he said nothing.

"It is odd," continued Sir Lionel, "but a very happy circumstance. She is certainly the sweetest
girl I ever saw; and George is a lucky fellow."

"Yes, he is a lucky fellow; he will get more than he has any right to expect. First and last
she will have six thousand pounds. I have not heard him say what he means to settle on her;
but perhaps he was waiting till you had come home."

Sir Lionel's forte during his whole official career had been the making pleasant--by the pleasantness
that was innate in him--things which appeared to be going in a very unpleasant manner. But
how was he to make things pleasant now?

"Well, you see, George has been so much knocked about! There was his fellowship. I think they
behaved shabbily enough to him."

"Fellowship! One hundred and seventy pounds a year and the run of his teeth at feast time,
or some such thing as that. A man can't marry on his fellowship very well!"

"Ha! ha! ha! no, he can't exactly do that. On the whole, I think it was quite as well that
he threw it up; and so I told him."

"Did you tell him at the same time what his future income was to be?"

"No, upon my soul I did not; but if all I hear be true, I believe you did. You have been exceedingly
generous to him, George--and to me also."

"Then, Sir Lionel, allow me to tell you that all you hear is not true. Anything at all that
you may have heard of that kind, if you have heard anything, is perfectly false. I have said
nothing to George about his income, and have nothing to say to him."

"Well, I may have expressed myself wrongly, and perhaps you did say nothing. I was alluding
especially to what you have done."

"I will tell you exactly what I have done. I thought he showed a high spirit when he threw
up his fellowship, and as I had always a great contempt for those Oxford fellows, I sent him
a thousand pounds. It was a present, and I hope he will make good use of it."

"I am sure he will," said Sir Lionel, who certainly had just cause for such confidence, seeing
how large a slice out of the sum had been placed at his own disposal.

"I am sure he will," said Sir Lionel. "Indeed, I know that he has."

"Ah, I'm glad to hear of it; of course you know more about it than I do; of course you are
arranging these matters. But that is all he has had from me, and all that he is likely to have."

If such were to be the treatment of George, of George who was certainly in some respects a
favourite, what hope could Sir Lionel have for himself? But it was not so much his brother's
words which led him to fear that his brother's money-bags were impregnable to him as his brother's
voice and his brother's eye. That eye was never off him, and Sir Lionel did begin to wish that
he was at Littlebath.

"I don't know whether George may have formed any hopes," continued the old man; but here Sir
Lionel interrupted him, and not imprudently: if anything was to be said, it should be said now.

"Well, if he has formed hopes, George, you cannot but own that it is natural. He has looked
on you as a man without any child of your own, and he has been taught so to look by your treating
him almost as though he were your son."

"You mean that I paid his school debts and his Oxford debts when you forgot to do so," growled
out the elder brother.

"Yes, and that you afterwards gave him an income when he came up to live in London. I hope
you do not think that I am ungrateful, George?" and Sir Lionel used his softest and, at the
same time, his most expressive tone.

"Grateful! I seldom look for much gratitude. But I shall be glad to know when it may suit you
to settle with me. The account has been running on now for a great many years. Probably Pritchett
may have sent it you." And as he spoke Mr. Bertram rose from his chair and took an ominous-looking
piece of paper from off the mantelpiece.

"Yes, Mr. Pritchett is punctuality itself in these matters," said Sir Lionel, with a gentle
laugh, which had not about it all his usual pleasantness.

"You have probably checked it, and can say whether or no it be correct," said Mr. Bertram senior,
looking at the paper in his hand.

"Well, I can't say that I have exactly; but I don't in the least doubt the figures, not in
the least; Mr. Pritchett is always correct, I know."

"Yes, Mr. Pritchett is generally correct. And may I ask, Sir Lionel, what you intend to do
in the matter?"

It was necessary now that Sir Lionel should summon up his best courage. He reminded himself
that after all his brother was but a feeble old man--impotent in all but money; and as it seemed
now clear that no further pecuniary aid was to be expected, why need he fear him on this account?
Had it been possible for him to get away without further talk, he would have done so; but this
was not possible, so he determined to put a good face on it.

"I suppose you are joking now, George," said he.

I wish I could describe the tone of voice in which the word joking was repeated by the elder
Mr. Bertram. It made the military knight jump in his chair, and confess to himself that the
word impotent could not be safely applied to his ancient relative.

"Well, I dare say it is a joke," the old man went on to say. "If I expect to be paid what I
have expended in saving George from being turned loose upon the world without education, I
suppose it is a joke. Ha! ha! ha! I never thought of laughing at it before, but now I will.
I always heard that you were a joker, Sir Lionel. Ha! ha! ha! I dare say you have laughed at
it often enough yourself, eh?"

"What I mean is this, when you took upon yourself George's education and maintenance, you could
hardly have intended to have it paid back again by such a poor devil as I am."

"Oh, I couldn't, couldn't I?"

"At any rate, I don't suppose you did count on having your money back."

"Well, I must admit this, I did not feel very sure of it; I did think there might be a doubt.
But what could I do? I could not let poor Wilkinson ruin himself because you would not pay
your debts."

"I am sorry that you take it up in such a manner," said the colonel, assuming a tone of injured
innocence. "I came here because I heard that you were ill--"

"Thought I was dying, eh?"

"I did not exactly think that you were dying, George; but I knew that you were very ill, and
old feelings came back on me. The feelings of our early youth, George; and I could not be happy
without seeing you."

"Very kind of you, I am sure. You altogether decline then to settle the account, eh?"

"If you desire it, I will--will make arrangements, certainly; you do not want it all at once,
I suppose?"

"Oh, no; half in three months, and other half in six will do for me."

"It would take a great deal more than all my income to do that, I fear."

"Your professional income; yes, I suppose it would. I fear they don't give you five or six
thousand a year for staying at home at Littlebath. But surely you must have saved money; you
must have intended to do something for your son?"

"I have looked upon him as provided for by his uncle."

"Oh!"

"And have therefore been satisfied that he would do well."

"Now, Sir Lionel, I will tell you how the matter is. I know you will never repay me a shilling
of this money, and therefore I shall tell Pritchett not to bother himself with sending you
any more accounts."

"He is a worthy man, and I am sorry he should have had so much trouble."

"So am I, very; but that's done. He has had the trouble, and I've paid the money; and, as far
as George is concerned, I do not begrudge it."

"You would not if you knew what his sentiments are."

"I don't care a fig for his sentiments."

"His feelings of gratitude to you are very strong."

"No, they are not. He is not in the least grateful to me, nor do I wish him to be so. He is
an honest lad, with a high spirit, a good heart, and a bad head. Sometimes I have thought of
making him my heir."

"Ah!" sighed Sir Lionel.

"But I have now firmly made up my mind to do no such thing. He has no knowledge of the worth
of money. He does not value money."

"Oh, there you mistake him; indeed, you do."

"He would do no good with it; and, as regards mine, he won't have it." Sir Lionel's face again
became very doleful.

"But who will have it, George? Whom else have you got to leave it to?"

"When I want to consult you on that subject, I'll send for you; just at present I have no wish
to do so. And now, if you please, we'll say no more about money."

Nothing more was said about money, and very little on any other subject. On what other subject
could a pleasant votary of pleasure, such as Sir Lionel, wish to hold conversation with a worn-out
old miser from the city? He had regarded his brother as a very full sponge, from which living
water might probably be squeezed. But the sponge, it seemed, was no longer squeezable by him
in any way. So he left Hadley as quickly as he could, and betook himself to Littlebath with
a somewhat saddened heart. He consoled himself, however, by reflecting that an old man's whims
are seldom very enduring, and that George might yet become a participator in the huge prize;
if not on his own account, at least on that of his wife.

Sir Lionel returned to Littlebath, resolving that come what might he would not again have personal
recourse to his brother. He had tried his diplomatic powers and had failed--failed in that
line on being successful in which he so pre-eminently piqued himself. In Ireland it is said
of any man who is more than ordinarily persuasive, that he can "talk the devil out of the liver
wing of a turkey!" Sir Lionel had always supposed himself to be gifted with this eloquence;
but in that discourse at Hadley, the devil had been too stout for him, and he had gone away
without any wing at all--liver or other.

On one point on which he had been very anxious to say a word or two, he had been unable to
introduce the slightest hint. He had not dreamt that it would be possible to ask his brother
in so many words whether or no Miss Baker would be made a participator in the great prize;
but he had imagined that he might have led the way to some conversation which would have shown
what were the old man's feelings with reference to that lady. But, as the reader will have
perceived, he had not been able to lead the conversation in any way; and he had left Hadley
without further light for the guidance of his steps in that matrimonial path in which he had
contemplated the expediency of taking a leisurely evening stroll.

The wicked old miser had declared that George should not be his heir; and had also said that
which was tantamount to a similar declaration regarding Caroline. She would have six thousand
pounds, first and last. Nothing more than a beggarly six thousand pounds, of which two-thirds
were already her own without thanks to any one. What a wretched old miser! Who then would have
his money? It would hardly be possible that he would leave it all to Miss Baker. And yet he
might. It was just possible. Anything was possible with a capricious miserly old fool like
that. What a catch would it be if he, Sir Lionel, could become the heir in so deliciously easy
a manner!

But, in all probability, anything the old man might say was exactly the opposite of that which
he intended to do. He probably would leave his money to George--or very probably to Caroline;
but most probably he would do something for Miss Baker; something handsome for that soft, obedient
handmaid who had never disobeyed any of his commands; and, better still, had never drawn upon
him for more than her regular allowance.

Such were Sir Lionel's thoughts as he made his way back to Littlebath. Yes; he would make himself
acceptable to Miss Baker. That George, old George, was not long for this world was very evident
to the colonel. He, troublesome old cross-grained churl that he was, would soon be out of the
way. Such being certain--all but certain--could not Sir Lionel manage matters in this way?
Could he not engage himself to the lady while his brother was yet alive, and then marry her
afterwards--marry her, or perhaps not marry her, as might then become expedient? He was well
sure of this, that if she promised to marry him before her acquisition of fortune, such acquisition
would not induce her to break off from the match. "She is too true, too honourable for that,"
said Sir Lionel to himself, feeling a warm admiration for the truth of her character, as he
resolved how he might himself best back out of such an engagement in the event of its being
expedient for him so to do.

So passed his thoughts as he made his way back to Littlebath. And when there he did not allow
idleness to mar his schemes. He immediately began to make himself pleasant--more than ordinarily
pleasant to Miss Baker. He did not make love to her after the manner of his youth. Had he done
so, he would only have frightened the gentle lady. But he was assiduous in his attentions,
soft and sweetly flattering in his speech, and friendly, oh, so friendly, in his manner! He
called almost every day at Montpellier Crescent. To be sure, there was nothing unnatural in
this, for was he not about to become the father of his dear Caroline? But dear to him as his
dear Caroline might be, his softest whispers, his most sugared words, were always for her aunt.

He had ever some little proposition to make, some kind family suggestion to put forward. He
was a man of the world; they were ladies, delicate, unfit for coping with the world, necessarily
ignorant of its naughtier, darker ways; he would do everything for them: and by degrees he
did almost everything for Miss Baker.

And so that lady was charmed without knowing it. Let us do her full justice. She had not the
remotest idea of opening a flirtation with Sir Lionel Bertram. She had looked on him as the
future father-in-law of her own dear child; never as anything more: no idea of becoming Lady
Bertram had ever for an instant flashed upon her imagination. But, nevertheless, by degrees
the warrior's attentions became pleasant to her.

She had had no youthful adorers, this poor, good Miss Baker; never, at least, since she had
been merry as other children are, "when her little lovers came." She had advanced to her present
nearly mature age without perhaps feeling the want of them. But, nevertheless, even in her
bosom was living the usual feminine passion for admiration. She was no "lusus naturæ," but
a woman with a heart, and blood in her veins; and not as yet a very old woman either. And therefore,
though she had no idea that Sir Lionel was her lover, she had learned to be fond of him.

Her little conversations with Caroline on this subject were delightful. The younger lady was
certainly the sharper of the two; and though she had her own concerns to occupy her, she was
able to see that something might perhaps be intended. Her liking for Sir Lionel was by no means
a strong passion. Something probably had passed between her and George; for George could keep
no secret from her. At any rate, she suspected the knight, but she could not say anything to
put her aunt on her guard beyond using cold expressions in speaking of her future father. But
Miss Baker, who suspected nothing, who expected nothing, could not be too lavish in her praises.

"Caroline," she would say, "I do think you are so happy in having such a father-in-law."

"Oh, certainly," Caroline had answered. "But, for myself, I think more of my father-in-law's son."

"Oh, of course you do; I know that. But Sir Lionel is such a perfect gentleman. Did you ever
know a gentleman of his age so attentive to ladies as he is?"

"Well, perhaps not; except one or two old men whom I have seen making love."

"That's a very different sort of thing, you know--that's absurd. But I must say I think Sir
Lionel's behaviour is perfect." What would she have said of Sir Lionel's behaviour had she
known all the secrets of his establishments?

And thus, partly on Sir Lionel's account, Miss Baker began in these days to have perhaps her
hottest fit, her strongest wish with reference to her niece's marriage. And then just at this
hottest moment came the blow which has been told of in the last chapter.

But Miss Baker, as she prepared herself for Miss Todd's party, would not believe that the matter
was hopeless. The quarrels of lovers have ever been the renewal of love, since the day when
a verb between two nominative cases first became possessed of the power of agreeing with either
of them. There is something in this sweet easiness of agreement which seems to tend to such
reconciliations. Miss Baker was too good a grammarian to doubt the fact.

She would probably, under existing circumstances, have stayed at home with her niece, but that
she knew she should meet Sir Lionel at Miss Todd's party. She was very anxious to learn whether
Sir Lionel had heard of this sad interruption to their harmony; anxious to hear what Sir Lionel
would say about it; anxious to concert measures with Sir Lionel for repairing the breach--that
is, if Sir Lionel should appear to be cognizant that the breach existed. If she should find
that he was not cognizant, she would not tell him; at least she thought she would not. Circumstances
must of course govern her conduct to a certain degree when the moment of meeting should arrive.
And so Miss Baker went to the party, certainly with a saddened heart, but comforted in some
degree by the assurance that she would meet Sir Lionel. "Dear Sir Lionel, what a thing it is
to have a friend," she said to herself as she stepped into the fly. Yes, indeed, the best thing
in the world--the very best. But, dear Miss Baker, it is of all things the most difficult to
acquire--and especially difficult for both ladies and gentlemen after forty years of age.

In the meantime, Sir Lionel had been calling on Miss Todd--had heard a good deal about Miss
Todd; and was strong at heart, as a man is strong who has two good strings to his bow.

CHAPTER VII.

MISS TODD'S CARD-PARTY.

Yes. The great Miss Todd had arrived at Littlebath, and had already been talked about not a
little. Being a maiden lady, with no family but her one own maid, she lived in lodgings of
course. People at Littlebath, indeed, are much given to lodgings. They are mostly a come-and-go
class of beings, to whom the possession of furniture and the responsibilities of householding
would be burdensome. But then Miss Todd's lodgings were in the Paragon, and all the world knows
how much it costs to secure eligible rooms in the Paragon: two spacious sitting-rooms, for
instance, a bedroom, and a closet for one's own maid. And Miss Todd had done this in the very
best corner of the Paragon; in that brazen-faced house which looks out of the Paragon right
down Montpellier Avenue as regards the front windows, and from the back fully commands the
entrance to the railway station. This was Mrs. O'Neil's house; and, as Mrs. O'Neil herself
loudly boasted when Miss Todd came to inspect the premises, she rarely took single ladies,
or any ladies that had not handles to their names. Her very last lodger had been Lady McGuffern,
the widow of the medical director of the great Indian Eyesore district, as Mrs. O'Neil called
it. And Lady McGuffern had paid her, oh! ever so much per week; and had always said on every
Saturday--"Mrs. O'Neil, your terms for such rooms as these are much too low." It is in such
language that the widows of Scotch doctors generally speak of their lodgings when they are
paying their weekly bills.

And these rooms Miss Todd had secured. She had, moreover, instantly sent for Mr. Wutsanbeans,
who keeps those remarkably neat livery stables at the back of the Paragon, and in ten minutes
had concluded her bargain for a private brougham and private coachman in demi-livery at so
much per week. "And very wide awake she is, is Miss Todd," said the admiring Mr. Wutsanbeans,
as he stood among his bandy-legged satellites. And then her name was down at the assembly-rooms,
and in the pump-room, and the book-room, and in the best of sittings in Mr. O'Callaghan's fashionable
church, in almost less than no time. There were scores of ladies desirous of being promoted
from the side walls to the middle avenues in Mr. O'Callaghan's church; for, after all, what
is the use of a French bonnet when stuck under a side wall? But though all these were desirous,
and desirous in vain, Miss Todd at once secured a place where her head was the cynosure of
all the eyes of the congregation. Such was Miss Todd's power, and therefore do we call her great.

