 "I won't have accidents always," August replied.

"But what do they do with so many ducks?" asked Tommy.

"Why, half the poor Chinese people near the coast live on the water all the time in boats that
are half houses. Of course they could not keep hens, but they can
keep ducks and they do."

"Oh,
yes!" cried Tommy. "I'member how papa told about seeing them fed and called into the boats.
He said every flock knew its own call, and would go scuttling through the water to the right
boat. He thought they were in this d'edful hurry, cause the last
one got whipped."

"What shall I do about school, mamma?" August asked.

"Oh! go, and recite your most important lessons," she answered wisely. "I will take care of
the eggs and chickens till you return."

It was just as well for August to be occupied, since the hatching, although it went on surely, was slow
work.

  With great faith in his incubator, August
  had previously built a little yard for the
  expected chickens.
  
  It was in box form, about eight feet long and two
  feet wide.

In the center was a feeding-tray and water tank, and at one end a
hover.

This hover (H) was lined with soft fur loosely tacked to the top and sides and hanging down
the front in narrow strips to form a curtain. It sloped from the front to the back. The water tank
was a stout earthen bottle in a saucer; a small hole near the bottom of the bottle let the
water, drop by drop, into the saucer, so that as the chickens drank, the supply in the saucer was continually
freshening. The bottom of the yard was covered with gravel three inches deep. This neat yard was
now waiting down stairs in a sunny shed room to receive the chickens.

August went to school, and on his way home called for his grandmother to go up to the house
to dinner.

Grandma knew that it was just three weeks since August had taken the last eggs, and that twenty-one
days was the time allotted by nature for the bringing forth of chickens, so she shrewdly suspected
what she would find; but it had not occurred to her that she would find chickens alive without the
aid of a hen.

"Grandma," asked August, as they walked along "when you set a hen on thirteen eggs, how many do
you expect will hatch?"
"I hope for all," she replied, "but I seldom get all. I think ten
out of thirteen is a very good proportion."

"My incubator beats your
hens!" thought August.

When they reached the house he took her straight
to the attic.

"Well, I never!" she exclaimed. "So that is your secret,
August! Well, I declare! And it really hatches the eggs, doesn't it?
I always knew, child, that you would invent something wonderful."

"I
didn't invent much," he said modestly. "In 1750, Réaumur, the French
naturalist, gave an account of his experiments in hatching eggs in
barrels set in hot-beds of horse-manure; and the Chinese and the Egyptians
have hatched them for ages in ovens."

"But this is by hot water and
lamps," said Grandma.

"Yes," said August, "I never saw an incubator
before I made this; but, Grandma, I had read of them made on the same
principle."

"At any rate," said Grandma, "I think that you deserve
great credit for patience and ingenuity."

By evening thirty chickens
were hatched from the thirty-six eggs. The other six gave no signs
of life. By Grandma's advice they were left in the incubator "to give
them a chance," but they never hatched.

The next morning all the
members of the family took the chickens down-stairs, even Robbie,
who took two in a basket, and deposited them in their new home.

Then
their food was prepared, the yolks of hard-boiled eggs crumbled up
fine, bread crumbs, milk, and a little fine cracked corn. After a
few days they could be fed almost entirely upon the cracked corn. In this it resembles
"Hudibras;" and both are quoted by Dryden himself as examples of the Varronian satire. But
there was this pointed difference, that Butler's poem is burlesque, and Dryden's mock-heroic.
"Mac-Flecknoe" is, I rather believe, the first poem in the English language, in which the dignity
of a harmonised and lofty style is employed, not only to excite pleasure in itself, but to
increase, by contrast, the comic effect of the scenes which it narrates; the subject being
ludicrous, while the verse is noble. Their journeys extend over the whole breadth of the United
States. They appear here in the latter part of October, and are first seen among the decaying
leaves near the borders of the woods, in flocks of about thirty.

If molested, they at once fly to the trees. As the weather becomes colder they approach nearer
the farm-houses and towns.

They are real weather prophets. When a storm is near at hand they gather together in large flocks,
and work very, very diligently in search of food,-- doubtless making provision for the time of
wind and storm when they can get none.

But it is after the snow-storms, when the ground is white with the downy flakes, that the Snow-birds
become the most friendly. How pleasant it is then to see them gather about the house, and around
the barn and out-houses, to search for edibles. Not only then do they appear in the country-places,
but even in the crowded city their little forms may be seen in multitudes, on the snowy streets
and in the windows.

They build their nests near the ground, often on a stump or log, or in a deep thicket, in such
a manner as to be shielded from the wind and storms. They construct their homes from bits of
fine grasses and leaves, and it is interesting to observe what wonderful
architects they are.

The Snow-birds, I am sorry to say, though friendly with us are not,
like the little Chickadees, peaceful among themselves.

They are often very quarrelsome, and will peck at each other in a way that little birds should
not. Perhaps they "make up" with one another and are good friends
again. I hope so.

The Snow-birds are very nimble on the ground, and, I guess, can eat faster and more for their
size than any other winter bird. It is a very funny sight to see them scratch away the snow with
their tiny feet to get their food, which, when insects and eggs are not to be had, is the seeds
of many kinds of weeds that still rise above the snow, and along
the border of the roads.

Sometimes, perhaps, you have come upon a dead Snow-bird in the morning following a cold night,
and perhaps have wondered if the poor little creature froze to death, and why he did not die at
home. But the Snow-birds are sometimes affected with a dizziness or faintness which makes them
fall from the limbs, or during their flight. What makes them dizzy or faint, we do not know;
not from hanging head downwards like the little Chickadees, surely. But they often, alas! come
to their death through this affection.

The snow-birds have a peculiar cry of "Chuck! chuck!"-- and another of "Chit, chit-a-sit!" which
however, they seldom utter except when taking flight. They stay with us until about the 29th
of April, when they wing away to the north or to the higher ranges
of our mountains.

Somewhat similar to the Snow-birds are the Snow Buntings or "White Snow-birds." They appear every
winter in large flocks, often of many thousands. They are sometimes called "bad weather birds,"
from the fact of their moving to the northward during fine weather and to the southward on the
advent of deep snow-storms. They are much shyer than either the Chickadees
or Snow-birds; but they are often seen on the roadsides and in the
lanes searching for the seeds of weeds that grow there. On the sea-shore,
which they greatly frequent, they live on small shellfish. It is curious
that the greater the snow and the colder the weather of winter, the
whiter do the Snow-Buntings appear.

They are very swift flyers, and
often in flocks of great numbers seem to be a cloud of snow-flakes
driven before a storm. They make their nests in the fissures of the
rocks, forming from grass, and feathers, and the down of the Arctic
fox, a very cosey home. They frequent the roads and lanes in the vicinity
of Boston, and their white forms and busy beaks can be seen throughout
the winter season.

They have peculiar notes like a clear whistle,
and a "chirr, chirr!" which they utter when flying.

A very fine little
bird quite common in this State in the winter season, is the Brown
Creeper, with its showy brown and white coat. Among other evident tokens that no measures were hence-forward to be kept
between the king and Monmouth, the representation of "The Duke of Guise" was at length authorised.

The two companies of players, after a long and expensive warfare, had now united their forces;
on which occasion Dryden furnished them with a prologue, full of violent Tory principles. By
this united company "The Duke of Guise" was performed on the 30th December 1682. It was printed
with a dedication to Hyde, Earl of Rochester, subscribed by both authors, but evidently the
work of Dryden. It is written in a tone of defiance to the Whig authors, who had assailed the
dedicators, it alleges, "like footpads in the dark," though their blows had done little harm,
and the objects of their malice yet lived to vindicate their loyalty in open day. They would
fly upon August, and, if they could get there, into the dish, which
they more than once overturned.

When
their plumage was well out they were handsome fowls. August built a large coop and out-door yard for
them, but they were not often confined in it, for the children loved to have them about with
them, and watched them as carefully as a hen mother could have done; and great was the joy
of Katie and Robbie as they ran to their mother to report the first
crowing of the little cockerels.

When
last I saw them they were well grown. The pullets, August proudly
informed me, were laying.

It
was the glorious Fourth. Torpedoes were the order of the day, and Katie and Robbie were amusing themselves
by throwing the snappers in all directions, and seeing their feathered pets run to eat what
they could never find. The other fowls, disturbed by the noise of the day, preferred to keep hidden away
in their houses, but these liked to keep about with the children
and see the fun.

August began his experiments when some of my young readers were quite little children. He has continued
them through several seasons, until now, after much study and patient industry, he has enlarged
and greatly improved his incubator. He has changed its form entirely, and has attached an electric
apparatus which regulates the heat, and avoids all danger from smoke. He has applied for a
patent, and has made arrangements for taking care of a large number of chickens as early as
February, being still greatly interested in this successful "'speriment."-----
[A] Fahrenheit and Réaumur were both inventors of thermometers.

Those commonly in use are Fahrenheit's. THE BIRDS OF WINTER.

It seems strange that any birds should stay with us during the cold
and frost when there is so much food which they like in the southern
part of our country.

Men
of science wonder why they do remain here, and are unable to account
for it.

Perhaps it is because it is the true home of these birds which remain, and they prefer to search
long and diligently for their scanty food, and bear the cold and the winds and the frost, rather
than leave it. This is as we should do, and doubtless the birds that stay through the winter
love their homes just as much-- as a bird possibly can. Of course everybody,-- that is, everybody
except the tiniest, wee baby, has seen the winter birds, some of them; at least the Chickadees,
the Snow-birds, and Downy Woodpeckers, and Bluejays and Shore larks. But are you acquainted with
the little fellows?

Do you know where and how they live, and what they eat, and of their habits and songs? A great
favorite of mine is the Chickadee, with his black cap and white shirt bosom. This active little gentleman
is the most social and friendly of them all. If out in the country, this little fellow in
company with his mates will twitter gaily at sight of you, every
now and then looking curiously at you as if asking, "And who are you,
sir?" or "Who are you, ma'am?" and pecking his way gradually nearer
and nearer will inspect you in the quaintest and merriest way.

Afraid! O no, not they. Mr. Samuels, a writer about birds, says that
he once had an inquisitive little Chickadee perch on the end of his
boot and sit there watching him inquiringly. They have even been known
to feed from the open hand. If you will daily scatter some crumbs for
them before the door, or upon the window-sill, you will learn for yourselves
how neighborly they are. [III.]
of France, which certainly our author did not propose to carry farther than their common point
of situation; and secondly, the labour with which he disavows what he unquestionably did intend,--a
parallel between the rebellious conduct of Monmouth and of Guise. A round hole in a tree or post
is all you will see from a distance; but if you can climb,-- for their holes are usually more
than six feet from the ground,-- you may look down into the deep
home itself.

How much patience and perseverance they must have to dig, bit by bit, such straight deep nests.
These holes are seldom lined with any thing, but are generally enlarged at the bottom so as
to give the family more "elbow room."

The one we know best in winter is the Downy Woodpecker, the prettiest and smallest of the tribe.
It builds its nest in various trees, preferring the apple-tree, poplar and birches. Its hole
is smaller than those of other woodpeckers because, I suppose, the bird itself is so much smaller
that he can do with less room.

The Downy Woodpeckers are very sociable; and although they themselves are not gregarious, you may
often see them followed by Chickadees, Creepers, Nuthatches and Wrens, whose company they appear
to be pleased with.

They are not shy of man, but, unlike most of their tribe, haunt roadsides, orchards, and grounds
about houses and out-buildings, which they prefer to the deep forests. They are generally seen in pairs,
and are very active little birdies. In searching for food, insects and eggs, they move from
tree to tree and thus pass the day. They rarely alight on the ground. Their ordinary cry is
a "Chick, chick," repeated rapidly.

A somewhat larger Woodpecker, called the Hairy Woodpecker, is also an inhabitant of our woods
in winter and much like the Downy Woodpecker in habits.

These are
the principal and most common of our winter birds. There are some
others sometimes seen, such as the Tree-Sparrow, Blue-Jay and Golden
Crowned Wren, but space forbids an account of their ways and songs.
I hope what I have told you of the winter birds will induce you to
study and observe more closely their almost human ways.

SOMETHING
ABOUT LIGHT-HOUSES.

You have all heard of the Seven Wonders of the
World; did you know that two of these wonders were veritable Light-houses?

About
300 B. C., Cheres, the disciple of Lysippus, cast the famous brazen
Colossus of Rhodes, a statue of the Sun God Apollo, and erected it
at the entrance of the harbor where it was used as a Light-house,
the flames which crowned the head of the Sun God by night serving
to guide wandering barks into his Rhodian waters. The dedication is addressed to the Duke of
Ormond, the Barzillai of "Absalom and Achitophel," whom Charles, after a long train of cold
and determined neglect, had in emergency recalled to his favour and his councils. The first
volume of Plutarch's Lives, with Dryden's Life of the author, appeared in 1683.

