In the meantime the Archduke Philip happened to fall into Henry’s hands (Jan., 1506). Whilst
crossing the sea to claim the kingdom of Castile in right of his wife, he was driven by stress
of weather into Weymouth. Henry was too shrewd a politician not to make the most of so lucky
an event, and detained him in a species of honourable captivity, until Philip had promised
him the hand of his sister Margaret with a large dower. Is it needed for the settlement of a project that had been meditating for a short time this
part. I wanted as a doctor certifies that without risk of life was not possible the transfer
of the patient in the hospital de Paula, the new madhouse. This first place. Second, support was
also intended to serve as a conduit through which Josefa sign, or else the granddaughter received
a monthly pension of twenty-five dollars ½ indefinitely.

Stimulated the greed of Montes de Oca with a splendid gift, it was difficult to dispatch certification,
or accept the assignment allowance. This was a way by Don Candido, faithful to the thief, was that
it would be perhaps more risky test the third-party discretion in that case.

So cut, I thought Gamboa, direct all future relationship with the three accomplices in his
grave guilt, without fail to the commitments they made. But there was the tail to be skinned. How
Cecilia Valdés rid of the bonds that held out his son Leonardo? They loved each other with
delirium, were often not enough to separate her scolding grandmother, or threats to it, by Dona
Rosa, Don Candido. There was therefore forced to the gallant ship and throw the country, or
to kidnap the woman and not to find it anywhere or communicate with him. The first thing that
had not even thinking about it: Dona Rosa is opposed to all his strength. Secondly, it was highly
risky and I was surrounded by difficulties almost insurmountable. Such were the thoughts that
most concerned the spirit of Don Candido and made him suffer the tortures of hell by the time
we historian.

Now: of course desirable to proceed to the kidnapping of the girl? Convenient, but it was not
urgently needed at the time, for two main reasons, namely because they lived grandmother,
but sickly and decadent, and because in two weeks would leave the
family spend Easter at the ingenuity of a barrel, and it was agreed
that Leonardo was in the game.

Indeed, a week before the Mariel despatched the schooner Winner: your employer Francisco Sierra
with the victuals, preserves and wines that were not for love or money those parts, and with the
servants of the particular service of Gamboa's family, including
Ted and Dolores.

They should also be joining Miss Ilincheta with his aunt Juana for which Leonardo and Meneses Diego
would escort them from Alquízar.
The reason for the next meeting of the two families in La Tinaja
was intended witness the opening of a steam engine to aid in the grinding
of the cane honey rather than the power of blood with which there
had been operating until the early heavy mill. The streets were lined with other members of the
companies bearing torches, the lowest craft occupying the first place. Next after the freemen
of the city came the "strangers"—Easterlings, Frenchmen, Spaniards, Venetians, Genoese, Florentines
and "Lukeners"—on horseback and on foot, also bearing torches.(1022) These took up their position
in Gracechurch Street. Cornhill was occupied by the lower crafts, ordered in such a way that
"the most worshipful crafts" stood next unto "Paules." A similar order was preserved the next
day, when the corpse was removed from Saint Paul’s to Westminster. The lowest crafts were placed
nearest to the Cathedral, and the most worshipful next to Temple Bar, where the civic escort
terminated. The mayor and aldermen proceeded to Westminster by water, to attend the "masse
and offering." The mayor, with his mace in his hand, made his offering next after the Lord
Chamberlain; those aldermen who had passed the chair(1023) offered next after the Knights of
the Garter, and before all "knights for the body"; whilst the aldermen who had not yet served
as mayor made their offering after the knights.(1024)

When King Henry VIII was about to make an expedition to France in 1544, the Court of Aldermen
gave notice to the Bishop of London that the obit of Henry VII would be kept on Friday, the
16th May, on which day there would be a general procession, and that the observance would be
continued until the king departed out of the realm, and then on every Friday and Wednesday
until his return.(1025)

CHAPTER XIII.

(M552)

One of the first acts of the new king was to grant Letters Patent absolving the City of all
trespasses committed before the date of his accession,(1026) and to offer restitution to all
who had suffered at the hands of Empson and Dudley or their agents. Empson and Dudley were
themselves committed to the Tower and afterwards executed. In the meantime an enquiry was opened
in the city as to recent proceedings against Capel and others.

It was found that six men, whose names were John Derby, alias Wright, a bowyer, Richard Smyth,
a carpenter, William Sympson, a fuller, Henry Stokton, a fishmonger, Thomas Yong, a saddler,
and Robert Jakes, a shearman—all of whom had more than once been convicted of perjury, and
on that account been struck off inquests—had contrived to get themselves replaced on the panel,
and had been the chief movers in the recent actions against the late mayor and other officers
of the city. 

A traveler passing through a lonely poet hears the ringing of a bell, which detract from the
meditations in which he was enthralled. In its soul is home to the faith, but it is inaccessible
to the religious inspiration. That sound pious in the heart of the desert changes Suddenly
the disposition of his mind, and takes you to savor in a serious and severe melancholy. They soon
discover the silent mansion where they seek asylum, far in the world, innocence and repentance.
Arrives, dismount, llama, with a mixture of respect and curiosity, and stepping on the threshold
of the monastery is a venerable old man, his face serene, cuts and gentle treatment. The traveler
is presented with affectionate warmth, is driven to the church, the cloisters, at the library,
wherever there is something to admire or notice. The old monk did not turn from his hand, holding
the conversation with discernment and good taste, be lenient with the views of the new-comer,
as he lends can please you, and not separated from him, but when the hour of meeting its duties.
The traveler's heart is gently shaken, the silence interrupted only by the singing of psalms,
the crowd of religious objects that inspire contemplation and piety, together with the estimable
qualities and to the kindness and condescension of the old cenobite Traveler's heart inspire
feelings of religion, of admiration and gratitude, that Mrs. vividly his soul. Bidding farewell to
the venerable host, thoughtfully away, taking those memories will not forget in a long time. If
such a situation in spirit our poet to place him in their relationships interlayer reflections
on the trip religious institutes, what do you think they say? Is clear. For him, the institution
will at the monastery and the monastery will be embodied in the monk whose memory fascinates
him. Count it with an eloquent piece for religious institutes to be against philosophers who
condemn an ​​imprecation against revolutions which destroy them, tears of sorrow upon the ruins
and tombs.

But woe to the monastery, and all monastic institutions, if the traveler
had been found with a host of bad mood, dry and bland conversation,
fond little beauties literary and artistic works, and nothing good
humor to accompany curious!

In the eyes of the poet, the monk would have been the personification of unpleasant high school, and
in punishment of bad reception, had been convicted of this type of life, and accused of bringing
down the spirit, strengthen the heart, separate treatment of men, be rough and rude manners,
and bring countless ills without producing any good. And yet, the reality of the cases would have remained
the same in either case, mediating only happened that would grant the visitor reception more or less
rosy.

§ XI.

Need to be fixed ideas.

The foregoing considerations show the need to have fixed ideas and opinions formed on core subjects,
and when this is not possible, how much it matters to abstain to improvise, leaving it to sudden inspirations.
It has been said that the big thoughts born of the heart, and could have added, to the heart are
born too large errors. If the experiment fails to do so palpable, the reason would suffice to prove
it. The heart does not think or judge, but that does not feel, but the sentiment is a powerful
lever that moves the soul and deployed and multiplies their faculties. When understanding is
the path of truth and good, noble and pure feelings to help give strength and brio, but the feelings
ignoble, or depraved, but may lose the right understanding. Even feelings good, if the stress
is too much, they can lead to errors deplorable.

§ XII.

Duties of oratory, poetry, and fine arts.

Born here very serious considerations about the proper use of oratory, and in general all the arts
that come to the understanding or through the heart, or at least worth of him as a powerful auxiliary.
Painting, sculpture, music, poetry, literature in all its parts, are very severe duties, which all too
often forgotten. The truth and virtue, here are the two objects to which should be addressed:
the truth for understanding virtue to the heart, behold what you
have to provide the man through the impressions to captivate you.

In deviating from this white, limited to the simple production of pleasure, are sterile for the
good and fertile for evil.

The artist intends only to flatter the passions, corrupting morals, is a man that abuses and
neglects his talents sublime mission entrusted by the Creator, to endow privileged powers that ensure
the ascendancy over their fellows, the speaker using the trappings of diction, and its ability
to stir the emotions and enchant fantasy, seeks to adopt erroneous opinions, is a true no less
guilty impostor that he employs means, perhaps most disgusting, but much less dangerous. It
is not lawful when it is unlawful to persuade convince, when the conviction is a deception,
persuasion is perfidy.

This doctrine is severe, but sure the dictates of reason can not be less severe, when adjusted to the
requirements of the eternal law which is severe also because it is just and immutable.

Infer from the above, that writers or speakers endowed with great qualities to interest and charm,
are a public calamity, when used in defense of the error. What mind the shine, if only serves
to impress and losing? Modern nations have forgotten these truths, to revive among them the
popular eloquence that much damage to the ancient republics, in deliberative assemblies where
businesses are heard high state where failure of the great interests of society, not another voice
should resonate that of a clear reason, brainy, austere. The truth is the same, the reality of
things move, because he has aroused the enthusiasm of the assembly and spectators, and has been
deciding vote with the accents of a fiery speaker. Is it not true that it is based, is useful
or not what is proposed, to behold all that has to meet, the rest is lost miserably, is to forget
the end of deliberation, is to play with the big interests of society
are sacrificed to the childish display itch oratorical skills, to
the petty starting vanity applause.

We have already noted that all meetings, and especially in the beginning of the revolution,
suffer from a spirit of invasion, and are distinguished by their unwise decisions. The session
perhaps begins with happy auspices, but then takes a dangerous bias, the mood are touched,
the mind is clouded, the exaltation point rises, reaches a frenzy scratch, and a reunion of
men who individually would have been reasonable, they become a mob of senseless and crazy. The reason
is obvious: the impression of the moment is alive, outweighs Above all, it dominates all the natural
sympathy man, spreads like electricity, and running picks up speed
and strength, what at first was a spark, is a few moments a terrible
conflagration.

Over time, some disappointments and train warning to both nations, making go blunted the sensibility,
and not so dangerous fascination Speaking: sad choice for evil, the repetition of the damage. Whatever,
it is not possible to change the heart men, will be worthy of glory and renown speakers clarified
that employ in defense of truth and justice the same weapons that
others use in support of error and crime.

Next to Providence usually placed poison antidote.

§ XIII.

Illusion caused by the thoughts clothed images.

In danger of missing more than that it brings the motion of the affections, there is another
perhaps less repaired, and yet is of great importance, what is the thoughts of coated with a bright
image.

Words can not express the effect that this device produces, such thinking no more than superficial,
deep passes, thanks to his disguise serious and philosophical, such other which submitted nude was
a vulgarity, appearing to hide its origin noble trappings commoner, and enunciated a proposition
that would show dry bulk is inaccurate or false, or perhaps a solemn nonsense, is counted among
the truths that do not allow doubt if covered with artful veil walks.

He said that damage to this point are of great importance, because
they often suffer from Authors such profound defect and judgmental,
and inasmuch as his words are heard with much more respect and deference,
the stronger is the tone of conviction with which expressed, is that
the unwary reader receives as incontrovertible axiom, or maximum of
eternal truth sometimes what is but a dream of a thinker, or a loop
lying on purpose to the good faith of the short notice [19].

CHAPTER XX.

PHILOSOPHY OF HISTORY.

§ I.

What is the philosophy of history.

Difficulty of acquiring it.

No deal here of history under the critical, but only under the philosopher. The on the simple investigation
of the facts is explained in ch. XI.

What is the most apropos to understand the spirit of the age, training ideas clear and precise about
your character, enter the causes of events, and point to each its own results? This amounts
to asking which method is suitable for acquire the true philosophy of history.

Is the choice of good authors? But what are the good guys? Who assures us that has guided the
passion? Who puts up security for impartiality?

How many are the made history as it takes to teach the philosophy that it deserves? Battles, negotiations,
intrigues, lives and deaths of princes, changes of dynasties, political forms, this is reduced
most of the stories, nothing that we paint the individual with their ideas, feelings, needs,
tastes, whims, habits; that causes us to be present at the intimate life of families and villages,
nothing in the study of history make us understand the progress of
humanity.

Always in politics ie, on the surface, always in large, noisy, never
in the bowels of society, in the nature of things, in those events
that remote and low appearance, they are still of great importance.

It is now known as the void, and fill works. History is not written without any attempt to philosophize
about it. This in itself is very good, has another drawback, which is that instead of the true
philosophy of history is often tip us philosophy of the historian. You better not philosophizing
philosophizing that bad, if wanting to deepen history of disorder,
would be preferable that I followed the system of names and dates.

§ II.

Indicated a means to advance the philosophy of history.

Need is to read the stories, and in the absence of other, should one stick to those that exist, without
But I am inclined to this study is not sufficient to learn the philosophy of history. But to
no other purpose, and done with discernment, is one positive effect: study Instant monuments of the
time. I say immediately, that is, they should not stick What we said about them the historian,
but to see them with your own eyes.

But this work, I say, is very heavy, so many impossible, difficult
for everyone.

No deny the validity of this observation, but argue that in many
cases, the method I propose saves time and fatigue.

The sight of a building, reading a document, a fact, a apparently
insignificant word that has not repaired the historian, tells us much
more and more clear and more true and accurate, that all their stories.

A

historian aims to portray the simplicity of the patriarchal customs, collects abundant news about
the earliest times, and exhausts the wealth of his erudition, philosophy and eloquence, to make
me understand what those times and those were men, and offer what is called a complete description.
Although as I said, I find another means easier, which is present at the scenes where I presented
in that movement and life treatment known. I open the writers of those times that are neither in such
numbers, not so bulky and there I find portraits faithful who teach and delight. The Bible
and Homer anything let me desired.

§ III.

Application to the history of the human spirit.

Human intelligence has its history, as do external events, history both more precious, the most
intimate portrait us of man and what he has on powerful influence. They are found at every
step descriptions of schools, and the nature and trend of thought in this or that time, meaning that
many historians of understanding; but if you want to know something more than four are usually
always inaccurate, and often totally false, it must apply the rule set: read authors of the period you
want known. And do not think it is absolutely necessary to mix them all, and thus this method
becomes impractical for the greatest number of readers, a single page of a writer We painted the
living but his spirit and his time might tell us that the more detailed historians.

§ IV.

Example from the faces, which clarifies what was said on how to advance the philosophy history.

If
the reader is happy with what they tell others, and consideration is not itself achieved perhaps
a historical knowledge, but not intuitive: you know what men are and things, but do not see,
give reason of the thing, but will not be able to paint. A comparison clarify my thinking. Suppose
I am talking about a major sugeto I can not deal or see, and I curious to know something of his
figure and manners, I ask those who know him personally. I tell you, for example, which is more
than medium height, space and high forehead, black hair fallen in
some disorder, large eyes, lively and penetrating eyes, pale, animated
and expressive features, which often appears with his lips the smile
of kindness, and occasionally announcing some evil, that his word
is measured and serious, but with the heat of the conversation is
fast, incisive and even spirited, and so I will offer physical and
moral set to give me more idea about possible, and if I assume that
these and other news are accurate, I have been described in the original
faithfully, I have a idea of ​​what the caller is my curiosity, and
I will give account of whom as I was eager to know.

But is this enough to form a comprehensive concept the same, so I present to the imagination
as it is in itself? Certainly not. Do you wish a test? Suppose he has heard that the relationship
is a portrait artist of great merit; Will it be able to portray to the person described? I try,
and completed the work, introduce yourself suddenly the original, it is certain that not known
by the copy.

We will all experience for ourselves the truth: one hundred and one hundred times have we heard
explain the appearance of a person, to our way we have formed in the mind a figure in which we
have sought to possess the qualities hearsay, as well, when it occurs the person, we find much difference
that we must touch much work, if not destroy completely.

And there are things that it is impossible to form clear and accurate without them before, and
there in large numbers, and extremely delicate, subtle separately and which together constitute what
we call the face. How explicaréis difference of two very similar people? No other than seeing them: they
appear at all, would know not to say what disagree, but there is something that leaves no mistake:
at the first look at what you perceive, without managing it is.

Behold, all my thoughts. In the critical works we offer extensive and perhaps accurate descriptions
of the state of understanding in this or that era, and in spite of everything we do not know
Moreover, if we submit pieces of writers of different times, it would be correct to classify which
should, we would fatigue to remember the qualities of each other, but this does not would avoid
falling into gross blunders in absurd anachronisms. With much less gracefully got out of work
effort if we read the authors in question: maybe disertaríamos not with so much erudition
and critical apparatus, but we judge with much more success. "The turn of thought, shall we say,
style, language, reveal a writer of such period; this piece is apocryphal, here we discover the
hand of such other time, "and so went about sorting without fear
of making mistakes, for ourselves but we could not understand either
of those as we know no sight of those characters.

If then we say, "and this quality, how is that not here?

Why this one is at most? ?...» why "is impossible," perhaps we would
reply, "to satisfy all scruples V.; what I can say is that the characters
I have listed here the well-known; and I can not be wrong about the
features of his face, because I have seen many times.

"

CHAPTER XXI.

RELIGION.

§ I.

Fool running of the indifferent in matters of religion.

Improper outside this place, a treatise on religion, but it will be some thoughts to focus thinking on
this important matter. Of them is that the indifferent thinkers or believers are terrible.

Life
is short, death certain: In a few years, the man who enjoys health more robust and vigorous, will
have fallen into the pit, and know from experience what is true in what religion says about
the fate of the afterlife. If I do not think, my disbelief, my doubts, my invective, my satire,
my indifference, my foolish pride, not destroy the reality of the facts: there is another world
where good book awards, and punishments to bad, there certainly will not because he pleases me the
denial, and also this whimsical refusal will not improve the fate
which, according to eternal laws have to fit me.

When sound last hour, it is necessary to die, and meet with nothing or with eternity. This business
is exclusively mine, as mine, as if I existed alone in the world: no one dies for me; will anyone
in my place in the afterlife, depriving me of the good, or getting rid of evil. These considerations
shown me quite clearly, the high importance of religion, the need I have to know what is truth in it,
and if I say, 'whatever it is of religion, I do not think about it,
"speak as the most foolish of men.

A traveler finds in its wake a mighty river, will be crossed, ignored if some danger in this
or that ford, and is hearing that many who are like him to the shore, ponder the depth of water
in certain places, and the inability to save the foolhardy dared to so many. The fool says:
"What I care about these issues?" and thrown into the river without looking where. Behold
the indifferent in matters of religion.

§ II.

The indifferent and the human race.

Humanity has dealt and is dealing with the religion, the legislators have regarded as the object
of the highest importance, the wise have taken over the area of deeper meditations, the monuments,
the codes, the writings of times that we have preceded package show this fact, the experience
looks to confirm, is has run and played greatly on religion, the libraries are crowded works
related to it, and even in our days the press is giving birth in other very limited number grown
up: when it comes indifferent and says "this is not worth to be examined; I judge without
hearing, these wise they're all fools, fools these legislators, the humanity is but a miserable
deluded, all sadly lost time on issues nothing important, "Is not that worthy of humanity, and
these sages, and those legislators, rise up against him, throw the blot on his forehead he has
thrown them, and tell turn: "Who are you to insult us as well, so you despise the most intimate feelings
the heart, and all the traditions of mankind? "So frivolous declare that in all the roundness of
the earth are said to be serious and important? Who are you?

Have you discovered the secret fortune not to die? miserable lot
of dust, should forget that soon will scatter the wind?

Weak creature, "perhaps with media account to change your fate in
this region you do not know, the happiness or misery are they for
you indifferent?

If there is such a judge, who do not want to take care, do you expect will be satisfied if the call
to view answer: 'What do I care to your commands, or your very existence? "Before unleashing your
tongue with such foolish speeches, take a look at yourself, think of this weak organization that
the slightest incident can upset, and very short time must be sufficient
to consume; and then sit on a grave, recógete and meditate.

§ III.

Transit indifference to the exam. Existence of God.

Curing the good thinker of pretending to indifference, deeply convinced that religion is the
matter of highest importance, it should go further and devise as follows: Is it likely that all
religions are no more than an accumulation of errors, and that the
doctrine the rejection of all true?

The first thing to state or imply religions is the existence of God.
Does God Exist? Is there any Creator of the universe? Raise your eyes
to the sky, the face of tiéndelos the earth, look what you yourself
are, and seeing everywhere grandeur and order, say, if you dare: 'the
one who has done perhaps the world, the case I have done to me, the
building is admirable, but there is no architect, the mechanism is
amazing, but no architect, the order exists without computer, without
wisdom to devise the plan, without being able to execute him. "This
reasoning that the most insignificant case of artifacts, would be
negligible and even contrary to common sense, can it be applied to
the universe? What is foolish with respect to the small, Is it prudent
to relation to big?

§ IV.

It is possible that all religions are
true. "At
the city gates," wrote an eye-witness, "one sees nothing but gibbets and the quarters of these
wretches"—the wretches who had been hanged for complicity in the late disturbance—"so that
it is horrible to pass near them."(1075) The "sweating sickness," which had again made its
appearance in 1516, and had never really quitted the city (except for a few weeks in winter),
now raged more violently than ever, accompanied by measles and small-pox. The king ordered
all inhabitants of infected houses to keep indoors and hang out wisps of straw, and when compelled
to walk abroad to carry white rods.(1076) This order, however, was badly received in the city
and gave rise to much murmuring and dissatisfaction.(1077) The civic authorities did what they
could to mitigate the evil by driving out beggars and vagabonds, and removing slaughter-houses
outside the city walls,(1078) as well as by administering relief to the poorer classes by the
distribution of tokens or licences to solicit alms. These tokens consisted of round "beedes"
of white tin, bearing the City’s arms in the centre, to be worn on the right shoulder.(1079)
In the midst of so much real suffering, there were not wanting those who took advantage of
the charitable feeling which the crisis called forth and were not ashamed to gain a livelihood
by simulating illness. Such a one was Miles Rose, who on the 11th March, 1518, openly confessed
before the Court of Aldermen that he had frequently dissembled the sickness of the "fallyng
evyle" (or epilepsy) in divers parish churches in the city, on which occasions "jemewes" of
silver, called cramp rings, would as often as not be placed on his fingers by charitable passers-by,
with which he would quickly make off, pocketing at the same time many a twopence which had
been bestowed upon him.(1080)

(M572)

The city could scarcely have recovered its wonted appearance after the ravages of the pestilence
before its streets were enlivened with one of those magnificent displays for which London became
justly famous, the occasion being an embassy from the French king sent to negotiate a marriage
treaty between Henry’s daughter Mary, a child but two years of age, and the still younger Dauphin
of France. The only thing I set out
to write such stories is distracted or have fun in almost forced my retirement old age and
my infirmities condemn me.

I will not deny me that I had fun writing stories, but I keep it to infer and hence can be sure
that he is also fun to read. The stories, however, aspire not only to entertain. If you are
not amused, criticism can not and should go beyond to the point of calling them annoying, and
instead, if anything fun or entertaining, its purpose and aims are met. They are neither do I want
to be but a mere hobby work, when read with, without the slightest offense against God or neighbor,
to achieve the unemployed entertainment for several hours. Those who want to learn something,
have plenty of books to go. To find religion read the names of Christ, to know moral, read the Guide
sinners and to know philosophy, which is publishing the Father Urraburu
in many and very thick volumes.

This is not intended nor librejo deeply touch the hearts of readers. The muse has inspired me (assuming
also that there has been muse) has not been sad or tragic, but joyful and happy, as suited to console
of my real punishment and not to aggravate weight with other penalties imaginary. Moreover,
I believe and have always believed that all production artistic or literary means good humor
and not despondency and distress. Even when a poet or a novelist by author events takes more
pitiful, it is important that the shame and Despite have dissipated almost completely, so that
the matter was in the subject and that plagued the subject, get out
of it, and he calmly contemplate and be the object or the first material
with which he composes or constructs his work, carving and polishing.

Everyone has their way of doing things. I do not have to make rules and I argue about this.
I will just say I do not understand that overcome with deep grief begins to sing or write about
the pain overwhelms him. The death of a loved one, the misfortunes of country, the tremendous
struggle and the terrible hardships that often afflict the human race All this, when it comes
to become subject to it when our literary creations and unless it hurts, because if we hurt,
we would not write, but would try to remedy the practical means bad,
or you cry, report and ineffably and without literature, if not acertásemos
to address it. Men-at-arms, well harnessed and apparelled,
were to keep certain streets, whilst the aldermen and their constables were to keep watch and
ward in their best array of harness. The ambassadors, who were to be lodged in Cornhill, were
to be escorted home at night by the aldermen with torches, and to await their commands. There
was one other, perhaps not unnecessary, direction to be followed, which was to the effect that
if by any chance the strangers should be overcome by the hospitality of the city, or, in the
words of the record—"yf eny oversyght be wt moche drynke of the strangers"—the citizens were
to "lett theym alone and no Englishemen to medyle wt theym."

(M574) (M575)

The legate landed at Deal on the 23rd July, and by slow stages was conducted with every mark
of respect to London. His passage through the city was associated with an episode of a decidedly
comic character if we are to believe the chronicler. A story is told(1085) that the night before
Campeggio entered London, Wolsey sent him twelve mules with (empty) coffers, in order to give
a semblance of wealth to the legate and his retinue. In Cheapside one of the mules turned restive
and upset the chests, out of which tumbled old hose, shoes, bread, meat, and eggs, with "muche
vile baggage," at which the street boys cried "See, see my lord legate’s treasure!" The story,
however, is on good authority deemed more malicious than probable.

(M576)

In January, 1519, the Emperor Maximilian died and left the imperial crown to be contested for
by the kings of France and Spain. The authority of writers had risen higher than was proper; and it was necessary impetus
as the philosophy of Descartes to topple the idols. The respect due to the great men not to
scratch in worship, or the consideration to its views degenerate into blind submission. As great
men, they are still men, and manifest thus errors, omissions and defects in their work. Summi enim
sunt, homines tamen, he said Quintilian. And St. Augustine confesses that ascribes infallibility
to the sacred books; but as to the works of men, by scratching the highest virtue and wisdom
why are not more obliged to take as true all that they have said or written.

[15] p. 142 .-- I shall briefly summarize the most useful to say on the dialectical perception,
judging, reasoning, term, proposition and argument.

According to the argument, the perception is the knowledge of the thing, no affirmation or denial;
the trial is the affirmation or denial, the reason is the act of
understanding what to infer something else.

I think the virtue without affirming or denying anything about it,
I have a perception.

Inwardly affirm that virtue is laudable, I am a trial.

From this I infer that to deserve the real praise must be virtuous, that is one reason.

The interior view of perception, called idea.

The term or word is the expression of the thing perceived.

The word America does not express idea of ​​the new continent, but the same continent. It is
true that the term did not exist Without the idea, and this serves as the hub to link the
word with the thing; but it is less, that when we express America, we understand the thing
itself, not the idea. So say America is a beautiful country and it is clear that this does not affirm
the idea.

When I think of metal, I know that being metal is common to many things that otherwise are different,
such as silver, gold, lead etc.; to think brutes, I see that something to agree the camel, eagle,
snake, butterfly, and all the others, to know the living and feeling, or being animals. When I express
that it is desirable to many, saying, metal, animal, body, fair man, bad etc, the term is
commonly known.

The common term is generally taken one whose significance should be
to many, but as you can appropriate to be that many, or just as well
be considered together, or that apply to any of them separately, they
say that in the first case the term is collective, in the second distribution.

Academia is a collective common term, because it expresses the collection of academics, but not in
such a way that each of these can be called academia. Sage is distributive common term, because it
applies to many, so that any individual who possesses the wisdom, can be called wise.

Singular term is one that expresses a single individual as the Pyrenees, the Black Sea, Madrid, etc.

I
think the collective term should not count as a kind of common, for then the disadvantage is that
the division is not well made. We say the term is common or unique. The community is divided into
collective and distributive. For a division is required is well done that two members opposed
to one not in the other, which is verified if we take division expressed. Indeed, the word
nation is common, distributively, because it is to all nations, and
collectively because it applies to a reunion.

France is a common collective because it applies to a group of men, and unique because it expresses
a single nation, a true individual of the species of nations. Then the collective term should
not be among Commons, as opposed to the singular, as there are common collective nouns, and
there are unique.

The common term is divided into univocal, equivocal and similar. Is unequivocal that has for
many same meaning: as a man, animal, bodily. Misunderstanding is that it is different like
a lion, which expresses an animal and a blue sign.

Similar to what is in part identical and partly different, as healthy, which applies to food that preserves
health, medicine the reset, the man who has, pious, which applies to the person, to a book, to
an action, to an image. Master, says of the monarchs, and the phrase "the king my August love
you "is said of those slaves are said to those who have dependents or servants, it says the owner
of the room.

In many terms it is verified that involve a general idea, capable of various modifications;
and competent employees without distinction it gives rise to confusion
of ideas, and sterile disputes.

We use the words at every step king, monarch, sovereign, talk about what they mean, laying
our respective systems. Yet it is impossible not unwise grievously,
if each question does not look exactly what these words express.

Sovereign is the sultan, the ruler is the emperor of Russia, sovereign is the King of Prussia,
sovereign is the king of France, Sovereign is the Queen of England, and yet none of these cases,
expresses the same sovereignty.

The definition is the explanation of the thing. If you explain the essence is called essential, if
content to make it known, without penetrating in nature, his name is descriptive.

When the thing explained is the meaning of a word is called definition of the name: definitio
nominis. Definition should not confuse the name with its etymology: for The latter is the explanation
of the origin of the word often happens that the meaning is very different from usual etymology.
The etymology illustrates to discover the true meaning but not determined.

For example, the word bishop, episcopus, which served its etymology Greek means watchful, and in
its Latin acceptation, superintendent, indicates some so the pastoral duties, but far from
determining them in its true sense.

So this word meant among Latinos, the magistrate whose charge ran Care bread and other groceries.
Cicero writing to Atticus says, "I Vuit Pompejus enim esse Campania
HAEC quem tota, et ora maritima episcopum ad quem habent et negotii
summa delectus referatur.

"(Lib. 7. epist.)

The qualities of a good definition, are clearly and accurately. It will be clear, if not less
to understand who does not ignore the significance of words is accurate, if explained so the
thing defined, and is not add or take away.

The best rule to ensure the goodness of a definition is of course applies to the definite things,
and see if he understands them all, and to them alone.

The division is the distribution of a whole into its parts. According are these, take different
names; current calling when they exist in reality and potential when
there are more than possible.

The current is divided into metaphysics, physics, and comprehensive. Metaphysics, which distributes
all metaphysical parts, like the man in animal and rational physics, which distributes physical
parts, like the man in body and soul integral, which distributes
it in parts expressing amount, like the man in the head, feet, hands
etc. The potential is distributed by a whole in those parts which
we can conceive.

Thus, considering as a whole the abstract idea of ​​animal, can be divided into rational and irrational.
If the statement of the potential division belongs to the essence of the thing, is called essential,
if not accidental.

Will be essential if the animal divided into rational and irrational, is accidental if you
divided by their color or other similar qualities.

The good division must: 1. exhausting all, 2 º. not to award that does not have parts, 3 º. not include
a party to the other, 4 º. proceed with order, whether this is based on the nature of things,
or the generation or distribution of ideas.

If I say one thing from another, I am a trial, if the statement with words, I have a proposition.
Inwardly affirm that the earth is a spheroid, behold a trial, say or write: "the Earth is a
spheroid "behold the proposition.

In any trial there is relation of two ideas, but rather of the objects they represent, what same
will happen in the proposition, a term that expresses what we affirm or deny, called subject,
affirm or deny what is called predicate and the verb to be, I express or understatement is
always in the proposition, his name is union or intercourse, because it represents link the two ideas.
So in the example above, the land is the subject, the spheroid predicate, and copulation.

If there's assertion, the proposition is called so, whether there is denial denial. But it
should noted, that for a proposition is negative, not enough that the particle does not affect any
of its terms, but it must concern the verb. "The law does not require pay." "The law commanded
not to pay.

"The first is negative, the second affirmative sense is very different just move from place no.

The
propositions are divided into universal, undefined, and unique individuals, according to that
the subject is singular, indefinite, particular or universal. Every body is serious: it proposition
universal, owing to the word all. The man is unstable, the proposition is indefinite, not express
if they are all or some. Some axioms are misleading, the proposition is particularly because the
subject is restricted by the attached one. Gonzalo de Cordoba was famous captain, the proposition
is unique, by being the subject.

To be singular proposition, need not be proper name, just a word anyone who determine, as if
you say this coin is false.

Propositions concerning undefined, you may wonder if the subject is taken in respect universal
or particular, and give origin to this question two reasons: 1. not being that accompanied universal
or particular term, 2 º.

He notes that they use points to a sense and to other non-universal.

Indefinite proposition is equivalent to the universal in an absolute sense, if matters are belonging
to the essence of things, or any of its properties to be considered necessary, is equivalent
to moral universal, ie for most cases, if versa on qualities that demand it, and finally to
particular, on the advice of the thing that speaking.

The bodies are heavy, is equivalent to saying all bodies are heavy. The Germans are thoughtful,
not to say that all they are, but this is one of the characters of that nation.

The propositions are simple or compound. The simple are those which express the relationship a
single predicate to a single subject: like all the previous examples.

Compositae are those that contain more than one subject or predicate, and therefore explicitly
or implicitly comprise more than one proposition. With the classification and examples, will be
better understood what is a compound proposition. The dialectic generally falls into various
classes; will indicate the main.

Copulative proposition is expressed by the binding of two assertions
or denials. Gold and silver are metals.

Equivalent to these two together: gold is metal, and silver is metal. Gold is yellow, and
gold is ductile. For these propositions are true is needed what are its two parts: because the
affirmation is not limited to one but extends at two o'clock. In the same class can reduce these negative:
neither pride nor greed are virtues of temperance is not harmful or the soul or the body, etc..

Choice
is the proposition that two or more endpoints confirmed the existence
of one.

Human actions are either good or bad. At this time the plan will be executed or not will never
run. For the truth of these propositions, it needs no medium between the extreme limit. A role
or is it white or black: the proposition is false, because it can
be of other colors.

Is the conditional proposition which states a condition thing. If the wind blows weather will
be cold. If frosting is to spoil the fruit. For the truth of these propositions really needs
to bring the first part of the second, because this is what states,
but not the second brings the first, because that is dispensed.

Thus in the last example is said that the ice will the ruin of the fruits, but not if you are lost
the fruits have ice because they stated that the fruits can not be lost for other reasons.

Tell
little about the forms of argument. The dialectic of thousands have been distributed classes,
and pointing out numerous rules, all with great wit. I have already indicated what I thought
its usefulness. To do little or nothing to invent, to expose a lot, and generally getting
used to to them for a while, let the understanding clarity and precision
is not lost easily, and are experienced in all studies.

Syllogism is the argument in comparing two terms with a third, to infer the relationship they
have with each other. Simple is imperishable, the soul is simple, then is incorruptible. The
ends are soul and incorruptible, the average is simple.

Enthymeme is an abbreviated syllogism. The soul is simple, then it is incorruptible.

The dilemma is an argument based on a disjunctive proposition, that all ends hurt the opponent.
Or Christianity spread with miracles or without them, if by miracle, Christianity is true, if not
miracles, Christianity is true also, as it spread with a miracle that is broadcast without miracles.

[16]
p. 155 .-- I remembered to praise a doctrine of St. Thomas, and I can not fail to note I consider
it useful to read the works of that famous Doctor, to those who wish delivered to deeper studies
on the human spirit.

While it is true that is in including the style of the time, it is also true that more than once the
reader is surprised that in the midst of ignorance, it was still great in the thirteenth century,
had a man to so vast erudition gather in a spirit so pervasive, so profound, so accurate.

[17] p. 165 .-- The career of teaching should be a profession that will be finalized those who
embrace it.

Unfortunately it does not, and a task of such gravity and significance serves as the adventure,
and only while waiting for another better placement. The origin of evil is for teachers, but the
laws do not protect enough, not provide caregivers with the incentive and encouragement, that
man needs in everything. A single teacher good in some years can produce immense benefits to
a country: he works in a Chair modest, no more than a few young witness, but these kids are renewed
frequently, and to return a few years took the most important destinations of society.

[18] p. 171 .-- That man's inclination to follow the authority of another, gives rise to considerations
high on faith, on the principle of the authority of the Catholic
Church and the origin and nature of the missing sects have disturbed
and disturb the world.

As in other work deals extensively with this matter, I merely refer to what it said. See Protestantism
versus Catholicism in its relations with civilization Europe. Volume 1 º.

[19] p. 203 .-- I could write a great book with the title of literary
and artistic morality.

The issue is as useful as fruitful.

If this work the writer to execute a certain critical and delicate
and pure morality, could be of great benefit.

Abuse, every day more, that of most beautiful gifts of the soul is
being done to mislead and corrupt, would increase the importance of
such work.

  Hopefully this will wake indication of any sitting up to it.

  

  

  [20] p. 209 .-- The philosophy of history, but has made some progress
in recent times, however, is a science far behind.

  Less likely to undergo profound modifications another discipline
also new: the political economy.

  For Catholics are in this class Study the serious disadvantage that
a number of major works in this area have been written, have come
out of the hands of Protestants, or skeptics, so they are found full
of errors and mistakes with regard to the Church.

  It is true that lately in England, France and Germany, is remaking
history in a favorable direction to Catholicism, but this is a rich
mine of which has not been exploited more than a small part.

  Treasures abound, you just need work.

  

  [21] p. 227 .-- Figúranse some that religiousness is a sign of a fearful
spirit and ability poor, and instead of disbelief is an indication
of talent and magnanimity.

  I I argue that the story in hand one can show that at all times and
countries the most eminent men have been religious.

  

  

  END NOTES.

  

  CONTENTS

  

  OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINED IN THIS SITE.

  

  CHAPTER ONE.

  

  PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS.

  

  § I. What is the thinking right. What is the truth. 1

  
  II. Different ways of knowing the truth.

  2
  

  III. Variety of mills. 3

  
  IV. The perfection of the profession depends on the perfection with
known objects in them.

  4

  

  V. Everyone's interest to think well. 5

  
  VI. How to teach them to think well. 6

  

  CHAPTER II.

  

  CARE.

  

  § I. Definition of care. Their need. 7

  

  II. Advantages and disadvantages of their care need. 8

  

  III. How should the attention. Dazed and withdrawn. 9

  

  IV. Interruptions.

  11

  

  II. Instinct tells us the race that best fits us. 12

  

  III.

  Experiment to discern the unique talents of each child.

  14

  

  II. Ideas of possibility and impossibility. Their rankings. 15

  
  III. What is the absolute or metaphysical impossibility. 16

  

  IV. The absolute inability and divine omnipotence. 17

  

  V. Absolutely impossible, and dogmas. ID

VI. Idea of ​​natural or
physical impossibility. 18

VII. Way to judge the natural impossibility.
19

VIII. Disposes a difficulty about the miracles of Jesus Christ.
20

IX. The moral failure or ordinary. 22

X. Impossibility of common
sense contained in improperly moral impossibility. 26

II. Correcting
errors on occasion of the senses. His remedy. Examples. 29

IV. The
body healthy and sick at heart. 31

V. Real feelings, but without
external object. Explanation of this phenomenon. 33

VI. Cranky and
withdrawn. 35

II. Coexistence and succession. 37

III. Two rules
of coexistence and succession. 39

IV. Observations on the relationship
of chance. A rule the dialectic. 42

V. An example. 45

VI. Reflections
on the previous example. 46

VII. The reason of an act that seems
instinctive. ID

CHAPTER VII.

LOGIC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CHARITY.

§
I. Wisdom of the law that forbids rash judgments. 47

II. Examination
of the maxim "think wrong and miss." 48

III. Some rules for judging
the behavior of men. 56

II. Examination and application of the first
condition. 57

III. Examination and application of the second condition.
61

IV. A remark on the interest in cheating. 66

CHAPTER IX.

NEWSPAPERS.

§
I. An illusion. 67

II. The newspapers do not say everything about
the people. 68

III. The newspapers say it all about things. 71

CHAPTER
X.

FOREIGN TRAVEL.

§ I. Two very different relationships travel.
72

II. Origin and formation of some relationships travel. 73

III.
Way of studying a country. 78

II. Distinction between the background
of the fact and circumstances. Applications. 79

III. Some rules for
the study of history. 90

II. Scientific prudence and observations
to reach it. 91

III. The scholars raised. 97

CHAPTER XIII. The country had suffered recently
by heavy rains, and large tracts of land had been inundated. In anticipation of trouble, a
large stock of wheat had been laid in, but when it came to the point of disposing of it, the
bakers of the city and the bakers of Stratford-at-Bow declined to take it except at their own
price, until compelled by threats and, in some cases, imprisonment.(1146)

(M604)

For some years past Henry had been meditating a divorce from Catherine of Aragon, his brother’s
widow, but it was not until 1529 that the assent of the Pope was at last obtained to try the
validity of the marriage. The legatine court sat in the city at the house of the Blackfriars,
where every arrangement was made to add dignity to the proceedings. At its head sat the two
cardinals, Campeggio and Wolsey, on chairs covered with cloth of gold, and on their right sat
Henry himself.(1147) The sudden suspension of all proceedings after the court had sat for some
weeks, and the revocation of the cause to the Court of Rome, led to Wolsey’s downfall. In October
the seals were taken from him and given to Sir Thomas More, his furniture and plate were seized,
and he himself ordered to remove from London.

(M605)

A few days after Wolsey’s disgrace a banquet was held at the Guildhall on the occasion of the
swearing in of Ralph Dodmer, the newly-elected mayor. It is the first lord mayor’s banquet
of which any particulars have come down to us, and they are interesting as recording the names
of the chief guests. The mayor’s court, the scene of the feast, was boarded and hung with cloth
of Arras for the occasion. One table was set apart for peers of the realm, at the head of which
sat the new lord chancellor and at the bottom the lords Berkeley and Powis. At either side
of the table sat nine peers, among whom were the dukes of Norfolk and Suffolk, the one being
the treasurer and the other the marshal of England, Sir Thomas Grey, Marquis of Dorset, the
Earl of Oxford, high chamberlain, and the Earl of Shrewsbury, lord steward of England, Tunstal,
Bishop of London, Sir Thomas Boleyn, Lord Rochford, whose daughter Anne was shortly to experience
the peril of sharing Henry’s throne, Lord Audley, and others.  At two other tables, placed
between the court of orphans and the mayor’s court, were entertained a number of knights and
other gentlemen, whose names are not recorded.(1148)

(M606)

It was not long before further proceedings were taken against the king’s late minister. On
the 3rd November (1529), after the lapse of six years, parliament met in the city at the palace
of Bridewell. The City was represented by Thomas Seymer, an alderman and ex-mayor, John Baker,
the City’s Recorder, John Petyte, grocer, and Paul Wythypol,(1149) the merchant-tailor whose
election as alderman had recently created no little trouble. Among other members was Thomas
Cromwell,(1150) a friend of Wolsey, and destined soon to take his place as the king’s chief
adviser. A bill for disabling the cardinal from being restored to his former dignities was
carried by the Lords and sent down to the Commons (1 Dec.). There it is said to have met with
the strenuous opposition of Cromwell. Of this, however, there is some doubt, as it is uncertain
whether the bill provoked any discussion, parliament being shortly afterward prorogued (17
Dec.) and the unhappy cardinal left in suspense as to what fate was in store for him.(1151)
At Christmas he fell ill, and the king’s heart became so far softened towards his old favourite
that early in the following year (Feb., 1530) he was restored to the archbishopric of York
with all its possessions except York-place (Whitehall) in Westminster, which Henry could not
bring himself to surrender. His colleges were seized; the college he had founded at Ipswich
was sold; but his college at Oxford, known as Cardinal College, was afterwards re-established
under the name of Christ Church. He himself was not allowed to rest long in peace. He was summoned
to London on a charge of treason, for which there was little or no foundation, but the troubles
of the last two years had rendered him so infirm that he died on the way.

CHAPTER XIV.

(M607)

Although Wolsey was no more, his works followed him. He it was, and not Henry, who first conceived
the idea of church reform, towards which some steps had been taken in Wolsey’s lifetime. It
was left for Henry to carry out the design of his great minister. When the king laid his hand
on the monasteries, he only followed the example set by the cardinal in 1525, when some of
the smaller religious houses in Kent, Sussex and Essex were suppressed for his great foundation
of Oxford. To assist him in carrying out his design he turned to parliament. Relieved as they
now were of the oppression of the great nobles, the Commons were ready to use their newly-acquired
independence against the clergy, who exacted extravagant fees and misused the powers of the
ecclesiastical courts. Acts were passed regulating the payment of mortuary fees and the fees
for probate, whilst another Act restricted the holding of pluralities and the taking of ferms
by church-men.(1152) The clergy threatened to appeal to Rome, but were warned that such action
would be met with pains and penalties as opposed to the royal prerogative.(1153)

(M608)

In the city the question of tithes payable to the clergy had been always more or less a vexed
question. Before the commencement of the thirteenth century the city clergy had been supported
by casual dues in addition to their glebe land. These casual payments were originally personal,
but subsequently became regulated by the amount of rent paid by parishioners for their houses.
A question arose as to whether the citizens were also liable to pay personal tithes on their
gains, and it was eventually decided that they were so liable.(1154)

On the 31st August, 1527, a committee, which had been specially appointed to enquire into matters
concerning the city’s welfare, reported, among other things, upon the tithe question as it
then stood in the city.(1155) The "curates," they said, had purchased a Bull of Pope Nicholas,
on the 6th August, 1453, and this Bull had been confirmed by Act of Common Council on the 3rd
March, 1475. "Truly, gentlemen, he says, I do not know what the
hell Tonight we had at home. Occupied in dispatching some papers that I was in a hurry, I
had gone to bed yet, when behold, at around midnight I hear a noise that I thought the house we
came over. What is cat could not be, because it was impossible for him to do such a crash, and
also this morning nothing has been found, nor dislocated, or torn. O'clock lights, I have not
seen, but voices sounded so dreadful that I would have very nearly put fear in the body, is positive.
We'll see if the zambra is repeated: I am afraid that we wanted to play a trick. I wish to surprise
the actors play their part. " Since then the question changes its appearance, what was once
improbable has become credible, the fact is true, just need to clarify its nature.

§ III.

Examination and application of the second condition.

If you should guard against the deception that may have suffered innocently narrator not matter
less to be on guard against the lack of veracity. To this effect will be well informed of the
opinion that at this point enjoyed by the person, and above all to examine whether any passion the
interest or impel to lie. What can be done if the person who paints extraordinary fact weapons
is awaiting degrees, jobs and decorations?

It's pretty clear the party take the speculator, if not dominated by rigid moral principles, gentlemanly
delicacy. So, who relates events whose truth has great interest or appearance, witnesses suspect,
give credit to your word was very Thin proceed.

When we try to calculate the probability of an event we do not know but by the testimony other,
it must meet two conditions simultaneously explained: knowledge and
veracity.

But as in many cases, at most of the testimony, we have some data to guess on the probability of
what we are told, is necessary to make them come in combination, to decide with less risk of
error. Usually, there are many things to attend to, in which teach more examples than the rules.

A
general gives part of a brilliant victory just got, and the enemy, of course, was superior in
strength, occupied a very advantageous position, but has been run in all directions, and only
a hasty flight has escaped left to the winning number prisoners. The overall loss was negligible
in comparison with that of the enemy; some companies that carried his zeal too much had gone
ahead, wrapped viéronse by quadrupling forces and had a few moments
of conflict, but thanks to the bravery heads and wise general provisions,
pudiéronse replicate with the highest order without further result
that a few stray soldiers.

What concept form of the action?

In order to see how much circumspection is required if you want it right in trials, and with a view
to provide examples to serve on other standard cases, to detail the many circumstances that must be
met.

Is it generally known? Has reputation for honest and modest, boastful or square pass? What are his
military talents? Junior What you help? "Their troops have a reputation for courage and discipline?
Do you have distinguished themselves in other actions, or are discredited by frequent defeats?
How What enemy has had to contend? What was the object of the expedition of General? Did has succeeded
or not? In part there is a clause that says: "Be positive that the square N can still held a
few days. So I have not thought it necessary to hasten the operations, mostly when the situation
of the soldier, exhausted with hunger and fatigue, imperiously demanded some rest. The convoy
left the city safe in M, where I have retreated, leaving the enemy
a position that I was useless, and leaving that cebase in a portion
of provisions that in the heat of the fray fell into their power,
owing to a temporary disorder that was due fear of bagajeros.

"The business has a bad appearance, in spite of all the rodeos, the knows that the winner has lost
a part of the convoy, and could not go through the rest.

What we presented in testimony trophies of their victory?

It has not taken prisoners, and he confesses some have gone astray, those companies were too
early moments of conflict, and forces were involved in quadruplicate, all this means that there
was at that part of an "every man for himself" and that the enemy
did not fail to take hold.

What are the news coming from the place where the general has been
replicated?

It is likely that letters will be sad and distressing descriptions that will bring about the disorder
that came the troops, and the decrease of the convoy.

What do the supporters of the enemy?

Ah! just clarify this mystery has been laid bells to flight at the point P, and have entered
many prisoners, the enemies have been presented proud in the presence of the besieged city, whose troubles
are greater every day.

What is making the overall winner? It remains inactive, and adds that he has asked for reinforcements;
the brilliant victory will have been distinguished as a defeat.

§ IV.

A remark on the interest in cheating.

There are cases in which the narrator that seems interested in not telling the truth, it is unlikely
you have done, because soon discovered the lie, without recourse to alleviate it, would become
against him in a disgraceful manner.

Experience teaches us not to be trusted for certain military relations can not be contradicted
later, clearly and with the presence of positive data, producing complete evidence. The greatest
strength of the enemy or under the order or the dispersion with that this or that part of his
army retreated, the number of dead or wounded, I more or less favorable for some positions to
address the situation of the combatants, more or less impassable
roads, and other things along those lines, how can clarify the While
the public?

Everyone referred to things his own way, according to their news, interests or desires; and
they who know the truth are perhaps the first to darken the circulating most egregious untruths.
Those who come to get rid of the mess, and to see clearly in the business, or silent, or are
challenged by many thousand to sustain the illusion who care, and falling on the spot cheaters
never so shameful that do not allow any disguise. But suppose that a general who is besieging
a place, and can do nothing against it, is imprudent to send a pompous part of the government,
announcing that he has taken by assault and are in possession of the remains of the garrison who
have perished in the fray, at a few days will know the government knows the public will know
the same military that the general lied in a manner so shocking, and ridicule and the shame
that will befall you will impostor pay dearly for his glory for now.

Here is that in such cases the public's sense often ask if the part It's official: and if it is, but
that ignores the circumstances that seeks to enhance the fact nevertheless lends credence
to the existence of it. So it is noteworthy that when most serious troubles it lies in a scandalous
manner, with the aim of encouraging a few hours and lead to more time, rarely invents a part
naming people, it appeals to the formulas "we know the positive, an eyewitness to refer just"
and the like; offices are supposed to be printed later received, etc. are sorted public rejoicing.
but always tends to leave a way open for a lie does not hit the front too with good sense, are
careful not to compromise the name of specific individuals; in a
word, to reign the greatest audacity, always saved some considerations
to public awareness.

To leave it to lend credence to a relationship, not enough to object that the narrator is interested
in not telling the truth, it is necessary to consider whether the circumstances of the lie
is so unfortunate, that soon after its discovery there in their nakedness, without that fits the
deceiver the excuse that he was mistaken or had been misinformed. In these cases, however little
is the category of person, low self-esteem that it can be assume, mostly when the matter goes public,
it is prudent to give credit, if this can not be any damage. It will be possible to leave
deceived, but the probability is against and much higher level.

§ V.

Difficulties in reaching the truth, amid great distance of place or time.

If it is so difficult to find the truth, when the events are contemporary, and perform in our
own country, what about what happens to long distance of place or time, or of the two? How
is it possible to clean out the truth from the hands of passengers or historians? For more heartbreaking
it is, it must be confessed, who has observed how bulges, and exaggerated, and it decreases and
becomes distorted, and upset top-down as well as we seeing with our
eyes, by necessity has to feel very discouraged when you open a book
history or travel, or to read newspapers, particularly foreigners.

Who lives at the same time and country of events has many ways to
avoid error, or see things for himself, or he reads and hears very
different relationships that can compare each other, and as is data
on the backgrounds of people and things like is dealing with people
of opposing interests and opinions, as follows closely the course
of all events, it is not possible through hard work and discretion
rinsing at some points the truth.

But what will be the unfortunate reader who lives in the distant
past countries, and perhaps in the long distance of centuries, and
has no other guide than the newspaper or work by chance in a reading
room, or in a library, or to be acquired Recommended by seeing those
written somewhere, or heard praise of those who boasted understand?

There are three channels through which we tend to acquire knowledge
of what happens in times and distant places: newspapers, passenger
relations, and stories.

Tell four words on each of them [8].

CHAPTER IX.

NEWSPAPERS.

§ I.

An illusion.

Some believe that with respect to the countries where it is in effect the freedom of the press, no
is very difficult to find the truth, because having all sorts of interests and views any newspaper
that serves as a body, each vanish the mistakes of others, Gushing matching the light of truth. "Among
all know everything and say everything is no longer required be patient in reading, comparing
care, tact and prudence in discerning judge. "So run few. I think this is pure illusion, and the
first thing is that neither seat over to the persons or things, the papers do not say all, nor
much, nor even that who know the writers, even in the freest country.

§ II.

The newspapers say it all about people.

We are witnessing at every step that proponents of what is called a salience, the intemperate
praise to praise, while his opponents he was given to the dictates hands full ignorant, stupid,
inhuman, bloodthirsty, tigre, traitor, monster, and other niceties for this style. The knowledge,
talent, honesty, kindness, generosity and other qualities ascribed to the hero the writers of
his devotion, are in fact somewhat faded with fulfillment of its enemies, but finally, what do
you find a clean of this turmoil? What think abroad to be decided by one end, or to adopt a middle
way referee referee? The result is groping, and be clarified or to suspend trial or to fall
into gross errors. The public career of the man in question is not always indicated by well-characterized
events, and also what is in them good or bad, not always is it clear whether attributed to
him or to his subordinates.

The funny thing is that sometimes such strife between the public opinion in certain circles,
and maybe in the whole country, is fixed on the character, so that does not appear but lies by
mutual agreement. In fact, talking with men who are without news, maybe the same as they have
declared war over raw, "what is talent, you will hear, nobody denies, knows a lot and has no
bad intentions, but what would you have ?.... gotten in That, and
oust need, I'm the first to respect as a private person, and hopefully
we had listened to us, we would have done much, and would have played
a role brilliant.

"You see that one so honest, so intelligent, active and energetic, to say of certain newspapers,
he and only he can remove the country from the brink? Listen to those who know him closely, and
perhaps his most ardent supporters. "That is an unhappy already know, but at last is the man
we need, and someone we have to enforce.

He is accused of handling unclean, that who is ignorant? in bank A has made such funds, and
now is going to do the same in the bank B. In fact stealing a manner too shocking, but see V., and
how common this is ...., and also, when we accuse our opponents, not it is necessary that one
would leave the horns of the bull. Do not know V. the history of this man? as I'll tell V. his
life and miracles ... "And I relate his adventures, ups and low, and its evil or misery, or
nonsense, and since then you suffer no illusions, and you judge forward
with confidence and success.

These proportions do not usually enjoy them foreigners or nationals who satisfied with the reading
of newspapers, and so believe that the comparison of those opposite views are clear about
the truth, form the most wrong concepts men and things.

The fear of being denounced, of alienating some people, the respect due to privacy, decorum itself,
and other similar reasons, often to prevent newspapers descending to certain details, and refer
anécdoctas that portray the character alive who attack, it sometimes happens that the same
exaggeration of the charges, intemperance of invective, and the cruelty of the satire, or do
not do much damage with it could do with the simple and quiet exhibition of some particular facts.

The writers usually distinguish between the private man and public
figure, ie very good in most cases, because otherwise the controversial
journalistic luck and too bitter and broken, soon became a quagmire
where it stirred intolerable filth, but this does not mean that the
private life of a man not used very either to speculate on their behavior
in public places.

Who in the regular treatment does not respect the property of others,
would he proceed with purity when handling the finances of the nation?

The man in bad faith, no convictions of any kind, without religion,
without morals, do you think to be consistent in the political principles
appear to profess, and in his words and promises can rest assured
the government that uses their services?

The Epicurean per system, which shamelessly insulting the people the public decorum, being a
bad husband and bad father, do you think that renounce their profligacy when they see elevated
to the judiciary, and of corruption and insolence have nothing to fear innocence and good fortune,
nothing to hope for the insolence and injustice of the wicked? And none of it say newspapers
can say nothing but the writers are satisfied without any doubt.

§ III.

The newspapers say it all about things.

Even in politics, is not true that the newspapers say it all.

Who does not know how far Usually the views expressed in friendly
conversation of what is said written?

When writing in public there is always some formalities to be filled, and many considerations
to keep, not a few say the opposite of what they think, and even more rigid in terms of accuracy
are sometimes specified as not to say what I do not think, at least that much less than you think. We
should not forget these warnings, if want to know something more in politics than they walk through
the world as many fake currency recognized, accepted each other without so intelligent mistake
on its weight and fineness. [9]

CHAPTER X.

FOREIGN TRAVEL.

§ I.

Two very different relationships travel.

In this kind of writing should be distinguished two parts: the descriptions of objects which seen, or
scenes you witnessed the traveler, and other news and observations that fills his work. As regards
the former, we should remember what has been said about the truth; adding two caveats: 1 ª.
that distrust of the fidelity of the pictures should be kept some proportion to the distance
from the scene, by the thing: distant lands, Luengas lies, 2 ª. that travelers are at risk
of exaggerating, disfiguring, and to pretend, be doing very wrong ideas about the country that
describe, for the vain itch to be interesting, and given importance, telling outlandish adventures.

As
to the other news and observations, it is possible to reduce fixed rules how to distinguish
truth from error, mostly being impossible task in many cases. But it will be characterized
by thoughts that somehow fill the void of rules, inspiring mistrust and maintaining prudent to
keep the inexperienced and unwary.

§ II.

Origin and formation of some relationships travel.

How are most of the trips? Spending no more than the most famous places, both in stopping some
major points, and across the country through so quickly as is possible, therefore to instigate
this powerful three reasons: to save time, save money, and lessen the discomfort. If the country
is cultivated, with good roads, with canals, rivers and coasts of
rapid navigation, the traveler jumps from one capital to another shooting
like an arrow; asleep with the rocking of the car or ship, and poking
his head out the door to recreate the view of some beautiful landscape,
or strolling on deck watching the banks of the river which robs power.

Hence results from across the country through is completely unknown in regards to ideas, religion
and customs. Something is about the quality of the land and the costumes of the inhabitants,
because both objects offered to the eyes, but even in these things if the traveler is cautious,
and attempts to speak general, readers may disseminate false news items and extravagant. If
from here to Some years we go through the Ebro from Zaragoza to Tortosa, the traveler to paint
field and costumes of Aragon and Catalonia, stick to what we had seen on the banks the river,
by the way that they provide to their readers back crazy.

Now reflect the relationships fond of travel, if you need to do the detailed news about a country
many thousands of square miles described by a passenger who observed in the above manner. "He who
has seen up close what he says, and will without a trace of doubt "in this way you talk, or
credulous reader, thinking that this news gathering put your hard work and care guide, for I'll
tell you what might very well have happened, and again do not leave so easily fooled.

Travelers come to the capital, perhaps with little knowledge of the language, and perhaps with
any, will be walked dazed and confused some days, in the maze of streets and squares, often
deployed to the city level, asking at every corner, and out of step the best possible way to find
the passport office, the home of the embassy, ​​and sugetos for those who carried the letter of
recommendation.

This time is not well adapted to observe, and if at times takes car to get rid of tiredness
and to avoid loss, the worse for the notes of their portfolio: all paraded his eyes very quickly
and in flashlight magic illusions pictures, collect very pleasant sensations, but not much
news. Next comes the visit of the main buildings, monuments and beauties beauties whose index
is in the guide, and the capital or not be in the majors, or would it have gone many days in
the said task. The season is ahead, it should still visit other cities, go to the bathroom, attend
this or that scene at a distant point, the traveler to take the baton and run to run elsewhere so just
to practice there. At Within months of his departure from the homeland, is now back, and ordered during
the winter his notes, and spring is a growing sales volume on the
trip.

Agriculture arts, commerce, science, politics, popular ideas, religion, customs, habits, character,
everything has closely observed the lucky traveler, in his book is universal statistics the country;
Creedle on his word and you can save you work out of your closet,
but the most ignorant small and delicate details.

How could acquire as much news copy? An Argos not enough to see and feel both in such a short
time, and besides, how will know what happened there that has not been, is say, to hundreds
of miles to the right and left of the road, canal or river where traveling? See here. When to take
the first rays of the sun, at the door of the car, disperta there, and yawning, and stretching
will cast a glance over the country, which no longer resembles what it was last night, arranging
her legs crossed and the gentleman opposite, perhaps the following will be locked conversation
.-- V. the country knows this? - A little .-- The people that his name? - If I remember correctly is
N. - The main products of the country? - N .-- The industry? - N
.-- Character? - Phlegmatic as postilion .-- Wealth? - as Jews.

Meanwhile the car comes to the inn, the responses are perhaps up without saying goodbye; and
ignored reports of who they are, which include positive data from the notes the observer,
who will joke to say that what has been seen.

But as these resources are not sufficient and would leave too incomplete
description, collect carefully outlandish costumes, irregular buildings,
grotesque dances that have offered to step, and HEOS here a picture
of general practices that nothing will desired.

However, even there is another mine that will operate the passenger,
and where perhaps will draw the main treasure.

In newspapers and on the guidelines, found in great numbers news which need to form their statistical
data and pull away, ordering different, inserting something of what he has seen or heard or guessed,
it will be a whole which will be circulated as a result of the research work of the traveler,
and substance will no longer be for the most part, that stories of any and translations and
newspaper plagiarism and works.
In order not to miss the severity with which the authors try to travel
without so I propose to reduce the merit wherever he may be, suffice
to recall the follies and absurdities have published some foreigners
who have traveled in Spain. What we have to happened may well happen
to other peoples stand out well or badly, applauded with exaggeration,
or unjustly criticized, according to the humor, ideas, and other qualities
Thin the painter who was determined to take copies of originals that
had not seen.

§ III.

Way of studying a country.

Reason and experience
teach that concept to be fully a small region, and it can be described
as it is, under the material and moral aspect, it is necessary to
be familiar with the language, stay there long term, relationships
abound, being in continuous treatment without tired of asking and
observing. I do not think there is another means of acquiring accurate
news and be successful trial, the rest is beating in general, and
error-filled head and inaccuracies. Soon after their arrival
in England in 1223, they became indebted to the benevolence and generosity of citizens, their
first benefactor having been John Ewen, citizen and mercer, who made them a gift of some land
and houses in the parish of St. Nicholas by the Shambles. Upon this they erected their original
building. Stroke of genius.

If the understanding is that it can behave himself, if an examination of the works of great writers,
he is hard to imitate, and among them, not pygmy among giants, but as among their peers, then the
method of invention suits in a particular way, then it should be limited to know the books, he
must know things, not content with following the beaten path, but must seek paths you get along
better, straighter, and if possible to peak. Do not admit idea unanalyzed or proposition without question,
without examining or thinking, or rule unchecked, be formed a science itself, which it owns
as his blood, which is not a simple recitation of what have read, but the fruit of what he has
observed and thought.

What rules should be present? Those that have been identified above for all thinkers. Going
into details would be futile and perhaps impossible, that efforts to trace the genius a fixed
gear is no less reckless than hold the animated face expressions the petty circle of compassionate
gestures. When you see him boost his huge rush career, not words Turn then dull, sterile or advice,
and no rules have not observed; just tell him: "Image of the Deity, march to meet the targets
that you noted the Creator, do not forget your beginning and your end, you take flight and do
not know where you, raises his eyes to heaven, Just ask your Maker. He will show his will stick
to it faithfully comply are encrypted in your grandeur and glory
[18].

"

CHAPTER XIX.

Understanding, heart and imagination.

§ I.

Discretion in the exercise of the powers of the soul. Queen Dido.
Alejandro.

I said (Chapter XII) that to know the truth in certain
matters, it was necessary to deploy same time to different faculties
of the soul, and between them I had the feeling. Now add that while
this is necessary when dealing with those truths, the nature consists
of relations with that feeling, like everything beautiful or tender,
or sad or sublime, not when the truth belongs to a different computer
that has nothing to do with our ability to feel.

(M634)

On the other hand, the sudden closing of these institutions caused the streets to be thronged
with the sick and poor, and the small parish churches to be so crowded with those who had been
accustomed to frequent the larger and more commodious churches of the friars that there was
scarce room left for the parishioners themselves. The city authorities saw at once that something
would have to be done if they wished to keep their streets clear of beggars and of invalids,
and not invite the spread of sickness by allowing infected persons to wander at large. As a
means of affording temporary relief, collections for the poor were made every Sunday at Paul’s
Cross, after the sermon, and the proceeds were distributed weekly among the most necessitous,(1214)
but more comprehensive steps were required to be taken.

(M635)

Sir Richard Gresham,(1215) who was mayor at the time (1537-8), took upon himself to address
a letter(1216) to the king setting forth that there were three hospitals in the city, viz.,
St. Mary’s Spital, St. Bartholomew’s and St. Thomas’s, besides the New Abbey on Tower Hill—institutions
primarily founded "onely for the releffe, comforte and helpyng of pore and impotent people
not beyng able to helpe theymselffes; and not to the mayntenannce of Chanons, Preests, and
Monks to lyve in pleasure, nothyng regardyng the miserable people liyng in every strete, offendyng
every clene person passyng by the way with theyre fylthy and nasty savours"—and asking that
the mayor and aldermen of the city for the time being might have the order and disposition
of the hospitals mentioned, and of all the lands, tenements and revenues appertaining to the
same. If his grace would but grant this request the mayor promised that a great number of the
indigent sick would be relieved, whilst "sturdy beggars" not willing to work would be punished.

(M636) (M637)

In March, 1539, the City presented two petitions to the king, one desiring that the late dissolved
houses might be made over to them, together with their rents and revenues, in order that relief
might be provided for the sick and needy, and the other asking that Henry would be pleased
to convey to them the churches of the late four orders of friars, together with their lands
and tenements, so that the mayor and citizens might take order for the due performance of divine
service therein to the glory of God and the honour of the king.(1217) These petitions having
been either refused or ignored, the Court of Common Council, on the 1st August, 1540, authorised
the mayor and aldermen to make diligent suit to the king for the purchase of the houses, churches,
and cloisters of the dissolved friars, and to make an offer of 1,000 marks for them "yf thei
can be gotten no better chepe."(1218) Henry upbraided the City for being "pynche pence" or
stingy in their offer,(1219) but as no better offer was made the matter was allowed to stand
over, and nothing was done for four years. Finally come to a third advantageous renown.
Let's see if V. bail us out? - Very simple, so - Has V. reason, it was so easy and we had
not been able to give it.

Hannibal is at the eve of a naval battle, given its provisions, and meanwhile back to Some soldiers
carried aboard a large number of tightly covered clay vessel, whose contents Very few. Start
the fray, enemies laugh that marine Hannibal I throw those glasses instead of arrows, the mud
is shattered, and the damage they cause is very little. Spend a few moments, a sailor feels a terrible
bite: the cry of hurt succeeded by another, all they look and note with dismay that the ship is
full of snakes. Introdúcese disorder, Aníbal maneuver with skill and victory is in their favor.
Surely everyone knew that was possible to collect many snakes, and enclosing them in jars mud,
and throw to the enemy ships, but the occurrence was only the wily Carthaginian. And he certainly
found the infernal scheme, without reasoning or brooding, perhaps Bastola someone to mind
the word snake, so of course they hit upon this reptile could serve excellent assistant.

What these examples tell us? tell us that talent often consists in seeing a relationship is patent,
and which no overshoot. She is not in itself difficult, and the proof is that as soon as one
discovers it, and pointing his finger saying, 'Look,' everyone sees without effort, and to
be admired for not having warned. So language, led by the force of things, calls to these
thoughts occurrences, shocks, inspirations thus expressing no cost work, who offered themselves.

§
VI.

Rule for meditation.

From this we infer that to think it not a good method to put the spirit in torture but should
leave you with some relief. Is mulling over an object, apparently not advance, with the attention
on one thing, it would seem that is dozing. No matter, not violenteis, see if you discover any
clue to guide him, is similar to that in your hand a closed box with a mysterious spring in
which you want to test the ingenuity, if it finds a way to open it. Contemplates a long time, the
returns repeatedly Press your finger now, now struggles with the
nail until the end remains motionless for a moment and says: "Here
is the spring, is already open."

§ VII.

Nature of high intelligence. Notable doctrine of St. Thomas Aquinas.

Why can not happen to everyone some simple truths?

How did the human race has looking at which spirits are extraordinary things to them that apparently
the whole world had seen? This is to seek the reason of a mystery of Providence, this is to
ask why the Creator has given to some privileged men great power of intuition, I mean immediate intellectual
vision, and has denied the greatest number.

St. Thomas Aquinas develops on this particular admirable doctrine. According to the holy Doctor,
the passage is a sign of limited scope of understanding, is an option we granted to supply
to our weakness, and so is that the angels understand, but not run. The higher intelligence,
less ideas you, because it contains in short, what the more limited are distributed in thousands.
Thus the highest-ranking angels understand through a few ideas, the
number is reduced to as maids intelligences they approach the Creator,
who as being infinite and infinite intelligence, all-seeing in a single
idea, unique, most simple, but infinite: its very essence.

How sublime theory! She alone is worth a book, it proves a deep knowledge of the secrets of
the spirit; it suggests many applications regarding the understanding of man.

Indeed, higher geniuses are not known for the great abundance of ideas, but that are held by some,
capital, widths, where they fit into the world. The fatigue creeping bird is hovering, and covers
much ground, not out of the narrow and winding of the valleys, the
majestic eagle flight back, alights on the summit of the Alps, and
from there includes mountains, valleys, the flow of rivers, vast plains
populated currency cities, and enlivened with delightful meadows,
pastures Galanas rich and varied harvests.

In all matters there is a main point of view, dominant in the genius he is placed. There is the
key, from there it dominates. If the common man they are unable suddenly placed in the same place,
at least they should try to get him to labor; no doubt that this will save much time, and achieve
the most advantageous. Although there has been, any question and to all science, have a few
points or capital those who refer others. In reaching them, everything appears simple and
plain, in any other way but that no details are never set. Human understanding, and in itself so
weak, it is necessary to show the objects as simplified as possible; and therefore is of utmost
importance foliage rid of useless, and moreover, where necessary carry many simultaneous attention,
they are so arranged which was reduced to a few classes, and each of these linked at one point.
So you learn more easily, is seen with clarity and accuracy, and powerful memory aids.

§ VIII.

Necessity.

The doctrines of this chapter on inspiration and intuition, can we infer the desirability leaving
the speech, and to work, and dedication to a kind of intellectual quietism? Certainly not. For
the development of every faculty is a necessary condition: exercise. In the intellectual and physically,
the body does not work goes to sleep, lost his life the member does not move breaks down.
Even the most privileged geniuses fail to acquire Herculean strength, but after long work.
The inspiration does not come down over the lazy; does not exist when not boiled in the spirit
fertilizing ideas and feelings. Intuition, the view of understanding, but not acquired a habit engendered
by the long look. Fast browsing, safe and sensitive of a great painter, not only due to nature,
but also to the long contemplation and observation of good role models,
and the magic of music not unfold in the most harmonious organization,
subject only to hear sounds harsh and annealed [16].

CHAPTER XVII.

EDUCATION.

§ I.

Two objects of education. Different kinds of teachers.

Commonly distinguish between the dialectical method of teaching and invention. About either
I shall give some remarks.

Education has two objects: 1. to instruct students on the elements
of science: 2 º. develop their talent when they leave school can make
progress provided to its capacity.

It may seem that these two objects are but one, but it is not. The first reach all teachers who
have moderately science, the second did not arrive those of outstanding
merit.

For the former, just knowing the sequence of some facts and propositions, which together form
the body of science is necessary for the latter know how it has built the chain that links
an end to the other, for the first sufficient men who know the books,
for the latter are needed men who know things.

But I will say, may well be that a teacher is more surface for the simple purpose to teaching the
elements that other very deep as this without warning, it will take speeches to complicate the
simplicity of the first notions, and so damage to the perception hardly capable of students.

The clear explanation of terms, the exposure level of the principles which underlie science,
the methodical coordination of the theorems and their corollaries, here is the object of those who
do not intend more than instruction in the elements.

But that extends beyond their looks, and consider that the understandings of young people tables
are not only where they have to throw some lines remain unchanged there forever, but fields that
have to fertilize with precious seed, to the tasks incumbent highest and most difficult. Reconciling
the clarity with depth, simplicity twinning with the combination, drive on flat road and train
at the same time on walking trails rough, showing the narrow, tangled paths through which they
passed the first inventors, Live inspire enthusiasm, talent awaken
the consciousness of its own forces, without harm with reckless presumption,
behold the powers of the teacher who believes teaching elemental rather
than fruit, but as seed.

§ II.

Ignored geniuses of others, and themselves.

How few are gifted teachers of this wonderful skill! And how is it possible that has in the pitiful
neglect in which lies this industry? Who takes care of amateur teaching to men of high ability?
Who tries to fix them in this occupation, if they decide ever to undertake? The chairs are
looked to as much as a focus to raise more above, with the arduous
tasks that they impose, join thousands upon thousands of a different
order, and plays are running and how distraction to what should obsorb
the whole man.

So when young people is one in which the flame front spark of genius nobody says, no one tells
it, nobody is made to feel: and sandwiched between the good talents, continued his career without
being made to experience the scope of their forces. Because we need to know that these forces do
not always know who possesses it, even they are with respect to the same thing he occupies.
May well be that the fire of genius life remains in ashes, not to have been a hand that shook.
Did not we see at every step that a lijereza extraordinary, a unique flexibility of certain members,
great muscular strength and other physical qualities, are hidden until a casual test comes to
reveal who owns them? If Hercules does not handle more than a stick, never believed to be able to
wield a heavy club.

§ III.

Means to discover the hidden talents, and appreciate in value.

A math teacher to explain to his students the theory of conic sections are give a clear and accurate
idea of ​​these curves, the equations expressing nature, and deducing the properties of the
stem. So far the student learns While the elements, but not exercised in the development of his
intellectual powers, nothing is offered that can make you feel the talent of invention, if he
actually possesses. But if the professor points out that this fundamental equation, apparently of
mere convention, it is unlikely that it has been established for no reason, of course the young
man is ill insurance based on sound that was said, and seeks the means of giving some support.
If a student misses in the generative principle of these curves, it can be noted the name they
bear, and recalled that the section parallel to the base of the cone is a circle. So naturally
the student cut the cone with planes at different positions, and at the first glance warns that if
the section is closed, and not parallel to the base, are curves whose shape resembles to the ellipse
is called. And imagine the section closest to parallelism, and more distant and always note
that the figure is an ellipse, with the only difference being the most applanation the sides,
or else the biggest difference of the axes. Is it possible to express by an equation the nature
of this curve? Are there any known data? Do you have a relationship
with properties of the cone, and the parallel section?

Does the greater or less inclination of the plane change the nature of the section? Giving
to the plane other positions, so that does not leave locked section, what curves are? Is there
any similarity between them and the parables and hyperbole? These and other questions are
offered to gifted disciple of capacity and is very happy if provisions veréisle instantly pull
lines inside the cone, compared to each other, conceive triangles, calculate their relationships,
and to explore a thousand ways to arrive at the equation desired. So do not just learn the basics
of the theory, has become and an inventor, his talent as fuel is
primed, and when insulated procedures of primary education had many
equals in intelligence doctrine explained now ye shall see that his
companions left far behind, that they have not taken a step, whilst
him, or has obtained the result that is sought, or advance in the
true path.

Then releases its forces, and knows himself, then it feels that the capacity is above to the routine,
and maybe in time you can expand the domain of science.

A natural law professor fully explained the rights and duties of parental rights, and obligations
of children with respect to parents, saying the definitions and reasons in such cases usually.
So here come the elements, but nothing is to develop the philosophical
genius of a privileged student, or you can make stand out among the
pool of peers and having a regular capacity.

The skillful teacher want to take the measure of the talents that exist in the chair, and
the time left over after the explanation he used in an experiment.

-
What about these duties seems to V. if they say something the feelings
of the heart?

Lights of philosophy do you agree with the inspirations of nature?

To answer this question to the medium, noting that parents naturally want to the children, and these
to the parents, and thus are linked from our duties in our affections,
instigating these compliance with those.

So far there is no difference between students who are called good
talent.

But the professor goes on to analyze the subject and question.

- How do you like to V. of the children who misbehave with parents, and not under due gratitude
to the love that these are lavished?

- Missing a sacred duty to heed not the voice of nature.

- But how come we see so often as children should not meet with their parents, while these if
something missing, usually due to overabundance of love and tenderness?

- In this the children are very bad, say the one.

- Men are easily forgotten the benefits received, tell the other, who allege the children as
they advance in age attentions are distracted by a thousand different; who remember that new
affection engendered in their minds, on account of the family that become heads, which should
reduce their fathers: and each walk noting reasons more or less adapted, more or less solid,
but none entirely satisfying. If among your students is one that has to acquire renown clarified
over time, dirigidle the same question, to see if something is right to say that unravel and
illustrious.

- It is too true, I answer, that too often missing children to their duties to their parents,
but, if I mistake not, the reason for this lies in the very nature of things. The more necessary
it is for the preservation and good order of beings compliance of duty, the Creator has sought
to ensure more compliance. The world is saved, more or less well, in spite of the bad behavior
of the children, but the day that parents misbehave and forget to
take care of their children, the human race would walk to his ruin.

So it is noteworthy that the children, even the best, not his parents profess an affection
so alive and burn as fathers to their children. The Creator certainly could impart to children
a so passionate and tender love as it is the parents, but this was
not necessary, and the same is not already.

And it is noteworthy that the mothers, who have greater need this
love and tenderness, which have led to the limits of frenzy, having
got girt the Breeder against fatigue that could produce the first
care of children.

It also appears that the lack of fulfillment of duties in the children,
there is no precisely that these are worse, for them if they become
parents, they behave as did the his, but that his filial love is less
intense than the paternal, carries much less ascendancy and dominance
over the heart, and therefore more easily subsides, it is less strong
to overcome obstacles, and exerts less influence on all of our actions.

In

the early disciples exploited responses found in this you discover the young philosopher who
begins to stand out as among stunted rose bushes tender oak walk the years that will be felt
in the forest by his big trunk and superb drink.

§ IX.

Need for basic studies.

Not created by the above, it deems appropriate to youth emancipating education elements, on the contrary,
I think he has to learn a science, however great are forces that feel equipped, it should be subject
to this mortification is as the novitiate of the letters. In this attempt many items exempted
by appealing to dictionary which contains enough to talk about everything without understanding
anything, but reason and experience demonstrate that such a method can not serve but to form what scholars
call the violet.

In effect there is in every science and profession a set of key ideas, voices and phrases peculiar
to it, which are not learned well, but considering an elemental work: so when there was no other
considerations, this would suffice to demonstrate the drawbacks to take another path. These key
concepts, and those voices and idioms, to be regarded with some respect for those who re-enters the race,
presumably because it has not in vain have worked so far which were devoted to it. If the newcomer
is mistrust of his predecessors, if you expect to reform the science or profession, and to vary dramatically,
must at least reflect, it is prudent to learn what others have said, it is bold commitment
to create everything by itself, and is exposed to waste time, not
love each other to take in any of the hardships of others.

The most extraordinary driver starts perhaps to pursue her profession in the shop of a modest craftsman,
and with great hopes which may be based on his brilliant arrangements, it remains so to learn
the names and handling of instruments and appliances work. Over time they will in many variations,
the other stuff will be more adapted, changed its form and perhaps its name, but for now need
to take them such as is, you exercise with them, until the reflection and experience have shown him that
suffer disadvantages and improvements that are susceptible.

Can be applied to all sciences the advice given to those who want to learn the story: Before
you begin your study, you must read a compendium. In this regard is remarkable Bossuet's words
in the dedication which precedes his Discourse on Universal History. Seats need to study history
in brief, to avoid confusion and save fatigue, and then adds: "This way of presenting the
world history will compare to the description geographical maps: universal history is compared
to the general map stories of each country and each people. In particular maps you see often
what is a kingdom or a province itself, in the universal you learn to fix these parts the world as
a whole, in a word, you see the part that deals with Paris or the Isle of France the kingdom, the
kingdom has in Europe, and that Europe is in the universe.

"Well well: the timely and bright comparison between the World Map and individuals apply to all
branches of knowledge. In all there are a number of which must take over to better understand the
parts, and not go confused and lost on the way sorting.

Even the ideas that are acquired by this method are almost always incomplete, often inaccurate,
and sometimes false, but all these problems even not so heavy as those resulting to rush blindly,
without background or guidance, the study of science.

Elementary works, we say, are nothing more than a skeleton, it is
true, but as is saves a lot of work, finding him already formed, it
will be easier to correct his faults, covering of nerves, muscles
and flesh, her warm, movement and life.

Among those who have studied science principles, and who, so to speak,
have taken their ideas on the fly, encyclopedias and dictionaries,
there is always a difference not escapes to a trained eye.

The former are distinguished by the precision of ideas and property
language, the others may look abundant and select news, but to the
best give a solemn occasion slip stating its superficiality ignorant
[17].

CHAPTER XVIII.

The invention.

§ I.

What to do who lack the talent for invention.

I have said enough about the methods of teaching and learning, was
treated the method of invention.

Knowing the elements of a science, and man comes to age and position that can devoted to studies
of greater length and depth, is on the case to follow paths less
beaten, and undertake more daring companies.

If nature has not gifted talent Invention, it must be satisfied for life with the elemental method,
rather than taken on a larger scale. Need guides, and this service will provide the masterpieces.
But not is believed to be understood doomed to blind subservience, and not daring to disagree
never to the authority of your teachers in the military scientific and literary, is not as
severe discipline that is not lawful for a soldier to direct some comments to his boss.

§ II.

Scientific authority.

Men able to lift and carry a flag, very few, and better is to enlist in the ranks of accredited
general, not miserable way to go guerrilla, affecting the importance of illustrious leader.

Saying this is not my intention to preach the authority in matters
purely scientific and literary; throughout the course of the work
I have given enough to understand that do not suffer from this ailment,
only I intend to indicate a need for our understanding, that being
usually very thin, has need of support. Ivy intertwined with a tree,
rises to great heights, if grow without came over would lie stretched
on the ground trampled by all passersby. In addition, not for having
made this observation, we have to change the regular order of things:
for with it I have given rather a fact that offered advice. If a fact,
because in spite of as much as it boasts of independence, it is clearer
than the midday light of this independence does not exist, much of
humanity walking tour by some leaders, and these to his spirit is
carried by the path of truth or of error.

This is a fact of all countries
and all centuries, a fact because it is indestructible founded in
the very nature of man. The weaker the strong feeling of superiority,
and humiliated in their presence, the genius is the heritage of mankind,
is a privilege to few granted: who has exercised an influence over
other irresistible.
But inasmuch as the informer had not been present himself, and that what he had laid before
the court was mere hearsay evidence, little attention was paid to it.(1279)

(M663)

The abolition of chantries initiated by Henry VIII was carried out to a fuller extent by his
successor. The statute (1 Edward VI, cap 14) by which this was effected not only deprived a
large number of priests of a means of livelihood, but laid them open to insult from those they
met in the street. They complained that they could not walk abroad nor attend the court at
Westminster without being reviled and having their tippets and caps violently pulled.(1280)

(M664)

The same statute—by declaring all chantries, obits, lights and lamps to be objects of superstitious
use, and all goods, chattels, jewels, plate, ornaments and other moveables hitherto devoted
to their maintenance to be thenceforth escheated to the Crown—dealt a heavy blow to the Corporation
of the City of London, as well as to the civic companies and other bodies who owned property
subject to certain payments under one or other of these heads. Three years after the passing
of the Act the Corporation and the companies redeemed certain charges of this character on
their respective properties to the amount of £939 2s. 5-1/2d. by payment to the Crown of no
less a sum than £18,744 11s. 2d.(1281)

The redemption of these and other charges of a similar character, whilst very convenient to
the Crown, saving the trouble and expense of collecting small sums of money, worked a hardship
upon the Corporation and the companies. In order to raise funds for redeeming the charges they
were obliged to sell property. This property was often held under conditions of reverter and
remainders over, unless what was now declared to be illegal was religiously carried out. It
was manifestly unfair that they should be made to forfeit property because the conditions under
which it was held could no longer be legally complied with. Everything is saved except some embezzlement, I calculate
of little consideration. I run, because the boat is going to be coming to the sailing. " etc.
etc.

Today's mail was not to commit suicide, that of the guesswork out lucid, especially for having become
the possibility into reality, having to lie in assumptions free,
having been deluded with sort of a satisfactory explanation.

- If
you could be a murder ?....

- It is clear, because in this post ....
and besides, this man was not without enemies.

- The other day his
settler N. threatened him terribly.

- It is very bad .....

- Oh!
terrible .... life has been accustomed to shoulder .... come on, has
frightened the neighborhood ....

- And how were they now?

- To kill
this morning went out together in the deceased's house and spoke both
very tough.

- And the settlers used to walk here?

- Always, to two
steps has a field, and also the question was (but this is the among
us), the question was about those oaks from the brink.

The owner complained that he spoiled the forest, the other refused,
as in this same place were the other day to be a clubbing peak.

Look Vds.

... but one must not lose to an unhappy .... almost every day were
in quarrels in the same place.

- Then did not speak V. more ....
is an atrocity! test but how ?....

- And today Vds. seen as not working
in the field, and its implement is there .... and is known who has
worked today ..... We no longer doubt it is evident, the unhappy is
lost, because it will breathe .....

Then one of the people.

- What
a disgrace!

- Do not you know?

- No sir, now I have this at home.

I went to see him, if appeased with poor N. being held in the hall
...

- Prisoner ?....

- Yes folks, I've been crying, his wife says
that word has been exceeded, and that the mayor has been arrested.

As you know it's so bully Vds. !....

- What has come over the camp since he spoke this morning with the deceased in the street?

- How then had to leave? Vds. and you will find there, which is very early; The poor guy was
plowing there !....

New disappointment, the murderer was at long distance, the prisoner was the settler, new disappointment
assumptions to be wary of free, not to confuse reality with the possibility
and not freak out with plausible appearances.

§ VII.

Concern for doctrine.

Behold one of the most precious sources of error, that is the real drag of science, one of
the biggest obstacles to slow their progress.

Incredible serious influence of prejudice, if the history of the
human spirit not testify with indisputable facts.

The man dominated by a concern not seek or books or things that really
there, but what is best to support their views.

 The fact
was that the Protector Somerset required material for building his new palace in the Strand,(1286)
to enlarge which he had already pulled down Strand Church, dedicated to Saint Mary and the
Holy Innocents.(1287) The destruction of the cloister necessitated a new order of procession
on the next Lord Mayor’s Day (24 Oct.), when Sir Rowland Hill paid the customary visit to St.
Paul’s, made a circuit of the interior of the cathedral, and said a De profundis at the bishop’s
tomb.(1288)

(M666)

Nor can the civic authorities themselves be altogether acquitted of vandalism. Why not confess? Because I love you, I laugh to myself thanks. So
TALES AND DIALOGUES I've loved to write and even to read and reread them after writing. And
this is pretty win, but the charm of fun no pass from me or forward to others. I feel sick, but
I will console myself by imagining, because self-esteem is very subtle inventor, if not thank
me laugh the other is because such because they are disguised and hidden in the text, and so
did not see who did not penetrate and deepens. I will try, on another occasion, to thank, if
I have something more superficial. Meanwhile, be content V. or rather not upset by this that I dedicate,
for I know I do that, if it is something and if you joke, V. will find him, but I need to have
where is the funny indicate that V. I laugh.

Believe me always your good friend

J. Valera.

  Lisbon February 20, 1882.

  
  
  CONTENTS
  
  The green
  bird Parsondes The bermejino prehistoric or blue salamanders Asclepigenia
Gopa Santa

THE GREEN BIRD.

I.

There was, in very remote times in which we live is a powerful king, loved to end their subjects,
and possessed of a fertile, extensive and populous kingdom in the regions beyond East. King had
this immense treasure, and gave lavish parties. Attended at his court the gentler and more discreet
ladies and brave knights who then had in the world. His army was large and tough. Their ships
traveled the ocean as if in triumph.

Parks and gardens, where I used to hunt and loose, were wonderful in its grandeur and lushness,
and the copy of vermin and birds that ate them and lived.

But what of their palaces and what was locked in his palaces, whose magnificence exceeds any weight?
There delicious furniture, thrones of gold and silver, and tableware porcelain, which was less
common then than now; there dwarves, jigantes, jesters and other monsters for the leisure and
entertainment SM cooks and bakers there deep and prominent, which took care of their bodily
food, and there no less profound and eminent philosophers, poets
and lawyers, who tended to give grass to his spirit, who attended
his privy council, who chose the most difficult questions of law,
which sharpened and exercised the ingenuity with and logogriphs charades
and singing the glories of the dynasty in colossal epics.

The subjects of this King rightly called him the Fortunate. Everything went from good to better
for his reign. His life had been a fabric of happiness, whose brilliance marred only dark shadow
of pain with the early death of Mrs King, a very full and beautiful
SM who had loved with all his heart.

Imagine, reader, what the cry, and more having been him, by the same love he had unblemished,
innocent cause of his death.

Tell the stories of that country that the King had seven years of marriage without achieving succession,
but vehemently desired, when a war occurred in the neighboring country.

The King departed with his troops, but before he took leave of the Queen with great affection. This,
giving him a hug, he whispered: - Do not tell anyone to not laugh if my hopes not achieved,
but I think I'm on tape.

The joy of the King with this new no bounds, and as everything goes well when you're happy, he
triumphed over his enemies in war, killed by his own hand to three or four kings had made him
do not know what trick, devastated cities, made captive, and returned loaded loot and glory
to the beautiful capital of its monarchy.

This had happened in a few months, and thus to cross the King with
great pomp in the city, between the cheers and applause from the crowd
and the clatter of bells, Queen was giving birth, and bore with happiness
and ease, despite the noise and agitation, but were primiparous. 

What
would have appalling taste as SM when, on entering the royal chamber,
the midwife more the kingdom was introduced to a beautiful princess
who was just born! The mayor and aldermen rode out to Southwark,
the former in a gown of crimson velvet, the latter in gowns of scarlet, to meet the royal party,
and conducted it as far as Charing Cross, where the aldermen took their leave, the king saluting
them and "putting of his capp to everie of them." The mayor rode on to Westminster, where the
king and the Protector graciously bade him farewell.(1301)

(M672)

The aspect of affairs began to look black indeed. The
dyer was pounding in a mortar one hundred and one hundred subjects who was now taking a pot,
a kettle pray, pray in a pouch, and rummaging around, and having a pot to another, and throwing
now here, now thither, smelled tablespoons of liquid, and whose contact was necessary to save the
skin because it gnawed more than fire, was preparing to empty the ingredients in different boilers, and
buried in that filth large number of materials and manufacturing invaluable. "This is going to
waste all, he said analytical. In this dish is the ingredient A, such as V. know, is extremely
caustic, and that also gives a color very ugly. In this other rubber B is excellent for spotting,
and whose signs are not removed but with great difficulty. In this boiler is the stick C, which
may serve to give a crude color and common, but that I do not have to produce anything how exquisite.
In a word, examined everything separately, I find that V. ingredients used contrary to what
V. proposed; and now I can be sure that instead of taking anything according to the beautiful
samples is V. in the office, going to suffer a loss of consideration in its reputation and interests.
" "Everything is possible, Mr. Philosopher, he said the inexorable dyer, taking into his hands
the precious rich materials and manufacturing, and dipping them without mercy on the dirty and smelly
boiler anything is possible, but to end the discussion, let V. see here within a few days. " The philosopher
came into effect, and the dyer faded all objections to deploying fabrics eyes rigorous demonstration
that had to be squandered. What a surprise! What a humiliation for the analytical! Showed a
fine scarlet, other delicate green, other beautiful blue, sometimes exquisite orange, black
uploaded other, other white covered Thin with many flowers, others sported delicious jasper field
to a time where beauty and caprice. The nuances were many and charming, manufacturing clean, smooth,
bright as if they had been covered with glass without suffering the hand contact man. The philosopher
is left confused and crestfallen, saying to himself, "knowing is not the same what a thing by
itself, or what may be in combination with other, hereafter no I shall just break down and separate,
which also makes composing and collecting wonders: witness the dry cleaner. "

§ V.

Objects seen by one side.

Understandings otherwise very clear and insightful, unfortunately spoil by itching to develop
a series of ideas that represents the object but on the one hand, eventually lead to bizarre
results. Here is the reason that all tested and everything is contested, and sometimes a man who
obviously has the truth on their side, is castellated pointed to the convictions, and stand
with the arms of good sense and sanity to the attacks of a sophist who breaks through all the
cracks, and drained to through the most solid and compact as filtered through the pores. The same
superabundance ingenuity produces this defect, like people too remain agile and spirited hard
at a measured pace and serious.

§ VI.

Disadvantages of a perception too fast.

Speed ​​is precious quality
of perception, but should be warned against its effect regular, which
is inaccurate. The men were to be forwarded to him at Hampton by the
following Monday mid-day at the latest, and in the meantime the citizens were to take steps
to protect the king and his uncle, the duke, against conspiracy.(1305)

(M676)

Before these letters had been despatched the mayor and aldermen had been summoned by the Earl
of Warwick, who now took the lead against Somerset, to meet him and other lords of the council
at his house in Ely Place, Holborn. A meeting had accordingly taken place that Sunday morning,
when the state of affairs was discussed. After the meeting separated Warwick came to the city
and took up his residence in the house of Sir John York, one of the sheriffs, situate in Walbrook. In
both the fixation of the idea and the strength of feeling, are the two principles which give
to the will power and determination. The wind whirled through the pebbles are subject to same
laws as the mass of a planet.

§ LX.

Conclusion and summary.

Criterion is a means to know the truth. The truth is the reality of things. The truth in the understanding,
is to know things as they are. The truth will is to love them as expected, according to the
rules of sound morality. The truth in the conduct is to work for momentum of this goodwill.
Truth in a proposed order, proposed order is appropriate and because, according to circumstances.
Truth in media choice is to choose which conform to the moral, and most conducive to the end.
There are truths of many kinds, because there reality of many kinds. There are also many ways
of knowing the truth. Not everything have to look in the same way, but the way each one looks better.
Man have been given many powers. No one is useless. Neither is inherently bad. The sterility
or malice will come from us that misapply. Good logic should understand the whole man because
the truth is in contact with all the powers of man. Caring for one and not the other, is sometimes
sterilize the second, and harm the first. Man is a small world: its powers are too broad, it
needs harmony, and there is no harmony without judicious combination, and no wise combination
if everything is in place, if not exercised its functions or suspended in a timely manner. When
man action leaves some of its powers, is an instrument which lacks strings; when evil is an
instrument used intemperate. The reason is cold, but it is clear, give heat, and do not obscure
the clarity: the passions are blind, but give strength, give them direction, and take advantage
of its strength. Understanding subject to the truth and the will to put the moral passions of
understanding and submitted to the will, all illustrated, directed, raised by religion, behold
the whole man, man par excellence.

In it, the reason gives light, the imagination, he painted, the heart
quickens, religion divine.

FIN.

NOTES
[1] p. 7 .-- Verum est id quod est, says St. Augustine (Lib. 2. Solil.
Chap. 5). Indistinguishable between material truth and the truth of
understanding: first, that is the thing itself, may be called objective,
the second is the agreement of understanding with the thing formal
surname himself, or subjective. Gold is a metal, regardless of our
knowledge; here is an objective truth. It was subsequently arranged that
100 of the contingent should be horsemen.(1315) By the afternoon of Friday (11 Oct.) the men
and horsemen were ready. They mustered in Moorfields, whence they marched through Moorgate,
Coleman Street, Cheapside, and out by Newgate to Smithfield, with the Sword-bearer riding before
them as captain. At Smithfield they broke off, and were discharged from further service for
the time.(1316) There is no evidence to show that the force was ever called upon to proceed
to Windsor.

(M682) (M683)

The adhesion of the City to the lords had in the meanwhile added strength to their cause, many
who had at first held back now declaring themselves against Somerset. In this manner they were
joined by Lord Chancellor Rich, the Earl of Shrewsbury, Chief Justice Montague and others,
whose signatures appear to a proclamation issued on the 8th October setting forth "the verye
trowth of the Duke of Somersettes evell government and false and detestable procedynges."(1317)
By the end of the week (12 Oct.) the lords felt themselves strong enough to proceed in person
to Windsor, where on their knees they explained their conduct to the king, who received them
graciously and gave them hearty thanks. 

§ LII.

Feelings by themselves are bad rule of conduct.

The above prove impossible to direct the behavior of man by just a
feeling; and literature of our time, how little is concerned with
communicating ideas of reason and moral and apparently does not intend
to arouse feelings but forgets the nature of man, and causes a disease
of immense importance.

Giving the man at the mercy of one sentiment, is to throw a ship without a pilot in the middle
wave. This equates to proclaim the infallibility of the passions, to say: "Always work instinctively,
blindly obedient to every movement of your heart, "this amounts to
deprive man of his intellect and free will, to become a mere instrument
its sensitivity.

It has been said that great thoughts come from the heart, also could be added to the heart out big
bugs, big raves, big extravaganzas, major crimes.

Heart goes out everything is a superb harp bouncing all kinds of sounds from the horrendous
infernal din of the caves to the most delicate harmony of the celestial regions.

The man who has no other guide than his heart, is the plaything of a thousand different inclinations,
and often contradictory: a pen lijerísima through a countryside where prevailing winds, has
no more varied directions and irregular. Who is able to count or classify the myriad of feelings
that occur in our chest, in a very short time? Who does not has noted the astonishing ease with
which one goes from the fans live to work, to a almost insuperable repugnance? Who has not felt sympathy
or antipathy, to the simple presence a person without any reason that may be brought it, and
without the offer made hereinafter further grounds that impression? Who has not admired repeated
sometimes be transformed in a few moments, from the folding equilibrium of the boldness to timidity
or vice-versa, without there being any ostensible cause mediated? Who ignores the changes that
feelings suffer with age, with the difference of state, social status, family relationships,
health, climate, season, atmosphere? All as it affects our ideas, our senses, our body, in
any manner whatsoever, all adjust our feelings, and hence the amazing inconsistency that is evident
in the are abandoned to all the impulses of passion, hence the volatility
of the organizations too sensitive, if they have worked hard to master.

The

passions have been given to man as a means to awaken and put in motion as tools to serve your
actions, but not as directors of his spirit, not as guides for their behavior. It is sometimes
said that the heart does not deceive; terrible mistake! What our life is but a tissue of illusions
with which the heart deceives us? If ever we succeed, surrendering blindly to what he inspires us,
how many and how many us astray! Do you know why is attributed to heart the instinctive wisdom?
because it calls attention extremely one of his hits, when we know that there are so many its mistakes,
that we cause strange guess surprise to see him through his blindness, when there are so many times
you find folly. For this we recall his exceptional success, in favor of this will forgive all their
mistakes, and we honor him with foresight and tact can not own or possess.

The founding of the moral sentiment, is to destroy: arranging his conduct to the inspirations of feeling,
is doomed to not follow any set, and to have it very often immoral and fatal. The trend in literature
which is currently in vogue in France, which unfortunately also introduced in our Spain is deify the passions
and the passions deified are extravagance, immorality, corruption, crime.

§ LIII.

No sense impressions, but moral and right.

Human behavior and with respect to moral as to what is useful, should not govern impressions
but by immutable rules, morally, by the maxims of eternal truth as useful advice for the right reason.
The man is a God in whom all things are sanctified just to be in it, the impressions it receives,
are modifications of nature that do not alter the eternal laws, one thing just keeps justice,
for being nasty; something unfair, please him, no washing of injustice. The implacable enemy
avenging dagger plunges into the bowels of his victim, he feels in his heart a fierce pleasure,
and its action is no less a crime, the sister of charity that assists
the patient, which soothes and comforts, more than once suffered atrocious
tortures, but why not stop its action be heroically virtuous.

Apart from the moral, and attending to what is useful, things need to be treated under to what they
are, not what affect us, the truth is not essentially on our impressions but objects, when
we put those opposed to these, we go astray.

The world is not the real world of poets and novelists: it must be
considered and treated as is itself, not sentimental, not fantastic,
no dreamer, but positive, practical, prosaic.

§ LIV.

A good feeling, the exaggeration makes it bad.

Religion does not stifle the feelings, only moderates and directs, the caution does not reject
the help of warm passions, just beware of its dominance. Harmony has not to produce in humans with
the simultaneous development of the passions, but with its repression;
counterweight which are not only working to stop the other passions,
but principally reason and morality.

The same opposition of good to the evil inclinations, no longer healthy, when she presided as mistress
of reason, for the good inclinations not good but as reason directs and moderates: left to
themselves, are exaggerated, are bad.

A brave charge of a job is dangerous: the risk grows by the hour, to around their comrades are
falling: the enemy ever closer, there is scarcely hope sustained, and the order to withdraw
is not forthcoming. Discouragement comes a moment in the heart the brave, "to die without any fruit?
The duty of discipline and honor be extended " to a useless sacrifice?

Would not it be better to abandon the post, excuse in the eyes of the head imperative with the
need? "No, answers his generous heart, that is cowardice that cover with the name of prudence.
What would your colleagues, your boss, how do you know? "Ignominy or death? for death, without
hesitation, death. "

Can you blame the reflection that the brave officer has sought to sustain itself, against the temptation
to cowardice? This desire of honor, this horror to the ignominy of going through coward, has not
been in it a feeling? yes, but a feeling noble, generous, with which strength and influence has
strengthened against the wiles of the afraid, and has done his duty. That passion led to an
object as well, has produced excellent results, perhaps without it
there would have been achieved: in those critical moments, terrible,
that the noise the cannon, the shouts of the enemy nearby, and the
cries of dying comrades, began to enter the fear in her chest, the
whole reason one might have succumbed, but called to his aid to a
passion more powerful than the fear of death: the feeling of honor,
the shame of appearing cowardly, and reason has triumphed, the duty
has been fulfilled.

The order came to retreat, the officer meets his body, having lost in the post fatal to most
of his soldiers .-- I had it to V. dead, a jest told of his friends will not have V. Forgot the
parapet .-- The officer believes outraged calls to Heat a satisfaction and to mocking the few
hours the rash has ceased to exist. The same feeling a little before boost a heroic action, just
to cause a murder. The honor, shame to spend a coward, had held the brave, to the point of making
despise his life: honor, shame to spend a coward, have stained their hands with blood of a
reckless friend.

The passion directed by reason rose to heroism; delivered to the blind impetus has been degraded
to the crime.

The emulation is a powerful feeling, excellent preservative against laziness, against cowardice,
and against many passions oppose useful exercise of our faculties. Of It takes the teacher
to encourage students, it uses the parent to restrain the evil tendencies of some of their children,
it is worth a captain for obtain from their subordinates, perseverance, courage, heroic deeds.
The desire to advance in comply with the duty to carry out big business, despite not painful
fact from us all we could and we had the blush of seeing exceeded by those whom we could overcome
feelings are very fair, noble, excellent us forward on the right
path.

In them there is nothing reprehensible, they are the source of many virtuous actions, resolutions
sublime, amazing exploits.

But if that same feeling is exaggerated, aromatic nectar, sweet, comforting, it is converted
in deadly humor that flows from the mouth of a poisonous reptile, the emulation is envy. The
feeling in the background is the same, but has led to a too high point, the desire in advance
has become a burning thirst, grief of being exceeded, is already a grudge against which exceeds,
that there is no rivalry that brother very well with friendship more intimate, which sought
to soften the humiliation of the vanquished samples lavishing affection and sincere praise
for their efforts; than happy to have won the laurel, he hid not to hurt the pride of others, is
itself a real despair, there is anger not for lack of progress themselves, but by the view of
outsiders, there is real hate leads to that, there is a passionate
desire for lowering the merit of his works, is blasphemy, is the disdain
with which masks a bad compressed fury, there is a sardonic smile,
which scarcely enough to cover the torments of the soul.

Nothing more conformable to reason that feeling of self-worth, which is exalted holy when brutal
passions excite a shameful action, which recalls the holy man of their duties, and will not
consent to disgrace missing them the feeling that inspires you the attitude that you should
take, according to the position they occupy the feeling that fills majesty the king's countenance
and manners, which gives the face and manners of a pontiff holy anointing gravity and August, which shines
in the eyes of fire of a great captain and his FURTHER RESOLVED, bold, stunning, the feeling
that to the joy that does not let broken, or the gloom ignoble misfortune, that points to
the opportunity of a prudent silence, or suggests a decent word and sign, which separates the friendliness
of the trivial familiarity openness of abandonment, the naturalness of the rude manners of freedom,
that feeling in order to invigorate the man with no harden, not soften him relax, which makes
it flexible without inconsistency, and continuing without stubbornness. But that same feeling,
if not moderate and directed by reason, pride is the pride that swells the heart, upright forehead
gives to the countenance an offensive aspect and manners to an irritating affectation between ridiculous;
the pride that fades, making it impossible to advance, which raises obstacles to himself in
the execution, which inspires great evils, which causes the hatred
and contempt, makes unbearable.

What more reasonable sense that the desire to acquire or maintain the necessary equipment for
care own, and those whose care or charge a duty affection! He warns against extravagance, away
from the excesses of a licentious life preserves, inspires love to sobriety, temperance in all
desires, liking to work. But this feeling led to exaggeration, requires fasting that God does
not accept, cold in winter, heat in summer, poor health care, abandonment disease, mortified with
deprivation family, denies any favor to his friends, close your hand to the poor, cruelly hardening
the heart for all sorts of misfortunes, tormented with suspicions, fears, anxieties, prolongs
vigils, begets insomnia, pursues and agitated by the presence of
robbers spectra the brief moments of sleep, making it unable to get
break

The rich miser in the narrow bed And wake up sweating with
terror.

    
    

See how much truth because with them I said that the exaggeration of good feelings makes bad,
that feeling alone is a safer guide, and often dangerous. The reason is that must guide according
to the eternal principles of morality, the reason is who should be routed even in the field of
utility. For this man never takes too self-knowledge, no effort is of more moral approach to acquire
that and successful, who teaches us the practical truth, the truth must prevail to all acts
of our lives. Proceed to the adventure, to give blindly to the promptings of the heart, is exposed
to staining with immorality, and to commit a series of errors that ultimately lead to terrible misfortunes.

§
LV.

The science is very useful to practice.

In all matters relating to objects subject to necessary laws, it is clear that knowledge of these
has to be very useful, if not indispensable. Whose principle infer that run very badly in trying
to run, neglect science and only adhere to the practice. Science, if it is truly worthy of
the name, engages in the discovery of laws that govern nature, and its assistance is to be
of the utmost importance. We have is truly an irrefutable proof of what has happened in Europe three
centuries to the party. Since they were grown in mathematics and natural sciences, the progress
of the arts has been amazing. In this century are being made continuously ingenious discoveries And
what are these, but so many applications of science?

The routine which dismisses science, shows similar from foolish pride,
son ignorance. As he landed at the
Crane in the Vintry on his way back to the Tower that evening, and passed through Candlewick
(Cannon) Street, the people, we are told, cried "’God save him’ all the way as he went, thinkinge
that he had clerely bene quitt, but they were deceyved, but hoopinge he should have the kinge’s
pardon."(1348) According to another chronicler there were mingled cries of joy and sorrow as
he passed through London, some crying for joy that he was acquitted, whilst others (who were
better informed of the actual state of the case) lamented his conviction.(1349) His execution
took place on Tower Hill in January of the next year (1552).

(M695)

In the meanwhile the civic authorities had been energetically engaged in making regulations
for the hospital of the poor in West Smithfield, better known as St. Bartholomew’s Hospital,
which they had recently acquired, and in grappling with the poverty and sickness with which
they were surrounded. Instead of trusting to the charity of those attending the parish churches
on Sunday for raising money for the poor, the Common Council, in September, 1547, resorted
to the less precarious method of levying on every inhabitant of the city one half of a fifteenth
for the maintenance of the poor of the hospital.(1350) The voluntary system, however, was not
wholly abolished. In the following April (1548) a brotherhood for the relief of the poor had
been established, to which the mayor (Sir John Gresham) and most of the aldermen belonged,
each agreeing to subscribe a yearly sum varying from half a mark to a mark.(1351) In September
governors were appointed of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital—four aldermen and eight commoners(1352)—and
in the following December the Common Council passed an Act for the payment of 500 marks a year
to the hospital, the sum being levied on the livery companies.(1353)

(M696)

In 1551 the City succeeded in obtaining another hospital. This was the hospital in Southwark
originally dedicated to Thomas Becket, but whose patron saint was, after the Reformation, changed
to St. Thomas the Apostle. Negotiations were opened in February with the lord chancellor for
the purchase of this hospital.(1354) They proceeded so favourably that by the 12th August the
hospital and church and part of their endowment were conveyed to the City by deed, whilst the
rest of the endowment was transferred by another deed on the following day.(1355) The purchase-money
amounted to nearly £2,500.

(M697)

Having thus cared for the sick and the poor, the civic authorities next turned their attention
to the conversion of a portion of the ground and buildings of the dissolved monastery of the
Grey Friars into a hospital for the reception and education of fatherless and helpless children.
In 1552 Sir Richard Dobbs(1356) was mayor. He took an active part in the charitable work that
was then being carried on in the city, and his conduct so won the heart of Ridley that the
bishop wrote from prison shortly before his death commending him in the highest possible terms:—"O
Dobbs, Dobbs, alderman and knight, thou in thy year did’st win my heart for evermore, for that
honourable act, that most blessed work of God, of the erection and setting up of Christ’s Holy
Hospitals, and truly religious houses which by thee and through thee were begun." In July the
work of adapting the old buildings, rather than erecting new, was commenced, and in a few months
the premises were sufficiently forward to admit of the reception of nearly 400 children. The
charity was aided by the king’s bestowal of the linen vestures used in the city prior to the
Reformation, and at that time seized by the commissioners.(1357) Just as the close of the reign
of Henry VIII had witnessed the reopening of the church of the Grey Friars under the name of
Christchurch, and the celebration of the mass once more within its walls, so now the close
of his son’s short reign witnessed the restoration of their house and buildings, and their
conversion, in the cause of education and charity, into Christ’s Hospital. The path is dark because it is in the bowels of the earth, but I precedes a very practical
guide, holding in his hand a torch that glows with radiant light.

§ IV.

The perfection of the profession depends on the perfection with known objects in them.

The perfect knowledge of things in the scientific order, is the truly wise; practical in order for
the settlement of the conduct in the affairs of life, as the wise; in managing the affairs of state,
form the great politicians, and in all professions, is each one more or less advantaged, to greater
or lesser proportion of object knowledge to treat or manage. But this knowledge must be practical,
it must also embrace the details of execution, which are small truths, so to speak, of which there
can be discounted if you want to achieve the object. These are many small truths in all professions;
It suffices to convince, to hear those who are concerned even in most simple trades. What is
it the best farmer? The most familiar qualities of the terrain, climate, seeds and plants that
you know what the best methods and instruments of husbandry, and best guesses on the opportunity
to use them in a word, who knows the media More to the point to make the land produce low cost,
very, soon and good. The Farmers will be better because you know more truths relating to the
practice of his profession. What is the best carpenter? The best known of the nature and qualities
of wood, particular mode of working, and the art of arranging them in the most suitable to use
they are intended. That is, the best carpenter is one who knows more truths about art. What
will be the best trader? The best known genera of traffic, points where it is more advantageous
to bring them, means more to the point to lead without deterioration, with alacrity and cheapness,
markets convenient to expend more quickly and gain: ie one that holds more truths about the objects
of trade, who knows further the reality of things in which they are
responsible.

§ V.

Everyone's interest to think well.

Then flings himself to see that the art of thinking it does not matter only to philosophers
but also simplest to the nations. The understanding is a precious gift bestowed upon us by
the Creator, is the light that is given us to guide our actions, and clear is that one of the
first must take care to be well groomed man is in this light.

If she misses we were plunged into darkness, we grope, and for this
reason we must not let it be off.

We should not have the understanding of inaction, in danger of being
put obtuse stupid, and on the other hand, when we intend to exercise
and Aviva, its light should is good for us not to dazzle, well-run
so we are not lost.

§ VI.

How to teach them to think well.

The art of thinking well do not learn both rules and models. For those who insist in teaching
force requirements and analytical observations, they could compare with who employ a similar
method to teach children to speak or walk. Why not condemn all the rules, but they hold to be
taken with more parsimony, less pretentious philosophical, and especially
in a simple, practical, next to the rule by example.

A child mispronounced certain words, to correct what they see their
parents or teachers?

The pronounce them well and then make the child say them: "Hear well
as I I mean, to see you now, do not put your lips look this way, do
not do much effort with the tongue "and other things along those lines.

Here is the precept by example, the rule and how to practice [1].

CHAPTER II.

CARE.

There are ways that lead to knowledge of the truth, and obstacles that prevent us from to him, teach
employees first, and to remove the latter is the subject of the art of thinking well.

§ I.

Definition of care. Their need.

Attention is the application of the mind to an object. The first way to think is to meet well.
The ax will not cut unless it is applied to the tree, sickle mowing if it is not applied to
the stem. Sometimes objects are offered without that meets the spirit, and happen to see without
looking, and hear without listening, but the knowledge acquired in this way is always litgh
superficial, often inaccurate, or completely wrong. Without the attention we are distracted, our
spirit is, so to speak, elsewhere, and therefore do not see what
is shown.

It is of utmost importance to acquire a habit of attending to what
is studied or done, because, although there has been, what we often
lack is the ability to understand what we see, read or hear, but the
application of encouragement to those concerned.

An event we are told, but we hear the narrative with loose attention, alternating thousand comments
and questions, hands or looking at objects that distract us, of what is circumstances that are
beyond us interesting, that we overlook essentials, and trying to
tell others, or meditated upon ourselves to form opinion, presents
the fact distorted, incomplete, and so fall into errors that result
from lack capacity, but not paying due attention to the narrator.

§ II.

Advantages and disadvantages of their care need.

A friendly spirit multiplied their forces in an incredible way, so
use the time treasuring always flow of ideas more clearly perceived
and accuracy, and finally remembers more easily, owing to the continuous
attention that these are placed naturally in the head in an orderly
manner.

Those who do not attend but loose, walk their understanding of different places to one time, here
they receive an impression, there is quite another, build a hundred things unrelated that far
from helping each other for clarification and retention, confused, muddled and erased each other. No
reading, no conversation, no show, however insignificant they may seem, can instruct us not
into something. Attention to the precious notice and collect, with the distraction we may drop your
pearls and gold thing trivial.

§ III.

How should the attention. Dazed and withdrawn.

Some believe that such fatigue much attention, but they are wrong. When I talk about attention I
do not mean that fixity of spirit that is nailed, so to speak, on objects, but a soft and restful
application that allows everything to take over, leaving however
with the agility to move effortlessly from one occupation to another.

This attention is not incompatible with either the same fun and recreation, it is clear that
the spread mood is not not think, but do not address things work, and to surrender to more
flat and Thin.

The sage who interrupted his studies out to deep solace time with
the amenity of the countryside, no fatigue, distracted earlier when
in the state of the harvest, to the labors of the farmers, the murmur
of streams, or the singing of birds.

So far I consider attention as severe and continuous abstraction, that quite the opposite story
in the number of distracted, not only to the giddy but also to the self-absorbed. Those are
spilled on the outside, they wander through the dark regions within; each other lack the appropriate
attention, which is what is used in what concerned.

The friendly man has the advantage of being more urban and cutting, because the self-esteem else
is hurt, if they notice we are not attending to what they say. Is remarkable the civility or lack
thereof surname is also attention or inattention.

§ IV.

Interruptions.

You are only a few cases, even serious research, so deep that require
attention that can not be interrupted without serious damage.

Some people complain bitterly if a visit to untimely, or an unexpected noise, cut them, as they
say, the thread of discourse such heads resemble the daguerreotype, in which the slightest movement
of the object, or the interposition of another strange enough to ruin the portrait or landscape.
In some is perhaps a natural defect in others a conceited affectation for taking the thinker, and
on many non-habit of concentrating. Since it is necessary to get used to having strong and flexible
attention to a time, and ensure the formation of our concepts not resemble the pictures to
the daguerreotype, but of common, if the painter is interrupted, suspended its work, and they
resumed is not squandered his work, if a body makes unwelcome shadow, stirring, let it all cured
[2].

CHAPTER III.

Career choice.

§ I.

Vague meaning of the word talent.

Everyone must engage in the profession for which you feel more fitness.

I judge a lot importance of this rule, and coat the deep conviction
that his forgetfulness might be that no have much more advanced science
and the arts.

The word talent expressed for some absolute capacity, mistakenly
believing that he is endowed with happy dispositions for one thing
it is equally for all.

Nothing more false, a man can be outstanding, extraordinary, monstrous capacity for one class,
and be very medium and even denied with respect to others. Napoleon and Descartes are two geniuses,
and yet are nothing like. The genius of the war had not understood the genius of philosophy,
and if they had talked a while, it is likely that both would have been dissatisfied, Napoleon would
not have exempted between the dismissive air that surname ideologues.

I could write a work of comparison talent, expressing the profound differences that mediate
even among the most extraordinary. But the experience of every day we manifest this truth
so palpable.

Men that run we hear and act on a matter with admirable success, while in another they are
very vulgar, and even clumsy and inattentive. Few will reach a capacity equal to all, and perhaps
we could say that no, because the observation shows that there are provisions that become pregnant,
and damaged another.

Generalist who has the talent is not easy holding the meticulous accuracy, the poet who lives
in beautiful and sublime inspirations, not out of work shall conform to the rhythmic regular
geometric studies.

§ II.

Instinct tells us the race that best fits us.

The Creator, which distributes the power to men in different degrees, they reported a wonderful instinct
that shows your destination: the inclinations towards durable and constant an occupation, is
pretty sure sign that we are born with an aptitude for it, as well as the diversion and disgust
can not be overcome easily, it is a sign that the Author of nature has given us not happy
dispositions for what we dislike. Foods suit us well suited to the palate and nose, not tainted
by bad habits or altered sick, and the taste and smell warn us ungrateful what are the food
and drink which by its corruption and other qualities, could dañarmos. God has not taken care
less the soul from the body.

Parents, teachers, principals of education and teaching should fix a lot of attention at this
point, to forestall the loss of a talented, well employee, may give the most precious fruits,
and avoid eating right is not a chore for which there has been born.

The same question has to deal also in this test, the twelve year old boy has at reflection common
enough to notice what is inclined to, what it costs less work, what
are the studies being conducted more easily, what are the tasks that
experiences more ingenuity and skill.

§ III.

Experiment to discern the unique talents of each child.

It would be desirable to offer the viewer of children very different
objects, leading to visit places where the particular disposition
of each one could be excited the presence of what best suits you.

Then, leaving them abandoned to his instincts, would form an intelligent observer of course ratings.
Keep the machine a clock in sight of a reunion of children from ten to twelve years, and it is
certain that if including any mechanical genius is very advantaged, will be released since then
by the curiosity to examine, for the discretion of the questions,
and ease in understanding construction is contemplated.

Needles a bit poetic, and if there are among them some Garcilaso, Lope de Vega, Ercilla, Calderon
or Melendez, will see their eyes sparkle, you will know your heart
beats, his mind is agitated, his fantasy becomes inflamed under an
impression that he does not understand.

Beware trocar papers: two special children is very possible you to
form two common men.

The swallow and the eagle is distinguished by its strength and lijereza
wings, and yet ever the eagle could fly to the manner of a swallow,
and this copy the queen of birds.

The attempt diu quid ferre recusent, Valeant humeri quid, that Horacio
instilled writers, can also be applied to those who try to choose
a profession either [3].

CHAPTER IV.

ISSUES OF POSSIBILITY.

§ I.

A classification of the acts of our understanding, and the issues before it can offer.

For clarity, we divide the actions of our understanding in two classes: speculative and practical.
Speculative name is limited to those who know, and studies which lead us to act.

When we try just to know something, we can offer the following questions: 1 ª. if possible or
not, 2 ª. if it exists or not, 3 ª. what is its nature, what its
properties and relationships.

The rules being taken to address these three questions correctly, include Regarding all the speculation.

If
we are to act, it is clear that we always try to get some order, of which arise following issues:
1 ª. what is the end, 2 ª. what is the best way to reach you.

I urge the reader to fix the attention on the divisions that precede
and seek retain in memory, as well as facilitating the understanding
of what I have to say will serve you very much to proceed with the
method in all his thoughts.

§ II.

Ideas of possibility and impossibility. Their rankings.

Possibility. The idea expressed by this word is correlative to impossible,
because that one necessarily involves the denial of the other.

The words possibility and impossibility, expressed ideas very different, according to refer
to the things themselves, or to the power of a cause that may occur. However, these ideas have
very intimate relationships, as we shall see. When considering the possibility or impossible,
only with respect to a being, irrespective of any cause, are called intrinsic; and when caring for a cause,
are called extrinsic. Despite the apparent simplicity and clarity of this division, I see that
it is impossible to form full concept of what it means, to have descended to the different classifications
will set out in the following paragraphs.

At first glance one may wonder who first explain the impossibility
of possibility; But a little reflection, we note that this method
is very logical.

The word impossible, though it sounds negative, but several times
expressed an idea to our understanding is presented as positive: that
is, the reluctance of the objects, a kind of exclusion, of opposition,
struggle, so to speak, so that in dying for this reluctance, and the
ability to conceive.

Born here the expressions of "this is very possible, for nothing opposes it, "" possible, as
there is no contradiction. "Since, in knowing what is impossible, we know what is the possibility,
and vice-versa.

Some distinguish three kinds of impossibility: metaphysical, physical and moral. I will adopt
this division, but adding one member, who will be the impossibility of common sense. Instead
will be the reason that I founded. They also warn that it may be better to call failure absolute
to the metaphysical to the physical natural, and ordinary morality.

§ III.

What is the absolute or metaphysical impossibility.

The absolute or metaphysical impossibility, is that based on the very
essence of things or in other words, it is absolutely impossible that
which, if any, would bring the absurd that something serious and not
serious at the same moment.

A circle is an impossible triangle absolute because outside circle and not a circle, triangle and no
triangle. Five equal to seven, it is impossible all because the five would be five, not five,
and seven would be seven, not seven. A vice is an absolute virtuoso impossible, because the service
outside and not vice at the same moment.

§ IV.

The absolute inability and divine omnipotence.

What is absolutely impossible does not exist in any conceivable assumption, therefore even when
we say that God is almighty, we understand that you can make absurd. That world exists and there
at the same moment, that God is and is not, that blasphemy is a laudable act, and other delusions
by this wording, it is clear that not fall under the action of omnipotence; and, as St. Thomas
observes wisely, rather it should be said that these things can not be done, not that God can
not do them. It follows that the intrinsic impossibility absolute extrinsic brings too absolute impossibility:
namely, that no cause may occur which in itself is absolutely impossible.

§ V.

Absolutely impossible, and dogmas.
To say that one thing is absolutely impossible we must have very
clear ideas end that is repugnant, otherwise there is risk of surname
it really absurd it is not. I make this warning to point out the injustice
of condemning some mysteries of our faith, declaring absolutely impossible.
The dogma of the Trinity and the Incarnation are certainly incomprehensible
to the weak man, but not absurd. How can a Triune God, one nature
and three persons other than each other, identical with nature? I
do not know, but I have no right to infer that this is contradictory.
Do I understand by chance what is this nature, what are these people
that I speak? No: Then when I want to judge whether what they say
is impossible or not, failure of unknown objects. What we know of
the mysteries of divinity? The Lord has spoken a few words mysterious
to exercise our obedience, and humble our pride, but did not want
lifting the thick veil that separates this mortal life in the ocean
of truth and light.

§ VI.

Idea of ​​natural or physical impossibility.
Natural or physical inability, is that a fact is beyond the laws
of nature. It is naturally impossible that a stone dropped in the
air does not fall to the ground, the water left to itself does not
get to the level that a body immersed in a fluid, less serious not
sink, that the stars stand in their careers, because the laws of nature
prescribed otherwise. God has established these laws, adjourn, and
the man. What is naturally impossible, it is for the creature, not
God.

§ VII.

Way to judge the natural impossibility.

When we say
that an event is naturally impossible? On being assured that There
is a law that is opposed to the realization of this fact, and that
such opposition is not destroyed or neutralized by another law of
nature. It is a law of nature that man's body as heavier than air,
falls to the ground in support lacking, but there is another law that
a set of bodies joined together, it is specifically less severe than
that in which sinks, is sustained and to be lifted, even if one of
them is more serious than fluid, then joined the human body to a hot
air balloon art provided with convenient can be traced in the air,
and this phenomenon will be done up to the laws of nature. The smallness
of certain insects does not allow his image is painted on our retina
of a appreciably, but laws that are subject to make light through
a glass can change the direction of its rays as appropriate, to come
out of a very small object were scattered on reaching the retina,
and form an image there large and so is not naturally impossible that
with the help of a microscope, the imperceptible to the naked eye
we are present with large dimensions. The money
was raised by contributions from the different livery companies, the Merchant Taylors, the
Mercers, the Grocers, the Drapers, the Fishmongers, the Goldsmiths, and the Haberdashers being
called upon to subscribe the sum of £100 respectively, whilst the rest of the companies paid
sums varying from £80 to forty shillings.(1404) No sooner had the citizens satisfied the queen
in this respect than they were called upon to send 200 soldiers to Gillingham, in Kent, there
to be embarked for foreign service under the Lord Admiral. The City again demurred, and asked
to be excused the necessity of forwarding the men beyond Billingsgate or the Tower Wharf and
also of providing them with accoutrements. It was to no purpose, both men and accoutrements
had to be found.(1405) On the 10th April the chamberlain received orders to see that the city’s
artillery was in readiness and to increase the store of gunpowder.(1406) Wyatt was to be executed
the next day, and these orders were probably given in anticipation of a disturbance.

(M720)

That Wyatt still had friends in the city is shown by the bold attitude taken up by the jury
in the trial (17 April) of one of his accomplices, Nicholas Throckmorton, against whom they
brought in a verdict of not guilty.(1407) For this they were bound over to appear before the
Star Chamber. Four of the twelve made submission; the rest, among whom were Thomas Whetstone,
a haberdasher, and Emanuel Lucar, a merchant tailor, were committed some to the Tower and the
rest to the Fleet, where they remained for six months. A cavil and quibble force reaches the point of
hallucinating himself, and what initially was a vague thought, without stability and consistency, it
becomes incontrovertible truth. Embarazarian exceptions too; the easiest thing is to build
an universal proposition: behold the axiom. Come after numerous cases not included in it does not
matter: this object is conceived in terms general and unclear or unintelligible, to be interpreted
in a thousand different ways suffer on your screen all the exceptions you want without losing
any of its prestigious reputation. Meanwhile, the axiom serves admirably to build an extravagant reasoning,
giving weight to an absurd trial, or banish a hard constraints: they are offered to the spirit
doubts about the truth of what you stand for, when it is feared that the building does not come to
the floor with thunderous ruin himself is said the spirit, "No, no danger, the foundation is
solid; is an axiom and an axiom is a principle of eternal truth. "

To deserve the name, it is necessary that the proposition is so obvious to the spirit, as what
are the objects we look eye present, due to distance, and in the middle of the day. In not
entirely convinced leaving the understanding from that is offered, and once understood the meaning
of the terms in which it is stated, should not be admitted to this class. Flawed ideas by an axiom
false, sort are all very different things than they are in themselves, and errors are much
more dangerous, as the most deceitful lies in understanding security.

§ III.

Propositions are too general.

If we were known the essence of things, we could establish with respect to it proposals universal,
without any kind of exception, because the essence remains the same in all beings of the same
species, it is clear that what the one afirmásemos, would be equally applicable them all. But
as with respect to said essentially know little, and imperfectly, and often nothing is so common
there that can not speak of beings, but relation to the properties that are within our reach, and
often do not discern if they are rooted in the essence of the thing, or if they are purely accidental.
Tenders general suffer from this defect, because they express what we conceive and judge, can
not be extended but to what our spirit is known. Hence it is suffering thousand exceptions that
did not foresee, and perhaps find that it had made a rule that was
nothing more than the exception.

This happens even if a lot of work from one who sets general proposition,
what will be, if we look at the lijereza with which they are often
formed and issue?

§ IV.

Inaccurate definitions.

These can be said about the same as the axioms that serve as direct light perception and opinion,
and point of support to strengthen the intellect. It's about how difficult a good definition,
and in many cases impossible. The reason is obvious: the definition explains the essence of
the thing defined, and how do you explain what is unknown? Despite size disadvantage in all
sciences there a multitude of definitions that go currency which good law, and although it often
happens that authors rise against the definitions of others, they in turn take care of replacing
them with yours, that make move throughout the work by taking them based on their speeches.
If the definition is to be the explanation of the essence of the thing, and knowing this essence
is so difficult business, Why is being defined in such a hurry?

The target of the investigations is the knowledge the nature of beings, for the proposition
that explains this, it is that the definition, should be the last to issue the author. In the definition
is the equations with solving the riddle, and the resolution of the problems this equation is
the latest.

What we can clearly define it as purely conventional, because the nature of being conventional
is that which we give ourselves for the reasons that seem good. Thus, since it is not possible
in many cases set the thing, at least we should fix it what we mean when we talk about it,
or in other words, we should define the word with which we intend to express the thing. I do
not know what the sun does not know its nature; and therefore its
definition if you ask me, I can not give it.

But I know what I mean when I say the word sun, so be easy for me
to explain what she meant.

What is the sun? I do not know. V. What do the word sun?

The star whose presence brings day, and whose disappearance occurs at night. This naturally
leads me to misspelled words defined.

§ V.

Ill-defined words. Examination of the word equality.

In appearance nothing easier than to define a word, because it is very natural that whoever
employee knows what is said, and therefore can explain it. But experience shows If not, and very
few able to fix the meaning of the voices they use. Such stems from the confusion that reigns in
the ideas, and in turn helps to increase it. You can listen to each passing a heated dispute
in which the opponents expressed perhaps uncommon wit: let them give a hundred laps in order,
that are undertaken and rejected a thousand times, as enemies in a bloody battle, so if you
want you go through a mediator, and make palpable unreason of both, take the word that expresses
the capital object of the question, and ask each one, what means V. why? What gives meaning V.
to this word? I often pass The two adversaries will not know what to answer you, or pronouncing
certain expressions vague, disjointed, stating it clearly that you have left them suddenly not waited
for him flank attack, being perhaps the first time this deal, badly his will, to realize to themselves
the meaning of a word in fifteen minutes have used hundreds of times, and they were doing endless
applications.

But suppose this does not happen, and that each easily and quickly gives the explanation requested:
be sure you do not accept the definition of the other, and that the unconformity dealt with
before or seemed to be about the merits of the question, suddenly be moved to new ground engaging
dispute over the meaning of the word.

I have said or seemed to relate, because although it has been observed the turn of the discussion,
it will have missed seeing that under the name of the thing was hiding with Often the meaning of
the word.

There are certain voices that express a general idea, applicable to many different objects and senses
but several seem invented on purpose to confuse. All employed, all to realize themselves what they
mean, but everyone to his way, resulting a racket that hurts the good thinkers.

"Equality of men, said one speaker, is a law established by God himself. We are all born crying,
we all die sigh nature does not differentiate between poor and wealthy commoners and nobles,
and the religion teaches that all have the same origin and same fate. Equality is the work
of God, the inequality is man, only evil have been introduced in
the world that these terrible inequalities suffered by the human race;
only ignorance, and lack of sense of self-worth have been tolerated.

" Those words do not sound bad to the ear of pride and can not be
denied that in them something specious.

The man says capital errors and glaring truths, confuses those with
them; and seductive for the unwary speech, presented before the eyes
of a good thinker, a cacophony ridiculous.

What is the cause?

Take the word equality in very different ways, the application to
objects as far away as heaven and earth, and passed to a general deduction,
in whole security, as if without risk of mistake.

Do we want to reduce to powder as just said? Here's how we do it.

- What do V. for equality?

- Equality, equality .... is clear what it means.

- However, there will be more than V. tell us.

- Equality is that
one is neither more nor less than the other.

- But you see V. this
may be in very many ways, for two men six feet height are equal in
it, but it will be possible to be very unequal in others, for example,
if one is paunchy, as the governor of the island of Barataria, and
other dry of meat like Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance.

You two men may be equal or unequal in knowledge, virtue, nobility,
and a million other things, that we will be well before reach agreement
on the meaning that gives V. to the word equality.

- I speak of equality
of nature, this equality is established by the same breeder, whose
laws are powerless against men.

- This is not to V. say more but
that by nature all are equal ....

- Right.

- I, but I see that nature
does to a robust, to others weak, some beautiful, ugly to others,
to a flexible, dull to others, to wit a clear, silly to others, to
gives a peaceful inclinations, violent to others, to some .... but
it would never end if you wanted to list the inequalities that come
from nature itself.

Where is the natural equal to V. speaks?

- But these inequalities
do not take their equal rights ....

- Ignoring that V. has changed
completely since the state of the question, leaving or severely restrict
equality of nature, there are also disadvantages in that equality
rights.

Does it seem to V. if the child a few years is entitled to fight and punish his father?

- V. fakes absurd ....

- No sir, this and this requires nothing less than equal rights, if
not so be V. tell us what rights speech, which is meant equality and
what not.

- Well now clear is that we try to social equality.

-
There was V. it only, it is recent speech he spoke V. general and
in the most absolute, only cast a trench retreats V. in the other.

But going to social equality. This means that in society we must
all be equal.

Now I ask, what? What authority? Then there will be no government possible. What assets? Congratulations;
Leave aside justice and do the deal: after one hour, two players alijerado be one of the other pocket,
and will be uneven and, after a few days the industry will increase its capital, the slothful
will have consumed a portion of what received, and will fall in inequality.

Become a thousand times the cast, and a thousand times unevenly fortunes.

"In consideration? but do appreciate V. honored as both men the rascal? "Shall be deposited in
the trust as at that? Do you take care of themselves Metternich to
businesses that patan rudest?

And even when quiesese, could they all do it all?

- This is impossible, but it is not impossible is equality before the law.

- New withdrawn, new trench, here we go. The law says that contrary to suffer the penalty a thousand
real and Insolvency ten days in jail. The rich pay a thousand real and laughs at his crime, the
poor do not have a penny, to atone for his lack of bars inside. Where is equality before the
law?

- Well, I take away these things, and would establish penalties so that no outcome is never inequality.

-
But then would disappear fines, excise not inconsiderable budget gaps and relief of rulers.
You'll demonstrate to V. it is not possible in any assumption this
alleged equality.

Demos for a transgression that is marked is worth ten thousand real,
two men have engaged in it, and both have to pay, but one is wealthy
banker, the other a modest craftsman.

The banker makes fun of the ten thousand pieces, the artisan is ruined. Is it the same sentence?

-
Certainly not, but how would you have remedy?

- No way, and this is what I want to persuade you to V. that inequality
is a thing irremediable.

Demos that corporal punishment is, find the same inequality. The prison, exposure to public shame,
are penalties that the man void of education, and feeling of dignity,
suffering with tired indifference, but a criminal who belongs to a
certain Category prefer death a thousand times.

The punishment should be appreciated, not by what is in itself but for the harm caused to the patient
and the impression that affects you, because otherwise disappearance of the two ends of punishment:
the atonement and punishment. Then, the same penalty applied to criminals of different kinds,
but not equality in name, to pose monstrous inequality. Confess to V. that these problems are far
from hopeless, but we recognize these sad needs, and let us ponder equality impossible.

The definition of a word, and discern the different applications that
it could done, has brought us the advantage of reducing to nothing
a specious sophistry, and to demonstrate until the last evidence that
he or shown pompous nonsense, or not told us anything we did not know
in advance, as there is much discovery to announce that we are all
born and die the same way.

§ VI.

Free assumptions. The headlong.

In the absence of a general principle we sometimes an event that has no more truth and certainty
from which we grant. Where many systems to explain the phenomena of nature? In a gratuitous assumption
that the inventor of the system had to settle as well stone of the building. The greatest talents are
always exposed to this danger who strive to explain a phenomenon,
lack of positive data on its nature and origin.

An effect may have come from a myriad of causes, but not found Just knowing the truth that was
able to proceed, you must demonstrate that it has proceeded. If I hypothesis satisfactorily
explains a phenomenon I have in sight, I can admire it wit who invented it, but soon I shall
advance to the knowledge of the reality of things.

This habit of giving effect to a possible cause, saving the distance
from the possibility to reality, is more common than you think, especially
when the reasoner can draw on the coexistence or succession of events
that aims to link.

Sometimes, even awaiting to know if the fact that there really is
designated cause, enough to have been exist, and that its existence
could have the effect of which is intended to reason.

It has been found at the bottom of a cliff, the body of an acquaintance, the signals of the
victim clearly expressed that died falling down. Three assumptions can excogitating to account
for the catastrophe, a fall, a suicide, a murder. In all these cases, the effect is the same,
and in the absence of data can not be said to explain a more successfully than the other. Many
viewers are watching the disastrous scene; All are eager to discover the cause, cause that is
present the slightest hint, of course you will see born in abundance conjecture, and you will
hear the expressions "is true, so be it can not be otherwise .... as if he were watching ...
no witnesses, can not be proved at trial, but it is certainly not it.

"

And what are the signs? Some hours before finding the body, the unhappy was heading towards the
fatal spot, and there are some who saw I was reading some papers, which stopped from time
to time, and showed signs of restlessness.

For the rest is well known that the latter days had past troubles, and businesses from home were
very badly. All neighborhood saw in his face signs of grief and uneasiness. Case closed, this man has
committed suicide. Murder can not be, I was so close to home .... also that a murder not committed
in this way .... A calamity is impossible, because he knew very well the ground; and on the
other hand, was not precipitated nor men who walked with his eyes distracted. As the poor man was
harassed by his creditors, mail today due to receive a letter pressing and there will be more
able to resist.

- Come on, come on, answer as many, something clear and has V. reason,
is now fully Mail day ....

Comes the judge and the effect of instructing
the first steps, the full portfolio of the deceased.

- Two letters.

-
Did not I tell you ?.... the mail today !....

- The one is N. its
correspondent in the plaza N.

- Come, overall there had his trouble.

-
Says: "Sir, at this point I just got out of the proverbial reunion.

No missing remittent, but ultimately supported the NN friends, I got everyone entered in reason. For
now you can V. live in peace, and if your son V. I had the good fortune to restore therefore
any American business, these people will be provided to all, and keep V. his fortune and credit.
The details for the email immediately, but I believed that it should not differ a moment to
tell V. as satisfying news. Meanwhile, etc., Etc. "There is no reason Why kill yourself.

- The other ?....

- It is your son ....

- Bad news must bring ....

- Says: "My dear father, I have come to time, and a few hours of my
landing was broken trap

.
 The City was to take especial care that the contingent should be chosen
from the handsomest and best picked men, and superior to those last sent.(1468) The force mustered
at the Leadenhall, the 24th January, for inspection by the mayor, and at five o’clock in the
evening were delivered over to the captains for shipment.(1469) Three days later the lords
of the council instructed the mayor to make a return of the number of foreigners residing still
within the city, and to make proclamation on the next market day that it should be lawful thenceforth
for anyone to seize the persons of Frenchmen who had not avoided the city pursuant to a previous
order, and to confiscate their goods and chattels to his own proper use.(1470)

(M736)

Mary succeeded in March in raising a loan in the city of £20,000 (she had asked for 100,000
marks or £75,000(1471)) on the security of the crown lands. The loan bore interest at the rate
of twelve per cent., and a special dispensation was granted to avoid the penalties of the Usury
Act.(1472) The money was raised by assessment on the livery companies. On the 16th March the
Court of Aldermen summoned the wardens of the twelve principal companies to attend at the Guildhall
at eight o’clock the next morning, in order that they might learn how much the lords of the
council had "*tottyd*" against each of them towards the loan. The smaller companies were to
attend in the afternoon of the same day in order to be informed of the sums the Court of Aldermen
deemed fit that each should contribute to assist their wealthier brethren. The total amount
subscribed by the greater companies was £16,983 6s. 8d., of which the Mercers contributed £3,275.
The lesser companies subscribed £1,310, in sums varying from £30 to £500.(1473)

(M737)

It is probable that Mary wanted this loan to enable her to prosecute the war. The country was
not disposed, however, to assist her in this direction. The people were afraid of rendering
Philip too powerful. Disappointed both in her public and domestic life, she fell a victim to
dropsy and died on the 17th November—"wondering why all that she had done, as she believed
on God’s behalf, had been followed by failure on every side—by the desertion of her husband,
and the hatred of her subjects." The loss of Calais so much affected her that she declared
that the name of the town would be found impressed upon her heart after death. On the occasion
of her funeral the City put in its customary claim for black livery cloth, but more than one
application had to be made before the cloth was forthcoming.(1474)

CHAPTER XVII.

(M738)

The accession of Elizabeth, after the gloomy reign of her sister, was welcomed by none more
joyfully than by the citizens of London, who continued to commemorate the day with bonfires
and general rejoicing long after the queen had been laid in her grave.(1475) When news was
brought of her sister’s death Elizabeth was at Hatfield. Within a week she removed to London
and took up her abode at the Charterhouse. The sheriffs went out to meet her as far as the
boundary of the county of Middlesex, the limit of their jurisdiction, dressed in coats of velvet,
with their chains about their necks and white rods in their hands. Having first kissed their
rods, they handed them to the queen, who immediately returned them, and the sheriffs thereupon
joined the gentlemen of the cavalcade and rode before her majesty until they met Sir Thomas
Leigh,(1476) the mayor, and his brethren the aldermen. The sheriffs then fell back and took
their places among the aldermen.(1477) From the Charterhouse she removed after a stay of a
few days to the Tower, amid the blare of trumpets, the singing of children and the firing of
ordnance.

(M739)

The Court of Common Council (21 Nov.) agreed to levy two fifteenths on the inhabitants of the
city for the customary present to be given the new queen on her passing through the city to
her coronation, which was to take place on the 15th January following, as well as for defraying
the costs of pageants on the occasion.(1478) Committees were appointed to see that the several
conduits, the Standard and Cross in Cheap, and other parts of the city were seemly trimmed
and decked with pageants, fine paintings and rich cloth of Arras, silver and gold, as at the
coronation of Queen Mary, and better still if it conveniently could be done.(1479) Among those
appointed to devise pageants for the occasion and to act as masters of the ceremony was Richard
Grafton, the printer.(1480) Eight commoners were appointed by the Court of Aldermen (17 Dec.)
to attend upon the chief butler of England at the cupboard at the coronation banquet.(1481)

(M740)

A curious instance of a strike among painters is recorded at this time. The painters of the
city, we are told, utterly refused to fresh paint and trim the great conduit in Cheap for the
coronation for the sum of twenty marks. This being the case, the surveyors of the city were
instructed to cause the same to be covered with cloth of Arras having escutcheons of the queen’s
Arms finely made and set therein, and the wardens of the Painters’ Company were called upon
to render assistance with advice and men for reasonable remuneration.(1482)

(M741)

The main object which Elizabeth kept before her eyes, from first to last, was the preservation
of peace—peace within the Church and without. Her natural inclination was towards the more
ornate ritual of the Roman Church, but the necessity she was under of gaining the support of
the Protestants, whom even the fires of Smithfield had failed to suppress, inspired restraint.
All her actions were marked with caution and deliberation. From the day of her accession religious
persecution in its worst form ceased. Non-conformity was no longer punished by death. Preachers
who took advantage of the lull which followed the Marian persecution and resumed disputatious
sermons, as they did more especially in the city, were silenced by royal proclamation,(1483)
which ordered them to confine themselves to reading the gospel and epistle for the day, and
the Ten Commandments, in the vulgar tongue, without adding any comment. So ran Eugene and close
good book, and out of his mind those grim memories, giving back to the contemplation of the beautiful
nature.

Hours pass, sounds begin work, and that day looks like from misfortune. Everything goes wrong,
it would seem that you have reached the suicide Eugenio curses. Very early runs through the house a
terrible moodiness, N has gone very bad night has risen M ill, and all are more bitter than green
fruit juice. A Eugene also hits some of the malignancy air around him, but still retains something
of the calm emotions sunrise.

The overcast day goes, time will not be as good as it promised the viewer morning. Eugene goes
to his prosecution, the rain starts, the umbrella is not enough to cover the traveler, and
a narrow street crowded with mud is a horse Eugenio galloping, without regard to the sparks of
mud on their helmets make the poor passenger pedestrian made a shame from head to foot. It is
necessary to go back, go home, between mohino irritated, no cursing as high as romantic, but
not too pious by prayer for the horse and rider. Life is not already so beautiful, but it is still
bearable philosophy as the time is overcast but the sun has not disappeared yet. Destinations
of humanity are not desperate, but the sets of men are a little heavy. At last would always be
better than domestic sides were not of Lent, the streets were clean,
or that if they were dirty, no horses galloping to the neighborhood
of passersby.

On a disgrace is another. Eugene Fixed the first debacle, returns to his prosecution, going to
the house of his friend, who has news to report satisfactory regarding importance to a business.
For the moment it is received with coldness, the friend tries to escape the conversation about
the main point, and pretends occupations constraints that force you to postponed for another
day to try the case. Eugene dismisses something unsavory and suspicious, and rack their brains
to figure out the mystery, but a happy accident makes him find another friend who reveals the
plot of the first, and warns you not to rest if not to be victim of the most infamous treachery. Hurried
to take their orders, go to other that can inform the real situation of affairs, we explain the betrayal,
have pity of his misfortune, but all agree that it is too late. The loss is grown, and also irreparable:
the traitor has taken his measures with such caution, that the unfortunate Eugenio has not noticed
the trick until it has been hopelessly entangled. Go to the courts is impossible, because the
business does not allow it, blame the treacherous blackness of their action is relief barren
with nothing to take revenge and increase remedy the ills of the avenger. No but to resign.
Eugene retired to his home, goes into his cabinet, is delivered to all pain that it brings so
frustrated hopes, and inevitable change in position social. The book is still on the table, the
view reminds him of the reflections in the morning; inside and exclaims: "Oh! how miserably fooled,
when reputed exaggeration the hellish paintings in the world do these men! It is undeniable: they're
right: this is horrible, heartbreaking, frustrating, but it's reality. The man is a depraved animal,
society is a cruel stepmother, I should say an executioner who delights in tormenting, insult
us, and mocks our anxieties, while we cover with shame and give us death. There is no good faith
there is no friendship, no gratitude, no generosity, no There is no virtue on earth, all is
selfish, look concerned, treachery, betrayal, lies. For much suffering, why we have been given
life? Where is Providence, where justice God? Where ?....»

Eugene came here, and as seen by our readers, the sweet and gentle and wise philosophy in the
morning, thoughts had turned to Satan, Beelzebub inspirations. Nothing had been moved in the
world, everything went in his regular career, and neither man nor society could say worse, or delivered
to other destinations, have happened to Eugene a disgrace unexpected. Who is he moved, his feelings
have changed, his heart full of bitterness bile spills on the understanding, and this, in obedience
to the promptings of pain and of despair, the world will come painted in the colors more horrific.
And do not think Eugene comes from bad faith, see things such as express, as well as expressing
morning at the time such as the saw.

We leave to Eugene, where the terrible .... no doubt that he had aborted a blasphemy horrifying,
if not interrupted the monologue with the arrival of a gentleman freely friend enters the cabinet
without stopping at third.

- Come, my dear Eugene, I know you played a bad game.

- How you be!

-
It is very treacherous.

- So goes the world.

- What matters is about
it.

- Remedy ?.... is impossible ...

- Very simple.

- I like the
freshness.

- Everything is in gears up more funds, to take the mail
today and beat by hand.

- But what makes them ready? their calculations
lie about where I am unable to do so, and knowing the status of my
business, effect disbursements so far for the cursed object, is quite
sure that I can not take the lead.

- And if these funds were already
ready ...

- Not dreaming ...

- Look, we were meeting some friends
for the business that you do not ignore, we are You just mentioned
what happened, and the disaster that was going to cause you.

The deep impression I have produced, you can assume it, and having
sought permission from members to leave For my part the project, and
come to offer my resources, all instantly have followed my example,
all have said they will gladly face the risk of delaying its operations,
and sacrifice your gain until you'd got the better of the business.

-
But I can not agree ....

- Be ...

- But what if those gentlemen,
whom not even know ...

- You distrust was already planned, so use
the mail, I'm going, and this book will find all that is needed.

Adieu, my dear Eugene.

The portfolio has fallen by the book fatal Eugenio ashamed to be anathematized
the humanity, without exception when the mail does not let you philosophize,
but feels his philosophy takes less desperate bias.

The next morning the sun shone beautiful bright as day, the nightingale
singing in the branches, the farmer will go to their tasks, and Eugene
will to see things as they did before their fatal adventures.

Within 24 hours which certainly have not changed anything either
in nature or in society, the philosophy of Eugene has come a vast
space, to return as the stars, at the same point where depart.

§ IV.

Don Marcelino.

Political changes.

Don Marcelino has just emerged from an election, in which the parties have fought tremendous
battle. Muscle strength has also had his vote been brandished knives have been unabated the blows,
the bell of the President has resonated with the sound of raucous voices, and lungs of bronze.
Don Marcelino belongs to the defeated party, and had to be saved
to escape.

What is value, as can be seen, not lacking, but it was important
not to forget the considerations of prudence and decorum.

The unpleasant impression he was not cleared in a few days, and it is remarkable that it is sufficient
to spoiling his liberal ideas.

"Desengáñense DVDs, gentlemen, said the tone of the most deep conviction, this is a farce, an
absurd, we have committed an atrocity, not no choice but a strong arm, the absolutism has
its drawbacks, but evil the less. Representative government, the government of enlightened
reason and free will is very beautiful in the pages of works on constitutional law, and articles
newspaper, but in reality no more than intrigue thrive, immorality, and especially impudence
and audacity. I'm already disappointed, and I felt it that well: others will come I paid. "

As
a result of the riots, the military authority takes an imposing attitude, says the state of emergency,
suspending the constitution, the rioters were intimidated, and the
city calm down.

Don Marcelino can be delivered without fear to their regular walks,
queen as safe by day and night, and so the wretched voter will forget
the scene the campanillazos, shouting, clubs and daggers.

Ocúrresele meantime take a trip, and you need your passport. At the entrance of the house There are
numerous police guard troops Don Marcelino is going to enter into the first door offered and
the Grenadier says, "Back." aim at the other, and the guard yells high and shrill voice: "Paisano
layer." remove her veil, goes something mohino, and henchmen, who resent the rigidity governmental, discourteous
gesture tell him to "fail V. so fast, wait V. your turn.

"arrived at the table, the officer directs thousands of questions researchers, looks from head
to foot, as if he suspected that the poor D. Marcelino is a the heads of the mutiny the other
day. Finally gives the passport dismissive gesture, low head, and does not deign to return the
greeting the traveler directs you with kindness and courtesy.

The patient is doing very upset, but do not think that scene has had to modify political opinion.
Reúnese with friends, the conversation turns on the latest occurrences and rises gradually to
the region of the theories of government. Don Marcelino no longer absolutist another day. What
a scandal, says one of the bystanders, I can not remember without
hate those traps! - certainly responds D. Marcelino, but in all there
are drawbacks; V. look, absolutism provides quiet, but what do I know?
also has his stuff.

At Men should not rule them with a stick, and finally we must not forget the dignity .-- But
forget it by chance are living under an absolute government? - I do not say that, but it we
must not rush to condemn the representative forms, he can not deny the absolute have some
stiffness, which suffer up the last wheels of government.

The reader will know that D. Marcelino, even inadvertently, think of the scene of the passport;
the rough behind the grenadier, the cry of the sentry, citizen, coating, the incivility of bailiffs
and official, have sufficed to introduce their ideas in any reform policies consideration.

Unfortunately the police officer had taken far his suspicions. Delivered the passport, could
not indicate his principal that he had submitted a sugeto of who suspected, according to the
sign, was not one of those who sought the authority. Somehow, in the act of climbing D. To the
coach Marcelino is arrested, taken to jail, and there is forced to spend a few days, but suffice
to liberate the vehement presumptions that its offer for a very decent
and comfortable attire, a well-nourished body and a face timid.

No more was needed to come crashing down with a crash convictions absolutist, and some crumbled
with the business of the passport. The capture sudden, it prison uncomfortable, heavy and fussy and
offensive of interrogations, and sufficient too many to output D. Marcelino from prison with
his rejuvenated liberalism, with its fondness rights to the table with his hatred of arbitrariness,
with its aversion to military rule with their earnest desire for personal security and other constitutional
guarantees are truth. His political faith is very much alive today, as he firmly, waiting for
come another election, or a day of noise scared him racing and street cries. It will be difficult to
resist new beliefs so hard to test.

§ V.

Anselmo. His variations on the death penalty.

Anselmo, young amateur to the study of high matters of legislation,
just read an eloquent speech against the death penalty.

The condemnation of the irreparable innocent, the disgusting and awful of punishment, even
if they suffer the real culprit the futility of such punishment to remove or lessen the crime,
everything is painted in bright colors, with superb strokes, all accented with poignant descriptions
with anecdotes to shudder. The young man was deeply moved, to imagine that meditation, not
does more than feel, think as a philosopher who judges, when there is more than a man compassion.
In his opinion, the death penalty is useless, and even if not unfair, it is quite futility to
make your application highly criminal. This is a point where society should give serious thought
to free himself from the cruel custom generations have left you less enlightened. The convictions
of the new adept nothing left to be desired, combine them social and humanitarian reasons,
apparently, nothing was able to move.

The young philosopher speaks on the matter to a magistrate of deep knowledge and extensive experience,
who believes that the abolition of the death penalty is an unattainable illusion. Develops
first principles of justice as it is based, painted in bright colors the dire consequences that
would result from such a step, portraying heartless men, making fun
of any other penalty that was not the last execution, recalls the
obligations of society in protecting the weak and innocent, sometimes
referred to as disastrous highlight the cruelty of evil and suffering
of the victim, the heart of the young and experience new impressions,
a holy indignation raises his chest, the zeal of justice inflamed
him, his sensitive soul is identified and elevated with the magistrate,
is proud Mastering the feelings of unjust compassion, of sacrifice
on the altar of the great interests of humanity, and imagining and
sitting in court clad in toga a judge, it seems that the heart says
"yes, also know to be fair, also know overcome yourself, so you would
know, if need be, to obey the promptings of your conscience and with
hand on heart, and your eyes on God, to pronounce the fatal sentence
in gift of justice.

"

§ VI.

Some remarks to ward off evil influence of the heart.

Nothing is more important to think that penetrated the changes that occur in our view, the disposition
of mind in which we find ourselves. And here lies the reason that us is so hard to overcome
our time, to our peculiar circumstances, to concerns of education, the influence of our interests,
hence should be makes us so hard to act and think according to the requirements of the eternal law
to understand what the region rises above the material world, to postpone this to the the future.
What is before our eyes, what affects us today, here are commonly decide what our actions and even
our opinions.

Who wants to think well, we need to get used to be much about herself, constantly reminding
this important truth needs to get used to concentrate a lot to ask often: "Do you have the
courage enough alone? Are you not troubled by a passion that you presents the different things
than they are themselves? Are you possessed of some secret affection without shaking violently
your heart dominates him gently, through a fascination that no notice? In what we now think,
judge, forecast and speculation, "perhaps under the rule works some recent posters that disrupt
your ideas, shows you upset the objects? few days or a few moments before, did you think of
this? How long have you changed auándo your opinions? Not since a pleasant or unpleasant event,
favorable or adverse, have changed your situation? Have you shown more on the subject, has
acquired new data or just have new interests? What has occurred, reasons or wishes? Now you are
agitated by a passion, Lord, for your affections, judge in this way, and your opinion I think
it is right, but if the fancy takes you to a different situation, if you expect some time has
elapsed, if things Guess you will be presented in the same light, with the same color? "

Do not think that this practice is impossible, everyone can try it
from my own experience and will be seen that serves admirably to guide
the understanding and fix the behavior.

Not so common to get such high exaltation of our affections, which
completely deprive us the use of reason, for such cases there is nothing
to prescribe, for then there mental alienation, whether temporary
or permanent.

What are the passions ordinarily is obscure our understanding, turn
the trial, but not blind at all that, or removed this.

Is always at the bottom of the soul a light is dimmed, but not off, and the shine more or less in
critical times, largely depends on the habit of meeting to it, to reflect on our situation, know
doubt our ability to think While in the act of not taking the sparks of our hearts for enough
light to guide us and to consider that are not themselves but to dazzle.

§ VII.

The friend turned into a monster.

That passions blind us is a trivial truth, that nobody know. What we lack is not vague and abstract
principle, but a continuing warning of its effects, knowledge practical, detailed, disorder
that produces malign influence on our understanding; what can not be acquired without hard work,
without lengthy exercise. The examples given more above demonstrate quite the truth as I am
concerned exposure, however I will not rinse it with some other useless.

We have a friend whose good qualities we love, whose merit we hasten to commend provided the
opportunity given to us, and whose affection towards us we can not doubt. Niéganos one day we
ask a favor, not interested enough in the person you recommend ever receive us coldly responds
with surly tone, or give us any other resent. From that moment we experienced a noticeable
change in the opinion about our friend, maybe a whole revolution. Neither his talent is so clear,
and their willingness as straight or as smooth their nature, nor his heart as well, or your dealings
so sweet, and its presence so affable, in all we find that correct, to amend, in all we were wrong,
the release that affects us has removed the veil, has removed us
from the illusion, and fortune if man model does not suddenly has
been transformed into a monster.

Is it likely to be both our deception? No: it is yes to love them before we do not showed her spots, and
that our current resentment or exaggerates the fakes. Perchance not thought possible that
the friend could refuse to pay a favor, or misbehaves in a business, or in a bad mood when
you forget your ordinary kindness and courtesy? Certainly that this was impossible in our eyes, if
we had asked about the particular we responded to was a man, and therefore was subject to weaknesses,
but this not reduce their excellent qualities. For now, why so much hype? The reason is patent,
we feel hurt, and who thinks, who judges, not the enlightened understanding with new data, but
was angry, exasperated, perhaps bent on revenge.

Do we want to see what it's worth our new trial? behold a very simple
means.

Imagine that the launch has not gone bad with us, but a person who
we are indifferent; even when the circumstances are the same, even
when relations between the offender Friend and the offended person,
are so warm and close as those between him and us, "Indeed we will
draw the same consequences?

It is certainly not: know he has done wrong, maybe we will tell you with freedom and integrity,
perhaps we will have discovered a bad quality of its kind that we had hidden, but why not let others
to recognize clothes that adorn not judge him worthy of our appreciation, we will pursue related him
with the same ties of friendship. No longer will a man that has nothing laudable, but a person
endowed with much good, is subject to evil. And these changes in view happen even if the friend
really guilty, even forgetting the very easy our passion or interest
we have unfortunately blinded, making atendiésemos not to the grave
and just reasons which have led to act the way we scold, background
without making us knew very well, we conduct we have observed, in
order to disrupt our view so that a very fair proceeding reasonable
and we have seemed the height of injustice, treachery, ingratitude.

How often we would be sufficient to correct our view, watching the thing in a spirit of appeasement;
as a business that we are not interested!

§ VIII.

Thoughtful changes in political trials.

Are you guys in power our political friends, or those that but we agree, and give some orders
contrary to law? "The circumstances, we can more than men and laws, the government can not always
conform to strict legality, sometimes as much legal is the most illegitimate,
and also, so individuals and peoples, and governments have conservation
instinct that overrides everything, a necessity, to whose presence
give any and all rights considerations.

"The violation of the law have you done with smoothness, bluntly confessing and apologizing
to the need? "Well done, say, the frankness is one of the best garments of any government, what
good is it to deceive people, and working to govern with fictions and lies? "Have you tried
not to break the law? but it has been avoided with a reverie futile, must be interpreted openly opposed
to the mind the legislature? "The occurrence has been happy, say, at least as deep respect shown
to the law, which denies or is not in the last extremity. The law is sacred, against which we
must not ever attempt, not recently, the government can not save bottom, left intact the forms.
If there is something arbitrary, at least not being presented the irritating rod of despotism.
This is precious to the freedom of peoples. "

Men of power are they our enemies? The case is very different. "Illegality was not necessary, and besides,
even if it were, the law is above everything. Where are we going to stop, if it gives governments
the power to break it, when it deems necessary? This is equivalent to authorize the despotism ruling
violates any laws, saying that the infringement is justified by urgent and undeniable. "

Should the government has openly admitted the infraction of the law? "This is intolereble,
exclaimed: This is adding insult to the ticket, even had seized on some Thin costume ... is
the last point of impudence, is the most ostentatious of arbitrariness disgusting. Is seen, beating
out not be necessary in rodeos, but he did not autocrat of the Russias. "

Has the government sought to save the forms, keeping some semblance of legality?

Between thirty and forty of them—and those the most intelligent and active of them—refused
and resigned their cures. Their congregations supported them, and thus a large body of good
Protestants were driven into opposition. But there all action against them ceased. It was otherwise
with the Protestants on the continent, where a determination arrived at in the same year that
Elizabeth enforced the Act of Uniformity, to suppress heresy, led to the most horrible persecution,
and drove many of the inhabitants to seek refuge in England.

(M760)

Of the hundreds of foreigners who sought this country, driven from France or Spain by religious
persecution,(1546) none was more hospitably received than the brother of the great Coligny,
the Cardinal Chastillon. The Bishop of London having excused himself entertaining the cardinal
at Fulham, his eminence was lodged and hospitably treated for a whole week by Gresham. During
his visit he paid a visit, Huguenot as he was, to the French Church established in the city,
where his co-religionists were allowed to worship without fear of molestation. He further paid
his host the compliment of visiting the Exchange, then approaching completion. At the end of
the week he removed to Sion House, where accommodation had been found for him.(1547)

(M761)

The influx of refugees from the continent was far from being an unmixed blessing. Hitherto
the queen had been accustomed through Gresham, her factor, to raise what money she required
by loans from merchants abroad. This difficulty would be reasonable if it were an isolated
event, wrapped in some obscurity, subject to a thousand different combinations, when there are
objections against Christianity is not only unfounded, but even contrary to common sense.

§ IX.

The moral failure or ordinary.

The moral failure or regular opposition to the regular and ordinary course of events. This
word is susceptible of many meanings, as the idea that ordinary course
as elastic, is applicable to different objects so that little can
be said in general that be useful in practice.

This failure has nothing to do with the absolute or natural things morally impossible not leave
so much potential to be absolutely and naturally.

We will give a very clear and simple idea of ​​the impossibility Ordinarily, if we say it is impossible
thus all that, considering the regular course of things, or very rarely happens once or never. I
see a high character, whose name and titles all spoken, and whom
are taxed the respect due to his rank.

It is morally impossible that the name is of course and the character an impostor. Usually not the
case: But it has also suffered this disappointment once in a while.

We see at every step that the moral impossibility disappears with the help of an extraordinary reason
or unplanned, to pervert the course of events. A captain he heads a handful of soldiers, coming
from distant lands, addressed to unknown shores, and is a vast continent populated by millions
of people. Set fire to their ships, and says leave. Where does it go? A vast kingdoms to conquer
a few hundred men.

This is impossible; the adventurous are you insane?

Let him that his madness is the madness of heroism and genius; the
inability to become historic event.

Surnamed Hernán Cortés, who is Spanish acaudilla Spanish.

§ X.

Impossibility of common sense improperly contained in moral impossibility.

The moral failure is sometimes a very different sense from that set up here. There impossible which
can not be said that they are with absolute impossibility or natural; and yet we live with such certainty
that it's impossible not to be made, that gives us greater natural, and little he needed to
produce the same effect as the absolute. A man have on hand a box of printed characters, we will
assume cube form for that equals the probability of falling and supported by any of their
faces melded repeatedly without rhyme or reason, without even looking
at what he does, and eventually drops them the ground is it possible
that result by chance arranged such that they form the episode Dido?

No, responds instantly anyone in their right mind, expect this accident would be a delusion, so
sure are we that will be fulfilled, that if it became our slope of such a life chance, saying
that if this is confirmed it will kill us, would continue as calm as if there were no condition.

It
is noteworthy that there are no absolute or metaphysical impossibility, for there is in nature
repugnance of the characters essential to put in that way, as a typesetter in a short time
the well would have very easily, there is no natural impossibility, because no law of nature
to preclude falling for this or that side, or to each side the other
as appropriate to the effect: there is thus a failure of another order,
that nothing has in common with the other two, and neither resembles
what is called moral, for only be outside the regular course of events.

The

theory of probability, aided by the combinations, shows this impossibility, calculating, so
to speak, the great distance that this phenomenon is with respect to existence. The Author
of nature did not want a conviction is very important to us, depending on the reason, and therefore
it lacked many men, so we gave them all the way to instinct, as it has done others that we
are equally necessary. In vain I empeñariais in combat or even rudest man, he maybe would not
know what answer you, but wag his head and would say to himself, "this philosopher who believed
in the possibility of such nonsense, should not be too sound trial. "

When nature speaks in the depths of our soul in a voice so clear,
so decisive tone, is foolish not to listen.

Only a few men surnamed philosophers sometimes persist in this endeavor, not remembering that
there is no philosophy to excuse the lack of common sense and that evil will be wise who begins
by being foolish [4].

CHAPTER V.

QUESTIONS OF EXISTENCE, KNOWLEDGE ACQUIRED BY THE TESTIMONY OF THE
SENSES IMMEDIATELY.

§ I.

Need evidence of the senses, and the different ways in which we provide knowledge of things.

Settled principles and rules that should guide us in matters of possibility, let Now to those of existence,
which offer a wider field, and more useful and frequent applications.

The existence or nonexistence of a being, or rather that something is or is not, can we be sure
in two ways: by ourselves, or through others.

Knowledge of the existence of things that is acquired by ourselves, without interference others,
comes from the senses mediate or immediate, or they present us with
the object or impressions that they cause us to spend the understanding
infer the existence what is not sensible or not.

The view immediately informed me of the existence of a building that I have this, but a piece of SECUNDAIRE,
some remains of a pavement an inscription or other evidence, I do know that in such or such
a place existed a temple Roman. In both cases I have the news to
the senses, but in the first instant, the second immediately.

Who lacked the senses would not know the existence of spiritual beings; dormant for understanding
could not get this news, nor reason, nor faith, unless it be that God favored by extraordinary
means, that now it is not.

The distinction explained in any way prejudge up systems that can be taken on origin of ideas,
now they are supposed to be acquired, sometimes innate, sometimes come from the senses, are now
only excited by them, the truth is that we know nothing, think nothing,
if senses have not been in action.

Moreover, until they leave to the ideologues of power imagine what
it will seem good on the intellectual functioning of a man who lacked
of all the senses, we can safely give them so great latitude clarify
course nobody never what it really would have, since the patient would
not be able to communicate what happens, either by words or by signs.

Finally here they are men endowed with senses, and experience shows
that these men know, or what they feel, or by what they feel.

§ II.

Correcting errors on occasion of the senses. Your choice. Examples.

The immediate knowledge that the senses give us of the existence of a thing, is sometimes wrong,
because we serve as we have these wonderful instruments that we have been granted the Author
of nature. Corporeal objects acting on the sense organ, causing an impression on our soul's make
sure what good this impression, we know how point corresponds to the existence of an object Here
are the rules to avoid errors in these subjects. Some explanations teach more than the precepts
and theories.

Long distance to see a moving object, and say, "there's a man 'closer,
I find that it is not, and there is only a bush swayed by the wind.

Have I been deceived sense of sight? No: because the impression that she has sent me a package was
only moved, and if I had the feeling he served well received, would have noticed that I painted a man.
When I wanted him as such, should not blame the meaning, but to my little attention, or noticing
some resemblance to that between the package and a man seen from afar, I inferred that this
ought to be in effect, not realizing that the likeness and reality are very different things.

Having
some background that will be a battle, or are harassing some square, methinks I heard gunshots,
and I stand by the belief that the fire started. Post news I do know that it has fired a shot, who is
to blame for my mistake? not my ear, but me. The noise was heard in effect, but it was the shock
of a woodcutter who echoed the bottom of a distant forest, was to close a door, whose roar echoed
the building and its vicinity, was to anyone else that produced a sound like to the distant roar of a
cannon. "I was pretty sure that was not to my immediate the cause of the noise that gave me
the illusion? Was quite exercised to discern indeed, considering the distance that the fire was
to be the address of the place, and the wind prevailed at that time?

It is because the sense he has deceived me, but my lijereza and precipitation. The feeling was
as it ought to be, but I've been saying what she told me. If I had been content to say that I heard
noise like distant cannon fire, had not to mislead others and to myself.

One would have a food of excellent quality, and the test says, "is bad, intolerable, is known that
there is this or that mix, "because in effect your palate and experience it. Would you cheated
meaning? no. If it seemed bitter, could not be otherwise, considering
the indisposition stomach which was covered with the language of a
humor that maleaba everything.

Bastabales to this man a little reflection to condemn not so easily
or the servant or the reseller.

When the palate is ready and his feelings tell us the qualities of
food in Otherwise no.

§ III.

Need to employ in some cases more than one way, for proper comparison.

It should be noted that known through the senses the existence of an object, not enough sometimes
use one, but it is necessary to employ others at the same time, or attend to the circumstances
we can guard against the illusion. It is true that the discerning extent corresponds to the existence
of an object to the sensation we receive, we work of the comparison, which is based on experience.
A blind man whom cataracts are removed, it does not judge the distances, sizes and shapes, until
you gain the practice of viewing. This acquisition we do without noticing since childhood,
and so we believe that only to look to judge of objects such as are in themselves. A very simple
experience and are often convince them otherwise. An adult man and a child of three years are
looking through a glass offered by the sight landscapes, animals, armies, both receive the same
impression; But the adult, who knows who has never left the field, and is in a closed room, not altered
either by the proximity of wild beasts, or by disasters of the battlefield. The hard it is to preserve
the illusion, and more than once must be diverted from reality, and to supply some defects
or tool box for pleasure with the presence the show.

But the child that does not compare, which only serves to feel at all isolated, is frightened
and crying, fearing that he had to eat the beasts, or seeing how cruelly soldiers are killed.

Still
more: experience at every step an excellent perspective from which we had no News, views to the
corresponding distance illusion causes us and makes us take for objects of relleve they actually
are flat. The feeling is not wrong, but it is the trial which it formed. If advirtiésemos that
fit the rules for producing the same retina printing with a blunt object with another large, we had
indulged in the ability Artist without falling into error.

This would have gone looking at the object from different points
or availing of touch.

§ IV.

The body healthy and sick at heart.

Those who seek the good use of the senses often warn that care must be taken that any indisposition
does not affect the organs, and so we are able to communicate feelings deceive This is certainly very
cautious, but not as useful as people think. Patients rarely engaged to serious studies, and
so his mistakes are of little importance, besides themselves, or their relatives, soon noticed
the alteration of the body, thereby preventing timely the error. Those are the rules need
to be healthy in body are not in spirit and worried thinking put at his disposal and service
all your senses, making perceive, perhaps with the utmost good faith,
all that should excogitating system support.

What did not discover in the heavenly bodies the astronomer who runs the telescope, not profit
calm and unaware of bias, but with strong desire to prove a risky assertion lijereza more than
enough? What you will not see under the microscope, the naturalist who is in disposition similar?

By
the way I said that these errors were likely to suffer perhaps with the utmost good faith, because
happens very often that the man is deceived himself first, before deceiving others. Dominated by their
favorite opinion, anxious to find out the real tests, examines objects not to know but to overcome,
and thus it happens that is in them all you want. Many times the senses do not tell anything about
what he intended, but offer something similar: "This is, exclaims jubilantly, Lo here is what
I suspected," and when rising doubt in his mind, seeks to stifle
it, achácala to little faith in its irresistible doctrine strives
to satisfy himself, closing his eyes to the light to deceive the other
without being compelled to lie.

Enough to have studied the human heart to know that these scenes are not uncommon, and we play
with ourselves in a pitiful way. Do we need a conviction? as in one way or another worked in
formárnosla, at first the task is expensive, but in the end the habit is to strengthen the weak,
will he go to disallow the pride back, and fighting that began with
a hoax himself that he was not hiding at all, just by actually be
fooled, and delivered his apparently incorrigible stubbornness.

§ V.

Real feelings, but without external object. Explanation of this phenomenon.

In addition, it is necessary to note that not always the case that stunned feeling attributed
to the more than what she has, a lively imagination possessed of an object, work on the same senses,
and altering the normal course of duties, it is actually feel it is not there. To understand how
this takes place, we should remember that feeling not verified in the sense organ but the brain, rather
than force of habit refer us to the point of the impression which we receive. While the eye
stayed very healthy completely blind, if you suffer injury to the optic nerve, and private
communication from a member anyone with a brain, the sense is extinguished. From this it follows
that the real receptacle of all sensations is the brain, and that if one of its parts is excited
by an act inside the impression that is normally produced by the action of an external body,
there will feeling that there was no exterior posters. That is, if upon receiving the external
body the impression of a body, the brain communicates to the nerve
causing the vibration or other B affection, and by any cause, independent
of external bodies, there is in the same body at the same vibration
B, will experience the same feeling that if the body external reality
was affected.

At this point are in accord reason and observation. The soul is informed of objects immediately
outside the senses, but immediately by the brain when it get this or that posters can not ignore
her refer you to where usually proceeding and usually the object that produces it. If it is
advised that the organization is altered, it precaverá against error, but will not be leaving
to receive the sensation, but wary of her testimony. When Pascal, she says, saw a gap to his
hand, well knew that in fact they were not, but kept receiving the same feeling that if there
had been on such an abyss, and not enough to overcome the illusion of more to endeavor. This
phenomenon takes place very often, and is not nothing strange to
those who have some notions about such matters.

§ VI.

Cranky and withdrawn.

What usually happens in a state of brain disease, can occur very well when exalted the imagination
by any cause, now becomes sick with relationship what worries them. What are hobbies, but the
realization of this phenomenon? Well understood hobbies that are distributed in many classes
and graduations, which are continuous and at intervals, and arranged
extravagant, vulgar and scientific, and just as Don Quixote windmills
turned into monstrous giants, and herds of sheep and goats in armies
of combatants, you can also find a stubborn sage with the help of
their telescopes, microscopes and other instruments, whatever their
intention to comply.

The very thinkers and self-absorbed men at high risk of mania wise, in the illusions sublime to the
wretched humanity, but it is covered with different forms depending on various life situations,
always brings its heritage of weakness. For a weak little woman the whisper of the wind is
a mysterious moan, the moonlight is the appearance of a deceased, and the cry of night birds is the
cry of the evocations of hell for go to terrifying scenes.

Unfortunately, there are only women who have imagination fevered,
and take for reality the dreams of his fantasy [5].

CHAPTER VI.

KNOWLEDGE OF THE EXISTENCE OF THE ITEMS PURCHASED BY THE SENSES MEDIATE.

§ I.

Sorry to transition from the non-sense.

The senses are immediately given us news of the existence of many objects, but these are still
larger number who do not exercise the action on the material organs, or because incorporeal,
or for not being disposed to affect them. To what the senses tell us stands a building as large
and high knowledge of all kinds, looking at him is difficult to conceive how this could have
grounded in such small bases.

Can not reach the senses comes understanding, knowing the existence of objects insensitive by
the sensitive. The lava spread over an area know us the past existence of a volcano that we
have seen, the shells found at the summit reminiscent of a mountain the elevation of the water,
indicating a catastrophe we have not seen, some underground work shows that in earlier times
benefited a mine there, the ruins of ancient cities show us the abode of men not we have known.
So the way we have an object, and with this understanding comes half the knowledge of others
very different.

While noting this passage from the known to the unknown we can not do without Before we have any
idea more or less complete, more or less general unknown object,
and without at the same time we know that there is some dependence
between the two.

So in the examples put forward, but did not know that particular
volcano or waves that swept the mountain or to the miners, nor to
the inhabitants, despite all these objects were known to me general
and its relations with what they offered me the senses.

In the contemplation of the marvelous machine of the universe we
would not knowledge of the Creator, but we had causes and effects
idea of ​​order and intelligence.

And it is by the way, this single observation enough to disrupt the system that are not in our
thoughts more than feelings transformed.

§ II.

Coexistence and succession.

The dependence of the objects is all that can empower us to infer the existence of one of the
other, and thus the whole difficulty lies in knowing this dependence.

If the intimate nature of things were clear to our view, suffice to fix be to find a course all
their properties and relationships among them discover which you are linked with others. Unfortunately
it is not, for in the physical order as in the moral, are very scarce and incomplete ideas we
have about the founding principles beings. These are precious secrets
carefully veiled by the hand of the Creator; of itself so that the
richest and most exquisite nature shelters, sometimes concealed in
the most hidden breast.

Because of this lack of knowledge with regard
to the essence of things, we often are compelled to guess their dependence
on only their coexistence or succession, implying that one depends
on another, because there are few or many times together, or because
this is after that. On Sunday (25 Jan.) the Count was conducted
to Westminster for an interview with the queen, after which lodgings were assigned to him in
Somerset House. The court of Common Council had already (23 Jan.) voted "Duke Cassimerus" a
gratification "in moneye or anye other thinge" to the value of 500 marks.(1613) His visit was
one round of feasting, hunting and sight-seeing; one day dining with the lord mayor, another
with the merchants of the Steelyard; one day hunting at Hampton Court, and another day witnessing
athletic sports at Westminster. That the Count succeeded in clearing his character may be surmised
from the fact of his receiving the Order of the Garter before his departure.(1614)

(M788)

In the following year the plague, which had been very virulent towards the end of 1577, and
from which the city was seldom entirely free, appeared at Rye (June, 1580). A twelvemonth later
it was raging in London, but as the weather grew colder its virulence abated, allowing of the
resumption of the lord mayor’s feast. The respite was short. In the spring of 1582 it was again
rife in the city, increasing in fatality during the hot season and continuing until the winter
of 1583.(1615) Business was often at a standstill, the law courts had to be removed to the
country, and the sittings of the London Husting suspended.(1616)

St. Paul’s Churchyard, which served as the burial ground to no less than twenty-three city
parishes, became overcrowded and greatly added to the insanitary condition of the city by its
shallow graves. The mayor informed the lords of the council of this state of affairs by letter
(15 May, 1582), in which he says that scarcely any grave was then made without exposing corpses,
and that the heat of the crowds standing over the shallow graves caused noxious exhalations.
It was currently reported at the time that the gravediggers were the cause of the shallow graves
"as being desirous to have the infection spred that they might gaine by burieng."(1617)

CHAPTER XVIII.

(M789)

The time was fast approaching when the queen would find herself unable any longer to maintain
her frequent cry to the council board, "No war, my lords, no war!" and she began to concert
measures to frustrate any attempt that might be made to attack her crown and realm by the subtle
device of the Pope’s emissaries or the more open hostility of Philip.

(M790)

There were two ways in which the Pope and Spain could attack England, the one by making a descent
upon the coast, the other by undermining the loyalty of the queen’s subjects by the aid of
missionaries. A descent upon the English coast was, for the present at least, out of the question,
but it was possible to wound England by fostering insurrection in Ireland. Accordingly, in
1579, a large force landed at Limerick under the authority of the Pope. It was, however, overpowered
and destroyed by Lord Grey, the lord deputy.(1618)

Then followed the rebellion under the Earl of Desmond, who six years before had regained his
liberty on a promise to use his influence to destroy the Catholic religion in Ireland.(1619)
Throughout the Desmond rebellion the Londoners were constantly being called upon to furnish
men and munition of war. The trouble was protracted by the landing of a force of 800 men from
Spain, with the connivance, if not with the authority, of Philip. When the rebellion was suppressed
distress drove many Irish to England, and the city became their chief refuge.(1620) A special
day was appointed for apprehending "all suche rogishe and begging Ireishe people as well men
weomen as children" as should be found wandering abroad in the city,(1621) and steps were taken
subsequently to convey all Irish beggars to Bristol with the view of sending them back to their
native land.(1622)

(M791)

Whilst appealing to force to accomplish their object in Ireland, the Catholics resorted to
intrigue to gain the same object in England and Scotland. For some years past there had been
a steady flow from the continent of seminary priests, who worked silently and secretly making
converts to the old religion. Every precaution was taken to prevent their inculcating their
dangerous opinions into the minds of the inhabitants of the city and drawing them off from
their allegiance to the queen and to the established Church. The aldermen were instructed to
make return of those in their ward who refused to attend church. This was in 1568.(1623) In
1574 all strangers who had crept into the city under colour of religion and were found to be
of no church were ordered to leave.(1624) In the following year (9 June, 1575) every stranger
was called upon to subscribe the Articles of religion before he was allowed to take up his
residence within the city, and those who refused to subscribe or to attend church were to give
bond for their appearance before her Majesty’s Commissioners for Ecclesiastical Causes to answer
such matters as should be objected against them.(1625) The aldermen were instructed to make
diligent search in their several wards for such as held conventicles under colour of religion
and inter-meddled with matters of State and civil governance.(1626) In 1580 a regular Jesuit
mission, under two priests, Campion and Parsons, was despatched to England as part of an organised
Catholic scheme. Campion had at one time been a fellow of St. John’s College, Oxford. Their
first step was to remove a difficulty under which devout Catholics had laboured ever since
the issue of the Bull of excommunication against Elizabeth in 1571. That Bull had reduced them
to the necessity of choosing between disobedience to the Church and treason to the queen. The
new missionaries helped them out of the dilemma by explaining that the censures of the Church
only applied to heretics; Catholics might feign allegiance and the Church would say nothing.

(M792)

Under these circumstances it can scarcely be wondered at that the government proceeded to strong
measures—A proclamation was issued requiring English parents to remove their children from
foreign seminaries, and declaring that to harbour Jesuit priests was to harbour rebels;(1627)
whilst parliament imposed fines upon all who refused to attend the service of the established
Church, in addition to the penalties imposed in 1571 upon those who claimed to absolve subjects
from their allegiance and to receive them into the Church of Rome. The people who want to overextend their borders, is often narrower than
required by the natural, the conqueror who is determined to earn crown on his head, eventually losing
all, who is not satisfied with the vast domain empires, will be consumed in a solitary rock
in the vastness of the ocean. Of those who aspire supreme power, most found the proscription or the
scaffold. Covet castle of a monarch, and lose the domestic hearth, dream on a throne and find
a gallows.

§ XXXIV.

Observations on the advantages and disadvantages of virtue in business.

God has not left defenseless its laws, he has shielded all the just punishment, punishment which
usually is experienced in this life. For this reason the calculations based on the interest in opposition
to morality, are heavily exposed to failed out, entangling the immorality in their own bonds.
But do not think that with this I want to deny that man virtuoso is found often in extremely
disadvantageous position to compete with an opponent immoral. Do not deny that in any case it is more
likely to achieve an end which may use any means not notice any, as does the bad man, and that no longer
be a grave obstacle to have to rely on very few resources or perhaps only one, as it happens
to the virtuous, because it is immoral for him as if he might be; but while this is true by
considering a single business, is not less than walking the time, the disadvantages of virtue is offset
by the advantages, as well as the advantages vice is offset by the disadvantages, and which ultimately
result, a true man come straight to reap the fruits of your righteousness discreetly reaching the end
proposed; and that the immoral expiate their sins, sooner or later,
finding the debauchery at the tip its evil and devious ways.

§ XXXV.

Defense against a charge under unfair.

The virtuous and unfortunate, have a propensity to identify their strengths as the origin of their
misfortunes, as they tend to these things together the desire to flaunt their virtue, and
to hide their indiscretions, that very great imprudence also committed to the intention straighter
and more pure. Virtue is not responsible for the evils caused by our foresight or lijereza, but
the man often blamed to it too easily. "My good faith I lost," cried the honest man the victim
of a fraud, when that has not lost his good faith, but his awkward confidence in who offered
him too grounds for cautious suspicion. Did the bad guys are also frequently victims other ill,
and other perfidious perfidious? Virtue teaches us the way we follow, but are not responsible
for discovering all the links that it can be found: this is the work of penetration, of foresight,
of good sense, ie a clear understanding and sensible. With these gifts is not at odds virtue, but
not always leads to partners.

As a loyal friend of humanity without reluctance houses in the heart
of all kinds of men; now they shine in the sun shining and pure intelligence,
now is dark with thick fog.

§ XXXVI.

Defense of wisdom against unfounded accusation.

Some believe that the great talents and much knowledge, tend to his evil, that is a kind of blasphemy
against the goodness of the Creator. Do you need anything under the darkness? The knowledge and
the virtues of the creature, is not perhaps emanating from a single source of high sea of light
and holiness, which is God? If the elevation of intelligence would lead to evil, evil of men would
be in proportion to its height Guess the result? Why not remove it?

Infinite wisdom would be infinite evil, and HEOS here in the Manichaean error, finding at the
end of the scale of Reres a bad principle. But what do I say? worse off this error than that
of Manes, because in it, could not support a good start. The genius of bad chair without rival, entirely
alone, to destinations around the world, the king of the underworld should place your throne
in glittering black lava regions of the Empyrean.

No, no man should flee from the light for fear of falling into evil, the truth is not afraid of
light, and the moral good is a great truth. The more enlightened understanding is best known
the ineffable beauty of virtue, and knowing better, have less difficulty in practice. Rarely
is there much elevation on the ideas, without involving her feelings
and or elevated feelings born of the same virtue, or are a disposition
well adapted to achieve.

Up there for the talent and know a reason based on the nature of the powers the soul. Everyone
knows that usually the lot of development of the one is with some
damage the other, therefore, when man to unfold in a particular way
the higher faculties wane in strength gross passions, origin of the
defects.

The history of the human spirit confirms this truth: generally speaking, men very high understanding
have been perverse, and many have been distinguished by his eminent virtues, others have been
weak men, but not evil, and if one or another has come to this end, should be viewed as an exception,
not rule.

Do you know why one talented evil committed, as it were, the reputation
of others, giving occasion for some particular cases general inferences
be drawn?

For in an evil of great talent all think, of an evil fool nobody
remembers, because form a vivid contrast iniquity and great knowledge,
and this contrast becomes more remarkable end ugly for the same reason
that more repairs on the relaxation of a priest in of a layman.

Nobody notices a patch but in a very dirty glass, but in another very clean and brilliant, is presented
from the eyes then the smallest moon.

§ XXXVII.

The passions are good tools, but bad advisers.

We have already seen (Chapter XIX) how pernicious was the influence
of the passions to hinder our knowledge of truth, even the speculative,
but what was said there generally has a lot more referring to application
in practice.

When we try to run something, the passions are sometimes a good assistant, but to prepare in
our understanding, are directors very dangerous.

The man without passion would be cool, would have some inert, lacking one of the principles powers
other than God has given to human nature, but instead the man dominated by the blind passions
and rushes to the objects to the manner of brutes.

Carefully examining the mode of action of our faculties, is easy to see that the reason is to aim to
lead, and passions to run, and so is that this serves not only the
present but also to the past and to come, when they look at the object
alone so it is at present, and the manner in which it affects us.

And the reason is that as true director is responsible for everything
that can harm or favor, not only now but also in the future, but the
passions involved solely in the run, just look the moment and present
posters.

The reason for not only pleasure but profit, in morality, decency,
decorum dispense passions, morality, utility, everything that is not
the impression pleasant or unpleasant, that the act is experienced.

§ XXXVIII.

The hypocrisy of the passions.

When I speak of passion, I mean not only to the strong tendencies,
violent stormy waving our hearts as the ocean winds, those treated
well softer, more spiritual, so to speak, because apparently are closer
to the high regions of the spirit, and often surnamed feelings.

The passions are the same vary only by its form, or rather by the graduation of intensity, and mode
of address to its object. Are thus more sensitive, but no less formidable, for that very delicate
contributes to more easily entice and mislead us.

When the passion is presented in all its deformity and violence, severely shaking the spirit
and endeavoring to drag him over bad roads, the spirit cautions against the adversary, is prepared
to fight, perhaps resulting in the same impetuosity of attack causes
a heroic defense.

But if the passion aside their violent ways, if stripped, so to speak,
of their coarse robes, covering with the mantle of reason, if their
suggestions are called knowledge, and dispositions will, enlightened
but determined, then take for treason a place that would not have
taken by assault.

§ XXXIX.

Example. Two forms of revenge.

A man has been caused by an offense, is a pretension in the success of which can decisively
influence the victim. As soon as it knows, remembers the offense received, resentment dispierta
in his heart, anger happens resentment, and anger engendered a strong desire revenge. And
why stop revenge? Is not it now offers an excellent opportunity? Is not it a pleasure to witness
the desperation of his opponents mocked his hopes, and perhaps lost in the darkness, misery, misery?
"Vengeful, vindictive, says aloud his heart, vindictive, and he knows that you have avenged; dáñale,
since he has wronged you, humíllale because he humbled you, you enjoy the pleasure of live
cruel but his misfortune, as he rejoiced in yours. The victim is in your hands, do not let go; CEBAT
it; quenched at it your thirst for revenge. Have children, and perish .... no matter .... to
perish, has parents and die of grief .... no matter .... die, and more points will be injured
in his infamous heart; bleed so more abundantly, so there is no consolation
to him, so far Filled his affliction, and pour it on your chest villain
all the gall and bitterness that he spilled a day in yours.

Revengeful, vindictive laugh a generosity that he did not practice with you, look not pity
he was not from you, he is unworthy of your favor, unworthy of compassion, unworthy of forgiveness, vengeful,
vindictive. "

Thus says the hatred excited by anger, but this language is too hard and cruel for no offend
a generous heart. Dispierta cruelty opposite feeling: "This behavior would be ignoble, infamous
would be saying the name to himself, that is repugnant to the self-esteem. What then? "I shall
rejoice in the doldrums, in the perpetual misfortune of a family? Did not I am serious memory
unquenchable regret that I lost in my dealings misery to innocent children, and sunk in the
tomb to their elderly parents? This is not I can do, it will not do, is no more honorable revenge,
my opponent knows that if he was low, I am noble, if he was inhuman,
I'm generous, not revenge I seek another it's to succeed by dint of
generosity, when his eye is my eye, your eyes will fall, turn on her
cheeks flush, his heart will feel remorse and do me justice.

"

The spirit of vengeance has fallen for his imprudence, I wanted everything, I demanded everything,
and urgently, imperiously, without consideration of any kind, and the heart has been offended
of such dismantling, has believed that it was debase, has called on his assistance to the noble
sentiments that have come soon and have decided the victory for reason. Another might have been
the result, if the spirit of revenge had taken another form less hard, if covering his face
with masks lied, had not shown his face fierce. Should not give discordant screams, horrible screams,
it was necessary for enveloped and refolded but hidden within the heart, had distilled from there
its deadly poison. "Certainly, was to say that the offender is not worthy of getting what you
intended, and just this reason should oppose you get it. He is injury, it is true, but is now
an opportunity of remember it. Not be the person presiding resentment thy conduct, but the
reason, the hope that something of such entity does not go into the wrong hands. The claimant
did not lacks some good arrangements for performance, why not do this justice? But however
flawed unforgivable. The offense did to you he wishes well, you do not remember it for revenge,
but to form an accurate assessment. Feel a keen pleasure secret and otherwise, in gloom, in losing,
but this feeling do not dominate; just drives you the desire for good, and indeed that if
there is no other reason resentment, do not put any obstacle to his designs. So perhaps, would
he sacrifice favor him, and indeed it would be painful, very painful, but maybe you resign to it. But
do not you stand in this case, fortunately the reason, prudence, justice agree with the inclinations
of your heart, and well considered, or even attend them, experience pleasure in damage to your enemy,
but this pleasure is a natural expansion, which you do not reach to destroy, but rather subject
you not to let it dominate you. No no harm in making such orders as appropriate. What matters
is to proceed with quiet, to see all that there is no bias, no hate, no spirit of revenge,
you use a right and a duty to obey them. "Revenge impetuous, violent, frankly unfair, had
not been able to achieve a victory that has been obtained without difficulty peaceful revenge, insidious,
hypocritically disguised in the veil of reason, justice, of duty.

For this reason it is so fearful of revenge when he acts on behalf
of zeal for justice.

When the heart possessed of hatred come to deceive himself, believing impulses to act of good
will, perhaps, the same love, is as subject to the fascination of a reptile whom he does not
see, and whose existence or even suspicion. So envy destroys reputations more pure and enlightened,
pursues relentless rancor, revenge is glorified in seizures and sorrow of the unfortunate victim,
making it exhausting to the dregs the pain and bitterness. The celebrated Protomártir shone by his
eminent virtues and terrify the Jews with his eloquence God, what do you think that name will envy
and revenge, dry them hearts and grind your teeth? Do you think that was the name surname is theirs?
No, in any way. These men are a scream as full of scandal, cover their ears, Deacon and slaughter
the innocent in God's name. El Salvador in the world to admire how hear him with the divine
beauty of his moral character and the wonderful stream of wisdom and love flowing from his lips
Augustus people throng to see him, and he goes about doing good; courteous to the young, compassionate
with the unfortunate, soft on the culprits, pour full hands the treasures of his omnipotence and
love, only to pronounce words of kindness and pardon, would seem to reserve the language of a
holy and terrible indignation to confuse to the hypocrites. They have found in it a majestic look
and severe, and they have corresponded with a look of snake. Jealousy is ripping the heart, feel
a burning revenge. But what will work, talk and vindictive? No, this man is a blasphemer, say,
seduce the crowd, is an enemy of Caesar, the fidelity for the public peace, religion demands
that it be removed from the middle. And he accepted the treachery of a disciple, and the innocent
Cordero will be taken to the courts, and will be questioned, and responding words of truth, the
prince of the priests will feel devoured with envy, and tear his clothes, and say "Cursed," and
the bystanders say "it is worthy of death."

§ XL.

Precautions.

Never a man meditate much about the secrets of his heart never deployed too surveillance to save
the thousand doors where you enter your iniquity never be cautious too much against the many
pitfalls with which he is fighting to himself. Are not passions so scary when presented as they
are in themselves, speaking openly to his subject, trampling and impetuously as they are put forward.
In this case, however little is preserved in the spirit of love of virtue, if the man has not
yet come to the bottom of the corruption or the evil, feel rising in his soul a cry of horror and
indignation, as soon as it offers the service with her looks disgusting. But what dangers do
not run, if bartered names, and changed the costumes, everything is offered in disguise, upset?
if your eyes look through prisms misleading, they paint with colors and gentle Galanos However,
the blackness and monstrosity?

The greatest dangers of a pure heart are not in the brutal passions of the gross incentive but those
feelings that love for their delicacy and seduce you with her tenderness, fear does not fit
into the noble souls but with the dictates of prudence, the greed is not entered generous breasts
but with the title of foresight economy, pride takes shelter under the shadow of love of one's
dignity, and respect due to the position held: the vanity provides its little joys, vain deluding
to the urgent need know the opinion of others, to take advantage of criticism is disguised revenge
the robe of righteousness, the furor his name is holy indignation; laziness invokes their aid the
need of rest, and the gnawing envy destroy reputations, to engage in obfuscate his breath
impure the splendors of eminent merit, speaks of love of truth, of fairness, how much they should
guard against an ignorant or admiration childlike enthusiasm.

§ XLI.

Hypocrisy of the man himself.

The man used the hypocrisy to deceive himself, perhaps more than to deceive the others. Rarely given
to himself Mobile accurate account of their actions, and therefore, even in the purest virtues,
there is some dross. Entirely pure gold is not obtained but in the crucible of a perfect divine
love and that love, in all its perfection, is reserved to the heavenly realms. While living here on
earth, we have in our hearts a malignant germ or kills or weakens, or tarnish the virtuous
actions, and no small if you get to keep the germs to develop and we lost. But, in spite of
so much weakness, continues to shine in the depths of our soul that inextinguishable light on in her
by the hand of the Creator, and that light we distinguish between good and evil, serving us to guide
our steps, and regret our mistake. For this reason, we strive to deceive ourselves to not get
in too apparent contradiction with the opinion of consciousness, we covered our ears to hear
what she says, eyes closed not to see what she shows us, try us the illusion that the principle
teaches us is not applicable to this case. For this unfortunately serve the passions, insidiously
suggesting sophistical speeches.

Cuestal much the man look bad, or even their own eyes, do not dare,
it is hypocritical.

§ XLII.

The self-knowledge.

The defect referred to in the preceding paragraph has a different character in different people,
for which reason, should in no way ever losing sight of that rule of the ancients so profoundly
wise: know thyself; Nosce te ipsum. While there are certain qualities common to all men, they take
a particular character in each, each which has, so to speak, a spring that should know and
be able to handle. This spring, is necessary to discover what is in the other, to ascertain
to behave well with them, but is more necessary still discover each
one in itself.

Because there tends to be the secret of the great things and good
and bad, on account of that spring is but a propensity strong, reaching
to the others, subordinating all to an object.

This ruling passion resent all the others, she mixes in all acts
of life, it is what called character.

§ XLIII.

Man flees from himself.

If we had the unfortunate inclination to escape ourselves, if the contemplation of within us
we are not repugnant to such an extent, we would not be difficult to discover what is the passion
that we dominated. Unfortunately, no one ran away as much as ourselves, study anything less than
what we have more immediate and more interest. The generality of men down to the pit, not
only without being known to himself, but also without trying. We should be constantly looking
down on our hearts to know their tendencies, to penetrate its secrets, to restrain their impulses,
to correct his vices, avoid their wanderings, we should live with that inner life in which
man realizes their thoughts and feelings, and not put in relation to external objects, but after
having consulted his reason and his will given to the appropriate
address.

But this is not ago, the man rushes, sticks to the objects that incite, living only with the
outer life that leaves you time to think about himself. Sort are clear understandings, hearts beautiful,
do not keep for themselves any price that has enriched the the Creator, they shed, so to speak,
in streets and squares the exquisite aroma, which saved at the bottom of his heart, it could
be of comfort and gift.

Pascal referred to with great eagerness having devoted himself to mathematics and science Natural
tired of this study to find cause fewer people who can discuss on
the object of his favorite occupations.

Eager to find a subject that had not this problem is devoted to the
study of man, but soon learned from experience The study dealing with
the man were still in a lower number of fans to mathematics.

This is true now as in Pascal's time, suffice it to common men to
take to see how few are those who like such a task, mostly case themselves.

§

XLIV.

Good results reflect on the passions.

When you have acquired the habit of reflecting on their own inclinations, distinguishing the
nature and intensity of each of them, even when towing at one time or another spirit they
do not know that this violence. Maybe blind understanding, but this blindness is not set at
all to who has it, it says to himself, "you think you see, but not really see it;'re blind. "But
if man ever set his eyes on the inside, if you work according to impelled the passions without
bothering to figure out where the impulse is born; for him to become one and the same passion
and determination, intellect and instinct opinion passions.

So the reason is not only a slave mistress, instead of leading, coaching
and correcting with advice and mandates the inclinations of the heart,
is reduced to vile instrument them, and obliged to employ all the
resources of its sagacity to provide enjoyment to satisfy them.

§ XLV.

Wisdom of the Christian religion in the direction of behavior.

The Christian religion to lead moral lives close to the reflective
about our inclinations, has done a highly according to the most sound
philosophy, and discovers a deep knowledge the human heart. Experience
teaches that what is missing man to do good, no is speculative and
general knowledge, but practical, detailed, with application to all
acts of life. Who does not know and does not repeat a thousand times
that the passions we go astray and we lost? That being over she was entertained
at dinner in the bishop’s palace, and afterwards returned to Somerset House.(1681)

(M815)

Whilst the City is justly proud of its own share in the defence of the kingdom at this great
crisis in the nation’s history, it has not neglected to give honour where honour was most due.
Of the great naval commanders the "sea dogs" of that age—the faces of at least two of them
were familiar to the citizens. Both Frobisher and Hawkins owned property in the city, and in
all probability resided there, like their fellow seaman and explorer, Sir Humphrey Gilbert,
who was living in Red Cross Street, in the parish of St. Giles, Cripplegate, in 1583, the year
that he met his death at sea.(1682) The same parish claims Frobisher, whose remains (excepting
his entrails, which were interred at Plymouth, where he died) lie buried in St. Giles’s Church,
and to whom a mural monument was erected by the vestry in 1888, just three centuries after
the defeat of the Armada, to which he had contributed so much. If Hawkins himself did not reside
in the city, his widow had a mansion house in Mincing Lane.(1683) He, too, had probably lived
there, for although he died and was buried at sea, a monument was erected to his memory and
that of Katherine, his first wife, in the church of St. Dunstan-in-the-East.(1684) There is
one other—a citizen of London and son of an alderman—whose name has been handed down as having
taken an active part in the defence of the kingdom at this time, not at sea, but on land. A
monument in the recently restored church of St. Helen, Bishopsgate, tells us that Martin Bond,
son of Alderman William Bond, "was captaine in ye yeare 1588 at ye campe at Tilbury, and after
remained chief captaine of ye trained bands of this citty until his death." The monument represents
him as sitting in a tent guarded by two sentinels, with a page holding a horse.

(M816)

It was well that the Spaniards suffered defeat at sea, for had they been able to effect a landing
they would have made short work with the half-trained and dissatisfied soldiers in the camp
at Tilbury, and London would have been at their mercy. Even the presence of Elizabeth herself,
riding on horseback through the camp, as she did on the 8th August, was but poor compensation
to the soldiers for the want of victuals and wages. Many sold their armour and weapons to pay
themselves as soon as the camp broke up. Citizens of London were warned by royal proclamation
(20 Aug.)(1685) against purchasing armour and weapons offered by soldiers, who were declared
to "have most falsly and slanderously given out that they weare compelled to make sale of them
for that they receaved noe pay, which is most untruely reported." Any armour or weapons bought
before publication of the proclamation was to be delivered up to the mayor with particulars
as to the way the purchase had been effected and compensation would be allowed.

(M817)

Notwithstanding the extreme parsimony with which Elizabeth had fitted out both army and navy,
the cost of preparations to meet the attack of Spain had been great, and she was obliged to
borrow money. In September (1588) the City advanced her the sum of £30,000, receiving her bond
for repayment in the following March; and in the following December she borrowed a further
sum of £20,000 to be repaid by the following April. Both sums were raised among the livery
companies.(1686)

(M818)

In March of the following year (1589) parliament granted a liberal supply, but the grant was
accompanied by a request that Elizabeth would no longer await the assaults of Spain, but carry
the war into the enemy’s country. This the queen declared her inability to undertake on the
score of poverty. She promised, however, to give what assistance she could to any of her subjects
who relished such enterprise. Norris and Drake were at hand, ready and willing to undertake
the work on these terms. Already (in January) the City had been called upon to furnish them
with 400 strong and able men.(1687) At the end of March 1,000 more were required, and each
alderman was instructed to search in his ward for all able and masterless men and all other
persons fit for service that were householders and not charged with families, and to bring
them to the Leadenhall.(1688) With these and other forces the expedition set sail, but beyond
storming Vigo and committing some damage at Corunna, it accomplished nothing and returned in July.

(M819)

Again the city was threatened with danger and disease from the presence of disbanded soldiers
and sailors, who were apt to carry their freebooting habits wherever they went, more especially
when starvation stared them in the face. Sir Martin Calthorp did what he could to relieve them,
paying out of his own pocket no less a sum than £100. 

We followed the path that can lead to the Catholic religion, let us look on which shows, if
we depart from it. By abandoning the faith of the Church, where we refuge? If Protestantism,
which one of their sects? What reasons we preferred offers one over the other? Discern is impossible
to blindly embrace any us will be even more, and moreover, this would amount to profess none.
If the philosopher, What is the philosophical unbeliever? It is a negation of all, darkness, despair.
Can one go in search of other religions? Certainly neither Islam nor idolatry, not count us
among its adherents.

Leaving as the Catholic religion, will renounce all, will take the side of life no, let the
years run, that our life is closer to its final limit, no guide for the present, with no light
for the future, will cover their eyes, bow their heads and throw himself a bottomless abyss.

The
Catholic religion offers few guarantees of truth we want.

She also us law imposes a soft, but straight, just, charitable, complying liken ourselves to
the angels, we come to the beauty ideal that humanity can excogitating the most elevated poetry.
She comforts us in our misfortunes, and close our eyes in peace, is presented both more true
and certain, the more we approach the tomb. Ah! the gracious Providence be placed at the edge of
the grave the holy inspirations, as heralds warn us we were going to step on the thresholds
of eternity !....

CHAPTER XXII.

PRACTICAL UNDERSTANDING.

§ I.

A classification of actions.

Practical acts of understanding are what lead us to act, which involves
two questions: what is the purpose that we propose, and what is the
best way to reach you.

Our actions can be exercised, or on objects of nature under the law necessary, and here include
all the arts, or about what falls under free will, and this includes the settlement of our conduct
in regard to ourselves and to others encompassing morality, civility, domestic administration,
and politics.

I said so far about how to think of all materials, saves me the work
of enlarging on these points because he has penetrated the rules and
previous observations not ignore how to propose an end, or how the
media has to find more suitable for catch.

However, I think it is useless to add a few thoughts without leaving the limits of the genre of this
work, to supply light to guide everyone in their different operations.

§ II.

Difficulty of setting an end result.

I am not speaking here of the ultimate goal: this is the happiness in the afterlife, and he leads us to
religion. Only the secondary treatment, as appropriate to achieve the position in society,
to complete a business out of a difficult situation bravely, conciliate
friendship of a person, saved from the bullets of an adversary undo
intrigue us threat, build a device which shows, pose a political system,
finance or administration, down any institution that creates harmful
and so forth.

At first sight it seems that whenever man must work to keep in mind that proposed, not as you want,
but in a clear, specific, fixed. However, the observation shown that it is so, and there are many,
many, even among active and energetic, the who walk a little less than at random.

It happens a thousand times more attributed to men who have had plan. In seeing them occupy very
high position, either by their reputation, or by the functions they perform, we are inclined
naturally imply in any fixed object, with careful premeditation, with vast combination in
the designs, with long foresight of obstacles, with keen knowledge of the true nature of the
order, and its relations with the media that he will lead. Oh! and how much deception! The
man in all walks of life, in all circumstances of life, is always
man, that is a very small thing.

Knows little of himself, not so common form very clear ideas, or
the quality or scope of their forces, sometimes believing more powerful,
sometimes weaker than it is in fact very often find doubtful, confused,
without knowing where it goes, and where he has to go.

Also, for he is often a mystery what suits you, for so the doubts
about their forces are increased with doubts about their self interest.

§

III.

Examination of the proverb: each is the son of his works.

It is true what they say that the particular interest is a safe guide, and that respect to him,
the man rarely wrong. In this as in everything else, walk uncertain and proof of this we have
the sad experience of so many and so often we pave us our misfortune.

What it is beyond question is that because of what he regards happiness as the misfortune to be
verified the adage that man is the son of his works. In the physical world as in morality, chance
does not mean anything. It is true that the instability of human affairs, occur often unforeseen events
that disrupt the best concerted plans, which leave no reap the benefit of thoughtful combinations and
heavy fatigue, and instead favor to others, which had served as his
side were far from deserving it, but neither doubt that this is not
as common as it is commonly said and believed.

The treatment of society accompanied by the appropriate observation, correcting many trials that
had formed Thin on the causes of good or bad fortune to be different people.

Which is unfortunate, that is their fault, if we stick to what he says? none, or almost none. And
yet, if we can reveal the extent to fund their nature, their character,
customs, their way of seeing things, their system of business management,
his treatment, his conversation, manners, relationships of friendship
or family, will not discover rare many causes, if not all of which
contributed to make you unhappy.

The mistakes in this area are often born of fixing the attention on a single event has decided
the fate of the person, without considering that this incident, or
was ready by many others, or that could only have so baneful influence
on account of the situation in particular that was in the person,
their errors, defects or faults.

The fate prosperity or adversity, very rarely depends on a single cause; complícanse usually
several, and very different order, but it is not easy to follow the
thread of events Through such a complication to be designated as primary
cause, or unique, it is perhaps is not nothing but a decisive event,
or a simple occasion.

§ IV.

The hated.

Do you see this man to whom they look with indifference or divert his old friends, whom profess hate
their relatives, and not in society who are interested in him? If you hear the explanation in
which he outlines the causes, these are none other than the injustice of men, envy can not endure
the glare of foreign credit, the universal selfishness does not allow the least sacrifice even
more obligation to those who had to make, kinship, friendship gratitude: in a word, the unhappy is a victim
who has conspired against the human lineage, obstinate in refusing to recognize the high merit
of virtues, the beautiful nature of the unfortunate.

What will be really in the relationship?

Perhaps it is not difficult to discover in the same apology; might
not be hard to tell the insufferable vanity, the rough character,
the arrogance, slander, that have attracted the hatred of some, the
diversion of others, and to be finished by let the isolation unjustly
regrets.

§ V.

The ruined.

Have you heard this one whose fortunes have been ruined over own goodness, or infidelity from
a friend, or an unexpected misfortune, throwing combinations to lose highly successful, projects
full of foresight and sagacity? Well, if you attain your news to procure behavior is not surprising
that Uncover the real causes, certainly very far from what he imagines.

In effect, it may very well happen that there was evidence of infidelity from a friend that
has occurred unforeseen misfortune, may be much truth that his heart is too good, it say it
will be quite possible that their relationship has not lied, but not strange that same relationship
is present you package the causes of their misfortune, which in its conception as shallow as
fast, at his trial very quickly, for in its passing specious and the Sophists, in their itching to
project to the adventure, excessive self-confidence, in contempt of the observations of others,
on the precipitation and boldness of his conduct, ye may find more
than enough cause to have been ruined, without the goodness of his
heart, without Friend's infidelity without unexpected misfortune.

This unfortunately, far from being purely casual, maybe there will
be depended on an order of causes that were working for a long time
and infidelity of friends, would not have been difficult to foresee
and prevent their sad consequences if the person concerned had acted
with more tact in their trust, and to observe the use made of it.

§ VI.

The learned and the ignorant rich broken.

How can this man so clear, so penetrating, as instructed, could not
improve their fortune, or that had been lost when the other so shrunken,
so clumsy, so rude, made progress in his inconceivable?

Should not this be attributed to chance, to fatal, bad star? This often speaks without thinking
they are confused unfortunately the ideas and want to link to inner causes and effects unit have no
relationship.

In truth, one is clear and the other shrunk, that one looks sharp and the other clumsy, that one
is instructed and the other rude, but what good or that clearance, or that apparent penetration,
or the instruction to the effect that it is? It is true that if offered included in society,
be furnished with more grace and ease that the second, that if is necessary to hold a conversation,
that will shine much more than this, that his word is easier, more varied ideas, more pungent
comments, his most prompt replies and acute, that the rich do not mean maybe issue a word of credit
for this or that novel, this or that drama, you know some history, and was shocked to hear the bankrupt
trader explained as a wonder of erudition and knowledge, it is true that not know much about
politics, or administration, or finance, you will not own as many languages; But was it by
chance any of that, when offered to give good direction to the business?

Certainly not. When it is weighed the merits of one, and expresses surprise because luck has
not been favorable, it is passed from one computer to another very different one, you want some
effects come from causes that have nothing to do.

Observe carefully to these two men so unequal in wealth, reflect on qualities of both, behold especially
if you can make the experience in a business view lies with the two, and you will not be difficult
to infer that this prosperity as the ruin of a the other, born of very natural causes.

The one speaks, writes, plans, estimates, give thousand returns to the objects, all evidence,
to all answers, takes over a thousand advantages, disadvantages, hopes, dangers, in a word
exhausted the subject, nothing left to say it or even think. And what does the other? Can
you to sustain the dispute with his opponent? no. "Undo all the calculations
that the first ends stacking? no. Does it meet all the difficulties
to which the opinion is opposed by the opponent? no. In support of
his opinion "copy of reasons such claims as its adversary? no. To
achieve the object, what features projects as varied and ingenious?
no. What does it the unfortunate ignorant, fought, harassed, bullied
by his formidable antagonist?

- What I replied V. to this, says the
man in the projects, and knowledge?

- Nothing, but what do I know
?....

- But, do not seem to V. conclusive my reasons?

- Not really.

-
Let's see, do you have V. something to oppose to this calculation?

It is a matter of numbers, here no more.

- Now you see, what is the role goes well and the problem I have is
that in practice same thing happening.

V. Account with many items, that I'm not quite sure, I'm so chastened
....

- But certainly V. data provided to us?

What there will be interest in deceiving? If there is a loss, we
will not be alone, and part of it that we provide the news.

They are knowledgeable, honest, versed in business, and also have interest it, what more do you
want? What reason is there to doubt?

- I do not doubt anything, I think what V. said of these gentlemen, but what do you want? business
I do not like. Also there are so many contingencies that V. does not take into account ....

-
But what eventualities, sir? if you stick to a simple can be, nothing
will carry on; every business has its risks, but here again I fail
to see any with hints probability.

- V. understands more than me,
says crude shrug, and then wisely wagging Head adds: no sir, I repeat
that I do not like business, I for one do not get into it; V. insists
that it should be so profitable speculation, congratulations, see
above.

I not venture my funds.

The victory in the discussion is without doubt the designer, but who is right? Experience will tell.
The rich apparently so stupid, you look less lively than his antagonist, but instead see clearer,
more deeply, in a safer, more insightful, more accurate.

Can not is true, opposing data to data, reflections to reflections, calculations to calculations,
but the discernment touch that characterizes him, unwrapped by observation and by experience,
we are say with certainty that many data are imaginary, that the calculation is inaccurate,
that do not take into account many unfortunate eventualities, not
only possible but very probable; its insightful look has discovered
evidence of bad faith in some involved in the business, his memory
well stocked with news about the behavior in earlier cases, we guide
to assess the true value of intelligence and probity, who praised
him so much the designer.

What cares not to see So if you see better, with more clarity, distinction and accuracy? What cares
about the lack of this facility to think and speak, well adapted to show off, but very barren in good result,
as irrelevant to the object in question?

§ VII.

Observations. The reverie and good sense.

The liveliness is not penetration: the abundance of ideas, not always
brings clarity and accuracy of thought, the readiness of the trial
is often suspected of error, a long number of reasoning too clever,
often suffers from fallacies, which break the wire the inference,
and go astray to be reliable in them.

It is not always easy task to point out these defects to fixed point,
mostly when the facundo have is a brilliant storyteller who develops
his ideas in a stream of beautiful words.

Human reason is by its very thoughtful, have certain qualities as
men to intended to dazzle, to present objects from the point of view
that suits them or the concern that it is not uncommon to experience,
good opinion, the destination, can not answer to a cloud of specious
arguments other than: "this does not go well, these rationales are
not inconclusive; here is illusion, time will manifest.

"

And there are more good things that they feel they do not know, the need to be seen but not tested,
because there are delicate relations, minutiae are almost imperceptible, which is not possible
to show the speech to those who do not discover at the first glance,
there are points very fleeting view, that in vain looking for who
has failed to put them in the right time.

§ VIII.

Delicacy of intellectual phenomena in their relations with practice.

In the exercise of intelligence and other faculties of man, there
are many phenomena that not expressed any word with no sentence, no
speech, understanding that the experience is also necessary to experience
them, and sometimes is just wasted time which is used to give the
impression, as if a man wanted to force view of explanation, give
an idea of ​​the colors to a blind man.

This delicate phenomena abound in every act of our intelligence, but it shows in a particular
way in what is related to the practice. So, should not be abandoned the mind to empty abstractions,
fantastic systems can not be formed purely conventional is necessary
to take things as he does not imagine or want, but as they are, otherwise,
when making the transition from idea to object, will be at odds with
reality and will be baffled all his plans.

Add to this that in the case of the practice, especially in the relations of men with others,
does not affect only the understanding, but others operate simultaneously faculties. There
is only the communication of understanding with understanding, but of heart with heart, to more
than the interplay of ideas, there is also the feelings.

§ IX.

The folly.

The advantage is more gifted in the powers of the soul, if he meets other that either lack any
of them, or have them in lower level, is in the same case that those
who have completed the senses with respect to who is deprived of any.

If you remember these observations, it will save much time and effort, and even trouble in treatment
of men. Laughter sometimes cause its helpless to see how certain
people by away to others of a misjudgment, or make them understand
some truth.

Maybe hear in a solemn conversation with the greatest folly that
serenity and good faith of the world.

 On the 25th July, 1598, the lords of the council wrote to the mayor calling
upon him to see that some twelve or sixteen vessels were provided with ordnance and powder
for the defence of the Thames, and the court of Common Council at once took the necessary steps
for fitting out the ships as well as for mustering a force of 3,000 men, afterwards raised
to 6,000.(1740) The city’s forces and the charge of the river were confided to the Earl of
Cumberland. Do the opponents have difficulty of spiny solution?
The number of responses made up for its solidity. The most serious author A answered in this
way, the famous B-so, the wise C-so, either three is enough, choose the best sound, with complete
certainty that the Achilles adversaries have received the wound in the tendon. This is not to
convince, but to win; self-esteem is interested in the race, and known are the infinite resources
of this evil agent. Favoring bulges and exaggerates, what prejudice is diminished, defaced
Toggle: good faith protest sometimes from the depths of the soul, but her voice is drowned and
silenced as a word of peace in fierce combat.

If not, how is it possible to explain that for many centuries, schools have seen as organized, and
disciplined armies grouped around a flag? How that a number of illustrious for his learning
and virtues, they saw all a question of a Similarly, while his opponents no less enlightened
than them, they saw everything opposite way? How is it to know what were the views of one author,
not necesitásemos read, common enough in what the order to which he belonged, or the school where he
had gone? Could it be ignorance of the matter, when consumed his life in studying it? Could it
be that not read the works of their opponents? This is verified in many, but others can not be
doubt that consult regularly. Could be bad faith? Certainly not because they were distinguished
by Christian fortitude.

The causes are those listed above, the man before inducing others into error, he deceives many times
to himself. It clings to a system, there is every reason to castellated which might favor,
his mood is going to overheating as it is under attack, until the Finally, whatever the number
and strength of opponents, seems to be saying to himself: "This is your place, it must defend:
is better to die with glory than live in disgrace cowardice. "

For this reason, when trying to convince others, we must carefully separate the Because the
truth of the cause of self: mind on how to persuade the opponent that giving, nothing lost in
reputation. No ataqueis never clearly and insight talent, otherwise the battle will be formalized,
the fight will be close, and even holding him under your feet and the sword in the throat,
not to confess recabaréis up.

There are certain words of courtesy and deference at all to address the truth, in hesitating
the adversary should not save, if you want to give her things gone
before have come to nasty ends [14].

CHAPTER XV.

Reasoning.

§ I.

The worth of principles and rules of dialectics.

When the authors treated in this operation of understanding, to pile up a lot of rules direct, support
in some axioms.

Not dispute the truth of these, but I doubt much to the usefulness of those is much as has been
claimed. In effect, it is undeniable things that are identified with a third identify themselves,
that is two identify with each other, if one is other than a third, so shall also the other, that
is affirmed or denied of a whole genus or species, must be affirmed or denied the individual
content in them, and also is also very true that the rules of argumentation
based on these principles are infallible. But I have difficulty in
the application, and I can not convince they are of great use in practice.
First, admit that these rules help to give some precision to the
understanding which may serve in some cases to design more clearly,
and attend to the defects involving a speech well that sometimes this
advantage is offset to the disadvantages carried by the assumption
that reasoning is known, because no rules are ignored reasoning. Sheriff
Smith was made to undergo a severe cross-examination, but appears to have got off with his
life.(1754)

(M838)

Lord Mountjoy, who had succeeded Essex in Ireland, set to work systematically to bring the
country into complete submission. The conquest was not effected without considerable aid from
the city of London. A smile of ineffable joy would still be hovering over his lips. For They undoubtedly
had flown the soul wrapped in a sigh of love and proud to have able to inspire affection enough
to produce that embrace. The work of the sword
was supplemented by famine; until at last Tyrone himself was carried in triumph to Dublin,
and the conquest of Ireland was complete.

(M839)

