Unfortunately, a great chasm in the Annals of Tacitus, at this period, precludes all information
from that historian respecting the reign of Caligula; but from what he mentions towards the
close of the preceding chapter, it is evident that Caligula was forward to seize the reins
of government, upon the death of Tiberius, whom, though he rivalled him in his vices, he was
far from imitating in his dissimulation.  Amongst the people, the remembrance of Germanicus'
virtues cherished for his family an attachment which was probably, increased by its misfortunes;
and they were anxious to see revived in the son the popularity of the father. Considering,
however, that Caligula's vicious disposition was already known, and that it had even been an
inducement with Tiberius to procure his succession, in order that it might prove a foil to
his own memory; it is surprising that no effort was made at this juncture to shake off the
despotism which had been so intolerable in the last reign, and restore the ancient liberty
of the republic.  Since the commencement of the imperial dominion, there never had been any
period so favourable for a counter-revolution as the present crisis.  There existed now no
Livia, to influence the minds of the senate and people in respect of the government; nor was
there any other person allied to the family of Germanicus, whose countenance or intrigues could
promote the views of Caligula.  He himself was now only in the twenty-fifth year of his age,
was totally inexperienced in the administration of public affairs, had never performed even
the smallest service to his country, and was generally known to be of a character which (293)
disgraced his illustrious descent.  Yet, in spite of all these circumstances, such was the
destiny of Rome, that his accession afforded joy to the soldiers, who had known him in his
childhood, and to the populace in the capital, as well as the people in the provinces, who
were flattered with the delusive expectation of receiving a prince who should adorn the throne
with the amiable virtues of Germanicus.

It is difficult to say, whether weakness of understanding, or corruption of morals, were more
conspicuous in the character of Caligula.  He seems to have discovered from his earliest years
an innate depravity of mind, which was undoubtedly much increased by defect of education. 
He had lost both his parents at an early period of life; and from Tiberius' own character,
as well as his views in training the person who should succeed him on the throne, there is
reason to think, that if any attention whatever was paid to the education of Caligula, it was
directed to vitiate all his faculties and passions, rather than to correct and improve them.
If such was really the object, it was indeed prosecuted with success.

The commencement, however, of his reign was such as by no means prognosticated its subsequent
transition.  The sudden change of his conduct, the astonishing mixture of imbecility and presumption,
of moral turpitude and frantic extravagance, which he afterwards evinced; such as rolling himself
over heaps of gold, his treatment of his horse Incitatus, and his design of making him consul,
seem to justify a suspicion that his brain had actually been affected, either by the potion,
said to have been given him by his wife Caesonia, or otherwise.  Philtres, or love-potions,
as they were called, were frequent in those times; and the people believed that they operated
upon the mind by a mysterious and sympathetic power.  It is, however, beyond a doubt, that
their effects were produced entirely by the action of their physical qualities upon the organs
of the body.  They were usually made of the satyrion, which, according to Pliny, was a provocative.