" I congratulated
him for his courage and good luck and wished him a pleasant voyage and a happy reunion with
his old friends. About a week later I met Uncle Billy on the street again and said to him,
"How is this Uncle Billy, I thought you were going home on the last steamer?"

"Yes," said he, "I thought so too; at the same time, I thought I would just step into a faro
bank and win just enough to pay my passage home so that I would have even money when I got
home. But instead of that I lost every dollar I had and I am going back into the mountains
again. My readers know the rest."

My friends this is only one of thousands who had the same experience.

In 1868 "the girl I left behind me" went East on a visit of six months, taking with her our
two children.

In the fall of that year (1868) I went to White Pine in Nevada. One might meditate upon the process
of breathing as it is done by the finny tribes. So continuous does it seem that one might believe
it to be the hidden solution to the paradox of perpetual motion.



Chief of Police Martin J. Burke I knew very well in the early sixties. He was a genial and
good natured man, well liked by everybody who knew him. I went to him one time with a curb
bit for a bridle which would bring the curb rein into action with only one pair of reins. He
was much pleased with it and used one for a long while. George C. Shreve, the jeweler, had
one also, as did Charles Kohler, of the firm of Kohler & Frohling, wine men of San Francisco.
He offered me $3000 for my right but I refused it. I applied for a patent only to find that
another was about twenty years ahead of me.

The Donahue Brothers.

James, Peter and Michael Donahue, the founders of the Union Iron Works on First and Mission
streets, were three honorable, upright and just men. Their works have since been removed to
the Potrero south of the Third and Townsend streets depot of the Southern Pacific Co., and
have of late passed into the hands of the United Steel Corporation. They are the largest of
their kind on the Pacific Coast and stand a monument to their founders. James Dunahue built
and owned the Occidental Hotel on Montgomery street between Sutter and Bush streets. Peter
Donahue had the foundry and machine shop. At one time there was a little misunderstanding understanding
between the two and they did not speak to each other for quite a while. During this time Peter
started to build an addition of brick on the north side of the foundry, got up one story and
stopped. The two brothers met one day opposite the unfinished building and James said, "Peter
why don't you go on and finish your building?" Peter replied, "I have not got money enough."
"Oh!" said James, "go ahead and finish it up and I will let you have all the money you want."
'From that time on they resumed their brotherly relations. Peter went on in his business. His
last venture was to build the Petaluma railroad. Both are now dead. Michael went East early
in the '50s and I knew very little of him.

The Take of A Young Bull.

In 1870 I was in the produce commission business in San Francisco and had a consignor in Vacaville
by the name of G. N. Platt who had been presented with a fine young bull by Frank M. Pixley,
who lived in Sausalito, in the hills about two miles from town. Mr. Platt requested me to go
and get the bull and ship him to Vacaville, so I left next morning for Sausalito. Here I sought
a man who could throw the lasso. After two hours I found the man I wanted. He had the mustangs
and all the necessary equipment. We mounted and left for Mr. Pixley's residence where we were
informed that the animal we wanted was somewhere in the hills with the other cattle. This was
rather indefinite information, but we had to make the best of it and started out. Our mustangs
were well calculated for the occasion and we went over the hills like kites. Finally we saw
some cattle about a mile away and we made for them, found what we were in search of and made
for him. He had horns about two inches long and was as light on his feet as a deer, and gave
us a lively chase for about one hour. When we had him at the end of a rope he was determined
to go just the opposite way than we wanted him to, but the man and the mustang at the other
end of the rope had their way part of the time, so after about two hours hard fighting we succeeded
in getting the little fellow down to the wharf where I found that there would not be another
boat until after dark, so I concluded to wait and come over in the morning and ship him. The
next thing was to dispose of the bull for the night. I said, "Here is a coal bunker, we will
put him in here." So after getting permission we started for it with the bull at one end of
the rope and the vaquero at the other. The bull got a little the better of the man and went
up the wharf full tilt with the vaquero in tow. The vaquero said, "There is a post on the wharf,
the bull will go one side and I will go the other and round him up." But he got rounded up
himself and left sprawled out on the wharf. This let the curtain down for the night and the
bull went back to the hills with the rope. I returned to San Francisco, went back in the morning,
hunted up my man and mustangs, mounted and went into the hills again for my bull. This was
a bully ride, I enjoyed it hugely, found our game about noon, picked up the rope with the bull
on the end of it. He was still wild and full of resistance. He was the hardest fellow of his
size that I ever attempted to handle. We made our way back to the landing, found the boat waiting.
I called the boat hands to help put him on board. They came. I put one at his head, one on
each side and one behind, and they all had as much as they wanted to keep control of him. Finally
he was made fast on the boat. While on our way to San Francisco a lady from the upper deck
called down to me, saying, "I will give you one hundred dollars for that bull." I said, "No,
madam, you cannot have him, he is going into the country for business."

After landing in San Francisco I had to take him from one wharf to another so as to take the
Vacaville boat. I got a job wagon and the boat hands to take him out and tie the fellow to
the hind axle of the wagon and then go by his side to the other boat. We fastened him securely
to a stanchion and tagged to his destination. This relieved me of any further responsibility.
I saw him about three years later in Vacaville. He was a fine large fellow with all the fire
in his eye that he had in his younger days. He had a large ring in his nose with a chain running
from it to the end of each horn. Now as my readers have had the bear story, and now the bull
story, they will excuse me on those two subjects.

Admission Day 1875. 

Towards the end of his residence in Paris, He directed the Italian Oprea, Madame Catalina was
then named his successor. In 1820 the Court of Prussia tempted him to move to Berlin by offering
him a great position. While In Berlin he produced 3 grand opreas
Normahal, Alcidor,and Agnes von Hohenstauffen none of which were successful.


The principal places of business, banks and offices were all closed and the buildings and streets
were gaily bedecked with flags and bunting. The "bear flag" being in evidence everywhere. The
shipping presented a pretty sight, the vessels seeming to outvie each other in their efforts
to display the greatest amount of bunting and flags.

One of the features of the day was the parade. The procession started from in front of the
Hall of the Pioneers on Montgomery street north of Jackson, marched along Montgomery to Market,
to Eleventh, to Mission and thence to Woodward's Gardens, where the exercises were held. When
opposite the Lick House, James Lick, the honored president of the society, who reviewed the
passing pioneers from his rooms, was given a rousing salute by each of the delegations as they
passed. In this parade were members of the pioneer organizations from Sacramento, Stockton,
Marysville, Vallejo, Sonoma, Marin, Napa, Mendocino, Lake and Placerville, as well as the parent
organization of San Francisco.

The escort consisted of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Regiments, 2nd Brigade, N. G. C., Col. W. H. L.
Barnes, Col. John McComb and Col. Archie Wason, respectively. Brig. Gen. John Hewston, Jr.,
commanding. Marshal Huefner and his aide followed. Next came the several visiting pioneer organizations,
then the carriages of invited guests, orator, reader and others. Then the home society, turning
out 427 strong.

Among the persons of note to have been seen and who wore the golden badge indicating that they
had come here prior to 1849, were Carlos F. Glein, A. A. Green, A. G. Abel, George Graft, W.
P. Toler, Thos. Edgar, G. W. Ross, P. Kadel, F. Ballhaus, W. C. Hinckley, H. B. Russ, A. G.
Russ, Owen Murry, B. P. Kooser, J. E. Winson, Arthur Cornwall, E. A. Engleberg, Wm. Jeffry,
Capt. Hinckley, Wm. Huefner, Thos. Roche, F. G. Blume, John C. Ball and Thomas Eagar.

Among the others present were Ex-Gox. Low, Mayor Otis, Ex-Sen. Cole, Chas. Clayton, Paul K.
Hubbs of Vallejo, Eleazer Frisbie, L. B. Mizner, Niles Searles, F. W. McKinstry and Dr. O.
M. Wozencraft, a member of the First Constitutional Convention of California.

In the Sonoma delegation were Nicholas Carriger, ex-president and director; Wm. Hargrave, a
member of the original Bear Flag Party of 1846, Mrs. W. M. Boggs and Mrs. A. J. Grayson, who
came here in 1846 in advance of the Donner party. 

After finishing her mother's work in the evening she will sit under the sky and call her children
and talk to them in Dutch as it was the only language she know.

It was the only thing that she can do to help and protect them.

Translation of it in English is as follows. There is a god in the heaven who can see and hear you.
When you are ill treated by others seek the help of him. He is the only person that we can rely
upon.

He is able to save us from all trouble. Then she taught them to kneel
and the Lord's prayer. She warned them from stealing and lying, asked
them to obey their masters.

In addition to these were many others who have since become well known through their doings
in the political arena and business world, and have made names for themselves that are honored
and respected to this day and will ever find a place in this State's history.

At the Pavilion in Woodward's Gardens the literary services were held. D. J. Staples, acting-president,
delivered a stirring address, rehearsing the events of the past 25 years.

Dr. J. B. Stillman then followed with an oration in which he spoke of the gold discovery in
California, the effect upon the East of Col. Mason's report, the sudden influx of seekers of
the "Golden Fleece" by sea and overland, of their hardships and endurance, and their experiences
at the mines, etc., etc.

Mr. J. B. Benton read a poem by Mrs. James Neall.

The literary exercises were followed by a lunch and that by an entertainment of mixed character.
Billy Emerson, Ben Cotton, Billy Rice, Ernest Linden, F. Oberist, W. F. Baker, J. G. Russell
and Billy Arlington of Maguire's Minstrel Troupe, and W. S. Lawton, Capt. Martin and L. P.
Ward, and the Buisley family being among the entertainers.

A balloon ascension followed the entertainment and during the day the "Great Republic" made
an excursion around the bay.

On an S. P. Pay-Car.

