I sat in a great theatre at the National Capital. It was thronged with youth, and beauty, old
age, and wisdom. I saw a man, the image of his God, stand upon the stage, and I heard him speak.
His gestures were the perfection of grace; his voice was music, and his language was more beautiful
than I had ever heard from mortal lips. He painted picture after picture of the pleasures,
and joys, and sympathies, of home. He enthroned love and preached the gospel of humanity like
an angel. Then I saw him dip his brush in ink, and blot out the beautiful picture he had painted.
I saw him stab love dead at his feet. I saw him blot out the stars and the sun, and leave humanity
and the universe in eternal darkness, and eternal death. I saw him like the Serpent of old,
worm himself into the paradise of human hearts, and by his seductive eloquence and the subtle
devices of his sophistry, inject his fatal venom, under whose blight its flowers faded, its
music was hushed, its sunshine was darkened, and the soul was left a desert waste, with only
the new made graves of faith and hope. I saw him, like a lawless, erratic meteor without an
orbit, sweep across the intellectual sky, brilliant only in his self-consuming fire, generated
by friction with the indestructible and eternal truths of God.

That man was the archangel of modern infidelity; and I said: How true is holy writ which declares,
"the fool hath said in his heart, there is no God."

Tell me not, O Infidel, there is no God, no Heaven, no Hell!

  "A solemn murmur in the soul tells of a world to be,
   As travelers hear the billows roll before they reach the sea."

Tell me not, O Infidel, there is no risen Christ!

  When every earthly hope hath fled,
    When angry seas their billows fling,
  How sweet to lean on what He said,
    How firmly to His cross we cling!

What intelligence less than God could fashion the human body? What motive power is it, if it
is not God, that drives that throbbing engine, the human heart, with ceaseless, tireless stroke,
sending the crimson streams of life bounding and circling through every vein and artery? Whence,
and what, if not of God, is this mystery we call the mind? What is this mystery we call the
soul? What is it that thinks and feels and knows and acts? Oh, who can comprehend, who can
deny, the Divinity that stirs within us!

God is everywhere, and in everything. His mystery is in every bud, and blossom, and leaf, and
tree; in every rock, and hill, and vale, and mountain; in every spring, and rivulet, and river.
The rustle of His wing is in every zephyr; its might is in every tempest. He dwells in the
dark pavilions of every storm cloud. The lightning is His messenger, and the thunder is His
voice. His awful tread is in every earthquake and on every angry ocean; and the heavens above
us teem with His myriads of shining witnesses. The universe of solar systems whose wheeling
orbs course the crystal paths of space proclaim through the dread halls of eternity, the glory,
and power, and dominion, of the all-wise, omnipotent, and eternal God.

"VISIONS AND DREAMS."

The infinite wisdom of Almighty God has made a plane of intelligence, and a horizon of happiness,
for every being in the universe, from the butterfly to the archangel. And every plane has its
own horizon, narrowest and darkest on the lowest level, but broad as the universe on the highest.
Man stands on that wondrous plane where mortality and immortality meet. Below him is animal
life, lighted only by the dim lamp of instinct; above him is spiritual life, illuminated by
the light of reason and the glory of God. Below him is this old material world of rock, and
hill, and vale, and mountain; above him is the mysterious world of the imagination whose rivers
are dreams, whose continents are visions of beauty, and upon whose shadowy shores the surfs
of phantom seas forever break.

We hear the song of the cricket on the hearth, and the joyous hum of the bees among the poppies;
we hear the light-winged lark gladden the morning with her song, and the silver-throated thrush
warble in the tree-top. What are these, and all the sweet melodies we hear, but echoes from
the realm of visions and dreams?

The humming-bird, that swift fairy of the rainbow, fluttering down from the land of the sun
when June scatters her roses northward, and poising on wings that never weary, kisses the nectar
from the waiting flowers; how bright and beautiful is the horizon of his little life! How sweet
is the dream of the covert in the deep mountain gorge, to the trembling, panting deer in his
flight before the hunter's horn and the yelping hounds! How dear to the heart of the weary
ox is the vision of green fields and splashing waters! And down on the farm, when the cows
come home at sunset, fragrant with the breath of clover blossoms, how rich is the feast of
happiness when the frolicsome calf bounds forward to the flowing udder, and with his walling
eyes reflecting whole acres of "calf heaven" and his little tail wiggling in speechless bliss,
he draws his evening meal from nature's commissariat. The snail lolls in his shell and thinks
himself a king in the grandest palace in the world. And how brilliant is the horizon of the
firefly when he winks his "other eye!"

The red worm delves in the sod and dines on clay; he makes no after-dinner speeches; he never
responds to a toast; but silently revels on in his dark banquet halls under the dank violets
or in the rich mould by the river. But the red worm never reaches the goal of his visions and
dreams until he is triumphantly impaled on the fishhook of the barefooted boy,

  Who sees other visions and dreams other dreams,
  Of fluttering suckers in shining streams.

And Oh, there is no thrill half so rapturous to the barefooted boy as the thrill of a nibble!
Two darkies sat on a rock on the bank of a river, fishing. One was an old darkey; the other
was a boy. The boy got a nibble, his foot slipped, and he fell headlong into the surging waters
and began to float out to the middle of the stream, sinking, and rising, and struggling, and
crying for help. The old man hesitated on the rock for a moment; then he plunged in after the
drowning boy, and after a desperate struggle, landed his companion safely on shore. A passer-by
ran up to the old darkey and patted him on the shoulder and said: "Old man, that was a noble
deed in you, to risk your life that way to save that good-for-nothing boy." "Yes boss," mumbled
the old man, "I was obleeged ter save dat nigger, he had all de bate in his pocket!"

THE HAPPY LONG AGO.

Not long ago I wandered back to the scenes of my boyhood, on my father's old plantation on
the bank of the river, in the beautiful land of my native mountains. I rambled again in the
pathless woods with my rifle on my shoulder. I sat on the old familiar logs amid the falling
leaves of autumn and heard the squirrels bark and shake the branches as they jumped from tree
to tree. I heard the katydid sing, and the whip-poor-will, and the deep basso-profundo of the
bullfrog on the bank of the pond. I heard the drumming of a pheasant and the hoot of a wise
old owl away over in "Sleepy Hollow." I heard the tinkling of bells on the distant hills, sweetly
mingling with the happy chorus of the song birds in their evening serenade. Every living creature
seemed to be chanting a hymn of praise to its God; and as I sat there and listened to the weird,
wild harmonies, a vision of the past opened before me. I thought I was a boy again, and played
around the cabins of the old time darkies, and heard them laugh and sing and tell their stories
as they used to long ago. My hair stood on ends again (I was afflicted with hair when I was
a boy), and the chills played up and down my back when I remembered old Uncle Rufus' story
of the panthers. He said: "Many years ago, Mas. Jeems was a-gwine along de path by de graveyard
late in de evenin', an' bless de Lo'd, all of a sudden he looked up, an' dar was a painter
crouchin' down befo' 'im, a-pattin' de ground wid his tail, an' ready to spring. Mas. Jeems
wheeled to run, an' bless de Lo'd, dar was annudder painter, crouchin' an' pattin' de groun'
wid his tail, in de path behind him, an' ready to spring. An' boaf ov dem painters sprung at
de same time, right toards Mas. Jeemses head; Mas. Jeems jumped to one side. An' dem painters
come to-gedder in de air. An' da was a-gwine so fast, an' da struck each udder wid sitch turble
ambition dat instid ov comin' down, da went up. An' bless de Lo'd, Mas. Jeems stood dar an'
watched dem painters go on up, an' up, an' up, till da went clean out o' sight a-fightin'.
An' bless de Lo'd, de hair was a-fallin' for three days. Which fulfills de words ob de scripchah
whar it reads, 'De young men shall dream dreams, an' de ol' men shall see visions.'"

I remembered the tale Uncle Solomon used to tell about the first convention that was ever held
in the world. He said: "It wuz a convenchun ov de animils. Bruder Fox wuz dar, an' Brudder
Wolf, an' Brudder Rabbit, an' all de rest ov de animil kingdom wuz geddered togedder fur to
settle some questions concarnin' de happiness ov de animil kingdom. De first question dat riz
befo' de convenchun wuz, how da should vote. Brudder Coon, he took de floah an' moved dat de
convenchun vote by raisin' der tails; whereupon Brudder Possum riz wid a grin ov disgust, an'
said: 'Mr. Chaiahman, I's unanimous opposed to dat motion: Brudder Coon wants dis couvenchun
to vote by raisin' der tails, kase Brudder Coon's got a ring striped an' streaked tail, an'
wants to show it befo' de convenchun. Brudder Coon knows dat de 'possum is afflicted wid an
ole black rusty tail, an I consider dat moshun an insult to de 'possum race; an' besides dat,
Mr. Chaiahman, if you passes dis moshun for to vote by raisin yo' tails, de Billy-Goat's already
voted!'"

I sometimes think that Uncle Solomon's homely story of the goat would be a splendid illustration
of some of our modern politicians. It is difficult to tell which side of the question they are on.

I remembered the yarn Uncle Yaddie once spun at the expense of Uncle Rastus. Rastus looked
sour and said: "You bettah not go too fur; I'll tell about dem watermillions what disappeared
frum Mas. Landon's watermillion patch." But Uncle Yaddie was undismayed by the threatened attack
upon his own record, and said: "Some time ago Rastus concluded to go into de egg bizness, an'
he prayed to de Lo'd to send him some hens, but somehow or nudder de hens never come; an' den
he prayed to de Lo'd to send him after de hens, an' lo! an' behold! nex' mornin' his lot wus
full ov chickens. Rastus fixed de nestiz, an' waited, an' waited fur de hens to lay, but somehow
or nudder de hens wouldn't lay dat summer at all; an' Rastus kep git'n madder an' madder, till
one day de ole rooster hopped up on de porch an begun to flop his wings an' crow. Rastus looked
at him sideways, an' muttered, 'Yes! floppin' yo' wings an' crowin' aroun' heah like an ole
fool, an' you caint lay a egg to save yo' life!'"

The darkies fell over in the floor, and every body laughed except Rastus. But to appease his
wrath, Uncle Yaddie rolled out a big "watermillion" from under the bed, which lighted up the
face of the frowning old Rastus with smiles, and as the luscious red pulp melted away in his
mouth, he cut the "pigeon wing" in the middle of the floor, and sang like a mocking bird:

  "Oh, de honeymoon am sweet,
   De chicken am good,
   De 'possum, it am very very fine,
   But give me, O, give me,
   Oh, how I wish you would!
   Dat watermillion hanging' on de vine!"

