The object of these pages is not to idealise either his life, his character, or his works.
The three are inseparably connected, and to understand one we must understand all. The reason
is that Shelley is one of the most subjective of writers. It would be hard to name a poet who
has kept his art more free from all taint of representation of the real, making it nor an instrument
for creating something life-like, but a more and more intimate echo or emanation of his own
spirit. In studying his writings we shall see how they flow from his dominating emotion of
love for his fellow-men; and the drama of his life, displayed against the background of the
time, will in turn throw light on that emotion. His benevolence took many forms--none perfect,
some admirable, some ridiculous. It was too universal. He never had a clear enough perception
of the real qualities of real men and women; hence his loves for individuals, as capricious
as they were violent, always seem to lack something which is perhaps the most valuable element
in human affection. If in this way we can analyse his temperament successfully, the process
should help us to a more critical understanding, and so to a fuller enjoyment, of the poems.

This greatest of our lyric poets, the culmination of the Romantic Movement in English literature,
appeared in an age which, following on the series of successful wars that had established British
power all over the world, was one of the gloomiest in our history. If in some ways the England
of 1800-20 was ahead of the rest of Europe, in others it lagged far behind. The Industrial
Revolution, which was to turn us from a nation of peasants and traders into a nation of manufacturers,
had begun; but its chief fruits as yet were increased materialism and greed, and politically
the period was one of blackest reaction. Alone of European peoples we had been untouched by
the tide of Napoleon's conquests, which, when it receded from the Continent, at least left
behind a framework of enlightened institutions, while our success in the Napoleonic wars only
confirmed the ruling aristocratic families in their grip of the nation which they had governed
since the reign of Anne. This despotism crushed the humble and stimulated the high-spirited
to violence, and is the reason why three such poets as Byron, Landor, and Shelley, though by
birth and fortune members of the ruling class, were pioneers as much of political as of spiritual
rebellion. Unable to breathe the atmosphere of England, they were driven to live in exile.

It requires some effort to reconstruct that atmosphere to-day. A foreign critic [Dr. George
Brandes, in vol. iv. of his 'Main Currents of Nineteenth Century Literature'] has summed it
up by saying that England was then pre-eminently the home of cant; while in politics her native
energy was diverted to oppression, in morals and religion it took the form of hypocrisy and
persecution. Abroad she was supporting the Holy Alliance, throwing her weight into the scale
against all movements for freedom. At home there was exhaustion after war; workmen were thrown
out of employment, and taxation pressed heavily on high rents and the high price of corn, was
made cruel by fear; for the French Revolution had sent a wave of panic through the country,
not to ebb until about 1830. Suspicion of republican principles--which, it seemed, led straight
to the Terror--frightened many good men, who would otherwise have been reformers, into supporting
the triumph of coercion and Toryism. The elder generation of poets had been republicans in
their youth. Wordsworth had said of the Revolution that it was "bliss to be alive" in that
dawn; Southey and Coleridge had even planned to found a communistic society in the New World.
Now all three were rallied to the defence of order and property, to Church and Throne and Constitution.