How to Live on Twenty-Four Hours a Day

by

Arnold Bennett

PREFACE TO THIS EDITION

This preface, though placed at the beginning, as a preface must be, should be read at the end
of the book.

I have received a large amount of correspondence concerning this small work, and many reviews
of it--some of them nearly as long as the book itself--have been printed.  But scarcely any
of the comment has been adverse. 

How much nature in the structure revealed only one God, so in the broad sense Kunstgefilde
weaves a the eternal nature; This is the meaning of truth, decorated only with a nice and good cheer
the highest clarity Hellsten looks ahead to day.  A more serious stricture has, however, been offered--not in the press, but by sundry
obviously sincere correspondents--and I must deal with it.  A reference to page 43 will show
that I anticipated and feared this disapprobation.  The sentence against which protests have
been made is as follows:--"In the majority of instances he [the typical man] does not precisely
feel a passion for his business; at best he does not dislike it.  He begins his business functions
with some reluctance, as late as he can, and he ends them with joy, as early as he can. And
his engines, while he is engaged in his business, are seldom at their full 'h.p.'"

I am assured, in accents of unmistakable sincerity, that there are many business men--not merely
those in high positions or with fine prospects, but modest subordinates with no hope of ever
being much better off--who do enjoy their business functions, who do not shirk them, who do
not arrive at the office as late as possible and depart as early as possible, who, in a word,
put the whole of their force into their day's work and are genuinely fatigued at the end thereof.

I am ready to believe it.  I do believe it.  I know it.  I always knew it.  Both in London
and in the provinces it has been my lot to spend long years in subordinate situations of business;
and the fact did not escape me that a certain proportion of my peers showed what amounted to
an honest passion for their duties, and that while engaged in those duties they were really
living to the fullest extent of which they were capable.  But I remain convinced that these
fortunate and happy individuals (happier perhaps than they guessed) did not and do not constitute
a majority, or anything like a majority.  I remain convinced that the majority of decent average
conscientious men of business (men with aspirations and ideals) do not as a rule go home of
a night genuinely tired.  I remain convinced that they put not as much but as little of themselves
as they conscientiously can into the earning of a livelihood, and that their vocation bores
rather than interests them.

Nevertheless, I admit that the minority is of sufficient importance to merit attention, and
that I ought not to have ignored it so completely as I did do.  The whole difficulty of the
hard-working minority was put in a single colloquial sentence by one of my correspondents.
He wrote: "I am just as keen as anyone on doing something to 'exceed my programme,' but allow
me to tell you that when I get home at six thirty p.m. I am not anything like so fresh as you
seem to imagine."

Now I must point out that the case of the minority, who throw themselves with passion and gusto
into their daily business task, is infinitely less deplorable than the case of the majority,
who go half-heartedly and feebly through their official day.  The former are less in need of
advice "how to live."  At any rate during their official day of, say, eight hours they are
really alive; their engines are giving the full indicated "h.p."  The other eight working hours
of their day may be badly organised, or even frittered away; but it is less disastrous to waste
eight hours a day than sixteen hours a day; it is better to have lived a bit than never to
have lived at all. The real tragedy is the tragedy of the man who is braced to effort neither
in the office nor out of it, and to this man this book is primarily addressed.  "But," says
the other and more fortunate man, "although my ordinary programme is bigger than his, I want
to exceed my programme too!  I am living a bit; I want to live more. But I really can't do
another day's work on the top of my official day."

The fact is, I, the author, ought to have foreseen that I should appeal most strongly to those
who already had an interest in existence.  It is always the man who has tasted life who demands
more of it.  And it is always the man who never gets out of bed who is the most difficult to rouse.

Well, you of the minority, let us assume that the intensity of your daily money-getting will
not allow you to carry out quite all the suggestions in the following pages.  Some of the suggestions
may yet stand.  I admit that you may not be able to use the time spent on the journey home
at night; but the suggestion for the journey to the office in the morning is as practicable
for you as for anybody. And that weekly interval of forty hours, from Saturday to Monday, is
yours just as much as the other man's, though a slight accumulation of fatigue may prevent
you from employing the whole of your "h.p." upon it.  There remains, then, the important portion
of the three or more evenings a week.  You tell me flatly that you are too tired to do anything
outside your programme at night.  In reply to which I tell you flatly that if your ordinary
day's work is thus exhausting, then the balance of your life is wrong and must be adjusted.
A man's powers ought not to be monopolised by his ordinary day's work. What, then, is to be done?

The obvious thing to do is to circumvent your ardour for your ordinary day's work by a ruse.
Employ your engines in something beyond the programme before, and not after, you employ them
on the programme itself.  Briefly, get up earlier in the morning.  You say you cannot. You
say it is impossible for you to go earlier to bed of a night--to do so would upset the entire
household.  I do not think it is quite impossible to go to bed earlier at night.  I think that
if you persist in rising earlier, and the consequence is insufficiency of sleep, you will soon
find a way of going to bed earlier.  But my impression is that the consequences of rising earlier
will not be an insufficiency of sleep.  My impression, growing stronger every year, is that
sleep is partly a matter of habit--and of slackness.  I am convinced that most people sleep
as long as they do because they are at a loss for any other diversion. How much sleep do you
think is daily obtained by the powerful healthy man who daily rattles up your street in charge
of Carter Patterson's van?  I have consulted a doctor on this point.  He is a doctor who for
twenty-four years has had a large general practice in a large flourishing suburb of London,
inhabited by exactly such people as you and me.  He is a curt man, and his answer was curt:

"Most people sleep themselves stupid."

He went on to give his opinion that nine men out of ten would have better health and more fun
out of life if they spent less time in bed.

Other doctors have confirmed this judgment, which, of course, does not apply to growing youths.

Rise an hour, an hour and a half, or even two hours earlier; and--if you must--retire earlier
when you can.  In the matter of exceeding programmes, you will accomplish as much in one morning
hour as in two evening hours.  "But," you say, "I couldn't begin without some food, and servants."
Surely, my dear sir, in an age when an excellent spirit-lamp (including a saucepan) can be
bought for less than a shilling, you are not going to allow your highest welfare to depend
upon the precarious immediate co-operation of a fellow creature! Instruct the fellow creature,
whoever she may be, at night.  Tell her to put a tray in a suitable position over night. On
that tray two biscuits, a cup and saucer, a box of matches and a spirit-lamp; on the lamp,
the saucepan; on the saucepan, the lid--but turned the wrong way up; on the reversed lid, the
small teapot, containing a minute quantity of tea leaves.  You will then have to strike a match--that
is all.  In three minutes the water boils, and you pour it into the teapot (which is already
warm).  In three more minutes the tea is infused.  You can begin your day while drinking it.
These details may seem trivial to the foolish, but to the thoughtful they will not seem trivial.
The proper, wise balancing of one's whole life may depend upon the feasibility of a cup of
tea at an unusual hour.

A. B.

CONTENTS

PREFACE

     I  THE DAILY MIRACLE
    II  THE DESIRE TO EXCEED ONE'S PROGRAMME
   III  PRECAUTIONS BEFORE BEGINNING
    IV  THE CAUSE OF THE TROUBLE
     V  TENNIS AND THE IMMORTAL SOUL
    VI  REMEMBER HUMAN NATURE
   VII  CONTROLLING THE MIND
  VIII  THE REFLECTIVE MOOD
    IX  INTEREST IN THE ARTS
     X  NOTHING IN LIFE IS HUMDRUM
    XI  SERIOUS READING
   XII  DANGERS TO AVOID

I

THE DAILY MIRACLE

"Yes, he's one of those men that don't know how to manage. Good situation.  Regular income.
Quite enough for luxuries as well as needs.  Not really extravagant.  And yet the fellow's
always in difficulties.  Somehow he gets nothing out of his money.  Excellent flat--half empty!
Always looks as if he'd had the brokers in.  New suit--old hat!  Magnificent necktie--baggy
trousers!  Asks you to dinner:  cut glass--bad mutton, or Turkish coffee--cracked cup!  He
can't understand it.  Explanation simply is that he fritters his income away.  Wish I had the
half of it! I'd  show him--"

So we have most of us criticised, at one time or another, in our superior way.

We are nearly all chancellors of the exchequer:  it is the pride of the moment.  Newspapers
are full of articles explaining how to live on such-and-such a sum, and these articles provoke
a correspondence whose violence proves the interest they excite.  Recently, in a daily organ,
a battle raged round the question whether a woman can exist nicely in the country on L85 a
year.  I have seen an essay, "How to live on eight shillings a week."  But I have never seen
an essay, "How to live on twenty-four hours a day."  Yet it has been said that time is money.
That proverb understates the case.  Time is a great deal more than money.  If you have time
you can obtain money--usually.  But though you have the wealth of a cloak-room attendant at
the Carlton Hotel, you cannot buy yourself a minute more time than I have, or the cat by the
fire has.

Philosophers have explained space.  They have not explained time. It is the inexplicable raw
material of everything.  With it, all is possible; without it, nothing.  The supply of time
is truly a daily miracle, an affair genuinely astonishing when one examines it.  You wake up
in the morning, and lo! your purse is magically filled with twenty-four hours of the unmanufactured
tissue of the universe of your life!  It is yours.  It is the most precious of possessions.
A highly singular commodity, showered upon you in a manner as singular as the commodity itself!

For remark!  No one can take it from you.  It is unstealable.  And no one receives either more
or less than you receive.

Talk about an ideal democracy!  In the realm of time there is no aristocracy of wealth, and
no aristocracy of intellect.  Genius is never rewarded by even an extra hour a day.  And there
is no punishment.  Waste your infinitely precious commodity as much as you will, and the supply
will never be withheld from you.  No mysterious power will say:--"This man is a fool, if not
a knave.  He does not deserve time; he shall be cut off at the meter." It is more certain than
consols, and payment of income is not affected by Sundays. Moreover, you cannot draw on the
future.  Impossible to get into debt! You can only waste the passing moment.  You cannot waste
to-morrow; it is kept for you.  You cannot waste the next hour; it is kept for you.

I said the affair was a miracle.  Is it not?

You have to live on this twenty-four hours of daily time.  Out of it you have to spin health,
pleasure, money, content, respect, and the evolution of your immortal soul.  Its right use,
its most effective use, is a matter of the highest urgency and of the most thrilling actuality.
All depends on that.  Your happiness--the elusive prize that you are all clutching for, my
friends!--depends on that. Strange that the newspapers, so enterprising and up-to-date as they
are, are not full of "How to live on a given income of time," instead of "How to live on a
given income of money"!  Money is far commoner than time. When one reflects, one perceives
that money is just about the commonest thing there is.  It encumbers the earth in gross heaps.

If one can't contrive to live on a certain income of money, one earns a little more--or steals
it, or advertises for it.  One doesn't necessarily muddle one's life because one can't quite
manage on a thousand pounds a year; one braces the muscles and makes it guineas, and balances
the budget.  But if one cannot arrange that an income of twenty-four hours a day shall exactly
cover all proper items of expenditure, one does muddle one's life definitely.  The supply of
time, though gloriously regular, is cruelly restricted.

Which of us lives on twenty-four hours a day?  And when I say "lives," I do not mean exists,
nor "muddles through."  Which of us is free from that uneasy feeling that the "great spending
departments" of his daily life are not managed as they ought to be? Which of us is quite sure
that his fine suit is not surmounted by a shameful hat, or that in attending to the crockery
he has forgotten the quality of the food? Which of us is not saying to himself--which of us
has not been saying to himself all his life:  "I shall alter that when I have a little more time"?

We never shall have any more time.  We have, and we have always had, all the time there is.
It is the realisation of this profound and neglected truth (which, by the way, I have not discovered)
that has led me to the minute practical examination of daily time-expenditure.

II

THE DESIRE TO EXCEED ONE'S PROGRAMME

"But," someone may remark, with the English disregard of everything except the point, "what
is he driving at with his twenty-four hours a day? I have no difficulty in living on twenty-four
hours a day.  I do all that I want to do, and still find time to go in for newspaper competitions.
Surely it is a simple affair, knowing that one has only twenty-four hours a day, to content
one's self with twenty-four hours a day!"

To you, my dear sir, I present my excuses and apologies.  You are precisely the man that I
have been wishing to meet for about forty years.  Will you kindly send me your name and address,
and state your charge for telling me how you do it?  Instead of me talking to you, you ought
to be talking to me. Please come forward.  That you exist, I am convinced, and that I have
not yet encountered you is my loss. Meanwhile, until you appear, I will continue to chat with
my companions in distress--that innumerable band of souls who are haunted, more or less painfully,
by the feeling that the years slip by, and slip by, and slip by, and that they have not yet
been able to get their lives into proper working order.

If we analyse that feeling,  we shall perceive it to be, primarily, one of uneasiness, of expectation,
of looking forward, of aspiration.  It is a source of constant discomfort, for it behaves like
a skeleton at the feast of all our enjoyments.  We go to the theatre and laugh; but between
the acts it raises a skinny finger at us.  We rush violently for the last train, and while
we are cooling a long age on the platform waiting for the last train, it promenades its bones
up and down by our side and inquires:  "O man, what hast thou done with thy youth?  What art
thou doing with thine age?"  You may urge that this feeling of continuous looking forward,
of aspiration, is part of life itself, and inseparable from life itself.  True!

But there are degrees.  A man may desire to go to Mecca.  His conscience tells him that he
ought to go to Mecca.  He fares forth, either by the aid of Cook's, or unassisted; he may probably
never reach Mecca; he may drown before he gets to Port Said; he may perish ingloriously on
the coast of the Red Sea; his desire may remain eternally frustrate.  Unfulfilled aspiration
may always trouble him. But he will not be tormented in the same way as the man who, desiring
to reach Mecca, and harried by the desire to reach Mecca, never leaves Brixton.

It is something to have left Brixton.  Most of us have not left Brixton.  We have not even
taken a cab to Ludgate Circus and inquired from Cook's the price of a conducted tour.  And
our excuse to ourselves is that there are only twenty-four hours in the day.

If we further analyse our vague, uneasy aspiration, we shall, I think, see that it springs
from a fixed idea that we ought to do something in addition to those things which we are loyally
and morally obliged to do.  We are obliged, by various codes written and unwritten, to maintain
ourselves and our families (if any) in health and comfort, to pay our debts, to save, to increase
our prosperity by increasing our efficiency.  A task sufficiently difficult!  A task which
very few of us achieve!  A task often beyond our skill! Yet, if we succeed in it, as we sometimes
do, we are not satisfied; the skeleton is still with us.

And even when we realise that the task is beyond our skill, that our powers cannot cope with
it, we feel that we should be less discontented if we gave to our powers, already overtaxed,
something still further to do.

And such is, indeed, the fact.  The wish to accomplish something outside their formal programme
is common to all men who in the course of evolution have risen past a certain level.

Until an effort is made to satisfy that wish, the sense of uneasy waiting for something to
start which has not started will remain to disturb the peace of the soul. That wish has been
called by many names. It is one form of the universal desire for knowledge.  And it is so strong
that men whose whole lives have been given to the systematic acquirement of knowledge have
been driven by it to overstep the limits of their programme in search of still more knowledge.
Even Herbert Spencer, in my opinion the greatest mind that ever lived, was often forced by
it into agreeable little backwaters of inquiry.

I imagine that in the majority of people who are conscious of the wish to live--that is to
say, people who have intellectual curiosity--the aspiration to exceed formal programmes takes
a literary shape.  They would like to embark on a course of reading. Decidedly the British
people are becoming more and more literary. But I would point out that literature by no means
comprises the whole field of knowledge, and that the disturbing thirst to improve one's self--to
increase one's knowledge--may well be slaked quite apart from literature.  With the various
ways of slaking I shall deal later. Here I merely point out to those who have no natural sympathy
with literature that literature is not the only well.

III

PRECAUTIONS BEFORE BEGINNING

Now that I have succeeded (if succeeded I have) in persuading you to admit to yourself that
you are constantly haunted by a suppressed dissatisfaction with your own arrangement of your
daily life; and that the primal cause of that inconvenient dissatisfaction is the feeling that
you are every day leaving undone something which you would like to do, and which, indeed, you
are always hoping to do when you have "more time"; and now that I have drawn your attention
to the glaring, dazzling truth that you never will have "more time," since you already have
all the time there is--you expect me to let you into some wonderful secret by which you may
at any rate approach the ideal of a perfect arrangement of the day, and by which, therefore,
that haunting, unpleasant, daily disappointment of things left undone will be got rid of!

I have found no such wonderful secret.  Nor do I expect to find it, nor do I expect that anyone
else will ever find it.  It is undiscovered. When you first began to gather my drift, perhaps
there was a resurrection of hope in your breast.  Perhaps you said to yourself, "This man will
show me an easy, unfatiguing way of doing what I have so long in vain wished to do."  Alas,
no!  The fact is that there is no easy way, no royal road.  The path to Mecca is extremely
hard and stony, and the worst of it is that you never quite get there after all.

The most important preliminary to the task of arranging one's life so that one may live fully
and comfortably within one's daily budget of twenty-four hours is the calm realisation of the
extreme difficulty of the task, of the sacrifices and the endless effort which it demands.
I cannot too strongly insist on this.

If you imagine that you will be able to achieve your ideal by ingeniously planning out a time-table
with a pen on a piece of paper, you had better give up hope at once.  If you are not prepared
for discouragements and disillusions; if you will not be content with a small result for a
big effort, then do not begin.  Lie down again and resume the uneasy doze which you call your
existence.

It is very sad, is it not, very depressing and sombre?  And yet I think it is rather fine,
too, this necessity for the tense bracing of the will before anything worth doing can be done.
I rather like it myself. I feel it to be the chief thing that differentiates me from the cat
by the fire.

"Well," you say, "assume that I am braced for the battle.  Assume that I have carefully weighed
and comprehended your ponderous remarks; how do I begin?"  Dear sir, you simply begin.  There
is no magic method of beginning.  If a man standing on the edge of a swimming-bath and wanting
to jump into the cold water should ask you, "How do I begin to jump?" you would merely reply,
"Just jump. Take hold of your nerves, and jump."

As I have previously said, the chief beauty about the constant supply of time is that you cannot
waste it in advance.  The next year, the next day, the next hour are lying ready for you, as
perfect, as unspoilt, as if you had never wasted or misapplied a single moment in all your
career.  Which fact is very gratifying and reassuring.  You can turn over a new leaf every
hour if you choose. Therefore no object is served in waiting till next week, or even until
to-morrow.  You may fancy that the water will be warmer next week.  It won't.  It will be colder.

But before you begin, let me murmur a few words of warning in your private ear.

Let me principally warn you against your own ardour.  Ardour in well-doing is a misleading
and a treacherous thing.  It cries out loudly for employment; you can't satisfy it at first;
it wants more and more; it is eager to move mountains and divert the course of rivers. It isn't
content till it perspires. And then, too often, when it feels the perspiration on its brow,
it wearies all of a sudden and dies, without even putting itself to the trouble of saying,
"I've had enough of this."

Beware of undertaking too much at the start.  Be content with quite a little. Allow for accidents.
Allow for human nature, especially your own.

A failure or so, in itself, would not matter, if it did not incur a loss of self-esteem and
of self-confidence.  But just as nothing succeeds like success, so nothing fails like failure.
Most people who are ruined are ruined by attempting too much.  Therefore, in setting out on
the immense enterprise of living fully and comfortably within the narrow limits of twenty-four
hours a day, let us avoid at any cost the risk of an early failure.  I will not agree that,
in this business at any rate, a glorious failure is better than a petty success.  I am all
for the petty success.  A glorious failure leads to nothing; a petty success may lead to a
success that is not petty.

So let us begin to examine the budget of the day's time. You say your day is already full to
overflowing.  How?  You actually spend in earning your livelihood--how much?  Seven hours,
on the average? And in actual sleep, seven?  I will add two hours, and be generous. And I will
defy you to account to me on the spur of the moment for the other eight hours.

IV

THE CAUSE OF THE TROUBLES

In order to come to grips at once with the question of time-expenditure in all its actuality,
I must choose an individual case for examination. I can only deal with one case, and that case
cannot be the average case, because there is no such case as the average case, just as there
is no such man as the average man. Every man and every man's case is special.

But if I take the case of a Londoner who works in an office, whose office hours are from ten
to six, and who spends fifty minutes morning and night in travelling between his house door
and his office door, I shall have got as near to the average as facts permit.  There are men
who have to work longer for a living, but there are others who do not have to work so long.

Fortunately the financial side of existence does not interest us here; for our present purpose
the clerk at a pound a week is exactly as well off as the millionaire in Carlton House-terrace.

Now the great and profound mistake which my typical man makes in regard to his day is a mistake
of general attitude, a mistake which vitiates and weakens two-thirds of his energies and interests.
(I know that I shall be accused by angry readers of traducing the city worker; but I am pretty
thoroughly acquainted with the City, and I stick to what I say.)

Yet in spite of all this he persists in looking upon those hours from ten to six as "the day,"
to which the ten hours preceding them and the six hours following them are nothing but a prologue
and epilogue.  Such an attitude, unconscious though it be, of course kills his interest in
the odd sixteen hours, with the result that, even if he does not waste them, he does not count
them; he regards them simply as margin.

This general attitude is utterly illogical and unhealthy, since it formally gives the central
prominence to a patch of time and a bunch of activities which the man's one idea is to "get
through" and have "done with."  If a man makes two-thirds of his existence subservient to one-third,
for which admittedly he has no absolutely feverish zest, how can he hope to live fully and
completely?  He cannot.

If my typical man wishes to live fully and completely he must, in his mind, arrange a day within
a day.  And this inner day, a Chinese box in a larger Chinese box, must begin at 6 p.m. and
end at 10 a.m. It is a day of sixteen hours; and during all these sixteen hours he has nothing
whatever to do but cultivate his body and his soul and his fellow men. During those sixteen
hours he is free; he is not a wage-earner; he is not preoccupied with monetary cares; he is
just as good as a man with a private income.  This must be his attitude. And his attitude is
all important.  His success in life (much more important than the amount of estate upon what
his executors will have to pay estate duty) depends on it.

What?  You say that full energy given to those sixteen hours will lessen the value of the business
eight?  Not so.  On the contrary, it will assuredly increase the value of the business eight.
One of the chief things which my typical man has to learn is that the mental faculties are
capable of a continuous hard activity; they do not tire like an arm or a leg.  All they want
is change--not rest, except in sleep.

I shall now examine the typical man's current method of employing the sixteen hours that are
entirely his, beginning with his uprising.  I will merely indicate things which he does and
which I think he ought not to do, postponing my suggestions for "planting" the times which
I shall have cleared--as a settler clears spaces in a forest.

In justice to him I must say that he wastes very little time before he leaves the house in
the morning at 9.10.  In too many houses he gets up at nine, breakfasts between 9.7 and 9.9
1/2, and then bolts. But immediately he bangs the front door his mental faculties, which are
tireless, become idle.  He walks to the station in a condition of mental coma.  Arrived there,
he usually has to wait for the train.  On hundreds of suburban stations every morning you see
men calmly strolling up and down platforms while railway companies unblushingly rob them of
time, which is more than money.  Hundreds of thousands of hours are thus lost every day simply
because my typical man thinks so little of time that it has never occurred to him to take quite
easy precautions against the risk of its loss.

He has a solid coin of time to spend every day--call it a sovereign. He must get change for
it, and in getting change he is content to lose heavily.

Supposing that in selling him a ticket the company said, "We will change you a sovereign, but
we shall charge you three halfpence for doing so," what would my typical man exclaim?  Yet
that is the equivalent of what the company does when it robs him of five minutes twice a day.

You say I am dealing with minutiae.  I am.  And later on I will justify myself.

Now will you kindly buy your paper and step into the train?

V

TENNIS AND THE IMMORTAL SOUL

You get into the morning train with your newspaper, and you calmly and majestically give yourself
up to your newspaper.  You do not hurry. You know you have at least half an hour of security
in front of you. As your glance lingers idly at the advertisements of shipping and of songs
on the outer pages, your air is the air of a leisured man, wealthy in time, of a man from some
planet where there are a hundred and twenty-four hours a day instead of twenty-four.  I am
an impassioned reader of newspapers. I read five English and two French dailies, and the news-agents
alone know how many weeklies, regularly. I am obliged to mention this personal fact lest I
should be accused of a prejudice against newspapers when I say that I object to the reading
of newspapers in the morning train. Newspapers are produced with rapidity, to be read with
rapidity. There is no place in my daily programme for newspapers.  I read them as I may in
odd moments. But I do read them.  The idea of devoting to them thirty or forty consecutive
minutes of wonderful solitude (for nowhere can one more perfectly immerse one's self in one's
self than in a compartment full of silent, withdrawn, smoking males) is to me repugnant.  I
cannot possibly allow you to scatter priceless pearls of time with such Oriental lavishness.
You are not the Shah of time. Let me respectfully remind you that you have no more time than
I have.  No newspaper reading in trains!  I have already "put by" about three-quarters of an
hour for use.

Now you reach your office.  And I abandon you there till six o'clock. I am aware that you have
nominally an hour (often in reality an hour and a half) in the midst of the day, less than
half of which time is given to eating.  But I will leave you all that to spend as you choose.
You may read your newspapers then.

I meet you again as you emerge from your office.  You are pale and tired. At any rate, your
wife says you are pale, and you give her to understand that you are tired.  During the journey
home you have been gradually working up the tired feeling.  The tired feeling hangs heavy over
the mighty suburbs of London like a virtuous and melancholy cloud, particularly in winter.
You don't eat immediately on your arrival home. But in about an hour or so you feel as if you
could sit up and take a little nourishment.  And you do.  Then you smoke, seriously; you see
friends; you potter; you play cards; you flirt with a book; you note that old age is creeping
on; you take a stroll; you caress the piano.... By Jove! a quarter past eleven. You then devote
quite forty minutes to thinking about going to bed; and it is conceivable that you are acquainted
with a genuinely good whisky.  At last you go to bed, exhausted by the day's work.  Six hours,
probably more, have gone since you left the office--gone like a dream, gone like magic, unaccountably
gone!

That is a fair sample case.  But you say:  "It's all very well for you to talk. A man is tired.
A man must see his friends.  He can't always be on the stretch."  Just so.  But when you arrange
to go to the theatre (especially with a pretty woman) what happens? You rush to the suburbs;
you spare no toil to make yourself glorious in fine raiment; you rush back to town in another
train; you keep yourself on the stretch for four hours, if not five; you take her home; you
take yourself home.  You don't spend three-quarters of an hour in "thinking about" going to
bed.  You go.  Friends and fatigue have equally been forgotten, and the evening has seemed
so exquisitely long (or perhaps too short)!  And do you remember that time when you were persuaded
to sing in the chorus of the amateur operatic society, and slaved two hours every other night
for three months?  Can you deny that when you have something definite to look forward to at
eventide, something that is to employ all your energy--the thought of that something gives
a glow and a more intense vitality to the whole day?

What I suggest is that at six o'clock you look facts in the face and admit that you are not
tired (because you are not, you know), and that you arrange your evening so that it is not
cut in the middle by a meal. By so doing you will have a clear expanse of at least three hours.
I do not suggest that you should employ three hours every night of your life in using up your
mental energy. But I do suggest that you might, for a commencement, employ an hour and a half
every other evening in some important and consecutive cultivation of the mind.  You will still
be left with three evenings for friends, bridge, tennis, domestic scenes, odd reading, pipes,
gardening, pottering, and prize competitions.  You will still have the terrific wealth of forty-five
hours between 2 p.m. Saturday and 10 a.m. Monday.  If you persevere you will soon want to pass
four evenings, and perhaps five, in some sustained endeavour to be genuinely alive. And you
will fall out of that habit of muttering to yourself at 11.15 p.m., "Time to be thinking about
going to bed."  The man who begins to go to bed forty minutes before he opens his bedroom door
is bored; that is to say, he is not living.

But remember, at the start, those ninety nocturnal minutes thrice a week must be the most important
minutes in the ten thousand and eighty. They must be sacred, quite as sacred as a dramatic
rehearsal or a tennis match. Instead of saying, "Sorry I can't see you, old chap, but I have
to run off to the tennis club," you must say, "...but I have to work."  This, I admit, is intensely
difficult to say.  Tennis is so much more urgent than the immortal soul.

VI

REMEMBER HUMAN NATURE

I have incidentally mentioned the vast expanse of forty-four hours between leaving business
at 2 p.m. on Saturday and returning to business at 10 a.m. on Monday.  And here I must touch
on the point whether the week should consist of six days or of seven.  For many years--in fact,
until I was approaching forty--my own week consisted of seven days.  I was constantly being
informed by older and wiser people that more work, more genuine living, could be got out of
six days than out of seven.

And it is certainly true that now, with one day in seven in which I follow no programme and
make no effort save what the caprice of the moment dictates, I appreciate intensely the moral
value of a weekly rest.  Nevertheless, had I my life to arrange over again, I would do again
as I have done.  Only those who have lived at the full stretch seven days a week for a long
time can appreciate the full beauty of a regular recurring idleness.  Moreover, I am ageing.
And it is a question of age.  In cases of abounding youth and exceptional energy and desire
for effort I should say unhesitatingly:  Keep going, day in, day out.

But in the average case I should say:  Confine your formal programme (super-programme, I mean)
to six days a week.  If you find yourself wishing to extend it, extend it, but only in proportion
to your wish; and count the time extra as a windfall, not as regular income, so that you can
return to a six-day programme without the sensation of being poorer, of being a backslider.

Let us now see where we stand.  So far we have marked for saving out of the waste of days,
half an hour at least on six mornings a week, and one hour and a half on three evenings a week.
Total, seven hours and a half a week.

I propose to be content with that seven hours and a half for the present.  "What?" you cry.
"You pretend to show us how to live, and you only deal with seven hours and a half out of a
hundred and sixty-eight!  Are you going to perform a miracle with your seven hours and a half?"
Well, not to mince the matter, I am--if you will kindly let me!  That is to say, I am going
to ask you to attempt an experience which, while perfectly natural and explicable, has all
the air of a miracle.  My contention is that the full use of those seven-and-a-half hours will
quicken the whole life of the week, add zest to it, and increase the interest which you feel
in even the most banal occupations. 

In such a situation, our friend received a letter from an unknown hand of invitation to the Post
House of the nearby town, where say a hurry just passing through to him urgently wished. He,
with his many specialty shops - and got used to Weltverhaeltnissen like, lined the less, as it reasonably
free, volatile hand seemed to remember. Calm and collected after his kind, he went to the designated
location, as in the known almost peasant upper room, the beautiful widow, came to meet him, beautiful
and graceful as he had left it. Was it that our imagination is not capable of the most excellent
be recorded and completely back to mind, or was truly a moving state given her more irritable, enough,
it took double version, his astonishment, his confusion to hide under the guise of the most general
politeness, and he greeted her with an embarrassed binding Cold.

"Not so, my dear!" she exclaimed, "did not I do this between the sacred
Wall, appointed in this most ignoble environment, such a poor household
does not ask to talk courtly.

I release my chest by a heavy load, by saying, confess: in your home I have done much harm. "-
The Major came back lopping .--" I know everything, "she continued," we do not need to explain,
you and Hilaria, Hilaria and Flavio, your good sister, I pity you all. "The language seemed to
falter, the most beautiful eyelashes could hold back tears welling, her cheek flushed, she was more
beautiful than ever. In utter confusion, stood before the noble man her, it penetrated an unknown
emotion. "Let us sit down," said, drying her eyes, the dearest of all beings. "Forgive me,
pity me, you see how I punished am. "She held her embroidered cloth again to her eyes and hid,
as she wept bitterly.

"They Klaeren me, madam," he said with haste .-- "None of gracious!" said they heavenly smile,
"You call me your girlfriend, you have no more loyal.

And then, my friend, I know it all, I know the situation of the family precisely, of all sentiments
I am familiar and suffering. "-" What you could teach up to this degree ?"--" confessions. This
hand, you will not be a stranger. "She had developed some letters out .--" The Hand of my sister,
letters, several of the sloppy writing to the familiar! Have you ever been in relationship with their ""
Just do not indirectly for some time;? here the inscription: "To ***.""--" a new puzzle: ."--"
At Makaria, the silent women of all why but also the confidante, the confessor of all oppressed
souls of all those who consider themselves lost to find themselves wanted and do not know where
."--" Thank God, "cried he, "that such a placement has found me want it not befit them to beg, I bless
my sister that she did, for me also are examples known to those Excellent, in the moral and also
hold a magic mirror, confused by the external shape rejected any unhappy nice clean interior
and it at once with the first self-satisfied and asked for a new life. "

"This benefit they bestowed upon me also," replied the beautiful, and felt at that moment our friend
if he also was not clear, however, decided that from this otherwise in their nature closed remarkable
person, a moral and nice, participating and some imaging system excelled
.-- "I was not unhappy, but uneasy," she continued, "I do not even
legally belonged to more, and that is because in the end but not happy
be.

I even liked any more, I liked me zurechtruecken front of the mirror, as I wish it always seemed
to me as if I was cleaning out me to a masked ball, but since then her mirror held up to me
since I became aware of how to decorate from the inside even could I come back to me quite beautifully.
"She said between smiles and tears and was, you had to admit it, more than lovable. She appeared
respectable and worth an eternal abiding affection.

"And now, my friend, we summarize briefly: here the letters to read them again and be read hesitation,
to prepare, they require at most an hour, more if They want, then are a few words, our states can
decide. "

They left him to go into the garden and down, and he now unfolded
a correspondence the Baroness with Makaria, the content we suggest
summarily.

Those complaining about the beautiful widow. As a woman, the other is looking sharp and judged
shows. Actually is used only by the externals and manifestations of the speech, after the interior
is not required.

Then on the part Makaria a milder assessment. Description of such a being of within. The exterior
appears as a series of coincidences to blame little, maybe to apologize. Now, the Baroness tells
of the frenzy and madness of the son, the growing Tendency of the
young couple, from the arrival of the father, the strong refusal of
Hilaria.

Everywhere replies Makaria find of pure equity, the depth of the conviction is that from this
must arise a moral improvement. You send last the whole correspondence of the beautiful woman whose
sky-nice interior now emerges and the outer begins to glorify. The whole thing ends with a grateful
reply to Makaria.

Chapter Six

William to Lenardo

At last, dearest friend, I can say it has been found, and peace of
mind I may add, in a situation where the wish for good being nothing
more uebrigbleibt.

Let me talk in general, I still write here on the spot where I do
everything before my eyes, what am I to give account.

Domestic state, founded on piety revived, diligence and order, and receive not too tight, not
too far, in the happiest relationship of the duties of the skills
and forces.

She moves her to a cycle of manual labor in the purest, initial Meaning, here is limited and action
at a distance, prudence and moderation, innocence and activity. Not easy I've seen in a more
agreeable present, about what a cheerful view of the near future and the future prevails. This, together
considered, might well be sufficient to calm each participant.

I must therefore remember anything of what had been discussed among us, most urgently ask: May
the friend stay on that general description, such possibly imagine
in your mind, give up farther on the other hand, however, all inquiry,
and the great Life business, in which he will probably now be opened
completely, the liveliest As pay.

A duplicate of this letter to send Hersilia, the other to the Abbé, who, I suspect, most surely
knows where to find them. On these, tried in secret and reveal always reliable friend still write a
lot, which he will tell, especially please, as for me even to look
with interest and with pious, faithful wishes I plan to promote.

William to the Abbé

If I triegt not everything, is Leonardo, the maximum to value, presently in among you, and I therefore
send the duplicate of a letter that he sent to secure am. May this young man icecream in your
circle of continuous significant Seem to be swallowed, since, as
I hope his soul is soothed.

As for me, I can, for permanent activities Selbstpruefung, my by mining long ago attached request
repeat now only serious, and the desire, my to complete years of
travel with more composure and steadiness is becoming urgent.

At a safe Hope you would give space to my ideas, I was quite prepared and my body made. After
completion of the transaction for the benefit of my noble friend I will now probably my further
life course under the conditions already expressed safely allowed to compete. Once I even completed
a religious pilgrimage, I intend to *** To arrive. In this place I hope to see your letters
and my inner drive according to to start anew.

Chapter Seven

After our friend drained above letters, he walked through some neighboring
Mountain hiking continued, on and on until the wonderful Talgegend
him opened, where to complete it before beginning a new life path,
so many thought.

Unexpectedly met he here on a young, vibrant Reisegefaehrten by which
his ambition and his Benefit should redound to the benefit of many.

It is found together with a painter, who, like how many wander in the open world, more so
in novels and plays and haunted, this time represented as an excellent artist. Both are sending
even soon fell to trust on each other inclinations, intentions, purposes, and now apparent that
the excellent artist who watercolor landscapes with witty, well to decorate drawn and executed
staffage white, was taken passionately fates of Mignon, shape and essence. He had very often been
presented, and went now on the journey, the environments in which they lived to reproduce nature,
where the represent sweet child happy and unhappy moments and environments and so its image
that lives in all tender heart, causing even the sense of the eye.

The friends soon come to the big lake, William seeks the indicated points after and to be found.
Rustic Prachthaeuser crossings, large monasteries, and bays, Capes and Landungsplaetze were sought,
and the homes of bold and good-natured fisherman any more than the cheerful little town built
on the shore and on neighboring heights Schloesschen forgotten. This all white to take the
artist, by illuminating and coloring of each to acquire historical
excited mood, so that William his days and hours by border Emotion
spent.

Mignon was on several leaves in the foreground, as they breathe and live, presented by nachzuhelfen
William the lucky imagination of his friend by accurate description and knew the general is
thought to border closer to the personality.

And so we looked for the boy-girl in a variety of position and importance
be executed.

Under the high Saeulenportale of the magnificent country house, she was pensive, the statues Looking
at the lobby. Here they rocked splashing on the attached Kahn, there she climbed the mast and
bestowed upon himself as an intrepid sailor.

An image but distinguished himself above all that the artist on his journey hither, ere he Wilhelm
met with all the character traits had acquired. Located in the rugged mountains gleams of grace
seem boy, surrounded by falling rocks, waterfalls sprinkled in the
middle difficult to describe in a horde.

Perhaps a variable gray, primitive rocks steep ravine polychrome never been more graceful and
significant. The colorful, gypsy-like company, raw at the same time and fantastic, weird and mean,
too loose to instill fear of strange to inspire confidence. carry hefty pack animals, sometimes
about stick travel, sometimes hewn Steps down, a colorful luggage confused on which all the instruments
around a stunning music, hung trembling, harass the ear with harsh tones from time to time.
Between everything which the lovable child turned in without defiance, unwilling without opposition,
led, not dragged. Who would not be the strange, EXPORTED image happy? characterized vigorously was
the closeness of this grim rocks, and the all-cutting zusammengetuermt black gorges, to prevent
all output would have non-threatening, a kuehne bridge on the way to get to the rest of the world in
connection hinted. Also let the artist be markedly with klugdichtendem truth meaning a cave, the is
mightier than nature workshop crystals or as a fabulous stay-terrible Drachenbrut could respond.

Not
without awe visited the Friends of the Marchese's palace, the old man was from his Travel back yet, but
were also in this district, because it deals with spiritual and secular authorities to behave
well knew, friendly welcome and treated.

The absence of the owner, however, Wilhelm felt very pleasant, for although he was the worthy
Happy man again seen and would have welcomed warmly, he was afraid
but before its grateful generosity and above any forced upon reward
that faithful, loving Action, for which he had previously taken the
most delicate wage.

And so the friends were floating on a dainty boat from shore to shore,
the lake in any direction durchkreuzend.

In the most beautiful time of the year they missed either sunrise or sunset and none of the thousand
shades with which the sky light its firmament, and from there Sea and earth ueberspendet generous
and perfectly glorified in the first reflection.

A lush plants sown maintained in nature through art and promoted, surrounded it everywhere. Already
the first chestnut forests they had welcomed, and now could they do not contain a sad smile when
they, stored under cypress trees, the Laurel rise, the pomegranate redden, oranges and lemons
in flower unfold and fruits at the same time hervorgluehend from the dark arbor saw.

By the fresh fellows but was for Wilhelm, a new pleasure. Our old friend Nature had given no painterly
eye. Susceptible to visual beauty only in human form, he was aware at once: it was a congenial,
but to all other pleasures and activities formed the environment receptive friend.

In discussions allusion to the changing splendors of the area, but even more by concentrated imitation
to him opened his eyes and he stubbornly cherished by all other Doubts freed. Suspect as he
had always been imitations of Italian regions; The sky seemed to be blue, the purple clay lovely
Far indeed hoechst sweet, but untrue and the many fresh green but
too colorful, but now he merged with his new friends and learned the
most intimate, sensitive as he was, with his eyes the world see, and
by the nature unfolded the open secret of its beauty, it was necessary
to feeling for art as the most worthy interpreter irresistible longing.

But

unexpectedly came the picturesque friend to meet him from another side, this sometimes had a cheerful
voice intoned, and thus far peaceful hours - and wider Shaft drive alive even directions and guidance.
Now, however, met it, he in one of the palaces very own stringed instruments, found sounds in a
small form, powerful, full sounding, comfortable and portable, and he knew the instrument to
vote immediately to treat, so happy and pleasant and to maintain the present so friendly that
he, as a new Orpheus, the otherwise strict and dry Castellan defeated softening and forced
him kindly, the instrument the singer about to leave for a time, with the condition, such
faithfully before departure play, and in the meantime, at some Sundays
- to appear or holidays to please the family.

Very different now and lake shore was alive, boat and barge were courting her neighborhood, even
Freight - and market ships stayed in their vicinity, lines of people moved to the shore, ends and
the country saw at once surrounded by a happy-minded lot, and the departing blessed everyone satisfied,
but longing.

Well last third parties, which would have friends watching, even can probably notice that the Mission
of both is really ended: all the areas relating to Mignon and locality all were outlined, some
in light, shadow and color set some in hot hours faithfully executed.
to manage this, they had a peculiar way from place to place moved
because they did vow William was often a hindrance, but they did occasionally
such To work through the interpretation, are only applied for the
land on the water it was not applicable.

Wilhelm also felt themselves that their real intention had been reached, but could not deny
he does not want to see the desire and the beautiful widow Hilary,
also satisfies would have to be if you wanted to leave the area with
clear meaning.

The friend, whom he The familiar story was no less curious and was looking forward, a beautiful
Place in one of his drawings to know empty and single, he thus with the forms holder People thought to
decorate artistically.

Now they put on the cross and cross-rides, the points where the stranger to enter into this paradise
usually, watching.

Their ships they had with the hope of seeing friends here, known made, and now it was not long
before they saw a glide approach well decorated glory ship what they hunted and not contained
to board at once passionate. The Women are affected to some extent, embraced at once, when
William the vorwies Blaettchen and both the pre-drawn arrow accepted by them without hesitation.
The Friends were soon invited trusting to board the ship of the ladies that came in a hurry.

And now let you look at the four as they, in the most elegant room together, against each other about
sitting in the most blessed world, blown from mild air puff on glossy Waves rocked. Consider the
female pair, as we saw recently described, the male with which we perform for weeks a common journey
of life, and we see they are all after some consideration in the most graceful, although most
dangerous situation.

For the three that already, willingly or unwillingly, to the renunciation
is not counted, to get the hardest, but the fourth seemed to have
taken all too soon in those orders .

See

After several times crossed the lake and the most interesting locations, both the bank had hinted
as the islands, they brought the ladies to the place where they spend the night and should find
a clever, for this trip leaders accepted all desirable conveniences
get to know.

Here is William's vow was a more fitting, but less comfortable master of ceremonies; for it is
precisely at this station had the friends recently spent three days and all Strange near exhausted.
The artist, which no vow was wanted back, ask permission to escort
the ladies to land, but who rejected it, so you at some distance from
the port separated.

No sooner had the singer jumped into his ship, which rushed away from the shore, when he picked up the sounds
and those wonderfully-plaintive vocals, which the Venetian boatmen ring from land to sea, from sea to land
let, lovely to vote began. Voiced enough to such a lecture, which he managed this time especially
delicate and expressive, he reinforced, relatively the growing distance, the sound, so you always
have the same vicinity on the banks of the departing hear to believe. He had modified the sounds
are silent, his voice alone trusting and had the pleasure to notice
that the ladies rather than pull back into the house, to dwell on
the bank popular.

He was so excited that he could not terminate, themselves as well as last night and watching
distance of all objects removed; to he finally calmed down the more noticeable friend was
that, although the tone of darkness recipient, the vessel left the district but long ago, in
what can seem the same.

According to the appointment of the next day they met again at sea. Vorueberfliegend friends
with one of the beautiful series of strange executed outsourced, sometimes in rows overseeable,
soon of shifting views that, in the water is evenly doubling in bank runs grant the diversity
of enjoyment. This allowed for the artistic replicas suspect and suspect the one on paper,
what is not on today's train immediately saw. For all this seemed to have the silent Hilarie
free and beautiful sense.

But now at noon again appeared the miraculous: the ladies ended up alone, the men crossed off the port.
Now the singer tried his lecture such a rapprochement to comfortable, if not merely from a general
tender and lively yodeling Sehnsuchtston but hope of a cheerful, delicate push forward any effect
would be happy. Since wanted because sometimes one and the other of the songs we loved ones
of the "apprenticeship" guilty, over the strings, hovering about
his lips, but he refrained from well-meaning Conservation, which he
needed himself, and raved about in rather strange images and emotions
about, for winning his lecture, which was heard by only the more ingratiating.

Both friends had, thus blocking the port thought, not eating and drinking, if I had the cautious
friends heruebergesendet not good bites, including an accompanying Trunk selected wines tasted
for the very best.

Any separation, any condition, which occurs in our burgeoning passions the way sharpens them, rather
than dampen them, and once again it can be assumed that the short Absence of both parts have the same
desire aroused.


The whole field of daily habit and scene is waiting to satisfy that curiosity which means life,
and the satisfaction of which means an understanding heart.

I promised to deal with your case, O man who hates art and literature, and I have dealt with
it.  I now come to the case of the person, happily very common, who does "like reading."

XI

SERIOUS READING

Novels are excluded from "serious reading," so that the man who, bent on self-improvement,
has been deciding to devote ninety minutes three times a week to a complete study of the works
of Charles Dickens will be well advised to alter his plans.  The reason is not that novels
are not serious--some of the great literature of the world is in the form of prose fiction--the
reason is that bad novels ought not to be read, and that good novels never demand any appreciable
mental application on the part of the reader. It is only the bad parts of Meredith's novels
that are difficult.  A good novel rushes you forward like a skiff down a stream, and you arrive
at the end, perhaps breathless, but unexhausted.  The best novels involve the least strain.
Now in the cultivation of the mind one of the most important factors is precisely the feeling
of strain, of difficulty, of a task which one part of you is anxious to achieve and another
part of you is anxious to shirk; and that feeling cannot be got in facing a novel.  You do
not set your teeth in order to read "Anna Karenina."  Therefore, though you should read novels,
you should not read them in those ninety minutes.

Imaginative poetry produces a far greater mental strain than novels. It produces probably the
severest strain of any form of literature. It is the highest form of literature.  It yields
the highest form of pleasure, and teaches the highest form of wisdom.  In a word, there is
nothing to compare with it.  I say this with sad consciousness of the fact that the majority
of people do not read poetry.

I am persuaded that many excellent persons, if they were confronted with the alternatives of
reading "Paradise Lost" and going round Trafalgar Square at noonday on their knees in sack-cloth,
would choose the ordeal of public ridicule.  Still, I will never cease advising my friends
and enemies to read poetry before anything.

If poetry is what is called "a sealed book" to you, begin by reading Hazlitt's famous essay
on the nature of "poetry in general."  It is the best thing of its kind in English, and no
one who has read it can possibly be under the misapprehension that poetry is a mediaeval torture,
or a mad elephant, or a gun that will go off by itself and kill at forty paces. Indeed, it
is difficult to imagine the mental state of the man who, after reading Hazlitt's essay, is
not urgently desirous of reading some poetry before his next meal.  If the essay so inspires
you I would suggest that you make a commencement with purely narrative poetry.

There is an infinitely finer English novel, written by a woman, than anything by George Eliot
or the Brontes, or even Jane Austen, which perhaps you have not read.  Its title is "Aurora
Leigh," and its author E.B. Browning.  It happens to be written in verse, and to contain a
considerable amount of genuinely fine poetry.  Decide to read that book through, even if you
die for it.  Forget that it is fine poetry. Read it simply for the story and the social ideas.
And when you have done, ask yourself honestly whether you still dislike poetry. I have known
more than one person to whom "Aurora Leigh" has been the means of proving that in assuming
they hated poetry they were entirely mistaken.

Of course, if, after Hazlitt, and such an experiment made in the light of Hazlitt, you are
finally assured that there is something in you which is antagonistic to poetry, you must be
content with history or philosophy. I shall regret it, yet not inconsolably. "The Decline and
Fall" is not to be named in the same day with "Paradise Lost," but it is a vastly pretty thing;
and Herbert Spencer's "First Principles" simply laughs at the claims of poetry and refuses
to be accepted as aught but the most majestic product of any human mind.  I do not suggest
that either of these works is suitable for a tyro in mental strains.  But I see no reason why
any man of average intelligence should not, after a year of continuous reading, be fit to assault
the supreme masterpieces of history or philosophy.  The great convenience of masterpieces is
that they are so astonishingly lucid.

I suggest no particular work as a start.  The attempt would be futile in the space of my command.
But I have two general suggestions of a certain importance.  The first is to define the direction
and scope of your efforts. Choose a limited period, or a limited subject, or a single author.
Say to yourself:  "I will know something about the French Revolution, or the rise of railways,
or the works of John Keats."  And during a given period, to be settled beforehand, confine
yourself to your choice.  There is much pleasure to be derived from being a specialist.

The second suggestion is to think as well as to read.  I know people who read and read, and
for all the good it does them they might just as well cut bread-and-butter.  They take to reading
as better men take to drink. They fly through the shires of literature on a motor-car, their
sole object being motion.  They will tell you how many books they have read in a year.

Unless you give at least forty-five minutes to careful, fatiguing reflection (it is an awful
bore at first) upon what you are reading, your ninety minutes of a night are chiefly wasted.
This means that your pace will be slow.

Never mind.

Forget the goal; think only of the surrounding country; and after a period, perhaps when you
least expect it, you will suddenly find yourself in a lovely town on a hill.

XII

DANGERS TO AVOID

I cannot terminate these hints, often, I fear, too didactic and abrupt, upon the full use of
one's time to the great end of living (as distinguished from vegetating) without briefly referring
to certain dangers which lie in wait for the sincere aspirant towards life.  The first is the
terrible danger of becoming that most odious and least supportable of persons--a prig. Now
a prig is a pert fellow who gives himself airs of superior wisdom. A prig is a pompous fool
who has gone out for a ceremonial walk, and without knowing it has lost an important part of
his attire, namely, his sense of humour.  A prig is a tedious individual who, having made a
discovery, is so impressed by his discovery that he is capable of being gravely displeased
because the entire world is not also impressed by it. 

"He manages to portray the quiet serenity of lake view, where adjacent-friendly Homes, reflecting
the swim in the clear waters to, as it seems, the banks, with green Surrounding hills, behind which
rise highlands are icy glacier firn. The hue such scenes is cheerful, happy, cheerful, clear, and
the Far doused with scent as mitigating, the fog and gray enveloping from durchstroemenden
and valleys produced increases and indicates their turns. No less is the master of art in
praise of views Valleys, high mountains located closer to where lush Bergeshaenge descend,
fresh Flows at the foot of the rocks fortwaelzen hurry.
  It will be found, ultimately, that in taking care of one's self one has quite all
one can do.

Another danger is the danger of being tied to a programme like a slave to a chariot.  One's
programme must not be allowed to run away with one. It must be respected, but it must not be
worshipped as a fetish. A programme of daily employ is not a religion.

This seems obvious.  Yet I know men whose lives are a burden to themselves and a distressing
burden to their relatives and friends simply because they have failed to appreciate the obvious.
"Oh, no," I have heard the martyred wife exclaim, "Arthur always takes the dog out for exercise
at eight o'clock and he always begins to read at a quarter to nine. Were there no letters randomly, it had he
brought copies and wrote it for his own pleasure now, more like if so a document rather than by
beauty of style, as indicated by the address to a new distinguished or important person.
  And unless it is treated with deference it
ceases to be anything but a poor joke.  To treat one's programme with exactly the right amount
of deference, to live with not too much and not too little elasticity, is scarcely the simple
affair it may appear to the inexperienced.

And still another danger is the danger of developing a policy of rush, of being gradually more
and more obsessed by what one has to do next. In this way one may come to exist as in a prison,
and one's life may cease to be one's own.  One may take the dog out for a walk at eight o'clock,
and meditate the whole time on the fact that one must begin to read at a quarter to nine, and
that one must not be late.

And the occasional deliberate breaking of one's programme will not help to mend matters. 

What the work of art interested people more than the how, that they can individually To take
this not grasp the whole. Therefore, the lifting of bodies is being modified, when you well aufmerkt,
the effect of Totality fails not, but each unconsciously.

The question: where's the poet? What is even again, as it learns from no one.

Imagination is regulated only through art, especially through poetry. It is not terrible than
imagination without taste.

The mannered is a failed ideal, an ideal is subjectivized and therefore
lacks the Spiritual not easy.

The philologist is dependent on the
congruence of the traditional written.

The last, and chiefest danger which I would indicate, is one to which I have already referred--the
risk of a failure at the commencement of the enterprise.

I must insist on it.

A failure at the commencement may easily kill outright the newborn impulse towards a complete
vitality, and therefore every precaution should be observed to avoid it.  The impulse must
not be over-taxed. Let the pace of the first lap be even absurdly slow, but let it be as regular
as possible.

And, having once decided to achieve a certain task, achieve it at all costs of tedium and distaste.
The gain in self-confidence of having accomplished a tiresome labour is immense.

Finally, in choosing the first occupations of those evening hours, be guided by nothing whatever
but your taste and natural inclination.

It is a fine thing to be a walking encyclopaedia of philosophy, but if you happen to have no
liking for philosophy, and to have a like for the natural history of street-cries, much better
leave philosophy alone, and take to street-cries.

