The King glanced at all the other poets and said nothing at all.  And the five-and-forty kings'
sons, who, if they were not poets, were at least gentlemen, rose from their seats with one accord.

"Her royal Highness was quite right," they said.  "We are not poets at all."

Then they took leave of every one present and filed out of the room and rode away to their
respective countries, where, of course, nobody ever suspected them of being poets; and they
just remained Princes of the royal blood and nothing else to the end of their days.

"And you, little lady?" said the Poet, anxiously.

"It was wonderful," answered the little blind Princess.  "But there was no love in it."

By this time the Queen had ceased to be impressed and had begun to remember that she was a Queen.

"We are quite sure you are a poet," she said in her most queenly manner, "because you have
told us something that we did not know before.  But we think you are not a fit companion for
her royal Highness, and it is therefore time for you to go."

"No, no!" cried the Princess.  "You are not to go.  You are my Poet, and I want you to stay
here always."

Matters were becoming serious, and every one set to work to try to turn the little Princess
from her purpose.

"He is shockingly untidy," whispered the ladies in waiting.

"And so ugly," murmured the Queen; "there is nothing distinguished about him at all."

"He will cost the nation something to keep," added the King, without lowering his voice at all.

But the little Princess turned a deaf ear to them all and held out her hand again to the Poet.

"I do not believe a word they say," she cried.  "You cannot be ugly, you with a voice like
that!  If you are ugly, then ugliness is what I have wanted all my life.  Ugliness is what
I love, and you are to stay here with me."

In the end, it was the Poet himself who came to the rescue.

"I cannot stay with you, little lady," he said gently.  "It is true what they say; I am too
ugly to be tolerated, and it has been my good fortune that you could not see me.  I will go
away and put some love into my poetry, and then, perhaps, I shall find some one who will listen
to me."

But the poor little Princess burst out sobbing.

"If I could only see," she wept, "I would prove to you that I do not think you ugly.  Oh, if
I could only see!  I have never wanted to see before."

"Little lady," whispered the Poet, bending over her, "I am glad that you cannot see."

And then, he turned and fled out of the palace and out of the city and away from the country
that contained the little Princess who had loved him because she was blind.  And he wandered
from place to place as before; but he told no one that he was a poet, for he had felt ashamed
of his poetry ever since the little Princess had said there was no love in it.  But there came
a day when he could keep silent no longer, so he went among the people once more and told them
one of his poems.  This time, he had no difficulty in making them understand, for he told them
the story of his love for the little blind Princess.

"Why," said the people, when he had finished, "the maid is easily cured, for it is well known
among our folk that a kiss on the eyelids when asleep, from a true lover, will open the eyes
of any one who has been blind from birth."

Now, when the Poet heard this, he was greatly perplexed.  For to open the eyes of his little
Princess was to kill her love for him; and yet, he could not forget how she had wept for the
want of her sight, and here was the power to give it back to her, and it rested with him alone
of all men in the world.  So he determined to make her happy at any cost, and he turned his
face towards the King's palace once more and arrived there at midday, after travelling for
seven days and seven nights without ceasing.  But, of course, that was nothing to a poet who
was in love.

"Dear me," said the King irritably, when the Poet appeared before him; "I thought you had gone
for good.  And a pretty time we 've been having of it with the Princess, in consequence!  What
have you come back for?"

"I have come back to open the Princess's eyes," answered the Poet, boldly.

"It strikes me," grumbled the King, "that you opened everybody's eyes pretty effectually, last
time you were here.  You certainly can't see the Princess now, for she has gone to sleep in
the garden."

"That is exactly what I want," cried the Poet, joyfully.  "Let me but kiss her eyelids while
she is sleeping, and by the time she awakes I shall have gone for ever."

"The Queen must deal with this," said the King, looking helpless in the face of such a preposterous
suggestion.  Her Majesty was accordingly sent for, and the Poet explained his mission all over
again.

"It is certainly unusual," said the Queen, doubtfully, "not to say out of order.  But still,
in view of the advantage to be gained, and by considering it in the light of medical treatment--and
if you promise to go away directly after, just like a physician, or--or a singing-master,--perhaps
something might be arranged."

The end of it was that the Poet was taken into the garden, and there was the little blind Princess
sound asleep in her hammock, with a maid of honour fanning her on each side.

"Hush," whispered the Queen.  "She must not awake, on any account."

"No," echoed the poor, ugly Poet; "she must not awake--on my account."

Then he bent over her, for the second time in his life, and touched her eyelids with his lips.
The Princess went on dreaming happily, but the Poet turned and fled out of the city.

"At least," he said, "she shall never know how ugly I am."

That day, every Prince who was in the palace put on his best court suit, in order to charm
the Princess.  But the Princess refused to be charmed.  She looked at them all, with large,
frightened eyes, and sent them away, one by one, as they came to offer her their congratulations.

"Why do you congratulate me on being able to see you?" she asked them. "Are you so beautiful,
then?"

"Oh, no," they said in a chorus.  "Do not imagine such a thing for a moment."

"Then why should I be glad because I can see you?" persisted the Princess; and they went away
much perplexed.

"Tell me what is beautiful," said the little Princess to her mother. "All my life I have longed
to look on beauty, and now it is all so confusing that I cannot tell one thing from another.
Is there anything beautiful here?"

"To be sure there is," replied the Queen.  "This room is very beautiful to begin with, and
the nation is still being taxed to pay for it."

"This room?" said the Princess in astonishment.  "How can anything be beautiful that keeps
out the sun and the air?  Tell me something else that is beautiful."

"The dresses of the ladies in waiting are very beautiful," said the Queen.  "And the ladies
in waiting themselves might be called beautiful by some, though that of course is a matter
of opinion."

"They all look alike to me," sighed the little Princess.  "Is there nothing else here that
is beautiful?"

"Certainly," answered the Queen, pointing out the wealthiest and most eligible Prince in the
room.  "That is the handsomest man you could ever want to see."

"That?" said the Princess, disconsolately.  "After all, one is best without eyes!  Can you
not show me some ugliness for a change? Long took
him, he would here, among them also speak for the people and freedom. Oh, there would be no major
plans. Only had to assure him that he could speak here Rezek. "Yes," said student and said again:
"Silence" - Bohush nodded whatever get over it and asked: "Yes, of course - I'll talk about here,"
The other gave consolation and pushed him to? He feared that the door is pretty lame and not
much hope for something even less of him, there was annoying him.Of the stairs, he remembered
again. He said the third "Silence" and offered a small smile. Bohush just wanted to get to him
- and recognized the hard drive, the cruel hands of students, and increasing the threatening fist,
a long thin knife, whose blade was passed in light of the lantern as dead blood. And much Bohush
treaty - could not find his smile. Desperate grimaced and went to his apartment, shaking. And in
the morning was near. - From Bohush stayed overnight. She waited day and night, to call Rezek s thinking
and what he had to say everything.

Lots and lots! The best scrum in their fantasies of the jungle, and if it seemed = now, had
to talk about how the poor orphans might contribute to the life he was convinced that the next second,
as it has said it would be for them to attack churches and palaces.


The whole country was searched in vain for a toy that would be likely to please the Princess;
but, as she already possessed every kind of toy that has ever been heard of, nobody succeeded
in finding her a new one. So the little Princess went on crying bitterly, and the royal nurses
shook their heads and sighed.  Then the King called a council in despair.

"It is very absurd," grumbled his Majesty, "that my daughter cannot be kept amused.  What is
the use of an expensive government and a well-dressed court, if there are not enough toys for
her to play with? Can no one invent a new toy for the Princess Petulant?"

He looked sternly at all his councillors as he spoke; but his councillors were so horrified
at being expected to invent something straight out of their heads that no one said anything
at all until the Prime Minister summoned up courage to speak.

"Perhaps, if we were to send for Martin," he suggested, "her royal Highness might consent to
be comforted."

"Who is Martin?" demanded the King.

"He is my son," said the Prime Minister, apologetically; "and he spends his days either dreaming
by himself or playing with the Princess Petulant.  He will never be Prime Minister," he added
sadly, "but he might think of a way to amuse the Princess."

So the King dismissed the council with much relief and sent for Martin to come and play with
his daughter.  Martin walked straight up to the royal nursery and found the spoilt little Princess
still crying on the floor.  So down on the floor sat Martin too; and he looked at her very
solemnly out of his round, serious eyes, and he asked her why she was crying.

"I want a new toy," she pouted.  "I am tired of all my old toys.  Don't you think you can find
me a new toy to play with, Martin?"

"If I do," said Martin, "will you promise not to be cross when I run faster than you do?"

The Princess nodded.

"And will you promise not to mind when I don't want to play any more?"

The Princess nodded again.

"And will you promise not to call me sulky when I don't feel inclined to talk?" continued Martin.

"Yes, yes!"  cried Princess Petulant.  "You won't be long before you find it, will you, Martin?"

"In four weeks from now," said the Prime Minister's son, "you will have me with you again."

"And I shall have my new toy," said the Princess Petulant, sighing contentedly.

Now, Martin was one of the few children who can see the fairies.  He knew how to coax the flower
fairies to speak to him, and how to find the wood fairies when they hid among the ferns, and
how to laugh back when the wymps made fun of him; and, above all, he knew how to find his way
to Bobolink, the Purple Enchanter, who knows everything.  And he found his way to Bobolink,
on the evening of that very same day.

Bobolink, the Purple Enchanter, sat on his amethyst throne in the middle of a grove of deadly
nightshade.  He was the ugliest enchanter any one has ever seen; and on each side of him sat
an enormous purple toad with an ugly purple smile on his face.  Even the sun's rays shone purple
in the home of the Purple Enchanter; and Martin stared at him for a whole minute without speaking.
For, although Martin was two years older than the little Princess Petulant, he was not a very
big boy for all that; and there was something that made him feel a little queer in the purple
face, and the purple hands, and the purple expression of Bobolink.

"Why don't you say something?" growled Bobolink, in just the kind of voice one would expect
such a very ugly person to have.  "What are you thinking about, eh?  If it's anything about
me, you 'd better say so at once!"

"Well," said Martin, as bravely as he could, "I was thinking that it must be very odd to be
so purple as you are. Them cost so much an crew by beliefs, Retentions
and contrives inward him that ever invited an all cloud of his brims, desert and pitiless lands
by a ablaze field. And so Bohush attained an exacting Aspect and arranged believing: "Facile,
by the piece. It's everybody inward them."And particularly along so much affairs them befell that
the all bunch abruptly melted, but faded,and equaled ineffective Bohush comprised gave up in
the mind and away, something to entertain or still allege

"And how do you think you are going to get it?" asked Bobolink, with a chuckle.

"That is exactly what I want you to tell me," said Martin, boldly.

Now, Bobolink, the Purple Enchanter, was used to being visited by people who wanted to get
something out of him, because, as I said before, Bobolink knows everything.  But he had never
come across any one who did not begin by flattering him; and he took a fancy to Martin from
the moment he told him he was sunpurpled.  So he smiled as well as he could,--which was not
very well, for he had never done such a thing before and his jaws were extremely stiff,--and
for the moment he hardly looked ugly at all.

"I like you," he said, nodding at the small figure of the Prime Minister's son; "and I am going
to help you.  Of course, I know quite well where the Wonderful Toymaker lives; but I have promised
the pine dwarfs not to tell, because it is the only secret they possess, and it would break
their hearts if any one were to hear it from me instead of from them.  You see, when a person
knows everything he must keep some of it to himself, or else there would be nothing left for
anybody else to say, and then there would be no more conversation.  That is the worst of knowing
everything.  But I can show you the way to the pine dwarfs; and if you keep perfectly quiet
and speak in a whisper to them, they'll tell you all you want to know." Am I not one, eh? I understand do, you do not? I am
still with you, too - from my heart with you "The student looked at. it was ruthless power, and
the hunchback quite helpless in this penetrating, guess look.
  Go straight ahead and take
the hundred and first turning to the right, and the fifty-second turning to the left, then
turn round seventeen times; and if that is n't good enough for you I 'll never help you again.
Now, off you go!"

Martin saw that he was no longer wanted and set off as fast as he could.  It took him a whole
week to reach the hundred and first turning on the right; and it was the most anxious week
he had ever spent, for he had to keep counting the turnings all the time and was dreadfully
afraid of losing count altogether.  And the fifty-second turning on the left was almost as
bad, for his way took him through a large town, and he dare not stay to speak to any one for
fear of overlooking one of the little streets.  He left the town behind him at last; and after
walking for two days longer, he reached the fifty-second turning on his left, and it led him
to the middle of a vast sandy plain.

"How queer!" thought Martin.  "Not a single tree to be seen!  Surely the pine dwarfs don't
live in a place like this?  Perhaps old Bobolink has only hoaxed me after all."

However, he turned round seventeen times just to see what would happen; and the first thing
that happened was that he became remarkably giddy and had to sit down on the ground to recover
himself.  When he did recover he found he was in a beautiful thick pine wood, with the sunshine
coming through the branches, and flickering here and there over the ground, and painting the
great big pine trunks bright red. Over it all hung the most delicious silence, only broken
by the soft passage of the wind through the pine leaves.  Martin had almost forgotten the warning
Bobolink had given him, but, even if he had quite forgotten it, nothing would have induced
him to speak loudly in such a stillness as that.

"Are you there, little pine dwarfs?" he whispered, as he looked up through the pine trees at
the blue sky on the other side.  No sooner had his whisper travelled up through the hushed
air than all the branches seemed to be filled with life and movement; and what Martin had believed
to be brown pine cones suddenly moved, and ran about among the trees, and slid down the long
red trunks.  And then he saw they were dear little brown dwarfs, who surrounded him by hundreds
and thousands, and travelled up and down his boots, and stared at him with looks full of curiosity. He was in pain as he lay in the small hole, and he could feel himself
sobbing in despair. As the student helped him, he was sorry that he had shown his dejection in front
of others. Thinking of his plans he unsuccessfully explained with an air of superiority that
he knew everything,he was, of course, referring to the angry marks on the girl's two hands. "Will
you behave"? the student asked again in a threatening manner. Bohush
dared not show his anxiety, "Rezek, Rezek don't be like that, please,
don't be like that.
So their honest little brown faces were covered with good-nature and smiles, as they crooned
out their information.

"You must walk straight through the wood," they said, "until you come to a waterfall at the
beginning of a stream; and you must follow the stream down, down, down, until it brings you
to a valley surrounded by high hills; and in that valley is the toyshop of the Wonderful Toymaker,
who makes all the toys for Fairyland."

"That is simple enough, I 'm sure," said Martin.

"Ah," said the pine dwarfs, wisely, "but it is not so easy to get there as you think; for the
stream leads you through the country of the people who make conversation, and they try to stop
every stranger who passes by, so that they can make him into conversation; and that is why
so few people ever reach the Wonderful Toymaker at all."

"Make conversation!  How funny!" said Martin; and he almost laughed aloud at the idea.

"It is more sad than funny," said the pine dwarfs, sighing like a large gust of wind that for
the moment made Martin feel quite chilly; "for it gives us so much to do.  You see, they make
conversation, and we make silence; and the more conversation they make the more silence we
have to make to keep things even.  They are always ahead of us, for all that!"  They sighed
again.  Martin looked puzzled.

"Still, your silence is so full of sound," he said.  The pine dwarfs laughed softly, so softly
that most people would have called it only smiling.

