As I looked at the child the remark that we had not a single vacant seat perished, unborn,
on my lips. She was about three and a half years old, and was clad in a straight, loose slip
of dark blue wool that showed her neck and arms. A little flat, sort of "pork pie" hat of blue
velveteen sat on the back of her adorable head, showing the satiny rings of yellow hair that
curled round her ears and hung close to her neck. (No wonder!) She had gray-blue eyes with
long upper and under lashes and a perfect mouth that disclosed the pearly teeth usually confined
to the heroines of novels. As to her skin you would say that Jersey cream was the principal
ingredient in its composition.

The children had stopped their weaving needles and were gazing open-mouthed at this vision
of beauty, though Rosaleen had by no means unmasked all her batteries. She came nearer my chair,
and without being invited, slipped her hand in mine in a blarneyish and deludthering way not
unknown in her native isle. The same Jersey cream had gone into its skin, there were dimples
in the knuckles, and baby hand though it was, its satin touch had a thrill in it, and responded
instantly to my pressure.

"Do you think we can make room for her, children?" I asked.

Every small boy cried rapturously: "Look Miss Kate! Here's room! I kin scrooge up!" and hoped
the Lord would send Rosaleen his way!

"We can't have two children in one seat;" I explained to Rosaleen's sponsor, "because they
can't have proper building exercises nor work to good advantage when they're crowded."

"I kin set on the pianner stool!" gallantly offered Billy Prendergast.

"Perhaps I can borrow a little chair somewhere," I said. "Would you like to stay with us Rosaleen?"

Her only answer (she was richer in beautiful looks than in speech) was to remove her blue velveteen
hat and tranquilly placed it on my table. The goals of endowments and buildings should be made clearly
visible and followed with dedication.Otherwise they might turn into barriers rather than help.This
fact is borne out by the example of Oxford.


At one o'clock Bobby Green came back from the noon recess dragging a high chair. It was his
own outgrown property and he had asked our Janitor to abbreviate its legs and bring it up stairs.

When Rosaleen sat in it and smiled, a thrill of rapture swept through the small community.
The girls thrilled as well as the boys, for Rosaleen's was not a mere sex appeal but practically
a universal one.

There was one flaw in our content. Bobby Green's mother arrived shortly after one o'clock in
a high state of wrath, and I was obliged to go out in the hall and calm her nerves.

"I really think Bobby's impulse was an honest one," I said. "He did not know I intended to
buy a chair for the new child out of my own salary this afternoon. He probably thought that
the high chair was his very own, reasoning as children do, and it was a gallant, generous act.
I don't like to have him punished for it, Mrs. Green, and if we both tell him he ought to have
asked your permission before giving the chair away, and if I buy you a new one, won't you agree
to drop the matter?--Think how manly Bobby was and how generous and thoughtful! If he were
mine I couldn't help being proud of him. Just peep in and look at the baby who is sitting in
his chair, a little stranger, just come from Ireland to San Francisco."

Mrs. Green peeped in and saw the sun shining on Rosaleen's primrose head. She was stringing
beads, while Bobby, Pat and Aaron knelt beside her, palpitating for a chance to serve.

"She's real cute!" whispered Mrs. Green. "Does Bobby act very often like he's doin' now?"

"He's one of the greatest comforts of my life!" I said truly.

"I wish I could say the same!" she retorted. "Well, I came round intendin' to give him a good
settlin' but he'd had two already this week and I guess I'll let it go! We ain't so poverty-struck
as some o' the folks in this neighborhood and I guess we can make out to spare a chair, it's
little enough to pay for gettin' rid of Bobby."

Two years that miracle of beauty and sweetness, Rosaleen Clancy stayed with us, just as potent
an influence as the birds or the flowers, the stories I told, or the music I coaxed from the
little upright piano. Her face was not her only fortune for she had a heart of gold. Ireland
did indeed have a grievance when Rosaleen left it for America!

This is just a corner of my portrait gallery, which has dozens of other types hanging on the
walls clamoring to be described. Some were lovely and some interestingly ugly; some were like
lilies growing out of the mud, others had not been quite as able to energize themselves out
of their environment and bore the sad traces of it ever with them;--still, they were all absorbingly
interesting beyond my power to paint. Month after month they sat together, working, playing,
helping, growing--in a word learning how to live, and there in the midst of the group was I,
learning my life lesson with them.

The study and the practice of the kindergarten theory of education and of life gave me, while
I was still very young, a certain ideal by which to live and work, and it has never faded.--Never,
whether richer or poorer, whether better or worse, in sickness or in health, in prosperity
or adversity, never wholly to lose my glimpse of that "celestial light" that childhood-apparalled
"Meadow, grove and stream, the earth and every common sight:" and to hold that attitude of
mind and heart which gives to life even when it is difficult something of "the glory and the
freshness of a dream!"

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVERTISEMENTS

By Kate Douglas Wiggin

REBECCA OF SUNNYBROOK FARM. 12mo, $1.25.
NEW CHRONICLES OF REBECCA. Illustrated by F. C. Yohn. 12mo, $1.25.
ROSE O' THE RIVER. Ill. in color. 12mo, $1.25.
THE AFFAIR AT THE INN. Ill. 12mo, $1.25.
THE DIARY OF A GOOSE GIRL. Illustrated. 12mo, $1.00.
A CATHEDRAL COURTSHIP AND PENELOPE'S ENGLISH EXPERIENCES. Ill. 16mo,
  $1.00.
PENELOPE'S PROGRESS. 16mo, $1.25.
PENELOPE'S IRISH EXPERIENCES. 16mo, $1.25.
PENELOPE'S EXPERIENCES. I England; II Scotland; III Ireland; Holiday
  Edition. With many illustrations by Charles E. Brock. 3 vols., each
  12mo, $2.00 the set, $6.00.
A CATHEDRAL COURTSHIP. Holiday Edition, enlarged. Illustrated by
  C. E. Brock. 12mo, $1.50.
THE BIRDS' CHRISTMAS CAROL. Illustrated. Square 12mo, 50 cents.
THE STORY OF PATSY. Illustrated. Square 12mo, 60 cents.
A SUMMER IN A CANYON. A California Story. Illustrated. 16mo, $1.25.
TIMOTHY'S QUEST. A Story for Anybody, Young or Old, who cares to read
  it. 16mo, $1.00. Holiday Edition. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, $1.50.
POLLY OLIVER'S PROBLEM. Illustrated. 16mo, $1.00. In Riverside School
  Library. 60 cents, net; postpaid.
THE VILLAGE WATCH-TOWER. 16mo, $1.00
MARM LISA, 16mo, $1.00.
NINE LOVE SONGS, AND A CAROL. Music by Mrs. Wiggin. Words by Herrick,
  Sill, and others. Square 8vo, $1.25.

       *       *       *       *       *

By Mrs. Wiggin and Miss Nora Archibald Smith

THE STORY HOUR. A Book for the Home and Kindergarten. Illustrated. 16mo,
  $1.00.
CHILDREN'S RIGHTS. A Book of Nursery Logic. 16mo, $1.00.
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILDHOOD. In three volumes. Each, 16mo, $1.00.
    I. FROEBEL'S GIFTS.
   II. FROEBEL'S OCCUPATIONS.
  III. KINDERGARTEN PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN AND COMPANY Boston and New York