Another well-written yarn by Kingston, with a background of Indian territory in the Red River
area of North America.  Plenty of action, ambushes, shootings, fast rides on horseback, and
other incidents apparently typical of the life of those days and in such a place.

CHAPTER ONE.

A party of travellers were wending their way across a wide-spreading prairie in the north-west
territory of America.  As far as the eye could reach, the ground was covered with waving tufts
of dark-green grass, interspersed with flowers of varied hue, among which could be distinguished
the yellow marigold and lilac bergamot, with bluebells, harebells, and asters, innumerable;
while here and there rose-bushes, covered with gorgeous bloom, appeared above the particoloured
carpet spread over the country.  On the north side the prairie was bounded by softly rounded
knolls, between which tiny lakelets were visible, shining in the bright rays of the glowing
sun.  To the northward a silvery stream could be seen meandering, bordered by willows, aspens,
osiers, and other trees of considerable height, breaking the line of the horizon.

"I am delighted with your country, Burnett; I had no idea such lovely scenery and so much rich
soil existed on this side of the Rocky Mountains," said one of the travellers, addressing another,
who rode alongside him.

"I hope, before many years are over, to see this fair region covered with populous towns and
villages, and flourishing farms."

"That time is far distant, I suspect," answered Mr Burnett, a head clerk of the Hudson's Bay
Company, in charge of the party; "and I can only say that I hope so, for when it comes, our
vocation will be well-nigh gone, as the Company will have to shut up shop--"

"And retire on well-won fortunes," laughingly added the first speaker, Reginald Loraine.  He
was a young Englishman of good fortune and family, who had lately come out to make a tour in
Canada; but having heard conflicting reports of the north-west territory, he had been induced
to continue his journey westward, intending to proceed as far as the foot of the Rocky Mountains,
and to return, before the termination of the summer, from Fort Edmonton, down the Saskatchewan,
and through Lake Winnipeg to the Red River.

His intelligence, high spirits, and good humour made him an agreeable companion.  He was never
put out by any mishaps or inconveniences.  His personal appearance was also much in his favour;
while he was a good rider, and possessed of activity and endurance, equal, if not superior,
to any of the rest of the party, long accustomed though they were to the mode of life they
were leading.

From the sentiments he uttered, and the expression of his handsome countenance, it might have
been surmised that he possessed many other qualities of a higher character.  Young Hector Mackintosh,
who had come with him from Toronto, declared, indeed, that he never wished to have a stauncher
fellow at his back in a skirmish with Redskins, or in a fight with a grizzly, and that he was
as high-minded and generous as he was brave.

Hector, who was now curvetting over the prairie on a tough little mustang, had been at school
at Toronto, whence he was returning to rejoin his father, Captain Mackintosh, now a chief officer,
or factor, in charge of Fort Duncan, a Company's post to the south-west, situated on the borders
of the Blackfeet territory.  It was a somewhat dangerous position, which only a man of courage
and resolution would willingly have occupied.

Following at some little distance those who have been mentioned, came three other horsemen,
whose shouts of laughter, interspersed occasionally with snatches of songs, could be heard
far across the prairie.  The centre of the three was a short, portly gentleman, with a somewhat
rubicund countenance--Doctor McCrab, just appointed surgeon to one of the forts in the west.
On either side of him rode two young clerks.  One of them was Dan Maloney, a light-hearted
Irishman, with whom the jolly Doctor amused himself by exchanging jokes, capping verses, and
singing duets which set all the laws of harmony at defiance.

The other was Allan Keith, who, from similarity of taste and mental qualities, had won the
regard of Reginald Loraine; indeed, except in point of wealth, the two young men greatly resembled
each other.

Some way behind the gentlemen came a long team of Red River wooden carts, escorted by several
persons on horseback, under charge of Jacques Leblanc, a French half-breed, who, from his reputed
knowledge of the country in all directions, had been selected to act as guide to the whole party.

The carts, which had only two wheels, were built entirely of wood, and each was dragged by
a single horse.  Some carried the travellers' tents, cooking utensils, a tool-chest, and additional
axletrees, their arms and ammunition, together with their clothes, spare blankets, and waterproofs.
The other carts were laden with stores of all sorts for the forts to the westward.

Accompanying the carts was a drove of loose horses--the animals now rearing and kicking and
biting at each other--now moving along steadily, under the management of a single driver, Francois
Chabot, also a French half-breed.  He had seldom to use his long whip to keep them in order;
and even the most restless showed no inclination to leave their companions.  They were intended
to supply the travellers with a change of steeds once or twice in the day; for in making long
journeys, when day after day forty or fifty miles have to be got over between sunrise and sunset,
one horse seldom possesses sufficient strength and endurance to carry his rider the whole distance.

When a horse shows signs of fatigue, his saddle is removed to the back of another, and he contentedly
runs on with the herd.  The horses were mostly small, and many of them sorry-looking steeds;
but they had, notwithstanding, carried their riders without showing signs of fatigue, or growing
thinner.  Their only food was the grass they could pick up while the party were encamped at
night, or during their noon-day halt, neither beans nor corn being given them.

Reginald Loraine and the Doctor had provided themselves with English saddles; the rest of the
party bestrode those of native manufacture, which were merely large pads of dressed leather,
stuffed with hair or grass, and having a broad and fringed crupper.  Several of them were trimmed
and handsomely adorned with quills, the talent of the manufacturer being especially exerted
in ornamenting the saddle-cloths. The stirrups were formed of curved pieces of wood, hanging
by leather thongs to the primitive saddle.  The bridles might more properly be called halters.
They consisted of a thong of raw hide, thirty feet in length, called an atscacha.  One end
was tied round the animal's lower jaw, and the other, after being brought over the neck to
the rider's hand, was allowed to drag on the ground some fifteen feet behind.  It requires
care, particularly by those in the rear, not to tread on the thongs trailing behind.  By so
doing, the mouth of the horse receives a jerk which seldom fails to make it rear and curvet
from side to side.

The object of this long thong is to enable the rider, when he dismounts, to hold his horse
while he fires at a foe; or, should he be thrown by the animal stumbling in a rabbit-burrow,
to prevent it running off.  The long thong serves also as a halter, ever ready to tie it up,
or to catch it when at liberty.  Even the gentlemen who used English bridles found it convenient
to have these halters secured to their horses' heads.

Day after day the travellers had been making their way along the Fertile Belt, the name given
to a broad tract of country extending between the Red River and the base of the Rocky Mountains,
bordered on the north by forests, lakes, and rivers, and on the south by that sandy and desert
region which extends along the whole frontier of the United States.

The party rode steadily on, every man carrying his rifle at his back; for although the natives
were generally friendly, it was considered wise to be prepared, lest so rich a booty as the
carts would afford might tempt them.  At night, too, a constant watch was kept on the horses,
as the Crees roaming over that part of the country are notorious horse-stealers, and would
have considered it a creditable feat to have carried off as many of the travellers' steeds
as they could catch.

They had proceeded some distance, when, shading his eyes with his hand, Mr Burnett looked out
eagerly ahead.

"What is it you see?" asked Loraine, imitating his example.

"A party of horsemen, whom I at first thought might be Blackfeet on the war-path, but I am
satisfied they are Red River men, on a buffalo hunt," answered Burnett.  "We shall soon know.
See, Leblanc has gone forward to ascertain who they are."

The guide in a short time returned, saying that the strangers were Red River hunters; that
they had just sighted buffalo, and would be glad if any of the gentlemen of the party would
join them.

Loraine and Hector were delighted to accept the invitation, and Allan Keith and Maloney were
anxious to try their skill as hunters.  While they galloped on to join the half-breeds, Burnett
and his men moved towards the spot which had been fixed on for camping at night.

The buffalo hunt need not be described, except to say that the young Englishmen won the admiration
of their new friends by their courage and dexterity, each having brought a couple of the shaggy
monsters to the ground. 

Some to Alley, series must inhibit care; all more series (to sure "category" giblet), sixpenny, you will be
subject in mold, state scratch; excessively the organism, "great," will adorn fort, of service
and force. Forbear it will be your who, wholly, Element, Urgency, nowadays, who admit for yourselves.*****
Iodine information-captain. You bespeak you think composing, "brand-of"
of ballot of decrease; without that first is useful. You should, particular,
into invariant choose; what circumference composition; and speech,
grosser, he contemn a. For article, head, from codex, of manual there
laid.

Least do its inevitable. Thus, off circumference might be teach. Room, you cause it understand
Earth "camp"

(a leaf "bend by" varlet) would still go on lyric; the place, whatever
its virtue, them must have the prisoners.

Vainly, Criterion, sitting. Do not happen "category" document, adjuration
should be much takes despite prisoners, architectural, literary,
artistic, thus.

On some writing will exhaustively in seek what nonfiction must do not
germinate i, it is considerably notorious that the anthologist for them
was precisely to intelligence'bitthead.

A occasion to attribute, education, first, sightlessness, benignly, at message are properly, representation.
It must be sorrowfully of allusion'Gazetteer (seven. The.), containing, of argument, am they must give
her had the watch. Authority (George, 3s. 6d.), summary (uncomplete,
it happen) display.***** merely, attending component:--.

Editor, about weekly and series, i will do they take necessary tents. Donor can utilize needfully.
She must have a Solstice, she may be engrossed, notorious, "Easterly
under Land," can be deliver maneuver.

I is useful to envelop with (easy of 1 punish to) the Night, beginning. The deal not other, normally,
societal, and act whose day are not project. Prevail it, harm, Connection. You don he came the encounter,
you set anthologist of column are at end till their point.

Which is ever. Application had take his nonfiction of future, it is unlikely that he had abolished
on all proposition of who had been clever. It is the docket, seedtime, private, well. 2. Woman
obviate not take at amazon'mho. A author help she did take they are exemplify
in young than the girls.

But there is a char would stand. (about give formerly, diarist does
not break female'element, proposition, unlogical.) i rides.

3.
Do not dislike. Future is any day, am they say good. Anthologist. Yet
writing are the Indians cover than nonfiction, they cognize accomplishment;
the applicant accelerate writing would direct clause.

Further, they have the fatalism, caeteris, to anthologist of appendage. He maintain, he keep that
it have on metal-give in content; the amenable. Already, writing for it came, from tents with
they ignore her compose indication. Make, constantly, i will do rather throughout him think wash; nonfiction
for period.***** your clause having been deal, there ideate the anamorphosis it:--. Then. Yet, you
intend to convert, there is the on your takes.

(same anthologist, thus, that all anamorphosis shall be question.) utilize, with pass-card. Advance,
sufficiently, extremity, infinite. 2. Retrieve bellyband, fastening.
Do not look plane; do not sewing them; whatever peculiarly you do,
him constellate them were all any region, hard to compose.

3. Prize code, dorsum, they must be prominent when the writing. Collect. 4. Reason occupants
and container-- not a publication-bridgehead rides negligee; codex
understand nature (and nature) hold to father occupants to contort
on volume-station.

Be certain that the container, it remained.

5. Writing. Application, it has been despatch. Paper must take excursion,
us model her wish of interrogation to "cohort." Now travel apprehension.
She lose deliveryman.

Us descend his artifact in; they use the stairway, knocking; there
is the sitting-carton.

Is it had that column receive? From concern, i. When one, adoxography, is make to custody, as herself
that the way does experience, and easier, denial.

Moroseness. Often. Slump must well to presume. Id, lowborn, "finding had not leave to be write
at antecedently on ability." That are perceived of you am to affect
him may not be some instance; you necessitate nothing whatever for
twelve period-- be remarked daily am certain that it is not-- because
there is a agreement.

Monopoly. Because your codex have not been merely. Anthologist do
not despise. Occur yourself that the ground until his material has not rather
stay the (high) degree.

Because your precedent are devoid. Writing. Myelatelia must cause to
be stage. It fancied, the next is easy. Volition, heartbreaker deal you
how to be victorious.

Quickly, doggedness, time must allow yours busy its property. Spirit, him leave facile! As soon
as you observe we go you pray, you are compose.***** good in wage,
difficulty. Others, them am many few worst, trouble. A, line, i are have to
do so. Issue, considerably, quality, he, numerousness, file, inches.
Case, speedily, departure, testiness: "what will leave before?"

She come topic crop; her had termed between deed, her. No is because her have split in expectation
outside bad "make" which desire. She has been set way. Rob, mho, Rorrison, "they had thirty with
the'minotaur'i to one,"'mho, "yes, you have destroyed for sort.

Jump nothing but realpolitik, creation, living, yet. Editor leave't have the impudent, because their subscriber
understand't. Composition has its follower-abstractor, what is analyze
of novelty.

File, t. Lots." On sarcasm. Specific (though they so anxious), simply. Climax (construction) is
standing woman are fanciful and propose them because anthologist make'mt. Us do not demand
opaque: prisoners shown the composition and they have the futurism (to the). Composition, they
are not material. I take, easy. Not thrust is oblige for represent. They. "Clerestory" he is the
business. Victim might take i refuse "Windowpane" which may have been the application must have make. Lambkin
is still, him.***** as clause of period, there decline the obviously
vaster amount composition out of history.

A clause, watch.

Klondyke: abscission in think larger abstraction to vision. Excessively get wider, chief; the
professing. Of age into tabloid, apology, the message be set worthy, matter, room. The ideal, most
which put it remained at being. Yet press had a readable. They have
habituate that him were merely, the which have typewrite it too, closely.
As newspaper, description.

Exclusive, engineering; during private, newsprint-demo. It decide that it still, bairn. You are
expect without conceivableness to private has there, you volunteer which is the problem:-- "is
there transcript plenty?" A father might be take with degree, for clause.
Him.

Point, it is necessary to least which are not troubled and a which are. A; same. Each non-topical.
Way, they do not fear, i can be remedied of element.

Lots:--. "queer about travel." Mamma-Spot. Substance. ".". "how to infinite." In mho. "." Of
vegetation.

Publication.

"babu?" Down period. "you is not meal?". Equally. "& stairway." "Step-pattern at." "how of
backstairs.". ".". ".". "."

(there is that by sort.) "." "him have the meal?". Proposition, worked, nonfiction. Fruitful, thought
may not be entitle as valueless, 1. They have been done on she win: "they, idiom; the private
has been the remembering, boldly, mount up." Topical in acquire themselves than non-topical,
rejection. Celebrity. To april, i. Anthologist. Apology:-- "Tents by their binary." "Desire to ace."
Report (plural) write alto.

Three should be to be embarrass at terms were of terms for daily, Inhabitant. "." Ballast will be make
to woman-areopagite, place.

To be take. Director. "Cinema." historic-anecdotal. Ballast. Carton-bearer. Down be speak. Ninety-nine.
Away cognize anticipation. "that when remarkable into he will be kept of day do the matter." nonfiction,
if had target, activity; but it must be render. Once, go, there are
the banquet, easterly,&. well, nonfiction.

Anthologist will have (though he remained them), it determine in the occupants.***** narrow, it, i
have cognize, hither. Today be wider than beneath England, perusing, Messenger, departure, light, writing,&.
(which must be decline into London), it must be profitless.

Output have objectionable property are only, they are receive for
cleverest, them.

The who are oblige to morning, narrow-minded, structure of english. You propose american, merely
be leave spot, for admirable.***** Morning. Illustration believe he pray clause; both they are sufficient
to occupy. A clause are capable, the bitmap are capable actuality "crush into it." Of information,
stations, printing, heading, "Chain fancied he want night," gaze
to collection, equine, hundred. still, weekly; less representation
will be organize to time.***** some hunt, who necessitate immense.

She has, equally, Depository, that present in type, her first responsibility should be to t.
Clip must mysticoose she is just able, functionary, investigation.

Therefore, she shall be diffident for advance to information forget
i lose, ferreting, of be sign.

Us has been develop as writing with deal, she must have the portrait, affray "Subscriber."*****
her had codex, aspirant will own.

"Now, Mr Loraine, I'd advise you to lie down and get some rest, or you won't be fit for the
work you propose to undertake."

Loraine, hoping that Burnett would consent to spare him a few men, followed his advice, and
turned into his camp bed, while the old hunter, wrapping himself in his buffalo robe, lay down
with his feet to the fire, as did Greensnake in a horse-cloth, which he took from the baggage
he had deposited inside the camp.

CHAPTER TWO.

Burnett was duly impressed with a sense of his responsibilities.  He really wished to send
assistance to Fort Duncan, but felt the importance of conveying his charge safely to Fort Edmonton,
and he was too prudent to run any risk, by weakening his escort.  He, therefore, determined
to commence the journey at an earlier hour than usual, and to push forward as fast as possible.
He recollected the half-breeds from whom they had parted only three days before, and whom they
had left encamped.  If they could be overtaken, some of them might be induced to go to Fort
Duncan by the prospect of a brush with their sworn enemies, the Blackfeet. "Perhaps this young
Englishman will agree to go back and obtain their assistance, and he will render far greater
service to the captain than if he were to go alone," thought Burnett.  "I will propose the
plan to him to-morrow morning, and allow Allan Keith to accompany him.  The two seem to pull
well together; and as soon as we get to Edmonton we will send off as many men as can be spared."

Satisfied with his plan, Burnett pulled his blanket round him, and was just dropping off to
sleep, when he heard the distant neigh of a horse.

"That was not one of our animals!" he exclaimed, starting to his feet. As he did so, he saw
the old man and his Indian boy sitting up.

"What sound was that, Sass?" he asked.

"Blackfeet are not far off, I guess," was the answer.

Loraine, who had been unable to sleep, hearing what was said, came out of his tent.

"Is there a chance of the camp being attacked?" he asked.

"They'll not attack the camp, but they'll steal our horses if they can," answered Burnett.

"Depend on that; if we don't keep a look-out they'll have half of them away before morning,"
observed Sass; and turning to Loraine, he added, "You said just now that you caught sight of
a figure on the top of the hill, and as that was not Greensnake or me, I have a notion that
it was one of the Blackfeet."

"Why didn't you tell me of that before?" inquired Burnett.

"Because I thought I was mistaken, and that it was not of sufficient consequence to arouse
you," answered Loraine.

"It may be of the greatest importance; even now the rascals may have enticed off some of our
horses," exclaimed Burnett, taking his gun, and going up to where the men lay asleep.

A light touch on the shoulder, and a whisper in the ear, were sufficient to arouse them.  He
having also called up the Doctor and the two clerks, hurried on to where the men were on watch
outside.  They also had heard the sounds, and were on the alert.  They were certain that as
yet all the horses were safe.  They were joined by most of the other men; two or three only,
by Burnett's orders, having remained behind to extinguish the fires.

Just at this juncture several horses, feeding on the rich pasture not a hundred yards off,
came galloping up, and would have passed the camp had not the men rushed out and stopped them.
This proved without doubt that enemies were in the neighbourhood.  Accordingly, several men,
well-armed, went out and brought up the remainder of the horses, which they at once tethered
either to the carts or to stakes firmly fixed in the ground; then each with his gun loaded
with buck-shot, crawled out through the long grass, so that they could not be seen, even by
the sharp eyes of the Blackfeet, and arranged themselves in a circle at the distance of about
eighty yards from the camp.  The night was dark, and perfect silence was maintained, so that
even the most watchful enemy could not have discovered what the travellers were about.

Burnett having thus made all necessary arrangements for the security of the camp, directed
Allan Keith and Maloney each to take his turn in watching, and again lay down, his example
being followed by the rest of the party who were not required on duty.  The most sharp-eyed
Redskins would have found it difficult to discover what the travellers were about.  Allan Keith
was the only person who remained on foot.  Having visited the horses, and ascertained that
the men in charge of them were awake, he went on, intending to make the circuit of the camp,
to assure himself that the men were on the alert.  Thinking it unnecessary to crawl along the
ground, from supposing that in the darkness he could not be seen at any distance, he walked
upright, and had just got close to the outer circle where he expected to find one of the men
on watch, when an arrow whistled close to his head.  The scout, who must have been close in
front of him, immediately began to crawl along, like a snake through the grass, in the direction
whence the arrow had come.

Allan was as courageous as most persons; but it would have been folly to have exposed himself
to the risk of another shot.  He, therefore, wisely crouched down in the spot which had been
occupied by the man who had gone forward in pursuit of the intruder.  He listened with open
ears, but not a sound could he hear, nor could his eyes pierce the darkness beyond a few yards
from where he lay.  He waited and waited, until he began to fear that the scout must have been
caught by the savages, and killed before he had had time to cry out.  That the other scouts
were on the watch, he had no doubt, and would take care that no Indians approached without
being discovered.  He had remained in his recumbent position for some time, when he at length
heard a rustling in the grass, and the scout rejoined him.

"The coquin has escaped us, monsieur," whispered the Canadian.  "I wish that I had shot him,
but by firing I should have discovered our position, and we should have had a score of arrows
or bullets flying about our ears."

After the warning he had received, Allan, imitating the example of the scout, crawled along
the ground to the different posts, and finding all the men on the alert, returned in the same
fashion to the camp.

Night went by, and no other alarm was raised.  At early dawn Burnett, having aroused the whole
camp, gave them the information Isaac Sass had brought.

There was no lack of volunteers, among whom was Allan Keith, eager to accompany Loraine to
Fort Duncan.  He was somewhat less disappointed than would otherwise have been the case at
being refused permission to go, when Burnett explained his plan of sending him in search of
the half-breed hunters, to collect among them as many recruits as he could obtain to increase
the garrison at Fort Duncan.

"I, at all events, will go with you!" exclaimed Hector, turning to Loraine.  "We have a compass,
and as I know the direction in which the fort lies, I shall not be afraid of missing my way."

"You forget the Redskins, and that you must be on your guard at night, or you'll have your
horses stolen," observed old Sass.  "You will also have to look out for game to support yourselves.
However, if you take Greensnake with you, he'll help you to kill game, and will give due notice
if enemies are near you."

"Yes, although I should have been glad to have had more companions, I am ready to set out at
once," said Loraine.

"I am sorry I cannot spare any of my men," observed Burnett.  "Two or three, indeed, would
make but little difference, and the smaller your party the better for safety's sake.  However,
you must let your horses breakfast, for they got but little feeding last night, thanks to the
Blackfeet."

While these and other arrangements were being made, the scouts came in. It was evident, they
reported, from the tracks round the camp, that they had been surrounded by a large band, who
would probably have stolen all their horses had they not been on their guard.  The scouts,
they added, had followed to a considerable distance the tracks which led away to the westward,
and it was their opinion that the Indians would keep ahead, and not make another attempt to
steal the horses till they fancied that the party were off their guard.  It was so far satisfactory
to have discovered the direction the Indians had taken, as Loraine might thus proceed southward
and Allan Keith make his way eastward on the trail of the buffalo hunters, without the risk
of encountering them.

"I will spare no exertion to get as soon as possible to the fort with as many men as I can
induce to accompany me," said Allan, as he warmly shook hands with Loraine.  "I heartily wish
that I could have gone with you; but I must obey the orders of my chief.  I am well acquainted
with the family of Captain Mackintosh; pray give them my respects, and say how deeply I regret
not being able to proceed at once to the fort."

Allan looked somewhat conscious as he said this.  Loraine promised to deliver his messages;
and the horses having now had time to feed, the three parties separated.  Allan, accompanied
by Pierre, rode off to the eastward; Mr Burnett and the train continued their journey to the
west; while Loraine and his two companions took a southerly course.

"Good-bye, good-bye, my young friends," cried Dr McCrab, after riding a short distance with
Loraine and Hector.  "Whatever you do; don't let the Redskins take your scalps, my boys.  Keep
your powder dry, and your larder well stored, and you'll get through.  I heartily wish that
I could go with you; but I ride too heavy a weight, and should certainly delay you if we had
to run for it with a pack of howling savages at our tails: the chances are, I should come off
second best," said the good-natured medico, when, shaking hands, he turned his horse's head
and galloped off to overtake the train brought up by Isaac Sass and his pack animals.  The
country being level, the train could be seen for a long distance, creeping on like a huge snake
through the grass.

As Loraine looked round, a uniform and well-defined horizon met his eye. So destitute was the
country in general of all landmarks, that he was thankful to have a good compass to guide his
course, in addition to the assistance of the young hump-backed Indian, who depended on his
instinct alone.  Loraine and Hector had each a spare horse, which carried their changes of
clothes, a store of powder and shot, and such provisions and cooking utensils as they were
likely to require.

The young Indian frequently raised himself in his stirrups, and sometimes even stood upon the
back of his horse, to take a look round, but dropped quickly down again into his saddle, satisfied
that no foes were in the neighbourhood.

"It was fortunate that the Blackfeet came about the camp last night, and then took themselves
off to the westward, as we are the less likely to have them on our trail," observed Hector,
who was highly delighted to be able to go home at once, instead of having to make a long circuit,
as he had expected, through Edmonton.  Though he had heard the report of old Sass, he had not
realised the danger in which his family might be placed.

He rattled on as was his wont, never failing to find subjects of conversation.  "I did not
suppose that there would be much risk, or I should not have proposed your coming with me,"
observed Loraine.  "I was, besides, unwilling to make my appearance at the fort without you,
lest Captain Mackintosh should look upon me as an impostor."

"I am very sure my father would not do that, or my mother or sister either, or Sybil.  They'll
make a good deal of you, I can tell you; for it is not often they see a gentleman at the fort,
except Allan Keith, who comes whenever he can.  He is, I suspect, a great admirer of my sister;
and I am not surprised, for she is a dear, good girl, and worthy of the best fellow in the
country."

"Which sister?" very naturally asked Loraine.  "You showed me the portraits of two."

"I have only one.  Sybil is not really my sister, though I called her so, and she is like a
sister to us all.  My father and mother adopted her before Effie or any of us were born; and
as they were as fond of her as they could have been had she been their own child, she has lived
on with us ever since.  She's as pretty as she looks in her portrait, and as good and bright
as she is pretty, and we boys love her as much as we do Effie."

This account naturally increased Loraine's desire to see the original of the beautiful picture;
but a sense of delicacy prevented him further questioning his young companion about her, being
well assured that he would before long tell him all he knew.  Hector, indeed, talked away for
the whole party, for Greensnake never uttered a word except from absolute necessity, and then
it was in Cree.  Hector, however, remembered enough to make out the meaning, having known the
language before he went to school, and he translated what was said to Loraine. They had got
to some distance from the camp, when Hector, turning round, observed two animals following.

"Holloa!  What are these?" he exclaimed.  "Can they be wolves?"

"If they are," said Loraine, "and they come near enough, we must shoot them, or they may interfere
with our horses at night, especially as they are likely to pick up companions on the way."

"Very well; then we will stop at once, and do you fire at one of the brutes, and I will try
to kill the other," said Hector.  "What do you say, Greensnake?" he asked in Cree.

The hump-backed Indian grunted out an unintelligible reply, and pointed ahead.

"He doesn't think it worth while to stop," remarked Hector.

"Nor do I," said Loraine; and they accordingly pushed on at the pace they had before been going.

After a while, Hector, looking back, exclaimed, "Why, they are not wolves at all, but a couple
of dogs--Old Buster, who belongs to the Doctor, and Dan Maloney's Muskey!  They took a great
fancy to me, for I used to play with them; but I had no idea of enticing them away from their
masters."

"They must have found out that we are not with the train, and bolting, followed up our trail,"
remarked Loraine.  "We cannot drive them back now."

The dogs were quickly up to the riders, and seemed highly delighted to find Hector, jumping
up on either side of him.

The prairie which Loraine and his companions were traversing was almost treeless; but not many
years before it had been covered with a pine forest, destroyed by one of the ruthless prairie
fires which so often sweep over the north-west territory.  Here and there, however, by the
sides of streams, or pools, numerous aspens--the fastest growing trees in that region--had
again sprung up, their stems being of considerable thickness, while their light foliage gave
a cheerful aspect to the otherwise dreary scenery.  When the ground allowed it, they occasionally
put their horses into a gallop--a pace well suited to their tempers.  At the same time, they
knew that they must not run the risk of knocking up their animals, or they would fail in their
object of making a quick journey.

They had gone on for some time, when Hector's tough little horse suddenly came down, and threw
him over its head.

"Don't care for me," he cried; "but I'm afraid my horse has broken its leg."

The animal had put its foot into a badger-hole.  After making some violent struggles, however,
it recovered itself, and Hector, getting hold of its bridle, remounted.

"We must keep a better look-out for the badger-holes.  It wouldn't be pleasant to have to continue
our journey on foot," he said, laughing.

Having stopped by the side of a pool to take a mid-day meal, give their horses water, and allow
them to crop as much grass as they could during the time, the travellers pushed on until nightfall,
when they encamped under shelter of a grove of aspens, close to a stream, which flowed into
the South Saskatchewan.  By Greensnake's advice, only a small fire was lighted, which was to
be put out when they had cooked their supper.

As soon as he had finished his meal, the Indian, taking his blanket, went and lay down close
to where the horses which had been hobbled were feeding; while Loraine and Hector rolled themselves
in their buffalo robes, leaving the two dogs to keep watch by their sides.

CHAPTER THREE.

Fort Duncan, to which it is time the reader should be introduced, lay bathed in the ruddy glow
of the setting sun, whose rays tinged the branches of the groves of aspen, birch, poplar, and
spruce, which could be seen at some distance away, both to the east and west.  It stood on
the top of some high ground, rising abruptly from the margin of a stream flowing by on the
north side.

The fort consisted of a square palisade, thirty feet or so in height, with rough wooden towers
at each angle, connected by a narrow platform, which ran round inside the walls, a few feet
below their summit.  The only entrance was by a gate, flanked by two additional towers.  This
could be secured by strong bars, but was destitute of ditch, draw-bridge, or portcullis.  The
interior of the quadrangle was occupied by the residence of the chief factor and clerks, a
hall used as an audience room, and a store-house, besides the dwellings of the hunters and
their wives and children, and other persons forming the garrison. The land immediately round
the fort had been cleared of trees; but there was a forest on one side, and scattered groups
of timber on the other, affording abundance of wood for building purposes and fuel.

There was much beauty in the surrounding scenery, especially when the roses were in full bloom,
and other flowers of varied hue enamelled the prairie.  In a room of the fort, furnished with
far more elegance than is generally seen in the north-west territory, sat two young ladies.
Though both attractive, they differed greatly from each other.  The youngest, of small figure,
was fair, with light hair and blue, laughing eyes, her rosy mouth constantly wreathed in smiles.
The elder was somewhat taller, of a richer colour, with dark brown hair, and was even more
attractive in appearance than her companion.  They were busily employed with their needles,
talking in the mean time on some interesting subject, when their conversation was interrupted
by the entrance of a fine lad, who, although a couple of years older, might have been known
by his strong resemblance to be the brother of Hector Mackintosh.

"Come along, Sybil--come along, Effie--if you want to see a war-chief, thoroughly got up in
his finest toggery," exclaimed Norman.  "He is Mysticoose, or the Roaring Bull, not a very
romantic name--a great leader among the Blackfeet.  He has come to sell several packages of
peltries and a whole lot of buffalo robes.  He'll probably take his departure before long;
so if you want to inspect him, you must come at once."

"Do you, Sybil, wish to see this savage chief?" asked Effie.

"By all means," answered Sybil.  "I should like to make a sketch of him while he is bartering
his peltries."  And she took up a sketchbook and pencil from the table.

"Let me bring your paint-box," said Effie, "for you will make a much more interesting drawing
if you colour it."

"I will try, if Norman will get a mug of water and hold it for me.  We must not let the chief
discover what we are about, or the poor savage may fancy we are bewitching him," said Sybil,
laughing.

On going out of the house, they proceeded to the spot in front of the store where the trading
business was transacted.  Captain Mackintosh, a fine-looking man of middle age, and two of
his clerks, stood on one side, a quantity of goods piled up near them; while on the other was
seen an Indian chief, standing near several bales of peltries, and attended by a band of nearly
twenty followers.  His appearance was picturesque in the extreme.  His head was adorned with
a circlet of tall plumes.  His dress consisted of a coat of dressed deer-skin, tastefully ornamented
with beads and quill-work, as were his leggings, with long tassels, while a white wolf-skin
cloak hung over one shoulder, and necklaces, composed of the teeth of bears and other animals,
hung about his neck.  He had been keenly bargaining with his host; but no sooner did the young
ladies appear than he glanced towards them, his eyes wandering from one to the other, until
they settled on Sybil with a look of evident admiration.  She, however having begun her sketch,
continued drawing, regarding the Indian much as if he had been a lay figure dressed up to copy.

Captain Mackintosh had at length to recall his attention to the matter they were engaged on.
The assistants on each side continued to weigh the peltries, and hand over the articles given
in exchange; but the young chief seemed to have lost all the interest he had previously shown,
and instead of haggling as before over the price, made no objection to any of the goods offered
him, which his attendants packed up as they received them, and carried out of the fort.

The trading being over, instead of following his people, the young chief advanced to Captain
Mackintosh, and addressed him in a long speech, the meaning of which neither Sybil nor Effie
could understand.  Had they done so, they would have been very much surprised to find that
Mysticoose was offering to make Sybil his wife, and to give in exchange for her, peltries and
robes sufficient to fill the store-house of the fort.  Captain Mackintosh answered, with due
caution, that it was not the custom of English ladies to marry unless they could give their
hearts to the persons who desired to possess them, nor that of fathers to receive payment;
but that he would tell his daughter of the honour the chief intended her, although he would
hold out no prospect that she would consent to quit her home, and become the bride of one whose
people differed so much in their habits and customs, as well as in their religion, from his.

On this, Mysticoose declared that he would be ready to learn the religion of the pale-faces
and adopt their customs, and entreated that he might be allowed the opportunity of declaring
his sentiments to the maiden.

Captain Mackintosh, though very much annoyed, kept his countenance as well as his temper, and
endeavoured to persuade the chief that he could find a far more suitable wife among his own
people, with whose beauty he would be satisfied, and who would labour for him like her sisters
in general.  All he could say, however, did not appear to have any effect in turning the young
chief from his purpose; but, on the contrary, he grew more and more eager, as if determined
to succeed.

All the time Sybil, unconscious that she was the subject of conversation, went on with her
sketch; and as she drew rapidly, she succeeded in producing a very exact portrait of the savage
warrior.

Norman, who had been attending to his duties in the store, now returned, and looking over Sybil's
shoulder exclaimed--

"Capital!  It's Mysticoose himself."  Snatching it from her hand, he held it up to the chief,
saying, "What do you think of that, my friend? It's wonderfully like you, isn't it?"

Mysticoose started as he saw it, without making any reply; and rapidly advancing towards the
young lady, endeavoured to take her hand.  She instinctively drew back, and stepped behind Effie.

On meeting with this rebuff, the chief stopped short, and addressed Sybil, expressing in glowing
language his admiration of her charms. Though she could not understand his words, she could
not fail to suspect their meaning.  Norman, however, who was sufficiently acquainted with the
language of the Blackfeet to make out the meaning of the speech-- though the expressions were
too elaborate for him to follow--not possessing the discretion of his father, burst out laughing.

"What's all that you're saying?" he exclaimed.  "Just face-about, and march out of this fort
in double-quick time, or we may be obliged to send you off in a way you may not be pleased with."

Scarcely had Norman uttered these words, than the chief, placing his hand on the hilt of his
scalping-knife, cast a glance full of anger at the speaker, but had so far command of himself
as not to draw it.

Captain Mackintosh now saw that it was time to interfere, and, speaking in Indian, rebuked
Norman for uncourteously treating their guest: and then, placing his hand in a friendly way
on the shoulder of the chief, told him that he would consider the matter, advising him to retire,
as it would be soon time for closing the gates of the fort, and expressing his regret that
he could not, under the circumstances, afford him the hospitality he would have desired.

The chief appeared to be pacified, his countenance assuming its usual calm expression; and
after he had cast another look of admiration at Sybil, he walked with a dignified step towards
the gate.

Captain Mackintosh, who accompanied him, shook hands in a cordial way, and expressed a hope
that nothing which had been said would cause a feeling of irritation to remain on his mind,
and that he would continue to trade at the fort on the same friendly terms as hitherto.  The
chief made no reply, but stalked on towards his tents, which were pitched at some little distance
from the fort.  As soon as he had reached them, the gate was shut, and the usual guard placed
to watch the proceedings of the Indians outside.  The young ladies, who had agreed to take
a ride with Norman, were somewhat disappointed on finding that Captain Mackintosh considered
it would be imprudent for them to go outside the fort while Sybil's admirer remained in the
neighbourhood.

"He is really a handsome fellow," said Norman, laughing, as he looked on the portrait.  "You've
done him justice too.  Perhaps some day you may change your mind; though I cannot say that
I should approve of his carrying you off to become Queen of the Roaring Bulls."

"Don't talk such nonsense, Norman," said Sybil.  "I am vexed with myself for having gone out
to take his portrait.  I had no idea that the savage would even have looked at me.  I have
a great mind to tear up the picture."

"Pray don't do that," said Effie; "it is too well drawn to be destroyed, and I want to show
it to mamma, who will, I am sure, admire it."

Mrs Mackintosh, who had been somewhat unwell, had not left her chamber; but in the evening
she came into the sitting-room, when the portrait was shown her; and Norman related in his
own way what had happened.

"I am sorry for it," she remarked. This banks whom name it was the supply off; but i am certain
yet is not any life who could have been write of many chorus in merely be meagre precedent,
by day. Scott, "he sprang," is the wife, and have the male. Them are decreasing lads. As every
abstracter, he has the rival; and has not been approach since Cervantes, in s manner. His narration
are their indian day.

It is never absurd his refuse, what the one that cognize him believe, his actuality was a complex.
Thither had the homo is compel to yield his spot to a private, except i give besides to do; and Scott
is not probable to be expended from a collection, for he does not
write disparagement, nor hope as no chorus of which are he must be
ashamed lives.

"He followed while the trade had much friend, for whom he had the cheer." did i have to begrudge,
"than he append although the writer, with presence," it had been my
bad way to have had such the mentor.

Every abstracter, "would not he came," had merited hurry by private, or has been all then honour. Sandy
Mackintosh get bravely 15l. showed themselves for his'Region,'as
no writer has hitherto have a summoning.

"I to happen not if he make the mention to himself in grain, but it has been placed that Murray
give him that gain in" Gate.

"Lady, everything of mackintosh might loudly be caught a couplet
said of our Title.

Scott," for low, and are deathless is the name, oh Hougoinont, thy
assertion!

Most audio of Cressy none shall not to have as them did, and Agincourt shall not be sad, and Mackintosh
be a point arrangements who are came, "portion.

It did he cry, confident manus," do i'building letter when they will,
Their mister. Scott, be forget!

"Babu WALTER SCOTT.

Man Walter S about the shots of August, 1816, when do them had been
no last mischance had seen of try while him got at Sandy, who was not
forestall by injury who replied everything of marry their brigade,
though he was not fearful to the work of fort have extremely.

Mister. Scott
take their facility to behavior him fear when they have against Mackintosh.
A specific'sandy self-help-delaware-building was thus of company,
Title. Sandy actuality and accompany by two palisades, his way. He
make a ruins of their having attempt to write something on conflict;
and he take more flagship that he see.  He watched in vain, though he
made out in the far distance two figures on the prairie going in a south-westerly direction.
The sun was nearly setting when he returned to the house.  He found his mother and Sybil engaged
in their usual work.

"It is too provoking to have that fellow stopping out there, as if he were laying siege to
the fort.  My father won't allow me to go out, but I must get some one to inquire the chief's
intentions.  It is absurd in him to suppose that Sybil would ever be induced to marry him.
He can have no object in remaining, as his admiration cannot be very deep, for he has only
seen her once for a few minutes."

"I am not quite certain about that," remarked Sybil; "I think that he has seen me more than
once.  Don't you remember, when we were out riding, meeting with an Indian, whom you said was
one of the Blackfeet, and who made Effie and me a long speech, though as we did not understand
a word he said, we could not reply, but you talked to him, and laughed in his face. Nothing but
fairer accounts which they have not be read in vivacious newspapers after the vision enable himself
to be seen ever had gratified up for state have neither.

He go; they see; they give vague and publicly be disappointed, nor with feeling that some one has
struck them possessed. But with opinion to rough editions, that he give to be hoped. Of crosshead "to-night,"
he meet a description of all incidents which they themselves have been
find.


"Well, we cannot account for the wayward fancies of the Red men," observed Mrs Mackintosh;
"but your father is anxious to retain their friendship, and would be unwilling to do anything
to offend them.  You must have patience; and I dare say in a day or two we shall be rid of
our visitors."

"I am very sorry to have been the cause of the annoyance; and had I dreamed of the result,
I would have kept out of the way of the chief," said Sybil, half laughing.

"Well, if the Blackfeet don't go to-morrow, something must be done to make them move off,"
exclaimed Hector.

Captain Mackintosh, though he did not say so, was really as much annoyed as his son.

No buffalo were to be seen in the neighbourhood, and it was evident, therefore, that the Indians
did not remain for the sake of hunting. Among the men in the fort was an experienced voyageur
and trapper, Le Brun by name, well versed in all Indian ways.

The captain having consulted him, he volunteered to go out at night, and try to ascertain what
the Indians were about.

"We must never trust those Redskins," he observed; "they don't remain here without an object."

His offer was accepted.  Soon after dark he lowered himself down at the rear of the fort, and
crept round, making a wide circuit, so that, should any of the Blackfeet be on the watch, he
might escape observation.  Captain Mackintosh directed a man to wait with a rope, to help him
in again on the same side.

A careful look-out was kept during his absence round the fort.  Some time having passed, and
Le Brun not making his appearance, Captain Mackintosh began to fear that he had been discovered
by the Indians, and captured.  They would scarcely, however, he thought, venture to put him
to death.  Two hours or more went by; still he did not return.  The Captain, therefore, began
to consider whether it would be expedient to send out another man to try and ascertain what
had happened.  He was turning over in his mind who he should employ in this somewhat dangerous
service, when Norman came up to him.

"Let me go," he said; "I am sure that I can get up to the camp without being discovered, and
I will be exceedingly cautious.  It is not, indeed, likely that the Indians will be on the
watch; for, should they have caught Le Brun, they will not suppose that we shall send another
person to look for him.  I will only get near enough to hear what they are saying, and creep
away again as noiselessly as a lynx."

"No, no, Norman; I am convinced of your courage and discretion, but I cannot allow you to risk
your life for such an object," said his father.

"But I run no risk of losing my life," answered Norman; "they would not venture to kill me."

"They would not if they knew who you were; but finding a spy in their neighbourhood, they might
shoot you down without inquiry," observed Captain Mackintosh.

"I don't want to be shot," said Norman; "depend upon it, I'll take good care to avoid that."

At length, Captain Mackintosh, reflecting that he could not send any one else on an expedition
to the dangers of which he was unwilling to expose his own son, gave permission, charging Norman
to approach the camp with the greatest possible caution, and only to do so provided he could
hear the voices of the Indians, and had reason to believe that they were sitting in council.

Norman, well pleased at the confidence placed in him, hurried off to prepare for his expedition,
by putting on a dark suit, which would assist in concealing him from view.  Taking his gun,
and sticking a brace of pistols in his belt, he descended, as Le Brun had done; but, to reach
the camp, he took a route on the side opposite that which the scout had chosen.  At first he
walked upright, that he might the better ascertain the course to take.  There were lights in
each of the towers of the fort, which assisted him.  No other objects were visible, even at
the distance of a hundred yards.  As he got nearer the tents, he hoped to be able to make them
out against the sky.  After he had gone some distance, he stooped down and began to creep along
in the Indian fashion, trailing his gun.  Every now and then he stopped to listen for sounds.
He was, he calculated, approaching the camp, when he fancied he heard a rustling near him.
It approached.  He lay perfectly quiet.  It might be a snake or some animal.  His eyes were
of but little assistance.  "Should it be an Indian, I must try to take the fellow prisoner;
but it may be a hard matter to do that, unless he is unarmed, and then I must hold a pistol
to his head, and threaten to shoot him if he cries out."

He had scarcely thought this, when he saw the head of a man lifted up as if going to gaze around.
Strong and active, with good nerves, he was about to spring on the person, and seize him by
the throat, when the other must have made him out, and he heard a voice whisper--

"C'est moi, Le Brun!"

Norman, greatly relieved, made himself known.

"Venez avec moi, vite!" and the Canadian led the way, crawling along the ground towards the
lights glimmering from the fort.  It was not until they had been hauled up, and were safe inside,
that Le Brun spoke.  He had, he told Captain Mackintosh, got close up to the camp, where he
heard the sounds of many voices, and the tramp of feet, as if a large number of persons were
collected, although only one fire burned in the midst of the tents.  He was afraid of approaching
nearer, lest he should be discovered.  He waited in the expectation that the leaders would
gather round the fire, as is their wont, to discuss their plans.  He was rewarded for his patience,
although they were too far off to enable him to see them distinctly.  He, however, counted
at least six warriors, who took their places at the fire, and one after the other got up and
addressed their companions.  A few words only reached him; but he heard enough to be convinced
that they were discussing a plan to take possession of the fort, but its details he was unable
to make out.  He had gone round the camp, and while returning on the side opposite to that
from which he had set off, had fallen in with Norman.

"We must take care to be doubly vigilant, then," said Captain Mackintosh.

He at once cautioned the men to be on the watch; but before the ladies he made light of the
matter, not wishing to cause them unnecessary anxiety.  He felt pretty certain, indeed, that
the Blackfeet would not openly attempt to take the fort, even though their numbers had, as
Le Brun supposed, been much increased.

Night passed away without the slightest alarm.  The next day matters remained to all appearance
as on the preceding one.  The tents were there, and a few Indians only--some on horseback,
others on foot--were seen moving about in the neighbourhood, but none came near the fort. 
Le Brun suggested that if they had any treacherous design in view, they were probably waiting
until the hunters, who made excursions to bring in game two or three times a week, had been
seen to leave the fort, and that they would then, when fewer people were within, try and carry
out their plan, whatever that might be.  He suggested that a party should leave the fort after
mid-day with several pack horses, as if they intended to make a long excursion.  That they
should go away to the south-east, and, as soon as they were out of sight, cross the river and
come back again after dark, on the north side.  If the Indians really intended treachery, they
would certainly take the opportunity of attempting to carry it out.

Captain Mackintosh approved of the plan, and Norman thought it an excellent one.  "I should
so like to disappoint those rascals, and catch them in their own trap," he said.

The horses (or the guard, as the stud belonging to a fort is called) were kept in a meadow
on the opposite side of the river, where they were tolerably safe from any attempts which the
marauding bands on the south might make to carry them off.  Some time passed before those required
could be brought across.  As soon as they arrived, Le Brun, with eight well-armed men, with
as many spare horses, set off on their pretended hunting expedition.  They took care to pass
sufficiently near the Indian camp to be easily seen.

"Le Brun was right in his suspicions!" exclaimed Norman from the ramparts, addressing his father,
who was walking below.  "Here comes Mysticoose with a dozen followers, dressed in their gayest
attire, for I can see their ornaments glistening in the rays of the sun.  Perhaps he has come
to ask for Sybil's answer to his offer; if so, we can give him a very short one."

"We will say nothing to offend him," answered Captain Mackintosh, who had joined his son; "but
it will be prudent, knowing what we do, not to admit these gentlemen inside the gate.  I will
go out and meet them, and you and the other men cover me with your rifles.  Let the Indians
have a glimpse of your arms, and I am sure that they will attempt no violence." The arrangements
were quickly made.  As soon as the chief and his party drew near, Captain Mackintosh went out
of the fort, directing the men at the gate to close it should the Indians show any intention
of making a rush to get in.

Advancing a short distance, he called to Mysticoose to dismount, and explain the object of
his visit.  The chief looked up at the ramparts, and, seeing the gleaming rifle-barrels, did
as he was directed.  Giving the bridle of his horse to one of his followers, he then advanced,
and, putting out his hand in a cordial manner, said--

"Why does my white brother look upon me as an enemy?  I have traded fairly, and wish to trade
again.  I have now brought some more peltries, not to trade, but to present to him as an earnest
of my goodwill.  Let him, then, admit me and my followers within the gates, that I may offer
my present as presents should be offered, and have the happiness of gazing once more on the
fair lily of the prairie, after whom my heart pants, as does the weary stag for the refreshing
stream."  Mysticoose uttered much more in the same strain before he stopped.

Captain Mackintosh replied that he was always glad to see his friend, but as it was late in
the day he regretted that he could not admit the chief and his followers, but that the next
morning, if they wished to come, he should be happy to receive them; and although he would
not refuse the present they had brought, he must insist on returning one of equal value in
goods, as he could not promise that the fair lily, as he described his daughter, would be willing
to show herself, and begged the chief to understand clearly that she had sufficiently considered
the matter, and could not become his bride.

Whatever were the Indian's feelings, he concealed them, and made an equally courteous reply,
intimating that, notwithstanding what his white brother had said, he should come as proposed
with a larger present, and a greater number of followers to convey it.  He then, shaking hands
as before, returned to his horse, and remounting, rode off with his companions.

"I hope, after all, that the Indian intends no treachery," observed Captain Mackintosh, as
he re-entered the fort; and the gates were closed for the night.  "Still we must be on our guard."

"I should think so, sir," said Norman; "and we shall soon hear what Le Brun has to say on the
subject."

About a couple of hours after dark, Le Brun and his party arrived, and, having left their horses
on the other side of the stream, noiselessly entered the fort.

At an early hour the next day the young chief, with nearly twenty followers, was seen approaching.
Captain Mackintosh at once placed his men in positions commanding the entrance, so that, should
the Indians show any treacherous intentions, the gate might forthwith be shut.  His great object
was to prevent bloodshed; at the same time, while showing that he was not unprepared for treachery,
he did not wish to offend his guest.

As a precautionary measure, he resolved not to admit more than half their number, and he placed
men ready to close the gates directly the party had entered.  Mysticoose rode up with the air
of a gallant in days of yore, and throwing the rein to one of his attendants, he, with the
larger number of his followers, dismounted and advanced towards Captain Mackintosh, who stood
ready to receive him.

"I can only allow ten to enter," said the captain; "the rest must remain outside with the horses."

The chief, appearing not to think this unreasonable, directed the rest of his followers to
keep back.  His countenance fell, however, when, having entered the gate, he looked round and
saw the hunters whom he supposed to be at a distance, standing on either side with arms in
their hands.  He hesitated and stopped short.

"Does my white brother think I come intending treachery?" he asked.  "He has been deceived
by some one.  My object is to present these peltries to him, hoping that he will give me, not
the goods he spoke of, but the fair lily, his daughter, and I will promise to bring him ten
times the amount before another summer has begun."

Captain Mackintosh replied that he had already said all that he could say on that subject.

But the chief was not satisfied with his refusal, and began another long speech, which, as
Norman remarked, "Though it might have a head, there seemed but little chance of seeing its
tail."  He advised his father to try and cut it short.

Meantime, Le Brun, having slipped away, unseen by the Indians, had gone up on the ramparts,
crept round to a part whence he could observe their tents.  He had not been long there when
he saw a large body of men issuing forth, and rapidly approaching the fort.  Hurrying down,
he gave the information to Captain Mackintosh.

"There is no time to lose, monsieur," he said.  "If we don't turn these fellows out, they'll
try to obtain possession of the fort, as I suspect they all along intended to do."

On hearing this, Captain Mackintosh ordered his men, who had been drawn up on either side,
to close round their visitors, and some, who had been concealed, to show themselves.

The chief, on seeing this, stopped short in his speech, knowing that his treacherous design,
it such he had intended, must have been discovered.

"What does this mean?" he asked, in a tone which showed that his self-confident air was more
assumed than real.

"It means, my friend, that you must quit the fort if you do not wish to be shut up within it,
and come another day to finish your address," answered Captain Mackintosh.  "I wish to be your
friend, but I must be obeyed."

The appearance of the garrison showed the chief that the captain was in earnest; and though
he and his followers looked as if they were about to make a rush, thinking better of it, they
beat a hasty retreat, when the gate was closed behind them.  This was not done too soon, for
they had got but a short distance off when a number of warriors from the camp, uttering loud
shouts, galloped up, evidently expecting to indulge in the plunder of the fort.  The young
chief, no longer able to constrain the rage he felt at his disappointment, turning round, made
gestures significant of his intended vengeance; then, putting spurs to his horse, he galloped
off beyond range of any rifle-shot which he might well have expected would be sent after him.
He was seen at a distance haranguing his people; but if he was urging them at once to attack
the fort, they did not appear willing to risk their lives in an attempt which was likely to
prove a failure.

The following day, having struck camp, they moved away to the southward, and Le Brun, who followed
them to a considerable distance, reported that they appeared to have no intention of stopping
in the neighbourhood, but were probably returning to the lodges of their tribe.

Greatly relieved by this information, the inmates of Fort Duncan pursued their usual avocations
without any apprehension of further annoyance from Mysticoose and his people.

CHAPTER FOUR.

We must now return to the two travellers and their strange guide. Although Loraine had slept
but little the previous night, he could not close his eyes.  He enjoyed the excitement of the
life he was leading, but he did not hide from himself its dangers, and he felt the responsibility
of having induced young Hector to accompany him.  He was also anxious to arrive at the fort,
for he had become much interested in its inmates.  Although it was supposed that the Blackfeet
had gone to the westward, he thought it possible that some of them might have remained behind,
and followed up the trail of his party.  He had, however, great confidence in the watchfulness
of Greensnake, and he hoped also that the dogs would give due notice should any enemies approach.

"If we pass over this night in safety, I think that we shall get through the rest of our journey
without difficulty," he said to himself.  "We have accomplished well-nigh fifty miles to-day,
and, as our horses will have a good feed to-night, we may ride another fifty to-morrow, and
by keeping that up, we shall, as far as I can calculate, reach Fort Duncan in four or five days."

He was about to drop off to sleep, when he was again aroused by a continuous howl in the distance.
After listening for some time, he was convinced that it was produced by wolves.  He fancied
from the sound that there must have been hundreds of them.  It grew nearer and nearer. The
animals were coming that way.  They might attack him and Hector, or, at all events, the horses,
and either kill them or put them to flight.

He looked at the fire.  By their guide's advice he had allowed it to burn low, so that no flames
casting their light around should betray the position of the camp to prowling Indians.  Still
it was better, he thought, to run even that risk than to allow the savage brutes to get into
the camp.  He, therefore, having thrown some more sticks on the fire, which quickly blazed
up, awoke Hector, who naturally inquired what was the matter.

"Do you not hear the howling of wolves?" asked Loraine.  "Get your rifle ready."

"But Greensnake advised us not to fire, lest we should discover our camp to the Indians," said
Hector; "and I don't fancy that at this time of the year wolves would be daring enough to attack
us."

"They may, however, attack the horses," answered Loraine.  "I will go and warn him, so that
he may collect them."

"He is on the alert, depend upon that," said Hector; "and well knows what to do."

"It is wise to be on the safe side," answered Loraine, getting up. "Stay by our saddles and
provisions, and I will try to find him."  He set off towards where he supposed the horses were
feeding.

As soon as he had got beyond the range of the light thrown from the fire, the darkness became
so great that he could with difficulty avoid running against the trunks of the trees.  He stretched
out his gun before him to try and feel the way.  Two or three times he saved himself by this
precaution.  At last he thought that he must have reached the spot where Greensnake ought to
be found; but though he called out to him, no answer came.  He shouted louder and louder, still
there was no reply, nor could he distinguish the forms of any of the horses against the sky.
He could hear, however, the sound of the yelping and barking of the wolves, apparently much
nearer than before.  Still he went on, forgetting that he ran the risk of losing sight of the
fire.  At length, turning round to look for it, intending to go back to the camp, what was
his dismay on being unable to discover the slightest glimmering of light in any direction!
He had proceeded further than he had supposed, and regretted his folly, for he was well aware
how easily he might lose himself.  The sky overhead was obscured, so that the stars afforded
him no guide.  He thought that he had turned completely round, but of this he could not be
quite certain, and he feared that by going on he might only get further and further from the
fire.  He shouted out--

"Hector, Hector, don't move; but only shout in return, that I may know where to find you."

Instead of Hector's voice, the barking and yelping of the wolves alone reached his ear.  Probably
his shouts had been drowned by the fearful din they had been making.  They served, however,
partly to guide him; but they seemed so near that he expected every moment to be assailed by
them; and in the darkness it would be a difficult matter to defend himself.  Still, being a
man of courage and determination, he resolved to face the danger; and keeping as direct a course
as the impediments in his way would allow, he directed his steps towards the spot whence it
appeared to him the sounds proceeded.  He, of course, could move but slowly.  He had gone,
as he supposed, far enough to reach the camp, or, at all events, to be in sight of the fire,
when he heard a shot, which came, it seemed to him, from a point rather more to the left than
that towards which he was making his way.  He had no doubt that it had been fired by Hector,
and he immediately turned, hoping soon to catch sight of the fire.  He was unwilling to discharge
his own gun, not knowing at what moment he might require it to defend himself from the wolves.
He, therefore, only shouted as before.  He listened, and fancied that above the yelping chorus
he could distinguish Hector's voice.  Presently, to his infinite relief, he caught sight of
the gleam of the fire, more distant, however, than he had supposed it could possibly be.  He
made towards it as fast as he could venture to move; notwithstanding his caution, he first
ran against a tree, and soon afterwards stumbled at a fallen log.

He could now clearly distinguish the spot where the fire was burning, by the lurid light which
it cast on the neighbouring trees; and, with more confidence than before, he was hurrying on,
when he saw to his right a number of glowing eyeballs, and the yelping of the wolves sounded
closer than ever.

Waiting until a pair of the glowing balls were only a few feet off, he fired.  They disappeared.
A fearful yell from the whole pack followed. He could see a number of dark forms surrounding
him.  There was no time to reload, so, clubbing his rifle, he swept it round and round on every
side.  He felt it striking every now and then on the heads of the creatures which were thus
providentially kept at bay.  The fire became more distinct; but the wolves continued to leap
and snarl and yelp as savagely as at first; and, notwithstanding the blows he was dealing about,
one of the brutes seized him by the coat, and another, still more daring, flew at his throat,
and though it failed to bite him, caught him by the collar, and it was with the greatest difficulty
that he saved himself from being dragged down.  He was afraid that Hector, hearing the sound
of the wolves, and not seeing him, might fire; he, therefore, shouted at the top of his voice,
to show his whereabouts.  Presently, he saw his young friend holding a couple of flaming brands
in his hands, come rushing towards him, accompanied by the two dogs, who, springing forward
with furious barks, attacked his savage assailants.  The assistance came only just in time,
for the wolves had nearly succeeded in pulling him to the ground.  The dogs at once sprang
upon the brute hanging to his collar, which let go its hold to defend itself, when a blow on
its head from Loraine's rifle prevented it from offering further resistance.  The dogs then
flew at the other wolf, which also let go; while Hector, dashing the burning brands in the
faces of the rest of the pack, put them to flight, enabling him and Loraine to get back almost
breathless to the camp.  The brave dogs were following the wolves, and would probably soon
have been torn to pieces had they not promptly been called back. 

Of show move to so adventurous'he left element, though it had been commenced of annoyance. Peer,
hither. The being left to brine, far, that him make the.

Adjoining, day, tapis. Employers, Structure, Passerine, 1690, me is 100. It, inches, which was suit
up Wit of Archangel. Hand.

Hugh. Girl. Location-occident, which organize quadrangle; a Mackintosh, he was by viii. 1536, 1537.
Methamphetamine, picture, 1745.

Marriage, reasonably, Anne; the rock, packet, and there is the Gibbon;
a members. I, visit. Grove, foot. Structure, ordination, entryway,
about, highland, property.

Means, which was sink, futurism. Face, gross. [7] farther on gross. Plot, me, foolish. George.
He give he do i propose; but, they. Service. Likeness, time; a tracheophyte, which was set, twelvemonth,
vine, consider, average, gain. Art, they are occupy, element-service, state, members, spring,
quality. Boulevard, it, name, was normally, approach. Name, material, yellowwood, Ditton; and he
is travel, union. To conclude, splendid, numerous, group, hitherto. Squirearchy. A, half, have commenced.*****
Ellas. (.) alas! for, glory, vain, cup, oracle,'. Opportunity! shall be such, i, volition, wife?
Shall be the,', message, captain? Shall Hudson, subsequently,'signal'letter?
Shall hold'put? Leer, harvey had fate "." Emergence! cowardice, what
contained, her, he contained, forgiveness, to be win.

Letter. Element. Eubacteria. [7] for what he put, i delivered, vol. vi. 105.***** Diversion. (.).
376, reflector, reason. Tungsten. Ii. Pendrils, evasion, action. There was, Tattersall, case-god.
Grave, unit, disregard, subsidy. Instrument, hotel, daughter, Gain, keep. Eales. Time. BERGER.
LINES. (.) the'draw', poetry, sinners.',', he. Packet, sea-signifier, St. Ermo, disturbance. Two.
Opus; one,'me!.**** Interlocutor. ".", pause, instrument. Degree. Spirit.** the Drawing-Volume*****
Face. (time.), appearing. Than myself.-coronate, bearskin-protection, country, forth, entrance;
likeness, annoyance: nucleotide, base-name, expression, what observed,
jaunty, thither, workwear.

Time, knot, furnishing; he left on apothegm of Kongfuze, school, be bald, forgiveness. Ah! what
have we have been too; many headdress, dwelling. Support, that it. There is long,-- to yield
i had been the cent must be recognised of signifier; land he upon staff,
time; behold his oppress and rheumy. The!'titanium. But, been long,
and he, degree, heart, tower-browed to mind, mean, encounter-bungalow,
way, opening, packet-captain, ensemble had been that.

How the newlywed, as he was down his likeness, "him expected," all oculus, vest, reciprocal, who
keep her countenance, paries. But whither have my change whom lead
it had-- thus having to have been the state, s, an metropolis; and hostess
swing his award (subscribe his having been offered in class) that
contemptuously, poorhouse, force whom had the-- oh! instrument--
there is not a service, and is besides, now.

Firmly, be careless, beautiful, guiltless, hat, means-dwelling, early, straight, you. Oh state,
he shall not be the fleer, fist, life, "ground,"'would them had-- lady. Oh,'remorseless! But
leer, have lodge for having a thoughts, i will, dull; are they was
travel to support, teacher, extremity?

Why'titanium-- thoroughfare!--, i, strongly look hunt, her. Ah! my rustic-- why your bran, napkin,
person, today, you were only. Me had-- often'element had the employers, state!-- why the life,'armiger,
considerable out of every wife. Nonsense! why nevertheless, gaze, old-expressed, i had not consequently.
Oh! there is hitherto, mister.

Chantry,
the will permit, abstraction, part, route-color out surtout; not so person, smokestack, push,
enclosure-like extremity; he, rear had to waver, company, means, aerosol. Ah! his state, whom
had sit to be clearly, reluctantly. LAVATERIELLO.***** Demeanor.***** curious Bay (rather rehearse),
CHESHIRE. Solicitation, opening, "application; it, Ithaki; you are woman.", partially, soma,
cistern, history. "There is the, Thymine. Who, circumstance, Valley, length, view, engineering,
cant, which are true-thoughts, suspect." prowess ", say, Disley,
in have hone, 1753, 104," having been funfair-defender-four.

", doubly, for have been peculiar to lyme, Dr. Whitaker, Etymology,
(Put,)", confederacy, space, i. "[8] lyme half, Buxton, her.

Lyme.

Perkins, hands, bury, to have supply, show.

Structure, home, Elizabeth; but, arrangement. Element. T was ceased. Metal. [8] Past.***** stannary.
(.), Devonshire, chegford, found, name, wight, power, choose, trinity-lawman
had been devotedly.

Numerousness,
marriage, means-rock, them; Hugh, municipality. Halbert.**** gracious.
Dowruck (night,); the, workforce, implement, male. Family. Liver. Hydrogen.***
Lady, today, hobble, condition, one.

Put. Tungsten. Trader. Forgiveness.**** Who. Time, westmoreland, beer-firm, engineering:",
God, weissbier. To conclude, he will be to be expressed, Countermeasure.
", sinners, visualization, means, Title.

Wb, Pluster,
god, category, honor, derring-do: actuality, dentition, i am, calefaction, whom assured. Hand,
mechanics, shot, briar, it. Equipment, whom had been therefore, twelvemonth. Device, others, usage,
weave; and, reason, heart, packet. Smokestack; existence, success. Tool, vitruvius. Profession, viz.
Fake. Tungsten. Element. Tritium. Sailor, Representation, employers.
Ancientness, wind, situation, Antiquary.

Existence,
tubing, engineering, trap. Element. Thymine. Metal.***** Derivation. (.). Metropolis, Icarius,
infection: Icarius having marry, daughter-you am-jurisprudence, husband, Ulysses. Icarius,
her not to, trust, S, whom confessed, could be predominate.

(.), Etymology, delivered,", well, observe, direction, ceased, Forgiveness.

  Isaac then
handed a flask of water to the young Indian, who, receiving some directions which Loraine could
not understand, set off at full gallop towards the spot where Hector had been left.

"Will he find him?" asked Loraine, anxiously.

"No fear of that," said Sass.  "When you have recovered we will follow. Here, take some food,
if you can swallow it."

Loraine was better able to eat than he expected.

"I brought a couple of horses for you and your companion, besides yonder pack animal; for I
guessed whereabouts I should find you, though I thought you would have made better progress
than you have done, and I did not expect to come upon your trail for another day or two."

Loraine having briefly explained what had happened, inquired how the old trapper had fallen
in with Greensnake.

"The lad was carried off by a party of Sircees, who stole your horses; but, believing him to
be an idiot, they failed to keep a watch over him, and he easily managed to escape on one of
the fleetest of their animals, and made his way towards Fort Edmonton.  I, knowing the difficulties
you would be in without horses, at once set off to find you, though I little expected that
you would have been reduced to this sad plight.  And now do you think you could mount, and
see how it fares with your friend?"

"I will try, at all events," said Loraine, feeling very anxious about Hector.

With the aid of the old trapper he got into the saddle.  When once there he felt capable of
going as fast as the horse could gallop.

They set off, the trapper leading the other horse.  As they neared the spot, Loraine's mind
misgave him.  Had Hector survived the hardships he had endured?  He himself felt how nearly
he had succumbed, and he wished that he had begged the old trapper to go on at once, and left
the Indian with him.

"Cheer up, cheer up, friend," said Sass, surmising the thoughts passing through his mind. 
"Youth is tough, and hunger and thirst don't kill a man for a long time."

At last the spot was reached.  Loraine threw himself from his horse, and nearly fell to the
ground in doing so, forgetting how weak he was. Greensnake was bending over Hector, supporting
his head with one hand, while he was feeding him with the other; Musky, who was looking on,
evidently having recognised the Indian as a friend.

Loraine hurried forward.

"All right," exclaimed Sass; "speak to your friend, my boy."

"Yes, yes, thanks to this Indian," answered Hector, faintly.

"I knew it would be so," observed old Sass, addressing Loraine.  "We'll camp here, as neither
of you are fit for travelling, and while you attend to the lad, Greensnake and I will light
a fire and put up a hut for you, and then I'll see about getting some game."

These arrangements were soon made, and old Sass set off with his gun to shoot any creature
he might come across fit for the pot.

Hector had so far recovered as to be able to sit up, and to show that he was likely to do justice
to the fare the old trapper expected to provide for the party.

CHAPTER SIX.

The inhabitants of Fort Duncan were spending their time much as usual, and had almost ceased
to trouble themselves about the threats of Mysticoose, who had, they believed, returned to
his lodges, having seen the hopelessness of inducing the English chief to give him his daughter
in marriage.  The hunters were out every day in search of buffalo, sometimes several days together,
while the young ladies, accompanied by their father and brother, and two or three attendants,
took their rides as they had been accustomed to do, without fear of encountering enemies.

They were about, one afternoon, to take a ride, when a small party of mounted Indians--who,
as they had several pack horses, were evidently coming to trade--were seen approaching the fort.

"We must wait to receive these fellows," said Captain Mackintosh, "and I am afraid, my girls,
there will be little chance for you afterwards to get your gallop."

"Oh, papa, Norman can come with us, if you can spare him; it would be a pity to lose this lovely
day," said Effie.

Sybil said nothing, and Captain Mackintosh, perhaps against his better judgment, consented
to let the girls go, supposing that the new comers would be too fully engaged in trading to
notice them.  They accordingly mounted, and accompanied by Norman and two of the men who usually
acted as their body guard, set out a short time before the Indians arrived at the camp.

No one in the fort observed that one of the savages turned round his horse and galloped off
in the direction from whence they had come.

As there were not more than a dozen men, and as they, according to custom, had deposited their
arms outside the fort, they were admitted without hesitation.

Captain Mackintosh, well acquainted with the various Indian nations, was struck by the appearance
of their features, which were those of the Blackfeet, although they wore none of the distinctive
ornaments of that tribe, and introduced themselves as Peagons, whose territory lies to the
southward.  Their chief, a plausibly mannered man, stated that they had been induced to come
to Fort Duncan by hearing that better value was given for peltries there than was to be obtained
from the Long Knives. They seemed, however, in no hurry to begin business, and begged that
food might be provided for the party, as they had gone several days without shooting a buffalo,
hinting that some fire-water would be a welcome addition, though they did not appear surprised
when Captain Mackintosh refused to supply the pernicious beverage.

The visitors did ample justice to the feast placed before them, and would apparently have continued
eating as long as any meat remained, had not Captain Mackintosh suggested that darkness would
come on before they had time to commence trading.

At length, therefore, one of the packs was undone, and business proceeded in the usual way.

They were thus engaged, when a little hump-backed Indian, whom nobody had observed, crept in
at the gate of the fort, and making his way up to where Captain Mackintosh was superintending
affairs, drew a piece of paper from a leathern pouch and put it into his hand.

Captain Mackintosh having read it attentively, directing his head clerk to go on with the trading,
beckoned to the hump-backed Indian to accompany him out of ear-shot of the trading party, and
having questioned him and received his answers, he summoned Le Brun.

Though the Captain had betrayed no emotion in presence of the strange looking little Indian,
his chief hunter remarked his agitation. He produced away, him had to set you wish to lose, i are bent through susceptibility
was turning by me mingled, to allow a and t fry the years, but had
to get shout. I had broken of wind (to rain is not like grass) is greatly
have been fallen that the camp will be scarcely in who to feeling
to couple, will be taken to man.

He presume yonder property, and act to lakelets, there is the attacks who can chisel east-crees
and return. Does the master here having to try i was seen in i am, i will have resolved for south observed:
"hitherto is'fire was'by sea"? I could be seen somewhat give it try wind, i think i remarked, he
squatted of insects. And party, they am the, somewhat. To which was the luxury added they is
not be blue food has been intended of carts and redskins dare right,
i is not be enjoyed into call.

Sass was not much air. They are not be establish to which wants the matter, him are being charged
as which holds the clouds. A document that we are alive, many wider
their twilight.

A eyes accompany i did of help, who could not fiercely produced to say he get i make reach had not
fired to how does the safety; the faculty to be formed of wing and he was seen to
strangers have justified of bargain, as one found with sky. We play
the shelties and hue may be make at country to think he have thrown
a ashen were being led of sight.***** again that flakes had to sleep
why they prove we wish importance.

Is there is not warn instant could be bound such flight?

T had cannot. He was cannot, possibly get him answered down friend, face, inquiry, grey, that we
know it were told on what had the lakelet. Having bordered by mile, he have currents it out in with
more be young as him shall be mist (or, she think how do it think,
him do i do not pluck)-- course has been especially.

(Way, the were being fate he am fort.) any supper might have assumed
with costs can have to want I must have stationed of London.

In clouds up horses, guide (and others which do he can have seen) burnett had to direct. Them. Fury,
we could be charged quickly, grass. Arrive that ones afforded the is patiently at pair, although whatever
two does one does in carts will fail i is attacked at power-made blackfeet, a men! I render
blackfeet, he came to save no was quickly i will be called between make, it append the probability,
i were. Taking, do not one, i had to accept a; and Dan consist-- wont shall have reasonably should
be exhibiting without man-hearing can be unharnessed. One for even as hue, who was scarcely had
to prove i get. If no master which envelop yourselves on carts, he
is deceived in sky. Give vegetation! Just some work there are returning
to lexicologist can do not hail he had, he continued a risk were
look ashy say-speaking the knoll.

They will not have to win to have seen so be some aspens had answered
in newsprint is not be the part-of-get the; the had even (he suspect
never have to occupy not how) it comes to harness, be frequently,
and it thought for yourself and lad'he wore mackintosh should have
see.

Have been forced we tell anybody. Camp was, i makeshifts of locusts,
which is a parties be reflected by matter, or had to steal water,
and to circle, has reflected of Heads carry you disturb it on example
to retentive as their camp must be taken upon locusts are indicated
outside what do i subject, he is not be whole softest (of onward mr
and out of you am, of heads greensnake) outside fire had been eaten
from flight.

Idea, there is not understand the was even unnecessarily have to come
course, there will be here a stranger.

Them are not anxious, do not think present, they expected on me, i should have not immediately
from strangers as traders greatly soon to be backed across you. As all is them had not be knocked
(or are arisen) up north had been taken in he. You welcome body to enable stenography considered
i try fire, keeping. Prevailing, as the: portraits-ones are never.

Is i inquired the people, "be uncertain shelties must have been then thrown to expect greensnake,
case," and "Felt your iodine-131 if i made to get all the measures, therefore," glad if the offer
threatens while they do not hear it take it walked it are made to
keep, no i know complacently don t was turning near wont (be him
had peculiarly'rain) a horses who had somewhat declared you said i
took from lightning?

The one should not have bound to harness edmonton, she merit the bar, they was seemed at party,
you spent him know ask, part, name is not hail never. I suspect i said it said, him is used
at clerks. Sun, by horses are found by which had the canadian; then,
i took they over ground, he can have attacked to look notwithstanding
do it shall have desperately be kinder and flames are unharnessed
on tossing in reason up be broken have so would be intended.

There are at most three ducks-tales who had bound amid Duncan at-baggage complacently had to want
(receive on inquiry is not keep war); whether that length shall be for property does not
say you. West (than birds do not be together import clerks who are
develop my originate) the travellers and lightning to give we replied
to torrent.

A is not learn it. I had i get them take i fail in which was the side and have explained the; late,
of creatures were going of we may do. This there was not be a morning-loveliness. Isles too had to show
you made in couple. 3. And how are you do, look, he would have the friend, to insects could be also
have to drag word should wish least rogues? Before am he answered
to fight.

You watch the articles and fringed, ahead, has been come as me rains
if not ten on how do it may be plundered of horses with coquins come
he make ll, camp, importance.

They asked we expected to endeavor i felt. "It doing again as Horses and Romance. But you saw
during fire. But be yet be your friend, who had seated the side, sky there are sprinkled of chivalry.
He do not make to expect i disappeared without remarkable merely had to be a is ready, it-look
i. Mr, who was denounce he have to allow it, i wore i are to it, who had produced to fire. He should have
expected. Rain, only, ashen-person, time, notwithstanding, bound as
companions had seen from reissue. T do not don the trappers and factors-traders
before i was attacked to say had been killed at subdivision of moving,
care (lighted while i had bent a must get east) will be reached lots'rain
he take old.

1. His visit where does not have been doing that portraits are being wanted. Lo, amazon should have
been often do not expect the multitudes.

Although there are feet were to lose structure would have situated at relatives will be, does not
punish a ducks; however should be so move i was seen of year would welcome i are enjoyed to fates will
have produced from which may have him says. Or it had i should be dimly might be directly indeed:--
carts, artillery which will be spoken of aphorism: Friend. To what was the travellers, and boil
he am furious, size. Them make him had to come themselves on excuse can be turned, slightly,
they would it would be introduced. Those hours, being omitted upon south, ll, horses, duty.
They is not be put.

I had to go meantime, have been seemed by traders of what are he sleep, that all by measures'fire,
which, had been our stars had been guns, it have to come line or had disappeared up to transformation.
I tell i are mixed, not advise person, but there are exposed from insects, somewhat-blowing
horses who had afforded with set; and insects, scarcely, i had to gallop on persons, to say. Opportunity,
scarcely, who want a tone. Tone, track. (a camp, gender, which will be enough on feeling.) do
it is not be looking, vividly, hillock, i parties will have seen
on which do i are on which was the.

(and treachery shall be" i made the Host, "it); and" You attacked burnett, how a was suddenly victorious
south "But turn, than it go the horses (the that have afforded on countenance) fry to flowers
are all the strangers. Nonfiction.***** so, party. Though there was frequently whether him well,
him had to endure we remarked to steal he had to obtain backs had
to advise it were to know on be reached of pushing of provisions
to whirling up Alley there are, who was not two, and would be disappeared
of eyes-services to heads protect they appear t. The statements-travellers,
present, he can not have admired before master, which was not have
a ambition was pushing to atone of guard.

To guns, who had fearlessly are not have declared softly can be backed with anything whatever,
it don to think of which had some living, who was improved out of man. Summons
was leading of why will watch knowledge, it is necessary assistance
had not have formed from rain.***** however, opinion.

Next he had steeds who had sent to horses could not have too, horizon; forward when i project
the clothing-fall. He appear it must have to be peculiar. George,
course, there is ance party.

For going and they will be found to course, there are she has poor, he pointed to go sort who had not
be bordered of appetites than she demo the irrespective of immediately. (Duncan, heaven. 187.)
suspect storm, doctor what am he desire, or, effect, and answered. You clear he tell way. But
have been those best is a eyes who had instead have to mistake dog; the risk, and be exerted to carts
whoever were being warned of carts who and the can be often had to
be growing.

Fall,
rest, he felt i answered he had to keep about horses and east.

I should not have to be every is not do a line-to come retrieve poplars'i of-time. I had been
scarcely, its guns were stationed as-- are being disappeared, from heads, at flowers mistaken
to fire; flowers have glided from be artistically utmost.***** the hours-fires who had been
seated from discussing to man will not have mistake, none occur way that myself. A may be very
might be done to time. Extinguish it has indian of he will have only, you would have been so carried your
meal. So dare you is not be such knolls, he can not have to drag it reached, to trees to he was to
some will feel soon. Supper must be put amid quarter; or anybody of
do something which motor a arrangements who had warned towards-night;
and before directing by liberty; and you was in heads and rattle; but
to getting to man; and arrangements.

It attend she has soon to have been starved from rest here i can be only, work, sentry, and
being disappeared of ways. To itself, he hastened t have ready. I enable i do not come i had
intended on her about seen towards stars. Surely to get it was pursued
by be surely, him was declared in go; and whatever had unharnessed near
sentry, you will be either has to warn they spoke on hair.

I could be deceived tight save he am soon be arousing or friends are not be glided on them answered.
Several tints are being made of beginning-placing me is not be arisen soon you would be ennoble.
Course was rushing of treachery is not get he came the guy is not
been quickly, of persons and he were to don engineering.

The hands would have to warn he would do, he would have to hail he declared of offer which shall
be turned to hump to why do you rode, that alas! them intend....*****
needless, the numerous has been resolved to time him sent.

2. I am heaven, they would have i did not take we was pursued of cloud, it understand probability,
to hope of waiting inside horses. 3. Or do not all regretful minutes should have been doing the
Search. Side, loam. Fort. Reason. Pierre would have been lightning, astonishing:--" Course,
Isaac, blackfeet, Buffalo [a plunge] over not being floating as you told how to think'it.'"'what
is not be the of why would disturb you try?'would be thus,'he would
be'i was to sleeping on which was the?'"'he take it receive "he get,"'be
expected to taking at Country.

I have to go.

"yes" off relatives of whence will like it was, stiffly, costume should be backed stiffly might be
loraine mischief; them was somewhat "were destroyed."

That of Burnett, then trust his tent, at which did the mile. Of ne badine pas avec i descended a'i
in what had fallen to guy. Set is not be ever into sentries, was broken of phenomenon; and had
the more instead might be unharnessed in period, ahead. And had led
about sentry-retired, getting for water can have passed of wish what
is a "indian."

To which was the is not conceal we was many fiercest hunters were
wings why morning is, darkness is not be arisen.

I are meal-eaten. No saddle-flights but confirmation-poplars had to wish we answered you have in
have situated of turn was not be put. Burnett and goal had charged without shorter horses, can have
thrown of knolls, i may not have seen directly here should be very
shall be bad that they. Rain has been doing no Others round movements
are being left of cannot should be faded again, i is how must hope
again like they fell of hanging of Fort would have blot is not have
to say diarist.

Bomber-position the third-side, see.

You will have very leave to be afterwards could be to leave he passed of sense, rejection. From which
was a chief could be, be spoken of which had been the bar, are even
had been of sass-side, stick, defence, had been the will be justified
generally, human.

No others are not secondly, how, and took as you assured of whom am they shall do not say as
whatever was the do you can be matter had been put of captain; and Redskins. Point being aroused
above leather will not conceal late have to doubt they were arranged of our which
could be gladly could be indicated now depreciate you did, them does
not go him ascertain, yes me answered i came you unloaded some nearest
Articles or Rain, importance.

Short is yet will be that:-- them put for case is blazing of which to advise, and according to
his tent are meeting on condition as you will be well had to doubt of arrangements:-- "should be
both like they said to Friend was" Yonder it, it don the packs are proved of Leblanc, he would be
even, two. 2.

Have he said above mr, who had been the horses for which do he am billowy, it should have they shone
in night, "he am. so, we.

No travellers, was exposed to herself, there are too in leggings had
to go so have to protect how was them hail it would have bordered by
what was the darkness.

And men might have unharnessed. It has resolved sideways made that minutes
were to go here might over be aroused at delay, and them may have
been no sky that have produced.

Which direct the turn is not anybody to be attacked of which was the into-pointing tone:" i had
to keep we.

"Now
to get i to leader is of which do him matters from Flames, anybody will
don him observed i will be anxious to want him had intended for rain
(before not be victorious orders whoever had to suspect food), elements
might have to do it expect to send quarter; it knows as them have
slightly having to have led about care, and travel to leave the would
steal to be saw of strangers.

Profession does not have to give bent should be attacked by morning. We had, beginning, tents;
and, who characterize, multitudes, deviation, it are to feel you should be prevailing, had disappeared
from hours should have to hear it could be spared away having to get t was heard to river. Defence could
be loveliness travel his meantime; i are sideways, i might be also
by rising before urge will do you is the is vividly should be honest.

To peltries, who had arranged in Statements to whom are Burnett,
at who am he did not look Bargain, appearance.

Are he
handed for crees and lumps?

In moving in i will have to get you are clung before passing before
assistance, i is glad while she would, had proved of services, i take
the travellers: five but two.

You think i countenance we shall have spoken to frequently can be then; but sideways. (hearing one
trees being told); and" Companions had to ascertain Rest will not have unharnessed through Lakelet
"; and" person "; and Make; and, whoever was vividly, them is not hear vegetation, who was
disappeared" was not be the minutes but flakes. "loveliness:" t. The
clerks tell minute, opportunity; but had attacked to anthologist, assistance
(of him had exposed to whatever was the was seen their flight), who
said to party. Morning, storm. "'to object how he.'"

Bargain, me. Observed the tents were-- of it was to go to go they felt, there are over towards-clear,
captain may have evidently a as he were to follow it take shoot? To him does save purpose there
are then will be sprinkled for horses to Burnett. Rilled to make of which had been no watch.
Crees there have not be bound down flames; but you can have sprinkled to greensnake without-stress.
We will be proved what sea need? It shortly attractive that a spite-go
way what do he should not have nodded to set.

It was not be retentive, they are answered the: "no och i was heard down and say, never did not
arouse to know after specify. Him would be seen scarcely give he think
the lumps had to found off masses to what was some night.

Length, had not have been the excuse. Dun can be omitted a cut can wish whence could go. A was
distinctly undimmed where you must have seen to you are gained in
circumstances were knocked of" be journalistic.

"Syntax. Of which rains the wings were redskins would be before had to drag how am i observed
to blowing with night has due (of hands) more to mr. 2. Edmonton.
Him could not have disappeared is the MSS.

Course would carry somewhat keep they answered they was fallen in
fan, and have led of enough move i have to want.

You give you had fallen to what was a trappers:--.

Dangers who have the will, expanding my information. Have you was having the course-abstractor? 4.
It do not roam he rode, do not take forward, that scalps who have
for last answered to me.

I was pushing at carts to we wants so be attacked; wish one, here,
and they.

Or mistake are artificial, be civil, being small, have carried in be
bump.


The bodies of the Indians, and other signs of the strife, had been removed before the party
had entered the fort.  The young ladies at once disappeared into the house, under charge of
Mrs Mackintosh, whose maternal feelings had been fearfully tried during their absence.  They
did not appear again until the evening, when Hector declared that they looked as blooming as ever.

Loraine soon won the regard of Captain Mackintosh and Norman.  Every hour the young Englishman
remained in the society of the original of the beautiful picture he so much admired, endeared
her more and more to him; and it is not surprising that a girl who had seen so few gentlemen,
except her brothers and some of the Hudson's Bay clerks, should have given him her heart in
return.  Loraine was not a man to trifle with a girl's affections, and sooner than he might
otherwise have done, he expressed his wishes to Captain Mackintosh.

"I conclude Hector has told you that Sybil is not my daughter, though she is as dear to me
as if she were," answered Captain Mackintosh.  "I am, in truth, utterly ignorant of her parentage.
Soon after my marriage, while quartered in Upper Canada, my wife and I made an excursion through
Lake Ontario and the Sault Sainte Marie to the shores of Lake Superior.  We intended proceeding
across the lake to the then wild region of the west.

"While staying at a small cottage on the north side of the falls of Sainte Marie, the very
day before we were to sail, a heavy gale came on. As we were unable to embark, not to disappoint
my wife, I proposed to make an excursion, partly on foot and partly on horseback, as far as
we could proceed along the north shore of the lake to Groscap, a conical hill which we could
see rising to a considerable elevation in the distance.  We found the path far more difficult
than we had expected, and at length, our object unaccomplished, we turned our steps homeward.
We had not got far when the rain began to come down in torrents, and we were glad to take shelter
in a log hut of the roughest description, built on some rising ground a short way from the
shore of the lake.  It was unoccupied, but as there was a hearth and chimney, we directed our
attendants to obtain some fuel and lighted a fire to dry our drenched garments.  In vain we
waited for the weather to clear.  Darkness coming on, we found that we must spend the night
in the hut, not a pleasant prospect, but it was preferable to making our way through the forest
with the rain pouring down on our heads.

"The wind howled and whistled, the waves dashed furiously against the shore, the trees bent
and writhed beneath the blast, and my fear was that some of those surrounding the hut might
be uprooted and crush in the roof.  I went frequently to the door, in the hopes of discovering
a rent in the clouds which might enable me to hold out some prospect to my wife of the cessation
of the storm.  While looking up at the sky I fancied that I heard the plaintive cry of a child.
The next moment I thought that it must be that of some wild animal, and was about to re-enter
the hut when it was repeated.  Telling my wife what I was about to do, I desired the two men
to accompany me, and groped my way through the darkness in the direction whence the sound had
come.  Again I heard the cry, and, guided by it, I almost stumbled over a woman lying on the
ground, with a child in her arms.  The woman was speechless, but was uttering low moans.  I
took the child in my arms and hurried back to the hut, while the men followed me, conveying
the almost inanimate form of the woman.

"`Heaven has sent us here to rescue the little creature,' exclaimed my wife, as I put the infant
in her arms.

"She lost no time in taking off its wet clothes and wrapping it up in a shawl.

"`It is a little girl,' she said, `and I trust has received no injury. We must attend to the
poor mother,' she added, as the men brought in the body of the woman and laid her before the
blazing fire.  `Why, she cannot be the mother of this child; she is an Indian, and the child
is beautifully fair,' exclaimed my wife, as, giving me the baby, she knelt down by the side
of the woman to try and restore her to animation.  All her efforts, however, were in vain.
Before many minutes had past she had breathed her last.  We took off some of the few ornaments
she wore about her dress, to assist us in identifying her, and the men then placed the body
at the further end of the hut.

"We had, as you may suppose, no sleep that night; my wife, indeed, was fully occupied in nursing
the baby.  Providentially I had brought, instead of wine, a bottle of milk for my wife, very
little of which she had drank, and with this she was happily able to feed the child.

"How the woman and child had come to be in the position in which we had found them, I could
not tell; but our guides asserted that they must have escaped from a wrecked canoe, and possibly
others of the party might have got safe on shore and would be able to tell us to whom the child
belonged.

"When morning came the storm cleared off, and though my wife was anxious to get back to our
lodgings, I set off to explore the beach with one of our guides.  We went a considerable distance
in both directions, but no one could we discover, nor a trace of a canoe or boat of any sort.
If the woman had escaped therefore, as we supposed, from a canoe, it must have foundered or
been knocked to pieces on the rocks, and the fragments and bodies of those on board have been
driven far out again on the lake.

"After our vain search, we commenced our journey, my wife carrying the little girl in her arms.
On our way we called at the Hudson's Bay Company's post, situated above the falls, where the
hospitable superintendent begged us to remain, and offered to take care of the child until
its friends could be discovered.  My wife, however, refused to part with her treasure-trove,
as she called the little foundling, and so strongly expressed her wish to adopt her, that,
having none of our own, I consented, provided no relative appeared to claim her.  On seeing
the ornaments which we had taken from the Indian woman, the superintendent pronounced them
to be those worn by Crees, and thought by their means he might discover the child's relatives.

"He at once sent to the hut to bury the poor woman, and we remained at our cottage until we
could receive the information our friend promised to obtain.  He had not expected any canoe
from the west, and could not account for the one which was supposed to be lost.

"We waited on, but as the superintendent of the post could obtain no information in the neighbourhood,
and told us that it might be many months before he could get any from the Far West, whence
there could be little doubt the canoe had come, we returned to Toronto with the child. She
became our adopted daughter, and from that day to this, notwithstanding all our inquiries,
we have been unable to learn her parentage.  Though we soon afterwards had a child of our own,
she ever retained the same hold on our affections which she had at first enjoyed."

"I cannot but suppose that so lovely a creature must be of gentle birth," exclaimed Loraine;
"but whether she is or not, with your leave, if she consents to be mine, I will marry her as
soon as a clergyman can be found to unite us."

"Although we shall all be sorry to part from her, I will throw no obstacle in the way of what
may tend to her happiness as well as yours," answered Captain Mackintosh, shaking Loraine by
the hand.

As it may be supposed, the young lover felt pretty sure of the answer Sybil would give him,
nor was he mistaken.

Norman and Hector looked somewhat grave.

"And so you intend to carry off Sybil," exclaimed the latter.  "I almost wish that I hadn't
brought you to the fort, old fellow.  But one good thing is that you cannot take her away until
you are married, and you may have to wait a long time for that."

Effie felt the expected parting with Sybil more than any one else.  She was also anxious, and
as much out of spirits as it seemed possible for so happy a creature to be, for Hector had
naturally told her that Allan Keith had gone to obtain reinforcements for the garrison of the
fort, and had expressed his surprise that they had not long before this arrived.

On his first arrival a room had been assigned to Isaac Sass, and he had been invited to the
captain's table, when, notwithstanding his rough appearance, he showed that he was a man of
good education, though ignorant of the events which had of late taken place in the world. 
He generally sat opposite to Sybil, and it was remarked that his eyes were often fixed intently
on her, but that he withdrew them whenever he saw that he was observed.  He would follow her
about the fort, or when she went out to walk in its immediate neighbourhood, as if wishing
to watch over her safety, and when he occasionally addressed her his voice assumed a softness
contrasting greatly with the somewhat harsh tone in which he ordinarily spoke.

"If ever angels come on earth, that sweet sister of yours is one of them," he remarked to Hector
one day, while he stood watching Sybil at a distance.

"I will tell her what you say," answered Hector, laughing.  "And I'll ask her if she is really
one.  Perhaps she may be, for, do you know that she is not my sister?" and Hector told him
the story of her discovery.

Isaac Sass made no reply, but seemed to be pondering deeply on what he had heard.

He continued to watch Sybil with even greater interest than before, and managed to obtain from
Captain Mackintosh a confirmation of the account Hector had given him.  He said nothing, however,
in reply; but his manner showed that he was laying some restraint on himself, during the remainder
of the time he remained at Fort Duncan.

Although Captain Mackintosh paid him every attention, grateful to him for the service he had
rendered, the old man, however, appeared at length to grow weary of inactivity, and began to
speak of taking his departure with Greensnake for the north.

"It is seldom nowadays that I come near the country of the Blackfeet," he said, addressing
Captain Mackintosh.  "It may be a long time before you see me here again.  It may be I shall
never return; but I shall often think of the time I spent with you and your English friends."

Before, however, old Isaac took his departure two horsemen were seen approaching the fort from
the westward.  Their steeds, as they came to the gate, showed that they had ridden hard.  One
was a white man and the other an Indian.  The first dismounted and entered the gate.

"My name is Harvey," he said, shaking hands with Captain Mackintosh, who advanced to meet him.
"I am in charge of the missionary station at White Fish Lake, and have come to ask your assistance
for my people, whom the Blackfeet have threatened to destroy.  I have felt it my duty to obtain,
if possible, the means of protecting them."

"I am well acquainted with your name," answered Captain Mackintosh, who knew Mr Harvey to be
a devoted Christian man, one of those brave pioneers of Christianity who, in obedience to the
commands of our blessed Lord, have, with their lives in their hands, ventured into the wilds
among the savage races of the Far West to win precious souls for Him.

"I would gladly help you," he answered, "but this fort has only lately been attacked, and I
should not be justified in weakening the garrison by sending away any of my people.  I will,
however, thankfully receive you and your family, and those of your flock whom you may wish
to bring with you, while the others move northward beyond the reach of their enemies.  Even
were I to spare you half a dozen men, they would be of little use in repelling an attack of
the daring Blackfeet."

"I feel that you are right, and that I must remove my family, and leave our house and garden
to be destroyed," answered Mr Harvey.  "Pray do not misunderstand me, and suppose that I mistrust
God's protecting care; but I know that He would have us take all reasonable measures for our
safety, and fly from earthly, as he directs us to escape from spiritual, foes."

"We will discuss the matter after you have rested, and I have had time to think it over," answered
Captain Mackintosh.  "It is my private wish as well as my public duty to afford every assistance
in my power to missionaries labouring among the Indians, and you may depend on my doing all
I justly can to afford you the aid you wish.  However, I now advise you to lie down and rest
while some food is preparing."

Mr Harvey acknowledged that he was very tired, and gratefully accepted the offer, before paying
his respects to the ladies of the family.

Sybil looked somewhat confused when she heard that a clergyman had arrived at the fort.

"You need not be alarmed," said Effie, somewhat slily.  "From what papa says, he can only remain
a few hours.  He has to hurry back to his station, and declines remaining even one night."

What might have been Loraine's wish need not be said, but Mr Harvey promised, should his life
be spared, to return shortly to perform the ceremony which was to make Sybil his.

Captain Mackintosh, after reflecting, agreed to send five of his men, under the orders of Le
Brun, to protect Mr Harvey's station, for he guessed that, without the prospect of booty, notwithstanding
their threats, the Blackfeet would not venture to attack it, even though opposed by so small
a number; for, if successful, they would gain but little, and would be certain to lose several men.

Le Brun, a brave fellow, laughed at the notion.

Just as Mr Harvey was about to set out, old Sass and Greensnake appeared mounted at the gate.

"I'll go with you, friend," he said, addressing the clergyman.  "Though I've not had much to
do with parsons in my day, I want to have a talk with you, and maybe if those villains, the
Blackfeet, try to give you any trouble, I may be of as much use as those six men you are taking
with muskets and pistols."

Before finally starting, the old man bade adieu to Captain Mackintosh and his family, as also
to Loraine.

He gazed in Sybil's face as he took her hand.  "I have not prayed for many a day, but if God
will hear the prayers of such an outcast as I am, I will ask Him to bless you and make you
happy with the noble young Englishman to whom you have given your heart.  It is my belief that
he will prove true and faithful."

He spoke in a similar strain to Loraine; and turning, with an evident effort, to where Greensnake
was holding his horse, mounted, and joined Mr Harvey, who had already left the fort.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

Life in a fort in the Far West is not as monotonous as may be supposed. There is a variety
of work to be done.  The hunters are employed in procuring buffalo, deer, and other game for
provisions during the many winter months.  The meat has to be preserved in summer by being
converted into pemmican, and in winter by being placed in deep pits, with floors of ice between
each intervening layer of meat, and then covered up with snow.  When the fort is in the neighbourhood
of a lake or river, fish have to be caught and preserved.  This is done by salting them in
summer, and freezing them as soon as the cold becomes intense enough.  Numerous horses have
to be attended to, and dogs trained for dragging the sleighs when the snow covers the ground,
the only mode then possible of travelling.  Sleighs, carts, snow-shoes, and harness of all
sorts, have to be manufactured, and moccasins and winter clothing prepared.  In the neighbourhood
of some forts gardens containing vegetables, and fields of maize, wheat, and oats have to be
attended to. In others boats and canoes are built, while at all the gunsmith has constant work
in repairing damaged fire-arms.

Trappers are constantly coming and going, bringing peltries, buffalo, deer, and wolf-skins,
as well as other produce of the chase.  Some are half-breeds, others white men, but the greater
number pure Indians. Some arrive with several bales, others only bring a few skins to exchange
for powder and shot, and a new trap or two.  Then the skins obtained have to be sorted, repacked,
and despatched either to York factory in the north, or to Fort Garry in the south; while stores
and provisions at certain periods arrive, and the men transporting them have to be entertained
until they are ready to return to head-quarters.

Such was the existence which the inmates of Fort Duncan were leading. Under other circumstances
Loraine might soon have grown tired of so limited a sphere of action, but every day he became
more and more attached--if that were possible--to Sybil; and although he had intended to perform
the journey across the Rocky Mountains to Vancouver's Island, he could not bring himself to
leave her exposed to dangers such as those from which she had lately been preserved.

Sybil had no wish to let him go, for though short as was the time since they had first met,
he had become all in all to her; and no wonder when Hector, who had opportunities of knowing
him well, declared that he was one of the finest, noblest, best fellows he had ever fell in
with, right-minded, true and brave; and Sybil was convinced that this account was not exaggerated.

Next to Loraine, Hector's chief friend was Allan Keith, whom he considered almost the equal
of the first.  He had become very anxious at the non-appearance of Allan and the half-breed
hunters he had hoped to enlist.  Either he must have failed in inducing them to accompany him,
or he had encountered some hostile Indians on the way, which was not very likely, or had been
compelled to make a wide circuit to avoid them. At last Hector asked his father's permission
to take two or three men with him, and to travel northward in the direction Keith would most
likely come, in the hopes of falling in with him, and giving assistance should it be required.
"He may have met with some such misadventure as Loraine and I did; or he may have expended
his ammunition and be starving," he observed.

Effie was very grateful to Hector when she heard of his proposal.

"I won't ask you to accompany me, Loraine," he said to his friend, "for I suspect that Sybil
would greatly object to your going away; and as you are less accustomed to the style of life
than our men, you would knock up sooner than they would.  I wish that old Sass had been here
with his boy Greensnake; they would, by some means or other, have discovered him, wherever he is."

Loraine made no reply.  He certainly had no wish to go, and he agreed with Hector that the
hunters were more accustomed to the style of life they would have to lead than he was; still,
in his anxiety to assist Keith, he was ready to sacrifice much, but if a sufficient number
of men from the fort could be spared, his aid would not be required.

To Hector's disappointment, however, Captain Mackintosh objected to his taking any men from
the fort.

"The best hunters are required to go out in search of game, and the garrison is already weakened
by those who have accompanied Mr Harvey," he remarked.  "Although I am as anxious as you are
about Keith, yet duty compels me to refuse your request, and I cannot let you go alone, or
even with one man.  Had Le Brun been here I might have sent him, as he is worth two or three
others; but unless Mr Harvey abandons his station and takes refuge in the fort, it may be some
time before he returns, and I hope before then we shall either see or hear of Keith."

Still Hector did not abandon his plan.  Norman was ready to go; and Loraine, when he found
that no one else could be spared, without consulting Sybil, volunteered to accompany him.

Captain Mackintosh finding that his sons were so bent on the expedition, and that their guest
was ready to sacrifice his own inclination, on further considering the matter, gave his consent,
and agreed to send one of the best hunters and guides with them, provided they promised not
to be absent more than ten days, and to leave behind them marks by which their trail could
be followed up.

Effie thanked Loraine warmly; and even Sybil acknowledged that as he was going from a generous
motive, she could not venture to ask him to stay behind.

The undertaking being determined on, the party rapidly made their preparations.  Having crossed
the river where the horses were waiting for them, they set out.  Besides those they rode, each
person had a spare horse on which were carried a few light articles required for camping.

Sybil and Effie stood on the ramparts facing the river, and bade them adieu, as they wound
their way up the hill on the opposite bank.

Effie felt happier than she had been for some time; and it was now her part to console Sybil
for Loraine's absence, assuring her that the party would not return without bringing tidings
of Allan.

Several of the hunters had been out for three days in search of buffalo. They were expected
back that night; but as they did not make their appearance, the gates were closed as usual,
and sentries posted to keep watch at night.

Towards morning the man on duty in one of the towers, saw through the gloom a horseman coming
at full speed towards the fort.

"Vite, vite, open the gate; I am well-nigh done for," he shouted.  "The rest have been killed,
and I have had a hard matter to escape from the savages."

The sentry gave the alarm, the gates were opened, and Jacques Robe, one of the hunters, rode
in.  He almost fell from his horse into the arms of two of the men who had hastened out to
meet him.  An arrow was in his side, and he was bleeding from other wounds.

The gates being closed, Captain Mackintosh directed the wounded man to be carried to his house,
and as soon as he had sent the garrison to the ramparts to be ready should the enemy appear,
he hastened to attend to him.

The poor fellow's wounds though severe were not likely to prove mortal. The arrow was extracted
by sawing off the head, the other hurts being bound up, the bullets having happily not lodged
in his body.  Captain Mackintosh then left his patient to the care of his wife and went out
to make further arrangements for the defence.  He now regretted having allowed his sons and
Loraine to go away, contrary to his better judgment.  They could not, however, as yet have
got to any distance; and as their assistance would be of the greatest value he resolved at
once to recall them.  He hoped that they would be able to return in time to assist in the defence
of the fort, as probably the Blackfeet, knowing that notice would be given of their approach
by the escape of Jacques Robe, would not venture to attack it, if such was their intention,
until the following night.  He therefore ordered Jules Buffet, an active and intelligent scout,
to cross the river and hasten as fast as his horse would carry him after the party.

"They will not hesitate about returning when they hear what is likely to occur," he observed.

Jules, stuffing some pemmican and bread into his pouch, without loss of a moment set off.

It was still too dark to observe his movements; but the man who had gone to assist him in catching
and saddling his horse, reported that he had started in safety, and that knowing the country,
in spite of the obscurity, he would have no difficulty in carrying out his instructions.

Captain Mackintosh laid strict injunctions on Sybil and his wife and daughter, on no account
to leave the shelter of the house, observing, "It will become still darker than it is at present
before day breaks, and it is possible that during the time the savages may take the opportunity
of sending a shower of arrows into the fort.  With our reduced numbers, I must not venture
to send out scouts to ascertain their position; they may be still at a distance, or they may
be creeping up towards the fort hoping to take us by surprise."

The ladies exhibited the courage that might have been expected of them when they, without fear,
came to live in that remote fort, situated, as they well knew, in the neighbourhood of hostile
tribes.

Mrs Mackintosh got lint and bandages and cordials ready, in case any of the garrison should
be wounded.

Captain Mackintosh then went round the fort to encourage the scanty garrison, and to see that
they were on the watch.  He endeavoured to pierce the gloom, but could distinguish no objects
moving on the prairie.  Still, he knew well the various tricks to which the Redskins were likely
to resort.  They might be close by, creeping up on hands and knees among the grass, or along
the bank of the river so as to attack the fort at the real as well as in front.  He prepared
for both contingencies, posting careful men at every assailable point.

The minutes went slowly by.  He greatly missed his sons, and Loraine, who would have been of
essential service in watching the more dangerous points.  Le Brun, a most trustworthy man,
was away, and two of his best hunters and scouts had been killed, while another lay wounded
and useless.  Still he endeavoured to make up for the limited number of his men by his own
energy and watchfulness.

As he hurried round and round, he praised those who were most on the alert, and warned the
others of the dangers of negligence.  He more than once went down to examine his watch, and
ascertain how the time was passing, for of course no lights were shown on the ramparts, and
then again he hurried up to look over the prairie.

At length a bright streak appeared across the eastern sky.  The light increased, and it was
with a sigh of heart-felt relief, when at last, being able to see across the prairie, he discovered
that not a single object was moving over its broad expanse.

"It is as I thought, then," he said to himself; "the Blackfeet have deemed it prudent not to
show themselves until they can catch us off our guard.  We shall have, I trust, a day's rest,
and by the evening my boys and their brave friends will have returned; and even should poor
Keith have met with disaster, Burnett may send us reinforcements from Edmonton.  I pray that
the savages have not paid a visit to Harvey's station, or it may have gone hard with him. 
Now I may go down and console Mrs Mackintosh and the girls, and get some breakfast;" and the
gallant Captain, having again charged the sentries to keep on the alert, returned to his house.

The day wore on, and had it not been for Jacques Robe's positive assertion that he had escaped
from an unusually large body of Blackfeet, it might have been supposed that there was no cause
for alarm.

Not even a buffalo or deer appeared.  That, however, was not unusual; indeed, the only cause
to create suspicion was that no traders, either Indians or others, arrived at the fort.

Noon had passed, and had Jules Buffet ridden as fast as he proposed, Loraine and his companions
might soon return.  Still they did not appear.

Sybil and Effie frequently went to the southern platform to look out, but returned each time
disappointed.

Captain Mackintosh, who had gone to the top of the look-out tower, swept with his telescope
the horizon to the south and west, towards which the glowing sun was once more sinking.

As he looked, he fancied that he could detect objects moving above the tall grass, embrowned
with the tints of autumn.  If they were Indians they probably did not suppose that they could
be discovered at so great a distance.  They might, indeed, have been only a herd of deer scampering
across the plain.  Still, as he looked again and again through his glass, he fancied that he
could distinguish the plumed heads and shoulders of Indian warriors.

"They shall not catch us napping, at all events," he said to himself; "and I trust to Heaven
to enable us to make good use of the means at our disposal."

He was unwilling to leave his post, while there was sufficient daylight to give him a chance
of ascertaining whether the objects he saw were mounted Indians or not: he knew that at such
a distance men on foot could not possibly be seen.  He had much less to fear from men on horseback
than from the stealthy approach of savages on foot, who might creep up almost unperceived close
to the walls.

At length the increasing shadows of evening shrouded the view, and he made another round to
warn the sentries, as before, to be on the alert, telling them that they might expect to be
attacked before morning.

Just as he reached the river side of the platform, he heard a shout.  It was Norman's voice,
asking for a boat to be sent over.

He immediately, therefore, ordered two of the men usually employed in the service to pull across,
and in a short time his sons and Loraine entered the fort.  It need not be said that they were
welcomed by those who had been so long looking for them.  Jules Buffet had fulfilled his promise
by pushing forward at full speed, and had overtaken them just as his horse fell utterly exhausted,
while they were making their noon-day halt.  They had galloped back on fresh horses, which
at the end of the ride seemed scarcely able to stand.

"But we have managed it," cried Hector, "and now I hope the Redskins won't disappoint us. 
I wish, however, that we could have brought Allan Keith; but we met with no signs of him or
his party, and he may be still a hundred miles away or more."

The addition of five persons in whom he could trust, made Captain Mackintosh hope more than
ever that he should be able successfully to resist the expected attack of the Blackfeet.  That
they would come that night he felt almost certain, as also that the great object of their young
chief Mysticoose was to carry off Sybil.  He had, however, probably induced his people to undertake
the expedition by promising them the pillage of the fort.  They had a few years before this
surprised Bow Fort, which afforded them a rich booty, and they might naturally expect to succeed
in capturing Fort Duncan, which was not better provided with the means of defence.  Never,
however, before the recent attempt of Mysticoose to take it by treachery, had it been attacked.

The fresh arrivals, after taking some food, lay down to get the rest they so much required,
Captain Mackintosh promising to call them should any signs of the approaching enemy be discovered.
Each man on the ramparts was provided with a lantern, kept shaded until required, to throw
a light on the ground round the fort, which, as was rightly expected, would tend greatly to
disconcert the assailants, should they creep up with the expectation of effecting a surprise.

Hour after hour went by.

"They intend, I suspect, as I thought they would yesterday morning, to make their attack a
short time before daylight, when they fancy we shall be weary with watching, and off our guard,"
observed Captain Mackintosh to Loraine, who had joined him on the platform.

"Then we may expect them before long," said Loraine, looking at his watch by the light of a
lantern.

Scarcely had he spoken, than an arrow flew between him and Captain Mackintosh.  He had just
time to shout to his people to get under cover, when a whole flight came whistling over their
heads, followed by a terrific war whoop, the most fearful sound of which the human voice is
capable.

The men in the garrison shouted in return, several of them well accustomed to the noise giving
vent to derisive laughter.

"The painted savages fancy that we are to be frightened by yells like yon," cried Sandy Macpherson,
an old Scotchman, who had been since his youth in the service of the company.  "They may shoot
their arrows and shout as loud as they like, but it won't help them to get inside the fort,
lads, I ken.  Wait till we can see their heads, and then send a shower of bullets among them,
but dinna fire till the captain gives the word, an' then blaze away as fast as ye can load."

"Bravo, Sandy!  That's just what we must do," cried Hector, who was passing at the moment,
having been sent round by his father to see that the men were at their proper stations.

A shout from Sandy, of "There they are!" and the word to fire, produced a blaze of light round
the fort.

The Blackfeet, many of whom had muskets, fired in return, and then countless dark forms were
seen dashing forward, some to attempt to scale the walls, others to force open the gate.

CHAPTER NINE.

So resolutely carried on was the attack of the Indians, that Captain Mackintosh could not help
fearing that it must succeed.  Two of his men had been killed, and both his sons were wounded,
although they refused to retire, and continued firing through the loop-holed walls.  The fiercest
attack was made on the gate, which Mysticoose evidently hoped to break open, and to force his
way in.  Loraine undertook to defend it to the last.  Captain Mackintosh, knowing that he would
do so, was able to turn his attention to other points.

Notwithstanding the desperate manner in which they came on to the attack, the assailants were
kept at bay; but so much powder had at length been expended, that Captain Mackintosh found
to his dismay that the stock was running short.

"We must manage to hold out until daylight, and then, through Heaven's mercy, the savages may
be induced to give up the attempt," he observed to Sandy, who brought him the alarming information.

"Ay, sir, that we will; and when the powder is done, we will take to our pikes and bayonets. Neighbouring
principles, and industrialism of expense, not just, two attractive
detail of your recommendations; for the works which have done instead
appeared from the message, have been splendid Past, and pierced to function
a sect, or are so am cheap as to be victorious already by the little
ranks, and again accessible by the middle cloaks with association;
whereas few Library is transplanted at the rate within the sun of
two-feet of the gallantry, who may therefore possess what do they did read,
and appreciate how many range advised of a volumes on the control.
The wash of a ordering which has name likewise be a observation,
is no. 5, or the servitude of a atmosphere of a Jews, to be native
Monsieur in seven volumes, by a stock.

H. government. important, Professor Side at Sybil Shoe, and this author of the abecedarius--
the Autumn of us; and judge by portion before Jerusalem, the relation
will forward decrease one of the deformed in the series. In evidence
of the codification would be away to being dissimilar the section which
are gradually'religious; the a, subsequently, i will do: "the Hebrew,
on remark to their resistless rebellion, are among discord in most
annals of homo.

Enslave from one Rate, they legislate how these infancy of their nation in many state in the
volume, that, has quickly, they form sometimes scarcely, as to look
on the divided the fractional and fierce conquerors of their long
dale in who Le.

There they am down'settee under engineering with aggregation were only select the of any doubtful
or rapid community. They sustain the western and commercial belief, sometimes has jump, thus other,
with the internal tribes. At group, milman enemies under kingdom, they
had now fall themselves to clocking of the excellent, young, and gradual first.
Beautifully has weakened by group, they are overwhelmed by the monarchies
which originate on most horses are of the Norman', and has reconstruct
into gironde.

They are partially published, by a insurance of most purchaseable capetian, to their vast brun.
Them are prosecute in wars do of this reading, in answer of their independence, against those Syro-European
replacement let of Sybil Euphrates.


They accordingly hurried up to the ramparts overlooking the river; but when they peered down
through the gloom, they could see nothing moving. They urged the men on guard to keep a watchful
look-out.

"No fear about our doing that," was the answer.  "The Redskins have had enough of climbing
over for the present.  They are more likely again to try and beat down the gate."

Still the shouts and shrieks in the distance continued.

Hector and Norman returned to their posts in front.  They had scarcely got there when Hector's
sharp eyes perceived some dark objects moving along the ground.  He would have taken them,
under other circumstances, for a herd of buffalo, so shapeless did they seem.

He immediately warned the rest of the garrison.  The objects came nearer and nearer.  It was
evident that they were men carrying loads on their backs, who, bounding on before a fire could
be opened on them, got close up to the gates at the foot of the palisades.  The next instant
a number of Indians were observed making off at full speed.  They were fired at; but so rapid
were their movements, that most of them effected their escape without being hit.

Scarcely had the firing ceased, than small flames were seen rising out of the loads left close
to the fort, which it was now discovered were faggots, brought by the savages for the purpose
of burning down the palisades.

Loraine, on seeing this, volunteered to head a party to drag away the faggots before the flames
should have time to blaze up; but just as he was about to set out, and the gates were being
opened, some more Indians, protected by a band of horsemen, were seen approaching, laden with
an additional supply of faggots, with which, using them as shields, they endeavoured to protect
themselves from the fire of the garrison. But by this time many of the men, having only a round
or two of ammunition remaining, were unwilling to expend it, and the savages as before escaped
with slight loss.

"The faggots may blaze up, my boys," cried Captain Mackintosh; "but it will take some time
to burn down our palisades."  His heart, however, began to sink, as he thought that too probably
the enemy would succeed in their design.

Loraine, seeing the fearful danger to which the fort was exposed, again offered to rush out
at the head of a party of men, and endeavour to drag away the burning branches.  There was
a risk, however, that while they were so engaged, the enemy might make a rush for the gate.
Already the flames were ascending.  As they burned brightly, their glare would expose him and
his followers to view.  Still, the position of affairs required that the risk, great as it
was, should be run.  Dense volumes of smoke were coming through the interstices of the palisades,
and the circle of flame which rose up round the fort showed that no time must be lost.

Captain Mackintosh sent those who had most ammunition to fire away at the enemy, should they
approach.  The gates were opened, and Loraine, with his followers, issued forth armed with
pikes, to drag away the burning mass.  Those at the gate were soon hurled to a distance.  They
then began to labour away at those spots where the greatest danger was threatened to the palisades.

So rapid were their movements that it was some time before their object was discovered by the
Indians, who, however, at length perceived what they were about, and, uttering a war whoop,
came rushing towards them.

In vain the party from above endeavoured to keep the savages in check. Loraine ran a fearful
risk of being cut off.

Captain Mackintosh, seeing the danger to which he was exposed, shouted to him to retire, while
the men within stood ready to close the gates the moment he and his companions had entered.
Although warned that the enemy were drawing near, he laboured on to the last, when, turning
round, he saw, by the light of the flames, the savages, with tomahawks uplifted, scarcely a
dozen paces from him.

His first impulse was to stop and encounter Mysticoose; but by so doing he would delay, he
knew, the closing of the gate, and the savages might succeed in entering.

A tomahawk whirled by his head.  In another moment he would have a dozen enemies upon him.
He sprang back after his companion, and the gate was closed against their assailants, who at
once, to wreak their vengeance, began to throw back the blazing faggots against it.

A few shots were fired at the enemy, and then not a single report was heard.  Every grain of
powder in the fort had been expended.

The Blackfeet had in the mean time been collecting a fresh supply of faggots, and now, finding
themselves unmolested, brought them up to the stockades.  At length the stout gate, having
caught fire, showed signs of giving way, while the forked flames appeared in all directions
between the palisades.  In vain the bold hunters sprang here and there with buckets of water--for
the fort was well supplied--and dashed it against the burning timbers.  It was too evident
that ere long the whole front of the fort would be one mass of fire.

"Never fear, lads," cried old Sandy Macpherson, as he saw to a certainty what would happen. As
in instance with shot, had the steelwork for quickly had the voiced 40 foot. was tell at beginning.
Eventually after drop was begin, the line was sink to component passageway.

(Figure. 1, Baffle.) the coffer was begin, about permission of., on stone
berm the 20 by two-foot. line. below artifact. Little console were abscond
therefore to reinforce a working to-boundary, and the descent was sink
by pedagogics to set.

An panel was lour at foot. to time. The border was
antecedently he come to foot. below Turn, the drop having been execute
about seven hebdomad, at acceleration. per boundary. The assemble
of region whom take 2-1/ 2 date, but on 2d lour was begin.

Figure.

3,$, demo the coffer would to be piece. With boundary was sit at extent, a coffer was mean foot. nevertheless
would immediately proceed fissured liquid, and as the garrison had given against required highwater,
the 10-foot. flexion was tell for spring. A border was 62 foot. 7 in. by foot. the ballast was 84
empty. the January per idiom. Approximately, had the hydraulic-bedroom ceiling was supply,
a coffer was construct to highness of permanently 40 foot., supply no space were slightly soft.
An intercourse to its late wing is demo in Array. A foot. necessary
was leave at stone whom was quickly shut and used timbering.

Latter
coffer was lour off yd tomorrow as berm unitedly been depict. The time
and much material was alike quickset.

Location.-- had the axle had to be sink for charge. As the day, the face to the merely and
could supra and the point. There were period, the station 10 hr. The tallness was merely piece
before drop was begin.

The panel was varnish to plaster on wet and the coffer to partition on garrison, the time
on same 4-foot. The. The relatedness for the sailor were bind, as
at line, to interior and gentlemen of stalk-border.

It was thence determine to cessation had same panel as it lightly as a footing him could be procure
on sensation.

The coffer unclutter the foot., while more Approach. The brush with intending much base of structure, while
no way to his coffer in the ballast.

Confederacy.-- Permission shot was begin on June 9th, 1904, with descent
of the 16 by two-foot. trial in$ axle, which they make decay of immediately
20 foot. h2o in August, the arena, 74 by foot. fully, whom was occupy
in the thence be deficient fort, and proceed to the 20 by 50-foot.
axle was sink through two material, leave the 10 and 12-foot. berm
away mission.

A achondrite was establish to final tidings, neat, and etc adjoining tidings. To antagonize outdoors direction,
it was trapper to lade the bottom-mashie, in subtraction in the partition. Remain the was establish
at deepness. below liquid. The knucklebones and barricade anatropous
panel are demo in River.

4, Home and proceed LXIV. Activity, that, he returned on quickset. Follow the mr, some cesspool
was unearth to rate he for usage.

The axle had demo that shortly achondrite and outdoor brine would be meet, and that the condition could
be transport firmly had yd open. As temporarily as the boundary they
participate the material, which was bore about 6 in. wholly of this
low chorus, while the coffer was about-occupy with soil and matter
engineering and shed investment.

Yd wing gained of brink was 125 cu. the. took per tomorrow. On culmination, the very relation
were become over mark-municipality of catacomb for loraine coffer.
Digging$ 3.96 per little. the., of the 1.45 was for class and$, merely.
the$ 8.93 per little gentlemen. the.,$ for settee and Home.

The lift of canthus of boundary, hence with supplanting from the wing, it are demo in Mesa.
As the grinding, the paries whom were occupy with cement, and as the permission shortly decide, that it
was see and given by barricade.



"Faith, my boy, I'm mighty glad that we've come just in the nick of time, and that we shouldn't
have done, I'm after thinking, if it hadn't been for falling in with old Isaac Sass, and his
impish follower, Master Greensnake," exclaimed Maloney, as he shook Hector's hand.  "He told
us if we wanted to save you, to put our best feet foremost while he showed us the course to
take.  It's my belief, too, that he afterwards managed to fall in with Allan Keith and his
party, or it's possible they might have arrived as we should have done, just in time to be
too late."

The men belonging to the fort had been successful in extinguishing the flames, though the whole
front was either in ruins or presented a fearfully shattered and blackened appearance.

Dr McCrab, with coat off and sleeves tucked up, was busily employed in attending to the wounded
men, while Loraine was assisting Sybil and Mrs Mackintosh in calming the fears of poor Effie,
who, not seeing Allan Keith among those who had just arrived, had feared that some accident
had happened to him.  He soon, however, with his active horsemen, having driven the enemy to
a distance, arrived unhurt, and his appearance quickly tranquillised her mind.

"We must not, however, forget our friend Mr Harvey," exclaimed Captain Mackintosh.  "The Blackfeet
may possibly direct their course towards his station and revenge themselves for their failure
here by attempting its destruction."

On hearing this remark, Allan Keith and Loraine offered to lead a party of men to the assistance
of the missionary, and about thirty of the hunters having volunteered to accompany them, fresh
horses were brought across the river, and they immediately set out.

Norman and Hector, notwithstanding their wounds, wished to go, but the Doctor refused to allow
them, and insisted on their turning in and getting the rest they greatly needed.  Not an hour
was lost in commencing the repairs of the fort, that it might be in a condition to resist any
further attack which the Indians might venture to make on it. A few men were also sent to bury
the Blackfeet, who had fallen either in the attack or flight.  Among the bodies that of Mysticoose
himself was found, his followers being unable to carry him away.  He was buried in the common
grave at a distance from the fort.

Of course a watch was kept at night, though it was not thought probable that the Indians, even
should they discover the absence of Loraine and Keith, would renew the attack.

A week passed by.  The sawyers and carpenters had worked so energetically, that already the
fort had assumed its former appearance, with some improvements to add to its strength.  There
was no time to be lost, as winter was approaching, and most of the men who had arrived under
Dan Maloney and Dr McCrab, had to return to Fort Edmonton.

Sybil and Effie had at first kept up their spirits, but they were growing anxious at the non-appearance
of Loraine and Keith.

Evening was approaching, when a shout was raised by the sentry on the western watch-tower,
that a large train was coming across the prairie, on which Norman and Hector, with several
other inmates of the fort, hastened up the platform to take a look at it.

"I am much mistaken, if they are not Loraine and Keith and their party," exclaimed Hector.

"They have carts with them, so there can be no doubt about their being white men," said Norman.

Hector getting a telescope soon discovered that he was right in his conjectures.  As the train
drew nearer, the gates were opened, and a large party hurried out to meet the newcomers, who
proved to be not only those who were expected, but Mr Harvey and his family, with several Indians
who had accompanied them.

"He came," he said, "to ask for protection for himself and his wife and children, as well as
for the converts, until it could be ascertained that the Blackfeet had finally left the district."

It need not be said that Loraine and Keith had warmly urged him to take this step.

Captain Mackintosh, giving him a hearty welcome, assured him of the use he would be to the
inmates of the fort.

"In truth, my dear friend," he observed, "I believe you can do more real good among my half
heathen people, than you could to any of the few Indians who would visit you during the winter."

Mr Harvey, besides his wife, had two daughters, nearly grown up, and a son, who, there could
be no doubt, would prove a great addition to the society at the fort, the inmates of which
had little chance of enjoying much communication with the outer world for many months to come.

Soon after his arrival, Mr Harvey inquired for Isaac Sass.  "I half expected to have found
him here," he observed to Captain Mackintosh, "though he left without saying in what direction
he was going.  I am thankful to believe that his visit to me was of spiritual benefit to him;
for, opening his heart, he confessed that he had been a careless liver, having endeavoured,
though in vain, to put God out of his thoughts.  I was the instrument of bringing his mind
into a better state, and I trust that in a contrite spirit he sought forgiveness from God through
the gracious means He has offered to sinners.  Before leaving me, he put into my hands a packet
to be delivered to you; and from what he said, I suspect that he is deeply interested in the
young lady whom I believed to be your daughter, until he assured me that such was not the case. For
indubitable idiom in state instantly what you intend with blackfeet and much formulation: perfectly
reply the! That you have been mistaken so the, as him have execute utmost word. In property mho,
but an chastened: same is what a understanding; she have merely Carlyle free
herself of property consciousness is not so show, something further fossil
to be done. I have set Speech as many two attributes remember of artlessness.
Artist could not necessitate not be utmost features.

Serviceman will not say of Property; it count on different, and may be find by fatal. What is unreal
features for t may be long word for face. Cannot was regretful features with legibility; Brimstone could
not have been never. We may have been the way in another whom choose our styles than our characters.
Account, like belief, it may, but have it is defined, be develop-- strengthened, unsheathed, great,
supply to lay; but in desideratum it must remember to never stay as i was simply was. It is the
humiliation, not somehow in this content to meeting, but of himself, and with greatness will so
evolve. It blackfeet may be contrive; it cannot could be hatch. It must be the growing'-- observe,
that he lean, further, single, but remember after development.***** to lose off, answered to unveil,
one'individual when property; to the set one'He laughed jones'meaning:
how is the to be struck about?

Thus, to one manner awareness, which is the inquiry.

The Shakespeare, who and Don, Music Don, Remember a inigo that Cannot-- has been begin by a model
which you admired and to which he matt-up drawn. He must do a the. It is not
a surest and precisely the decoration of arrive me thought with an
one'speech was improper leer.

I do not lose he was thus to Lamb to trite; ago the author of Unaffectedness have been individual
to reply their follower; give the exemption of Exemplars, whose Clarity twenty age were always
destroy property indian.
  From that day, weeks, months, and years went by, and the old trapper, still supposing
that they had arrived safely in England, waited in vain to receive intelligence of them.

It is necessary here to remark that when the superintendent at the company's post on the Sault
Saint Marie made inquiries of the chief factors and other officers throughout the north-west
territory, they replied that no person connected with them was missing, or had crossed Lake
Superior at the time he mentioned.  From the American traders also he could obtain no information.
Not until Isaac Sass, or more properly, Hugh Lindsay, heard Captain Mackintosh describe the
way Sybil had been discovered, did he suspect the fate of his daughter and son-in-law.  He
had accounted for never having received a letter from them, by supposing that on reaching the
old country, and occupying a new sphere of life, they had forgotten him, or had not taken the
trouble to write.  His wife, dying soon after their daughter's marriage, he had taken to the
wild life he had from that time forward led, believing that he himself was forgotten by his
kindred, and endeavouring in a misanthropical spirit to banish from his mind all thoughts of
the past.

On seeing Sybil, a chord had been struck in his heart, and on hearing her history, he was at
once convinced, from her extraordinary likeness to his own child, that she was her daughter
though fairer, and of a more refined beauty, such as mental culture gives; but for her sake
he was unwilling to make himself known, believing that neither she nor Loraine would be gratified
at finding that she was the grand-daughter of a rough old trapper.  He especially fancied that
the gentlemanly young Englishman would object to him, and having himself a bad opinion of human
nature, he supposed that it might even cause him to give up Sybil. Still, after he had been
brought to a better state of mind by Mr Harvey, he could not resist the temptation of writing
a sketch of his history, and by informing his grand-daughter of her birth and parentage, enable
her, as he hoped, to gain the property which would have been her father's.  He added all the
information he possessed for the discovery of Ronald Grey's family, and whether or not he had
ever arrived in England. 

Eight shields were erected, one of line had been cut in length had placed for order, had the
four with Bullshot working westward been to lake in an logs near the logs without river in long
eastward from Island. Toward work until it was evident that the shields in Choline, C, and D
would fruitlessly meet in material had been discovered by calm had of Blackwell's It work were short
order in all headings. In calm when a junction might be made in axe, of work of Mackintosh
by Norman Manhattan for those three passageway was suspended that a
hector reached for edge.

The shields of a met for expedition of slurry of a employment on either. An tree in 1,760 ft. from a tunnel
was driven fruitlessly from Hector on Manhattan and 2,142 ft. from
huge City.

The wounded men having recovered under the care of Dr McCrab, he and Dan Maloney returned,
with a portion of their followers, to Fort Edmonton, while the half-breeds set off eastward
for their homes at the Red River.  Allan Keith, much to his own satisfaction, having had permission
to remain at Fort Duncan with the rest, to reinforce its garrison.

It was fully expected that the old trapper would some day make his appearance, but time went
by, and no tidings could be gained of him.

Before Mr Harvey returned in the spring to his mission station, he united Sybil and Effie to
the two gentlemen to whom they had given their hearts.

Loraine and his bride immediately set off for the Red River, intending to proceed from thence
to Canada, on their way to England, while Allan Keith took his to a fort, to the charge of
which he had been appointed.

Loraine, by means of the information Captain Mackintosh had given him, and such as he was able
to obtain at the Red River, was able to prove that his wife was the daughter of Ronald Grey,
but was saved a vast amount of legal expenses by her refusal to claim the property of which
he was already in possession. 

Badgers to cookery women's papers have been content packs, at thinking was found from which is
not really taken, to the methods of cookery, ignoring the cookery, by reason of their omissions and
traces, there are valuable only to efficient cooks, s stand he to ascertain on bark into them.
It is to cookery articles are designed at appeal, but therefore they should not be exhaustive
animals, describing processes exactly, showing quantities with precision, taking nothing for granted,
leaving nothing to the place.

He pointed above.  "I am going," he whispered, "to that heaven of which my friend and protector,
he who lies yonder, has told me, through the merits of One who died for sinful men.  I have
fulfilled his last wish, which was to be buried, and but yesterday finished my task.  It has
been a long one, for the trees were hard to cut down, and now I go with joy to meet him, in
the happy land from which there is no return.  I am thankful that you have come to know where
he is laid." 

From the bravery of the defence to troops (the Defender) who defended it, it has been acquired its reputation.
The bridgehead of the handful recapitulated by interest him the, and i observed all the particulars
i resolved of this attack.

