But going from the general to the particular, we may say that nowhere was a deeper consternation
spread than in the electoral division of West Barsetshire. No sooner had the tidings of the
dissolution reached the county than it was known that the duke intended to change his nominee.
Mr. Sowerby had now sat for the division since the Reform Bill! He had become one of the county
institutions, and by the dint of custom and long establishment had been borne with and even
liked by the county gentlemen, in spite of his well-known pecuniary irregularities. Now all
this was to be changed. No reason had as yet been publicly given, but it was understood that
Lord Dumbello was to be returned, although he did not own an acre of land in the county. It
is true that rumour went on to say that Lord Dumbello was about to form close connexions with
Barsetshire. He was on the eve of marrying a young lady, from the other division indeed, and
was now engaged, so it was said, in completing arrangements with the Government for the purchase
of that noble Crown property usually known as the Chace of Chaldicotes. It was also stated--this
statement, however, had hitherto been only announced in confidential whispers--that Chaldicotes
House itself would soon become the residence of the marquis. The duke was claiming it as his
own--would very shortly have completed his claims and taken possession:--and then, by some
arrangement between them, it was to be made over to Lord Dumbello. But very contrary rumours
to these got abroad also. Men said--such as dared to oppose the duke, and some few also who
did not dare to oppose him when the day of battle came--that it was beyond his grace's power
to turn Lord Dumbello into a Barsetshire magnate. The Crown property--such men said--was to
fall into the hands of young Mr. Gresham, of Boxall Hill, in the other division, and that the
terms of purchase had been already settled. And as to Mr. Sowerby's property and the house
of Chaldicotes--these opponents of the Omnium interest went on to explain--it was by no means
as yet so certain that the duke would be able to enter it and take possession. The place was
not to be given up to him quietly. A great fight would be made, and it was beginning to be
believed that the enormous mortgages would be paid off by a lady of immense wealth. And then
a dash of romance was not wanting to make these stories palatable. This lady of immense wealth
had been courted by Mr. Sowerby, had acknowledged her love,--but had refused to marry him on
account of his character. In testimony of her love, however, she was about to pay all his debts.

It was soon put beyond a rumour, and became manifest enough, that Mr. Sowerby did not intend
to retire from the county in obedience to the duke's behests. A placard was posted through
the whole division in which no allusion was made by name to the duke, but in which Mr. Sowerby
warned his friends not to be led away by any report that he intended to retire from the representation
of West Barsetshire. "He had sat," the placard said, "for the same county during the full period
of a quarter of a century, and he would not lightly give up an honour that had been extended
to him so often and which he prized so dearly. There were but few men now in the House whose
connexion with the same body of constituents had remained unbroken so long as had that which
bound him to West Barsetshire; and he confidently hoped that that connexion might be continued
through another period of coming years till he might find himself in the glorious position
of being the father of the county members of the House of Commons." The placard said much more
than this, and hinted at sundry and various questions, all of great interest to the county;
but it did not say one word of the Duke of Omnium, though every one knew what the duke was
supposed to be doing in the matter. He was, as it were, a great Llama, shut up in a holy of
holies, inscrutable, invisible, inexorable,--not to be seen by men's eyes or heard by their
ears, hardly to be mentioned by ordinary men at such periods as these without an inward quaking.
But, nevertheless, it was he who was supposed to rule them. Euphemism required that his name
should be mentioned at no public meetings in connexion with the coming election; but, nevertheless,
most men in the county believed that he could send his dog up to the House of Commons as member
for West Barsetshire if it so pleased him.

It was supposed, therefore, that our friend Sowerby would have no chance; but he was lucky
in finding assistance in a quarter from which he certainly had not deserved it. He had been
a staunch friend of the gods during the whole of his political life,--as, indeed, was to be
expected, seeing that he had been the duke's nominee; but, nevertheless, on the present occasion,
all the giants connected with the county came forward to his rescue. They did not do this with
the acknowledged purpose of opposing the duke; they declared that they were actuated by a generous
disinclination to see an old county member put from his seat; but the world knew that the battle
was to be waged against the great Llama. It was to be a contest between the powers of aristocracy
and the powers of oligarchy, as those powers existed in West Barsetshire,--and, it may be added,
that democracy would have very little to say to it, on one side or on the other. The lower
order of voters, the small farmers and tradesmen, would no doubt range themselves on the side
of the duke, and would endeavour to flatter themselves that they were thereby furthering the
views of the Liberal side; but they would in fact be led to the poll by an old-fashioned, time-honoured
adherence to the will of their great Llama; and by an apprehension of evil if that Llama should
arise and shake himself in his wrath. What might not come to the county if the Llama were to
walk himself off, he with his satellites and armies and courtiers? There he was, a great Llama;
and though he came among them but seldom, and was scarcely seen when he did come, nevertheless--and
not the less but rather the more--was obedience to him considered as salutary and opposition
regarded as dangerous. A great rural Llama is still sufficiently mighty in rural England. But
the priest of the temple, Mr. Fothergill, was frequent enough in men's eyes, and it was beautiful
to hear with how varied a voice he alluded to the things around him and to the changes which
were coming. To the small farmers, not only on the Gatherum property, but on others also, he
spoke of the duke as a beneficent influence shedding prosperity on all around him, keeping
up prices by his presence, and forbidding the poor rates to rise above one and fourpence in
the pound by the general employment which he occasioned. Men must be mad, he thought, who would
willingly fly in the duke's face. To the squires from a distance he declared that no one had
a right to charge the duke with any interference; as far, at least, as he knew the duke's mind.
People would talk of things of which they understood nothing. Could any one say that he had
traced a single request for a vote home to the duke? All this did not alter the settled conviction
on men's minds; but it had its effect, and tended to increase the mystery in which the duke's
doings were enveloped. But to his own familiars, to the gentry immediately around him, Mr.
Fothergill merely winked his eye. They knew what was what, and so did he. The duke had never
been bit yet in such matters, and Mr. Fothergill did not think that he would now submit himself
to any such operation.

