The Emperor, having made inquiries concerning this soldier, learned that- he was a good fellow,
and not unintelligent.  On the next promotion he was made sub-lieutenant.  It is impossible
to give an idea of the effect of such occurrences on the army.  They were a constant subject
of conversation with the soldiers, and stimulated them inexpressibly.  The one who enjoyed
the greatest distinction in his company was he of whom it could be said: "The Emperor has spoken
to him."

At the battle of Essling the brave General Daleim, commanding a division of the fourth corps,
found himself during the hottest part of the action at a spot swept by the enemy's artillery.
The Emperor, passing near him, said: "It is warm in your locality!"--"Yes, Sire; permit me
to extinguish the fire."--"Go."  This one word sufficed; in the twinkling of an eye the terrible
battery was taken.  In the evening the Emperor, seeing General Daleim, approached him, and
said, "It seems you only had to blow on it." His Majesty alluded General Daleim's habit of
incessant whistling.

Among the brave general officers around the Emperor, a few were not highly educated, though
their other fine qualities recommended them; some were celebrated for other reasons than their
military merit.  Thus General Junot and General Fournier were known as the best pistol shots;
General Lasellette was famous for his love of music, which he indulged to such an extent as
to have a piano always in one of his baggage wagons. This general drank only water; but, on
the contrary, it was very different with General Bisson.  Who has not heard of the hardest
drinker in all the army?  One day the Emperor, meeting him at Berlin, said to him, "Well, Bisson,
do you still drink much?"--"Moderately, Sire; not more than twenty-five bottles."  This was,
in fact, a great improvement, for he had more than once reached the number of forty without
being made tipsy.  Moreover, with General Bisson it was not a vice, but an imperious need.
The Emperor knowing this, and being much attached to him, allowed him a pension of twelve thousand
francs out of his privy purse, and gave him besides frequent presents.

Among the officers who were not very well educated, we may be permitted to mention General
Gros; and the manner in which he was promoted to the grade of general proves this fact.  But
his bravery was equal to every proof, and he was a superb specimen of masculine beauty.  The
pen alone was an unaccustomed weapon to him, and he could hardly use it to sign his name; and
it was said that he was not much more proficient in reading. Being colonel of the guard, he
found himself one day alone at the Tuileries in an apartment where he waited until the Emperor
could be seen.  There he delighted himself with observing his image reflected in the glass,
and readjusting his cravat; and the admiration he felt at his own image led him to converse
aloud with himself or rather with his reflection.  "Ah!"  said he, "if you only knew 'bachebachiques'
(mathematics), such a man as you, with a soldier's heart like yours, ah! the Emperor would
make you a general!"--"You are one," said the Emperor, striking him on the shoulder.  His Majesty
had entered the saloon without being heard, and had amused himself with listening to the conversation
Colonel Gros had carried on with himself.  Such were the circumstances of his promotion to
the rank of general, and what is more to be a general in the guard.

I have now arrived at the end of my list of military anecdotes.  I have just spoken of a general's
promotion, and will close with the story of a simple drummer, but a drummer renowned throughout
the army as a perfect buffoon, in fact, the famous Rata, to whom General Gros, as we shall
see; was deeply attached.

The army marched on Lintz during the campaign of 1809.  Rata, drummer of the grenadiers of
the fourth regiment of the line, and famous as a buffoon, having learned that the guard was
to pass, and that it was commanded by General Gros; desired to see this officer who had been
his chief of battalion, and with whom he had formerly taken all sorts of liberties.  Rata thereupon
waged his mustache, and went to salute the general, addressing him thus: "Ah, here you are,
General.  How are you?" --"Very well, indeed, Rata; and you?"--"Always well, but not so well
as you, it seems to me.  Since you are doing so very well, you no longer think of poor Rata;
for if he did not come to see you, you would not even think of sending him a few sous to buy
tobacco."  While saying, "You do so well," Rata had quickly seized General Gross hat, and put
it on his head in place of his own.  At this moment the Emperor passed, and seeing a drummer
wearing the hat of a general of his guard, he could hardly believe his eyes.  He spurred up
his horse, and inquired the cause. General Gros then said, laughing, and in the frank speech
he so often used even to the Emperor, "It is a brave soldier from my old battalion, accustomed
to play pranks to amuse his comrades.  He is a brave fellow, Sire, and every inch a man, and
I recommend him to your Majesty. Moreover, Sire, he can himself do more than a whole park of
artillery. Come, Rata, give us a broad side, and no quarter."  The Emperor listened, and observed
almost stupefied what was passing under his very eyes, when Rata, in no wise intimidated by
the presence of the Emperor, prepared to execute the general's order; then, sticking his finger
in his mouth, he made a noise like first the whistling and then the bursting of a shell. The
imitation was so perfect that the Emperor was compelled to laugh, and turning to General Gros,
said, "Come, take this man this very evening into the guard, and remind me of him on the next
occasion."  In a short while Rata had the cross, which those who threw real shells at the enemy
often had not; so largely does caprice enter into the destiny of men!

L'ENVOI.

(BY THE EDITOR OF THE FRENCH EDITION OF 1830.)

The life of any one who has played a distinguished part offers many points of view, the number
of which increases in proportion to the influence he has wielded upon the movement of events.
This has been greater in the case of Napoleon than of any other personage in history. The product
of an era of convulsions, in all of whose changes he took part, and which he at last closed
by subjecting all ideas under a rule, which at one time promised to be lasting, he, like Catiline,
requires a Sallust; like Charlemagne, an Eginhard; and like Alexander, a Quintus Curtius. 
M. de Bourrienne has, indeed, after the manner of Commines, shown him to us undisguised in
his political manipulations and in the private life of his Court.  This is a great step towards
a knowledge of his individuality, but it is not enough.  It is in a thorough acquaintance with
his private life that this disillusioned age will find the secret springs of the drama of his
marvelous career.  The great men of former ages were veiled from us by a cloud of prejudice
which even the good sense of Plutarch scarcely penetrated.  Our age, more analytical and freer
from illusions, in the great man seeks to find the individual.  It is by this searching test
that the present puts aside all illusions, and that the future will seek to justify its judgments.
In the council of state, the statesman is in his robe, on the battlefield the warrior is beneath
his armor, but in his bedchamber, in his undress, we find the man.

It has been said that no man is, a hero to his valet.  It would give wide latitude to a witty
remark, which has become proverbial, to make it the epigraph of these memoirs.  The valet of
a hero by that very fact is something more than a valet.  Amber is only earth, and Bologna
stone only a piece of rock; but the first gives out the perfume of the rose, and the other
flashes the rays of the sun.  The character of a witness is dignified by the solemnity of the
scene and the greatness of the actor. Even before reading the manuscript of M. Constant, we
were strongly persuaded that impressions so unusual and so striking would raise him to the
level of the occasion.

The reader can now judge of this for himself.  These are the memoirs of M. Constant,--autographic
memoirs of one still living, who has written them to preserve his recollections.  It is the
private history, the familiar life, the leisure moments, passed in undress, of Napoleon, which
we now present to the public.  It is Napoleon taken without a mask, deprived of his general's
sword, the consular purple, the imperial crown,--Napoleon resting from council and from battle,
forgetful of power and of conquest, Napoleon unbending himself, going to bed, sleeping the
slumber of a common man, as if the world did not hang upon his dreams.

These are striking facts, so natural and of such simplicity, that though a biased judgment
may, perhaps, exaggerate their character, and amplify their importance, they will furnish to
an impartial and reflective mind a wealth of evidence far superior to the vain speculations
of the imagination or the prejudiced judgments of political parties.

In this light the author of these memoirs is not an author, but simply a narrator, who has
seen more closely and intimately than any one else the Master of the West, who was for fifteen
years his master also; and what he has written he has seen with his own eyes.