That the Spirit was imparted to many Christians in a similar way is clear. Paul tells the brethren
at Borne: "For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift, to the end
that ye may be established." It was not necessary that he see these brethren to the end that
he might proclaim the gospel unto them; but it was necessary that he see them that he might
lay hands on them and impart the gift of the Spirit.

In Mark 16:17, 18 Jesus concludes the commission as follows: "And these signs shall accompany
them that believe: in my name shall they cast out demons; they shall speak with new tongues;
they shall take up serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall in no wise hurt them;
they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover." Here is clearly the promise of supernatural
power which he calls "signs." Signs of what? There is but one answer that can be given: signs
of the indwelling of God's Spirit by which alone they could work these signs. Are these signs
in existence to-day? No thoughtful reader will so affirm. If the manifestations of the Spirit
have ceased, is it not reasonable that the "gift" has also ceased? If not, we have the remarkable
fact of the Spirit dwelling in man and not being able to manifest any signs of his indwelling.

We are now enabled to reach two conclusions of importance: First, the "gift of the Spirit"
was a supernatural gift for the purpose of enabling the "believers" in apostolic days to work
the "signs" which Christ said should accompany them that believe, and ceased when the signs
ceased. Second, many of the exhortations of the New Testament writers were to a church whose
members were filled with the supernatural power of the Spirit, and should be interpreted in
the light of that fact. (Rom. 1:4). "But ye are ... in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit
of God dwelleth in you" (Rom. 8:9). "Ourselves also, who have the first-fruits of the Spirit"
(Rom. 8:23). "My conscience bearing witness with me in the Holy Spirit" (Rom. 9:1). "Now I
beseech you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the love of the Spirit" (Rom. 15:30).
"Now he that wrought us for this very thing is God, who gave unto us the earnest of the Spirit"
(2 Cor. 5:5). 1:13, 14). "Through him we both have our access in one Spirit unto the Father"
(Eph. 2:18). "Be filled with the Spirit" (Eph. 5:18). "If there is therefore any ... fellowship
of the Spirit" (Phil. 2:1). "Therefore he that rejecteth, rejecteth ... God, who giveth his
Holy Spirit unto you" (1 Thess. 4:8). "For God gave us not a spirit, of fearfulness; but of
power and love and discipline" (2 Tim. 1:7). (Tit. 3:5). "God also bearing witness with them,
both by signs and wonders and by manifold powers, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit" (Heb. 2:4).
"Doth the spirit which he made to dwell in us long unto envying?" (Jas. 4:5). "Ye have an anointing
from the Holy One" (1 John 2: 20). "The anointing which ye received of him abideth in you"
(1 John 2:27). "He hath given us of his Spirit" (1 John 4:13).

All the above Scriptures become clear if we understand them to apply to a people through whom
God was manifesting his presence by supernatural demonstrations, but many of them lack meaning
when applied to people of God who no longer exhibit these supernatural powers.

VIII

THE SPIRIT AND THE WORLD

Hitherto we have been treating the Holy Spirit in terms of the past, but now we come to the
present tense. Is the Holy Spirit a power in the present age? If so, what kind of a power?
Is he making an issue with men as a direct power and working upon them immediately, or is he
working through an instrumentality, and, if so, what is the instrumentality?

The Spirit is undoubtedly dealing with two classes of persons in his work to-day.

First, those who are not believers, and therefore unconverted and "aliens from the commonwealth
of Israel."

Second, those who have believed and obeyed the gospel, and are therefore children of God.

We shall devote this chapter to the influence of the Spirit upon the unbelieving world.

In the very nature of things, the work of the Spirit is to make believers out of unbelievers,
and convert the perverted. We all believe this. We believe that all believers are made by the
power of the Spirit. We differ about whether he exercises that power directly from himself
to the individual soul, or whether he exercises that power through the gospel, through the
apostles and through Christ's word of truth. Reason, philosophy and experience exhausted themselves
in discovering but two methods by which one spirit can exercise an influence over another.

First, a direct mechanical, immediate influence taking possession of the will and influencing
the mind of and controlling the speech and actions of the subject. This takes place in hypnotism
and is supposed to take place in clairvoyance and clairaudience.

Second, a rational moral influence exerted by ideas impressed upon the mind by teaching and
words that represent ideas.

There is, there can be, no third way by which one spirit can influence another. You may study
till you are gray-headed or bald-headed, for that matter, and you will discover no other way.

The Holy Spirit has used both of these methods in the past.

1. In the case of the apostles and prophets, he immediately, mechanically and directly controlled
their actions and speech, so much so that Jesus told them that under the influence of the Spirit
they should take no thought what they should say. "For it is not ye that speak, but the Holy
Spirit" (Mark 13:11). "And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with
other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance" (Acts 2:4).

2. In the case of the men to whom the apostles preached on the day of Pentecost, the Spirit
used a rational moral influence through the words of Peter's sermon, which conveyed ideas that
swayed their minds and hearts. It is claimed by some that both of these methods are used by
the Spirit to-day. The modern teaching concerning the first of these influences is well set
forth in the following selection from a widely known book by L.B. Dunn, entitled "The Mission
of the Spirit": "Even where the light of the gospel does not shine, and the institutions of
the gospel are not enjoyed, there the Spirit acts directly upon man's heart and conscience,
writes the law of God upon his mind, gives him the sense of sin and the need of forgiveness.
Hence, wherever man is, there the Comforter is at work upon his heart and mind. The divine
influence is imparted unconditionally and irresistibly. The Holy Spirit is ever employed to
bring man back to God; and whether he desires it or not, whether he is willing or unwilling,
still the Comforter comes to him with his heavenly illumination, his divine influence, convincing
him of sin, and his consequent need of the mercy of God. May I not truly say that man really
has no choice in the matter as to whether he will or will not have this divine influence upon
his soul? He is, he must be, enlightened and convinced, whether he will hear or forbear, whether
he will be saved or damned. He can not prevent the entrance of the Spirit into his heart."

In connection with the above we quote also from a sermon in "The Baptist Pulpit," by Rev. J.W.
Hayhurst: "God has given us no means by which the conversion of sinners, or the general revival
of religion, can be effected, irrespective of the direct agency of the Spirit. The gospel itself
will not do it."

These quotations give us a pretty clear and explicit statement of the theory of the direct
mechanical and immediate operation of the Holy Spirit upon the human spirit.

The second method is aptly stated by an editorial which appeared in the Sunday School Times
during the year 1908: "It is a strange fact that, notwithstanding the explicitness and uniformity
of the New Testament teachings on this subject, there is a widespread popular opinion that
the Holy Spirit's work is directly and immediately on or in the heart of the unbeliever, without
the intervention or agency of the Christian whatever. To hear what is said in the sermons,
or sung in the hymns, or prayed in the prayers of many Christians, one might believe that the
Holy Spirit is sent directly to the unbelieving sinner, to strive with him, to show him his
sin, and to point him to, the Saviour; and that therefore the Christian preacher or teacher
has rather to wait the results of this work of the Spirit, than to be the instrument or the
avenue of this work. Many a Christian seems to think that the Holy Spirit's work is that of
a revival preacher, in moving sinners to repentance by a direct appeal to their consciences
and understandings, instead of stirring up Christians to appeal, in the power of the Spirit,
to unbelievers to believe and turn to God. It is true that, in this present dispensation of
the Spirit, all power in the evangelizing of the world, and in the swaying of the hearts of
men toward Christ and in the service of Christ, is primarily with the Holy Spirit. But it is
also true that the Holy Spirit, according to the Bible teachings, works in and by and through
believers in Jesus. Hence if one who is not a believer in Jesus is to be won to discipleship,
the question is not, 'Will the Holy Spirit work on his mind immediately, or will the Holy Spirit
work through one who already believes?' for that question the Bible has already answered. The
Holy Spirit can use the written words, like the spoken words, of a chosen messenger of God
to an unbelieving soul. But in every case the Spirit reaches the believer mediately, not immediately."

Now, these theories are directly contradictory. If one is true, the other can not be. The only
question to decide is as to which one is true. Let us examine these theories in the light of
reason, revelation and experience. If the Holy Spirit works directly and immediately on the
heart of man, surely there should be some tangible evidence of it given in such a striking
way as to demonstrate the truth of the theory. But the experience of Christendom for nineteen
centuries fails to furnish a single unquestioned evidence of it. The proof of the theory is
made to hinge upon far-fetched inferences drawn from Scripture statements, and even these fail
to furnish the evidence sought. Let us notice some of the Scriptures that are relied upon to
prove a direct operation of the Spirit in the conversion of sinners:

1. (Ezek. 36:26, 27). This passage has been much relied upon to prove the theory of an abstract
operation of the Spirit upon the sinner in conversion. Its failure to support the theory is
evidenced by the following facts:

(1) The Lord was not talking about the conversion of a sinner, but the renewal of Israel as
a people.

(2) The passage says nothing about the work of the Holy Spirit.

(3) There is nothing mentioned in the passage that could not have been accomplished by ordinary
means.

(4) The very point to be proven is assumed.

2. But unto this day, whensoever Moses is read, a veil lieth upon their heart. But whensoever
it shall turn to the Lord, the veil is taken away" (2 Cor. 3:14-16). Just what is found here
to prove a direct operation of the Spirit would be difficult to say. The apostle is speaking
of the Jews reading the Scriptures with a veil which blinds them. The veil was undoubtedly
a false interpretation, which prevented their seeing Christ in their Scriptures. If they had
not this wrong interpretation, they would see Christ and their Scriptures would be plain. As
it was, they were dark and mysterious. The apostle tells what will remove the veil: "When they
shall turn to the Lord," the veil shall be taken away. There is nothing in the whole passage
that even hints at an immediate operation of the Spirit.

3. (Eph. 2:10). There is nothing here to even hint at a direct operation. It says the Ephesians
were created in Christ Jesus (not in the Holy Spirit) unto good works. That is something to
the point. There is nothing in the passage to warrant the teaching of a special operation to
enable them to believe.

4. (Acts 16:14). This is relied upon to prove a direct work of the Spirit upon Lydia that she
might hear and believe. The very thing to be proved is again assumed. True, the Lord opened
Lydia's heart, but he didn't do so that she might "receive the word," for Paul had already
preached it to her. Her heart was opened that "she gave heed to the things spoken by Paul."
Before she heard Paul she had a narrow, bigoted Jewish heart. After she heard the preaching,
her heart was opened to attend to the things she had heard. That is, she obeyed the gospel.
Nothing about the Holy Spirit in the entire history.

5. "And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may be with
you for ever, even the Spirit of truth: whom the world cannot receive; for it beholdeth him
not, neither knoweth him: ye know him; for he abideth with you, and shall be in you" (John
14:16, 17). As I have elsewhere shown, this passage has a private and peculiar application
to the apostles, and not to the world of mankind. It specifically states that "the world cannot
receive" this Comforter. That kills it as a proof-text that the world "must receive it" before
it can believe. Those who affirm a direct operation of the Spirit on "the world" make a clear-cut
issue with the Saviour.

6. (1 Cor. 3:6). Those who use this to prove a special operation of the Spirit make it mean,
"I have planted the word and Apollos has watered it, but God by a special work of the Holy
Spirit makes the increase of the word." This is a false interpretation, as the apostle was
not speaking of "the word" at all. How could Apollos "water the word"? The apostle was speaking
of the congregation at Corinth, which he had planted and Apollos had tended, and which, under
the care of God, had made increase. There is nothing in the passage about the Holy Spirit.

7. (Acts 10:44). This has reference to God's signifying his acceptance of the Gentiles by an
outpouring similar to the one on the day of Pentecost. It was purely a supernatural act, and
has never been repeated since that day. But even then it would not prove the necessity of an
operation of the Spirit, that men might hear the gospel and believe it. The record says "it
fell on all them that heard the word." Cornelius was told by the angel to send for Peter, "who
shall tell thee words whereby thou shalt be saved."

8. (1 Cor. 2:14, 15). This is held to be one of the strongest passages to confirm the teaching
of the necessity of a direct operation of the Holy Spirit to enable a man to hear and to believe
the gospel. A brief examination of the context will show that such an idea was not in the mind
of the apostle at all. The apostle is not even speaking of conversion when he uses the language.
He is speaking of inspiration. The spiritual man in Paul's mind was a man inspired by the Spirit,
and the natural man was an uninspired man. If the reader will turn to the ninth verse of the
chapter and read to the conclusion of the chapter, and place "uninspired" where he finds "natural,"
and "inspired" where "spiritual" is found, the passage will be as clear as a sunbeam. "The
things of the Spirit" are things produced by the Spirit, which needed an inspired man to explain.
The day of Pentecost was a "thing of the Spirit," and there was not an uninspired man in all
that great throng that could understand it. When these natural (uninspired) men heard Peter's
(inspired) spiritual explanation, they could understand it. They did understand it and obeyed
it to the number of three thousand. Nebuchadnezzar's vision was a "thing of the Spirit," and
there was not a natural (uninspired) man in all his realm that could interpret it. But Daniel,
a spiritual (inspired) man, explained it in spiritual language and then all could understand
it. There is nothing in the passage to support the theory of a direct operation to enable man
to understand the gospel.

9. "Him did God exalt with his right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance
to Israel, and remission of sins" (Acts 5:31). This passage is used because it speaks of Christ
giving repentance. They infer that is done by a direct operation of the Spirit. But the passage
says nothing as to how he grants repentance. Christ gives many things that are not the result
of a direct operation of the Spirit. The very next verse says God gives "the Holy Spirit to
all them that obey him." This directly contradicts the theory of the necessity of a direct
operation of the Spirit to enable men to obey him.

10. "No man can come to me, except the Father that sent me draw him: and I will raise him up
in the last day" (John 6:44). This is greatly relied upon to show the necessity of an irresistible
drawing before men can come to Christ. The word "draw," in the Scriptures, is a translation
of two words in the original. One means to draw by force, "to drag;" the other means to "entice,
allure or persuade"--that men are drawn by moral arguments, or "allured." In the next verse
Christ tells how men are drawn. "Every one that hath heard from the Father, and hath learned,
cometh unto me." Christ draws men by "teaching," and they come as result of "learning." That
is why he told his disciples to "go teach all nations." That is Christ's method of drawing.

Now, I have selected ten of the strongest passages in the New Testament that support the theory
of a direct operation of the Spirit before men are qualified to hear and obey the gospel. If
it is not taught in the above passages, it is not taught in the Bible. When rightly considered,
not one of them even leans toward the theory. Are we not justified in saying that the theory
is not supported by the Scriptures! Now, how are persons made believers? Hear the word of God:

1. Now, here is the unequivocal statement that God's power to save is lodged in the gospel.
In all ages of Christianity there is not a record of a single soul ever being saved without
the presence of this power. But this is not a magical power. It must be heard in order that
it produce faith. But how shall they hear without a preacher and how shall he preach except
he be sent? The order is, then, (1) send, (2) preach, (3) hear, (4) believe, (5) obey, (6)
saved. Now, this is the order of the Saviour's commission to his followers. "Go preach the
gospel to every creature; he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved." That is our marching
order to-day.

2. (Acts 17:11, 12). Here were believers made by searching the Scriptures and by receiving
the Word with all "readiness of mind." The same method will make believers of unbelievers to-day.

3. "For though ye have ten thousand tutors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers; for in
Christ Jesus I begat you through the gospel" (1 Cor. 4:15). No clearer statement could be made
as to the power exercised in begetting men to a new life. They are begotten through the gospel.

4. (Jas. 1:18). This is as clear as the one above it. We are brought forth by the Word of truth.

5. (Matt. 13:15). To be healed, one must be converted; to be converted, one must understand
with the heart; to understand with the heart, one must perceive and hear. But the people the
Lord mentions were not healed. Why? Because they were not converted. Why were they not converted?
Because they had not perceived with their eyes and heard with their ears. Why had they not
seen and heard! "Their ears are dull of hearing, And their eyes they have closed; Lest at any
time they should see with their eyes, And hear with their ears." Men talk of the Bible being
a sealed book. They would better talk of sealed eyes, ears and hearts, as does the Saviour.

IX

THE SPIRIT AND CHRISTIANS

It has been aptly and truthfully said that "no importance can be attached to a religion that
is not begun, carried on and completed by the Spirit of God." That the Christian is led, guided
and strengthened by the Spirit can not be denied by any Bible reader. To deny the fact that
the Spirit dwells in us is to deny the Bible. But it is asserted with equal clearness in the
Divine Word that God dwells in us. (2 Cor. 6:16). This not only says that God will dwell in
us, but that he walks in us. It is also clearly taught that Christ dwells in us. (Eph. 3:17).

Now, if God, Christ and the Spirit dwell in us, is there any teaching that the Spirit dwells
in us in a different sense from that in which the Father and the Son dwell in us? How, then,
does the Father dwell in us? By referring to Lev. 26:12, from which Paul quoted, we find that
God promised to be in communion with Israel, but there is nothing in the passage to show his
personal indwelling in any one person. How does Christ dwell in us? The passage above quoted
says, "Christ shall dwell in your hearts by faith;" more correctly rendered, "the faith" or
the gospel. How does the Spirit dwell in us? In Gal. 3:2, Paul asks the Galatians: "Received
ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of the faith?"--or the gospel. The
above Scriptures clearly teach that when the words, thoughts and Spirit of God are controlling
in our lives, God dwells in us; that when the gospel controls us, Christ dwells in us; that
when we receive the gospel by the hearing of faith, the Spirit dwells in us.

