I argued to myself that that energy must produce results. So I built an anecdote out of your
remark. In it I make Napoleon Bonaparte say to me--but see for yourself the anecdote (ingeniously
clipped and curtailed) in paragraph eleven of your Reply.--[So, I repeat, Mark Twain does not
like M. Paul Bourget's book. So long as he makes light fun of the great French writer he is
at home, he is pleasant, he is the American humorist we know.

Hear the answer:

"I reckon a Frenchman's got his little standby for a dull time, too; because when all other
interests fail, he can turn in and see if he can't find out who his father was."

The first remark is a good-humored bit of chaffing on American snobbery. I may be utterly destitute
of humor, but I call the second remark a gratuitous charge of immorality hurled at the French
women--a remark unworthy of a man who has the ear of the public, unworthy of a gentleman, a
gross insult to a nation friendly to America, a nation that helped Mark Twain's ancestors in
their struggle for liberty, a nation where to-day it is enough to say that you are American
to see every door open wide to you.

If Mark Twain was hard up in search of, a French "chestnut," I might have told him the following
little anecdote. It is more funny than his, and would have been less insulting: Two little
street boys are abusing each other. "Ah, hold your tongue," says one, "you ain't got no father."

"Ain't got no father!" replies the other; "I've got more fathers than you."

Now, then, your anecdote about the grandfathers hurt me. Why? Because it had a point. It wouldn't
have hurt me if it hadn't had point. You wouldn't have wasted space on it if it hadn't had point.

My anecdote has hurt you. Why? Because it had point, I suppose. It wouldn't have hurt you if
it hadn't had point. I judged from your remark about the diligence and industry of the high
Parisian upper crust that it would have some point, but really I had no idea what a gold-mine
I had struck. I never suspected that the point was going to stick into the entire nation; but
of course you know your nation better than I do, and if you think it punctures them all, I
have to yield to your judgment. But you are to blame, your own self. Your remark misled me.
I supposed the industry was confined to that little unnumerous upper layer.

Well, now that the unfortunate thing has been done, let us do what we can to undo it. There
must be a way, M. Bourget, and I am willing to do anything that will help; for I am as sorry
as you can be yourself.

I will tell you what I think will be the very thing.

We will swap anecdotes. I will take your anecdote and you take mine. I will say to the dukes
and counts and princes of the ancient nobility of France:

"Ha, ha! You must have a pretty hard time trying to find out who your grandfathers were?"

They will merely smile indifferently and not feel hurt, because they can trace their lineage
back through centuries.

And you will hurl mine at every individual in the American nation, saying:

"And you must have a pretty hard time trying to find out who your fathers were." They will
merely smile indifferently, and not feel hurt, because they haven't any difficulty in finding
their fathers.

Do you get the idea? The whole harm in the anecdotes is in the point, you see; and when we
swap them around that way, they haven't any.

