I turned and glanced again at the sentries, almost envying them their perfect carriage. Had
they been men of iron, worked by a spring, they could not have moved with more clock-like regularity.
And yet, no doubt, they had one time been country louts like any others. Truly there was much
virtue in discipline. Yet still, and here I shook my head, the Virginia troops were brave as
any in the world, and would prove it. From the officers' quarters came the sound of singing
and much laughter, and I flushed as I thought perchance it was at me they laughed. I have learned
long since that no man's laughter need disturb rue, so my heart be clear, but this was wisdom
far beyond my years and yet undreamed of, and I shook my fist at the row of lighted windows.

"What, still fuming, Tom?" cried a voice at my elbow, and I turned to find Colonel Washington
there; "and staring over toward the barracks as though you would like to gobble up every one
within! Well, I admit you have cause," he added, and I saw that his face grew stern. "You may
have to bear many such insults before the campaign is ended, but I hope and believe that the
conduct of the Virginia troops will yet win them the respect of the regulars. You seem to have
lost no time in getting to camp," he added, in a lighter tone.

"There was nothing to keep me at Riverview," I answered bitterly. "My absence is much preferred
to my presence there. Had I not come to Winchester, I must have gone somewhere else. Your letter
came most opportunely."

"You are out of humor to-night, Tom," said Washington, but his tone was kindly, and he placed
one hand upon my arm as we turned back toward the cabin where my quarters were. He was scarce
three years my senior, yet to me he seemed immeasurably the elder. I had always thought of
him as of a man, and I verily believe he was a man in mind and temper while yet a boy in body.
I had ridden beside him many times over his mother's estate, and I had noticed--and chafed
somewhat at the knowledge--that women much older than he always called him Mr. Washington,
while even that little chit of a Polly Johnston called me Tom to my face, and laughed at me
when I assumed an air of injured dignity. I think it was the fact that my temper was so the
opposite of his own which drew him to me, and as for myself, I was proud to have such a friend,
and of the chance to march with him again over the mountains against the French.

He knew well how to humor me, and walked beside me, saying nothing. I glanced at his face,
half shamed of my petulance, and I saw that he was no longer smiling. His lips were closed
in that firm straight line which I had already seen once or twice, and which during years of
trial became habitual to him. My own petty anger vanished at the sight.

"I have not yet thanked you, Colonel Washington," I said at last, "for securing me my appointment.
I was eating my heart out to make the campaign, but saw no way of doing so until your message
reached me."

"Why, Tom," he laughed, "you were the first of whom I thought when General Braddock gave me
leave to fill some of the vacancies. Did you think I had so soon forgot the one who saved my
life at Fort Necessity?"

I opened my mouth to protest, but he silenced me with a gesture.

"I can see it as though it were here before us," he continued. "The French and Indians on the
knoll yonder, my own men kneeling in the trenches, almost waist-deep in water, trying in vain
to keep their powder dry; here and there a wounded man lying in the mud and cursing, the rain
and mist over it all, and the night coming on. And then, suddenly, the rush of Indians at our
back, and over the breastwork. I had my pistol in my hand, you remember, Tom, but the powder
flashed in the pan, and the foremost of the savages was upon me. I saw his tomahawk in the
air, and I remember wondering who would best command when I was dead. But your aim was true
and your powder dry, and when the tomahawk fell, it fell harmless, with its owner upon it."

For a moment neither of us spoke. My eyes were wet at thought of the scene which I so well
remembered, and when I turned to him, I saw that he was still brooding over this defeat, which
had rankled as a poisoned arrow in his breast ever since that melancholy morning we had marched
away from the Great Meadows with the French on either side and the Indians looting the baggage
in the rear. As we reached my quarters, we turned by a common impulse and continued onward
through the darkness.

"This expedition must be more fortunate," he said at last, as though in answer to his own thought.
"A thousand regulars, as many more provincials, guns, and every equipage,--yes, it is large
enough and strong enough, unless"--

"Unless?" I questioned, as he paused.

"Unless we walk headlong to our own destruction," he said. "But no, I won't believe it. The
general has been bred in the Coldstreams and knows nothing of frontier fighting. But he is
a brave man, an honest man, and he will learn. Small wonder he believes in discipline after
serving half a century in such a regiment. Have you ever heard the story of their fight at
Fontenoy, ten years since, when they lost two hundred and forty men? I heard it three nights
ago at the general's table, and 't was enough to make a man weep for very pity that such valor
should count for naught."

"Tell it me," I cried, for if there is one thing I love above all others,--yea, even yet, when
I must sit useless by,--it is the tale of brave deeds nobly done.

"'T was on the eleventh day of May, seventeen forty-five," he said, "that the English and the
Dutch met the French, who were under Marshal Saxe. Louis the Fifteenth himself was on the field,
with the Grand Dauphin by his side and a throng of courtiers about him, for he knew how much
depended on the issue of this battle. A redoubt, held by the famous Guards, bristling with
cannon, covered the French position. The Dutch, appalled at the task before them, refused to
advance, but his Grace of Cumberland, who commanded the English, rose equal to the moment.
He formed his troops in column, the Coldstreams at its head, and gave the word for the assault.
The batteries thundered, the redoubt was crowned with flame, but the Coldstreams turned neither
to the right nor left. Straight on they marched,--to annihilation, as it seemed,--reforming
as they went, over hill and gully, as steadily as on parade. At last they reached their goal,
and an instant's silence fell upon the field as they faced the French. The English officers
raised their hats to their adversaries, who returned the salute as though they were at Versailles,
not looking in the eyes of death.

"'Gentlemen of the French Guard,' cried Lord Charles Hay, 'fire, if you please.'

"'Impossible, monsieur,' cried the Count of Hauteroche; 'the French Guards never fire first.
Pray, fire yourselves.'

"The order was given, and the French ranks fell as grain before the sickle. They gave way,
the Coldstreams advancing in perfect order, firing volley after volley. The officers, with
their rattans, turned the men's muskets to the right or left, as need demanded. Nothing could
stop that terrible approach, resistless as a whirlwind, and French and Swiss broke themselves
against it, only to be dashed back as spray from a rocky coast. Regiment after regiment was
repulsed, and the Coldstreams still advanced. Saxe thought the battle lost, and begged the
king and the dauphin to flee while time permitted. At the last desperate moment, he rallied
the artillery and all the forces of his army for a final effort. The artillery was massed before
the English, and they had none to answer it. The king himself led the charge against their
flanks, which the Dutch should have protected. But the Dutch preferred to remain safely in
the rear. The Coldstreams stood their ground, reforming their ranks with perfect coolness,
until Cumberland saw it were madness to remain, and ordered the retreat. And it was more glorious
than the advance. With only half their number on their feet, they faced about, without disorder,
their ranks steady and unwavering, and moved off sullenly and slowly, as though ready at any
moment to turn again and rend the ranks of the victors. It was a deed to match Thermopylae."

I lifted my hat from my head, and my lips were trembling.

"I salute them," I said. "'T was well done. And was General Braddock present on that day?"

"He commanded one battalion of the regiment. It was for his gallantry there that he was promoted
to the senior majorship."

"I shall not forget it." And then I added, "Perhaps the story you have told me will give me
greater patience with our drill-master."

"I trust so, at least," said Washington, with a smile; "else I fear there will be little peace
for you in the army. I was affected by the story, Tom, no less than you have been, but after
I had left the hall, with its glamour of lights and gold lace and brilliant uniforms, I wondered
if this discipline would count amid the forests of the Ohio as it did on the plains of Europe.
I fancy, in the battle that is to come, there will be no question of who shall fire first,
and a regiment which keeps its formation will be a fair mark for the enemy. Do you know, Tom,
my great hope is that the French will send a scouting party of their Indian allies to ambush
us, and that in defeating them, our commander may learn something of the tactics which he must
follow to defeat the French."

As for myself, I confess I shared none of these forebodings, and welcomed the chance to turn
our talk to a more cheerful subject.

"But about yourself?" I questioned. "There is much I wish to know. Until your note reached
me, I had not heard a word from you since you rode away from Mount Vernon with Dinwiddie's
messenger."

His face cleared, and he looked at me with a little smile.

"We went direct to Williamsburg," he said, "where I first met the general, and told him what
I know about the country which he has to cross. He treated me most civilly, despite some whisperings
which went on behind my back, and shortly after sent me a courteous invitation to serve on
his staff. Of course I accepted,--you know how it irked me to remain at home,--but I gave him
at the same time a statement of my reason for quitting the Virginia service,--that I could
not consent to be outranked by every subaltern who held a commission from the king."

I nodded, for the question was not new to me, and had already caused me much heart-burning.
It was not until long afterwards that I saw the general's letter among Mrs. Washington's treasures
at Mount Vernon, but it seems to me worthy of reproduction here. Thus it ran:--

WILLIAMSBURG, 2 March, 1755.

Sir,--The General having been informed that you expressed some desire to make the campaign,
but that you declined it upon some disagreeableness that you thought might arise from the regulations
of command, has ordered me to acquaint you that he will be very glad of your company in his
family, by which all inconveniences of that kind will be obviated.

I shall think myself very happy to form an acquaintance with a person so universally esteemed,
and shall use every opportunity of assuring you how much I am, Sir, your most obedient servant,

ROBERT ORME, Aide-de-Camp.

Had Braddock heeded the advice of the man whom he asked to join his family, the event might
have been different. But I must not anticipate, and I find my hardest task in writing what
is before me is to escape the shadow of the disaster which was to come. At that time, and,
indeed, until the storm burst, few of us had penetration to discern the cloud on the horizon,--Colonel
Washington, Mr. Franklin, and a few others, perhaps, but certainly not I. It is easy to detect
mistakes after the event, and to conduct a campaign on paper, yet few who saw that martial
array of troops, with its flying banners and bright uniforms, would have ordered the advance
differently.

But to return.

"It was not until three days ago," continued Washington, "that I was able to rejoin the general,
and he intrusted me with a message to Colonel Halket, which I delivered this evening. I must
start back to Mount Vernon to-morrow and place my affairs in order, and will then join the
army at Cumberland, whence the start is to be made."

"And what make of man is the general?" I asked.

A cloud settled on Washington's face.

"Why, Tom," he said at last, "I have seen so little of him that I may misjudge him. He is at
least brave and honest, two great things in a commander. As for the rest, it is yet too soon
to judge. But you have told me nothing about your affairs. How did you leave them all at Riverview?"

"I left them well enough," I answered shortly.

Washington glanced keenly at my downcast face, for indeed the memory of what had occurred at
Riverview was not pleasant to me.

"Did you quarrel with your aunt before you came away?" he asked quietly.

"Yes," I said, and stopped. How could I say more?

"I feared it might come to that," he said gravely. "Your position there has been a false one
from the start. And yet I see no way to amend it."

We walked on in silence for some time, each busy with his own thoughts, and mine at least were
not pleasant ones.

"Tom," said Washington suddenly, "what was the quarrel about? Was it about the estate?"

"Oh, no," I answered. "We shall never quarrel about the estate. We have already settled all
that. It was something quite different."

I could not tell him what it was; the secret was not my own.

He looked at me again for a moment, and then, stopping suddenly, wheeled me around to face
him, and caught my hand.

"I think I can guess," he said warmly, "and I wish you every happiness, Tom."

My lips were trembling so I could not thank him, but I think he knew what was in my heart.

CHAPTER III

IN WHICH I INTRODUCE MYSELF

I doubt not that by this time the reader is beginning to wonder who this fellow is that has
claimed his attention, and so, since there is no one else to introduce me, I must needs present
myself.

It so happened that when that stern old lion, Oliver Cromwell, crushed the butterfly named
Charles Stuart at Worcester in the dim dawn of the third day of September, 1651, and utterly
routed the army of that unhappy prince, one Thomas Stewart fell into the hands of the Roundheads,
as, indeed, did near seven thousand others of the Royalist army. Now this Thomas Stewart had
very foolishly left a pretty estate in Kincardine, together with a wife and two sturdy boys,
to march under the banner of the Princeling, as he conceived to be his duty, and after giving
and taking many hard knocks, here he was in the enemy's hands, and Charles Stuart a fugitive.
They had one and all been declared by Parliament rebels and traitors to the Commonwealth, so
the most distinguished of the captives were chosen for examples to the rest, and three of them,
the Earl of Derby among the number, were sent forthwith to the block, where they comported
themselves as brave men should, and laid down their heads right cheerfully.

