Where the elimination of lead is the object aimed at, I am, on the other hand, satisfied of
the utility of adding certain chemicals to the water of the bath. Sulphuric acid has been suggested
and used for this purpose. I can say nothing respecting its usefulness, as I have never tried
it. Indeed, the results with iodide of potassium added to the bath have been so satisfactory,
that I have had no occasion to try any other chemical, although almost any other of the preparations
of iodine would probably answer equally well. The chemical affinity of iodine for lead affords
a ready explanation of its usefulness in this respect. One ounce of iodide of potassium to
each bath appears to me a suitable quantity.

I have had no personal experience with any other cases of chronic metallic intoxication than
those with lead and mercury.

The absorption of morbid deposits (plastic exudations, etc.) can be materially furthered by
adding to a galvanic bath some resolvent—above all, iodine.

I have said above (page 26) that I had found no perceptible benefit from the addition of this
substance to the galvanic bath in cases of rheumatism or gout. The contrary holds good however
with respect to the frequent sequence of these diseases—articular deposits. When the acute,
and to a great extent the subacute symptoms have subsided—and in chronic cases especially,
and the disease has left effusions in various joints, iodine, which when employed in this manner,
appears to have little or no influence on the pain accompanying these complaints, is a powerful
adjuvant in promoting the absorption of the deposits. In chronic synovitis and all other articular
affections accompanied by exudation, the same holds good.

I have no doubt that future advances in this branch of science will develop the utility of
numerous other drugs and chemicals as additions to the galvanic bath.—Before leaving this subject
I must call attention to the influence which the addition to the bath of certain substances
has on the conductivity of the water, resp. thus: the action of the current on the patient.
I have found that when I caused salt or bicarbonate of soda to be added to the bath, the conductivity
of the water became so much increased, so disproportionately greater than that of the body,
as to render necessary the employment of very powerful currents in order to cause the patient
to feel them.

    Footnotes:

    [Footnote 2: “Medical and Surgical Electricity.” New York. 1875.
    Wm. Wood & Co. pp. 431 and 432.]

    [Footnote 3: For some experiments concerning the cataphoric
    effects of the galvanic current, see an article by MUNK,
    entitled “Ueber die galvanische Einführung differenter
    Flüssigkeiten in den unversehrten lebenden Organismus,” in the
    Allgemeine Medicinsche Central-Zeitung, No. 16, 1875.]

                             CHAPTER III.

                        PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECTS.

In accordance with the plan of the present work, the remarks I shall offer under this head
are by no means intended to comprise all that is known at the present day of the physiological
effects of electricity in general. It was my purpose when I undertook to write these pages,
to offer to the profession a book confined to one subject; not a compilation, but a volume
made up almost if not wholly of original matter, chiefly, if not entirely the result of my
own observations and experience. For the general physiological effects then of electricity
as well as for the theories of its action, I refer those interested to the many excellent works
on the subject that have appeared within the last few years. I will treat here only of the
physiological effects peculiar to the electric bath.

The daily observations that I have had the opportunity of making in this respect, extending
as they do over a period of upwards of two years, have not been as fruitful of results as might
be expected. This is due mainly to the circumstance that but a small percentage—and these took
the baths merely as a refreshing tonic—of those whom I have had the opportunity of observing,
were in a condition that might be called normal. By far the greater majority were suffering
from some complaint, in most instances of a neurotic or rheumatic nature, the presence of which,
while it afforded admirable opportunity for observing therapeutic results, modified more or
less the physiological effects of the baths, and served to deprive them of a uniformity which
might to a great extent justly be looked for in healthy organisms. If, therefore, what I now
contribute to the physiology of the subject is but little, it will I trust be at least found
of practical utility in its applicability to the therapeutics of the subject.

Before entering into details, it is necessary in the first place to inquire in what respects
electric baths differ from other methods of electrization—especially those recently introduced
as “general”—that their physiological effects should merit individual consideration. They differ
in two ways. One of these is self-evident. To the effects of electricity are superadded those
of the warm bath. The effects of the warm bath per se are too familiar to every physician to
require comment. Its effects in combination with electricity, however, may not be so generally
known; and I therefore feel justified in quoting here a passage that bears directly on the
subject, from a recent German work by Dr. Hartmann[4] of Wiesbaden.

    “The last question, whether mineral water acts also by contact
    with the skin, leads us to one of its most important
    effects—that through electricity.

    “Although this question has not as yet been finally disposed of,
    we have still advanced far toward its solution, through the
    admirable researches of HEYMANN and KREBS. Both observers have
    furnished proof that the contact of the water of the bath[5]
    with the human body gives rise to electric currents, which
    currents must be looked upon as being the excitors of the
    nerve-currents, the body acting merely as a conductor. From
    these experiments we conclude that no particular difference
    obtains between artificial and transported waters on the one,
    and natural waters on the other hand, the assertions of
    SCOUTETTENS notwithstanding, who in regard to electricity
    claimed to have found a difference between the artificial and
    transported waters and the natural ones.

    “We gather moreover from the experiments, that the electric
    current generated through the contact of the body with the water
    of the bath is modified chiefly by the gases, next by the
    temperature of the water, and lastly only by its salts.

    “The effects of the bath depend on the strength of the electric
    current generated and on the condition of the peripheral endings
    of the nerves; the effect may be stimulating or soothing. The
    strength of the current is governed, as we have seen, by the
    quantity of gases present, the temperature and the salts.
    Ordinary lukewarm baths, indifferent baths containing a small
    amount of gases, are less stimulating than mineral baths
    containing a larger proportion of gases.

    “With regard to the relative condition of the peripheral
    nerve-ends, experiments on the motor nerves go to show that
    swelling of the terminal ends of these nerves may diminish their
    excitability to the point of its complete extinction, while it
    becomes increased by their exsiccation. This fact as to the
    motor nerves is adopted by HEYMANN likewise as applying to the
    nerves of sensation. If, now, we presuppose absorption or even
    imbibition on the part of the skin, a swelling of the nerve-ends
    is comprehensible, as the imbibed fluid reaches them. But,
    according to HEYMANN, the peripheral nerve-ends, i.e., the
    terminal bulbs of KRAUSE, of the sensory nerves, and the tactile
    corpuscles of MEISSNER, become even without this presupposition
    sufficiently impregnated with water while in the bath, because
    here all insensible perspiration must cease, and in a bath of a
    temperature lower than blood-heat transpiration cannot take
    place, so that all transudation to the skin being retained
    during the bath, those termini are surrounded by moisture and
    therefore swell up.

    “From this the writer concludes with regard to the effects of
    the baths, that all baths in which the electric current produced
    by contact of the water with the body preponderates over the
    swelling of the nerve-ends, have a stimulant effect, while
    those baths where the swelling preponderates over the electric
    current, act as a sedative.

    “Taking a brief and comprehensive review therefore of the
    effects of mineral water baths, we have those resulting from the
    temperature, from the contents of carbonic acid and salts, and
    lastly from the electric current generated in the bath water;
    each effect however resolving itself into an excitation of the
    peripheral nerve-ends, which leads in a reflex manner to an
    enhancement of the change of matter.”

From the foregoing quotation may be realized the importance which is attached to the electric
current in the warm bath. And here let me ask the question: May not the remedial superiority,
in many cases, of the mineral water bath over the ordinary warm bath be due mainly, if not
solely, to the more abundant generation in the former of electricity? Or rather, is it not
very likely that this is so? And if such is the case, it would appear evident that the mineral
water bath, the electric properties of which, depending on the chemical changes going on between
the gases and salts of the water on the one, and the cutaneous secretions and other constituents
of the body on the other hand, are to a great extent beyond our control, must in turn be vastly
inferior to a bath where the electric current is under our perfect control, and can be modified
in intensity, direction and quantity to meet the individual requirements of every case. And
such is the electric bath I am now describing.

The second difference between the electric bath and all other methods of applying electricity
is, that the bath is the only method by means of which general electrization can be realized.
In making a distinction in this respect, it becomes necessary for me to advert more especially
to a method first introduced to the profession in a systematized and scientific manner by Drs.
BEARD and ROCKWELL,[6] and termed by them “General Faradization.” The undoubted good results
that have been obtained from this method—for the details of which I refer the reader to the
latest work of the authors[7]—have caused it to be extensively adopted by the medical profession,
both here and in Europe. It is, however, not with its results that I have to do at present,
but with its appellation and true nature. General faradization, so-called, consists of a series
of local faradizations, administered during one and the same séance, until the current has
alternately been made to impinge upon and traverse the entire or at least a large portion of
the body. This cumulative procedure, it is true, approaches general electrization, as represented
by the electric bath, more closely than any of the other local methods; yet it is not that
which its name would imply, and I do not think it requires argument to make it apparent, that
even this procedure differs vastly from the electric (whether galvanic or faradic) bath, where
the current at one and the same time impinges directly on every peripheral nerve-end (excepting
those of the head and face) and traverses every part of the body, obtaining—both as to reflex
and direct effects—as a whole that which the method known as general faradization seeks to
obtain by the cumulation of fractional portions.

Having thus, I trust, established the individuality of the bath as an electric method, I will
without further digression proceed to the consideration of its physiological effects.

The physiological effects of the electric bath may be qualified on the one hand as either “immediate,”
or “remote,” on the other as either “transient” or “permanent.” Strictly to classify these
is impracticable, and I will therefore be influenced in the order of their enumeration principally
by their importance in a therapeutic respect.

One of the most pronounced as well as uniform, and at the same time most important, effects
of the electric bath, is its property as an

                               HYPNOTIC.

This somniferous influence, which is to some extent exercised by local electrization, is here
distinguished by its far greater constancy as well as by its greater degree of perfection.
That this difference should exist, appears quite natural, when it is considered that the same
topical influences which produce it in local electrizations, and which I shall presently endeavor
to analyze, are here brought to bear on the entire system. The hypnotic effect is both immediate
and remote, and more or less permanent. When there is an immediate inclination to sleep, which
may make itself manifest during the bath or immediately after this, it is generally accompanied
by a

                      PLEASANT SENSE OF FATIGUE,

which cannot be likened to weariness, but rather to what we feel after moderate exercise; it
is only in some instances, where an individual takes his first bath, or where, for therapeutic
reasons, a strong faradic current—accompanied by responsive muscular contractions—is employed,
that this feeling is intensified sufficiently to become unpleasant, calling for rest and recuperation,
and must here be looked upon as analogous to the effects of severe exercise. It invariably
disappears after a brief rest.

Experience and good judgment will enable us moreover in almost all cases to avoid effects of
this kind. The immediate inclination to sleep is much more decided as well as constant when
the bath is taken late in the day, than when taken in the forenoon. When the latter is the
case however, the individual will as a rule become sleepy during the afternoon, or else at
an earlier hour than usual in the evening, and sleep more soundly during the night. This is
the effect of one bath. A series of baths will however produce more or less marked and permanent
improvement in the sleep of individuals, where this has been below the normal standard. And
this is among the most invariable of the effects of the electric bath, whether galvanic or faradic.

I have formed a theory as to the rationale of this influence, which I will offer as its probable
explanation. We all know that sleep is a process designed by nature for the recuperation of
the system after a certain period of activity. In other words, when the various functions have
been more or less exercised for their daily allotted time—say seventeen hours—the respective
organs need that profound rest which we know as sleep. Now, it is pretty well conceded by physiologists,
that electricity stimulates the secretory as well as excretory organs; that it furthers endosmosis
and exosmosis—by its electrolytic influence in a physical, by its influence on the nervous
system in a catalytic manner, in short, and by virtue of these properties, that it greatly

                     ENHANCES THE CHANGE OF MATTER

and incites the various organs to so great an activity as to cause them to perform in a comparatively
brief space of time—say an hour, the work of several hours. The natural sequence is obvious:
The want of rest—of sleep, is felt at a correspondingly earlier period. I offer this as a probable
explanation of the immediate or almost immediate disposition to sleep. As to the permanent
improvement in sleep, where this has been below the normal standard, it must always be due
to the removal of some morbid condition, and thus belongs among therapeutic results, rather
than physiological effects. It is true that in many instances of agrypnia we are unable to
discover any pathological condition that would account for this symptom; but the probability
is that here there is a sluggishness of some one or more of the functions, mental or physical,
too obscurely manifested to be discovered by our present means of diagnosis, yet reached and
rectified by a mode of electrization that traverses and permeates every portion of the body.

If this explanation of the hypnotic effect of the electric bath be not the true one, it is
at least—so far as I know—the first attempt at accounting for a phenomenon that has been noticed
as a result of even local applications of electricity by many observers, and about the pretty
uniform occurrence of which there can be no doubt.

With respect to the effect on the

                        TEMPERATURE AND PULSE,

I have made a number of observations, of which I have recorded twenty-two, made on persons
where both were at or nearly at the normal standard. With regard to the frequency of the pulse,
the results were conflicting and by no means reliable. In the majority of cases there was an
increase, immediately after the bath, ranging from four to eighteen beats per minute. In others
there was no change whatever, and in a few there was an absolute diminution in frequency; this
last I believe however to be a therapeutic rather than physiological effect, manifesting itself
only where there is pneumogastric asthenia, and attributable directly to electric stimulation
of this nerve. Thus in one instance, which occurred in the person of a physician of this city,
who had an intermittent pulse, the result was as follows: Immediately before bath: pulse 70,
two intermissions; at the expiration of 15 minutes, during which he was under the influence
of a descending galvanic current: pulse 65, two intermissions; at the end of ten more minutes,
during which he received the faradic current: pulse 65, no intermissions; ten minutes after
leaving the bath: pulse 66, no intermissions. As a rule then, we may look for an immediate
and more or less transient moderate increase in frequency of the pulse. As for any permanent
increase or reduction of the pulse, there is none as a physiological effect. Where such an
one does take place, it is by the removal of some morbid influence on the heart, and must be
looked upon as a therapeutic result.

With respect to the temperature, the results were somewhat more uniform. I have found that
where this is either normal or slightly below, the immediate but transient effect is to raise
it from 2 to 6 tenths of a degree (Fahrenheit)—in most instances 4 tenths. In a very few cases
it remained unchanged, and in one case, where before the bath the temperature was 100, at the
close of the bath it was 99-3/5. Of permanent modifications of the temperature, the same holds
good that I have said of permanent changes in the pulse. It must not be forgotten that the
temperature of the water is undoubtedly an important factor in modifying the temperature of
the body. In almost all instances where my observations were made, the temperature of the water
was below that of the body, being 95° or a little less. This, which has a tendency to lower
the bodily temperature, is to some extent counterbalanced by the suppression of the insensible
perspiration, so that modifications of temperature resulting from electric baths, the water
of which is but few degrees below 98½°, may justly be attributed to the influence of the electric
current. The importance of the electric bath as a

                   PHYSIOLOGICAL STIMULANT AND TONIC

cannot be overrated. I deem it superior in this respect to any other known agent. This effect
manifests itself immediately by a feeling of exhilaration and unwonted vigor, remotely by an
improvement—where there is a margin for such—in the performance of some or all of the physiological
functions, as well as by a gradual but nevertheless marked increase in weight.

Most striking among the tonic influences of the baths, are those that occur within the sphere
of the digestive and sexual apparatuses. I will first consider the effects on

                       THE DIGESTIVE APPARATUS,

which may be subdivided into those on a) the appetite, b) digestion, absorption and assimilation,
and c) alvine excretion. The improvement of the appetite under electro-balneological treatment
is one of the most constant effects of this. While a series of baths will produce permanent
results in this respect, an increase of the appetite, in some instances amounting to positive
hunger, is a tolerably uniform and more or less immediate result of each separate bath. The
permanent improvement of the appetite is relative. Not very appreciable where this is normal,
it becomes most marked where the appetite has from some cause been impaired. The effect on
the appetite is definite. The effects on absorption and assimilation are presumptive; but when
we couple the absence of any corresponding difficulty in digesting the increased supply of
food, with the increase before alluded to in the weight of the body, their assumption becomes
fully justifiable. It is these combined influences that make the electric bath so valuable
a remedy in almost all forms of dyspepsia.

The influence on the alvine process is if anything even more marked than that on the assimilative
process. Where the action of the bowels is normal, it is not modified permanently by the electric
bath, although we often have, as an immediate consequence, a cathartic effect that manifests
itself as a more or less watery evacuation, either a few hours after the bath or on the succeeding
day. Where the fecal process however is sluggish, the improvement resulting from the baths
is very striking. I shall recur more fully to this subject under the head of constipation.

The effects on the various functions connected with digestion are due doubtless to the combined
influences of stimulation of the secretions of the alimentary canal and stimulation of the
muscular coats of the stomach and intestines, as well as permanent tonization of the muscularis.
While the enhancement of the secretions is undoubtedly due chiefly to the electric stimulus
to the secreto-motor nerves, and the increased activity of the muscular coats to a like influence
transmitted to their motor nerves, I believe the permanent tonization and invigoration of the
muscular fibres to be mainly attributable to the direct trophic influence of the current traversing
the parts themselves; and I have no doubt that this direct influence has much to do with the
stimulation of the secretions and peristalsis also. At any rate, I have never obtained from
galvanization of the nervous centres, which I have practiced in a great number of cases, the
striking effects on the alimentary processes which are so uniform a result of the baths.

The influence on the

                           SEXUAL APPARATUS

of the electric bath does not manifest itself in so striking a manner as in the case of the
organs of digestion. It is true I have seen individuals whose sexual functions were normal,
have stysis in the bath, but the mere cutaneous irritation of the electric current is here
sufficient to account for a phenomenon which, where sexual irritability is intact, will follow
any other local irritations.

If not as immediately perceptible, the stimulant and permanent tonic and invigorating influences
on the sexual organs are not much less constant than the corresponding influences on digestion.
Careful observation, however, of a considerable number of cases where the sexual function was
more or less impaired, has convinced me that while there can be no doubt that direct influence
on the innervation, tone and nutrition of the respective parts as well as the stimulus which
the electric current furnishes to the seminal secretion, bear a share in the improvement that
takes place, permanent beneficial results must be looked upon as chiefly the expression of
improved nutrition and tonization of the system at large. I do not mean to be understood as
wishing to put in negation the beneficial results that the local influence of electricity is
capable of sometimes accomplishing in the sexual sphere. These results, however, are not of
a physiological, but rather of a purely therapeutic nature, and are obtained there only where
local morbid conditions exist. Now, in the great majority of the cases that have come under
my observation, the causes of deterioration of the sexual capacity, though frequently obscure
and indefinable, were certainly not local, but to be sought for in the general—most probably
the nervous—system. In none but perhaps the very mildest and recent cases have I ever seen
rapid results follow electrical treatment of any kind whatsoever. In support of my assertion
however that in the majority of cases the sexual sphere can be influenced only through the
system at large, I will state first, that I have seen cases where local electrical treatment
had utterly failed to do the slightest good, respond favorably to the baths, and second, that
where success was met with, it was only after persistent treatment, continued long enough to
modify favorably the condition of the entire organism, and through this the objective sphere.

The stimulant and tonic effects under consideration, although shared to some extent by other
methods of electrization, are here far more comprehensive and pronounced, a fact which is not
surprising, when we reflect that in the electric bath not only are all the organs indirectly
influenced through stimulation of the nervous centres, but each separate organ is at the same
time directly acted upon by the current.

A direct sequence of the stimulant and tonic effects of the electric bath is its

                          SEDATIVE INFLUENCE.

This sedative effect, whereof the hypnotic effect already spoken of is the supreme manifestation,
must not be associated for a moment with any idea of depression, for here we have none such.
In addition to what I have already said in endeavoring to account for the hypnotic influence
of the baths, I refer the reader for further information to the admirable and lucid remarks
on this subject by BEARD and ROCKWELL.[8]

The galvanic bath shares with other galvanic applications made in the cranial and upper spinal
region, the effect of producing the galvanic taste, as also the flashes when the current is
interrupted, showing that the

                            CRANIAL NERVES

come within the sphere of its influence.

A further effect peculiar to the galvanic bath is a sense of

                               ITCHING,

felt chiefly in the lower extremities and about the neck, and proportioned to the intensity
of the current. Rather pleasant when mild or medium currents are used, under the influence
of strong currents it may become so intense as to create an irresistible desire on the part
of the bather to scratch especially the legs.

A negative effect of the galvanic bath, even where very intense currents are used, is the

                      ABSOLUTE FREEDOM FROM PAIN

throughout the entire process. I wish this to be understood of course as holding good only
when currents within the ordinary limits of intensity are employed. The strongest that I have
used, and on which I base my statement, was that from 48 Stöhrer or 60 Hill cells. As stronger
currents are not required for therapeutic purposes, what I have asserted remains practically
true as applied within these limits.

This absence of pain, which cannot be claimed for correspondingly intense local applications,
is to be attributed to the diffusion of the current throughout the body and its surface, as
well as through the water of the bath. The redness of the entire back after a galvanic bath,
is among the proofs of this diffusion.

Freedom from pain is a characteristic likewise of the faradic bath, properly administered.
When too strong a faradic current however is incautiously administered, the resulting muscular
contractions are accompanied by an amount of local pain proportioned to the violence of the
contractions. By keeping the faradic current within proper limits, all pain can be avoided.

With respect to

                        MUSCULAR CONTRACTIONS,

the effects of the electric bath may be distinguished from those obtained by other modes of
faradization by their comprehensiveness. Many groups of muscles may be made simultaneously
to contract by this means. The practical bearing of this on the therapeutics of pareses and
paralyses, renders it an important characteristic of the bath.

The physiological effects on

                               THE MIND

of electric baths, is a natural result of the enhanced tone and vigor of the physical system,
and keeps pace with this. Mental buoyancy and even exhilaration are among the most common sequences
of electric baths. Although indirect, these results are none the less decided.

It has been my aim in the foregoing remarks to give the reader, as concisely as possible and
within the limits which I set for myself in the beginning of the present chapter, a summary
of the more important physiological effects of electric baths. As the isolated results of observations
made in a limited field by one unaided individual, I trust the shortcomings of this chapter
will be viewed indulgently. If what I have said of the physiological effects of electric baths
proves the means of stimulating to further investigation more competent observers than myself,
my labor, whatever its imperfections, will not have been in vain.

    Footnotes:

    [Footnote 4: Dr. Franz Hartmann; “Der acute and chronische
    Gelenkrheumatismus,” Erlangen, 1874; pp. 194 et seq.]

    [Footnote 5: The Author here refers to mineral-water. Dr. S.]

    [Footnote 6: The Medical Use of Electricity, with special
    reference to general electrization as a tonic, etc. New York,
    1867.]

    [Footnote 7: Beard and Rockwell; Medical and Surgical
    Electricity. N. Y. 1875.]

    [Footnote 8: Op. cit. pp. 253. et seq.]

                              CHAPTER IV.

                 GENERAL THERAPEUTIC EFFECTS AND USES.

The therapeutic uses of a remedy are based on what we know of its physiological effects. Many—or
rather most—of the therapeutic effects of this as well as of most other remedies, correspond
to certain physiological effects. Those therapeutic effects whereto we find none analogous
among the physiological effects, are yet the results of the physiological tendencies of the
remedy, and where these tendencies do not manifest themselves as results, it is because they
find no field for action in the healthy organism. When they meet with the requisite pathological
conditions, these tendencies make themselves manifest in the shape of definite results, commonly
known as therapeutic effects.

