So far as Ireland is concerned the public mind is occupied at the moment of my writing with
the question of "reprisals." Various efforts have been made to bring about peace. They have
failed because, in my view, they have been reluctant to recognise and make allowance for certain
essential facts. The whole blame for the existing state of civil war--for, repudiate it as
the Government may, such it undoubtedly is--is thrown on the shoulders of the Irish Republican
Army by those who take their ethical standard from Sir Hamar Greenwood. It is forgotten that
for two or three years before the attacks on the Royal Irish Constabulary began there were
no murders, no assassinations and no civil war in Ireland. There was, however, a campaign of
gross provocation by Dublin Castle for two reasons: (1) by way of vengeance for their defeat
on the Conscription issue; (2) as a retaliation on Sinn Fein, because it had succeeded in peacefully
supplanting English rule by a system of Volunteer Police, Sinn Fein Courts, Sinn Fein Local
Government, etc. The only pretext on which this provocation was pursued was on account of a
mythical "German plot," which Lord Wimbourne never heard of, which Sir Bryan Mahon, Commander-in-Chief,
told Lord French he flatly disbelieved in, and which, when, after more than two years, the
documents are produced, proves to be a stale rehash of negotiations before the Easter Week
Rising, with some sham "German Irish Society" in Berlin. On this pretext the Sinn Fein leaders,
Messrs de Valera and Griffith (whom there is not a shadow of proof to connect with the German
plot), were arrested and deported, with many hundreds of the most responsible leaders. Furthermore,
an endless series of prosecutions were instituted and savage sentences imposed for the most
paltry charges-such as drilling, wearing uniform, singing The Soldiers' Song, having portraits
of Rebel leaders, taking part in the Arbitration Courts which had superseded the Petty Sessions
Courts, and such like. All this, with suppression of newspapers and of all public meetings,
went on for many months before Sinn Fein, deprived of its leaders, was goaded at last into
attacking the Royal Irish Constabulary. Whatever the juridical status of the guerrilla warfare
thus entered upon (which it is not improbable England would have applauded if employed against
any other Empire than her own), it was conducted on honourable lines by the Sinn Feiners. The
policemen and soldiers, including General Lewis, who surrendered, were treated with courtesy,
and not one of them wounded or insulted. Their wives and children were also carefully preserved
from danger until the police "reprisals" in the Thurles neighbourhood--the wrecking of villages
and the savage murders of young men--ended by producing equally ruthless "reprisals" on the
other side. In Dublin, since the Dublin Metropolitan Police declined to go about armed, not
one of them has been fired upon.

The real ferocity on both sides began when the "Black and Tans" were imported to take the place
of the R.I.C., who were resigning in batches. It is indisputable--independent investigation
by the Committee of the British Labour Party and the daily messages of fearless British journalists,
such as Mr Hugh Martin, establish it beyond possibility of contradiction--that when the "Black
and Tans" were let loose on the Irish people they began a villainous campaign of cowardly murder,
arson, robbery and drunken outrage, which should have made all decent Englishmen and Englishwomen
shudder for the deeds committed in their name. Whenever the particulars are fully disclosed
they will, I venture to say, horrify every honest man in the Empire. Not the least disgraceful
feature of this black business was the manner in which the Chief Secretary sought to brazen
things out and the audacious lies that he fathered, such as that Lord Mayor M'Curtain was murdered
by the Sinn Feiners, that it was Sinn Feiners who raided the Bishop of Killaloe's house at
midnight and searched for him (unquestionably with intent to shoot him), that it was the Sinn
Feiners who burned down the City Hall, Public Library and the principal streets of Cork, etc.

And then the utter failure of all this "frightfulness"! Several months ago Sir Hamar Greenwood
declared that Sinn Fein was on the run, and the Prime Minister declared they had "murder by
the throat," the fact being that the young men they sought to terrorise were made more resolute
in their defiance of the Government. The only people at all terrorised were the invalids, the
nuns whose cloisters were violated by night, the women and children whose homes were invaded
at night by miscreants masquerading in the British uniform, maddened with drink and uttering
the filthiest obscenities. And does England take account of what all this is going to mean
to her--that the young generation will grow up with never-to-be-forgotten memories of these
atrocities, while the thousands of young men herded together in the internment camps and convict
prisons are being manufactured into life-long enemies of the Empire? Might not Englishmen pause
and ask themselves whether it is worth it all, apart from other considerations, to implant
this legacy of bitter hatred in Irish breasts?

Let it be admitted that since the Government have been shamed into dropping their denials of
"reprisals" and taken them in hand themselves the military destruction has at least been carried
on with some show of reluctance and humanity by the regular army, but it cannot be too strongly
emphasised that the disbandment and deportation of "the Black and Tans" is the first condition
of any return to civilised warfare or to any respect for the good name of England or her army.

If I were asked to state some of the essentials of peace I would say it must depend first of
all on the re-establishment of a belief in the good faith of England. This belief, and for
the reasons which I have attempted to outline in the preceding chapters, has been shattered
into fragments. There is a strong feeling in Ireland that the Prime Minister's recent peace
"explorations" are not honestly meant--that they are intended to rouse the "sane and moderate"
elements in opposition to Sinn Fein. Whilst this feeling exists no real headway can be made
by those who seek a genuine peace along rational and reasoned lines. The Prime Minister must
be aware that when he professes his readiness to meet those who can "deliver the goods" he
is talking rhetorical rubbish. "Delivering the goods" is not a matter for Irishmen, but for
British politicians, who have spent the last twenty years cheating Ireland of the "goods" of
Home Rule, which they had solemnly covenanted again and again to "deliver."

Mr Lloyd George's conditions for a meeting with "Dail Eireann" are so impossible that one wonders
he took the trouble to state them--viz. (1) that "Dail Eireann" must give up to be tried (and
we presume hanged) a certain unspecified number of their own colleagues; (2) that they must
recant their Republicanism and proclaim their allegiance to the Empire; (3) that negotiations
must proceed on the basis of the Partition Act and the surrender of one-fourth of their country
to the new Orange ascendancy.

