There was a little more talk, but a little was enough for Philip's feeble voice, and Guy soon
told him he was tired, and ordered in his broth. He begged that Amy would stay, and it was
permitted on condition that he would not talk, Guy even cutting short a quotation of,--'As
Juno had been sick and he her dieter,'--appropriate to the excellence of the broths, which
Amabel and her maid, thanks to their experience of Charles's fastidious tastes, managed to
devise and execute, in spite of bad materials. It was no small merit in Guy to stop the compliment,
considering how edified he had been by his wife's unexpected ingenuity, and what a comical
account he had written of it to her mother, such, as Amy told him, deserved to be published
in a book of good advice to young ladies, to show what they might come to if they behaved well.
However, she was glad to have ocular demonstration of the success of the cookery, which she
had feared might turn out uneatable; and her gentle feelings towards Philip were touched, by
seeing one wont to be full of independence and self-assertion, now meek and helpless, requiring
to be lifted, and propped up with pillows, and depending entirely and thankfully upon Guy.

When he had been settled and made comfortable, they read the service; and she thought her husband's
tones had never been so sweet as now, modulated to the pitch best suited to the sickroom, and
with the peculiarly beautiful expression he always gave such reading. Last week, I could not
bear any one else to speak at all; and even now, no one else could have read so that I could
like it.'

'Your voice; yes,' said Amy, after they had returned to their own sitting-room. 'I want to
hear it very much. I wonder when you will sing to me again.'

'Not till he has recovered strength to bear the infliction with firmness,' said Guy; 'but,
Amy, I'll tell you what we will do, if you are sure it is good for you. He will have a good
long sleep, and we will have a walk on the green hillocks.'

Accordingly they wandered in the cool of the evening on the grassy slopes under the chestnut-trees,
making it a Sunday walk, calm, bright and meditative, without many words, but those deep and
grave, 'such as their walks had been before they were married,' as Amabel said.

'Better,' he answered.

A silence, broken by her asking, 'Do you recollect your melancholy definition of happiness,
years ago?'

'What was it?'

'Gleams from another world, too soon eclipsed or forfeited. It made me sad then. Do you hold
to it now?'

'Don't you?'

'I want to know what you would say now?'

'Gleams from another world, brightening as it gets nearer.'

Amabel repeated--

       Ever the richest, tenderest glow,
       Sets round the autumnal sun;
       But their sight fails, no heart may know
       The bliss when life is done.

'Old age,' she added; 'that seems very far off.'

'Each day is a step,' he answered, and then came a silence while both were thinking deeply.

They sat down to rest under a tree, the mountains before them with heavy dark clouds hanging
on their sides, and the white crowns clear against the blue sky, a perfect stillness on all
around, and the red glow of an Italian sunset just fading away.

'There is only one thing wanting,' said Amy. 'You may sing now. You are far from Philip's hearing.
Suppose we chant this afternoon's psalms.'

It was the fifth day of the month, and the psalms seemed especially suitable to their thoughts.
Before the 29th was finished, it was beginning to grow dark. There were a few pale flashes
of lightning in the mountains, and at the words 'The voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness,'
a low but solemn peal of thunder came as an accompaniment.

'The Lord shall give his people the blessing of peace.'

The full sweet melody died away, but the echo caught it up and answered like the chant of a
spirit in the distance--'The blessing of peace.'

The effect was too solemn and mysterious to be disturbed by word or remark. Guy drew her arm
into his, and they turned homewards.

They had some distance to walk, and night had closed in before they reached the village, but
was only more lovely. The thunder rolled solemnly among the hills, but the young moon shone
in marvellous whiteness on the snowy crowns, casting fantastic shadows from the crags, while
whole showers of fire-flies were falling on them from the trees, floating and glancing in the
shade.

'It is a pity to go in,' said Amy. But Arnaud did not seem to be of the same opinion: he came
out to meet them very anxiously, expostulating on the dangers of the autumnal dew; and Guy
owned that though it had been the most wonderful and delightful evening he had ever known,
he was rather fatigued.

CHAPTER 33

     From darkness here and dreariness,
     We ask not full repose.
                        --CHRISTIAN YEAR

It seemed as if the fatigue which Guy had undergone was going to make itself felt at last,
for he had a slight headache the next morning, and seemed dull and weary. Both he and Amabel
sat for some time with Philip, and when she went away to write her letters, Philip began discussing
a plan which had occurred to him of offering himself as chief of the constabulary force in
the county where Redclyffe was situated. It was an office which would suit him very well, and
opened a new hope of his marriage, and he proceeded to reckon on Lord Thorndale's interest,
counting up all the magistrates he knew, and talking them over with Guy, who, however, did
not know enough of his own neighbourhood to be of much use; and when he came up-stairs a little
after, said he was vexed at having been so stupid. He was afraid he had seemed unkind and indifferent.
But the truth was that he was so heavy and drowsy, that he had actually fallen twice into a
doze while Philip was talking.

'Of course,' said Amy, 'gentle sleep will take her revenge at last for your calling her a popular
delusion. Lie down, let her have her own way, and you will be good for something by and by.'

He took her advice, slept for a couple of hours, and awoke a good deal refreshed, so that though
his head still ached, he was able to attend as usual to Philip in the evening.

He did not waken the next morning till so late, that he sprung up in consternation, and began
to dress in haste to go to Philip; but presently he came back from his dressing-room with a
hasty uncertain step, and threw himself down on the bed. Amabel came to his side in an instant,
much frightened at his paleness, but he spoke directly. 'Only a fit of giddiness--it is going
off;' and he raised himself, but was obliged to lie down again directly.

'You had better keep quiet' said she. 'Is it your headache?'

'It is aching,' said Guy, and she put her hand over it.

'How hot and throbbing!' said she. 'You must have caught cold in that walk. No, don't try to
move; it is only making it worse.'

'I must go to Philip,' he answered, starting up; but this brought on such a sensation of dizziness
and faintness, that he sunk back on the pillow.

'No; it is of no use to fight against it,' said Amy, as soon as he was a little better. 'Never
mind Philip, I'll go to him. You must keep quiet, and I will get you a cup of hot tea.'

As he lay still, she had the comfort of seeing him somewhat revived, but he listened to her
persuasions not to attempt to move. It was later than she had expected, and she found that
breakfast was laid out in the next room. She brought him some tea; but he did not seem inclined
to lift his head to drink it; and begged her to go at once to Philip, fearing he must be thinking
himself strangely forgotten, and giving her many directions about the way he liked to be waited
on at breakfast.

Very much surprised was Philip to see her instead, of her husband, and greatly concerned to
hear that Guy was not well.

'Over-fatigue,' said he. 'He could not but feel the effects of such long-continued exertion.'
Then, after an interval, during which he had begun breakfast, with many apologies for letting
her wait on him, he said, with some breaks, 'Never was there such a nurse as he, Amy; I have
felt much more than I can express, especially now. You will never have to complain of my harsh
judgment again!'

'It is too much for you to talk of these things,' said Amabel, moved by the trembling of his
feeble voice, but too anxious to return to her husband to like to wait even to hear that Philip's
opinion had altered. It required much self-command not to hurry, even by manner, her cousin's
tardy, languid movements; but she had been well trained by Charles in waiting on sick breakfasts.

When at length she was able to escape, she found that Guy had undressed, and gone to bed again.
He said he was more comfortable, and desired her to go and take her own breakfast before coming
back to him, and she obeyed as well as she could, but very soon was again with him. He looked
flushed and oppressed, and when she put her cool hand across his forehead, she was frightened
at the increased throbbing of his temples.

'Amy,' said he, looking steadily at her, 'this is the fever.'

Without answering, she drew his hand into hers, and felt his pulse, which did indeed plainly
respond fever. Each knew that the other was recollecting what he had said, on Sunday, of the
doctor's prediction, and Amy knew he was thinking of death; but all that passed was a proposal
to send at once for the French physician. Amabel wrote her note with steadiness, derived from
the very force of the shock. She could not think; she did not know whether she feared or hoped.
To act from one moment to another was all she attempted, and it was well that her imagination
did not open to be appalled at her own situation--so young, alone with the charge of two sick
men in a foreign country; her cousin, indeed, recovering, but helpless, and not even in a state
to afford her counsel; her husband sickening for this frightful fever, and with more than ordinary
cause for apprehension, even without the doctor's prophecy, when she thought of his slight
frame, and excitable temperament, and that though never as yet tried by a day's illness, he
certainly had more spirit than strength, while all the fatigue he had been undergoing was likely
to tell upon him now. She did not look forward, she did not look round; she did not hope or
fear; she trusted, and did her best for each, as she was wanted, trying not to make herself
useless to both, by showing that she wished to be in two places at once.

It was a day sufficiently distressing in itself had there been no further apprehension, for
there was the restlessness of illness, working on a character too active and energetic to acquiesce
without a trial in the certainty that there was no remedy for present discomfort. There was
no impatience nor rebellion against the illness itself, but a wish to try one after another
the things that had been effective in relieving Philip during his recovery. At the same time,
he could not bear that Amabel should do anything to tire herself, and was very anxious that
Philip should not be neglected. He tossed from one side to the other in burning oppression
or cold chills; Amy saw him looking wistful, suggested something by way of alleviation, then
found he had been wishing for it, but refraining from asking in order to spare her, and that
he was sorry when she procured it. Again and again this happened; she smoothed the coverings,
and shook up the pillow: he would thank her, look at her anxiously, beg her not to exert herself,
but soon grew restless, and the whole was repeated.

At last, as she was trying to arrange the coverings, he exclaimed,--

'I see how it is. This is impatience. Now, I will not stir for an hour,' and as he made the
resolution, he smiled at treating himself so like a child. His power of self-restraint came
to his aid, and long before the hour was over he had fallen asleep.

This was a relief; yet that oppressed, flushed, discomposed slumber, and heavy breathing only
confirmed her fears that the fever had gained full possession of him. She had not the heart
to write such tidings, at least till the physician should have made them too certain, nor could
she even bear to use the word 'feverish,' in her answers to the anxious inquiries Philip made
whenever she went into his room, though when he averted his face with a heavy sigh, she knew
his conclusion was the same as her own.

The opinion of the physician was the only thing wanting to bring home the certainty, and that
fell on her like lead in the evening; with one comfort, however, that he thought it a less
severe case than the former one. It was a great relief, too, that there was no wandering of
mind, only the extreme drowsiness and oppression; and when Guy was roused by the doctor's visit,
he was as clear and collected as possible, making inquiries and remarks, and speaking in a
particularly calm and quiet manner. As soon as the doctor was gone, he looked up to Amabel,
saying, with his own smile, only very dim,--

'It would be of no use, and it would not be true, to say I had rather you did not nurse me.
The doctor hopes there is not much danger of infection, and it is too late for precautions.'

'I am very glad,' said Amy.

'But you must be wise, and not hurt yourself. Will you promise me not to sit up?'

'It is very kind of you to tell me nothing worse,' said she, with a sad submissiveness.

He smiled again. 'I am very sorry for you,' he said, looking very tenderly at her. 'To have
us both on your hands at once! But it comes straight from Heaven, that is one comfort, and
you made up your mind to such things when you took me.'

Sadness in his eye, a sweet smile on his lip, and serenity on his brow, joined with the fevered
cheek, the air of lassitude, and the panting, oppressed breath, there was a strange, melancholy
beauty about him; and while Amy felt an impulse of ardent, clinging affection to one so precious
to her, there was joined with it a sort of awe and veneration for one who so spoke, looked,
and felt. She hung over him, and sprinkled him with Eau-de-Cologne; then as his hair teased
him by falling into his eyes, he asked her to cut the front lock off. There was something sad
in doing this, for that 'tumble-down wave,' as Charlotte called it, was rather a favourite
of Amy's; it always seemed to have so much sympathy with his moods, and it was as if parting
with it was resigning him to a long illness. However, it was too troublesome not to go, and
he looked amused at the care with which she folded up the glossy, brown wave, and treasured
it in her dressing-case, then she read to him a few verses of a psalm, and he soon fell into
another doze.

There was little more of event, day after day. The fever never ran as high as in Philip's case,
and there was no delirium. There was almost constant torpor, but when for any short space he
was thoroughly awakened, his mind was perfectly clear, though he spoke little, and then only
on the subject immediately presented to him. There he lay for one quiet hour after another,
while Amy sat by him, with as little consciousness of time as he had himself, looking neither
forward nor backward, only to the present, to give him drink, bathe his face and hands, arrange
his pillows, or read or repeat some soothing verse. It always was a surprise when meal times
summoned her to attend to Philip, when she was asked for the letters for the post, when evening
twilight gathered in, or when she had to leave the night-watch to Arnaud, and go to bed in
the adjoining room.

This was a great trial, but he would not allow her to sit up; and her own sense showed her
that if this was to be a long illness, it would not do to waste her strength. She knew he was
quiet at night, and her trustful temper so calmed and supported her, that she was able to sleep,
and thus was not as liable to be overworked as might have been feared, and as Philip thought
she must be.

She always appeared in his room with her sweet face mournful and anxious, but never ruffled,
or with any air of haste or discomfiture, desirous as she was to return to her husband; for,
though he frequently sent her to take care of herself or of Philip, she knew that while she
was away he always grew more restless and uncomfortable, and his look of relief at her re-entrance
said as much to her as a hundred complaints of her absence would have done.

Philip was in the meantime sorely tried by being forced to be entirely inactive and dependent,
while he saw Amabel in such need of assistance; and so far from being able to requite Guy's
care, he could only look on himself as the cause of their distress, and an addition to it--a
burthen instead of a help. If he had been told a little while ago what would be the present
state of things, he would almost have laughed the speaker to scorn. He would never have thought
a child as competent as Amy to the sole management of two sick persons, and he not able either
to advise or cheer her. Yet he could not see anything went wrong that depended on her. His
comforts were so cared for, that he was often sorry she should have troubled herself about
them; and though he could have little of her company, he never was allowed to feel himself
deserted. Anne, Arnaud, the old Italian nurse, or Amy herself, were easily summoned, and gave
him full care and attention.

He was, however, necessarily a good deal alone; and though his cousin's books were at his disposal,
eyes and head were too weak for reading, and he was left a prey to his own thoughts. His great
comfort was, that Guy was less ill than he had been himself, and that there was no present
danger; otherwise, he could never have endured the conviction that all had been caused by his
own imprudence. Imprudence! Philip was brought very low to own that such a word applied to
him, yet it would have been well for him had that been the chief burthen on his mind. Was it
only an ordinary service of friendship and kindred that Guy had, at the peril of his own life,
rendered him? Was it not a positive return of good for evil? Yes, evil! He now called that
evil, or at least harshness and hastiness in judgment, which he had hitherto deemed true friendship
and consideration for Guy and Amy. Every feeling of distrust and jealousy had been gradually
softening since his recovery began; gratitude had done much, and dismay at Guy's illness did
more. It would have been noble and generous in Guy to act as he had done, had Philip's surmises
been correct, and this he began to doubt, though it was his only justification, and even to
wish to lose it. He had rather believe Guy blameless. He would do so, if possible; and he resolved,
on the first opportunity, to beg him to give him one last assurance that all was right, and
implicitly believe him. But how was it possible again to assume to be a ruler and judge over
Guy after it was known how egregiously he himself had erred? There was shame, sorrow, self-humiliation,
and anxiety wherever he turned, and it was no wonder that depression of spirits retarded his
recovery.

It was not till the tenth day after Guy's illness had begun that Philip was able to be dressed,
and to come into the next room, where Amabel had promised to dine with him. As he lay on the
sofa, she thought he looked even more ill than in bed, the change from his former appearance
being rendered more visible, and his great height making him look the more thin. He was apparently
exhausted with the exertion of dressing, for he was very silent all dinner-time, though Amabel
could have better talked to-day than for some time past, since Guy had had some refreshing
sleep, was decidedly less feverish, seemed better for nourishing food, and said that he wanted
nothing but a puff of Redclyffe wind to make him well. He was pleased to hear of Philip's step
in recovery, and altogether, Amy was cheered and happy.

She left her cousin as soon as dinner was over, and did not come to him again for nearly an
hour and a half. She was then surprised to find him finishing a letter, resting his head on
one hand, and looking wan, weary, and very unhappy.

'Have you come to letter writing?'

'Yes,' he answered, in a worn, dejected tone, 'I must ask you to direct this, I can't make
it legible,'

No wonder, so much did his hand tremble, as he held out the envelope.

'To your sister?' she asked.

'No; to yours. I never wrote to her before. There's one enclosed to your father, to tell all.'

'I am glad you have done it,' answered Amy, in a quiet tone of sincere congratulation. 'You
will be better now it is off your mind. But how tired you are. You must go back to bed. Shall
I call Arnaud?'

'I must rest first'--and his voice failing, he laid back on the sofa, closed his eyes, turned
ashy pale, and became so faint that she could not leave him, and was obliged to apply every
restorative within reach before she could bring him back to a state of tolerable comfort.

The next minute her work was nearly undone, when Anne came in to ask for the letters for the
post. 'Shall I send yours?' asked Amy.

He muttered an assent. But when she looked back to him after speaking to Anne, she saw a tremulous,
almost convulsed working of the closed eyes and mouth, while the thin hands were clenched together
with a force contrasting with the helpless manner in which they had hung a moment before. She
guessed at the intensity of anguish it mast cost a temper so proud, a heart of so strong a
mould, and feelings so deep, to take the first irrevocable step in self-humiliation, giving
up into the hands of others the engagement that had hitherto been the cherished treasure of
his life; and above all, in exposing Laura to bear the brunt of the penalty of the fault into
which he had led her. 'Oh, for Guy to comfort him,' thought she, feeling herself entirely incompetent,
dreading to intrude on his feelings, yet thinking it unkind to go away without one sympathizing
word when he was in such distress.

'You will be glad, in time,' at last she said. He made no answer.

She held the stimulants to him again, and tried to arrange him more comfortably.

'Thank you,' at last he said. 'How is Guy?'

'He has just had another nice quiet sleep, and is quite refreshed.'

'That is a blessing, at least. But does not he want you? I have been keeping you a long time?'

'Thank you, as he is awake, I should like to go back. You are better now.'

'Yes, while I don't move.'

'Don't try. I'll send Arnaud, and as soon as you can, you had better go to bed again.'

Guy was still awake, and able to hear what she had to tell him about Philip.

'Poor fellow!' said he. 'We must try to soften it.'

'Shall I write?' said Amy. 'Mamma will be pleased to hear of his having told you, and they
must be sorry for him, when they hear how much the letter cost him.'

'Ah! they will not guess at half his sorrow.'

'I will write to papa, and send it after the other letters, so that he may read it before he
hears of Philip's.'

'Poor Laura!' said Guy. 'Could not you write a note to her too? I want her to be told that
I am very sorry, if I ever gave her pain by speaking thoughtlessly of him.'

'Nay,' said Amy, smiling, 'you have not much to reproach yourself with in that way. It was
I that always abused him.'

'You can never do so again.'

'No, I don't think I can, now I have seen his sorrow.'

Amabel was quite in spirits, as she brought her writing to his bed-side, and read her sentences
to him as she composed the letter to her father, while he suggested and approved. It was a
treat indeed to have him able to consult with her once more, and he looked so much relieved
and so much better, that she felt as if it was the beginning of real improvement, though still
his pulse was fast, and the fever, though lessened, was not gone. So he has been and gone and
done it.'

'What? Who? Not Guy?'

'Here has the Captain gone and caught a regular bad fever, in some malaria hole; delirious,
and all that sort of thing, and of course our wise brother and sister must needs go and nurse
him, by way of a pretty little interlude in their wedding tour!'

Laura's voice alone was unheard in the chorus of inquiry. She sat cold, stiff, and silent,
devouring with her ears each reply, that fell like a death-blow, while she was mechanically
continuing the occupations of breakfast. When all was told, she hurried to her own room, but
the want of sympathy was becoming intolerable. If Amabel had been at home, she must have told
her all. There was no one else; and the misery to be endured in silence was dreadful. Her dearest--her
whole joy and hope--suffering, dying, and to hear all round her speaking of him with kindness,
indeed, but what to her seemed indifference; blaming him for wilfulness, saying he had drawn
it on himself,--it seemed to drive her wild. She conjured up pictures of his sufferings, and
dreaded Guy's inexperience, the want of medical advice, imagining everything that was terrible.
Her idol, to whom her whole soul was devoted, was passing from her, and no one pitied her;
while the latent consciousness of disobedience debarred her from gaining solace from the only
true source. All was blank desolation--a wild agony, untempered by resignation, uncheered by
prayer; for though she did pray, it was without trust, without hope, while her wretchedness
was rendered more overwhelming by her efforts to conceal it. These were so far ineffectual
that no one could help perceiving that she was extremely unhappy, but then all the family knew
she was very fond of Philip, and neither her mother nor brother could be surprised at her distress,
though it certainly appeared to them excessive. Mrs. Edmonstone was very sorry for her, and
very affectionate and considerate; but Laura was too much absorbed, in her own feelings to
perceive or to be grateful for her kindness; and as each day brought a no better report, her
despair became so engrossing that she could not attempt any employment. She wandered in the
garden, sat in dreamy fits of silence in the house, and at last, after receiving one of the
worst accounts, sat up in her dressing-gown the whole of one night, in one dull, heavy, motionless
trance of misery.

She recollected that she must act her part, dressed in the morning and came down; but her looks
were ghastly; she tasted no food, and as soon as possible left the breakfast-room. Her mother
was going in quest of her when old nurse came with an anxious face to say,--'Ma'am, I am afraid
Miss Edmonstone must be very ill, or something. Do you know, ma'am, her bed has not been slept
in all night?'

'You don't say so, nurse!'

'Yes, ma'am, Jane told me so, and I went to look myself. Poor child, she is half distracted
about Master Philip, and no wonder, for they were always together; but I thought you ought
to know, ma'am, for she will make herself ill, to a certainty.'

'I am going to see about her this moment, nurse,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; and presently she found
Laura wandering up and down the shady walk, in the restlessness of her despair.

'Laura, dearest,' said she, putting her arm round her, 'I cannot bear to see you so unhappy.'

Laura did not answer; for though solitude was oppressive, every one's presence was a burthen.

'I cannot think it right to give way thus,' continued her mother. 'Did you really sit up all
night, my poor child?'

'I don't know. They did so with him!'

'My dear, this will never do. You are making yourself seriously unwell.'

'I wish--I wish I was ill; I wish I was dying!' broke from Laura, almost unconsciously, in
a hoarse, inward voice.

'My dear! You don't know what you are saying. You forget that this self-abandonment, and extravagant
grief would be wrong in any one; and, if nothing else, the display is unbecoming in you.'

Laura's over-wrought feelings could bear no more, and in a tone which, though too vehement
to be addressed to a parent, had in it an agony which almost excused it, by showing how unable
she was to restrain herself, she broke forth:----'Unbecoming! Who has a right to grieve for
him but me?--his own, his chosen,--the only one who can love him, or understand him. Her voice
died away in a sob, though without tears.

Her mother heard the words, but did not take in their full meaning; and, believing that Laura's
undeveloped affection had led her to this uncontrolled grief, she spoke again, with coldness,
intended to rouse her to a sense that she was compromising her womanly dignity.

'Take care, Laura; a woman has no right to speak in such a manner of a man who has given her
no reason to believe in his preference of her.'

'Preference! It is his love!--his love! His whole heart! The one thing that was precious to
me in this world! Preference! You little guess what we have felt for each other!'

'Laura!' Mrs. Edmonstone stood still, overpowered. 'What do you mean?' She could not put the
question more plainly.

'What have I done?' cried Laura. 'I have betrayed him!' she answered herself in a tone of despair,
as she hid her face in her hands; 'betrayed him when he is dying!'

Her mother was too much shocked to speak in the soft reluctant manner in which she was wont
to reprove.

'Laura,' said she, 'I must understand this. What has passed between you and Philip?'

Laura only replied by a flood of tears, ungovernable from the exhaustion of sleeplessness and
want of food. Mrs. Edmonstone's kindness returned; she soothed her, begged her to control herself,
and at length brought her into the house, and up to the dressing-room, where she sank on the
sofa, weeping violently. It was the reaction of the long restraint she had been exercising
on herself, and the silence she had been maintaining. She was not feeling the humiliation,
her own acknowledgement of disobedience, but of the horror of being forced to reveal the secret
he had left in her charge.

Long did she weep, breaking out more piteously at each attempt of her mother to lead her to
explain. Poor Mrs. Edmonstone was alarmed and perplexed beyond measure; this half confession
had so overthrown all her ideas that she was ready to apprehend everything most improbable,
and almost expected to hear of a private marriage. Her presence seemed only to make Laura worse,
and at length she said,--'I shall leave you for half an hour, in hopes that by that time you
may have recovered yourself, and be able to give the explanation which I require.'

She went into her own room, and waited, with her eyes on her watch, a prey to every strange
alarm and anticipation, grievously hurt at this want of confidence, and wounded, where she
least expected it, by both daughter and nephew. She thought, guessed, recollected, wondered,
tormented herself, and at the last of the thirty minutes, hastily opened the door into the
dressing-room. Laura sat as before, crouched up in the corner of the wide sofa; and when she
raised her face, at her mother's entrance, it was bewildered rather than embarrassed.

'Well, Laura?' She waited unanswered; and the wretchedness of the look so touched her, that,
kissing her, she said, 'Surely, my dear, you need not be afraid to tell me anything?'

Laura did not respond to the kindness, but asked, looking perplexed, 'What have I said? Have
I told it?'

'What you have given me reason to believe,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, trying to bring herself to
speak it explicitly, 'that you think Philip is attached to you. You do not deny it. Let me
know on what terms you stand.'

Without looking up, she murmured, 'If you would not force it from me at such a time.'

'Laura, it is for your own good. You are wretched now, my poor child; why not relieve yourself
by telling all? If you have not acted openly, can you have any comfort till you have confessed?
It may be a painful effort, but relief will come afterwards.'

'I have nothing to confess,' said Laura. 'There is no such thing as you think.'

'No engagement?'

'No.'

'Then what am I to understand by your exclamations?'

'It is no engagement,' repeated Laura. 'He would never have asked that without papa's consent.
We are only bound by our own hearts.'

'And you have a secret understanding with him?'

'We have never written to each other; we have never dreamed of any intercourse that could be
called clandestine. He would scorn it. He waited only for his promotion to declare it to papa.'

'And how long has it been declared to you?'

'Ever since the first summer Guy was here.'

'Three years!' exclaimed her mother. 'You have kept this from me three years! O Laura!'

'It was of no use to speak!' said Laura, faintly.

If she had looked up, she would have seen those words, 'no use,' cut her mother more deeply
than all; but there was only coldness in the tone of the answer, 'No use to inform your parents,
before you pledged your affections!'

'Indeed, mamma,' said Laura, 'I was sure that you knew his worth.'

'Worth! when he was teaching you to live in a course of insincerity? Your father will be deeply
hurt.'

'Papa! Oh, you must not tell him! Now, I have betrayed him, indeed! Oh, my weakness!' and another
paroxysm of tears came on.

'Laura, you seem to think you owe nothing to any one but Philip. You forget you are a daughter!
that you have been keeping up a system of disobedience and concealment, of which I could not
have believed a child of mine could be capable. O Laura, how you have abused our confidence!'

Laura was touched by the sorrow of her tone; and, throwing her arms round her neck, sobbed
out, 'You will forgive me, only forgive him!'

Mrs. Edmonstone was softened in a moment. 'Forgive you, my poor child! You have been very unhappy!'
and she kissed her, with many tears.

'Must you tell papa?' whispered Laura.

'Judge for yourself, Laura. Could I know such a thing, and hide it from him?'

Laura ceased, seeing her determined, and yielded to her pity, allowing herself to be nursed
as she required, so exhausted was she. She was laid on the sofa, and made comfortable with
pillows, in her mother's gentlest way. When Mrs. Edmonstone was called away, Laura held her
dress, saying, 'You are kind to me, but you must forgive him. Say you have forgiven him, mamma,
dearest!'

'My dear, in the grave all things are forgiven.'

She could not help saying so; but, feeling as if she had been cruel, she added, 'I mean, while
he is so ill, we cannot enter on such a matter. I am very sorry for you,' proceeded she, still
arranging for Laura's ease; then kissing her, hoped she would sleep, and left her.

Sympathy was a matter of necessity to Mrs. Edmonstone; and as her husband was out, she went
at once to Charles, with a countenance so disturbed, that he feared some worse tidings had
come from Italy.

'No, no, nothing of that sort; it is poor Laura.'

'Eh?' said Charles, with a significant though anxious look, that caused her to exclaim,--

'Surely you had no suspicion!'

Charlotte, who was reading in the window, trembled lest she should be seen, and sent away.

'I suspected poor Laura had parted with her heart. But what do you mean? What has happened?'

'Could you have guessed? but first remember how ill he is; don't be violent, Charlie. Could
you have guessed that they have been engaged, ever since the summer we first remarked them?'

She had expected a great storm; but Charles only observed, very coolly, 'Oh! it is come out
at last!'

'You don't mean that you knew it?'

'No, indeed, you don't think they would choose me for their confidant!'

'Not exactly,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, with the odd sort of laugh with which even the most sensitive
people, in the height of their troubles, reply to anything ludicrous; 'but really,' she continued,
'every idea of mine is so turned upside-down, that I don't know what to think of anybody.'

'We always knew Laura to be his slave and automaton. He is so infallible in her eyes, that
no doubt she thought her silence an act of praiseworthy resolution.'

'She was a mere child, poor dear,' said her mother; 'only eighteen! Yet Amy was but a year
older last summer. How unlike! She must have known what she was doing.'

'Not with her senses surrendered to him, without volition of her own. I wonder by what magnetism
he allowed her to tell?'

'She has gone through a great deal, poor child, and I am afraid there is much more for her
to suffer, whether he recovers or not.'

'He will recover' said Charles, with the decided manner in which people prophesy the restoration
of those they dislike, probably from a feeling that they must not die, till there is more charity
in their opinion of them.

'Your father will be so grieved.'

'Well, I suppose we must begin to make the best of it,' said Charles. 'She has been as good
as married to him these four years, for any use she has been to us; it has been only the name
of the thing, so he had better--'

'My dear Charlie, what are you talking of? You don't imagine they can marry?'

'They will some time or other, for assuredly neither will marry any one else. You will see
if Guy does not take up the cause, and return Philip's meddling--which, by the bye, is now
shown to have been more preposterous still--by setting their affairs in order for them.'

'Dear Guy, it is a comfort not to have been deceived in him!'

'Except when you believed Philip,' said Charles.

'Could anything have been more different?' proceeded Mrs. Edmonstone; 'yet the two girls had
the same training.'

'With an important exception,' said Charles; 'Laura is Philip's pupil, Amy mine; and I think
her little ladyship is the best turned out of hand.'

'How shocked Amy will be! If she was but here, it would be much better, for she always had
more of Laura's confidence than I. Oh, Charlie, there has been the error!' and Mrs. Edmonstone's
eyes were full of tears. 'What fearful mistake have I made to miss my daughter's confidence!'

'You must not ask me, mother,' said Charles, face and voice full of affectionate emotion. 'I
know too well that I have been exacting and selfish, taking too much advantage of your anxieties
for me, and that if you were not enough with my sisters when they were young girls, it was
my fault as much as my misfortune. But, after all, it has not hurt Amy in the least; nor do
I think it will hurt Charlotte.'

Charlotte did not venture to give way to her desire to kiss her mother, and thank Charles,
lest she should be exiled as an intruder.

'And,' proceeded Charles, serious, though somewhat roguish, 'I suspect that no attention would
have made much difference. You were always too young, and Laura too much addicted to the physical
sciences to get on together.'

'A weak, silly mother, sighed Mrs. Edmonstone.

This was too much for Charlotte, who sprang forward, and flung her arms round her neck, sobbing
out,--

'Mamma! dear mamma! don't say such horrid things! No one is half so wise or so good,--I am
sure Guy thinks so too!'

At the same time Bustle, perceiving a commotion, made a leap, planted his fore-feet on Mrs.
Edmonstone's lap, wagging his tail vehemently, and trying to lick her face. It was not in human
nature not to laugh; and Mrs. Edmonstone did so as heartily as either of the young ones; indeed,
Charlotte was the first to resume her gravity, not being sure of her ground, and being hurt
at her impulse of affection being thus reduced to the absurd. She began to apologize,--

'Dear mamma, I could not help it. I thought you knew I wad in the room.'

'My dear child,' and her mother kissed her warmly, 'I don't want to hide anything from you.
You are my only home-daughter now.' Then recollecting her prudence, she proceeded,--'You are
old enough to understand the distress this insincerity of poor Laura's has occasioned,--and
now that Amy is gone, we must look to you to comfort us.'

Did ever maiden of fourteen feel more honoured, and obliged to be very good and wise than Charlotte,
as she knelt by her mother's side? Happily tact was coming with advancing years, and she did
not attempt to mingle in the conversation, which was resumed by Charles observing that the
strangest part of the affair was the incompatibility of so novelish and imprudent a proceeding
with the cautious, thoughtful character of both parties. It was, he said, analogous to a pentagon
flirting with a hexagon; whereas Guy, a knight of the Round Table, in name and nature, and
Amy, with her little superstitions, had been attached in the most matter-of-fact, hum-drum
way, and were in a course of living very happy ever after, for which nature could never have
designed them. Mrs. Edmonstone smiled, sighed, hoped they were prudent, and wondered whether
camphor and chloride of lime were attainable at Recoara.

Laura came down no more that day, for she was worn out with agitation, and it was a relief
to be sufficiently unwell to be excused facing her father and Charles. She had little hope
that Charlotte had not heard all; but she might seem to believe her ignorant, and could, therefore,
endure her waiting on her, with an elaborate kindness and compassion, and tip-toe silence,
far beyond the deserts of her slight indisposition.

In the evening, Charles and his mother broke the tidings to Mr. Edmonstone as gently as they
could, Charles feeling bound to be the cool, thinking head in the family. Of course Mr. Edmonstone
stormed, vowed that he could not have believed it, then veered round, and said he could have
predicted it from the first. It was all mamma's fault for letting him be so intimate with the
girls--how was a poor lad to be expected not to fall in love? Next he broke into great wrath
at the abuse of his confidence, then at the interference with Guy, then at the intolerable
presumption of Philip's thinking of Laura. He would soon let him know what he thought of it!
When reminded of Philip's present condition, he muttered an Irish imprecation on the fever
for interfering with his anger, and abused the 'romantic folly' that had carried Guy to nurse
him at Recoara. He was not so much displeased with Laura; in fact he thought all young ladies
always ready to be fallen in love with, and hardly accountable for what their lovers might
make them do, and he pitied her heartily, when he heard of her sitting up all night. Anything
of extravagance in love met with sympathy from him, and there was no effort in his hearty forgiveness
of her. He vowed that she should give the fellow up, and had she been present, would have tried
to make her do so at a moment's warning; but in process of time he was convinced that he must
not persecute her while Philip was in extremity, and though, like Charles, he scorned the notion
of his death, and, as if it was an additional crime, pronounced him to be as strong as a horse,
he was quite ready to put off all proceedings till his recovery, being glad to defer the evil
day of making her cry.

So when Laura ventured out, she met with nothing harsh; indeed, but for the sorrowful kindness
of her family towards her, she could hardly have guessed that they knew her secret.

Her heart leapt when Amabel's letter was silently handed to her, and she saw the news of Philip's
amendment, but a sickening feeling succeeded, that soon all forbearance would be at an end,
and he must hear that her weakness had betrayed his secret. For the present, however, nothing
was said, and she continued in silent dread of what each day might bring forth, till one afternoon,
when the letters had been fetched from Broadstone, Mrs. Edmonstone, with an exclamation of
dismay, read aloud:--

       'Recoara, September 8th.

'DEAREST MAMMA,--Don't be very much frightened when I tell you that Guy has caught the fever.
He has been ailing since Sunday, and yesterday became quite ill; but we hope it will not be
so severe an illness as Philip's was. He sleeps a great deal, and is in no pain, quite sensible
when he is awake. Arnaud is very useful, and so is Anne; and he is so quiet at night, that
he wants no one but Arnaud, and will not let me sit up with him. Philip is better.

       'Your most affectionate,
                       'A.F.M.'

The reading was followed by a dead silence, then Mr. Edmonstone said he had always known how
it would be, and what would poor Amy do?

Mrs. Edmonstone was too unhappy to answer, for she could see no means of helping them. Mr.
Edmonstone was of no use in a sick-room, and she had never thought it possible to leave Charles.
It did not even occur to her that she could do so till Charles himself suggested that she must
go to Amy.

'Can you spare me?' said she, as if it was a new light.

'Why not? Who can be thought of but Amy? She ought not to be a day longer without you.'

'Dr. Mayerne would look in on you,' said she, considering, 'and Laura can manage for you.'

'Oh, I shall do very well. Do you think I could bear to keep you from her?'

'Some one must go,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, 'and even if I could think of letting Laura run the
risk, this unhappy affair about Philip puts her going out of the question.'

'No one but you can go, said Charles; 'it is of no use to talk of anything else.'

It was settled that if the next account was not more favourable, Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone should
set off for Recoara. Laura heard, in consternation at the thought of her father's meeting Philip,
still weak and unwell, without her, and perhaps with Guy too ill to be consulted. And oh! what
would Philip think of her? Her weakness had disclosed his secret, and sunk her beneath him,
and he must hear it from others. She felt as if she could have thrown herself at her mother's
feet as she implored her to forbear, to spare him, to spare her. Her mother pitied her incoherent
distress, but it did not make her feel more in charity with Philip. She would not promise that
the subject should, not be discussed, but she tried to reassure Laura by saying that nothing
should be done that could retard his recovery.

With this Laura was obliged to content herself; and early the second morning, after the letter
arrived, she watched the departure of her father and mother.

She had expected to find the care of Charles very anxious work, but she prospered beyond her
hopes. He was very kind and considerate, and both he and Charlotte were so sobered by anxiety,
that there was no fear of their spirits overpowering her.

Mary Ross used to come almost every afternoon to inquire. One day she found Charles alone,
crutching himself slowly along the terrace, and she thought nothing showed the forlorn state
of the family so much as to see him out of doors with no one for a prop.

'Mary! Just as I wanted you!'

'What account?' said she, taking the place of one of the crutches.

'Excellent; the fever and drowsiness seem to be going off. It must have been a light attack,
and the elders will hardly come in time for mamma to have any nursing. So there's Guy pretty
well off one's mind.'

'And Amy?'

'This was such a long letter, and so cheerful, that she must be all right. What I wanted to
speak to you about was Laura. You know the state of things. Well, the captain--I wish he was
not so sorry, it deprives one of the satisfaction of abusing him--the captain, it seems, was
brought to his senses by his illness, confessed all to Guy, and now has written to tell the
whole truth to my father.'

'Has he? That is a great relief!'

'Not that I have seen his letter; Laura ran away with it, and has not said a word of it. I
know it from one to papa from Amy, trying to make the best of it, and telling how thoroughly
he is cut up. She says he all but fainted after writing. Fancy that poor little thing with
a great man, six foot one, fainting away on her hands!'

'I thought he was pretty well again.'

'He must be to have written at all, and a pretty tolerably bitter pill it must have been to
set about it. What a thing for him to have had to tell Guy, of all people--I do enjoy that!
So, of course, Guy takes up his cause, and sends a message, that is worth anything, as showing
he is himself better, though in any one else it would be a proof of delirium. My two brothers-in-law
might sit for a picture of the contrast.'

'Then you think Mr. Edmonstone will consent?'

'To be sure; we shall have him coming home, saying--

       It is a fine thing to be father in-law
       To a very magnificent three-tailed bashaw.

He will never hold out against Guy and Amy, and Philip will soon set up a patent revolver,
to be turned by the little god of love on the newest scientific principles.'

'Where is Laura?' said Mary, smiling.

'I turned her out to walk with Charlotte, and I want some counsel, as mamma says I know nothing
of lovers.'

'Because I know so much?'

'You know feminine nature I want to know what is the best thing to do for Laura. Poor thing!
I can't bear to see her look so wretched, worrying herself with care of me. I have done the
best I could by taking Charlotte's lessons, and sending her out to mope alone, as she likes
best; but I wish you would tell me how to manage her.'

'I know nothing better for her than waiting on you.'

'That's hard,' said Charles, 'that having made the world dance attendance on me for my pleasure,
I must now do it for theirs. But what do you think about telling her of this letter, or showing
it, remembering that not a word about her troubles has passed between us?'

'By all means tell her. You must judge about showing it, but I should think the opening for
talking to her on the subject a great gain.'

'Should you? What, thinking as I do of the man? Should I not be between the horns of a dilemma
if I had to speak the honest truth, yet not hurt her feelings?'

'She has been so long shut up from sympathy, that any proof of kindness must be a comfort.'

'Well, I should like to do her some good, but it will be a mercy, if she does not make me fall
foul of Philip! I can get up a little Christian charity, when my father or Charlotte rave at
him, but I can't stand hearing him praised. I take the opportunity of saying so while I can,
for I expect he will come home as her betrothed, and then we shall not be able to say one word.'

'No, I dare say he will be so altered and subdued that you will not be so disposed to rail.
This confession is a grand thing. Good-bye I must get back to church. Poor Laura! how busy
she has been about her sketch there lately.'

'Yes, she has been eager about finishing it ever since Guy began to be ill. Good-bye. Wish
me well through my part of confidant to-night. It is much against the grain, though I would
give something to cheer up my poor sister.'

'I am sure you would,' thought Mary to herself, as she looked back at him: 'what a quantity
of kind, right feeling there in under that odd, dry manner, that strives to appear to love
nothing but a joke.'

As soon as Charlotte was gone to bed, Charles, in accordance with his determination, said to
Laura,--

'Have you any fancy for seeing Amy's letter?'

'Thank you;' and, without speaking, Laura took it. He forbore to watch her expression as she
read. When she had finished, her face was fixed in silent unhappiness.

'He has been suffering a great deal, I am sure,' said Charles, kindly. It was the first voluntary
word of compassion towards Philip that Laura had heard, and it was as grateful as unexpected.
Her face softened, and tears gushed from her eyes as she said,--

'You do not know how much. There he is grieving for me! thinking they will be angry with me,
and hurting himself with that! Oh! if this had but come before they set off!'

'Guy and Amy will tell them of his having written.'

'Dear, dear Guy and Amy! He speaks so earnestly of their kindness. I don't fear it so much
now he and Guy understand each other.'

Recollecting her love, Charles refrained, only saying, 'You can rely on their doing everything
to make it better.'

'I can hardly bear to think of what we owe to them,' said Laura. 'How glad I am that Amy was
there after he wrote, when he was so much overcome! Amy has written me such a very kind note;
I think you must see that--it is so like her own dear self.'

She gave it to him, and he read:--

'MY DEAREST,--I never could tell you before how we have grieved for you ever since we knew
it. I am so sorry I wrote such dreadful accounts; and Guy says he wants to ask your pardon,
if he ever said anything that pained you about Philip. I understand all your unhappiness now,
my poor dear; but it will be better now it is known. Don't be reserved, with Charlie, pray;
for if he sees you are unhappy, he will be so very kind. I have just seen Philip again, and
found him rested and better. He is only anxious about you; but I tell him I know you will be
glad it is told.

        'Your most affectionate sister,
                             'A. F. M.'

'Laura' said Charles, finishing the letter, 'Amy gives you very good advice, as far as I am
concerned. I do want to be of as much use to you as I can--I mean as kind.'

'I know--I know; thank you,' said Laura, struggling with her tears. 'You have been--you are; but--'

'Ay,' thought Charles, 'I see, she won't be satisfied, if my kindness includes her alone. What
will my honesty let me say to please her? Oh! I know.--You must not expect me to say that Philip
has, behaved properly, Laura, nothing but being in love could justify such a delusion; but
I do say that there is greatness of mind in his confessing it, especially at a time when he
could put it off, and is so unequal to agitation.'

It was the absence of any tone of satire that made this speech come home to Laura as it was
meant. There was no grudging in the praise, and she answered, in a very low, broken voice,--

'You will think so still more when you see this note, which he sent open, inside mine, to be
given to papa when I had told my own story. Oh, his considerateness for me!'

She gave it to him. The address, 'C. Edmonstone, Esq.,' was a mere scrawl, and within the writing
was very trembling and weak. Charles remarked it, and she answered by saying that her own letter
began in his own strong hand, but failed and grew shaky at the end, as if from fatigue and
agitation. The words were few, brief, and simple, very unlike his usual manner of letter-writing.

'MY DEAR UNCLE,--My conduct has been unjustifiable--I feel it. Do not visit it on Laura--I
alone should suffer. I entreat your pardon, and my aunt's, and leave all to you. I will write
more at length. Be kind to her.--Yours affectionately,

'PH. M.'

'Poor Philip!' said Charles, really very much touched. From that moment, Laura no longer felt
completely isolated, and deprived of sympathy. She sat by Charles till late that night, and
told him the whole history of her engagement, much relieved by the outpouring of her long-hidden
griefs, and comforted by his kindness, though he could not absolutely refrain from words and
gestures of censure. It was as strange that Charles should be the first person to whom Laura
told this history, as that Guy should have been Philip's first confidant.

CHAPTER 35

     There is a Rock, and nigh at hand,
     A shadow in a weary land,
     Who in that stricken Rock hath rest,
     Finds water gushing from its breast.
                                  --NEALE

In the meantime the days passed at Recoara without much change for the better or worse. After
the first week, Guy's fever had diminished; his pulse was lower, the drowsiness ceased, and
it seemed as if there was nothing to prevent absolute recovery. But though each morning seemed
to bring improvement, it never lasted; the fever, though not high, could never be entirely
reduced, and strength was perceptibly wasting, in spite of every means of keeping it up.

There was not much positive suffering, very little even of headache, and he was cheerful, though
speaking little, because he was told not to excite or exhaust himself. Languor and lassitude
were the chief causes of discomfort; and as his strength failed, there came fits of exhaustion
and oppression that tried him severely. At first, these were easily removed by stimulants;
but remedies seemed to lose their effect, and the sinking was almost death-like.

'I think I could bear acute pain better!' he said one day; and more than once the sigh broke
from him almost unconsciously,--'Oh for one breath of Redclyffe sea-wind!' Indeed, it seemed
as if the close air of the shut-in-valley, at the end of a long hot day was almost enough to
overwhelm him, weak as he had become. Every morning, when Amabel let in the fresh breeze at
the window, she predicted it would be a cool day, and do him good; every afternoon the wind
abated, the sun shone full in, the room was stifling, the faintness came on, and after a few
vain attempts at relieving it, Guy sighed that there was nothing for it but quiet, and Amy
was obliged to acquiesce. As the sun set, the breeze sprung up, it became cooler, he fell asleep,
awoke revived, was comfortable all the evening, and Amy left him at eleven or twelve, with
hopes of his having a good night.

It seemed to her as if ages had passed in this way, when one evening two letters were brought in.

'From mamma!' said she; 'and this one,' holding it up, 'is for you. It must have been hunting
us everywhere. How many different directions!'

'From Markham,' said Guy. 'It must be the letter we were waiting for.'

The letter to tell them Redclyffe was ready to receive them! Amabel put it down with a strange
sensation, and opened her mother's. With a start of joy she exclaimed--

'They are coming--mamma and papa!'

'Then all is right!'

'If we do not receive a much better account,' read Amy, 'we shall set off early on Wednesday,
and hope to be with you not long after you receive this letter.'

'Oh I am so glad! I wonder how Charlie gets on without her.'

'It is a great comfort,' said Guy.

'Now you will see what a nurse mamma is!'

'Now you will be properly cared for.'

'How nice it will be! She will take care of you all night, and never be tired, and devise everything
I am too stupid for, and make you so comfortable!'

'Nay, no one could do that better than you, Amy. But it is joy indeed--to see mamma again--to
know you are safe with her. Everything comes to make it easy!' The last words were spoken very
low; and she did not disturb him by saying anything till he asked about the rest of the letter,
and desired her to read Markham's to him.

This cost her some pain, for it had been written in ignorance of even Philip's illness, and
detailed triumphantly the preparations at Redclyffe, hinting that they must send timely notice
of their return, or they would disappoint the tenantry, who intended grand doings, and concluding
with a short lecture on the inexpediency of lingering in foreign parts.

'Poor Markham,' said Guy.

She understood; but these things did not come on her like a shock now, for he had been saying
them more or less ever since the beginning of his illness; and fully occupied as she was, she
never opened her mind to the future. After a long silence, Guy said--

'I am very sorry for him. I have been making Arnaud write to him for me.'

'Oh, have you?'

'It was better for you not to do it, Arnaud has written for me at night. You will send it,
Amy, and another to my poor uncle.'

'Very well,' said she, as he looked at her.

'I have told Markham,' said he presently, 'to send you my desk. There are all sorts of things
in it, just as I threw them in when I cleared out my rooms at Oxford. I had rather nobody but
you saw some of them. There is nothing of any importance, so you may look at them when you
please, or not at all.'

She gazed at him without answering. If there had been any struggle to retain him, it would
have been repressed by his calmness; but the thought had not come on her suddenly, it was more
like an inevitable fate seen at first at a distance, and gradually advancing upon her. She
had never fastened on the hope of his recovery, and it had dwindled in an almost imperceptible
manner. She kept watch over him, and followed his thoughts, without stretching her mind to
suppose herself living without him; and was supported by the forgetfulness of self, which gave
her no time to realize her feelings.

'I should like to have seen Redclyffe bay again,' said Guy, after a space. 'Now that mamma
is coming, that is the one thing. I suppose I had set my heart on it, for it comes back to
me how I reckoned on standing on that rock with you, feeling the wind, hearing the surge, looking
at the meeting of earth and sky, and the train of sunlight.' He spoke slowly, pausing between
each recollection,--'You will see it some day,' he added. 'But I must give it up; it is earth
after all, and looking back.'

Through the evening, he seemed to be dwelling on thoughts of his own, and only spoke to tell
her of some message to friends at Redclyffe, or Hollywell, to mention little Marianne Dixon,
or some other charge that he wished to leave. She thought he had mentioned almost every one
with whom he had had any interchange of kindness at either of his homes, even to old nurse
at Hollywell, remembering them all with quiet pleasure. At half-past eleven, he sent her to
bed, and she went submissively, cheered by thinking him likely to sleep.

As soon as she could conscientiously call the night over, she returned to him, and was received
with one of the sweet, sunny, happy looks that had always been his peculiar charm, and, of
late, had acquired an expression almost startling from their very beauty and radiance. It was
hardly to be termed a smile, for there was very little, if any, movement of the lips, it was
more like the reflection of some glory upon the whole countenance.

'You have had a good night?' she said.

'I have had my wish, I have seen Redclyffe;' then, seeing her look startled, 'Of course, it
was a sort of wandering; but I never quite lost the consciousness of being here, and it was
very delightful. I saw the waves, each touched with light,--the foam--the sea-birds, floating
in shade and light,--the trees--the Shag--the sky--oh! such a glory as I never knew--themselves--but
so intensely glorious!'

'I am glad' said Amabel, with a strange participation of the delight it had given him.

'I don't understand such goodness!' he continued. 'As if it were not enough to look to heaven
beyond, to have this longing gratified, which I thought I ought to conquer. Oh, Amy! is not
that being Fatherly!'

'Yes, indeed.'

'Now after that, and with mamma's coming (for you will have her if I don't see her), I have
but one wish unfulfilled.'

'Ah! a clergyman.'

'Yes, but if that is withheld, I must believe it is rightly ordered. We must think of that
Sunday at Stylehurst and Christmas-day, and that last time at Munich.'

'Oh, I am so glad we stayed at Munich for that!'

'Those were times, indeed! and many more. Yes; I have been a great deal too much favoured already,
and now to be allowed to die just as I should have chosen--'

He broke off to take what Amabel was preparing for him, and she felt his pulse. There was fever
still, which probably supplied the place of strength, for he said he was very comfortable,
and his eyes were as bright as ever; but the beats were weak and fluttering, and a thrill crossed
her that it might be near; but she must attend to him, and could not think.

When it was time for her to go down to breakfast with Philip, Guy said, 'Do you think Philip
could come to me to-day? I want much to speak to him.'

'I am sure he could.'

'Then pray ask him to come, if it will not tire him very much.'

Philip had, the last two mornings, risen in time to breakfast with Amabel, in the room adjoining
his own; he was still very weak, and attempted no more than crossing the room, and sitting
in the balcony to enjoy the evening air. He had felt the heat of the weather severely, and
had been a good deal thrown back by his fatigue and agitation the day he wrote the letter,
while also anxiety for Guy was retarding his progress, though he only heard the best side of
his condition. Besides all this, his repentance both for his conduct with regard to Laura and
the hard measure he had dealt to Guy was pressing on him increasingly; and the warm feelings,
hardened and soured by early disappointment, regained their force, and grew into a love and
admiration that made it still more horrible to perceive that he had acted ungenerously towards
his cousin.

When he heard of Guy's desire to see him, he was pleased, said he was quite able to walk up-stairs,
had been thinking of offering to help her by sitting with him, and was very glad to hear he
was well enough to wish for a visit. She saw she must prepare him for what the conversation
was likely to be.

'He is very anxious to see you,' she said. 'He is wishing to set all in order. And if he does
speak about--about dying, will you be so kind as not to contradict him?'

'There is no danger?' cried Philip, startling, with a sort of agony. 'He is no worse? You said
the fever was lower.'

'He is rather better, I think; but he wishes so much to have everything arranged, that I am
sure it will be better for him to have it off his mind. So, will you bear it, please, Philip?'
ended she, with an imploring look, that reminded him of her childhood.

'How do you bear it?' he asked.

'I don't know--I can't vex him.'

Philip said no more, and only asked when he should come.

'In an hour's time, perhaps, or whenever he was ready,' she said, 'for he could rest in the
sitting-room before coming in to Guy.'

He found mounting the stairs harder than he had expected, and, with aching knees and gasping
breath, at length reached the sitting-room, where Amabel was ready to pity him, and made him
rest on the sofa till he had fully recovered. She then conducted him in; and his first glance
gave him infinite relief, for he saw far less change than was still apparent in himself. Guy's
face was at all times too thin to be capable of losing much of its form, and as he was liable
to be very much tanned, the brown, fixed on his face by the sunshine of his journey had not
gone off, and a slight flush on his cheeks gave him his ordinary colouring; his beautiful hazel
eyes were more brilliant than ever; and though the hand he held out was hot and wasted, Philip
could not think him nearly as ill as he had been himself, and was ready to let him talk as
he pleased. He was reassured, too, by his bright smile, and the strength of his voice, as he
spoke a few playful words of welcome and congratulation. Amy set a chair, and with a look to
remind Philip to be cautious, glided into her own room, leaving the door open, so as to see
and hear all that passed, for they were not fit to be left absolutely alone together.

Philip sat down; and after a little pause Guy began:

'There were a few things I wanted to say, in case you should be my successor at Redclyffe.'

A horror came over Philip; but he saw Amy writing at her little table, and felt obliged to refrain.

'I don't think of directing you,' said Guy, 'You will make a far better landlord than I; but
one or two things I should like.'

'Anything you wish!'

'Old Markham. He has old-world notions and prejudices, but his soul is in the family and estate.
His heart will be half broken, for me, and if he loses his occupation, he will be miserable.
Will you bear with him, and be patient while he lives, even if he is cross and absurd in his
objections, and jealous of all that is not me?'

'Yes--yes--if--'

'Thank you. Then there is Coombe Prior. I took Wellwood's pay on myself. Will you? And I should
like him to have the living. Then there is the school to be built; and I thought of enclosing
that bit of waste, to make gardens for the people; but that you'll do much better. Well; don't
you remember when you were at Redclyffe last year' (Philip winced) 'telling Markham that bit
of green by Sally's gate ought to be taken into the park? I hope you won't do that, for it
is the only place the people have to turn out their cows and donkeys. And you won't cut them
off from the steps from the Cove, for it saves the old people from being late for church? Thank
you. As to the rest, it is pleasant to think it will be in such hands if--'

That 'if' gave Philip some comfort, though it did not mean what he fancied. He thought of Guy's
recovery; Guy referred to the possibility of Amabel's guardianship.

'Amy has a list of the old people who have had so much a week, or their cottages rent-free,'
said Guy. 'If it comes to you, you will not let them feel the difference? And don't turn off
the old keeper Brown; he is of no use, but it would kill him. And Ben Robinson, who was so
brave in the shipwreck, a little notice now and then would keep him straight. Will you tell
him I hope he will never forget that morning-service after the wreck? He may be glad to think
of it when he is as I am now. You tell him, for he will mind more what comes from a man.'

All this had been spoken with pauses for recollection, and for Philip's signs of assent. Amabel
came to give him some cordial; and as soon as she had retreated he went on:--

'My poor uncle; I have written--that is, caused Arnaud to write to him. I hope this may sober
him; but one great favour I have to ask of you. I can't leave him money, it would only be a
temptation; but will you keep an eye on him, and let Amy rely on you to tell her when to help
him I can't ask any one else, and she cannot do it for herself; but you would do it well. A
little kindness might save him; and you don't know how generous a character it is, run to waste.
Will you undertake this?'

'To be sure I will!'

'Thank you very much. You will judge rightly; but he has delicate feelings. Yes, really; and
take care you don't run against them.'

Another silence followed; after which Guy said, smiling with his natural playfulness, 'One
thing more. You are the lawyer of the family, and I want a legal opinion. I have been making
Arnaud write my will. I have wished Miss Wellwood of St. Mildred's to have some money for a
sisterhood she wants to establish. Now, should I leave it to herself or name trustees?'

Philip heard as if a flash of light was blinding him, and he interrupted, with an exclamation:--

'Tell me one thing! Was that the thousand pounds?'

'Yes. I was not at liberty to--'

He stopped, for he was unheard. At the first word Philip had sunk on his knees, hiding his
face on the bed-clothes, in an agony of self-abasement, before the goodness he had been relentlessly
persecuting.

'It was that?' he said, in a sort of stifled sob. 'Oh, can you forgive me?'

He could not look up; but he felt Guy's hand touch his head, and heard him say, 'That was done
long ago. Even as you pardoned my fierce rage against you, which I trust is forgiven above.
It has been repented!'

As he spoke there was a knock at the door, and, with the instinctive dread of being found in
his present posture, Philip sprang to his feet. Amabel went to the door, and was told that
the physician was down-stairs with two gentlemen; and a card was given her, on which she read
the name of an English clergyman.

'There, again!' said Guy. 'Everything comes to me. Now it is all quite right.'

Amabel was to go and speak to them, and Guy would see Mr. Morris, the clergyman, as soon as
the physician had made his visit. 'You must not go down,' he then said to Philip. 'You will
wait in the sitting-room, won't you? We shall want you again, you know,' and his calm brightness
was a contrast to Philip's troubled look. 'All is clear between us now,' he added, as Philip
turned away.

Long ago, letters had been written to Venice, begging that if an English clergyman should travel
that way he might be told how earnestly his presence was requested; this was the first who
had answered the summons. He was a very young man, much out of health, and travelling under
the care of a brother, who was in great dread of his doing anything to injure himself. Amabel
soon perceived that, though kind and right-minded, he could not help them, except as far as
his office was concerned. He was very shy, only just in priest's orders; he told her he had
never had this office to perform before, and seemed almost to expect her to direct him; while
his brother was so afraid of his over-exerting himself, that she could not hope he would take
charge of Philip.

However, after the physician had seen Guy, she brought Mr. Morris to him, and came forward,
or remained in her room, according as she was wanted. She thought her husband's face was at
each moment acquiring more unearthly beauty, and feeling with him, she was raised above thought
or sensation of personal sorrow.

When the first part of the service was over, and she exchanged a few words, out of Guy's hearing,
with Mr. Morris, he said to her, as from the very fullness of his heart, 'One longs to humble
oneself to him. How it puts one to shame to hear such repentance with such a confession!'

The time came when Philip was wanted. Amabel had called in Anne and the clergyman's brother,
and went to fetch her cousin. He was where she had left him in the sitting-room, his face hidden
in his arms, crossed on the table, the whole man crushed, bowed down, overwhelmed with remorse.

'We are ready. Come, Philip.'

'I cannot; I am not worthy,' he answered, not looking up.

'Nay, you are surely in no uncharitableness with him now,' said she, gently.

A shudder expressed his no.

'And if you are sorry--that is repentance--more fit now than ever--Won't you come? Would you
grieve him now?'

'You take it on yourself, then,' said Philip, almost sharply, raising his haggard face.

She did not shrink, and answered, 'A broken and contrite heart, O God, Thou wilt not despise.'

It was a drop of balm, a softening drop. He rose, and trembling from head to foot, from the
excess of his agitation, followed her into Guy's room.

The rite was over, and stillness succeeded the low tones, while all knelt in their places.
Amabel arose first, for Guy, though serene, looked greatly exhausted, and as she sprinkled
him with vinegar, the others stood up. Guy looked for Philip, and held out his hand. Whether
it was his gentle force, or of Philip's own accord Amabel could not tell; but as he lay with
that look of perfect peace and love, Philip bent down over him and kissed his forehead.

'Thank you!' he faintly whispered. 'Good night. God bless you and my sister.'

Philip went, and he added to Amy, 'Poor fellow! It will be worse for him than for you. You
must take care of him.'

She hardly heard the last words, for his head sunk on one side in a deathlike faintness, the
room was cleared of all but herself, and Anne fetched the physician at once.

At length it passed off, and Guy slept. The doctor felt his pulse, and she asked his opinion
of it. Very low and unequal, she was told: his strength was failing, and there seemed to be
no power of rallying it, but they must do their best to support him with cordials, according
to the state of his pulse. The physician could not remain all night himself, but would come
as soon as he could on the following day.

Amabel hardly knew when it was that he went away; the two Mr. Morrises went to the other hotel;
and she made her evening visit to Philip. It was all like a dream, which she could afterwards
scarcely remember, till night had come on, and for the first time she found herself allowed
to keep watch over her husband.

He had slept quietly for some time, when she roused him to give him some wine, as she was desired
to do constantly. He smiled, and said, 'Is no one here but you?'

'No one.'

'My own sweet wife, my Verena, as you have always been. We have been very happy together.'

'Indeed we have,' said she, a look of suffering crossing her face, as she thought of their
unclouded happiness. 'It will not be so long before we meet again.'

'A few months, perhaps'--said Amabel, in a stifled voice, 'like your mother--'

'No, don't wish that, Amy. You would not wish it to have no mother.'

'You will pray--' She could say no more, but struggled for calmness.

'Yes,' he answered, 'I trust you to it and to mamma for comfort. And Charlie--I shall not rob
him any longer. I only borrowed you for a little while,' he added, smiling. 'In a little while
we shall meet. Years and months seem alike now. I am sorry to cause you so much grief, my Amy,
but it is all as it should be, and we have been very happy.'

Amy listened, her eyes intently fixed on him, unable to repress her agitation, except by silence.
After some little time, he spoke again. 'My love to Charlie--and Laura--and Charlotte, my brother
and sisters. How kindly they have made me one of them! I need not ask Charlotte to take care
of Bustle, and your father will ride Deloraine. My love to him, and earnest thanks, for you
above all, Amy. And dear mamma! I must look now to meeting her in a brighter world; but tell
her how I have felt all her kindness since I first came in my strangeness and grief. How kind
she was! how she helped me and led me, and made me know what a mother was. Amy, it will not
hurt you to hear it was your likeness to her that first taught me to love you. I have been
so very happy, I don't understand it.'

He was again silent, as in contemplation, and Amabel's overcoming emotion had been calmed and
chastened down again, now that it was no longer herself that was spoken of. Both were still,
and he seemed to sleep a little. When next he spoke, it was to ask if she could repeat their
old favourite lines in "Sintram". They came to her lips, and she repeated them in a low, steady
voice.

       Seest thou the eastern dawn!

'In eternal peace,' repeated Guy; 'I did not think it would have been so soon. I can't think
where the battle has been. I never thought my life could be so bright. It was a foolish longing,
when first I was ill, for the cool waves of Redclyffe bay and that shipwreck excitement, if
I was to die. This is far better. Read me a psalm, Amy, "Out of the deep."'

There was something in his perfect happiness that would not let her grieve, though a dull heavy
sense of consternation was growing on her. So it went on through the night--not a long, nor
a dreary one--but more like a dream. He dozed and woke, said a few tranquil words, and listened
to some prayer, psalm, or verse, then slept again, apparently without suffering, except when
he tried to take the cordials, and this he did with such increasing difficulty, that she hardly
knew how to bear to cause him so much pain, though it was the last lingering hope. He strove
to swallow them, each time with the mechanical 'Thank you,' so affecting when thus spoken;
but at last he came to, 'It is of no use; I cannot.'

Then she knew all hope was gone, and sat still, watching him. The darkness lessened, and twilight
came. He slept, but his breath grew short, and unequal; and as she wiped the moisture on his
brow, she knew it was the death-damp.

Morning light came on--the church bell rang out matins--the white hills were tipped with rosy
light. His pulse was almost gone--his hand was cold. At last he opened his eyes. 'Amy! he said,
as if bewildered, or in pain.

'Here, dearest!'

'I don't see.'

At that moment the sun was rising, and the light streamed in at the open window, and over the
bed; but it was "another dawn than ours" that he beheld as his most beautiful of all smiles
beamed over his face, and he said, 'Glory in the Highest!--peace--goodwill'--A struggle for
breath gave an instant's look of pain, then he whispered so that she could but just hear--'The
last prayer.' She read the Commendatory Prayer. She knew not the exact moment, but even as
she said 'Amen' she perceived it was over. The soul was with Him with whom dwell the spirits
of just men made perfect; and there lay the earthly part with a smile on the face. She closed
the dark fringed eyelids--saw him look more beautiful than in sleep--then, laying her face
down on the bed, she knelt on. She took no heed of time, no heed of aught that was earthly.
How long she knelt she never knew, but she was roused by Anne's voice in a frightened sob--'My
lady, my lady--come away! Oh, Miss Amabel, you should not be here.'

She lifted her head, and Anne afterwards told Mary Ross, 'she should never forget how my lady
looked. It was not grief: it was as if she had been a little way with her husband, and was
just called back.'

She rose--looked at his face again--saw Arnaud was at hand--let Anne lead her into the next
room, and shut the door.

CHAPTER 36

     The matron who alone has stood
     When not a prop seemed left below,
     The first lorn hour of widowhood,
     Yet, cheered and cheering all the while,
     With sad but unaffected, smile.
                          --CHRISTIAN YEAR

The four months' wife was a widow before she was twenty-one, and there she sat in her loneliness,
her maid weeping, seeking in vain for something to say that might comfort her, and struck with
fear at seeing her thus composed. It might be said that she had not yet realized her situation,
but the truth was, perhaps, that she was in the midst of the true realities. She felt that
her Guy was perfectly happy--happy beyond thought or comparison--and she was so accustomed
to rejoice with him, that her mind had not yet opened to understand that his joy left her mourning
and desolate.

Thus she remained motionless for some minutes, till she was startled by a sound of weeping--those
fearful overpowering sobs, so terrible in a strong man forced to give way.

'Philip!' thought she; and withal Guy's words returned--'It will be worse for him than for
you. Take care of him.'

'I must go to him,' said she at once.

She took up a purple prayer-book that she had unconsciously brought in her hand from Guy's
bed, and walked down-stairs, without pausing to think what she should say or do, or remembering
how she would naturally have shrunk from the sight of violent grief.

Philip had retired to his own room the night before, overwhelmed by the first full view of
the extent of the injuries he had inflicted, the first perception that pride and malevolence
had been the true source of his prejudice and misconceptions, and for the first time conscious
of the long-fostered conceit that had been his bane from boyhood. All had flashed on him with
the discovery of the true purpose of the demand which he thought had justified his persecution.
He saw the glory of Guy's character and the part he had acted,--the scales of self-admiration
fell from his eyes, and he knew both himself and his cousin.

His sole comfort was in hope for the future, and in devising how his brotherly affection should
for the rest of his life testify his altered mind, and atone for past ill-will. This alone
kept him from being completely crushed,--for he by no means imagined how near the end was,
and the physician, willing to spare himself pain, left him in hopes, though knowing how it
would be. He slept but little, and was very languid in the morning; but he rose as soon as
Arnaud came to him, in order not to occupy Arnaud's time, as well as to be ready in case Guy
should send for him again, auguring well from hearing that there was nothing stirring above,
hoping this was a sign that Guy was asleep. So hoped the two servants for a long time, but
at length, growing alarmed, after many consultations, they resolved to knock at the door, and
learn what was the state of things.

Philip likewise was full of anxiety, and coming to his room door to listen for intelligence,
it was the "e morto" of the passing Italians that first revealed to him the truth. Guy dead,
Amy widowed, himself the cause--he who had said he would never be answerable for the death
of this young man.

Truly had Guy's threat, that he would make him repent, been fulfilled. He tottered back to
his couch, and sank down, in a burst of anguish that swept away all the self-control that had
once been his pride. There Amabel found him stretched, face downwards, quivering and convulsed
by frightful sobs.

'Don't--don't, Philip,' said she, in her gentle voice. 'Don't cry so terribly!'

Without looking up, he made a gesture with his hand, as if to drive her away. 'Don't come here
to reproach me!' he muttered.

'No, no; don't speak so. I want you to hear me; I have something for you from him. If you would
only listen, I want to tell you how happy and comfortable it was.' She took a chair and sat
down by him, relieved on perceiving that the sobs grew a little less violent.

'It was very peaceful, very happy,' repeated she. 'We ought to be very glad.'

He turned round, and glanced at her for a moment; but he could not bear to see her quiet face.
'You don't know what you say,' he gasped. 'No; take care of yourself, don't trouble yourself
for such as me!'

'I must; he desired me,' said Amabel. 'You will be happier, indeed, Philip, if you would only
think what glory it is, and that he is all safe, and has won the victory, and will have no
more of those hard, hard struggles, and bitter repentance. It has been such a night, that it
seems wrong to be sorry.'

'Did you say he spoke of me again?'

'Yes; here is his Prayer-book. Your father gave it to him, and he meant to have told you about
it himself, only he could not talk yesterday evening, and could not part with it till--'

Amy broke off by opening the worn purple cover, and showing the name, in the Archdeacon's writing.
'He's very fond of it,' she said; 'it is the one he always uses.' (Alas! she had not learnt
to speak of him in the past tense.)

Philip held out his hand, but the agony of grief returned the next moment. 'My father, my father!
He would have done him justice. If he had lived, this would never have been!'

'That is over, you do him justice now,' said Amy. 'You did, indeed you did, make him quite
happy. He said so, again and again. I never saw him so happy as when you began to get better.
I don't think any one ever had so much happiness and it never ceased, it was all quiet, and
peace, and joy, till it brightened quite into perfect day--and the angel's song! Don't you
remember yesterday, how clear and sweet his voice came out in that? and it was the last thing
almost he said. I believe'--she lowered her voice--'I believe he finished it among them.'

The earnest placid voice, speaking thus, in calmness and simplicity, could not fail in soothing
him; but he was so shaken and exhausted, that she had great difficulty in restoring him. After
a time, he lay perfectly still on the sofa, and she was sitting by, relieved by the tranquillity,
when there was a knock at the door, and Arnaud came in, and stood hesitating, as if he hardly
knew how to begin. The present fear of agitating her charge helped her now, when obliged to
turn her thoughts to the subjects on which she knew Arnaud was come. She went to the door,
and spoke low, hoping her cousin might not hear or understand.

'How soon must it be?'

'My lady, to-morrow,' said Arnaud, looking down. 'They say that so it must be; and the priest
consents to have it in the churchyard here. The brother of the clergyman is here, and would
know if your ladyship would wish--'

'I will speak to him,' said Amabel, reluctant to send such messages through servants.

'Let me,' said Philip, who understood what was going on, and was of course impelled to spare
her as much as possible.

'Thank you' said she, 'if you are able!'

'Oh, yes; I'll go at once!'

'Stop,' said she, as he was setting forth; 'you don't know what you are going to say.'

He put his hand to his head in confusion.

'He wished to be buried here,' said Amabel, 'and--'

But this renewal of the assurance of the death was too much; and covering his face with his
hands, he sank back in another paroxysm of violent sobs. Amabel could not leave him.

'Ask Mr. Morris to be so good as to wait, and I will come directly,' said she, then returned
to her task of comfort till she again saw Philip lying, with suspended faculties, in the repose
of complete exhaustion.

She then went to Mr. Morris, with a look and tone of composure that almost startled him, thanking
him for his assistance in the arrangements. The funeral was to be at sunrise the next day,
before the villagers began to keep the feast of St. Michael, and the rest was to be settled
by Arnaud and Mr. Morris. He then said, somewhat reluctantly, that his brother had desired
to know whether Lady Morville wished to see him to-day, and begged to be sent for; but Amy
plainly perceived that he thought it very undesirable for his brother to have any duties to
perform to-day. She questioned herself whether she might not ask him to read to her, and whether
it might be better for Philip; but she thought she ought not to ask what might injure him merely
for her own comfort; and, besides, Philip was entirely incapable of self-command, and it would
not be acting fairly to expose him to the chance of discovering to a stranger, feelings that
he would ordinarily guard so scrupulously.

She therefore gratefully refused the offer, and Mr. Morris very nearly thanked her for doing
so. He took his leave, and she knew she must return to her post; but first she indulged herself
with one brief visit to the room where all her cares and duties had lately centred. A look--a
thought--a prayer. The beauteous expression there fixed was a help, as it had ever been in
life and she went back again cheered and sustained.

Throughout that day she attended on her cousin, whose bodily indisposition required as much
care as his mind needed soothing. She talked to him, read to him, tried to set him the example
of taking food, took thought for him as if he was the chief sufferer, as if it was the natural
thing for her to do, working in the strength her husband had left her, and for him who had
been his chief object of care. She had no time to herself, except the few moments that she
allowed herself now and then to spend in gazing at the dear face that was still her comfort
and joy; until, at last, late in the evening, she succeeded in reading Philip to sleep. Then,
as she sat in the dim candle-light, with everything in silence, a sense of desolation came
upon her, and she knew that she was alone.

At that moment a carriage thundered at the door, and she remembered for the first time that
she was expecting her father and mother. She softly left the room and closed the door; and
finding Anne in the nest room, sent her down.

'Meet mamma, Anne,' said she; 'tell her I am quite well. Bring them here.'

They entered; and there stood Amabel, her face a little flushed, just like, only calmer, the
daughter they had parted with on her bridal day, four months ago. She held up her hand as a
sign of silence, and said,-- 'Hush! don't wake Philip.'

Mr. Edmonstone was almost angry, and actually began an impatient exclamation, but broke it
off with a sob, caught her in his arms, kissed her, and then buried his face in his handkerchief.
Mrs. Edmonstone, still aghast at the tidings they had met at Vicenza, and alarmed at her unnatural
composure, embraced her; held her for some moments, then looked anxiously to see her weep.
But there was not a tear, and her voice was itself, though low and weak, as, while her father
began pacing up and down, she repeated,--

'Pray don't, papa; Philip has been so ill all day.'

'Philip--pshaw!' said Mr. Edmonstone, hastily. 'How are you, yourself, my poor darling?'

'Quite well, thank you,' said Amy. 'There is a room ready for you.'

Mrs. Edmonstone was extremely alarmed, sure that this was a grief too deep for outward tokens,
and had no peace till she had made Amabel consent to come up with her, and go at once to bed.
To this she agreed, after she had rung for Arnaud, and stood with him in the corridor, to desire
him to go at once to Captain Morville, as softly as he could, and when he waked, to say Mr.
and Mrs. Edmonstone were come, but she thought he had better not see them to-night; to tell
him from her that she wished him good night, and hoped he would, sleep quietly. 'And, Arnaud,
take care you do not let him know the hour tomorrow. Perhaps, as he is so tired, he may sleep
till afterwards.'

Mrs. Edmonstone was very impatient of this colloquy, and glad when Amabel ended it, and led
the way up-stairs. She entered her little room, then quietly opened another door, and Mrs.
Edmonstone found herself standing by the bed, where that which was mortal lay, with its face
bright with the impress of immortality.

The shock was great, for he was indeed as a son to her; but her fears for Amabel would not
leave room for any other thought.

'Is not he beautiful?' said Amy, with a smile like his own.

'My dear, my dear, you ought not to be here,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, trying to lead her away.

'If you would let me say my prayers here!' said she, submissively.

'I think not. I don't know how to refuse, if it would be a comfort,' said Mrs. Edmonstone,
much distressed, 'but I can't think it right. The danger is greater after. And surely, my poor
dear child, you have a reason for not risking yourself!'

'Go, mamma, I ought not to have brought you here; I forgot about infection,' said Amabel, with
the tranquillity which her mother had hoped to shake by her allusion. 'I am coming.'

She took up Guy's watch and a book from the table by the bed-side, and came back to her sleeping-room.
She wound up the watch, and then allowed her mother to undress her, answering all her inquiries
about her health in a gentle, indifferent, matter-of-fact way. She said little of Guy, but
that little was without agitation, and in due time she lay down in bed. Still, whenever Mrs.
Edmonstone looked at her, there was no sleep in her eyes, and at last she persuaded her to
leave her, on the plea that being watched made her more wakeful, as she did not like to see
mamma sitting up.

Almost as soon as it was light, Mrs. Edmonstone returned, and was positively frightened, for
there stood Amabel, dressed in her white muslin, her white bonnet, and her deep lace wedding-veil.
All her glossy hair was hidden away, and her face was placid as ever, though there was a red
spot on each cheek. She saw her mother's alarm, and reassured her by speaking calmly.

'You know I have nothing else but colours; I should like to wear this, if you will let me.'

'But, dearest, you must not--cannot go.'

'It is very near. We often walked there together. I would not if I thought it would hurt me,
but I wish it very much indeed. At home by Michaelmas!'

Mrs. Edmonstone yielded, though her mind misgave her, comforted by hoping for the much-desired
tears. But Amabel, who used to cry so easily for a trifle, had now not a tear. Her grief was
as yet too deep, or perhaps more truly sorrow and mourning had not begun while the influence
of her husband's spirit was about her still.

It was time to set forth, and the small party of mourners met in the long corridor. Mr. Edmonstone
would have given his daughter his arm, but she said--

'I beg your pardon, dear papa, I don't think I can;' and she walked alone and firmly.

It was a strange sight that English funeral, so far from England. The bearers were Italian
peasants. There was a sheet thrown over the coffin instead of a pall, and this, with the white
dress of the young widow, gave the effect of the emblematic whiteness of a child's funeral;
and the impression was heightened by the floating curling white clouds of vapour rising in
strange shrouded shadowy forms, like spirit mourners, from the narrow ravines round the grave-yard,
and the snowy mountains shining in the morning light against the sky.

Gliding almost like one of those white wreaths of mist, Amabel walked alone, tearless and calm,
her head bent down, and her long veil falling round her in full light folds, as when it had
caught the purple light on her wedding-day. Her parents were close behind, weeping more for
the living than the dead, though Guy had a fast hold of their hearts; and his own mother could
scarce have loved him better than Mrs. Edmonstone did. Lastly, were Anne and Arnaud, sincere
mourners, especially Arnaud, who had loved and cherished his young master from childhood.

They went to the strangers' corner of the grave-yard, for, of course the church did not open
to a member of another communion of the visible church; but around them were the hills in which
he had read many a meaning, and which had echoed a response to his last chant with the promise
of the blessing of peace.

The blessing of peace came in the precious English burial-service, as they laid him to rest
in the earth, beneath the spreading chestnut-tree, rendered a home by those words of his Mother
Church--the mother who had guided each of his steps in his orphaned life. It was a distant
grave, far from his home and kindred, but in a hallowed spot, and a most fair one; and there
might his mortal frame meetly rest till the day when he should rise, while from their ancestral
tombs should likewise awaken the forefathers whose sins were indeed visited on him in his early
death; but, thanks to Him who giveth the victory, in death without the sting.

Amabel, in obedience to a sign from her mother, sat on a root of the tree while the Lesson
was read, and afterwards she moved forward and stood at the edge of the grave, her hands tightly
clasped, and her head somewhat raised, as if her spirit was following her husband to his repose
above, rather than to his earthly resting-place.

The service was ended, and she was taking a last long gaze, while her mother, in the utmost
anxiety, was striving to make up her mind to draw her away, when suddenly a tall gaunt figure
was among them--his face ghastly pale, and full of despair and bewilderment--his step uncertain--his
dress disordered.

Amabel turned, went up to him, laid her hand on his arm, and said, softly, and quietly looking
up in his face, 'It is over now, Philip; you had better come home.'

Not attempting to withstand her, he obeyed as if it was his only instinct. It was like some
vision of a guiding, succouring spirit, as she moved on, slowly gliding in her white draperies.
Mrs. Edmonstone watched her in unspeakable awe and amazement, almost overpowering her anxieties.
It seemed as impossible that the one should be Amy as that the other should be Philip, her
gentle little clinging daughter, or her proud, imperturbable, self-reliant nephew.

But it was Amy's own face, when they entered the corridor and she turned back her veil, showing
her flushed and heated cheeks, at the same time opening Philip's door and saying, 'Now you
must rest, for you ought not to have come out. Lie down, and let mamma read to you.'

Mrs. Edmonstone was reluctant, but Amy looked up earnestly and said, 'Yes, dear mamma, I should
like to be alone a little while.'

She then conducted her father to the sitting-room up-stairs.

'I will give you the papers,' she said; and leaving him, returned immediately.

'This is his will,' she said. 'You will tell me if there is anything I must do at once. Here
is a letter to Mr. Markham, and another to Mr. Dixon, if you will be so kind as to write and
enclose them. Thank you, dear papa.'

She drew a blotting-book towards him, saw that there was ink and pen, and left him too much
appalled at her ways to say anything.

His task was less hard than the one she had set her mother. Strong excitement had carried Philip
to the grave-yard as soon as he learnt what was passing. He could hardly return even with Arnaud's
support, and he had only just reached the sofa before he fell into a fainting-fit.

It was long before he gave any sign of returning life, and when he opened his eyes and saw
Mrs. Edmonstone, he closed them almost immediately, as if unable to meet her look. It was easier
to treat him in his swoon than afterwards. She knew nothing of his repentance and confession;
she only knew he had abused her confidence, led Laura to act insincerely, and been the cause
of Guy's death. She did not know how bitterly he accused himself, and though she could not
but see he was miserable, she could by no means fathom his wretchedness, nor guess that her
very presence made him conscious how far he was fallen. He was so ill that she could not manifest
her displeasure, nor show anything but solicitude for his relief; but her kindness was entirely
to his condition, not to himself; and perceiving this, while he thought his confession had
been received, greatly aggravated his distress, though he owned within himself that he well
deserved it.

She found that he was in no state for being read to; he was completely exhausted, and suffering
from violent headache. So when she could conscientiously say that to be left quiet was the
best thing for him, she went to her daughter.

Amabel was lying on her bed, her Bible open by her; not exactly reading, but as if she was
now and then finding a verse and dwelling on it. Gentle and serene she looked; but would she
never weep? would those quiet blue eyes be always sleepless and tearless?

She asked anxiously for Philip, and throughout the day he seemed to be her care. She did not
try to get up and go to him, but she was continually begging her mother to see about him. It
was a harassing day for poor Mrs. Edmonstone. She would have been glad to have sat by Amabel
all the time, writing to Charles, or hearing her talk. Amy had much to say, for she wished
to make her mother share the perfect peace and thankfulness that had been breathed upon her
during those last hours with her husband, and she liked to tell the circumstances of his illness
and his precious sayings, to one who would treasure them almost like herself. She spoke with
her face turned away, so as not to see her mother's tears, but her mild voice unwavering, as
if secure in the happiness of these recollections. This was the only comfort of Mrs. Edmonstone's
day, but when she heard her husband's boots creaking in the corridor, it was a sure sign that
he was in some perplexity, and that she must go and help him to write a letter, or make some
arrangement. Philip, too, needed attention; but excellent nurse as Mrs. Edmonstone was, she
only made him worse. The more he felt she was his kind aunt still, the more he saw how he had
wounded her, and that her pardon was an effort. The fond, spontaneous, unreserved affection--almost
petting--which he had well-nigh dared to contemn, was gone; her manner was only that of a considerate
nurse. Much as he longed for a word of Laura, he did not dare to lead to it,--indeed, he was
so far from speaking to her of any subject which touched him, that he did not presume even
to inquire for Amabel, he only heard of her through Arnaud.

At night sheer exhaustion worked its own cure; he slept soundly, and awoke in the morning revived.
He heard from Arnaud that Lady Morville was pretty well, but had not slept; and presently Mrs.
Edmonstone came in and took pains to make him comfortable, but with an involuntary dryness
of manner. She told him his uncle would come to see him as soon as he was up, if he felt equal
to talking over some business. Philip's brain reeled with dismay and consternation, for it
flashed on him that he was heir of Redclyffe. He must profit by the death he had caused; he
had slain, and he must take possession of the lands which, with loathing and horror, he remembered
that he had almost coveted. Nothing more was wanting. There was little consolation in remembering
that the inheritance would clear away all difficulties in the way of his marriage. He had sinned;
wealth did not alter his fault, and his spirit could not brook that if spurned in poverty,
he should be received for his riches. He honoured his aunt for being cold and reserved, and
could not bear the idea of seeing his uncle ready to meet him half-way.

After the first shock he became anxious to have the meeting over, know the worst, and hear
on what ground he stood with Laura. As soon as he was dressed, he sent a message to announce
that he was ready, and lay on the sofa awaiting his uncle's arrival, as patiently as he could.
Mr. Edmonstone, meantime, was screwing up his courage--not that he meant to say a word of Laura,--Philip
was too unwell to be told his opinion of him, but now he had ceased to rely on his nephew,
he began to dread him and his overbearing ways; and besides he had a perfect horror of witnessing
agitation.

At last he came, and Philip rose to meet him with a feeling of shame and inferiority most new
to him.

'Don't, don't, I beg,' said Mr. Edmonstone, with what was meant for dignity. 'Lie still; you
had much better. My stars! how ill you look!' he exclaimed, startled by Philip's altered face
and figure. 'You have had a sharpish touch; but you are better, eh?'

'Yes, thank you.'

'Well; I thought I had better come and speak to you, if you felt up to it. Here is--here is--I
hope it is all right and legal; but that you can tell better than I; and you are concerned
in it anyhow. Here is poor Guy's will, which we thought you had better look over, if you liked,
and felt equal, eh?'

'Thank you,' said Philip, holding out his hand; but Mr. Edmonstone withheld it, trying his
patience by an endless quantity of discursive half-sentences, apparently without connection
with each other, about disappointment, and hopes, and being sorry, and prospects, and its 'being
an unpleasant thing,' and 'best not raise his expectations:' during all which time Philip,
expecting to hear of Laura, and his heart beating so fast as to renew the sensation of faintness,
waited in vain, and strove to gather the meaning, and find out whether he was forgiven, almost
doubting whether the confusion was in his own mind or in his uncle's words. However, at last
the meaning bolted out in one comprehensive sentence, when Mr. Edmonstone thought he had sufficiently
prepared him for his disappointment,--'Poor Amy is to be confined in the spring.'

There Mr. Edmonstone stopped short, very much afraid of the effect; but Philip raised himself,
his face brightened, as if he was greatly relieved, and from his heart he exclaimed, 'Thank
Heaven!'

'That's right! that is very well said!' answered Mr. Edmonstone, very much pleased. 'It would
be a pity it should go out of the old line after all; and it's a very generous thing in you
to say so.'

'Oh no!' said Philip, shrinking into himself at even such praise as this.

'Well, well,' said his uncle, 'you will see he has thought of you, be it how it may. There!
I only hope it is right; though it does seem rather queer, appointing poor little Amy executor
rather than me. If I had but been here in time! But 'twas Heaven's will; and so--It does not
signify, after all, if it is not quite formal. We understand each other.'

The will was on a sheet of letter-paper, in Arnaud's stiff French handwriting; it was witnessed
by the two Mr. Morrises, and signed on the 27th of September, in very frail and feeble characters.
Amabel and Markham were the executors, and Amabel was to be sole guardian, in case of the birth
of a child. If it was a son, £1O,OOO was left to Philip himself; if not, he was to have all
the plate, furniture, &c., of Redclyffe, with the exception of whatever Lady Morville might
choose for herself.

Philip scarcely regarded the legacy (though it smoothed away his chief difficulties) as more
than another of those ill-requited benefits which were weighing him to the earth. He read on
to a sentence which reproached him so acutely, that he would willingly have hidden from it,
as he had done from Guy's countenance. It was the bequest of £5000 to Elizabeth Wellwood. Sebastian
Dixon's debts were to be paid off; £1000 was left to Marianne Dixon, and the rest of the personal
property was to be Amabel's.

He gave back the paper, with only the words 'Thank you.' He did not feel as if it was for him
to speak; and Mr. Edmonstone hesitated, made an attempt at congratulating him, broke down,
and asked if it was properly drawn up. He glanced at the beginning and end, said it was quite
correct, and laid his head down, as if the examination had been a great deal of trouble.

'And what do you think of Amy's being under age?' fidgeted on Mr. Edmonstone. 'How is she to
act, poor dear! Shall I act for her?'

'She will soon be of age,' said Philip, wearily.

'In January, poor darling. Who would have thought how it would have been with her? I little
thought, last May--but, holloa! what have I been at?' cried he, jumping up in a great fright,
as Philip, so weak as to be overcome by the least agitation, changed countenance, covered his
face with his hands, and turned away with a suppressed sob. 'I didn't mean it, I am sure! Here!
mamma!'

'No, no,' said Philip, recovering, and sitting up; 'don't call her, I beg. There is nothing
the matter.'

Mr. Edmonstone obeyed, but he was too much afraid of causing a renewal of agitation to continue
the conversation; and after walking about the room a little while, and shaking it more than
Philip could well bear, he went away to write his letters.

In the meantime, Amabel had been spending her morning in the same quiet way as the former day.
She wrote part of a letter to Laura, and walked to the graveyard, rather against her mother's
wish; but she was so good and obedient, it was impossible to thwart her, though Mrs. Edmonstone
was surprised at her proposal to join her father and Philip at tea. 'Do you like it, my dear?'

'He told me to take care of him,' said Amabel.

'I cannot feel that he deserves you should worry yourself about him,' said Mrs. Edmonstone.
'If you knew all--'

'I do know all, mamma,--if you mean about Laura. Surely you must forgive. Think how he repents.
What, have you not had his letter? Then how did you know?'

'I learned it from Laura herself. Her trouble at his illness revealed it. Do you say he has
written?'

'Yes, mamma; he told Guy all about it, and was very sorry, and wrote as soon as he was able.
Guy sent you a long message. He was so anxious about it.'

Amabel showed more eagerness to understand the state of the case, than she had about anything
else. She urged that Philip should be spoken to, as soon as possible, saying the suspense must
be grievous, and dwelling on his repentance. Mrs. Edmonstone promised to speak to papa, and
this satisfied her; but she held her resolution of meeting Philip that evening, looking on
him as a charge left her by her husband, and conscious that, as she alone understood how deep
was his sorrow, she could make the time spent with her parents less embarrassing.

Her presence always soothed him, and regard for her kept her father quiet; so that the evening
passed off very well. Mrs. Edmonstone waited on both; and, in Amy's presence, was better able
to resume her usual manner towards her nephew, and he sat wondering at the placidity of Amy's
pale face. Her hair was smoothed back, and she wore a cap,--the loss of her long shady curls
helping to mark the change from the bright days of her girlhood; but the mournfulness of her
countenance did not mar the purity and serenity that had always been its great characteristic;
and in the faint sweet smile with which she received a kind word or attention, there was a
likeness to that peculiar and beautiful expression of her husband's, so as, in spite of the
great difference of feature and colouring, to give her a resemblance to him.

All this day had been spent by Mr. Edmonstone in a fret to get away from Recoara, and his wife
was hardly less desirous to leave it than himself, for she could have no peace or comfort about
Amabel, till she had her safely at home. Still she dreaded proposing the departure, and even
more the departure itself; and, in spite of Mr. Edmonstone's impatience, she let her alone
till she had her mourning; but when, after two days of hard work, Anne had nearly managed to
complete it, she made up her mind to tell her daughter that they ought to set out.

Amabel replied by mentioning Philip. She deemed him a sort of trust, and had been reposing
in the thought of making him a reason for lingering in the scene where the brightness of her
life had departed from her. Mrs. Edmonstone would not allow that she ought to remain for his
sake, and told her it was her duty to resolve to leave the place. She said, 'Yes, but for him;'
and it ended in Mrs. Edmonstone going, without telling her, to inform him that she thought
Amy ought to be at home as soon as possible; but that it was difficult to prevail on her, because
she thought him as yet not well enough to be left. He was, of course, shocked at being thus
considered, and as soon as he next saw Amabel, told her, with great earnestness, that he could
not bear to see her remaining there on his account; that he was almost well, and meant to leave
Recoara very soon; the journey was very easy, the sea voyage would be the best thing for him,
and he should be glad to get to the regimental doctor at Corfu.

Amabel sighed, and knew she ought to be convinced. The very pain it gave her to lose sight
of that green, grave, the chestnut-tree, and the white mountain; to leave the rooms and passages
which still, to her ears, were haunted by Guy's hushed step and voice, and to part with the
window where she used each wakeful night to retrace his profile as he had stood pausing before
telling her of his exceeding happiness; that very pain made her think that opposition would
be selfish. She must go some time or other, and it was foolish to defer the struggle; she must
not detain her parents in an infected place, nor keep her mother from Charles. She therefore
consented, and let them do what they pleased,--only insisting on Arnaud's being left with Philip.

Philip did not think this necessary, but yielded, when she urged it as a relief to her own
mind; and Arnaud, though unwilling, and used to his own way, could make no objection when she
asked it as a personal favour. Arnaud was, at his own earnest wish, to continue in her service;
and, as soon as Philip was able to embark, was to follow her to Hollywell.

All this time nothing passed about Laura. Amabel asked several times whether papa had spoken,
but was always answered, 'Not yet;' and at last Mrs. Edmonstone, after vainly trying to persuade
him, was obliged to give it up. The truth was, he could not begin; he was afraid of his nephew,
and so unused to assume superiority over him that he did not know what to do, and found all
kinds of reasons for avoiding the embarrassing scene. Since Philip still must be dealt with
cautiously, better not enter on the subject at all. When reminded that the suspense was worse
than anything, he said, no one could tell how things would, turn out, and grew angry with his
wife for wishing him to make up a shameful affair like that, when poor Guy had not been dead
a week, and he had been the death of him; but it was just like mamma, she always spoilt him.
He had a great mind to vow never to consent to his daughter's marrying such an overbearing,
pragmatical fellow; she ought to be ashamed of even thinking of him, when he was no better
than her brother's murderer.

After this tirade, Mrs. Edmonstone might well feel obliged to tell Amabel, that papa must not
be pressed any further; and, of course, if he would not speak, she could not (nor did she wish it).

'Then, mamma,' said Amabel, with the air of decision that had lately grown on her, 'I must
tell him. I beg your pardon,' she added, imploringly; 'but indeed I must. It is hard on him
not to hear that you had not his letter, and that Laura has told. I know Guy would wish me,
so don't be displeased, dear mamma.'

'I can't be displeased with anything you do.'

'And you give me leave?'

'To be sure I do,--leave to do anything but hurt yourself.'

'And would it be wrong for me to offer to write to him? No one else will, and it will be sad
for him not to hear. It cannot be wrong, can it?' said she, as the fingers of her right hand
squeezed her wedding-ring, a habit she had taken up of late.

'Certainly not, my poor darling. Do just as you think fit. I am sorry for him, for I am sure
he is in great trouble, and I should like him to be comforted--if he can. But, Amy, you must
not ask me to do it. He has disappointed me too much.'

Mrs. Edmonstone left the room in tears.

Amabel went up to the window, looked long at the chestnut-tree, then up into the sky, sat down,
and leant her forehead on her hand in meditation, until she rose up, cheered and sustained,
as if she had been holding council with her husband.

She did not over-estimate Philip's sufferings from suspense and anxiety. He had not heard a
word of Laura; how she had borne his illness, nor how much displeasure his confession had brought
upon her; nor could he learn what hope there was that his repentance was accepted. He did not
venture to ask; for after engaging to leave all to them, could he intrude his own concerns
on them at such a time? It was but a twelvemonth since he had saddened and shadowed Guy's short
life and love with the very suffering from uncertainty that he found so hard to bear. As he
remembered this, he had a sort of fierce satisfaction in enduring this retributive justice;
though there were moods when he felt the torture so acutely, that it seemed to him as if his
brain would turn if he saw them depart, and was left behind to this distracting doubt.

The day had come, on which they were to take their first stage, as far as Vicenza, and his
last hopes were fading. He tried to lose the sense of misery by bestirring himself in the preparations;
but he was too weak, and Mrs. Edmonstone, insisting on his attempting no more, sent him back:
to his own sitting-room.

Presently there was a knock, and in came Amabel, dressed, for the first time, in her weeds,
the blackness and width of her sweeping crape making her young face look smaller and paler,
while she held in her hand some leaves of chestnut, that showed where she had been. She smiled
a little as she came in, saying, 'I am come to you for a little quiet, out of the bustle of
packing up. I want you to do something for me.'

'Anything for you.'

'It is what you will like to do,' said she, with that smile, 'for it is more for him than for
me. Could you, without teasing yourself, put that into Latin for me, by and by? I think it
should be in Latin, as it is in a foreign country.'

She gave him a paper in her own writing.

GUY MORVILLE, OF REDCLYFFE, ENGLAND. DIED THE EVE OF ST. MICHAEL AND ALL ANGELS, 18--AGED 21
1/2. I BELIEVE IN THE COMMUNION OF SAINTS.

'Will you be so kind as to give it to Arnaud when it is done?' she continued; 'he will send
it to the man who is making the cross. I think the kind people here will respect it.'

'Yes,' said Philip,' it is soon done, and thank you for letting me do it. But, Amy, I would
not alter your choice; yet there is one that seems to me more applicable "Greater love hath
no man--"'

'I know what you mean,' said Amy; 'but that has so high a meaning that he could not bear it
to be applied to him.'

'Or rather, what right have I to quote it?' said Philip, bitterly. 'His friend! I am sure they
are burning on mine,' and he pressed his hand on his forehead.

'Don't say such things. We both know that, at the worst of times, he looked on you as a sincere
friend.'

Philip groaned, and she thought it best to go on to something else. 'I like this best,' she
said. 'It will be nice to think of far away. I should like, too, for these Italians to see
the stranger has the same creed as themselves.'

After a moment's pause, during which he looked at the paper, he said, 'Amy, I have one thing
to ask of you. Will you write my name in the Prayer-book?'

'That I will,' said she, and Philip drew it from under the sofa cushion, and began putting
together his pocket gold pen. While he was doing this, she said, 'Will you write to me sometimes?
I shall be so anxious to know how you get on.'

'Yes, thank you,' said he; with a sigh, as if he would fain have said more.

She paused; then said, abruptly, 'Do you know they never had your letter?'

'Ha! Good heavens!' cried he, starting up in consternation; 'then they don't know it!'

'They do. Sit down, Philip, and hear. I wanted to tell you about it. They know it. Poor Laura
was so unhappy when you were ill, that mamma made it out from her.'

He obeyed the hand that invited him back to his seat, and turned his face earnestly towards
her. He must let her be his comforter, though a moment before his mind would have revolted
at troubling the newly-made widow with his love affairs. Amabel told him, as fully and clearly
as she could, how the truth had come out, how gently Laura had been dealt with, how Charles
had been trying to soften his father, and papa had not said one angry word to her.

'They forgive her. Oh, Amy, thanks indeed! You have taken away one of the heaviest burdens.
I am glad, indeed, that she spoke first. For my own part, I see through all their kindness
and consideration how they regard me.'

'They know how sorry you are, and that you wrote to tell all,' said Amabel. 'They forgive,
indeed they do; but they cannot bear to speak about it just yet.'

'If you forgive, Amy,' said he, in a husky voice, 'I may hope for pardon from any.'

'Hush! don't say that. You have been so kind, all this time, and we have felt together so much,
that no one could help forgetting anything that went before. Then you will write to me; and
will you tell me how to direct to you?'

'You will write to me?' cried Philip, brightening for a moment with glad surprise. 'Oh, Amy,
you will quite overpower me with your goodness!--The coals of fire,' he finished, sinking his
voice, and again pressing his hand to his brow.

'You must not speak so, Philip,' then looking at him, 'Is your head aching?'

'Not so much aching as--' he paused, and exclaimed, as if carried away in spite of himself,
'almost bursting with the thoughts of--of you, Amy,--of him whom I knew too late,--wilfully
misunderstood, envied, persecuted; who,--oh! Amy, Amy, if you could guess at the anguish of
but one of my thoughts, you would know what the first murderer meant when he said, "My punishment
is greater than I can bear."'

'I can't say don't think,' said Amy, in her sweet, calm tone; 'for I have seen how happy repentance
made him, but I know it must be dreadful. I suppose the worse it is at the time, the better
it must be afterwards. And I am sure this Prayer-book'--she had her hand on it all the time,
as if it was a pleasure to her to touch it again--'must be a comfort to you. Did you not see
that he made me give it to you to use that day, when, if ever, there was pardon and peace--'

'I remember,' said Philip, in a low, grave, heartfelt tone; and as she took the pen, and was
writing his name below the old inscription, he added, 'And the date, Amy, and--yes,' as he
saw her write 'From G. M.'--'but put from A. F. M. too. Thank you! One thing more;' he hesitated,
and spoke very low, 'You must write in it what you said when you came to fetch me that day,--"A
broken"'--

As she finished writing, Mrs. Edmonstone came in. 'My Amy, all is ready. We must go. Good-bye,
Philip,' said she, in the tone of one so eager for departure as to fancy farewells would hasten
it. However, she was not more eager than Mr. Edmonstone, who rushed in to hurry them on, shaking
hands cordially with Philip, and telling him to make haste and recover his good looks. Amabel
held out her hand. She would fain have said something cheering, but the power failed her. A
deep colour came into her cheeks; she drew her thick black veil over her face, and turned away.

Philip came down-stairs with them, saw her enter the carriage followed by her mother, Mr. Edmonstone
outside. He remembered the gay smile with which he last saw her seated in that carriage, and
the active figure that had sprung after her; he thought of the kind bright eyes that had pleaded
with him for the last time, and recollected the suspicions and the pride with which he had
plumed himself on his rejection, and thrown away the last chance.

Should he ever see Amabel again? He groaned and went back to the deserted rooms.

CHAPTER 37

                                And see
     If aught of sprightly, fresh, or free,
     With the calm sweetness may compare
     Of the pale form half slumbering there.
     Therefore this one dear couch about
     We linger hour by hour:
     The love that each to each we bear,
     All treasures of enduring care,
     Into her lap we pour.
                         --LYRA INNOCENTUM

The brother and sisters, left at home together, had been a very sad and silent party, unable
to attempt comforting each other. Charlotte's grief was wild and ungovernable; breaking out
into fits of sobbing, and attending to nothing till she was abashed first by a reproof from
Mr. Ross, and next by the description of Amabel's conduct; when she grew ashamed and set herself
to atone, by double care, for her neglect of Charles's comforts.

Charles, however, wanted her little. He had rather be let alone. After one exclamation of,
'My poor Amy!' he said not a word of lamentation, but lay hour after hour without speaking,
dwelling on the happy days he had spent with Guy,--companion, friend, brother,--the first beam
that had brightened his existence, and taught him to make it no longer cheerless; musing on
the brilliant promise that had been cut off; remembering his hopes for his most beloved sister,
and feeling his sorrow with imagining hers. It was his first grief, and a very deep one. He
seemed to have no comfort but in Mr. Ross, who contrived to come to him every day, and would
tell him how fully he shared his affection and admiration for Guy, how he had marvelled at
his whole character, as it had shown itself more especially at the time of his marriage, when
his chastened temper had been the more remarkable in so young a man, with the world opening
on him so brightly. As to the promise lost, that, indeed, Mr. Ross owned, and pleased Charles
by saying how he had hoped to watch its fulfilment; but he spoke of its having been, in truth,
no blight, only that those fair blossoms were removed where nothing could check their full
development or mar their beauty. 'The hope in earthly furrows sown, would ripen in the sky;'
Charles groaned, saying it was hard not to see it, and they might speak as they would, but
that would not comfort him in thinking of his sister. What was his sorrow to hers? But Mr.
Ross had strong trust in Amabel's depth and calm resignation. He said her spirit of yielding
would support her, that as in drowning or falling, struggling is fatal, when quietness saves,
so it would be with her: and that even in this greatest of all trials she would rise instead
of being crushed, with all that was good and beautiful in her purified and refined. Charles
heard, strove to believe and be consoled, and brought out his letters, trying, with voice breaking
down, to show Mr. Ross how truly he had judged of Amy, then listened with a kind of pleasure
to the reports of the homely but touching laments of all the village.

Laura did not, like her brother and sister, seek for consolation from Mr. Ross or Mary. She
went on her own way, saying little, fulfilling her household cares, writing all the letters
that nobody else would write, providing for Charles's ease, and looking thoroughly cast down
and wretched, but saying nothing; conscious that her brother and sister did not believe her
affection for Guy equal to theirs; and Charles was too much dejected, and too much displeased
with Philip, to try to console her.

It was a relief to hear, at length, that the travellers had landed, and would be at home in
the evening, not till late, wrote Mrs. Edmonstone, because she thought it best for Amabel to
go at once to her room, her own old room, for she particularly wished not to be moved from it.

The evening had long closed in; poor Bustle had been shut up in Charlotte's room, and the three
sat together round the fire, unable to guess how they should meet her, and thinking how they
had lately been looking forward to greeting their bride, as they used proudly to call her.
Charles dwelt on that talk on the green, and his 'when shall we three meet again?' and spoke
not a word; Laura tried to read; and Charlotte heard false alarms of wheels; but all were so
still, that when the wheels really came, they were heard all down the turnpike road, and along
the lane, before they sounded on the gravel drive.

Laura and Charlotte ran into the hall, Charles reached his crutches, but his hands shook so
much that he could not adjust them, and was obliged to sit down, rising the next minute as
the black figures entered together. Amy's sweet face was pressed to his, but neither spoke.
That agitated 'My dear, dear Charlie!' was his mother's, as she threw her arms around him,
with redoubled kisses and streaming tears; and there was a trembling tone in his father's 'Well,
Charlie boy, how have you got on without us?'

They sat down, Charles with his sister beside him, and holding a hand steadier than his own,
but hot and feverish to the touch. He leant forward to look at her face, and, as if in answer,
she turned it on him. It was the old face, paler and thinner, and the eyelids had a hard reddened
look, from want of sleep: but Charles, like his mother at first, was almost awed by the melancholy
serenity of the expression. 'Have you been quite well?' she asked, in a voice which sounded
strangely familiar, in its fond, low tones.

'Yes, quite.'

There was a pause, followed by an interchange of question and answer between the others, on
the journey, and on various little home circumstances. Presently Mrs. Edmonstone said Amy had
better come up-stairs.

'I have not seen Bustle,' said Amy, looking at Charlotte.

'He is in my room,' faltered Charlotte.

'I should like to see him.'

Charlotte hastened away, glad to wipe her tears when outside the door. Poor Bustle had been
watching for his master ever since his departure, and hearing the sounds of arrival, was wild
to escape from his prison. He rushed out the moment the door was open, and was scratching to
be let into the drawing-room before Charlotte could come up with him. He dashed in, laid his
head on Amabel's knee, and wagged his tail for welcome; gave the same greeting to Mr. and Mrs.
Edmonstone, but only for a moment, for he ran restlessly seeking round the room, came to the
door, and by his wistful looks made Charlotte let him out. She followed him, and dropping on
her knees as soon as she was outside, pressed her forehead to his glossy black head, whispered
that it was of no use, he would never come back. The dog burst from her, and the next moment
was smelling and wagging his tail at a portmanteau, which he knew as well as she did, and she
could hardly refrain from a great outburst of sobbing as she thought what joy its arrival had
hitherto been.

Suddenly Bustle bounded away, and as Charlotte stood trying to compose herself enough to return
to the drawing-room, she heard the poor fellow whining to be let in at Guy's bed-room door.
At the same time the drawing-room door opened, and anxious that Amy should neither see nor
hear him, she ran after him, admitted him, and shut herself in with him in the dark, where,
with her hands in his long silky curls, and sitting on the ground, she sobbed over him as long
as he would submit to her caresses.

Amabel meantime returned to her room, and looked round on its well-known aspect with a sad
smile, as she thought of the prayer with which she had quitted it on her bridal day, and did
not feel as if it had been unanswered; for surely the hand of a Father had been with her to
support her through her great affliction.

Though she said she was very well, her mother made her go to bed at once, and Laura attended
on her with a sort of frightened, respectful tenderness, hardly able to bear her looks of gratitude.
The first time the two sisters were alone, Amabel said, 'Philip is much better.'

Laura, who was settling some things on the table, started back and coloured, then, unable to
resist the desire of hearing of him, looked earnestly at her sister.

'He is gone to Corfu,' continued Amabel. 'He only kept Arnaud three days after we were gone,
and Arnaud overtook us at Geneva, saying his strength had improved wonderfully. Will you give
me my basket? I should like to read you a piece of a note he sent me.'

Laura brought it, and Amabel, holding her hand, looked up at her face, which she vainly tried
to keep in order. 'Dearest, I have been very sorry for you, and so has Guy.'

'Amy!' and Laura found herself giving way to her tears, in spite of all her previous exhortations
to Charlotte, about self-control; 'my own, own sister!' To have Amy at home was an unspeakable
comfort.

'Papa and mamma were both as kind as possible to Philip,' continued Amabel; 'but they could
not bear to enter on that. So I told him you had told all, and he was very glad.'

'He was not displeased at my betraying him?' exclaimed Laura. 'Oh, no! he was glad; he said
it was a great relief, for he was very anxious about you, Laura. He has been so kind to me,'
said Amabel, so earnestly, that Laura received another comfort, that of knowing that her sister's
indignation against him had all passed by. 'Now I will read you what he says. You see his writing
is quite itself again.'

But Laura observed that Amabel only held towards her the 'Lady Morville' on the outside, keeping
the note to herself, and reading, 'I have continued to gain strength since you went; so that
there is no further need of detaining Arnaud. I have twice been out of doors, and am convinced
that I am equal to the journey; indeed, it is hardly possible for me to endure remaining here
any longer.' She read no more, but folded it up, saying, 'I had rather no one saw the rest.
He makes himself so unhappy about that unfortunate going to Sondrio, that he says what is only
painful to hear. I am glad he is able to join his regiment, for a change will be the best thing
for him.'

She laid her head on the pillow as if she had done with the subject, and Laura did not venture
to pursue it, but went down to hear her mother's account of her.

Mrs. Edmonstone was feeling it a great comfort to have her son to talk to again, and availed
herself of it to tell him of Philip, while Laura was absent, and then to return to speak of
Amy on Laura's re-entrance. She said, all through the journey, Amy had been as passive and
tranquil as possible, chiefly leaning back in the carriage in silence, excepting that when
they finally left the view of the snowy mountains, she gazed after them as long as the least
faint cloud-like summit was visible. Still she could not sleep, except that now and then she
dozed a little in the carriage, but at night she heard every hour strike in turn, and lay awake
through all, nor had she shed one tear since her mother had joined her. Mrs. Edmonstone's anxiety
was very great, for she said she knew Amy must pay for that unnatural calmness, and the longer
it was before it broke down, the worse it would be for her. However, she was at home, that
was one thing to be thankful for, and happen what might, it could not be as distressing as
if it had been abroad.

Another night of 'calm unrest,' and Amabel rose in the morning, at her usual hour, to put on
the garments of her widowhood, where she had last stood as a bride. Charles was actually startled
by her entering the dressing-room, just as she used to do, before breakfast, to read with him,
and her voice was as steady as ever. She breakfasted with the family, and came up afterwards
with Laura, to unpack her dressing-case, and take out the little treasures that she and her
husband had enjoyed buying in the continental towns, as presents for the home party.

All this, for which she had previously prepared herself, she underwent as quietly as possible;
but something unexpected came on her. Charlotte, trying to pet and comfort her in every possible
way, brought in all the best flowers still lingering in the garden, and among them a last blossom
of the Noisette rose, the same of which Guy had been twisting a spray, while he first told
her of his love.

It was too much. It recalled his perfect health and vigour, his light activity, and enjoyment
of life, and something came on her of the sensation we feel for an insect, one moment full
of joyous vitality, the next, crushed and still. She had hitherto thought of his feverish thirst
and fainting weariness being at rest, and felt the relief, or else followed his spirit to its
repose, and rejoiced; but now the whole scene brought back what he once was; his youthful,
agile frame, his eyes dancing in light, his bounding step, his gay whistle, the strong hand
that had upheld her on the precipice, the sure foot that had carried aid to the drowning sailors,
the arm that was to have been her stay for life, all came on her in contrast with--death! The
thought swept over her, carrying away every other, and she burst into tears.

The tears would have their course; she could not restrain them when once they began, and her
struggles to check them only brought an increase of them. Her sobs grew so violent that Laura,
much alarmed, made a sign to Charlotte to fetch her mother; and Mrs. Edmonstone, coming in
haste, found it was indeed the beginning of a frightful hysterical attack. The bodily frame
had been overwrought to obey the mental firmness and composure, and now nature asserted her
rights; the hysterics returned again and again, and when it seemed as if exhaustion had at
length produced quiet, the opening of a door, or a sound in the distance, would renew all again.

It was not till night had closed in that Mrs. Edmonstone was at all satisfied about her, and
had at length the comfort of seeing her fall into a sound deep sleep; such an unbroken dreamless
sleep as had scarcely visited her since she first went to Recoara. Even this sleep did not
restore her; she became very unwell, and both Dr. Mayerne and her mother insisted on her avoiding
the least exertion or agitation. She was quite submissive, only begging earnestly to be allowed
to see Mr. Ross, saying she knew it would do her good rather than harm, and promising to let
him leave her the instant she found it too much for her; and though Mrs. Edmonstone was reluctant
and afraid, they agreed that as she was so reasonable and docile, she ought to be allowed to
judge for herself.

She begged that he might come after church on All Saints' day. He came, and after his first
greeting of peace, Mrs. Edmonstone signed to him to read at once, instead of speaking to her.
The beautiful lesson for the day overcame Mrs. Edmonstone so much that she was obliged to go
out of Amabel's sight, but as the words were read, Amy's face recovered once more the serenity
that had been swept away by the sight of the flowers. Peace had returned, and when the calm
every-day words of the service were over, she held out her hand to Mr. Ross, and said, 'Thank
you, that was very nice. Now talk to me.'

It was a difficult request, but Mr. Ross understood her, and talked to her as she sought, in
a gentle, deep, high strain of hope and faith, very calm and soothing, and with a fatherly
kindness that was very pleasant from him who had baptized her, taught her, and whom she had
last seen blessing her and her husband. It ended by her looking up to him when it was time
for him to go, and saying, 'Thank you. You will come again when you have time, I hope. My love
to dear Mary, I should like to see her soon, but I knew you would do me more good than anybody,
and know better how it feels.'

Mr. Ross knew she meant that he must better understand her loss, because he was a widower,
and was greatly touched, though he only answered by a blessing, a farewell, and a promise to
come very soon to see her again.

Amabel was right, the peace which he had recalled, and the power of resignation that had returned,
had a better effect on her than all her mother's precautions; she began to improve, and in
a few days more was able to leave her bed, and lie on the sofa in the dressing-room, though
she was still so weak and languid that this was as much as she could attempt. Any exertion
was to be carefully guarded against, and her tears now flowed so easily, that she was obliged
to keep a check on them lest they might again overpower her. Mr. Ross came again and again,
and she was able to tell him much of the grounds for her great happiness in Guy, hear how entirely
he had understood him, and be assured that she had done right, and not taken an undue responsibility
on herself by the argument she had used to summon Philip, that last evening. She had begun
to make herself uneasy about this; for she said she believed she was thinking of nothing but
Guy, and had acted on impulse; and she was very glad Mr. Ross did not think it wrong, while
Mr. Ross meanwhile was thinking how fears and repentance mingle with the purest sweetest, holiest
deeds.

She was able now to take pleasure in seeing Mary Ross; she wrote to Philip at Corfu, and sent
for Markham to begin to settle the executor's business. Poor Markham! the Edmonstones thought
he looked ten years older when he arrived, and after his inquiry for Lady Morville, his grunt
almost amounted to a sob. The first thing he did was to give Mrs. Edmonstone a note, and a
little box sent from Mrs. Ashford. The note was to say that Mrs. Ashford had intended for her
wedding present, a little cross made out of part of the wood of the wreck, which she now thought
it beat to send to Mrs. Edmonstone, that she might judge whether Lady Morville would like to
see it.

Mrs. Edmonstone's judgment was to carry it at once to Amabel, and she was right, for the pleasure
she took in it was indescribable. She fondled it, set it up by her on her little table, made
Charlotte put it in different places that she might see what point of view suited it best,
had it given back to her, held it in her hands caressingly, and said she must write at once
to Mrs. Ashford to thank her for understanding her so well. There was scarcely one of the mourners
to be pitied more than Markham, for the love he had set on Sir Guy had been intense, compounded
of feudal affection, devoted admiration, and paternal care--and that he, the very flower of
the whole race, should thus have been cut down in the full blossom of his youth and hopes,
was almost more than the old man could bear or understand. It was a great sorrow, too, that
he should be buried so far away from his forefathers; and the hearing it was by his own desire,
did not satisfy him, he sighed over it still, and seemed to derive a shade of comfort only
when he was told there was to be a tablet in Redclyffe church to the memory of Guy, sixth baronet.

In the evening Markham became very confidential with Charles; telling him about the grievous
mourning and lamentation at Redclyffe, when the bells rung a knell instead of greeting the
young master and his bride, and how there was scarcely one in the parish that did not feel
as if they had lost a son or a brother. He also told more and more of Sir Guy's excellence,
and talked of fears of his own, especially last Christmas; that the boy was too unlike other
people, too good to live; and lastly, he indulged in a little abuse of Captain Morville, which
did Charles's heart good, at the same time as it amused him to think how Markham would recollect
it, when he came to hear of Laura's engagement.

In the course of the next day, Markham had his conference with Lady Morville in the dressing-room,
and brought her two or three precious parcels, which he would not, for the world, have given
into any other hands. He could hardly bear to look at her in her widow's cap, and behaved to
her with a manner varying between his deference and respect to the Lady of Redclyffe, and his
fatherly fondness for the wife of 'his boy.' As to her legal powers, he would have thought
them foolishly bestowed, if they had been conferred by any one save his own Sir Guy, and he
began by not much liking to act with her; but he found her so clear-headed, that he was much
surprised to find a woman could have so much good sense, and began to look forward with some
satisfaction to being her prime minister. They understood each other very well; Amabel's good
sense and way of attending to the one matter in hand, kept her from puzzling and alarming herself
by thinking she had more to do than she could ever understand or accomplish; she knew it was
Guy's work, and a charge he had given her,--a great proof of his confidence,--and she did all
that was required of her very well, so that matters were put in train to be completed when
she should be of age, in the course of the next January.

When Markham left her she was glad to be alone, and to open her parcels. There was nothing
here to make her hysterical, for she was going to contemplate the living soul, and felt almost,
as if it was again being alone with her husband. There were his most prized and used books,
covered with marks and written notes; there was Laura's drawing of Sintram, which had lived
with him in his rooms at Oxford; there was a roll of music, and there was his desk. The first
thing when she opened it was a rough piece of spar, wrapped in paper, on which was written,
'M. A. D., Sept. 18.' She remembered what he had told her of little Marianne's gift. The next
thing made her heart thrill, for it was a slip of pencilling in her own writing, 'Little things,
on little wings, bear little souls to heaven.'

Her own letters tied up together, those few that she had written in the short time they were
separated just before their marriage! Could that be only six months ago? A great bundle of
Charles's and of Mrs. Edmonstone's; those she might like to read another time, but not now.
Many other papers letters signed S. B. Dixon, which she threw aside, notes of lectures, and
memoranda, only precious for the handwriting; but when she came to the lower division; she
found it full of verses, almost all the poetry he had ever written.

There were the classical translations that used to make him inaccurate, a scrap of a very boyish
epic about King Arthur, beginning with a storm at Tintagel, sundry half ballads, the verses
he was suspected of, and never would show, that first summer at Hollywell, and a very touching
vision of his fair young mother. Except a translation or two, some words written to suit their
favourite airs (a thing that used to seem to come as easily to him as singing to a bird), and
a few lively mock heroic accounts of walks or parties, which had all been public property,
there was no more that she could believe to have been composed till last year, for he was more
disposed to versify in sorrow than in joy. There were a good many written during his loneliness,
for his reflections had a tendency to flow into verse, and pouring them out thus had been a
great solace. The lines were often imperfect and irregular, but not one that was not deep,
pure, and genuine, and here and there scattered with passages of exquisite beauty and harmony,
and full of power and grace. No one could have looked at them without owning in them the marks
of a thorough poet, but this was not what the wife was seeking, and when she perceived it,
though it made her face beam with a sort of satisfied pride, it was a secondary thing. She
was studying not his intellect, but his soul; she did not care whether he would have been a
poet, what she looked for was the record of the sufferings and struggles of the sad six months
when his character was established, strengthened, and settled.

She found it. There was much to which she alone had the clue, too deep, and too obscurely hinted,
to be understood at a glance. She met with such evidence of suffering as made her shudder and
weep, tokens of the dark thoughts that had gathered round him, of the manful spirit of penitence
and patience that had been his stay, and of the gleams that lighted his darkest hours, and
showed he had never been quite forsaken. Now and then came a reference which brought home what
he had told her; how the thought of his Verena had cheered him when he dared not hope she would
be restored. Best of all were the lines written when the radiance of Christmas was, once for
all, dispersing the gloom, and the vision opening on him, which he was now realizing. In reading
them, she felt the same marvellous sympathy of subdued wondering joy in the victory of which
she had partaken as she knelt beside his death-bed. These were the last. He had been too happy
for poetry, except one or two scraps in Switzerland, and these had been hers from the time
she had detected them.

No wonder Amabel almost lived on those papers! It would not be too much to say she was very
happy in her own way when alone with them; the desk on a chair by her sofa. They were too sacred
for any one else; she did not for many weeks show one even to her mother; but to her they were
like a renewal of his presence, soothing the craving after him that had been growing on her
ever since the first few days when his sustaining power had not passed away. As she sorted
them, and made out their dates, finding fresh stores of meaning at each fresh perusal she learnt
through them, as well as through her own trial, so patiently borne, to enter into his character
even more fully than when he was in her sight. Mrs. Edmonstone, who had at first been inclined
to dread her constant dwelling on them, soon perceived that they were her great aids through
this sad winter.

She had much pleasure in receiving the portrait, which was sent her by Mr. Shene. It was a
day or two before she could resolve to look at it, or feel that she could do so calmly. It
was an unfinished sketch, taken more with a view to the future picture than to the likeness;
but Guy's was a face to be better represented by being somewhat idealized, than by copying
merely the material form of the features. An ordinary artist might have made him like a Morville,
but Mr. Shene had shown all that art could convey of his individual self, with almost one of
his unearthly looks. The beautiful eyes, with somewhat of their peculiar lightsomeness, the
flexible look of the lip, the upward pose of the head, the set of that lock of hair that used
to wave in the wind, the animated position, 'just ready for a start,' as Charles used to call
it, were recalled as far as was in the power of chalk and crayon, but so as to remind Amabel
of him more as one belonging to heaven than to earth. The picture used to be on her mantel-shelf
all night, the shipwreck cross before it, and Sintram and Redclyffe on each side; and she brought
it into the dressing-room with her in the morning, setting it up opposite to the sofa, before
settling herself.

Her days were much alike. She felt far from well, or capable of exertion, and was glad it was
thought right to keep her entirely upstairs; she only wished to spare her mother anxiety, by
being submissive to her care, in case these cares should be the last for her. She did not dwell
on the future, nor ask herself whether she looked for life or death. Guy had bidden her not
desire the last, and she believed she did not form a wish; but there was repose to her in the
belief that she ought not to conceal from herself that there was more than ordinary risk, and
that it was right to complete all her affairs in this world, and she was silent when her mother
tried to interest her in prospects that might cheer her; as if afraid to fasten on them, and
finding more peace in entire submission, than in feeding herself on hope that must be coupled
with fear.

Christmas-day was not allowed to pass without being a festival for her, in her quiet room,
where she lay, full of musings on his lonely Christmas night last year, his verses folded among
her precious books, and the real joy of the season more within her grasp than in the turmoil
of last year. She was not afraid now to let herself fancy his voice in the Angel's Song, and
the rainbow was shining on her cloud.

CHAPTER 38

     The coldness from my heart is gone,
     But still the weight is there,
     And thoughts which I abhor will come
     To tempt me to despair.
                            --SOUTHEY

Amabel's one anxiety was for Philip. For a long time nothing was heard of him at Hollywell,
and she began to fear that he might have been less fit to take care of himself than he had
persuaded her to believe. When at length tidings reached them, it was through the De Courcys.
'Poor Morville,' wrote Maurice, 'had been carried ashore at Corfu, in the stupor of a second
attack of fever. He had been in extreme danger for some time, and though now on the mend, was
still unable to give any account of himself.'

In effect, it was a relapse of the former disease, chiefly affecting the brain, and his impatience
to leave Recoara, and free himself from Arnaud, had been a symptom of its approach, though
it fortunately did not absolutely overpower him till after he had embarked for Corfu, and was
in the way to be tended with the greatest solicitude. Long after the fever was subdued, and
his strength returning, his mind was astray, and even when torturing delusions ceased, and
he resumed the perception of surrounding objects, memory and reflection wavered in dizzy confusion,
more distressing than either his bodily weakness, or the perpetual pain in his head, which
no remedy could relieve.

The first date to which he could afterwards recur, though for more than a week he had apparently
been fully himself, was a time when he was sitting in an easy-chair by the window, obliged
to avert his heavy eyes from the dazzling waters of the Corcyran bay, where Ulysses' transformed
ship gleamed in the sunshine, and the rich purple hills of Albania sloped upwards in the distance.
James Thorndale was, as usual, with him, and was explaining that there had been a consultation
between the doctor and the colonel, and they had decided that as there was not much chance
of restoring his health in that climate in the spring.

'Spring!' he interrupted, with surprise and eagerness, 'Is it spring?'

'Hardly--except that there is no winter here. This is the 8th of January.'

He let his head fall on his hand again, and listened with indifference when told he was to
be sent to England at once, under the care of his servant, Bolton, and Mr. Thorndale himself,
who was resolved to see him safe in his sister's hands. He made no objection; he had become
used to be passive, and one place was much the same to him as another; so he merely assented,
without a question about the arrangements. Presently, however, he looked up, and inquired for
his letters. Though he had done so before, the request had always been evaded, until now he
spoke in a manner which decided his friend on giving him all except one with broad black edges,
and Broadstone post-mark; the effect of which, it was thought, might be very injurious to his
shattered nerves and spirits.

However, he turned over the other letters without interest, just glancing languidly through
them, looked disappointed, and exclaimed--

'None from Hollywell! Has nothing been heard from them? Thorndale, I insist on knowing whether
De Courcy has heard anything of Lady Morville.'

'He has heard of her arrival in England.'

'My sister mentions that--more than two months ago--I can hardly believe she has not written,
if she was able. She promised, yet how can I expect--' then interrupting himself, he added,
authoritatively, 'Thorndale, is there no letter for me? I see there is. Let me have it.'

His friend could not but comply, and had no reason to regret having done so; for after reading
it twice, though he sighed deeply, and the tears were in his eyes, he was more calm and less
oppressed than he had been at any time since his arrival in Corfu. He was unable to write,
but Colonel Deane had undertaken to write to Mrs. Henley to announce his coming; and as the
cause of his silence must be known at Hollywell, he resolved to let Amabel's letter wait for
a reply till his arrival in England.

It was on a chilly day in February that Mrs. Henley drove to the station to meet her brother,
looking forward with a sister's satisfaction to nursing his recovery, and feeling (for she
had a heart, after all) as if it was a renewal of the days, which she regarded with a tenderness
mixed with contempt, when all was confidence between the brother and sister, the days of nonsense
and romance. She hoped that now poor Philip, who had acted hastily on his romance, and ruined
his own prospects for her sake in his boyish days, had a chance of having it all made up to
him, and reigning at Redclyffe according to her darling wish.

As she anxiously watched the arrival of the train, she recognized Mr. Thorndale, whom she had
known in his school-days as Philip's protege--but could that be her brother? It was his height,
indeed; but his slow weary step as he crossed the platform, and left the care of his baggage
to others, was so unlike his prompt, independent air, that she could hardly believe it to be
himself, till, with his friend, he actually advanced to the carriage, and then she saw far
deeper traces of illness than she was prepared for. A confusion of words took place; greetings
on one hand, and partings on the other, for James Thorndale was going on by the train, and
made only a few minutes' halt in which to assure Mrs. Henley that though the landing and the
journey had knocked up his patient to-day, he was much better since leaving Corfu, and to beg
Philip to write as soon as possible. The bell rang, he rushed back, and was whirled away.

'Then you are better,' said Mrs. Henley, anxiously surveying her brother. 'You are sadly altered!
You must let us take good care of you.'

'Thank you! I knew you would be ready to receive me, though I fear I am not very good company.'

'Say no more, my dearest brother. You know both Dr. Henley and myself have made it our first
object that our house should be your home.'

'Thank you.'

'This salubrious air must benefit you,' she added. 'How thin you are! Are you very much fatigued?'

'Rather,' said Philip, who was leaning back wearily; but the next moment he exclaimed, 'What
do you hear from Hollywell?'

'There is no news yet.'

'Do you know how she is? When did you hear of her?'

'About a week ago; when she wrote to inquire for you.'

'She did? What did she say of herself?'

'Nothing particular, poor little thing; I believe she is always on the sofa. My aunt would
like nothing so well as making a great fuss about her.'

'Have you any objection to show me her letter?' said Philip, unable to bear hearing Amabel
thus spoken of, yet desirous to learn all he could respecting her.

'I have not preserved it,' was the answer. 'My correspondence is so extensive that there would
be no limit to the accumulation if I did not destroy the trivial letters.'

There was a sudden flush on Philip's pale face that caused his sister to pause in her measured,
self-satisfied speech, and ask if he was in pain.

'No,' he replied, shortly, and Margaret pondered on his strange manner, little guessing what
profanation her mention of Amabel's letter had seemed to him, or how it jarred on him to hear
this exaggerated likeness of his own self-complacent speeches.

She was much shocked and grieved to see him so much more unwell than she had expected. He was
unfit for anything but to go to bed on his arrival. Dr. Henley said the system had received
a severe shock, and it would be long before the effects would be shaken off; but that there
was no fear but his health would be completely restored if he would give himself entire rest.

There was no danger that Margaret would not lavish care enough on her brother. She waited on
him in his room all the next day, bringing him everything he could want, and trying to make
him come down-stairs, for she thought sitting alone there very bad for his spirits; but he
said he had a letter to write, and very curious she was to know why he was so long doing it,
and why he did not tell her to whom it was addressed. However, she saw when it was put into
the post-bag, that it was for Lady Morville.

At last, too late to see any of the visitors who had called to inquire, when the evening had
long closed in, she had the satisfaction of seeing Philip enter the drawing-room, and settling
him in the most comfortable of her easy-chairs on one side of the fire to wait till the Doctor
returned for dinner. The whole apartment was most luxurious, spacious, and richly furnished;
the fire, in its brilliant steel setting, glancing on all around, and illuminating her own
stately presence, and rich glace silk, as she sat opposite her brother cutting open the leaves
of one of the books of the club over which she presided. She felt that this was something like
attaining one of the objects for which she used to say and think she married,--namely, to be
able to receive her brother in a comfortable home. If only he would but look more like himself.

'Do you like a cushion for your head, Philip? Is it better?'

'Better since morning, thank you.'

'Did those headaches come on before your second illness?'

'I can't distinctly remember.'

'Ah! I cannot think how the Edmonstones could leave you. I shall always blame them for that
relapse.'

'It had nothing to do with it. Their remaining was impossible.'

'On Amabel's account? No, poor thing, I don't blame her, for she must have been quite helpless;
but it was exactly like my aunt, to have but one idea at a time. Charles used to be the idol,
and now it is Amy, I suppose.'

'If anything could have made it more intolerable for me, it would have been detaining them
there for my sake, at such a time.'

'Ah! I felt a great deal for you. You must have been very sorry for that poor little Amy. She
was very kind in writing while you were ill. How did she contrive, poor child? I suppose you
took all the head work for her?'

'I? I was nothing but a burden.'

'Were you still so very ill?' said Margaret, tenderly. 'I am sure you must have been neglected.'

'Would that I had!' muttered Philip, so low that she did not catch the words. Then aloud,--'No
care could have been greater than was taken for me. It was as if no one had been ill but myself,
and the whole thought of every one had been for me.'

'Then Amabel managed well, poor thing! We do sometimes see those weak soft characters--'

'Sister!' he interrupted.'

'Have not you told me so yourself?'

'I was a fool, or worse,' said he, in a tone of suffering. 'No words can describe what she
proved herself.'

'Self-possessed? energetic?' asked Mrs. Henley, with whom those were the first of qualities;
and as her brother paused from repugnance to speak of Amabel to one so little capable of comprehending
her, she proceeded: 'No doubt she did the best she could, but she must have been quite inexperienced.
It was a very young thing in the poor youth to make her executrix. I wonder the will was valid;
but I suppose you took care of that.'

'I did nothing.'

'Did you see it?'

'My uncle showed it to me.'

'Then you can tell me what I want to hear, for no one has told me anything. I suppose my uncle
is to be guardian?'

'No; Lady Morville.'

'You don't mean it? Most lover-like indeed. That poor girl to manage that great property? Everything
left to her!' said Mrs. Henley, continuing her catechism in spite of the unwillingness of his
replies. 'Were there any legacies? I know of Miss Wellwood's.'

'That to Dixon's daughter, and my own,' he answered.

'Yours? How was it that I never heard of it? What is it?'

'Ten thousand,' said Philip, sadly.

'I am delighted to hear it!' cried Margaret. 'Very proper of Sir Guy--very proper indeed, poor
youth. It is well thought of to soften the disappointment.'

Philip started forward. 'Disappointment!' exclaimed he, with horror.

'You need not look as if I wished to commit murder,' said his sister, smiling. 'Have you forgotten
that it depends on whether it is a son or daughter?'

His dismay was not lessened. 'Do you mean to say that this is to come on me if the child is
a daughter?'

'Ah! you were so young when the entail was made, that you knew nothing of it. Female heirs
were expressly excluded. There was some aunt whom old Sir Guy passed over, and settled the
property on my father and you, failing his own male heirs.'

'No one would take advantage of such a chance,' said Philip.

'Do not make any rash resolutions, my dear brother, whatever you do,' said Margaret. 'You have
still the same fresh romantic generous spirit of self-sacrifice that is generally so soon worn
out, but you must not let it allow you--'

'Enough of this,' said Philip, hastily, for every word was a dagger.

'Ah! you are right not to dwell on the uncertainty. I am almost sorry I told you,' said Margaret.
'Tell me about Miss Wellwood's legacy,' she continued, desirous of changing the subject. 'I
want to know the truth of it, for every one is talking of it.''How comes the world to know of it?'

'There have been reports ever since his death, and now it has been paid, whatever it is, on
Lady Morville's coming of age. Do you know what it is? The last story I was told was, that
it was £2O,OOO, to found a convent to pray for his grand--'

'Five thousand for her hospital,' interrupted Philip. 'Sister!' he added; speaking with effort,
'it was for that hospital that he made the request for which we persecuted him.'

'Ah! I thought so, I could have told you so!' cried Margaret, triumphant in her sagacity, but
astonished, as her brother started up and stood looking at her, as if he could hardly resolve
to give credit to her words.

'You--thought--so,' he repeated slowly.

'I guessed it from the first. He was always with that set, and I thought it a very bad thing
for him; but as it was only a guess, it was not worth while to mention it: besides, the cheque
seemed full evidence. It was the general course, not the individual action.'

'If you thought so, why not mention it to me? Oh! sister, what would you not have spared me!'

'I might have done so if it had appeared that it might lead to his exculpation, but you were
so fully convinced that his whole course confirmed the suspicions, that a mere vague idea was
not worth dwelling on. Your general opinion, of him satisfied me.'

'I cannot blame you,' was all his reply, as he sat down again, with his face averted from the
light.

And Mrs. Henley was doubtful whether he meant that she had been judicious! She spoke again,
unconscious of the agony each word inflicted.

'Poor youth! we were mistaken in those facts, and of course, all is forgiven and forgotten
now; but he certainly had a tremendous temper. I shall never forget that exhibition. Perhaps
poor Amabel is saved much unhappiness.'

'Once for all,' said Philip, sternly, 'let me never hear you speak of him thus. We were both
blind to a greatness of soul and purity of heart that we shall never meet again. Yours was
only prejudice; mine I must call by a darker name. Remember, that he and his wife are only
to be spoken of with reverence.'

He composed himself to silence; and Margaret, after looking at him for some moments in wonder,
began in a sort of exculpatory tone:

'Of course we owe him a great deal of gratitude. It was very kind and proper to come to you
when you were ill, and his death must have been a terrible shock. He was a fine young man;
amiable, very attractive in manner.'

'No more!' muttered Philip.

'That, you always said of him,' continued she, not hearing, 'but you have no need to reproach
yourself. You always acted the part of a true friend, did full justice to his many good qualities,
and only sought his real good.'

'Every word you speak is the bitterest satire on me,' said Philip, goaded into rousing himself
for a moment. 'Say no more, unless you would drive me distracted!'

Margaret was obliged to be silent, and marvel, while her brother sat motionless, leaning back
in his chair, till Dr. Henley came in; and after a few words to him, went on talking to his
wife, till dinner was announced. Philip went with them into the dining-room, but had scarcely
sat down before he said he could not stay, and returned to the drawing-room sofa. He said he
only wanted quiet and darkness, and sent his sister and her husband back to their dinner.

'What has he been doing?' said the Doctor; 'here is his pulse up to a hundred again. How can
he have raised it?'

'He only came down an hour ago, and has been sitting still ever since.'

'Talking?'

'Yes; and there, perhaps, I was rather imprudent. I did not know he could so little bear to
hear poor Sir Guy's name mentioned; and, besides, he did not know, till I told him, that he
had so much chance of Redclyffe. He did not know the entail excluded daughters.'

'Did he not! That accounts for it. I should like to see the man who could hear coolly that
he was so near such a property. This suspense is unlucky just now; very much against him. You
must turn his thoughts from it as much as possible.'

All the next day, Mrs. Henley wondered why her brother's spirits were so much depressed, resisting
every attempt to amuse or cheer them; but, on the third, she thought some light was thrown
on the matter. She was at breakfast with the Doctor when the post came in, and there was a
black-edged letter for Captain Morville, evidently from Amabel. She took it up at once to his
room. He stretched out his hand for it eagerly, but laid it down, and would not open it while
she was in the room. The instant she was gone, however, he broke the seal and read:--

       'Hollywell, February 20th.

'MY DEAR PHILIP,--Thank you much for writing to me. It was a great comfort to see your writing
again, and to hear of your being safe in our own country. We had been very anxious about you,
though we did not hear of your illness till the worst was over. I am very glad you are at St.
Mildred's, for I am sure Margaret must be very careful of you, and Stylehurst air must be good
for you. Every one here is well; Charles growing almost active, and looking better than I ever
saw him. I wish I could tell you how nice and quiet a winter it has been; it has been a great
blessing to me in every way, so many things have come to me to enjoy. Mr. Ross has come to
me every Sunday, and often in the week, and has been so very kind. I think talking to him will
be a great pleasure to you when you are here again. You will like to hear that Mr. Shene has
sent me the picture, and the pleasure it gives me increases every day. Indeed, I am so well
off in every way, that you must not grieve yourself about me, though I thank you very much
for what you say. Laura reads to me all the evening from dinner to tea. I am much better than
I was in the winter, and am enjoying the soft spring air from the open window, making it seem
as if it was much later in the year. 'Good-bye, my dear cousin; may God bless and comfort you.
Remember, that after all, it was God's will, not your doing; and therefore, as he said himself,
all is as it should be, and so it will surely be.

       'Your affectionate cousin,
                 'AMABEL F. MORVILLE.'

Childishly simple as this letter might be called, with its set of facts without comment, and
the very commonplace words of consolation, it spoke volumes to Philip of the spirit in which
it was written--resignation, pardon, soothing, and a desire that her farewell, perhaps her
last, should carry with it a token of her perfect forgiveness. Everything from Amabel did him
good; and he was so perceptibly better, that his sister exclaimed, when she was next alone
with Dr. Henley, 'I understand it all, poor fellow; I thought long ago, he had some secret
attachment; and now I see it was to Amabel Edmonstone.'

'To Lady Morville?'

'Yes. You know how constantly he was at Hollywell, my aunt so fond of him? I don't suppose
Amy knew of it; and, of course, she could not be blamed for accepting such an offer as Sir
Guy's; besides, she never had much opinion of her own.'

'How? No bad speculation for him. She must have a handsome jointure; but what are your grounds?'

'Everything. Don't you remember he would not go to the marriage? He mentions her almost like
a saint; can't hear her name from any one else--keeps her letter to open alone, is more revived
by it than anything else. Ah! depend upon it, it was to avoid her, poor fellow, that he refused
to go to Venice with them.'

'Their going to nurse him is not as if Sir Guy suspected it.'

'I don't suppose he did, nor Amy either. No one ever had so much power over himself.'

Philip would not have thanked his sister for her surmise, but it was so far in his favour that
it made her avoid the subject, and he was thus spared from hearing much of Amabel or of Redclyffe.
It was bad enough without this. Sometimes in nursery tales, a naughty child, under the care
of a fairy, is chained to an exaggeration of himself and his own faults, and rendered a slave
to this hateful self. The infliction he underwent in his sister's house was somewhat analogous,
for Mrs. Henley's whole character, and especially her complacent speeches, were a strong resemblance
of his own in the days he most regretted. He had ever since her marriage regarded her as a
man looks at a fallen idol, but never had her alteration been so clear to him, as he had not
spent much time with her, making her short visits, and passing the chief of each day at Stylehurst.
Now, he was almost entirely at her mercy, and her unvarying kindness to him caused her deterioration
to pain him all the more; while each self-assertion, or harsh judgment, sounded on his ear
like a repetition of his worst and most hateful presumption. She little guessed what she made
him endure, for he had resumed his wonted stoicism of demeanour, though the hardened crust
that had once grown over his feelings had been roughly torn away, leaving an extreme soreness
and tenderness to which an acute pang was given whenever he was reminded, not only of his injuries
to Guy, but of the pride and secret envy that had been their root.

At the same time he disappointed her by his continued reserve and depression. The confidence
she had forfeited was never to be restored, and she was the last person to know how incapable
she was of receiving it, or how low she had sunk in her self-exaltation.

He was soon able to resume the hours of the family, but was still far from well; suffering
from languor, pain in the head, want of sleep and appetite; and an evening feverishness. He
was unequal to deep reading, and was in no frame for light books; he could not walk far, and
his sister's literary coteries, which he had always despised, were at present beyond his powers
of endurance. She hoped that society would divert his thoughts and raise his spirits, and arranged
her parties with a view to him; but he never could stay long in the room, and Dr. Henley, who,
though proud of his wife and her talents, had little pleasure in her learned circle, used to
aid and abet his escape.

Thus Philip got through the hours as best he might, idly turning the pages of new club-books,
wandering on the hills till he tired himself, sitting down to rest in the damp air, coming
home chilled and fatigued, and lying on the sofa with his eyes shut, to avoid conversation,
all the evening. Neither strength, energy, nor intellect would, serve him for more; and this,
with the load and the stings of a profound repentance, formed his history through the next
fortnight.

He used often to stand gazing at the slowly-rising walls of Miss Wellwood's buildings, and
the only time he exerted himself in his old way to put down any folly in conversation, was
when he silenced some of the nonsense talked about her, and evinced his own entire approval
of her proceedings.

CHAPTER 39

     Beneath a tapering ash-tree's shade
     Three graves are by each other laid.
     Around the very place doth brood
     A strange and holy quietude.
                          --BAPTISTERY

Late on the afternoon of the 6th of March, Mary Ross entered by the half-opened front door
at Hollywell, just as Charles appeared slowly descending the stairs.

'Well! how is she?' asked Mary eagerly.

'Poor little dear!' he answered, with a sigh; 'she looks very nice and comfortable.'

'What, you have seen her?'

'I am at this moment leaving her room.'

'She is going on well, I hope?'

'Perfectly well. There is one comfort at least,' said Charles, drawing himself down the last step.

'Dear Amy! And the babe--did you see it?'

'Yes; the little creature was lying by her, and she put her hand on it, and gave one of those
smiles that are so terribly like his; but I could not have spoken about it for the world. Such
fools we be!' concluded Charles, with an attempt at a smile.

'It is healthy?'

'All a babe ought to be, they say, all that could be expected of it, except the not being of
the right sort, and if Amy does not mind that, I don't know who should,' and Charles deposited
himself on the sofa, heaving a deep sigh, intended to pass for the conclusion of the exertion.

'Then you think she is not disappointed?'

'Certainly not. The first thing she said when she was told it was a girl, was, "I am so glad!"
and she does seem very happy with it, poor little thing! In fact, mamma thinks she had so little
expected that it would go well with herself, or with it, that now it is all like a surprise.'

There was a silence, first broken by Charles saying, 'You must be content with me--I can't
send for anyone. Bustle has taken papa and Charlotte for a walk, and Laura is on guard over
Amy, for we have made mamma go and lie down. It was high time, after sitting up two nights,
and meaning to sit up a third.'

'Has she really--can she bear it?'

'Yes; I am afraid I have trained her in sitting up, and Amy and all of us know that anxiety
hurts her more than fatigue. She would only lie awake worrying herself, instead of sitting
peaceably by the fire, holding the baby, or watching Amy, and having a quiet cry when she is
asleep. For, after all, it is very sad!' Charles was trying to brave his feelings, but did
not succeed very well. 'Yesterday morning I was properly frightened. I came into the dressing-room,
and found mamma crying so, that I fully believed it was all wrong, but she was just coming
to tell us, and was only overcome by thinking of not having him to call first, and how happy
he would have been.'

'And the dear Amy herself!'

'I can't tell. She is a wonderful person for keeping herself composed when she ought. I see
she has his picture in full view, but she says not a word, except that mamma saw her to-day,
when she thought no one was looking, fondling the little thing, and whispering to it--"Guy's
baby!" and "Guy's little messenger!"' Charles gave up the struggle, and fairly cried, but in
a moment rallying his usual tone, he went on, half laughing,--'To be sure, what a morsel of
a creature it is! It is awful to see anything so small calling itself a specimen of humanity!'

'It is your first acquaintance with infant humanity, I suppose? Pray, did you ever see a baby?'

'Not to look at. In fact, Mary, I consider it a proof of your being a rational woman that you
have not asked me whether it is pretty.'

'I thought you no judge of the article.'

'No, it was not to inspect it that Amy sent for me; though after all it was for a business
I would almost as soon undertake, a thing I would not do for any other living creature.'

'Then I know what it is. To write some kind message to Captain Morville. Just like the dear Amy!'

'Just like her, and like no one else, except--Of course my father wrote him an official communication
yesterday, very short; but the fact must have made it sweet enough, savage as we all were towards
him, as there was no one else to be savage to, unless it might be poor Miss Morville, who is
the chief loser by being of the feminine gender,' said Charles, again braving what he was pleased
to call sentimentality. 'Well, by and by, my lady wants to know if any one has written to "poor
Philip," as she will call him, and, by no means contented by hearing papa had, she sends to
ask me to come to her when I came in from wheeling in the garden; and receives me with a request
that I would write and tell him how well she is, and how glad, and so on. There's a piece of
work for me!'

'Luckily you are not quite so savage as you pretend, either to him, or your poor little niece.'

'Whew! I should not care whether she was niece or nephew but for him; at least not much, as
long as she comforted Amy; but to see him at Redclyffe, and be obliged to make much of him
at the same time, is more than I can very well bear; though I may as well swallow it as best
I can, for she will have me do it, as well as on Laura's account. Amy believes, you know, that
he will think the inheritance a great misfortune; but that is only a proof that she is more
amiable than any one else.'

'I should think he would not rejoice.'

'Not exactly; but I have no fear that he will not console himself by thinking of the good he
will do with it. I have no doubt that he was thoroughly cut up, and I could even go the length
of believing that distress of mind helped to bring on the relapse, but it is some time ago.
And as to his breaking his heart after the first ten minutes at finding himself what he has
all his life desired to be, in a situation where the full influence of his talents may be felt,'
said Charles, with a shade of imitation of his measured tones, 'why that, no one but silly
little Amy would ever dream of.'

'Well, I dare say you will grow merciful as you write.'

'No, that is not the way to let my indignation ooze out at my fingers' ends. I shall begin
by writing to condole with Markham. Poor man! what a state he must be in; all the more pitiable
because he evidently had entirely forgotten that there could ever be a creature of the less
worthy gender born to the house of Morville; so it will take him quite by surprise. What will
he do, and how will he ever forgive Mrs. Ashford, who, I see in the paper, has a son whom nobody
wants, as if for the express purpose of insulting Markham's feelings! Well-a-day! I should
have liked to have had the sound of Sir Guy Morville still in my ears, and yet I don't know
that I could have endured its being applied to a little senseless baby! And, after all, we
are the gainers; for it would have been a forlorn thing to have seen Amy go off to reign queen-mother
at Redclyffe,--and most notably well would she have reigned, with that clear little head. I
vow 'tis a talent thrown away! However, I can't grumble. She is much happier without greatness
thrust on her, and for my own part, I have my home-sister all to myself, with no rival but
that small woman--and how she will pet her!'

'And how you will! What a spoiling uncle you will be! But now, having heard you reason yourself
into philosophy, I'll leave you to write. We were so anxious, that I could not help coming.
I am so glad that little one thrives! I should like to leave my love for Amy, if you'll remember
it.'

'The rarity of such a message from you may enable me. I was lying here alone, and received
the collected love of five Harpers to convey up-stairs, all which I forgot; though in its transit
by Arnaud and his French, it had become "that they made their friendships to my lady and Mrs.
Edmonstone."'

Charles had not talked so like himself for months; and Mary felt that Amabel's child, if she
had disappointed some expectations, had come like a spring blossom, to cheer Hollywell, after
its long winter of sorrow and anxiety. She seemed to have already been received as a messenger
to comfort them for the loss, greatest of all to her, poor child, though she would never know
how great. Next Mary wondered what kind of letter Charles would indite, and guessed it would
be all the kinder for the outpouring he had made to her, the only person with whom he ventured
to indulge in a comfortable abuse of Philip, since his good sense taught him that, ending as
affairs must, it was the only wise way to make the best of it, with father, mother, and Charlotte,
all quite sufficiently disposed to regard Philip with aversion without his help.

Philip was at breakfast with the Henleys, on the following morning, a Sunday,--or rather, sitting
at the breakfast-table, when the letters were brought in. Mrs. Henley, pretending to be occupied
with her own, had an eager, watchful eye on her brother, as one was placed before him. She
knew Mr. Edmonstone's writing, but was restrained from exclaiming by her involuntary deference
for her brother. He flushed deep red one moment, then turned deadly pale, his hand, when first
he raised it, trembled, but then became firm, as if controlled by the force of his resolution.
He broke the black seal, drew out the letter, paused another instant, unfolded it, glanced
at it, pushed his chair from the table, and hastened to me door.

'Tell me, tell me, Philip, what is it?' she exclaimed, rising to follow him.

He turned round, threw the letter on the table, and with a sign that forbade her to come with
him, left the room.

'Poor fellow! how he feels it! That poor young creature!' said she, catching up the letter
for explanation.

'Ha! No! Listen to this, Dr. Henley. Why, he must have read it wrong!'

       'Hollywell, March 5th.

'DEAR PHILIP,--I have to announce to you that Lady Morville was safely confined this morning
with a daughter. I shall be ready to send all the papers and accounts of the Redclyffe estate
to any place you may appoint as soon as she is sufficiently recovered to transact business.
Both she and the infant are as well as can be expected.

        --Yours sincerely,
               'C. EDMONSTONE.'

'A daughter!' cried Dr. Henley. 'Well, my dear, I congratulate you! It is as fine a property
as any in the kingdom. We shall see him pick up strength now.'

'I must go and find him. He surely has mistaken!' said Margaret, hastening in search of him;
but he was not to be found, and she saw him no more till she found him in the seat at church.

She hardly waited to be in the churchyard, after the service, before she said, 'Surely you
mistook the letter!'

'No, I did not.'

'You saw that she is doing well, and it is a girl.'

'I--'

'And will you not let me congratulate you?'

She was interrupted by some acquaintance; but when she looked round he was nowhere to be seen,
and she was obliged to be content with telling every one the news. One or two of her many tame
gentlemen came home with her to luncheon, and she had the satisfaction of dilating on the grandeur
of Redclyffe. Her brother was not in the drawing-room, but answered when she knocked at his door.

'Luncheon is ready. Will you come down?'

'Is any one there?'

'Mr. Brown and Walter Maitland. Shall I send you anything, or do you like to come down?'

'I'll come, thank you,' said he, thus secured from a tete-a-tete.

'Had you better come? Is not your head too bad?'

'It will not be better for staying here; I'll come.'

She went down, telling her visitors that, since his illness, her brother always suffered so
much from excitement that he was too unwell to have derived much pleasure from the tidings:
and when he appeared his air corresponded with her account, for his looks were of the gravest
and sternest. He received the congratulations of the gentlemen without the shadow of a smile,
and made them think him the haughtiest and most dignified landed proprietor in England.

Mrs. Henley advised strongly against his going to church, but without effect, and losing him
in the crowd coming out, saw him no more till just before dinner-time. He had steeled himself
to endure all that she and the Doctor could inflict on him that evening, and he had a hope
of persuading Amabel that it would be only doing justice to her child to let him restore her
father's inheritance, which had come to him through circumstances that could not have been
foreseen. He was determined to do nothing like an act of possession of Redclyffe till he had
implored her to accept the offer; and it was a great relief thus to keep it in doubt a little
longer, and not absolutely feel himself profiting by Guy's death and sitting in his seat. Not
a word, however, must be said to let his sister guess at his resolution, and he must let her
torture him in the meantime. He was vexed at having been startled into betraying his suffering,
and was humiliated at the thought of the change from that iron imperturbability, compounded
of strength, pride, and coldness in which he had once gloried.

Dr. Henley met him with a shake of the hand, and hearty exclamation:--

'I congratulate you, Sir Philip Morville.'

'No; that is spared me,' was his answer.

'Hem! The baronetcy?'

'Yes,' said Margaret, 'I thought you knew that only goes to the direct heir of old Sir Hugh.
But you must drop the "captain" at least. You will sell out at once?'

He patiently endured the conversation on the extent and beauty of Redclyffe, wearing all the
time a stern, resolute aspect, that his sister knew to betoken great unhappiness. She earnestly
wished to understand him, but at last, seeing how much her conversation increased his headache,
she desisted, and left him to all the repose his thoughts could give him. He was very much
concerned at the tone of the note from his uncle, as if it was intended to show that all connection
with the family was to be broken off. He supposed it had been concerted with some one; with
Charles, most likely,--Charles, who had judged him too truly, and with his attachment to Guy,
and aversion to himself, was doubtless strengthening his father's displeasure, all the more
for this hateful wealth. And Laura? What did she feel?

Monday morning brought another letter. At first, he was struck with the dread of evil tidings
of Amabel or her babe, especially when he recognized Charles's straggling handwriting; and,
resolved not to be again betrayed, he carried it up to read in his own room before his sister
had noticed it. He could hardly resolve to open it, for surely Charles would not write to him
without necessity; and what, save sorrow, could cause that necessity? He saw that his wretchedness
might be even more complete! At length he read it, and could hardly believe his own eyes as
he saw cheering words, in a friendly style of interest and kindliness such as he would never
have expected from Charles, more especially now.

       'Hollywell, March 6th.

'MY DEAR PHILIP,--I believe my father wrote to you in haste yesterday, but I am sure you will
be anxious for further accounts, and when there is good news there is satisfaction in conveying
it. I know you will be glad to hear our affairs are very prosperous; and Amy, whom I have just
been visiting, is said by the authorities to be going on as well as possible. She begs me to
tell you of her welfare, and to assure you that she is particularly pleased to have a daughter;
or, perhaps, it will be more satisfactory to have her own words. "You must tell him how well
I am, Charlie, and how very glad. And tell him that he must not vex himself about her being
a girl, for that is my great pleasure; and I do believe, the very thing I should have chosen
if I had set to work to wish." You know Amy never said a word but in all sincerity, so you
must trust her, and I add my testimony that she is in placid spirits, and may well be glad
to escape the cares of Redclyffe. My father says he desired Markham to write to you on the
business matters. I hope the sea-breezes may do you good. All the party here are well; but
I see little of them now, all the interest of the house is upstairs.

--Your affectionate,

'C. M, EDMONSTONE.

P. S. The baby is very small, but so plump and healthy, that no one attempts to be uneasy about
her.'

Never did letter come in better time to raise a desponding heart. Of Amabel's forgiveness he
was already certain; but that she should have made Charles his friend was a wonder beyond all
others. It gave him more hope for the future than he had yet been able to entertain, and showed
him that the former note was no studied renunciation of him, but only an ebullition of Mr.
Edmonstone's disappointment.

It gave him spirit enough to undertake what he had long been meditating, but without energy
to set about it--an expedition to Stylehurst. Hitherto it had been his first walk on coming
to St. Mildred's, but now the distance across the moor was far beyond his powers; and even
that length of ride was a great enterprise. It was much further by the carriage road, and his
sister never liked going there. He had never failed to visit his old home till last year, and
he felt almost glad that he had not carried his thoughts, at that time, to his father's grave.
It was strange that, with so many more important burdens on his mind, it had been this apparent
trivial omission, this slight to Stylehurst, that, in both his illnesses, had been the most
frequently recurring idea that had tormented him in his delirium. So deeply, securely fixed
is the love of the home of childhood in men of his mould, in whom it is perhaps the most deeply
rooted of all affections.

Without telling his sister his intention, he hired a horse, and pursued the familiar moorland
tracks. He passed South Moor Farm; it gave him too great a pang to look at it; he rode on across
the hills where he used to walk with his sisters, and looked down into narrow valleys where
he had often wandered with his fishing-rod, lost in musings on plans for attaining distinction,
and seeing himself the greatest man of his day. Little had he then guessed the misery which
would place him in the way to the coveted elevation, or how he would loathe it when it lay
within his grasp.

There were the trees round the vicarage, the church spire, the cottages, whose old rough aspect,
he knew so well, the whole scene, once 'redolent of joy and youth:' but how unable to breathe
on him a second spring! He put up his horse at the village inn, and went to make his first
call on Susan, the old clerk's wife, and one of the persons in all the world who loved him
best. He knocked, opened the door, and saw her, startled from her tea-drinking, looking at
him as a stranger.

'Bless us! It beant never Master Philip!' she exclaimed, her head shaking very fast, as she
recognized his voice. 'Why, sir, what a turn you give me! How bad you be looking, to be sure!'

He sat down and talked with her, with feelings of comfort. Tidings of Sir Guy's death had reached
the old woman, and she was much grieved for the nice, cheerful-spoken young gentleman, whom
she well remembered; for she, like almost every one who had ever had any intercourse with him,
had an impression left of him, as of something winning, engaging, brightening, like a sunbeam.
It was a refreshment to meet with one who would lament him for his own sake, and had no congratulations
for Philip himself; and the 'Sure, sure, it must have been very bad for you,' with which old
Susan heard of the circumstances, carried more of the comfort of genuine sympathy than all
his sister's attempts at condolence.

She told him how often Sir Guy had been at Stylehurst, how he had talked to her about the archdeacon;
and especially she remembered his helping her husband one day when he found him trimming the
ash over the archdeacon's grave. He used to come very often to church there, more in the latter
part of his stay; there was one Sunday--it was the one before Michaelmas--he was there all
day, walking in the churchyard, and sitting in the porch between services.

'The Sunday before Michaelmas!' thought Philip, the very time when he had been most earnest
in driving his uncle to persecute, and delighting himself in having triumphed over Guy at last,
and obtained tangible demonstration of his own foresight, and his cousin's vindictive spirit.
What had he been throwing away? Where had, in truth, been the hostile spirit?

He took the key of the church, and walked thither alone, standing for several minutes by the
three graves, with a sensation as if his father was demanding of him an account of the boy
he had watched, and brought to his ancestral home, and cared for through his orphaned childhood.
But for the prayer-book, the pledge that there had been peace at the last, how could he have
borne it?

Here was the paved path he had trodden in early childhood, holding his mother's hand, where,
at each recurring vacation during his school days, he had walked between his admiring sisters,
in the consciousness that he was the pride of his family and of all the parish. Of his family?
Did he not remember his return home for the last time before that when he was summoned thither
by his father's death? He had come with a whole freight of prizes, and letters full of praises;
and as he stood, in expectation of the expression of delighted satisfaction, his father laid
his hand on his trophy, the pile of books, saying, gravely,--' All this would I give, Philip,
for one evidence of humility of mind.'

It had been his father's one reproof. He had thought it unjust and unreasonable, and turned
away impatiently to be caressed and admired by Margaret. His real feelings had been told to
her, because she flattered them and shared them, he had been reserved and guarded with the
father who would have perceived and repressed that ambition and the self-sufficiency which
he himself had never known to exist, nor regarded as aught but sober truth. It had been his
bane, that he had been always too sensible to betray outwardly his self-conceit, in any form
that could lead to its being noticed.

He opened the church door, closed it behind him, and locked himself in.

He came up to the communion rail, where he had knelt for the first time twelve years ago, confident
in himself, and unconscious of the fears with which his father's voice was trembling in the
intensity of his prayer for one in whom there was no tangible evil, and whom others thought
a pattern of all that could be desired by the fondest hopes.

He knelt down, with bowed head, and hands clasped. Assuredly, if his father could have beheld
him then, it would have been with rejoicing. He would not have sorrowed that robust frame was
wasted, and great strength brought low; that the noble features were worn, the healthful cheek
pale, and the powerful intellect clouded and weakened; he would hardly have mourned for the
cruel grief and suffering, such would have been his joy that the humble, penitent, obedient
heart had been won at last. It was as if the influences of the prayers breathed for him by
his father, and the forgiveness and loving spirit there won by Guy, had been waiting for him
there till he came to take them up, for thenceforth the bitterest of his despair was over,
and he could receive each token of Amabel's forgiveness, not as heaped coals of fire, but as
an earnest of forgiveness sealed in heaven.

The worst was over, and though he still had much to suffer, he was becoming open to receive
comfort; the blank dark remorse in which he had been living began to lighten, and the tone
of his mind to return.

He spoke more cheerfully to Susan when he restored the key; but she had been so shocked at
his appearance, that when, the next day, a report reached her that Mr. Philip was now a grand
gentleman, and very rich, she answered,--

'Well, if it be so, I am glad of it, but he said never a word of it to me, and it is my belief
he would give all the money as ever was coined, to have the poor young gentleman back again.
Depend upon it, he hates the very sound of it.'

At the cost of several sheets of paper, Philip at length completed a letter to Mr. Edmonstone,
which, when he had sent it, made his suspense more painful.

       'St. Mildred's, March 12th.

'MY DEAR MR. Edmonstone,--It is with a full sense of the unfitness of intruding such a subject
upon you in the present state of the family, that I again address you on the same topic as
that on which I wrote to you from Italy, at the first moment at which I have felt it possible
to ask your attention. I was then too ill to be able to express my contrition for all that
has passed; in fact, I doubt whether it was even then so deep as at present, since every succeeding
week has but added to my sense of the impropriety of my conduct, and my earnest desire for
pardon. I can hardly venture at such a time to ask anything further, but I must add that my
sentiments towards your daughter are unaltered, and can never cease but with my life, and though
I know I have rendered myself unworthy of her, and my health, both mental and bodily, is far
from being re-established, I cannot help laying my feelings before you, and entreating that
you will put an end to the suspense which has endured for so many months, by telling me to
hope that I have not for ever forfeited your consent to my attachment. At least, I trust to
your kindness for telling me on what terms I am for the present to stand with your family.
I am glad to hear such favourable reports of Lady Morville, and with all my heart I thank Charles
for his letter.

       'Yours ever affectionately,
                'P. H. MORVILLE.'

He ardently watched for a reply. He could not endure the idea of receiving it where Margaret's
eyes could scan the emotion he could now only conceal by a visible rigidity of demeanour, and
he daily went himself to the post-office, but in vain. He received nothing but business letters,
and among them one from Markham, with as much defiance and dislike in its style as could be
shown, in a perfectly formal, proper letter. Till he had referred to Lady Morville, he would
not make any demonstration towards Redclyffe, and evaded all his sister's questions as to what
he was doing about it, and when he should take measures for leaving the army, or obtaining
a renewal of the baronetcy.

Anxiety made him look daily more wretchedly haggard; the Doctor was at fault, Mrs. Henley looked
sagacious, while his manner became so dry and repellent that visitors went away moralizing
on the absurdity of "nouveaux riches" taking so much state on them.

He wondered how soon he might venture to write to Amabel, on whom alone he could depend; but
he felt it a sort of profanity to disturb her.

He had nearly given up his visits to the post in despair, when one morning he beheld what never
failed to bring some soothing influence, namely, the fair pointed characters he had not dared
to hope for. He walked quickly into the promenade, sat down, and read:--

       'Hollywell, March 22nd.

'MY DEAR PHILIP,--Papa does not answer your letter, because he says speaking is better than
writing, and we hope you are well enough to come to us before Sunday week. I hope to take our
dear little girl to be christened on that day, and I want you to be so kind as to be her godfather.
I ask it of you, not only in my own name, but in her father's, for I am sure it is what he
would choose. Her Aunt Laura and Mary Ross are to be her godmothers, I hope you will not think
me very foolish and fanciful for naming her Mary Verena, in remembrance of our old readings
of Sintram. She is a very healthy, quiet creature, and I am getting on very well. I am writing
from the dressing-room, and I expect to be down-stairs in a few days. If you do not dislike
it very much, could you be so kind as to call upon Miss Wellwood, and pay little Marianne Dixon's
quarter for me? It is £1O, and it will save trouble if you would do it; besides that, I should
like to hear of her and the little girl. I am sorry to hear you are not better,--perhaps coming
here may do you good.--Four o'clock. I have been keeping my letter in hopes of persuading papa
to put in a note, but he says he had rather send a message that he is quite ready to forgive
and forget, and it will be best to talk it over when you come."

'Your affectionate cousin,

'A. F. MORVILLE.'

It was well he was not under his sister's eye, for he could not read this letter calmly, and
he was obliged to take several turns along the walk before he could recover his composure enough
to appear in the breakfast-room, where he found his sister alone, dealing her letters into
separate packets of important and unimportant.

'Good morning, Philip. Dr. Henley is obliged to go to Bramshaw this morning, and has had an
early breakfast. Have you been out?'

'Yes, it is very fine--I mean it will be--the haze is clearing.'

Margaret saw that he was unusually agitated, and not by grief; applied herself to tea-making,
and hoped his walk had given him an appetite; but there seemed little chance of this so long
were his pauses between each morsel, and so often did he lean back in his chair.

'I am going to leave you on--on Friday,' he said at length, abruptly.

'Oh, are you going to Redclyffe?'

'No; to Hollywell. Lady Morville wishes me to be her little girl's sponsor; I shall go to London
on Friday, and on, the next day.'

'I am glad they have asked you. Does she write herself? Is she pretty well?

'Yes; she is to go down-stairs in a day or two.'

'I am rejoiced that she is recovering so well. Do you know whether she is in tolerable spirits?'

'She writes cheerfully.'

'How many years is it since I saw her? She was quite a child, but very sweet-tempered and attentive
to poor Charles,' said Mrs. Henley, feeling most amiably disposed towards her future sister-in-law.

'Just so. Her gentleness and sweet temper were always beautiful; and she has shown herself
under her trials what it would be presumptuous to praise.'

Margaret had no doubt now, and thought he was ready for more open sympathy.

'You must let me congratulate you now on this unexpected dawn of hope, after your long trial,
my dear brother. It is a sort of unconscious encouragement you could hardly hope for.'

'I did not know you knew anything of it,' said Philip.

'Ah! my dear brother, you betrayed yourself. You need not be disconcerted; only a sister could
see the real cause of your want of spirits. Your manner at each mention of her, your anxiety,
coupled with your resolute avoidance of her--'

'Of whom? Do you know what you are talking of, sister!' said Philip, sternly.

'Of Amabel, of course.'

Philip rose, perfectly awful in his height and indignation.

'Sister!' he said--paused, and began again. 'I have been attached to Laura Edmonstone for years
past, and Lady Morville knows it.'

'To Laura!' cried Mrs. Henley, in amaze. 'Are you engaged?' and, as he was hardly prepared
to answer, she continued, 'If you have not gone too far to recede, only consider before you
take any rash step. You come into this property without ready money, you will find endless
claims, and if you marry at once, and without fortune, you will never be clear from difficulties.'

'I have considered,' he replied, with cold loftiness that would have silenced any one, not
of the same determined mould.

'You are positively committed, then!' she said, much vexed. 'Oh, Philip! I did not think you
would have married for mere beauty.'

'I can hear no more discussion on this point,' answered Philip, in the serious, calm tone that
showed so much power over himself and every one else.

It put Margaret to silence, though she was excessively disappointed to find him thus involved
just at his outset, when he might have married so much more advantageously. She was sorry,
too, that she had shown her opinion so plainly, since it was to be, and hurt his feelings just
as he seemed to be thawing. She would fain have learned more; but he was completely shut up
within himself, and never opened again to her. She had never before so grated on every delicate
feeling in his mind; and he only remained at her house because in his present state of health,
he hardly knew where to bestow himself till it was time for him to go to Hollywell.

He went to call on Miss Wellwood, to whom his name was no slight recommendation, and she met
him eagerly, asking after Lady Morville, who, she said, had twice written to her most kindly
about little Marianne.

It was a very pleasant visit, and a great relief. He looked at the plans, heard the fresh arrangements,
admired, was interested, and took pleasure in having something to tell Amabel. He asked for
Marianne, and heard that she was one of the best of children--amiable, well-disposed, only
almost too sensitive. Miss Wellwood said it was remarkable how deep an impression Sir Guy had
made upon her, and how affectionately she remembered his kindness; and her distress at hearing
of his death had been far beyond what such a child could have been supposed to feel, both in
violence and in duration.

Philip asked to see her, knowing it would please Amabel, and in she came--a long, thin, nine-year-old
child, just grown into the encumbering shyness, that is by no means one of the graces of "la
vieillesse de l'enfance".

He wished to be kind and encouraging; but melancholy, added to his natural stateliness, made
him very formidable; and poor Marianne was capable of nothing beyond 'yes' or 'no.'

He told her he was going to see Lady Morville and her little girl, whereat she eagerly raised
her eyes, then shrank in affright at anything so tall, and so unlike Sir Guy. He said the baby
was to be christened next Sunday, and Miss Wellwood helped him out by asking the name.

'Mary,' he said, for he was by no means inclined to explain the Verena, though he knew not
half what it conveyed to Amabel.

Lastly, he asked if Marianne had any message; when she hung down her head, and whispered to
Miss Wellwood, what proved to be 'My love to dear little cousin Mary.'

He promised to deliver it, and departed, wishing he could more easily unbend.

CHAPTER 40

     Blest, though every tear that falls
     Doth in its silence of past sorrow tell,
     And makes a meeting seem most like a dear farewell.
                                     --WORDSWORTH

On Saturday afternoon, about half-past five, Philip Morville found himself driving up to the
well-known front door of Hollywell. At the door he heard that every one was out excepting Lady
Morville, who never came down till the evening, save for a drive in the carriage.

He entered the drawing-room, and gazed on the scene where he had spent so many happy hours,
only darkened by that one evil spot, that had grown till it not only poisoned his own mind,
but cast a gloom over that bright home.

All was as usual. Charles's sofa, little table, books, and inkstand, the work-boxes on the
table, the newspaper in Mr. Edmonstone's old folds. Only the piano was closed, and an accumulation
of books on the hinge told how long it had been so; and the plants in the bay window were brown
and dry, not as when they were Amabel's cherished nurslings. He remembered Amabel's laughing
face and abundant curls, when she carried in the camellia, and thought how little he guessed
then that he should be the destroyer of the happiness of her young life. How should he meet
her--a widow in her father's house--or look at her fatherless child? He wondered how he had
borne to come thither at all, and shrank at the thought that this very evening, in a few hours,
he must see her.

The outer door opened, there was a soft step, and Amabel stood before him, pale, quiet, and
with a smile of welcome. Her bands of hair looked glossy under her widow's cap, and the deep
black of her dress was relieved by the white robes of the babe that lay on her arm. She held
out her hand, and he pressed it in silence.

'I thought you would like just to see baby,' said she, in a voice something like apology.

He held out his arms to take it, for which Amy was by no means prepared. She was not quite
happy even in trusting it in her sister's arms, and she supposed he had never before touched
an infant. But that was all nonsense, and she would not vex him with showing any reluctance;
so she laid the little one on his arm, and saw his great hand holding it most carefully, but
the next moment he turned abruptly from her. Poor silly little Amy, her heart beat not a little
till he turned back, restored the babe, and while he walked hastily to the window, she saw
that two large tear-drops had fallen on the white folds of its mantle. She did not speak; she
guessed how much he must feel in thus holding Guy's child, and, besides, her own tears would
now flow so easily that she must be on her guard. She sat down, settled the little one on her
knee, and gave him time to recover himself.

Presently he came and stood by her saying, in a most decided tone, 'Amabel, you must let me
do this child justice.'

She looked up, wondering what he could mean.

'I will not delay in taking steps for restoring her inheritance,' said he, hoping by determination
to overpower Amabel, and make her believe it a settled and a right thing.

'O Philip, you are not thinking of that!'

'It is to be done.'

'You would not be so unkind to this poor little girl,' said Amy, with a persuasive smile, partaking
of her old playfulness, adding, very much in earnest, 'Pray put it out of your head directly,
for it would be very wrong.'

The nurse knocked at the door to fetch the baby, as Amabel had desired. When this interruption
was over, Philip came and sat down opposite to her, and began with his most decided manner:--

'You must listen to me, Amy, and not allow any scruples to prevent you from permitting your
child to be restored to her just rights. You must see that the estate has come to me by circumstances
such that no honest man can be justified in retaining it. The entail was made to exclude females,
only because of the old Lady Granard. It is your duty to consent.'

'The property has always gone in the male line,' replied Amabel.

'There never was such a state of things. Old Sir Guy could never have thought of entailing
it away from his own descendant on a distant cousin. It would be wrong of me to profit by these
unforeseen contingencies, and you ought not, in justice to your child, to object.'

He spoke so forcibly and decidedly that he thought he must have prevailed. But not one whit
convinced, Amabel answered, in her own gentle voice, but beginning with a business-like argument:--'Such
a possibility was contemplated. It was all provided for in the marriage settlements. Indeed,
I am afraid that, as it is, she will be a great deal too rich. Besides, Philip, I am sure this
is exactly what Guy would have chosen,' and the tears rose in her eyes. 'The first thing that
came into my head when she was born, was, that it was just what he wished, that I should have
her for myself, and that you should take care of Redclyffe. I am certain now that he hoped
it would be so. I know--indeed I do--that he took great pleasure in thinking of its being in
your hands, and of your going on with all he began. You can't have forgotten how much he left
in your charge? If you were to give it up, it would be against his desire; and with that knowledge,
how could I suffer it? Then think what a misfortune to her, poor little thing, to be a great
heiress, and how very bad for Redclyffe to have no better a manager than me! Oh, Philip, can
you not see it is best as it is, and just as he wished?'

He almost groaned--'If you could guess what a burden it is.'

'Ah! but you must carry it, not throw it down on such hands as mine and that tiny baby's,'
said she, smiling.

'It would have been the same if it had been a boy.'

'Yes; then I must have done the best I could, and there would have been an end to look to,
but I am so glad to be spared. And you are so fit for it, and will make it turn to so much
use to every one.'

'I don't feel as if I should ever be of use to any one,' said Philip, in a tone of complete
dejection.

'Your head is aching,' said she, kindly.

'It always does, more or less,' replied he, resting it on his hand.

'I am so sorry. Has it been so ever since you were ill? But you are better? You look better
than when I saw you last.'

'I am better on the whole, but I doubt whether I shall ever be as strong as I used to be. That
ought to make me hesitate, even if--' then came a pause, while he put his hand over his face,
and seemed struggling with irrepressible emotion; and after all he was obliged to take two
walks to the window before he could recover composure, and could ask in a voice which he tried
to make calm and steady, though his face was deeply flushed--'Amy, how is Laura?'

'She is very well,' answered Amabel. 'Only you must not be taken by surprise if you see her
looking thinner.'

'And she has trusted--she has endured through all?' said he, with inquiring earnestness.

'O yes!'

'And they--your father and mother--can forgive?'

'They do--they have. But, Philip, it was one of the things I came down to say to you. I don't
think you must expect papa to begin about it himself. You know he does not like awkwardness,
though he will be very glad when once it is done, and ready to meet you half way.' He did not
answer, and after a silence Amabel added, 'Laura is out of doors. She and Charlotte take very
long walks.'

'And is she really strong and well, or is it that excited overdoing of employment that I first
set her upon?' he asked, anxiously.

'She is perfectly well, and to be busy has been a great help to her,' said Amabel. 'It was
a great comfort that we did not know how ill you had been at Corfu, till the worst was over.
Eveleen only mentioned it when you were better. I was very anxious, for I had some fears from
the note that you sent by Arnaud. I am very glad to see you safe here, for I have felt all
along that we forsook you; but I could not help it.'

'I am very glad you did not stay. The worst of all would have been that you should have run
any risk.'

'There is the carriage,' said Amy. 'Mamma and Charlie have been to Broadstone. They thought
they might meet you by the late train.'

Philip's colour rose. He stood up--sat down; then rising once more, leant on the mantel-piece,
scarcely knowing how to face either of them--his aunt, with her well-merited displeasure, and
Charles, who when he parted with him had accused him so justly--Charles, who had seen through
him and had been treated with scorn.

A few moments, and Charles came in, leaning on his mother. They both shook hands, exclaimed
at finding Amabel downstairs, and Mrs. Edmonstone asked after Philip's health in her would-be
cordial manner. The two ladies then went up-stairs together, and thus ended that conference,
in which both parties had shown rare magnanimity, of which they were perfectly unconscious;
and perhaps the most remarkable part of all was that Philip quietly gave up the great renunciation
and so-called sacrifice, with which he had been feeding his hopes, at the simple bidding of
the gentle-spoken Amabel--not even telling her that he resigned it. He kept the possessions
which he abhorred, and gave up the renunciation he had longed to make, and in this lay the
true sacrifice, the greater because the world would think him the gainer.

When the mother and daughter were gone, the cousins were silent, Philip resting his elbow on
the mantel-shelf and his head on his hand, and Charles sitting at the end of the sofa, warming
first one hand, then the other, while he looked up to the altered face, and perceived in it
grief and humiliation almost as plainly as illness. His keen eyes read that the sorrow was
indeed more deeply rooted than he had hitherto believed, and that Amabel's pity had not been
wasted; and he was also struck by the change from the great personal strength that used to
make nothing of lifting his whole weight.

'I am sorry to see you so pulled down,' said he. 'We must try if we can doctor you better than
they did at St. Mildred's. Are you getting on, do you think?'

He had hardly ever spoken to Philip, so entirely without either bitterness or sarcasm, and
his manner hardly seemed like that of the same person.

'Thank you, I am growing stronger; but as long as I cannot get rid of this headache, I am good
for nothing.'

'You have had a long spell of illness indeed,' said Charles. 'You can't expect to shake off
two fevers in no time. Now all the anxiety is over, you will brighten like this house.'

'But tell me, what is thought of Amabel? Is she as well as she ought to be?'

'Yes, quite, they say--has recovered her strength very fast, and is in just the right spirits.
She was churched yesterday, and was not the worse for it. It was a trial, for she had not been
to East-hill since--since last May.'

'It is a blessing, indeed,' said Philip, earnestly.

'She has been so very happy with the baby,' said Charles. 'You hear what its name is to be?'

'Yes, she told me in her letter.'

'To avoid having to tell you here, I suppose. Mary is for common wear, Verena is for ourselves.
She asked if it would be too foolish to give such a name, and mamma said the only question
was, whether she would like indifferent people to ask the reason of it.'

Philip lapsed into thought, and presently said, abruptly, 'When last we parted you told me
I was malignant. You were right.'

