 She
noted, as usual, Wilhelm from his principles, was based on his theory and his example and had
a zeither I do not know what in her nature, she interestingly made. They soon acquired a real game
and won the natural tone of the conversation completely and the sensation to a certain degree.
She knew in Serlo whims to send and of singing assiduously to please him, which she also came soon
come as one whose need for social entertainment.

By some newly adopted society actors was more fully, and by William and Serlo had each in his way,
that with each piece on the meaning and tone penetrated the whole, this worked by each part
carefully, picked a praiseworthy Enthusiasm the actors and the audience took a lively interest in them.

"We
are well on our way," Serlo once said, "and if we continue so will
the audience getting there on the right.

You can make people very easily by great and unseemly Representations led astray, but we put them
the rational and proper to an interesting As before, they will certainly fall accordingly.

What our theater mainly missing and why neither actors nor audiences
to their senses come, is that it sure looks to colorful throughout
and that nowhere has a limit what one could lean on his verdict.

It seems to me to be an advantage that we our Theaters have expanded as it were a scene of infinite
nature, but can now neither director nor actor to pull into a corner, maybe except the taste
of the Nation in the wake of the right circle itself known. A firm do any good only under certain
conditions, including a good theater. Certain manners and phrases certain objects and types
of conduct must be excluded. It is not poorer, if one pulls together his household. "

They were here about more or less agree and disagree. William and most were on the side of the
English, Serlo and some on the side of the French theater.

It was agreed, in idle hours, that an actor has, unfortunately, so many in society go through
the most famous plays of both theater and the best values ​​and imitating
to notice it.

It really made a start with some French pieces. Aurelie away each time when the lecture went on.
At first they were considered ill; But once they asked about it William, it was noticed.

"I will be present at any such course," she said, "because as I listen to and judge if my heart is
broken? I hate the French language with all Soul. "

"How can a language be hostile," exclaimed Wilhelm, "one of the largest part of his Education is
guilty and we owe much have to be before our being a figure can win?

"

"It's not prejudice!" said Aurelia, "an unfortunate impression that
a hated memory on my faithless friend and my fancy at this beautiful
and educated language has been stolen.

As I now hate with all my heart! During the time of our friendly relationship he wrote in German, and
what a warm, genuine, strong German! Now that he is me wanted to be rid of, he began to write French,
the previously sometimes only in jest was done. I felt, I realized what it could mean. He held in his
mother tongue blushed to say, he could now write down any bad feelings. For reservations,
half-measures and lies, it is an excellent language, she is a deceitful tongue! I think God
Thanks! not a German word to express "perfidious" in all its extent. Our poor faithless an innocent
child is against it. Perfidious is unfaithful with pleasure, with high spirits and Schadenfreude.
Oh, the formation of a nation is to be envied, so subtle shades express in one word white! French
law, the language of the world, is worth the common language to be, so they just all right with
each other to defraud and deceive ! Can His French letters could be read still good enough.
If one's would imagine that they sounded warm and even passionate, but on closer inspection,
it was Phrases, accursed phrases! He gave me all the joy of the whole language, from the French
Literature, even in the beautiful and delicious expression of noble souls corrupted in their own
dialect; I shudder when I hear a French word! "

In this way they could go on for hours to show their displeasure, and any other entertainment to interrupt
or annoy. Serlo made sooner or later their moody expressions with some bitterness to an end, but was
usually destroyed for the evening the conversation.

In general, it is unfortunately the case that everything that coincident with several people and circumstances
to be produced, not a long time may be obtained completely.

By a theater company as well as of a kingdom, then a circle of friends well as can be indicated
by an army usually the moment when, on the highest Stage of their perfection, their tally,
their satisfaction and activity were; often, however, changed quickly, the staff, new members
will emerge, fit person not to the circumstances, circumstances are no longer a person, it
will all be different, and what was previously connected falls apart soon now. So one could say
that Serlo Society for a time was as perfect as any German Had lays claim . Can Most of the actors
were in their place, and all had enough to do, and all did like to know what to do. Your personal
situation was tolerable, and each seemed promise in his art a lot, because each started with fire
and vivacity did. But soon discovered that some were only machines that reach only the could
know where they can go without feeling, and soon the passion mixed in between, usually any good
institution in the way and tear apart everything so easy which wish to hold together reasonable
and well-thinking people.

Philine's departure was not as insignificant as it was believed at first. She had with great skill to
maintain Serlo and the others more or less known to irritate. She bore Aurelia Violence with
great patience, and her own business was to wheedle Wilhelm.

She was a kind of bond funds for the whole, and its loss would soon be felt.

Serlo could not live without a little love affair. Elmira who grew up in less time and, one
might almost say, was more beautiful, had long been his attention
excited, and Phil was smart enough, the passion that she felt to favor.

"You needs, "she would say," lie down on the domes in time, it remains for us but more nothing left
when we get old. "This Serlo and Elmira had approached in such a way, that they were soon agreed
to Philine farewells, and the little novel she was interested both more so than him before the
old man about such irregularities are not Joke would have understood, had every reason to
keep secret. Elmira sister was in Understanding, and Serlo had two girls look so much. One of their
biggest Vices was an inordinate goodies, yes, if you will, an intolerable gluttony, what they
were like Philine no means, the fact a new show of kindness was that they lived as it only from
the air, very little ass, and only the foam of a Champagne glass with the greatest delicacy
wegschluerfte.

Now, however, had Serlo if he wanted to please his beautiful, the breakfast with lunch tie and
connect to this by a supper dinner. It had Serlo a plan whose execution troubled him. He felt
a certain inclination between Wilhelm and to discover Aurelien and
wished very much that she wants to be serious.

He hoped burdening the entire mechanical part of the theater industry and Wilhelm him how to his first
brother to find a faithful and industrious tool. He already had him in and after the largest
part of the procurement imperceptibly transferred, Aurelie led the box office, Serlo and lived again
as in former times all the way to his senses. But there was something both him secretly as
his sister hurt.

The audience has its own way against public men of acknowledged merit to procedures; it starts
gradually, to be indifferent to them, and much favored smaller, but newly published talents,
makes it to those over exaggerated claims and lets be dropped from
all this.

Serlo and Aurelia had ample opportunity to make observations about here. The new Comers, especially
the young and well educated, had all the attention, all the applause
to be drawn, and both siblings had the most time, according to their
most zealous efforts, transfer without the welcome sound of hands
beating together.

Of course, were added yet special causes. Aurelia's pride was remarkable, and their contempt
for the audience many were taught. Serlo flattered indeed anyone in detail, but his sharp Talk about
the whole thing had been carried around but also more often and repeatedly. The new Members, however,
were mostly foreign and unknown, some young, lovable and huelfsbeduerftig and would thus have
all Goenner found.

Now there was soon much internal unrest and displeasure, for scarcely noticed it, that William
had taken over the employment of a director, so began most of the actors to the more to be naughty,
as he in his own way a little more order and precision wished to
bring in the whole and particularly insisted that anything mechanical
before all things should go on time and tidy.

In a short time was the whole relationship, that really held for a time almost idealistically had,
so mean, as some may find it only at a itinerant theater. And unfortunately at the moment
than by Wilhelm Muehe, diligence and effort with all requirements
of the profession and made known his person as well as his business
entirely to had formed, it seemed to him at length in dark hours,
that this trade is less than any differently earn the necessary amount
of time and powers.

The shop was annoying and the rewards small. He would have rather taken over each other, in which
one yet, if it's over, can enjoy the peace of mind, as this is where it after surviving mechanical
toil nor by the highest effort of mind and emotion will only reach the goal of his activity. He had
complaints about the waste of Aurelia hear of the brother he had misunderstood the hints Serlo,
if he to marry conduct with his sister from a distance looking for. He had to hide while his
grief, the pressed him most deeply by the dismissed after the ambiguous officer messenger not returned,
nothing left to hear of our friend and therefore to its Mariane second beat you had to fear.

At
the very time thought of a general mourning, which was compelled to, the theater on to close
for several weeks. He seized the meantime, to visit those clergy was with what the harp player
in the diet. He found him in a nice area, and the first thing he saw in the parsonage, was the old man,
a boy on his instrument Lesson was. He testified much pleasure at seeing Wilhelm stood up and
gave him the Hand and said, "you see in the world that I still take advantage" to have something
and you allow that I continue, because the hours are divided. "

The priest welcomed Wilhelm in the friendliest and told him that the
Old already quite good starter and that you have hope for his full
recovery.

Her conversation was of course the method to cure mad.

"Besides the physical," said the priest, "that we often insuperable difficulties in the way places
and which I prefer a thoughtful physician, I find the means to heal from madness, very simple.
It is precisely the same, yielding healthy people prevents them from
going mad.

It excites their Selbsttaetigkeit, they are usually of order, you give them an idea that their
existence and fate so many have in common is that the extraordinary
talent, the greatest happiness and the highest accident only small
deviations from the ordinary are, so no crazy creep, and if he is
there, after and disappear again.

I have the old man's assigned hours, he teaches some children on
the harp, it helps to work in the garden and is much more cheerful.

He wishes to enjoy from the coal, which he planted, and we wish my son, he harp on In case of
death has given to teach rather busy, so they need the boy, too can. As a clergyman I am looking
for him about his wonderful scruple to say very little but leads an active life thereby generating
many events that he must feel now that any type of doubt can be raised only by effectiveness.
I go quietly to work; but if I can take him or his beard and robe, I have gained a lot: because
it brings us no closer to madness than if we distinguish ourselves from others, and nothing gets so
much in common understanding, as in the general sense to many people to live. How much is unfortunately
not in our education and our civic institutions, which we prepare ourselves and our children
to madness. "

William stayed at the reasonable man a few days and found the most interesting Stories, not only
by crazy people, but also by those who for one as wise, even for keeping owns and maintains
close to border on madness.

Triple but was revived the conversation, as the doctor entered, the clergy, his Friend to visit
more often and assist him in his philanthropic efforts used. There was an elderly man in frail
health for many years in a had spent pursuit of the noblest duties. He was a great friend
of country life and could be almost no different than in the open air, yet he was extremely sociable and
active and for many years had a special affection, friendship with
all the country clergy to donate.

Every where he knew a useful occupation, he sought in every way stand by, others who were still
undetermined, he tried to persuade a hobby, and there he stood at the same time with the nobles,
and court Amtmaennern holders name, so He had time in twenty years,
very much in secret to the culture of many branches of agriculture
contributed, and all that the fields, animals and humans is beneficial,
in motion and so carries the most true enlightenment.

For the people, he said, was only one a Accident if they have any idea firmly set in him that do
not affect the active life have him or perhaps even remove it from the active life. "I have,"
he said, "is currently a such a case, a prestigious and wealthy couple, where I first failed
up to now have all art is, almost the case belongs in your pocket, dear pastor, and this young
man who will not . Weitererzaehlen

In the absence of a nobleman disguised one, with a not praiseworthy Jokes, a young man in the
house dressed in the Lord. His wife should therefore be executed and whether you like it tells
me only as a farce, I'm afraid but very, there was an intention, the noble, lovely lady from
the right path to derive. The husband comes back unexpectedly, comes into his room, believes himself
to see and falls from the time in a melancholy in which he feeds the conviction that he soon will
die.

He leaves the people who flatter him with religious ideas, and I do not see how to stop it, to
go with his wife in which Mr. Huter and the largest Part of his assets because he has no children,
to avoid its relatives. "

"With his wife?" cried Wilhelm, this story had not a little frightened, impetuosity from.

"And unfortunately," replied the doctor, in Wilhelm's proclamation only a philanthropic participation
To listen thought "this lady with a still deeper grief afflicted, a distance of their of the
world does not disgusting. It is this young man takes leave of her, she is not careful enough
to hide a burgeoning affection, and he will Kuehn, she concludes in his arms and pressed her
big, forcibly occupied with brilliant portrait of her husband against
the chest.

She feels a sharp pain that goes by and by, first an little redness and then leaves no trace.
I am certain as a human being that they are has nothing further to accuse, I am sure as a doctor,
that this pressure is no ill-effects would have, but they can not
be talked out of it as a hardening, and if you their behavior by the
feeling will the madness, they asserted that only in this moment to
feel nothing, it has been imagined that it would this evil with a
canker to terminate, and so is her youth, her charm for them and others
completely lost.

"

"I am most unhappy!" said Wilhelm, as he struck his forehead and from the company ran into the field.
He had been never been in such a state.

Book V, 16 Chapter - 2

The doctor and the priest, about this strange discovery was greatly surprised, in the evening
enough to do with him when he came back with the impractical and commitment of this event down
on the busiest accused. Both men took the largest share of him, especially since you left position
he now painted with black colors of the mood of the moment.

The next day the doctor could not be asked twice to go with him to the city to him company to Aurelien
that her boyfriend left behind in precarious circumstances had, where
possible to provide assistance.

They found it really worse than they suspected.

She had a way of skipping Fever, which was to get at the less than they intentionally attacks
by type maintained and strengthened. The stranger was introduced not as a doctor and was very Anything
else, and smart. They spoke on the condition of their body and mind, and the new friend told
some stories of how people, regardless of such ill-health could reach
a great age, but nothing is more harmful than in such cases, a premeditated
renewal of passionate feelings.

He especially did not hide that he found those people very happy, which can occur in all manufactured
sickly plant truly religious sentiments were intended to nourish with her would be. He said this at
a very modest way and as historically and promised this, his new
friends a very interesting read to give a manuscript he had received
from the hands of a now departed friend, excellent.

"It is infinitely valuable to me, "he said," and I trust you, the original itself. Only the Title is
from my hand: "Confessions of a beautiful soul."

on dietary and medical treatment of the ill-fated, fixed Aurelie familiar the physician Wilhelm
nor his best advice promised to write and perhaps even come back.

Meanwhile, in William's absence, prepared for a change, which he did not suspect could. William
had during the time he directed the entire business with a certain Freedom and Liberalitaet treated,
seen chiefly on the matter, and especially in clothing, Decorations and props, all purchased plentiful
and decent, even to the good to obtain the will of the people, flattered their self-interest,
since they get by nobler motives could not get at, and he found himself in this all the more
justified when no self Serlo Exigencies made to be a specific host, praise the splendor of
his theater heard you and was happy when Aurelia, which led the whole household, after deduction
of all costs assured that they have no debt, and yet so much hergab
than was necessary, the debt to bear the Serlo meanwhile by his extraordinary
generosity to Schoenen and might otherwise have as upon himself.

Melina, however, took care of the wardrobe was, cold and treacherous as he was, the Thing quietly watched
and knew in the removal of William and with the increasing disease Aurelia Serlo to make itself
felt, that you actually are taking more and spend less either lay back or something but end up living
under despotism can even funnier. Serlo heard the like, and Melina ventured forth with his
plan.

"I want", he said, "not claim that a present from the actors too much Gage added: there are deserving
people and they would be welcome in any place, alone for the income they give us, get it too
much. My suggestion would be, set up an opera, and as for the spectacle, I must tell you, you are
the man alone to identify an entire show. Do you need to know not even now, that it fails to
recognize your achievements?

Not because of your excellent players, but because they are good, can we take your extraordinary
talent no justice happen.

Imagine, as have happened otherwise, but only out looking mediocre, yes I would say poor people
are moving to small for Gage to be, trim the people, as you understand
it so much to the mechanical, please contact the remainder of the
opera, and will see that you attract the same effort and more satisfaction
with the same cost and far more money than before to win.

"

Serlo was very flattered, not that his objections are to have had some strength. He confessed
to Melina like to see it in his hobby of music long ago something wished have, but he saw
a course that the inclination of the public by more astray led and that with such a mixture of
a theater, the opera is not not right, right Acting is necessarily the remnant of taste at
a specific and detailed Art would have to lose yourself completely.

Melina was not joking about very fine William pedantic ideals of this kind, about the presumption,
form the audience, instead of being formed by him, and both combined with great conviction that
we only take money, get rich or that it should make merry, and hid hard to believe that they go
only to those persons to be wished that their plan stood in the way.

 Those demanding that Hamlet be executed entirely unzerstueckt should
be, and had agreed to this strange desire fallen so far as it possible would be. Now they had previously
been some controversy over here, for what possible or was not possible and what can be omitted
from the piece without mutilating it, both were very different opinions.

Wilhelm was still in the happy days when you can not understand that at a beloved girl, a revered
writers can be something lacking. Our perception of them is quite so consistent with itself,
that we think of them in such perfect harmony must. Serlo contrast, secreted like and almost
too much, and his sharp mind was usually in an art only a more recognize or less imperfect
whole. He believed, like you find the pieces that have is little reason to deal with them so
very slowly, and so had to Shakespeare, had to suffer, especially "Hamlet" a lot.

Wilhelm did not hear if that spoke of the separation of the chaff
from the wheat.

"It is not wheat chaff and confused," he cried, "it is a trunk, branches, twigs, Leaves, buds, blossoms
and fruits. Is not one with another, and by the other? " The former claimed that one does not
bring the whole tribe on the table, and the artists have golden apples in silver dishes to its
guests rich.
 On the sad song that was sung at once, he saw the harp player. The song that he could understand
very well contained, the consolation of a tragedy which the madness feels very close. Unfortunately,
Wilhelm keep them only the last stanza.
Every fairy child may keep Two strong ponies and ten sheep; All have houses, each his own,
Built of brick or granite stone; They live on cherries, they run wild-- I'd love to be a Fairy's
child. 

Book V, 5 Chapter

Chapter Five

Wilhelm had long been given a translation of "Hamlet" and he had this the brilliant Wieland's work
served, by which he first became acquainted with Shakespeare at all. What was left out in the
same, he added, and so he was in possession of a complete Copy at the moment because he Serlo pretty
much agree about the treatment become was. He now began, according to his plans, and insert
to separate and unite, , to supervise and often recover, because
he was so pleased with his idea, so seemed to him but always in the
execution that the original will just spoiled.

Once he finished, he read it Serlo and the rest of society. They testified to very happy with
it, especially Serlo made some favorable comments.

"You have," he said, among other things, "felt very right that external circumstances of this
Composition accompany, but must be easier than it has given us the great poet. What is going
on outside the theater, what the viewer sees not what he imagined must is like a background
to move before the playing figures move. The large, simple Views of the fleet and Norway will do
the pieces very well, If one were to leave out, it's just a family scene, and the great idea
that this is a whole royal House through internal crimes and blunders
is based is not in its full Would be represented.

But that would confuse even the background manifold, mobile: it would benefit the impressions
of the characters damage. "

William Shakespeare again took the match and showed that he had written
for islanders I, for Englishmen, even in the background only ships
and voyages, the coast of France and lived to see Kaper, and that
what those quite common, whether scatter and confuse us already.

Serlo had to give in, and both agreed that since the piece is now
once German theater is meant to be serious and simple background for
our way of picturing would fit best. 

The next morning she had a quiet hour. She let William and handed him a call Letter. "This sheet,"
she said, "has long been waiting for this moment. I feel, that the end of my life soon approaching,
you promise me that you make it yourself and that you will avenge my suffering by a few words
of the unfaithful. He is not insensibility, and at least it will hurt my death for a moment.
"

Wilhelm took over the letter, but comforted by it and the idea of
​​the death of her wanted to remove.

"No," she replied, "You behave me my next hope. I have him for a long expect and want him joyfully
in his arms. "

Shortly after the manuscript to the doctor promised. She asked Wilhelm, from her read, and the effect
it did, will the reader can judge best when He has made himself acquainted with the following
book. The violent and defiant nature of our poor friend was relieved at once. She took the letter
back and wrote another, it seemed very gentle mood, she too asked
Wilhelm to her friend when it should be some sad by the news of her
death, to comfort, to reassure him, that she had forgiven him and
that they wish him luck.

From that time she was very quiet and seemed to deal only with a few ideas they tried to make our
own from the manuscript, from which she William from time to time
had to read.

The decrease of forces was not visible, and suddenly she found Wilhelm one morning dead when
he went to visit her.

In the respect that he live for them, had,
and in the habit of using it, it was their loss is very painful. 

Two or three houses were in full flame. In the garden had no one can save Due to a fire in Gartengewoelbe.
William was embarrassed by his friends, less for his things. He did not dare to leave the children,
and saw the accident is always enlarge.

He brought in a few hours of anxiously situation. He led them to the ruins of the zusammengestuerzten
building, and they found next to a coal-ash pile and a very cozy warmth.

The dawn of day brought all friends and acquaintances together gradually. Everyone had saved,
no one had lost a lot.

William's case was also found again, and drove Serlo than about ten clock, went to trial of "Hamlet,"
at least some scenes that were occupied by new actors. He had to a few debates with the police.
The clergy demanded: that after a such judgments of God should remain the main house is closed, and
claimed Serlo: that in part to replace what he lost that night, partly to amuse the terrified Minds
of the performance of an interesting bit more than was ever in place. This last opinion prevailed,
and the house was filled. The actors played with rare Fire and more passionate freedom than before.
The audience, that feeling increased by the terrible scene and nightly by the boredom of a scattered
and spoiled the day, more on an interesting conversation was tense, had more Susceptibility
to the Extraordinary. The biggest part was new, by the reputation of the Exhibit; contrived
audience who could not make comparisons with the first evening. The Boisterous played in the
spirit of the Unknown Spirit, and the pedant had his predecessor equally well be fit, next stood
him in good stead very wretchedness that he Hamlet did not really wrong in him, despite his purple
coat and ermine collar, a patched rags Koenig scolded.

Strange as it was perhaps no one gets to the throne, and although
the others, particularly But Phil, is about making his new would be
very funny, so remember he had yet; that the count, as a great connoisseur
of this and much more of it predicted at the first sight have, however,
admonished him to humility and Phil assured him she would occasionally
Rockaermel powder so it will remember that unfortunate night in the
castle and the crown bear with humility might.

Book V, 14 Chapter

Chapter Fourteen

They had looked about the speed after quarters, and the company were
thus been very scattered.

William had the gazebo in the garden, where he spent the night, fond,
and he received the keys to easily and installed himself there, but
as Aurelie in her new apartment was very close, he had to keep at
Felix, and AA would not leave the boy.

The children had taken a pretty room in the first floor, Wilhelm had in the lower hall set up.
The children slept, but he could find no rest.

In addition to the pleasant garden, the newly risen full moon lit up beautifully, were the sad
ruins of which now and then rose even more steam and the air was
pleasant and the night extremely beautiful.

Phil had when going out of the theater with him the elbow and painted him zugelispelt some words
that he does not understand had. He was confused and angry and did not know what to do or
expect. Phil had shunned him for several days and it only this evening playing a character.
Unfortunately, now the door was burned, he should not be ruled, and the slippers had gone
up in smoke. Such as Beauty would come into the garden when it is their intention was, he did
not know.
 Instead
of the usual entertainment in the evening they began to yawn, the interest in "Hamlet" was exhausted,
and it was rather uncomfortable, he presented the following day for the second should be. Wilhelm
was before the veil of the spirit, you had to conclude that he would not return. Serlo was
especially this opinion, it seemed, with the advice the wonderful figure to be very familiar, but could
also, however, the words: "Fly! Juengling fly! Explain "not. Serlo How could agree with someone
to the excellent to remove actor of his company's intention to have appeared.

It was necessary now to assess the role of the mind the rumble and the role of the king to
be pedantic. 

We see from this example how fond people at their best only in its own way would like to achieve,
how much distress you have to make them understand what is actually of self-evident, and how
hard it is to those who wish to do something, to the knowledge to bring the first conditions under
which his project is only possible.

Book V, 9 Chapter

Chapter Nine

They now proceeded to make the necessary
preparations for decorations and clothes, and whatever else needed
was to make. about some scenes and places William had special grilling,
which Serlo gave way and partly in consideration for the contract,
partly from conviction and because he hoped, Wilhelm to win through
this gap and draw in more of the following according to his intentions.

Thus,

for example, king and queen at the first audience seated on the throne appear, the courtiers at the
sides and Hamlet are insignificant among them. "Hamlet," he said, "Must keep quiet, and his
black dress distinguishes him enough, he must. hide rather than come to light. Only when the audience
is ended when The king spoke to him as a son, then he may enter and
bring the scene to go its course.

"

Another major difficulty is the two paintings, in which Hamlet in the scene with his mother
so hard covers. "I will," said Wilhelm, "in both life-size Basically the room visible next to
the main door, namely, the old Koenig complete armor, as the Spirit,
hang on bisexual side, where it emerges.

I wish, assume that the figure with the right hand in a commanding position, and was somewhat
turned as it saw over the shoulder so they totally the same spirit in the moment While this
is outside the door. It will produce a very large effect, if at this moment Hamlet in the
spirit and the queen sees in the image. The stepfather may in the royal Regalia will be, but insignificant
as those presented. "

There were still several issues to talk about where we might have a chance.

"Are you also adamant that Hamlet must die at the end?" asked Serlo.

"How can I keep him alive," said Wilhelm, "because it expresses the whole way to death? We have
already spoken so extensively about it. "

"But the public wants him alive."

"I want to do it like every other pleasure, only this time it is impossible. We wish also that
a good, useful man who is dying of a chronic disease, even longer may live. The family weeps and
conjures the doctor, who can not hold him, and so little to resist this as a natural necessity
can, any more than we can from a recognized Art need areas.

It is a false deference to the crowd when you they excited the feelings
that they want, and not intended to have.

"

"Who brings the money, the goods may demand his senses."

"In a way, but deserves a large audience that it eighth, that you might not like Children to
whom you want to remove the money, treat. They bring him gradually through the Good taste and
feeling for the good at, and it will be money with double pleasure
, Appeal to him because of the mind, indeed the reason this issue
even with nothing to reproach added.

You can flatter him as a beloved child, cajole, to improve it to to enlighten future, not as
a privileged and rich to the error which you are using, to perpetuate. "

They still acted as much, which referred particularly to the question:
what is still about Change customer at the pieces may and what it
should remain untouched.

We can then not elaborate, but, perhaps, in future, the new edit
"Hamlet" itself to that Part of our readers, which could reach interested
about it.

Book V, 10 Chapter

Chapter Ten

The rehearsal was over, they had taken excessively long. Serlo and William were to still get some
things: for, notwithstanding all that time, which are used to prepare had, but very necessary preparations
to the last moment, had been postponed.
For example, the painting of the two kings were not ready yet, and
the scene between Hamlet and his mother, whom they hoped such a large
effect saw still very thin, by neither the spirit nor his painted
likeness was there presently. Serlo joked at this occasion and said,
"Would that we had in fact been executed quite nauseous when the mind
forthcoming, fight the guard really with the air and our prompter
from the wings the supplieres of mind would have to talk. " He looked at himself in the mirror, pressed
the hat lower face and renewed the make-up.

At that moment, someone rushed in and shouted: "The spirit of the Spirit!"

William had not had time all day to think about the main concern, whether the mind also will come.
Now it was all taken away, and you had to expect the most wonderful cameo. The theater came and
asked about this and that, William had no time after look around the ghost and went only to
the throne einzufinden where kings and queens have surrounded by her court in all glory glittered,
and he heard only the last words of Horatio, who spoke about the
phenomenon of mind and almost bewildered his role seemed to have forgotten.

Between

the curtain went up, and he saw the full house to himself. After Horatio His speech was held
by kings and cleared, he pushed himself to Hamlet, and as if he he, the prince, present, he
said: "The devil is in the armor He has driven us all in fear. "

In the meantime, we saw only two big men in white coats and hoods in the Scenes are, and William,
in the diversion, anxiety and embarrassment, the first monologue, as he believed, failed, an error
occurs, whether it is strong applause at the same waiver, accompanied really in a terrible winter's
night very uncomfortable to dramatic. But he took together and said the so expedient mounted
over the place feasting and drinking the northern countries associated with the indifference, forgot,
as the audience about it of mind and really scared when Horatio cried: "Look, it's coming!" He
ran Violence around, and the noble, great shape, soft, inaudible passage, the slight movement
in the heavy armor shining such a strong impression on him that he was petrified stood only with
low voice: "You angels and heavenly spirits protect us!" exclaim could. He stared at him, took breath
a few times and brought the salutation to the spirit so confused torn apart and forced to imagine
that the greatest art can not express so well would have . Can

His translation of this point it was invaluable.

He had been close to the original kept its word order him the constitution of a startled, surprised,
horrified by taken mind seemed to express only.

"Be a good spirit, be a fucking goblin, bringing scents of heaven with you, or Fumes of hell,
whether good or bad your start, you come in as dignified a figure, yes I'm talking to you, I call
you answer, Hamlet, King, father, oh, my! "We felt the Publiko the biggest impact. The spirit
waved the prince followed him with the loudest applause.

The theater was transformed, and when they came to the remote place, the spirit was unexpectedly
hold, and turned around, because he was Hamlet to stand too close. With desire and Wilhelm
curiosity immediately looked into it between the established visor,
but could only deep-set eyes in addition to a well-formed nose behold. Power but in God's name not so
much trouble! The guests, standing up from the table, have after every meals what will be achieved;
so when she heard at home, for them it is hard to understand how they have such a need can stand.
" I was soon naked bear to where no Applause to our
ears more coming, "With these words she jumped up and ran to the door. The maid had failed to bring
her the coat, the sedan-chair was not there, it had rain, and a very harsh wind blew through
the streets. We spoke to her in vain, for it was heated excessively, it was premeditated and
praised the slow cooling, they seemed quite eager to suck.
 Aurelia did not want to admit that he made use of a surgeon; They even connected
him with all sorts of strange speeches, ceremonies and awards and was by him in a very embarrassing
situation. But not he alone but all persons were in their vicinity, suffered by her restlessness
and oddness, but none more when little Felix. The lively child was under such pressure and
impatiently was always naughty, the more they blamed and rebuked.
 

"Certainly I do not find words, but seems related to other places it me incontrovertible. His
fencing is sour, the sweat runs from his face, and "He is bold to come, let him catch his breath.":
The Queen talks