COBBETT'S ADVICE TO YOUNG MEN

And (Incidentally) to Young Women, in the Middle and Higher Ranks of Life. In a Series of Letters,
Addressed to a Youth, a Bachelor, a Lover, a Husband, a Father, a Citizen, or a Subject.

by

WILLIAM COBBETT

(From the Edition of 1829) London Henry Frowde 1906 Oxford: Horace Hart Printer to the University

INTRODUCTION

1. It is the duty, and ought to be the pleasure, of age and experience to warn and instruct
youth and to come to the aid of inexperience. When sailors have discovered rocks or breakers,
and have had the good luck to escape with life from amidst them, they, unless they be pirates
or barbarians as well as sailors, point out the spots for the placing of buoys and of lights,
in order that others may not be exposed to the danger which they have so narrowly escaped.
What man of common humanity, having, by good luck, missed being engulfed in a quagmire or quicksand,
will withhold from his neighbours a knowledge of the peril without which the dangerous spots
are not to be approached?

2. The great effect which correct opinions and sound principles, imbibed in early life, together
with the good conduct, at that age, which must naturally result from such opinions and principles;
the great effect which these have on the whole course of our lives is, and must be, well known
to every man of common observation. How many of us, arrived at only forty years, have to repent;
nay, which of us has not to repent, or has not had to repent, that he did not, at an earlier
age, possess a great stock of knowledge of that kind which has an immediate effect on our personal
ease and happiness; that kind of knowledge, upon which the cheerfulness and the harmony of
our homes depend!

3. It is to communicate a stock of this sort of knowledge, in particular, that this work is
intended; knowledge, indeed, relative to education, to many sciences, to trade, agriculture,
horticulture, law, government, and religion; knowledge relating, incidentally, to all these;
but, the main object is to furnish that sort of knowledge to the young which but few men acquire
until they be old, when it comes too late to be useful.

4. To communicate to others the knowledge that I possess has always been my taste and my delight;
and few, who know anything of my progress through life, will be disposed to question my fitness
for the task. Talk of rocks and breakers and quagmires and quicksands, who has ever escaped
from amidst so many as I have! Thrown (by my own will, indeed) on the wide world at a very
early age, not more than eleven or twelve years, without money to support, without friends
to advise, and without book-learning to assist me; passing a few years dependent solely on
my own labour for my subsistence; then becoming a common soldier and leading a military life,
chiefly in foreign parts, for eight years; quitting that life after really, for me, high promotion,
and with, for me, a large sum of money; marrying at an early age, going at once to France to
acquire the French language, thence to America; passing eight years there, becoming bookseller
and author, and taking a prominent part in all the important discussions of the interesting
period from 1793 to 1799, during which there was, in that country, a continued struggle carried
on between the English and the French parties; conducting myself, in the ever-active part which
I took in that struggle, in such a way as to call forth marks of unequivocal approbation from
the government at home; returning to England in 1800, resuming my labours here, suffering,
during these twenty-nine years, two years of imprisonment, heavy fines, three years self-banishment
to the other side of the Atlantic, and a total breaking of fortune, so as to be left without
a bed to lie on, and, during these twenty-nine years of troubles and of punishments, writing
and publishing, every week of my life, whether in exile or not, eleven weeks only excepted,
a periodical paper, containing more or less of matter worthy of public attention; writing and
publishing, during the same twenty-nine years, a grammar of the French and another of the English
language, a work on the Economy of the Cottage, a work on Forest Trees and Woodlands, a work
on Gardening, an account of America, a book of Sermons, a work on the Corn-plant, a History
of the Protestant Reformation; all books of great and continued sale, and the last unquestionably
the book of greatest circulation in the whole world, the Bible only excepted; having, during
these same twenty-nine years of troubles and embarrassments without number, introduced into
England the manufacture of Straw-plat; also several valuable trees; having introduced, during
the same twenty-nine years, the cultivation of the Corn-plant, so manifestly valuable as a
source of food; having, during the same period, always (whether in exile or not) sustained
a shop of some size, in London; having, during the whole of the same period, never employed
less, on an average, than ten persons, in some capacity or other, exclusive of printers, bookbinders,
and others, connected with papers and books; and having, during these twenty-nine years of
troubles, embarrassments, prisons, fines, and banishments, bred up a family of seven children
to man's and woman's state.

5. If such a man be not, after he has survived and accomplished all this, qualified to give
Advice to Young Men, no man is qualified for that task. There may have been natural genius:
but genius alone, not all the genius in the world, could, without something more, have conducted
me through these perils. During these twenty-nine years, I have had for deadly and ever-watchful
foes, a government that has the collecting and distributing of sixty millions of pounds in
a year, and also every soul who shares in that distribution. Until very lately, I have had,
for the far greater part of the time, the whole of the press as my deadly enemy. Yet, at this
moment, it will not be pretended, that there is another man in the kingdom, who has so many
cordial friends. For as to the friends of ministers and the great, the friendship is towards
the power, the influence; it is, in fact, towards those taxes, of which so many thousands are
gaping to get at a share. And, if we could, through so thick a veil, come at the naked fact,
we should find the subscription, now going on in Dublin for the purpose of erecting a monument
in that city, to commemorate the good recently done, or alleged to be done, to Ireland, by
the DUKE of WELLINGTON; we should find, that the subscribers have the taxes in view; and that,
if the monument shall actually be raised, it ought to have selfishness, and not gratitude,
engraven on its base. Nearly the same may be said with regard to all the praises that we hear
bestowed on men in power. The friendship which is felt towards me is pure and disinterested:
it is not founded in any hope that the parties can have, that they can ever profit from professing
it: it is founded on the gratitude which they entertain for the good that I have done them;
and, of this sort of friendship, and friendship so cordial, no man ever possessed a larger portion.

6. Now, mere genius will not acquire this for a man. There must be something more than genius:
there must be industry: there must be perseverance: there must be, before the eyes of the nation,
proofs of extraordinary exertion: people must say to themselves, 'What wise conduct must there
have been in the employing of the time of this man! How sober, how sparing in diet, how early
a riser, how little expensive he must have been!' These are the things, and not genius, which
have caused my labours to be so incessant and so successful: and, though I do not affect to
believe, that every young man, who shall read this work, will become able to perform labours
of equal magnitude and importance, I do pretend, that every young man, who will attend to my
advice, will become able to perform a great deal more than men generally do perform, whatever
may be his situation in life; and, that he will, too, perform it with greater ease and satisfaction
than he would, without the advice, be able to perform the smaller portion.

7. I have had, from thousands of young men, and men advanced in years also, letters of thanks
for the great benefit which they have derived from my labours. Some have thanked me for my
Grammars, some for my Cottage Economy, others for the Woodlands and the Gardener; and, in short,
for every one of my works have I received letters of thanks from numerous persons, of whom
I had never heard before. In many cases I have been told, that, if the parties had had my books
to read some years before, the gain to them, whether in time or in other things, would have
been very great. Many, and a great many, have told me, that, though long at school, and though
their parents had paid for their being taught English Grammar, or French, they had, in a short
time, learned more from my books, on those subjects, than they had learned, in years, from
their teachers. How many gentlemen have thanked me, in the strongest terms, for my Woodlands
and Gardener, observing (just as Lord Bacon had observed in his time) that they had before
seen no books, on these subjects, that they could understand! But, I know not of anything that
ever gave me more satisfaction than I derived from the visit of a gentleman of fortune, whom
I had never heard of before, and who, about four years ago, came to thank me in person for
a complete reformation, which had been worked in his son by the reading of my two SERMONS on
drinking and on gaming.

8. I have, therefore, done, already, a great deal in this way: but, there is still wanting,
in a compact form, a body of ADVICE such as that which I now propose to give: and in the giving
of which I shall divide my matter as follows. 1. Advice addressed to a YOUTH; 2. Advice addressed
to a BACHELOR; 3. Advice addressed to a LOVER; 4. To a HUSBAND; 5. To a FATHER; 6. To a CITIZEN
or SUBJECT.

9. Some persons will smile, and others laugh outright, at the idea of 'Cobbett's giving advice
for conducting the affairs of love.' Yes, but I was once young, and surely I may say with the
poet, I forget which of them,

  'Though old I am, for ladies' love unfit,
  The power of beauty I remember yet.'

I forget, indeed, the names of the ladies as completely, pretty nigh, as I do that of the poets;
but I remember their influence, and of this influence on the conduct and in the affairs and
on the condition of men, I have, and must have, been a witness all my life long. And, when
we consider in how great a degree the happiness of all the remainder of a man's life depends,
and always must depend, on his taste and judgment in the character of a lover, this may well
be considered as the most important period of the whole term of his existence.

10. In my address to the HUSBAND, I shall, of course, introduce advice relative to the important
duties of masters and servants; duties of great importance, whether considered as affecting
families or as affecting the community. In my address to the CITIZEN or SUBJECT, I shall consider
all the reciprocal duties of the governors and the governed, and also the duties which man
owes to his neighbour. It would be tedious to attempt to lay down rules for conduct exclusively
applicable to every distinct calling, profession, and condition of life; but, under the above-described
heads, will be conveyed every species of advice of which I deem the utility to be unquestionable.

11. I have thus fully described the nature of my little work, and, before I enter on the first
Letter, I venture to express a hope, that its good effects will be felt long after its author
shall have ceased to exist.

LETTER I

TO A YOUTH

12. You are now arrived at that age which the law thinks sufficient to make an oath, taken
by you, valid in a court of law. Let us suppose from fourteen to nearly twenty; and, reserving,
for a future occasion, my remarks on your duty towards parents, let me here offer you my advice
as to the means likely to contribute largely towards making you a happy man, useful to all
about you, and an honour to those from whom you sprang.

13. Start, I beseech you, with a conviction firmly fixed on your mind, that you have no right
to live in this world; that, being of hale body and sound mind, you have no right to any earthly
existence, without doing work of some sort or other, unless you have ample fortune whereon
to live clear of debt; and, that even in that case, you have no right to breed children, to
be kept by others, or to be exposed to the chance of being so kept. Start with this conviction
thoroughly implanted on your mind. To wish to live on the labour of others is, besides the
folly of it, to contemplate a fraud at the least, and, under certain circumstances, to meditate
oppression and robbery.

14. I suppose you in the middle rank of life. Happiness ought to be your great object, and
it is to be found only in independence. Turn your back on Whitehall and on Somerset-House;
leave the Customs and Excise to the feeble and low-minded; look not for success to favour,
to partiality, to friendship, or to what is called interest: write it on your heart, that you
will depend solely on your own merit and your own exertions. Think not, neither, of any of
those situations where gaudy habiliments and sounding titles poorly disguise from the eyes
of good sense the mortifications and the heart-ache of slaves. Answer me not by saying, that
these situations 'must be filled by somebody;' for, if I were to admit the truth of the proposition,
which I do not, it would remain for you to show that they are conducive to happiness, the contrary
of which has been proved to me by the observation of a now pretty long life.

15. Indeed, reason tells us, that it must be thus: for that which a man owes to favour or to
partiality, that same favour or partiality is constantly liable to take from him. He who lives
upon anything except his own labour, is incessantly surrounded by rivals: his grand resource
is that servility in which he is always liable to be surpassed. Far from me be the thought,
that any youth who shall read this page would not rather perish than submit to live in a state
like this! Such a state is fit only for the refuse of nature; the halt, the half-blind, the
unhappy creatures whom nature has marked out for degradation.

16. And how comes it, then, that we see hale and even clever youths voluntarily bending their
necks to this slavery; nay, pressing forward in eager rivalship to assume the yoke that ought
to be insupportable? The cause, and the only cause, is, that the deleterious fashion of the
day has created so many artificial wants, and has raised the minds of young men so much above
their real rank and state of life, that they look scornfully on the employment, the fare, and
the dress, that would become them; and, in order to avoid that state in which they might live
free and happy, they become showy slaves.

17. The great source of independence, the French express in a precept of three words, 'Vivre
de peu,' which I have always very much admired. 'To live upon little' is the great security
against slavery; and this precept extends to dress and other things besides food and drink.
When DOCTOR JOHNSON wrote his Dictionary, he put in the word pensioner thus: 'PENSIONER--A
slave of state.' After this he himself became a pensioner! And thus, agreeably to his own definition,
he lived and died 'a slave of state!' What must this man of great genius, and of great industry
too, have felt at receiving this pension! Could he be so callous as not to feel a pang upon
seeing his own name placed before his own degrading definition? And what could induce him to
submit to this? His wants, his artificial wants, his habit of indulging in the pleasures of
the table; his disregard of the precept 'Vivre de peu.' This was the cause; and, be it observed,
that indulgences of this sort, while they tend to make men poor and expose them to commit mean
acts, tend also to enfeeble the body, and more especially to cloud and to weaken the mind.

18. When this celebrated author wrote his Dictionary, he had not been debased by luxurious
enjoyments; the rich and powerful had not caressed him into a slave; his writings then bore
the stamp of truth and independence: but, having been debased by luxury, he who had, while
content with plain fare, been the strenuous advocate of the rights of the people, became a
strenuous advocate for taxation without representation; and, in a work under the title of 'Taxation
no Tyranny,' defended, and greatly assisted to produce, that unjust and bloody war which finally
severed from England that great country the United states of America, now the most powerful
and dangerous rival that this kingdom ever had. The statue of Dr. JOHNSON was the first that
was put into St. PAUL'S CHURCH! A signal warning to us not to look upon monuments in honour
of the dead as a proof of their virtues; for here we see St. PAUL'S CHURCH holding up to the
veneration of posterity a man whose own writings, together with the records of the pension
list, prove him to have been 'a slave of state.'

19. Endless are the instances of men of bright parts and high spirit having been, by degrees,
rendered powerless and despicable, by their imaginary wants. Seldom has there been a man with
a fairer prospect of accomplishing great things and of acquiring lasting renown, than CHARLES
FOX: he had great talents of the most popular sort; the times were singularly favourable to
an exertion of them with success; a large part of the nation admired him and were his partisans;
he had, as to the great question between him and his rival (PITT), reason and justice clearly
on his side: but he had against him his squandering and luxurious habits: these made him dependent
on the rich part of his partisans; made his wisdom subservient to opulent folly or selfishness;
deprived his country of all the benefit that it might have derived from his talents; and, finally,
sent him to the grave without a single sigh from a people, a great part of whom would, in his
earlier years, have wept at his death as at a national calamity.

20.

21. Let your dress be as cheap as may be without shabbiness; think more about the colour of
your shirt than about the gloss or texture of your coat; be always as clean as your occupation
will, without inconvenience, permit; but never, no, not for one moment, believe, that any human
being, with sense in his skull, will love or respect you on account of your fine or costly
clothes. This mischievous, this most destructive, way of thinking has, indeed, been produced,
like almost all our other evils, by the Acts of our Septennial and Unreformed Parliament. That
body, by its Acts, has caused an enormous Debt to be created, and, in consequence, a prodigious
sum to be raised annually in taxes. It has caused, by these means, a race of loan-mongers and
stock-jobbers to arise. These carry on a species of gaming, by which some make fortunes in
a day, and others, in a day, become beggars. The unfortunate gamesters, like the purchasers
of blanks in a lottery, are never heard of; but the fortunate ones become companions for lords,
and some of them lords themselves. We have, within these few years, seen many of these gamesters
get fortunes of a quarter of a million in a few days, and then we have heard them, though notoriously
amongst the lowest and basest of human creatures, called 'honourable gentlemen'! In such a
state of things, who is to expect patient industry, laborious study, frugality and care; who,
in such a state of things, is to expect these to be employed in pursuit of that competence
which it is the laudable wish of all men to secure? Not long ago a man, who had served his
time to a tradesman in London, became, instead of pursuing his trade, a stock-jobber, or gambler;
and, in about two years, drove his coach-and-four, had his town house and country house, and
visited, and was visited by, peers of the highest rank! A fellow-apprentice of this lucky gambler,
though a tradesman in excellent business, seeing no earthly reason why he should not have his
coach-and-four also, turned his stock in trade into a stake for the 'Change; but, alas! at
the end of a few months, instead of being in a coach-and-four, he was in the Gazette!

22. This is one instance out of hundreds of thousands; not, indeed, exactly of the same description,
but all arising from the same copious source. The words speculate and speculation have been
substituted for gamble and gambling. The hatefulness of the pursuit is thus taken away; and,
while taxes to the amount of more than double the whole of the rental of the kingdom; while
these cause such crowds of idlers, every one of whom calls himself a gentleman, and avoids
the appearance of working for his bread; while this is the case, who is to wonder, that a great
part of the youth of the country, knowing themselves to be as good, as learned, and as well-bred
as these gentlemen; who is to wonder, that they think, that they also ought to be considered
as gentlemen? Then, the late war (also the work of the Septennial Parliament) has left us,
amongst its many legacies, such swarms of titled men and women; such swarms of 'Sirs' and their
'Ladies'; men and women who, only the other day, were the fellow-apprentices, fellow-tradesmen's
or farmers' sons and daughters, or indeed, the fellow-servants, of those who are now in these
several states of life; the late Septennial Parliament war has left us such swarms of these,
that it is no wonder that the heads of young people are turned, and that they are ashamed of
that state of life to act their part well in which ought to be their delight.

23. But, though the cause of the evil is in Acts of the Septennial Parliament; though this
universal desire in people to be thought to be above their station; though this arises from
such acts; and, though it is no wonder that young men are thus turned from patient study and
labour; though these things be undoubted, they form no reason why I should not warn you against
becoming a victim to this national scourge. For, in spite of every art made use of to avoid
labour, the taxes will, after all, maintain only so many idlers. And what are the consequences?
Stupid pride is one of the symptoms of madness. Of the two madmen mentioned in Don Quixote,
one thought himself NEPTUNE, and the other JUPITER. Shakspeare agrees with CERVANTES; for,
Mad Tom, in King Lear, being asked who he is, answers, 'I am a tailor run mad with pride.'
How many have we heard of, who claimed relationship with noblemen and kings; while of not a
few each has thought himself the Son of God! To the public journals, and to the observations
of every one, nay, to the 'county-lunatic asylums' (things never heard of in England till now),
I appeal for the fact of the vast and hideous increase of madness in this country; and, within
these very few years, how many scores of young men, who, if their minds had been unperverted
by the gambling principles of the day, had a probably long and happy life before them; who
had talent, personal endowments, love of parents, love of friends, admiration of large circles;
who had, in short, everything to make life desirable, and who, from mortified pride, founded
on false pretensions, have put an end to their own existence!

24. As to DRUNKENNESS and GLUTTONY, generally so called, these are vices so nasty and beastly
that I deem any one capable of indulging in them to be wholly unworthy of my advice; and, if
any youth unhappily initiated in these odious and debasing vices should happen to read what
I am now writing, I refer him to the command of God, conveyed to the Israelites by Moses, in
Deuteronomy, chap. xxi.

25. I have been a great observer, and I can truly say, that I have never known a man, 'fond
of good eating and drinking,' as it is called; that I have never known such a man (and hundreds
I have known) who was worthy of respect.

26. Such indulgences are, in the first place, very expensive. The materials are costly, and
the preparations still more so. What a monstrous thing, that, in order to satisfy the appetite
of a man, there must be a person or two at work every day! And, then, the loss of time: the
time spent in pleasing the palate: it is truly horrible to behold people who ought to be at
work, sitting, at the three meals, not less than three of the about fourteen hours that they
are out of their beds! A youth, habituated to this sort of indulgence, cannot be valuable to
any employer. Such a youth cannot be deprived of his table-enjoyments on any account: his eating
and drinking form the momentous concern of his life: if business interfere with that, the business
must give way. A young man, some years ago, offered himself to me, on a particular occasion,
as an amanuensis, for which he appeared to be perfectly qualified. Such a person cannot be
sent from home, except at certain times; he must be near the kitchen at three fixed hours of
the day; if he be absent more than four or five hours, he is ill-treated. In short, a youth
thus pampered is worth nothing as a person to be employed in business.

27. And, as to friends and acquaintances; they will say nothing to you; they will offer you
indulgences under their roofs; but the more ready you are to accept of their offers, and, in
fact, the better taste you discover, the less they will like you, and the sooner they will
find means of shaking you off; for, besides the cost which you occasion them, people do not
like to have critics sitting in judgment on their bottles and dishes.

28. Wine measurably taken, and in season, bringeth gladness and cheerfulness of mind; but drinking
with excess maketh bitterness of mind, brawlings and scoldings.' How true are these words!
How well worthy of a constant place in our memories! Yet, what pains have been taken to apologise
for a life contrary to these precepts!

29. In the passage which I have just quoted from chap. xxxi. of ECCLESIASTICUS, it is said,
that 'wine, measurably taken, and in season,' is a proper thing. This, and other such passages
of the Old Testament, have given a handle to drunkards, and to extravagant people, to insist,
that God intended that wine should be commonly drunk. No doubt of that. But, then, he could
intend this only in countries in which he had given wine, and to which he had given no cheaper
drink except water. If it be said, as it truly may, that, by the means of the sea and the winds,
he has given wine to all countries, I answer that this gift is of no use to us now, because
our government steps in between the sea and the winds and us. Formerly, indeed, the case was
different; and, here I am about to give you, incidentally, a piece of historical knowledge,
which you will not have acquired from HUME, GOLDSMITH, or any other of the romancers called
historians. Before that unfortunate event, the Protestant Reformation, as it is called, took
place, the price of RED WINE, in England, was fourpence a gallon, Winchester measure; and of
WHITE WINE, sixpence a gallon. At the same time the pay of a labouring man per day, as fixed
by law, was fourpence. Now, when a labouring man could earn four quarts of good wine in a day,
it was, doubtless, allowable, even in England, for people in the middle rank of life to drink
wine rather commonly; and, therefore, in those happy days of England, these passages of Scripture
were applicable enough. But, now, when we have got a Protestant government, which by the taxes
which it makes people pay to it, causes the eighth part of a gallon of wine to cost more than
the pay of a labouring man for a day; now, this passage of Scripture is not applicable to us.
There is no 'season' in which we can take wine without ruining ourselves, however 'measurably'
we may take it; and I beg you to regard, as perverters of Scripture and as seducers of youth,
all those who cite passages like that above cited, in justification of, or as an apology for,
the practice of wine-drinking in England.

30. I beseech you to look again and again at, and to remember every word of, the passage which
I have just quoted from the book of ECCLESIASTICUS. How completely have been, and are, its
words verified by my experience and in my person! How little of eating and drinking is sufficient
for me! How wholesome is my sleep! How early do I rise; and how 'well at ease' am I 'with myself!'
I should not have deserved such blessings, if I had withheld from my neighbours a knowledge
of the means by which they were obtained; and, therefore, this knowledge I have been in the
constant habit of communicating. When one gives a dinner to a company, it is an extraordinary
affair, and is intended, by sensible men, for purposes other than those of eating and drinking.
But, in general, in the every-day life, despicable are those who suffer any part of their happiness
to depend upon what they have to eat or to drink, provided they have a sufficiency of wholesome
food; despicable is the man, and worse than despicable the youth, that would make any sacrifice,
however small, whether of money or of time, or of anything else, in order to secure a dinner
different from that which he would have had without such sacrifice. Who, what man, ever performed
a greater quantity of labour than I have performed? What man ever did so much? Now, in a great
measure, I owe my capability to perform this labour to my disregard of dainties. But the great
security of all is, to eat little, and to drink nothing that intoxicates. He that eats till
he is full is little better than a beast; and he that drinks till he is drunk is quite a beast.

31. Before I dismiss this affair of eating and drinking, let me beseech you to resolve to free
yourselves from the slavery of the tea and coffee and other slop-kettle, if, unhappily, you
have been bred up in such slavery. Experience has taught me, that those slops are injurious
to health: until I left them off (having taken to them at the age of 26), even my habits of
sobriety, moderate eating, early rising; even these were not, until I left off the slops, sufficient
to give me that complete health which I have since had. I pretend not to be a 'doctor;' but,
I assert, that to pour regularly, every day, a pint or two of warm liquid matter down the throat,
whether under the name of tea, coffee, soup, grog, or whatever else, is greatly injurious to
health. However, at present, what I have to represent to you is the great deduction, which
the use of these slops makes, from your power of being useful, and also from your power to
husband your income, whatever it may be, and from whatever source arising. I am to suppose
you to be desirous to become a clever and a useful man; a man to be, if not admired and revered,
at least to be respected. In order to merit respect beyond that which is due to very common
men, you must do something more than very common men; and I am now going to show you how your
course must be impeded by the use of the slops.

32. If the women exclaim, 'Nonsense! come and take a cup,' take it for that once; but hear
what I have to say. In answer to my representation regarding the waste of time which is occasioned
by the slops, it has been said, that let what may be the nature of the food, there must be
time for taking it. Not so much time, however, to eat a bit of meat or cheese or butter with
a bit of bread. But, these may be eaten in a shop, a warehouse, a factory, far from any fire,
and even in a carriage on the road. The slops absolutely demand fire and a congregation; so
that, be your business what it may; be you shopkeeper, farmer, drover, sportsman, traveller,
to the slop-board you must come; you must wait for its assembling, or start from home without
your breakfast; and, being used to the warm liquid, you feel out of order for the want of it.
If the slops were in fashion amongst ploughmen and carters, we must all be starved; for the
food could never be raised. The mechanics are half-ruined by them. Many of them are become
poor, enervated creatures; and chiefly from this cause. But is the positive cost nothing? At
boarding-schools an additional price is given on account of the tea slops. Suppose you to be
a clerk, in hired lodgings, and going to your counting-house at nine o'clock. You get your
dinner, perhaps, near to the scene of your work; but how are you to have the breakfast slops
without a servant? Perhaps you find a lodging just to suit you, but the house is occupied by
people who keep no servants, and you want a servant to light a fire and get the slop ready.
You could get this lodging for several shillings a week less than another at the next door;
but there they keep a servant, who will 'get you your breakfast,' and preserve you, benevolent
creature as she is, from the cruel necessity of going to the cupboard and cutting off a slice
of meat or cheese and a bit of bread. She will, most likely, toast your bread for you too,
and melt your butter; and then muffle you up, in winter, and send you out almost swaddled.
Really such a thing can hardly be expected ever to become a man. You are weak; you have delicate
health; you are 'bilious!' Why, my good fellow, it is these very slops that make you weak and
bilious; And, indeed, the poverty, the real poverty, that they and their concomitants bring
on you, greatly assists, in more ways than one, in producing your 'delicate health.'

33. So much for indulgences in eating, drinking, and dress. Next, as to amusements. It is recorded
of the famous ALFRED, that he devoted eight hours of the twenty-four to labour, eight to rest,
and eight to recreation. He was, however, a king, and could be thinking during the eight hours
of recreation. It is certain, that there ought to be hours of recreation, and I do not know
that eight are too many; but, then observe, those hours ought to be well-chosen, and the sort
of recreation ought to be attended to. It ought to be such as is at once innocent in itself
and in its tendency, and not injurious to health. The sports of the field are the best of all,
because they are conducive to health, because they are enjoyed by day-light, and because they
demand early rising. The nearer that other amusements approach to these, the better they are.
A town-life, which many persons are compelled, by the nature of their calling, to lead, precludes
the possibility of pursuing amusements of this description to any very considerable extent;
and young men in towns are, generally speaking, compelled to choose between books on the one
hand, or gaming and the play-house on the other. Dancing is at once rational and healthful:
it gives animal spirits: it is the natural amusement of young people, and such it has been
from the days of Moses: it is enjoyed in numerous companies: it makes the parties to be pleased
with themselves and with all about them; it has no tendency to excite base and malignant feelings;
and none but the most grovelling and hateful tyranny, or the most stupid and despicable fanaticism,
ever raised its voice against it. The bad modern habits of England have created one inconvenience
attending the enjoyment of this healthy and innocent pastime, namely, late hours, which are
at once injurious to health and destructive of order and of industry. In other countries people
dance by day-light. Here they do not; and, therefore, you must, in this respect, submit to
the custom, though not without robbing the dancing night of as many hours as you can.

34. The gambler, as pourtrayed by REGNARD, in a comedy the translation of which into English
resembles the original much about as nearly as Sir JAMES GRAHAM'S plagiarisms resembled the
Registers on which they had been committed, is a fine instance of the contempt and scorn to
which gaming at last reduces its votaries; but, if any young man be engaged in this fatal career,
and be not yet wholly lost, let him behold HOGARTH'S gambler just when he has made his last
throw and when disappointment has bereft him of his senses. If after this sight he remain obdurate,
he is doomed to be a disgrace to his name.

35. The Theatre may be a source not only of amusement but also of instruction; but, as things
now are in this country, what, that is not bad, is to be learned in this school? In the first
place not a word is allowed to be uttered on the stage, which has not been previously approved
of by the Lord Chamberlain; that is to say, by a person appointed by the Ministry, who, at
his pleasure, allows, or disallows, of any piece, or any words in a piece, submitted to his
inspection. In short, those who go to play-houses pay their money to hear uttered such words
as the government approve of, and no others. It is now just twenty-six years since I first
well understood how this matter was managed; and, from that moment to this, I have never been
in an English play-house. Besides this, the meanness, the abject servility, of the players,
and the slavish conduct of the audience, are sufficient to corrupt and debase the heart of
any young man who is a frequent beholder of them. Homage is here paid to every one clothed
with power, be he who or what he may; real virtue and public-spirit are subjects of ridicule;
and mock-sentiment and mock-liberality and mock-loyalty are applauded to the skies.

36. 'Show me a man's companions' says the proverb, 'and I will tell you what the man is;' and
this is, and must be true; because all men seek the society of those who think and act somewhat
like themselves: sober men will not associate with drunkards, frugal men will not like spendthrifts,
and the orderly and decent shun the noisy, the disorderly, and the debauched. It is for the
very vulgar to herd together as singers, ringers, and smokers; but, there is a class rather
higher still more blamable; I mean the tavern-haunters, the gay companions, who herd together
to do little but talk, and who are so fond of talk that they go from home to get at it. The
conversation amongst such persons has nothing of instruction in it, and is generally of a vicious
tendency. Young people naturally and commendably seek the society of those of their own age;
but, be careful in choosing your companions; and lay this down as a rule never to be departed
from, that no youth, nor man, ought to be called your friend, who is addicted to indecent talk,
or who is fond of the society of prostitutes. Either of these argues a depraved taste, and
even a depraved heart; an absence of all principle and of all trust-worthiness; and, I have
remarked it all my life long, that young men, addicted to these vices, never succeed in the
end, whatever advantages they may have, whether in fortune or in talent. Fond mothers and fathers
are but too apt to be over-lenient to such offenders; and, as long as youth lasts and fortune
smiles, the punishment is deferred; but, it comes at last; it is sure to come; and the gay
and dissolute youth is a dejected and miserable man. After the early part of a life spent in
illicit indulgences, a man is unworthy of being the husband of a virtuous woman; and, if he
have anything like justice in him, how is he to reprove, in his children, vices in which he
himself so long indulged? These vices of youth are varnished over by the saying, that there
must be time for 'sowing the wild oats,' and that 'wildest colts make the best horses.' These
figurative oats are, however, generally like the literal ones; they are never to be eradicated
from the soil; and as to the colts, wildness in them is an indication of high animal spirit,
having nothing at all to do with the mind, which is invariably debilitated and debased by profligate
indulgences. Yet this miserable piece of sophistry, the offspring of parental weakness, is
in constant use, to the incalculable injury of the rising generation. What so amiable as a
steady, trust-worthy boy? He is of real use at an early age: he can be trusted far out of the
sight of parent or employer, while the 'pickle,' as the poor fond parents call the profligate,
is a great deal worse than useless, because there must be some one to see that he does no harm.
If you have to choose, choose companions of your own rank in life as nearly as may be; but,
at any rate, none to whom you acknowledge inferiority; for, slavery is too soon learned; and,
if the mind be bowed down in the youth, it will seldom rise up in the man. In the schools of
those best of teachers the JESUITS, there is perfect equality as to rank in life: the boy,
who enters there, leaves all family pride behind him: intrinsic merit alone is the standard
of preference; and the masters are so scrupulous upon this head, that they do not suffer one
scholar, of whatever rank, to have more money to spend than the poorest. These wise men know
well the mischiefs that must arise from inequality of pecuniary means amongst their scholars:
they know how injurious it would be to learning, if deference were, by the learned, paid to
the dunce; and they, therefore, take the most effectual means to prevent it. Hence, amongst
other causes, it is, that their scholars have, ever since the existence of their Order, been
the most celebrated for learning of any men in the world.

37. In your manners be neither boorish nor blunt, but even these are preferable to simpering
and crawling. I wish every English youth could see those of the United States of America; always
civil, never servile. Be obedient, where obedience is due; for, it is no act of meanness, and
no indication of want of spirit, to yield implicit and ready obedience to those who have a
right to demand it at your hands. In this respect England has been, and I hope always will
be, an example to the whole world. To this habit of willing and prompt obedience in apprentices,
in servants, in all inferiors in station, she owes, in a great measure, her multitudes of matchless
merchants, tradesmen, and workmen of every description, and also the achievements of her armies
and navies. It is no disgrace, but the contrary, to obey, cheerfully, lawful and just commands.
None are so saucy and disobedient as slaves; and, when you come to read history, you will find
that in proportion as nations have been free has been their reverence for the laws. But, there
is a wide difference between lawful and cheerful obedience and that servility which represents
people as laying petitions 'at the king's feet,' which makes us imagine that we behold the
supplicants actually crawling upon their bellies. There is something so abject in this expression;
there is such horrible self-abasement in it, that I do hope that every youth, who shall read
this, will hold in detestation the reptiles who make use of it. In all other countries, the
lowest individual can put a petition into the hands of the chief magistrate, be he king or
emperor: let us hope, that the time will yet come when Englishmen will be able to do the same.
In the meanwhile I beg you to despise these worse than pagan parasites.

38. Hitherto I have addressed you chiefly relative to the things to be avoided: let me now
turn to the things which you ought to do. And, first of all, the husbanding of your time. The
respect that you will receive, the real and sincere respect, will depend entirely on what you
are able to do. If you be rich, you may purchase what is called respect; but it is not worth
having. To obtain respect worth possessing, you must, as I observed before, do more than the
common run of men in your state of life; and, to be enabled to do this, you must manage well
your time: and, to manage it well, you must have as much of the day-light and as little of
the candle-light as is consistent with the due discharge of your duties. When people get into
the habit of sitting up merely for the purpose of talking, it is no easy matter to break themselves
of it: and if they do not go to bed early, they cannot rise early. Young people require more
sleep than those that are grown up: there must be the number of hours, and that number cannot
well be, on an average, less than eight: and, if it be more in winter time, it is all the better;
for, an hour in bed is better than an hour spent over fire and candle in an idle gossip. People
never should sit talking till they do not know what to talk about. It is said by the country-people,
that one hour's sleep before midnight is worth more than two are worth after midnight, and
this I believe to be a fact; but it is useless to go to bed early and even to rise early, if
the time be not well employed after rising. In general, half the morning is loitered away,
the party being in a sort of half-dressed half-naked state; out of bed, indeed, but still in
a sort of bedding. Those who first invented morning-gowns and slippers could have very little
else to do. These things are very suitable to those who have had fortunes gained for them by
others; very suitable to those who have nothing to do, and who merely live for the purpose
of assisting to consume the produce of the earth; but he who has his bread to earn, or who
means to be worthy of respect on account of his labours, has no business with morning gown
and slippers. In short, be your business or calling what it may, dress at once for the day;
and learn to do it as quickly as possible. A looking-glass is a piece of furniture a great
deal worse than useless. Looking at the face will not alter its shape or its colour; and, perhaps,
of all wasted time; none is so foolishly wasted as that which is employed in surveying one's
own face. I once heard SIR JOHN SINCLAIR ask Mr. COCHRANE JOHNSTONE, whether he meaned to have
a son of his (then a little boy) taught Latin. 'Toujours prêt' was the motto of a famous French
general; and pray let it be yours: be 'always ready;' and never, during your whole life, have
to say, 'I cannot go till I be shaved and dressed.' Do the whole at once for the day, whatever
may be your state of life; and then you have a day unbroken by those indispensable performances.
Begin thus, in the days of your youth, and, having felt the superiority which this practice
will give you over those in all other respects your equals, the practice will stick by you
to the end of your life. Till you be shaved and dressed for the day, you cannot set steadily
about any business; you know that you must presently quit your labour to return to the dressing
affair; you, therefore, put it off until that be over; the interval, the precious interval,
is spent in lounging about; and, by the time that you are ready for business, the best part
of the day is gone.

39.

40. Money is said to be power, which is, in some cases, true; and the same may be said of knowledge;
but superior sobriety, industry and activity, are a still more certain source of power; for
without these, knowledge is of little use; and, as to the power which money gives, it is that
of brute force, it is the power of the bludgeon and the bayonet, and of the bribed press, tongue
and pen. Superior sobriety, industry, activity, though accompanied with but a moderate portion
of knowledge, command respect, because they have great and visible influence. The drunken,
the lazy, and the inert, stand abashed before the sober and the active. Besides, all those
whose interests are at stake prefer, of necessity, those whose exertions produce the greatest
and most immediate and visible effect. Self-interest is no respecter of persons: it asks, not
who knows best what ought to be done, but who is most likely to do it: we may, and often do,
admire the talents of lazy, and even dissipated men, but we do not trust them with the care
of our interests. If, therefore, you would have respect and influence in the circle in which
you move, be more sober, more industrious, more active than the general run of those amongst
whom you live.

41. As to EDUCATION, this word is now applied exclusively to things which are taught in schools;
but education means rearing up, and the French speak of the education of pigs and sheep. In
a very famous French book on rural affairs, there is a Chapter entitled 'Education du Cochon,'
that is, education of the hog. The word has the same meaning in both languages; for both take
it from the Latin. Neither is the word LEARNING properly confined to things taught in schools,
or by books; for, learning means knowledge; and, but a comparatively small part of useful knowledge
comes from books. Men are not to be called ignorant merely because they cannot make upon paper
certain marks with a pen, or because they do not know the meaning of such marks when made by
others. A ploughman may be very learned in his line, though he does not know what the letters
p. l. o. u. g. h mean when he sees them combined upon paper. The first thing to be required
of a man is, that he understand well his own calling, or profession; and, be you in what state
of life you may, to acquire this knowledge ought to be your first and greatest care. A man
who has had a new-built house tumble down will derive little more consolation from being told
that the architect is a great astronomer, than this distressed nation now derives from being
assured that its distresses arise from the measures of a long list of the greatest orators
and greatest heroes that the world ever beheld.

42. Nevertheless, book-learning is by no means to be despised; and it is a thing which may
be laudably sought after by persons in all states of life. In those pursuits which are called
professions, it is necessary, and also in certain trades; and, in persons in the middle ranks
of life, a total absence of such learning is somewhat disgraceful. There is, however, one danger
to be carefully guarded against; namely, the opinion that your genius, or your literary acquirements,
are such as to warrant you in disregarding the calling in which you are, and by which you gain
your bread. Parents must have an uncommon portion of solid sense to counterbalance their natural
affection sufficiently to make them competent judges in such a case. Friends are partial; and
those who are not, you deem enemies. Stick, therefore, to the shop; rely upon your mercantile
or mechanical or professional calling; try your strength in literature, if you like; but, rely
on the shop. If BLOOMFIELD, who wrote a poem called the FARMER'S BOY, had placed no reliance
on the faithless muses, his unfortunate and much-to-be-pitied family would, in all probability,
have not been in a state to solicit relief from charity. I remember that this loyal shoemaker
was flattered to the skies, and (ominous sign, if he had understood it) feasted at the tables
of some of the great. Have, I beseech you, no hope of this sort; and, if you find it creeping
towards your heart, drive it instantly away as the mortal foe of your independence and your peace.

43. With this precaution, however, book-learning is not only proper, but highly commendable;
and portions of it are absolutely necessary in every case of trade or profession. One of these
portions is distinct reading, plain and neat writing, and arithmetic. The two former are mere
child's work; the latter not quite so easily acquired, but equally indispensable, and of it
you ought to have a thorough knowledge before you attempt to study even the grammar of your
own language. Arithmetic is soon learned; it is not a thing that requires much natural talent;
it is not a thing that loads the memory or puzzles the mind; and it is a thing of every-day
utility. Therefore, this is, to a certain extent, an absolute necessary; an indispensable acquisition.
Every man is not to be a surveyor or an actuary; and, therefore, you may stop far short of
the knowledge, of this sort, which is demanded by these professions; but, as far as common
accounts and calculations go, you ought to be perfect; and this you may make yourself, without
any assistance from a master, by bestowing upon this science, during six months, only one half
of the time that is, by persons of your age, usually wasted over the tea-slops, or other kettle-slops,
alone! If you become fond of this science, there may be a little danger of wasting your time
on it. When, therefore, you have got as much of it as your business or profession can possibly
render necessary, turn the time to some other purpose. As to books, on this subject, they are
in everybody's hand; but, there is one book on the subject of calculations, which I must point
out to you; 'THE CAMBIST,' by Dr. KELLY. This is a bad title, because, to men in general, it
gives no idea of what the book treats of. It is a book which shows the value of the several
pieces of money of one country when stated in the money of another country. For instance, it
tells us what a Spanish Dollar, a Dutch Dollar, a French Frank, and so on, is worth in English
money. It does the same with regard to weights and measures: and it extends its information
to all the countries in the world. It is a work of rare merit; and every youth, be his state
of life what it may, if it permit him to pursue book-learning of any sort, and particularly
if he be destined, or at all likely to meddle with commercial matters, ought, as soon as convenient,
to possess this valuable and instructive book.

44. The next thing is the GRAMMAR of your own language. Without understanding this, you can
never hope to become fit for anything beyond mere trade or agriculture. It is true, that we
do (God knows!) but too often see men have great wealth, high titles, and boundless power heaped
upon them, who can hardly write ten lines together correctly; but, remember, it is not merit
that has been the cause of their advancement; the cause has been, in almost every such case,
the subserviency of the party to the will of some government, and the baseness of some nation
who have quietly submitted to be governed by brazen fools. Do not you imagine, that you will
have luck of this sort: do not you hope to be rewarded and honoured for that ignorance which
shall prove a scourge to your country, and which will earn you the curses of the children yet
unborn. Rely you upon your merit, and upon nothing else. Without a knowledge of grammar, it
is impossible for you to write correctly, and it is by mere accident if you speak correctly;
and, pray bear in mind, that all well-informed persons judge of a man's mind (until they have
other means of judging) by his writing or speaking. The labour necessary to acquire this knowledge
is, indeed, not trifling: grammar is not, like arithmetic, a science consisting of several
distinct departments, some of which may be dispensed with: it is a whole, and the whole must
be learned, or no part is learned. The subject is abstruse: it demands much reflection and
much patience: but, when once the task is performed, it is performed for life, and in every
day of that life it will be found to be, in a greater or less degree, a source of pleasure
or of profit or of both together. And, what is the labour? It consists of no bodily exertion;
it exposes the student to no cold, no hunger, no suffering of any sort. The study need subtract
from the hours of no business, nor, indeed, from the hours of necessary exercise: the hours
usually spent on the tea and coffee slops and in the mere gossip which accompany them; those
wasted hours of only one year, employed in the study of English grammar, would make you a correct
speaker and writer for the rest of your life. You want no school, no room to study in, no expenses,
and no troublesome circumstances of any sort. What youth, who shall read this, will not be
ashamed to say, that he is not able to find time and opportunity for this most essential of
all the branches of book-learning?

45. I press this matter with such earnestness, because a knowledge of grammar is the foundation
of all literature; and because without this knowledge opportunities for writing and speaking
are only occasions for men to display their unfitness to write and speak. How many false pretenders
to erudition, have I exposed to shame merely by my knowledge of grammar! How many of the insolent
and ignorant great and powerful have I pulled down and made little and despicable! And, with
what ease have I conveyed upon numerous important subjects, information and instruction to
millions now alive, and provided a store of both for millions yet unborn! As to the course
to be pursued in this great undertaking, it is, first, to read the grammar from the first word
to the last, very attentively, several times over; then, to copy the whole of it very correctly
and neatly; and then to study the Chapters one by one. And what do this reading and writing
require as to time? Both together not more than the tea-slops and their gossips for three months!
There are about three hundred pages in my English Grammar. Four of those little pages in a
day, which is a mere trifle of work, do the thing in three months. Two hours a day are quite
sufficient for the purpose; and these may, in any town that I have ever known, or in any village,
be taken from that part of the morning during which the main part of the people are in bed.
I do not like the evening-candle-light work: it wears the eyes much more than the same sort
of light in the morning, because then the faculties are in vigour and wholly unexhausted. But
for this purpose there is sufficient of that day-light which is usually wasted; usually gossipped
or lounged away; or spent in some other manner productive of no pleasure, and generally producing
pain in the end. It is very becoming in all persons, and particularly in the young, to be civil,
and even polite: but it becomes neither young nor old to have an everlasting simper on their
faces, and their bodies sawing in an everlasting bow: and, how many youths have I seen who,
if they had spent, in the learning of grammar, a tenth part of the time that they have consumed
in earning merited contempt for their affected gentility, would have laid the foundation of
sincere respect towards them for the whole of their lives!

46. Perseverance is a prime quality in every pursuit, and particularly in this. Yours is, too,
the time of life to acquire this inestimable habit. Men fail much oftener from want of perseverance
than from want of talent and of good disposition: as the race was not to the hare but to the
tortoise, so the meed of success in study is to him who is not in haste, but to him who proceeds
with a steady and even step. It is not to a want of taste or of desire or of disposition to
learn that we have to ascribe the rareness of good scholars, so much as to the want of patient
perseverance. Grammar is a branch of knowledge; like all other things of high value, it is
of difficult acquirement: the study is dry; the subject is intricate; it engages not the passions;
and, if the great end be not kept constantly in view; if you lose, for a moment, sight of the
ample reward, indifference begins, that is followed by weariness, and disgust and despair close
the book. To guard against this result be not in haste; keep steadily on; and, when you find
weariness approaching, rouse yourself, and remember, that if you give up, all that you have
done has been done in vain. This is a matter of great moment; for out of every ten, who undertake
this task, there are, perhaps, nine who abandon it in despair; and this, too, merely for the
want of resolution to overcome the first approaches of weariness. The most effectual means
of security against this mortifying result is to lay down a rule to write or to read a certain
fixed quantity every day, Sunday excepted. Our minds are not always in the same state; they
have not, at all times, the same elasticity; to-day we are full of hope on the very same grounds
which, to-morrow, afford us no hope at all: every human being is liable to those flows and
ebbs of the mind; but, if reason interfere, and bid you overcome the fits of lassitude, and
almost mechanically to go on without the stimulus of hope, the buoyant fit speedily returns;
you congratulate yourself that you did not yield to the temptation to abandon your pursuit,
and you proceed with more vigour than ever. Five or six triumphs over temptation to indolence
or despair lay the foundation of certain success; and, what is of still more importance, fix
in you the habit of perseverance.

47. If I have bestowed a large portion of my space on this topic, it has been because I know,
from experience as well as from observation, that it is of more importance than all the other
branches of book-learning put together. It gives you, when you possess it thoroughly, a real
and practical superiority over the far greater part of men. How often did I experience this
even long before I became what is called an author! The Adjutant, under whom it was my duty
to act when I was a Serjeant Major, was, as almost all military officers are, or at least were,
a very illiterate man, perceiving that every sentence of mine was in the same form and manner
as sentences in print, became shy of letting me see pieces of his writing. The writing of orders,
and other things, therefore, fell to me; and thus, though no nominal addition was made to my
pay, and no nominal addition to my authority, I acquired the latter as effectually as if a
law had been passed to confer it upon me. In short, I owe to the possession of this branch
of knowledge everything that has enabled me to do so many things that very few other men have
done, and that now gives me a degree of influence, such as is possessed by few others, in the
most weighty concerns of the country. The possession of this branch of knowledge raises you
in your own esteem, gives just confidence in yourself, and prevents you from being the willing
slave of the rich and the titled part of the community. It enables you to discover that riches
and titles do not confer merit; you think comparatively little of them; and, as far as relates
to you, at any rate, their insolence is innoxious.

48. Hoping that I have said enough to induce you to set resolutely about the study of grammar,
I might here leave the subject of learning; arithmetic and grammar, both well learned, being
as much as I could wish in a mere youth. But these need not occupy the whole of your spare
time; and, there are other branches of learning which ought immediately to follow. If your
own calling or profession require book-study, books treating of that are to be preferred to
all others; for, the first thing, the first object in life, is to secure the honest means of
obtaining sustenance, raiment, and a state of being suitable to your rank, be that rank what
it may: excellence in your own calling is, therefore, the first thing to be aimed at. After
this may come general knowledge, and of this, the first is a thorough knowledge of your own
country; for, how ridiculous is it to see an English youth engaged in reading about the customs
of the Chinese or of the Hindoos, while he is content to be totally ignorant of those of Kent
or of Cornwall! Well employed he must be in ascertaining how Greece was divided and how the
Romans parcelled out their territory, while he knows not, and apparently does not want to know,
how England came to be divided into counties, hundreds, parishes and tithings.

49. GEOGRAPHY naturally follows Grammar; and you should begin with that of this kingdom, which
you ought to understand well, perfectly well, before you venture to look abroad. A rather slight
knowledge of the divisions and customs of other countries is, generally speaking, sufficient;
but, not to know these full well, as far as relates to our own country, is, in one who pretends
to be a gentleman or a scholar, somewhat disgraceful. Yet how many men are there, and those
called gentlemen too, who seem to think that counties and parishes, and churches and parsons,
and tithes and glebes, and manors and courts-leet, and paupers and poor-houses, all grew up
in England, or dropped down upon it, immediately after Noah's flood! Surely, it is necessary
for every man, having any pretensions to scholarship, to know how these things came; and, the
sooner this knowledge is acquired the better; for, until it be acquired, you read the history
of your country in vain. Indeed, to communicate this knowledge is one main part of the business
of history; but it is a part which no historian, commonly so called, has, that I know of, ever
yet performed, except, in part, myself, in the History of the PROTESTANT REFORMATION. I had
read HUME'S History of England, and the Continuation by SMOLLETT; but, in 1802, when I wanted
to write on the subject of the non-residence of the clergy, I found, to my great mortification,
that I knew nothing of the foundation of the office and the claims of the parsons, and that
I could not even guess at the origin of parishes. This gave a new turn to my inquiries; and
I soon found the romancers, called historians, had given me no information that I could rely
on, and, besides, had done, apparently, all they could to keep me in the dark.

50. When you come to HISTORY, begin also with that of your own country; and here it is my bounden
duty to put you well on your guard; for in this respect we are peculiarly unfortunate, and
for the following reasons, to which I beg you to attend. Three hundred years ago, the religion
of England had been, during nine hundred years, the Catholic religion: the Catholic clergy
possessed about a third part of all the lands and houses, which they held in trust for their
own support, for the building and repairing of churches, and for the relief of the poor, the
widow, the orphan, and the stranger; but, at the time just mentioned, the king and the aristocracy
changed the religion to Protestant, took the estates of the church and the poor to themselves
as their own property, and taxed the people at large for the building and repairing of churches
and for the relief of the poor. This great and terrible change, effected partly by force against
the people and partly by the most artful means of deception, gave rise to a series of efforts,
which has been continued from that day to this, to cause us all to believe, that that change
was for the better, that it was for our good; and that, before that time, our forefathers were
a set of the most miserable slaves that the sun ever warmed with his beams. It happened, too,
that the art of printing was not discovered, or, at least, it was very little understood, until
about the time when this change took place; so that the books relating to former times were
confined to manuscript; and, besides, even these manuscript libraries were destroyed with great
care by those who had made the change and had grasped the property of the poor and the church.
Our 'Historians,' as they are called, have written under fear of the powerful, or have been
bribed by them; and, generally speaking, both at the same time; and, accordingly, their works
are, as far as they relate to former times, masses of lies unmatched by any others that the
world has ever seen.

51. The great object of these lies always has been to make the main body of the people believe,
that the nation is now more happy, more populous, more powerful, than it was before it was
Protestant, and thereby to induce us to conclude, that it was a good thing for us that the
aristocracy should take to themselves the property of the poor and the church, and make the
people at large pay taxes for the support of both. This has been, and still is, the great object
of all those heaps of lies; and those lies are continually spread about amongst us in all forms
of publication, from heavy folios down to halfpenny tracts. In refutation of those lies we
have only very few and rare ancient books to refer to, and their information is incidental,
seeing that their authors never dreamed of the possibility of the lying generations which were
to come. We have the ancient acts of parliament, the common-law, the customs, the canons of
the church, and the churches themselves; but these demand analyses and argument, and they demand
also a really free press, and unprejudiced and patient readers. Never in this world, before,
had truth to struggle with so many and such great disadvantages!

52. To refute lies is not, at present, my business; but it is my business to give you, in as
small a compass as possible, one striking proof that they are lies; and thereby to put you
well upon your guard for the whole of the rest of your life. The opinion sedulously inculcated
by these 'historians' is this; that, before the Protestant times came, England was, comparatively,
an insignificant country, having few people in it, and those few wretchedly poor and miserable.
Now, take the following undeniable facts. All the parishes in England are now (except where
they have been united, and two, three, or four, have been made into one) in point of size,
what they were a thousand years ago. The county of Norfolk is the best cultivated of any one
in England. This county has now 731 parishes; and the number was formerly greater. Of these
parishes 22 have now no churches at all; 74 contain less than 100 souls each: and 268 have
no parsonage-houses. Now, observe, every parish had, in old times, a church and a parsonage-house.
The county contains 2,092 square miles; that is to say, something less than 3 square miles
to each parish, and that is 1,920 statute acres of land; and the size of each parish is, on
an average, that of a piece of ground about one mile and a half each way; so that the churches
are, even now, on an average, only about a mile and a half from each other. Now, the questions
for you to put to yourself are these: Were churches formerly built and kept up without being
wanted, and especially by a poor and miserable people? Did these miserable people build 74
churches out of 731, each of which 74 had not a hundred souls belonging to it? Is it a sign
of an augmented population, that 22 churches out of 731 have tumbled down and been effaced?
Was it a country thinly inhabited by miserable people that could build and keep a church in
every piece of ground a mile and a half each way, besides having, in this same county, 77 monastic
establishments and 142 free chapels? Is it a sign of augmented population, ease and plenty,
that, out of 731 parishes, 268 have suffered the parsonage houses to fall into ruins, and their
sites to become patches of nettles and of brambles? Put these questions calmly to yourself:
common sense will dictate the answers; and truth will call for an expression of your indignation
against the lying historians and the still more lying population-mongers.

LETTER II

TO A YOUNG MAN

53. In the foregoing Letter, I have given my advice to a Youth. In addressing myself to you,
I am to presume that you have entered upon your present stage of life, having acted upon the
precepts contained in that letter; and that, of course, you are a sober, abstinent, industrious
and well-informed young man. In the succeeding letters, which will be addressed to the Lover,
the Husband, the Father and the Citizen, I shall, of course, have to include my notion of your
duties as a master, and as a person employed by another. In the present letter, therefore,
I shall confine myself principally to the conduct of a young man with regard to the management
of his means, or money.

54. Be you in what line of life you may, it will be amongst your misfortunes if you have not
time properly to attend to this matter; for it very frequently happens, it has happened to
thousands upon thousands, not only to be ruined, according to the common acceptation of the
word; not only to be made poor, and to suffer from poverty, in consequence of want of attention
to pecuniary matters; but it has frequently, and even generally, happened, that a want of attention
to these matters has impeded the progress of science, and of genius itself. A man, oppressed
with pecuniary cares and dangers, must be next to a miracle, if he have his mind in a state
fit for intellectual labours; to say nothing of the temptations, arising from such distress,
to abandon good principles, to suppress useful opinions and useful facts; and, in short, to
become a disgrace to his kindred, and an evil to his country, instead of being an honour to
the former and a blessing to the latter. To be poor and independent, is very nearly an impossibility.

55. But, then, poverty is not a positive, but a relative term. BURKE observed, and very truly,
that a labourer who earned a sufficiency to maintain him as a labourer, and to maintain him
in a suitable manner; to give him a sufficiency of good food, of clothing, of lodging, and
of fuel, ought not to be called a poor man; for that, though he had little riches, though his,
compared with that of a lord, was a state of poverty, it was not a state of poverty in itself.
When, therefore, I say that poverty is the cause of a depression of spirit, of inactivity and
of servility in men of literary talent, I must say, at the same time, that the evil arises
from their own fault; from their having created for themselves imaginary wants; from their
having indulged in unnecessary enjoyments, and from their having caused that to be poverty,
which would not have been poverty, if they had been moderate in their enjoyments.

56. As it may be your lot (such has been mine) to live by your literary talent, I will here,
before I proceed to matter more applicable to persons in other states of life, observe, that
I cannot form an idea of a mortal more wretched than a man of real talent, compelled to curb
his genius, and to submit himself in the exercise of that genius, to those whom he knows to
be far inferior to himself, and whom he must despise from the bottom of his soul. The late
Mr. WILLIAM GIFFORD, who was the son of a shoemaker at ASHBURTON in Devonshire; who was put
to school and sent to the university at the expense of a generous and good clergyman of the
name of COOKSON, and who died, the other day, a sort of whipper-in of MURRAY'S QUARTERLY REVIEW;
this was a man of real genius; and, to my certain personal knowledge, he detested, from the
bottom of his soul, the whole of the paper-money and Boroughmongering system, and despised
those by whom the system was carried on. But, he had imaginary wants; he had been bred up in
company with the rich and the extravagant; expensive indulgences had been made necessary to
him by habit; and, when in the year 1798, or thereabouts, he had to choose between a bit of
bacon, a scrag of mutton, and a lodging at ten shillings a week, on the one side, and made-dishes,
wine, a fine house and a footman on the other side, he chose the latter. He became the servile
Editor of CANNING'S Anti-jacobin newspaper; and he, who had more wit and learning than all
the rest of the writers put together, became the miserable tool in circulating their attacks
upon everything that was hostile to a system which he deplored and detested. But he secured
the made-dishes, the wine, the footman and the coachman. A sinecure as 'clerk of the Foreign
Estreats,' gave him 329l. a year, a double commissionership of the lottery gave him 600l. or
700l. more; and, at a later period, his Editorship of the Quarterly Review gave him perhaps
as much more. He rolled in his carriage for several years; he fared sumptuously; he was buried
at Westminster Abbey, of which his friend and formerly his brother pamphleteer in defence of
PITT was the Dean; and never is he to be heard of more! Mr. GIFFORD would have been full as
happy; his health would have been better, his life longer, and his name would have lived for
ages, if he could have turned to the bit of bacon and scrag of mutton in 1798; for his learning
and talents were such, his reasonings so clear and conclusive, and his wit so pointed and keen,
that his writings must have been generally read, must have been of long duration! and, indeed,
must have enabled him (he being always a single man) to live in his latter days in as good
style as that which he procured by becoming a sinecurist, a pensioner and a hack, all which
he was from the moment he lent himself to the Quarterly Review. Think of the mortification
of such a man, when he was called upon to justify the power-of-imprisonment bill in 1817! But
to go into particulars would be tedious: his life was a life of luxurious misery, than which
a worse is not to be imagined.

57. So that poverty is, except where there is an actual want of food and raiment, a thing much
more imaginary than real. The shame of poverty, the shame of being thought poor, is a great
and fatal weakness, though arising, in this country, from the fashion of the times themselves.
When a good man, as in the phraseology of the city, means a rich man, we are not to wonder
that every one wishes to be thought richer than he is. When adulation is sure to follow wealth,
and when contempt would be awarded to many if they were not wealthy, who are spoken of with
deference, and even lauded to the skies, because their riches are great and notorious; when
this is the case, we are not to be surprised that men are ashamed to be thought to be poor.
This is one of the greatest of all the dangers at the outset of life: it has brought thousands
and hundreds of thousands to ruin, even to pecuniary ruin.

58. This shame of being thought poor, is not only dishonourable in itself, and fatally injurious
to men of talent; but it is ruinous even in a pecuniary point of view, and equally destructive
to farmers, traders, and even gentlemen of landed estate. Look round you, mark well what you
behold, and say if this be not the case. In how many instances have you seen most amiable and
even most industrious families brought to ruin by nothing but this! Mark it well; resolve to
set this false shame at defiance, and when you have done that, you have laid the first stone
of the surest foundation of your future tranquillity of mind. There are thousands of families,
at this very moment, who are thus struggling to keep up appearances. The farmers accommodate
themselves to circumstances more easily than tradesmen and professional men. They live at a
greater distance from their neighbours: they can change their style of living unperceived:
they can banish the decanter, change the dishes for a bit of bacon, make a treat out of a rasher
and eggs, and the world is none the wiser all the while. But the tradesman, the doctor, the
attorney, and the trader, cannot make the change so quietly, and unseen. The accursed decanter
cries footman or waiting maid, puts bells to the side of the wall, screams aloud for carpets;
and when I am asked, 'Lord, what is a glass of wine?' my answer is, that, in this country,
it is everything; it is the pitcher of the key; it demands all the other unnecessary expenses;
it is injurious to health, and must be injurious, every bottle of wine that is drunk containing
a certain portion of ardent spirits, besides other drugs deleterious in their nature; and,
of all the friends to the doctors, this fashionable beverage is the greatest. And, which adds
greatly to the folly, or, I should say, the real vice of using it, is, that the parties themselves,
nine times out of ten, do not drink it by choice; do not like it; do not relish it; but use
it from mere ostentation, being ashamed to be seen even by their own servants, not to drink
wine. At the very moment I am writing this, there are thousands of families in and near London,
who daily have wine upon their tables, and who drink it too, merely because their own servants
should not suspect them to be poor, and not deem them to be genteel; and thus families by thousands
are ruined, only because they are ashamed to be thought poor.

59. There is no shame belonging to poverty, which frequently arises from the virtues of the
impoverished parties. Not so frequently, indeed, as from vice, folly, and indiscretion; but
still very frequently. And as the Scripture tells us, that we are not to 'despise the poor
because he is poor'; so we ought not to honour the rich because he is rich. The true way is,
to take a fair survey of the character of a man as depicted in his conduct, and to respect
him, or despise him, according to a due estimate of that character. No country upon earth exhibits
so many, as this, of those fatal terminations of life, called suicides. These arise, in nine
instances out of ten, from this very source. But, such is the fact; so great is the disgrace
upon this country, and so numerous and terrible are the evils arising from this dread of being
thought to be poor.

60. Nevertheless, men ought to take care of their means, ought to use them prudently and sparingly,
and to keep their expenses always within the bounds of their income, be it what it may. One
of the effectual means of doing this is to purchase with ready money. ST. PAUL says, 'Owe no
man any thing:' and of his numerous precepts this is by no means the least worthy of our attention.
Credit has been boasted of as a very fine thing: to decry credit seems to be setting oneself
up against the opinions of the whole world; and I remember a paper in the FREEHOLDER or the
SPECTATOR, published just after the funding system had begun, representing 'PUBLIC Credit'
as a GODDESS, enthroned in a temple dedicated to her by her votaries, amongst whom she is dispensing
blessings of every description. It must be more than forty years since I read this paper, which
I read soon after the time when the late Mr. PITT uttered in Parliament an expression of his
anxious hope, that his 'name would be inscribed on the monument which he should raise to 'public
credit.' Time has taught me, that PUBLIC CREDIT means, the contracting of debts which a nation
never can pay; and I have lived to see this Goddess produce effects, in my country, which Satan
himself never could have produced. It is a very bewitching Goddess; and not less fatal in her
influence in private than in public affairs. It has been carried in this latter respect to
such a pitch, that scarcely any transaction, however low and inconsiderable in amount, takes
place in any other way. There is a trade in London, called the 'tally-trade,' by which, household
goods, coals, clothing, all sorts of things, are sold upon credit, the seller keeping a tally,
and receiving payment for the goods, little by little; so that the income and the earnings
of the buyers are always anticipated; are always gone, in fact, before they come in or are
earned; the sellers receiving, of course, a great deal more than the proper profit.

61. Without supposing you to descend to so low a grade as this, and even supposing you to be
lawyer, doctor, parson, or merchant; it is still the same thing, if you purchase on credit,
and not, perhaps, in a much less degree of disadvantage. Besides the higher price that you
pay there is the temptation to have what you really do not want. The cost seems a trifle, when
you have not to pay the money until a future time. It has been observed, and very truly observed,
that men used to lay out a one-pound note when they would not lay out a sovereign; a consciousness
of the intrinsic value of the things produces a retentiveness in the latter case more than
in the former: the sight and the touch assist the mind in forming its conclusions, and the
one-pound note was parted with, when the sovereign would have been kept. Far greater is the
difference between Credit and Ready money.

62. Put that together; that is to say, multiply twenty-five by twenty, and you will find, that,
at the end of twenty years, you have 500l., besides the accumulating and growing interest.
But the doctrine of these fathers and canons no longer prevails; they are set at nought by
the present age, even in the countries that adhere to their religion. ADDISON'S Goddess has
prevailed over the fathers and the canons; and men not only make a difference in the price
regulated by the difference in the mode of payment; but it would be absurd to expect them to
do otherwise.

64. Infinite are the ways in which gentlemen lose by this sort of dealing.

65. How is it that farmers are so exact, and show such a disposition to retrench in the article
of labour, when they seem to think little, or nothing, about the sums which they pay in tax
upon malt, wine, sugar, tea, soap, candles, tobacco, and various other things? You find the
utmost difficulty in making them understand, that they are affected by these. The reason is,
that they see the money which they give to the labourer on each succeeding Saturday night;
but they do not see that which they give in taxes on the articles before mentioned. Why is
it that they make such an outcry about the six or seven millions a year which are paid in poor-rates,
and say not a word about the sixty millions a year raised in other taxes? The consumer pays
all; and, therefore, they are as much interested in the one as the other; and yet the farmers
think of no tax but the poor tax. The reason is, that the latter is collected from them in
money: they see it go out of their hands into the hands of another; and, therefore, they are
everlastingly anxious to reduce the poor-rates, and they take care to keep them within the
smallest possible bounds.

66.

67. Now, supposing you to have a plenty; to have a fortune beyond your wants, would not the
money which you would save in this way be very well applied in acts of real benevolence? Your
own heart will suggest the answer; and, if there were no motive but this, what need I say more
in the advice which I have here tendered to you?

68. Another great evil arising from this desire to be thought rich; or, rather from the desire
not to be thought poor, is the destructive thing which has been honoured by the name of 'speculation;'
but which ought to be called Gambling. It is a purchasing of something which you do not want
either in your family or in the way of ordinary trade: a something to be sold again with a
great profit; and on the sale of which there is a considerable hazard. When purchases of this
sort are made with ready money, they are not so offensive to reason and not attended with such
risk; but when they are made with money borrowed for the purpose, they are neither more nor
less than gambling transactions; and they have been, in this country, a source of ruin, misery,
and suicide, admitting of no adequate description. I grant that this gambling has arisen from
the influence of the 'Goddess' before mentioned; I grant that it has arisen from the facility
of obtaining the fictitious means of making the purchases; and I grant that that facility has
been created by the system under the baneful influence of which we live. But it is not the
less necessary that I beseech you not to practise such gambling; that I beseech you, if you
be engaged in it, to disentangle yourself from it as soon as you can.

69.

70. In all situations of life, avoid the trammels of the law. Man's nature must be changed
before law-suits will cease; and, perhaps, it would be next to impossible to make them less
frequent than they are in the present state of this country; but though no man, who has any
property at all, can say that he will have nothing to do with law-suits, it is in the power
of most men to avoid them in a considerable degree. One good rule is to have as little as possible
to do with any man who is fond of law-suits, and who, upon every slight occasion, talks of
an appeal to the law. They have carried this their disposition with them to America; for which
reason no one likes to live in a German neighbourhood.

71. Before you go to law consider well the cost; for if you win your suit and are poorer than
you were before, what do you accomplish? You only imbibe a little additional anger against
your opponent; you injure him, but do harm to yourself. Better to put up with the loss of one
pound than of two, to which latter is to be added all the loss of time, all the trouble, and
all the mortification and anxiety attending a law-suit. To set an attorney to work to worry
and torment another man is a very base act; to alarm his family as well as himself, while you
are sitting quietly at home. If a man owe you money which he cannot pay, why add to his distress
without the chance of benefit to yourself? Thousands of men have injured themselves by resorting
to the law; while very few ever bettered themselves by it, except such resort were unavoidable.

72. Nothing is much more discreditable than what is called hard dealing. They say of the Turks,
that they know nothing of two prices for the same article; and that to ask an abatement of
the lowest shopkeeper is to insult him. It would be well if Christians imitated Mahometans
in this respect. To ask one price and take another, or to offer one price and give another,
besides the loss of time that it occasions, is highly dishonourable to the parties, and especially
when pushed to the extent of solemn protestations. There is this circumstance in favour of
the bookseller's business: every book has its fixed price, and no one ever asks an abatement.
If it were thus in all other trades, how much time would be saved, and how much immorality
prevented!

73. As to the spending of your time, your business or your profession is to claim the priority
of everything else. Unless that be duly attended to, there can be no real pleasure in any other
employment of a portion of your time. Men, however, must have some leisure, some relaxation
from business; and in the choice of this relaxation much of your happiness will depend. Where
fields and gardens are at hand, they present the most rational scenes for leisure. As to company,
I have said enough in the former letter to deter any young man from that of drunkards and rioting
companions; but there is such a thing as your quiet 'pipe-and-pot-companions,' which are, perhaps,
the most fatal of all. Nothing can be conceived more dull, more stupid, more the contrary of
edification and rational amusement, than sitting, sotting, over a pot and a glass, sending
out smoke from the head, and articulating, at intervals, nonsense about all sorts of things.
Seven years service as a galley-slave would be more bearable to a man of sense, than seven
months confinement to society like this. Yet, such is the effect of habit, that, if a young
man become a frequenter of such scenes, the idle propensity sticks to him for life. Some companions,
however, every man must have; but these every well-behaved man will find in private houses,
where families are found residing and where the suitable intercourse takes place between women
and men. A man that cannot pass an evening without drink merits the name of a sot. Why should
there be drink for the purpose of carrying on conversation? Women stand in need of no drink
to stimulate them to converse; and I have a thousand times admired their patience in sitting
quietly at their work, while their husbands are engaged, in the same room, with bottles and
glasses before them, thinking nothing of the expense and still less of the shame which the
distinction reflects upon them. We have to thank the women for many things, and particularly
for their sobriety, for fear of following their example in which men drive them from the table,
as if they said to them: 'You have had enough; food is sufficient for you; but we must remain
to fill ourselves with drink, and to talk in language which your ears ought not to endure.'
When women are getting up to retire from the table, men rise in honour of them; but they take
special care not to follow their excellent example. That which is not fit to be uttered before
women is not fit to be uttered at all; and it is next to a proclamation, tolerating drunkenness
and indecency, to send women from the table the moment they have swallowed their food. The
practice has been ascribed to a desire to leave them to themselves; but why should they be
left to themselves? Their conversation is always the most lively, while their persons are generally
the most agreeable objects. No: the plain truth is, that it is the love of the drink and of
the indecent talk that send women from the table; and it is a practice which I have always
abhorred. I like to see young men, especially, follow them out of the room, and prefer their
company to that of the sots who are left behind.

74. Another mode of spending the leisure time is that of books. Rational and well-informed
companions may be still more instructive; but books never annoy; they cost little; and they
are always at hand, and ready at your call. The sort of books must, in some degree, depend
upon your pursuit in life; but there are some books necessary to every one who aims at the
character of a well-informed man. I have slightly mentioned HISTORY and Geography in the preceding
letter; but I must here observe, that, as to both these, you should begin with your own country,
and make yourself well acquainted, not only with its ancient state, but with the origin of
all its principal institutions. To read of the battles which it has fought, and of the intrigues
by which one king or one minister has succeeded another, is very little more profitable than
the reading of a romance. To understand well the history of the country, you should first understand
how it came to be divided into counties, hundreds, and into parishes; how judges, sheriffs,
and juries, first arose; to what end they were all invented, and how the changes with respect
to any of them have been produced. But it is of particular consequence that you ascertain the
state of the people in former times, which is to be ascertained by comparing the then price
of labour with the then price of food. You hear enough, and you read enough, about the glorious
wars in the reign of KING EDWARD the THIRD; and it is very proper that those glories should
be recorded and remembered; but you never read, in the works of the historians, that, in that
reign, a common labourer earned threepence-halfpenny a day; and that a fat sheep was sold,
at the same time, for one shilling and twopence, and a fat hog, two years old, for three shillings
and fourpence, and a fat goose for twopence-halfpenny. You never read that women received a
penny a day for hay-making or weeding in the corn, and that a gallon of red wine was sold for
fourpence. These are matters which historians have deemed to be beneath their notice; but they
are matters of real importance: they are matters which ought to have practical effect at this
time; for these furnish the criterion whereby we are to judge of our condition compared with
that of our forefathers. The poor-rates form a great feature in the laws and customs of this
country. Put to a thousand persons who have read what is called the history of England; put
to them the question, how the poor-rates came? and nine hundred and ninety-nine of the thousand
will tell you, that they know nothing at all of the matter. This is not history; a list of
battles and a string of intrigues are not history, they communicate no knowledge applicable
to our present state; and it really is better to amuse oneself with an avowed romance, which
latter is a great deal worse than passing one's time in counting the trees.

75. History has been described as affording arguments of experience; as a record of what has
been, in order to guide us as to what is likely to be, or what ought to be; but, from this
romancing history, no such experience is to be derived: for it furnishes no facts on which
to found arguments relative to the existing or future state of things. To come at the true
history of a country you must read its laws: you must read books treating of its usages and
customs in former times; and you must particularly inform yourself as to prices of labour and
of food. By reading the single Act of the 23rd year of EDWARD the THIRD, specifying the price
of labour at that time; by reading an Act of Parliament passed in the 24th year of HENRY the
EIGHTH; by reading these two Acts, and then reading the CHRONICON PRECIOSUM of BISHOP FLEETWOOD,
which shows the price of food in the former reign, you come into full possession of the knowledge
of what England was in former times. Divers books teach how the divisions of the country arose,
and how its great institutions were established; and the result of this reading is a store
of knowledge, which will afford you pleasure for the whole of your life.

76. History, however, is by no means the only thing about which every man's leisure furnishes
him with the means of reading; besides which, every man has not the same taste. Poetry, geography,
moral essays, the divers subjects of philosophy, travels, natural history, books on sciences;
and, in short, the whole range of book-knowledge is before you; but there is one thing always
to be guarded against; and that is, not to admire and applaud anything you read, merely because
it is the fashion to admire and applaud it. Read, consider well what you read, form your own
judgment, and stand by that judgment in despite of the sayings of what are called learned men,
until fact or argument be offered to convince you of your error. One writer praises another;
and it is very possible for writers so to combine as to cry down and, in some sort, to destroy
the reputation of any one who meddles with the combination, unless the person thus assailed
be blessed with uncommon talent and uncommon perseverance. When I read the works of POPE and
of SWIFT, I was greatly delighted with their lashing of DENNIS; but wondered, at the same time,
why they should have taken so much pains in running down such a fool. By the merest accident
in the world, being at a tavern in the woods of America, I took up an old book, in order to
pass away the time while my travelling companions were drinking in the next room; but seeing
the book contained the criticisms of DENNIS, I was about to lay it down, when the play of 'CATO'
caught my eye; and having been accustomed to read books in which this play was lauded to the
skies, and knowing it to have been written by ADDISON, every line of whose works I had been
taught to believe teemed with wisdom and genius, I condescended to begin to read, though the
work was from the pen of that fool DENNIS. I read on, and soon began to laugh, not at Dennis,
but at Addison. I laughed so much and so loud, that the landlord, who was in the passage, came
in to see what I was laughing at. In short, I found it a most masterly production, one of the
most witty things that I had ever read in my life. I was delighted with DENNIS, and was heartily
ashamed of my former admiration of CATO, and felt no little resentment against POPE and SWIFT
for their endless reviling of this most able and witty critic. This, as far as I recollect,
was the first emancipation that had assisted me in my reading. I have, since that time, never
taken any thing upon trust: I have judged for myself, trusting neither to the opinions of writers
nor in the fashions of the day. Having been told by DR. BLAIR, in his lectures on Rhetoric,
that, if I meant to write correctly, I must 'give my days and nights to ADDISON,' I read a
few numbers of the Spectator at the time I was writing my English Grammar: I gave neither my
nights nor my days to him; but I found an abundance of matter to afford examples of false grammar;
and, upon a reperusal, I found that the criticisms of DENNIS might have been extended to this
book too.

77. But that which never ought to have been forgotten by those who were men at the time, and
that which ought to be made known to every young man of the present day, in order that he may
be induced to exercise his own judgment with regard to books, is, the transactions relative
to the writings of SHAKSPEARE, which transactions took place about thirty years ago. It is
still, and it was then much more, the practice to extol every line of SHAKSPEARE to the skies:
not to admire SHAKSPEARE has been deemed to be a proof of want of understanding and taste.
MR. GARRICK, and some others after him, had their own good and profitable reasons for crying
up the works of this poet. When I was a very little boy, there was a jubilee in honour of SHAKSPEARE,
and as he was said to have planted a Mulberry tree, boxes, and other little ornamental things
in wood, were sold all over the country, as having been made out of the trunk or limbs of this
ancient and sacred tree. We Protestants laugh at the relics so highly prized by Catholics;
but never was a Catholic people half so much duped by the relics of saints, as this nation
was by the mulberry tree, of which, probably, more wood was sold than would have been sufficient
in quantity to build a ship of war, or a large house. This madness abated for some years; but,
towards the end of the last century it broke out again with more fury than ever. SHAKSPEARE'S
works were published by BOYDELL, an Alderman of London, at a subscription of five hundred pounds
for each copy, accompanied by plates, each forming a large picture. Amongst the mad men of
the day was a MR. IRELAND, who seemed to be more mad than any of the rest. His adoration of
the poet led him to perform a pilgrimage to an old farm-house, near Stratford-upon-Avon, said
to have been the birth-place of the poet. Arrived at the spot, he requested the farmer and
his wife to let him search the house for papers, first going upon his knees, and praying, in
the poetic style, the gods to aid him in his quest. He found no papers; but he found that the
farmer's wife, in clearing out a garret some years before, had found some rubbishy old papers
which she had burnt, and which had probably been papers used in the wrapping up of pigs' cheeks
to keep them from the bats. 'O, wretched woman!' exclaimed he; 'do you know what you have done?'
'O dear, no!' said the woman, half frightened out of her wits: 'no harm, I hope; for the papers
were very old; I dare say as old as the house itself.' This threw him into an additional degree
of excitement, as it is now fashionably called: he raved, he stamped, he foamed, and at last
quitted the house, covering the poor woman with very term of reproach; and hastening back to
Stratford, took post-chaise for London, to relate to his brother madmen the horrible sacrilege
of this heathenish woman. Unfortunately for MR. IRELAND, unfortunately for his learned brothers
in the metropolis, and unfortunately for the reputation of SHAKSPEARE, MR. IRELAND took with
him to the scene of his adoration a son, about sixteen years of age, who was articled to an
attorney in London. The son was by no means so sharply bitten as the father; and, upon returning
to town, he conceived the idea of supplying the place of the invaluable papers which the farm-house
heathen had destroyed. He thought, and he thought rightly, that he should have little difficulty
in writing plays just like those of Shakspeare! To get paper that should seem to have been
made in the reign of QUEEN ELIZABETH, and ink that should give to writing the appearance of
having the same age, was somewhat difficult; but both were overcome. Young IRELAND was acquainted
with a son of a bookseller, who dealt in old books: the blank leaves of these books supplied
the young author with paper; and he found out the way of making proper ink for his purpose.
To work he went, wrote several plays, some love-letters, and other things; and having got a
Bible, extant in the time of SHAKSPEARE, he wrote notes in the margin. All these, together
with sonnets in abundance, and other little detached pieces, he produced to his father, telling
him he got them from a gentleman, who had made him swear that he would not divulge his name.
The father announced the invaluable discovery to the literary world: the literary world rushed
to him; the manuscripts were regarded as genuine by the most grave and learned Doctors, some
of whom (and amongst these were DOCTORS PARR and WARTON) gave, under their hands, an opinion,
that the manuscripts must have been written by SHAKSPEARE; for that no other man in the world
could have been capable of writing them!

78. MR. IRELAND opened a subscription, published these new and invaluable manuscripts at an
enormous price; and preparations were instantly made for performing one of the plays, called
VORTIGERN. Soon after the acting of the play, the indiscretion of the lad caused the secret
to explode; and, instantly, those who had declared that he had written as well as SHAKSPEARE,
did every thing in their power to destroy him! The attorney drove him from his office; the
father drove him from his house; and, in short, he was hunted down as if he had been a malefactor
of the worst description. The truth of this relation is undeniable; it is recorded in numberless
books. The young man is, I believe, yet alive; and, in short, no man will question any one
of the facts.

79. After this, where is the person of sense who will be guided in these matters by fashion?
where is the man, who wishes not to be deluded, who will not, when he has read a book, judge
for himself? After all these jubilees and pilgrimages; after BOYDELL'S subscription of 500l.
for one single copy; after it had been deemed almost impiety to doubt of the genius of SHAKSPEARE
surpassing that of all the rest of mankind; after he had been called the 'Immortal Bard,' as
a matter of course, as we speak of MOSES and AARON, there having been but one of each in the
world; after all this, comes a lad of sixteen years of age, writes that which learned Doctors
declare could have been written by no man but SHAKSPEARE, and, when it is discovered that this
laughing boy is the real author, the DOCTORS turn round upon him, with all the newspapers,
magazines, and reviews, and, of course, the public at their back, revile him as an impostor;
and, under that odious name, hunt him out of society, and doom him to starve! This lesson,
at any rate, he has given us: not to rely on the judgment of Doctors and other pretenders to
literary superiority. Every young man, when he takes up a book for the first time, ought to
remember this story; and if he do remember it, he will disregard fashion with regard to the
book, and will pay little attention to the decision of those who call themselves critics.

80. I hope that your taste would keep you aloof from the writings of those detestable villains,
who employ the powers of their mind in debauching the minds of others, or in endeavours to
do it. They present their poison in such captivating forms, that it requires great virtue and
resolution to withstand their temptations; and, they have, perhaps, done a thousand times as
much mischief in the world as all the infidels and atheists put together. These men ought to
be called literary pimps: they ought to be held in universal abhorrence, and never spoken of
but with execration. Any appeal to bad passions is to be despised; any appeal to ignorance
and prejudice; but here is an appeal to the frailties of human nature, and an endeavour to
make the mind corrupt, just as it is beginning to possess its powers. I never have known any
but bad men, worthless men, men unworthy of any portion of respect, who took delight in, or
even kept in their possession, writings of the description to which I here allude. The writings
of SWIFT have this blemish; and, though he is not a teacher of lewdness, but rather the contrary,
there are certain parts of his poems which are much too filthy for any decent person to read.
It was beneath him to stoop to such means of setting forth that wit which would have been far
more brilliant without them. I have heard, that, in the library of what is called an 'illustrious
person,' sold some time ago, there was an immense collection of books of this infamous description;
and from this circumstance, if from no other, I should have formed my judgment of the character
of that person.

81. Besides reading, a young man ought to write, if he have the capacity and the leisure. If
you wish to remember a thing well, put it into writing, even if you burn the paper immediately
after you have done; for the eye greatly assists the mind. Memory consists of a concatenation
of ideas, the place, the time, and other circumstances, lead to the recollection of facts;
and no circumstance more effectually than stating the facts upon paper. A JOURNAL should be
kept by every young man. Put down something against every day in the year, if it be merely
a description of the weather. You will not have done this for one year without finding the
benefit of it. It disburthens the mind of many things to be recollected; it is amusing and
useful, and ought by no means to be neglected. How often does it happen that we cannot make
a statement of facts, sometimes very interesting to ourselves and our friends, for the want
of a record of the places where we were, and of things that occurred on such and such a day!
How often does it happen that we get into disagreeable disputes about things that have passed,
and about the time and other circumstances attending them! As a thing of mere curiosity, it
is of some value, and may frequently prove of very great utility. It demands not more than
a minute in the twenty-four hours; and that minute is most agreeably and advantageously employed.
It tends greatly to produce regularity in the conducting of affairs: it is a thing demanding
a small portion of attention once in every day; I myself have found it to be attended with
great and numerous benefits, and I therefore strongly recommend it to the practice of every reader.

LETTER III

TO A LOVER

82. There are two descriptions of Lovers on whom all advice would be wasted; namely, those
in whose minds passion so wholly overpowers reason as to deprive the party of his sober senses.
Few people are entitled to more compassion than young men thus affected: it is a species of
insanity that assails them; and, when it produces self-destruction, which it does in England
more frequently than in all the other countries in the world put together, the mortal remains
of the sufferer ought to be dealt with in as tender a manner as that of which the most merciful
construction of the law will allow. If SIR SAMUEL ROMILLY'S remains were, as they were, in
fact, treated as those of a person labouring under 'temporary mental derangement,' surely the
youth who destroys his life on account of unrequited love, ought to be considered in as mild
a light! SIR SAMUEL was represented, in the evidence taken before the Coroner's Jury, to have
been inconsolable for the loss of his wife; that this loss had so dreadful an effect upon his
mind, that it bereft him of his reason, made life insupportable, and led him to commit the
act of suicide: and, on this ground alone, his remains and his estate were rescued from the
awful, though just and wise, sentence of the law. But, unfortunately for the reputation of
the administration of that just and wise law, there had been, only about two years before,
a poor man, at Manchester, buried in crossroads, and under circumstances which entitled his
remains to mercy much more clearly than in the case of SIR SAMUEL ROMILLY.

83. This unfortunate youth, whose name was SMITH, and who was a shoemaker, was in love with
a young woman, who, in spite of all his importunities and his proofs of ardent passion, refused
to marry him, and even discovered her liking for another; and he, unable to support life, accompanied
by the thought of her being in possession of any body but himself, put an end to his life by
the means of a rope. If, in any case, we are to presume the existence of insanity; if, in any
case, we are led to believe the thing without positive proof; if, in any case, there can be
an apology in human nature itself, for such an act; this was that case. We all know (as I observed
at the time); that is to say, all of us who cannot wait to calculate upon the gains and losses
of the affair; all of us, except those who are endowed with this provident frigidity, know
well what youthful love is; and what its torments are, when accompanied by even the smallest
portion of jealousy. Every man, and especially every Englishman (for here we seldom love or
hate by halves), will recollect how many mad pranks he has played; how many wild and ridiculous
things he has said and done between the age of sixteen and that of twenty-two; how many times
a kind glance has scattered all his reasoning and resolutions to the winds; how many times
a cool look has plunged him into the deepest misery! Poor SMITH, who was at this age of love
and madness, might, surely, be presumed to have done the deed in a moment of 'temporary mental
derangement.' He was an object of compassion in every humane breast: he had parents and brethren
and kindred and friends to lament his death, and to feel shame at the disgrace inflicted on
his lifeless body: yet, HE was pronounced to be a felo de se, or self-murderer, and his body
was put into a hole by the way-side, with a stake driven down through it; while that of ROMILLY
had mercy extended to it, on the ground that the act had been occasioned by 'temporary mental
derangement' caused by his grief for the death of his wife!

84. To reason with passion like that of the unfortunate SMITH, is perfectly useless; you may,
with as much chance of success, reason and remonstrate with the winds or the waves: if you
make impression, it lasts but for a moment: your effort, like an inadequate stoppage of waters,
only adds, in the end, to the violence of the torrent: the current must have and will have
its course, be the consequences what they may. In cases not quite so decided, absence, the
sight of new faces, the sound of new voices, generally serve, if not as a radical cure, as
a mitigation, at least, of the disease. But, the worst of it is, that, on this point, we have
the girls (and women too) against us! For they look upon it as right that every lover should
be a little maddish; and, every attempt to rescue him from the thraldom imposed by their charms,
they look upon as an overt act of treason against their natural sovereignty. No girl ever liked
a young man less for his having done things foolish and wild and ridiculous, provided she was
sure that love of her had been the cause: let her but be satisfied upon this score, and there
are very few things which she will not forgive. And, though wholly unconscious of the fact,
she is a great and sound philosopher after all. For, from the nature of things, the rearing
of a family always has been, is, and must ever be, attended with cares and troubles, which
must infallibly produce, at times, feelings to be combated and overcome by nothing short of
that ardent affection which first brought the parties together. So that, talk as long as Parson
MALTHUS likes about 'moral restraint;' and report as long as the Committees of Parliament please
about preventing 'premature and improvident marriages' amongst the labouring classes, the passion
that they would restrain, while it is necessary to the existence of mankind, is the greatest
of all the compensations for the inevitable cares, troubles, hardships, and sorrows of life;
and, as to the marriages, if they could once be rendered universally provident, every generous
sentiment would quickly be banished from the world.

85. The other description of lovers, with whom it is useless to reason, are those who love
according to the rules of arithmetic, or who measure their matrimonial expectations by the
chain of the land-surveyor. These are not love and marriage; they are bargain and sale. Young
men will naturally, and almost necessarily, fix their choice on young women in their own rank
in life; because from habit and intercourse they will know them best. But, if the length of
the girl's purse, present or contingent, be a consideration with the man, or the length of
his purse, present or contingent, be a consideration with her, it is an affair of bargain and
sale. I know that kings, princes, and princesses are, in respect of marriage, restrained by
the law: I know that nobles, if not thus restrained by positive law, are restrained, in fact,
by the very nature of their order. And here is a disadvantage which, as far as real enjoyment
of life is concerned, more than counterbalances all the advantages that they possess over the
rest of the community. This disadvantage, generally speaking, pursues rank and riches downwards,
till you approach very nearly to that numerous class who live by manual labour, becoming, however,
less and less as you descend. You generally find even very vulgar rich men making a sacrifice
of their natural and rational taste to their mean and ridiculous pride, and thereby providing
for themselves an ample supply of misery for life. By preferring 'provident marriages' to marriages
of love, they think to secure themselves against all the evils of poverty; but, if poverty
come, and come it may, and frequently does, in spite of the best laid plans, and best modes
of conduct; if poverty come, then where is the counterbalance for that ardent mutual affection,
which troubles, and losses, and crosses always increase rather than diminish, and which, amidst
all the calamities that can befall a man, whispers to his heart, that his best possession is
still left him unimpaired? The WORCESTERSHIRE BARONET, who has had to endure the sneers of
fools on account of his marriage with a beautiful and virtuous servant maid, would, were the
present ruinous measures of the Government to drive him from his mansion to a cottage, still
have a source of happiness; while many of those, who might fall in company with him, would,
in addition to all their other troubles, have, perhaps, to endure the reproaches of wives to
whom poverty, or even humble life, would be insupportable.

86. If marrying for the sake of money be, under any circumstances, despicable, if not disgraceful;
if it be, generally speaking, a species of legal prostitution, only a little less shameful
than that which, under some governments, is openly licensed for the sake of a tax; if this
be the case generally, what ought to be said of a young man, who, in the heyday of youth, should
couple himself on to a libidinous woman, old enough, perhaps, to be his grandmother, ugly as
the nightmare, offensive alike to the sight and the smell, and who should pretend to love her
too: and all this merely for the sake of her money? Why, it ought, and it, doubtless, would
be said of him, that his conduct was a libel on both man and womankind; that his name ought,
for ever, to be synonymous with baseness and nastiness, and that in no age and in no nation,
not marked by a general depravity of manners, and total absence of all sense of shame, every
associate, male or female, of such a man, or of his filthy mate, would be held in abhorrence.
Public morality would drive such a hateful pair from society, and strict justice would hunt
them from the face of the earth.

87. BUONAPARTE could not be said to marry for money, but his motive was little better. It was
for dominion, for power, for ambition, and that, too, of the most contemptible kind. I knew
an American Gentleman, with whom BUONAPARTE had always been a great favourite; but the moment
the news arrived of his divorce and second marriage, he gave him up. This piece of grand prostitution
was too much to be defended. And the truth is, that BUONAPARTE might have dated his decline
from the day of that marriage. My American friend said, 'If I had been he, I would, in the
first place, have married the poorest and prettiest girl in all France.' If he had done this,
he would, in all probability, have now been on an imperial throne, instead of being eaten by
worms at the bottom of a very deep hole in Saint Helena; whence, however, his bones convey
to the world the moral, that to marry for money, for ambition, or from any motive other than
the one pointed out by affection, is not the road to glory, to happiness, or to peace.

88. Let me now turn from these two descriptions of lovers, with whom it is useless to reason,
and address myself to you, my reader, whom I suppose to be a real lover, but not so smitten
as to be bereft of your reason. You should never forget, that marriage, which is a state that
every young person ought to have in view, is a thing to last for life; and that, generally
speaking, it is to make life happy, or miserable; for, though a man may bring his mind to something
nearly a state of indifference, even that is misery, except with those who can hardly be reckoned
amongst sensitive beings. Marriage brings numerous cares, which are amply compensated by the
more numerous delights which are their companions. But to have the delights, as well as the
cares, the choice of the partner must be fortunate. I say fortunate; for, after all, love,
real love, impassioned affection, is an ingredient so absolutely necessary, that no perfect
reliance can be placed on the judgment. Yet, the judgment may do something; reason may have
some influence; and, therefore, I here offer you my advice with regard to the exercise of that
reason.

89. The things which you ought to desire in a wife are, 1. Chastity; 2. sobriety; 3. industry;
4. frugality; 5. cleanliness; 6. knowledge of domestic affairs; 7. good temper; 8. beauty.

90. CHASTITY, perfect modesty, in word, deed, and even thought, is so essential, that, without
it, no female is fit to be a wife. It is not enough that a young woman abstain from everything
approaching towards indecorum in her behaviour towards men; it is, with me, not enough that
she cast down her eyes, or turn aside her head with a smile, when she hears an indelicate allusion:
she ought to appear not to understand it, and to receive from it no more impression than if
she were a post. A loose woman is a disagreeable acquaintance: what must she be, then, as a
wife? Love is so blind, and vanity is so busy in persuading us that our own qualities will
be sufficient to ensure fidelity, that we are very apt to think nothing, or, at any rate, very
little, of trifling symptoms of levity; but if such symptoms show themselves now, we may be
well assured, that we shall never possess the power of effecting a cure. If prudery mean false
modesty, it is to be despised; but if it mean modesty pushed to the utmost extent, I confess
that I like it. Your 'free and hearty' girls I have liked very well to talk and laugh with;
but never, for one moment, did it enter into my mind that I could have endured a 'free and
hearty' girl for a wife. The thing is, I repeat, to last for life; it is to be a counterbalance
for troubles and misfortunes; and it must, therefore, be perfect, or it had better not be at
all. To say that one despises jealousy is foolish; it is a thing to be lamented; but the very
elements of it ought to be avoided. Gross indeed is the beast, for he is unworthy of the name
of man; nasty indeed is the wretch, who can even entertain the thought of putting himself between
a pair of sheets with a wife of whose infidelity he possesses the proof; but, in such cases,
a man ought to be very slow to believe appearances; and he ought not to decide against his
wife but upon the clearest proof. The last, and, indeed, the only effectual safeguard is, to
begin well; to make a good choice; to let the beginning be such as to render infidelity and
jealousy next to impossible. If you begin in grossness; if you couple yourself on to one with
whom you have taken liberties, infidelity is the natural and just consequence. When a Peer
of the realm, who had not been over-fortunate in his matrimonial affairs, was urging MAJOR
CARTWRIGHT to seek for nothing more than 'moderate reform,' the Major (forgetting the domestic
circumstances of his Lordship) asked him how he should relish 'moderate chastity' in a wife!
The bare use of the two words, thus coupled together, is sufficient to excite disgust. Yet
with this 'moderate chastity' you must be, and ought to be, content, if you have entered into
marriage with one, in whom you have ever discovered the slightest approach towards lewdness,
either in deeds, words, or looks. To marry has been your own act; you have made the contract
for your own gratification; you knew the character of the other party; and the children, if
any, or the community, are not to be the sufferers for your gross and corrupt passion. 'Moderate
chastity' is all that you have, in fact, contracted for: you have it, and you have no reason
to complain. When I come to address myself to the husband, I shall have to say more upon this
subject, which I dismiss for the present with observing, that my observation has convinced
me, that, when families are rendered unhappy from the existence of 'moderate chastity,' the
fault, first or last, has been in the man, ninety-nine times out of every hundred.

91. SOBRIETY. By sobriety I do not mean merely an absence of drinking to a state of intoxication;
for, if that be hateful in a man, what must it be in a woman! There is a Latin proverb, which
says, that wine, that is to say, intoxication, brings forth truth. Whatever it may do in this
way, in men, in women it is sure, unless prevented by age or by salutary ugliness, to produce
a moderate, and a very moderate, portion of chastity. There never was a drunken woman, a woman
who loved strong drink, who was chaste, if the opportunity of being the contrary presented
itself to her. There are cases where health requires wine, and even small portions of more
ardent liquor; but (reserving what I have further to say on this point, till I come to the
conduct of the husband) young unmarried women can seldom stand in need of these stimulants;
and, at any rate, only in cases of well-known definite ailments. Wine! 'only a glass or two
of wine at dinner, or so'! As soon as have married a girl whom I had thought liable to be persuaded
to drink, habitually, 'only a glass or two of wine at dinner, or so;' as soon as have married
such a girl, I would have taken a strumpet from the streets. And it has not required age to
give me this way of thinking: it has always been rooted in my mind from the moment that I began
to think the girls prettier than posts. There are few things so disgusting as a guzzling woman.
A gormandizing one is bad enough; but, one who tips off the liquor with an appetite, and exclaims
'good! good!' by a smack of her lips, is fit for nothing but a brothel. There may be cases,
amongst the hard-labouring women, such as reapers, for instance, especially when they have
children at the breast; there may be cases, where very hard-working women may stand in need
of a little good beer; beer, which, if taken in immoderate quantities, would produce intoxication.
But, while I only allow the possibility of the existence of such cases, I deny the necessity
of any strong drink at all in every other case. Yet, in this metropolis, it is the general
custom for tradesmen, journeymen, and even labourers, to have regularly on their tables the
big brewers' poison, twice in every day, and at the rate of not less than a pot to a person,
women, as well as men, as the allowance for the day. A pot of poison a day, at fivepence the
pot, amounts to seven pounds and two shillings in the year! Man and wife suck down, in this
way, fourteen pounds four shillings a year! Is it any wonder that they are clad in rags, that
they are skin and bone, and that their children are covered with filth?

92. I mean a great deal more than this; I mean sobriety of conduct. The word sober, and its
derivatives, do not confine themselves to matters of drink: they express steadiness, seriousness,
carefulness, scrupulous propriety of conduct; and they are thus used amongst country people
in many parts of England. When a Somersetshire fellow makes too free with a girl, she reproves
him with, 'Come! be sober!' And when we wish a team, or any thing, to be moved on steadily
and with great care, we cry out to the carter, or other operator, 'Soberly, soberly.' Now,
this species of sobriety is a great qualification in the person you mean to make your wife.
Skipping, capering, romping, rattling girls are very amusing where all costs and other consequences
are out of the question; and they may become sober in the Somersetshire sense of the word.
But while you have no certainty of this, you have a presumptive argument on the other side.
To be sure, when girls are mere children, they are to play and romp like children. 'You are
always in spirits, Cobbett!' To be sure; for why should I not?

93. But, besides this, even if you find in her that innate 'sobriety' of which I have been
speaking, there requires on your part, and that at once too, confidence and trust without any
limit. Confidence is, in this case, nothing unless it be reciprocal. Therefore, begin by proofs
of unlimited confidence; and, as example may serve to assist precept, and as I never have preached
that which I have not practised, I will give you the history of my own conduct in this respect.

94. When I first saw my wife, she was thirteen years old, and I was within about a month of
twenty-one.

95.

96.

97. Need I tell the reader what my feelings were? Need I tell kind-hearted English parents
what effect this anecdote must have produced on the minds of our children? Need I attempt to
describe what effect this example ought to have on every young woman who shall do me the honour
to read this book? Admiration of her conduct, and self-gratulation on this indubitable proof
of the soundness of my own judgment, were now added to my love of her beautiful person.

98. Now, I do not say that there are not many young women of this country who would, under
similar circumstances, have acted as my wife did in this case; on the contrary, I hope, and
do sincerely believe, that there are. But when her age is considered; when we reflect, that
she was living in a place crowded, literally crowded, with gaily-dressed and handsome young
men, many of whom really far richer and in higher rank than I was, and scores of them ready
to offer her their hand; when we reflect that she was living amongst young women who put upon
their backs every shilling that they could come at; when we see her keeping the bag of gold
untouched, and working hard to provide herself with but mere necessary apparel, and doing this
while she was passing from fourteen to eighteen years of age; when we view the whole of the
circumstances, we must say that here is an example, which, while it reflects honour on her
sex, ought to have weight with every young woman whose eyes or ears this relation shall reach.

99. If any young man imagine, that this great sobriety of conduct in young women must be accompanied
with seriousness approaching to gloom, he is, according to my experience and observation, very
much deceived. The contrary is the fact; for I have found that as, amongst men, your jovial
companions are, except over the bottle, the dullest and most insipid of souls; so amongst women,
the gay, rattling, and laughing, are, unless some party of pleasure, or something out of domestic
life, is going on, generally in the dumps and blue-devils. Some stimulus is always craved after
by this description of women; some sight to be seen, something to see or hear other than what
is to be found at home, which, as it affords no incitement, nothing 'to raise and keep up the
spirits', is looked upon merely as a place to be at for want of a better; merely a place for
eating and drinking, and the like; merely a biding place, whence to sally in search of enjoyments.
A greater curse than a wife of this description, it would be somewhat difficult to find; and,
in your character of Lover, you are to provide against it. I hate a dull, melancholy, moping
thing: I could not have existed in the same house with such a thing for a single month. The
mopers are, too, all giggle at other times: the gaiety is for others, and the moping for the
husband, to comfort him, happy man, when he is alone: plenty of smiles and of badinage for
others, and for him to participate with others; but the moping is reserved exclusively for
him. One hour she is capering about, as if rehearsing a jig; and, the next, sighing to the
motion of a lazy needle, or weeping over a novel and this is called sentiment! Music, indeed!
Give me a mother singing to her clean and fat and rosy baby, and making the house ring with
her extravagant and hyperbolical encomiums on it. That is the music which is 'the food of love;'
and not the formal, pedantic noises, an affectation of skill in which is now-a-days the ruin
of half the young couples in the middle rank of life. Let any man observe, as I so frequently
have, with delight, the excessive fondness of the labouring people for their children. Let
him observe with what pride they dress them out on a Sunday, with means deducted from their
own scanty meals. In France, a labourer's cottage means a shed with a dung-heap before the
door; and it means much about the same in America, where it is wholly inexcusable. In riding
once, about five years ago, from Petworth to Horsham, on a Sunday in the afternoon, I came
to a solitary cottage which stood at about twenty yards distance from the road. There was the
wife with the baby in her arms, the husband teaching another child to walk, while four more
were at play before them. I stopped and looked at them for some time, and then, turning my
horse, rode up to the wicket, getting into talk by asking the distance to Horsham. I found
that the man worked chiefly in the woods, and that he was doing pretty well. The wife was then
only twenty-two, and the man only twenty-five. She was a pretty woman, even for Sussex, which,
not excepting Lancashire, contains the prettiest women in England. He was a very fine and stout
young man. 'Why,' said I, 'how many children do you reckon to have at last?' 'I do not care
how many,' said the man: 'God never sends mouths without sending meat.' 'Did you ever hear,'
said I, 'of one PARSON MALTHUS?' 'No, sir.' 'Why, if he were to hear of your works, he would
be outrageous; for he wants an act of parliament to prevent poor people from marrying young,
and from having such lots of children.' 'Oh! the brute!' exclaimed the wife; while the husband
laughed, thinking that I was joking. I asked the man whether he had ever had relief from the
parish; and upon his answering in the negative, I took out my purse, took from it enough to
bait my horse at Horsham, and to clear my turnpikes to WORTH, whither I was going in order
to stay awhile, and gave him all the rest. Now, is it not a shame, is it not a sin of all sins,
that people like these should, by acts of the government, be reduced to such misery as to be
induced to abandon their homes and their country, to seek, in a foreign land, the means of
preventing themselves and their children from starving? And this has been, and now is, actually
the case with many such families in this same county of Sussex!

100. An ardent-minded young man (who, by-the-by, will, as I am afraid, have been wearied by
this rambling digression) may fear, that this great sobriety of conduct in a young woman, for
which I have been so strenuously contending, argues a want of that warmth, which he naturally
so much desires; and, if my observation and experience warranted the entertaining of this fear,
I should say, had I to live my life over again, give me the warmth, and I will stand my chance
as to the rest. Prostitutes never love, and, for the far greater part, never did. Their passion,
which is more mere animal than any thing else, is easily gratified; they, like rakes, change
not only without pain, but with pleasure; that is to say, pleasure as great as they can enjoy.
Women of light minds have seldom any ardent passion; love is a mere name, unless confined to
one object; and young women, in whom levity of conduct is observable, will not be thus restricted.
That levity, which, in a French girl, I should not have thought a great deal of, would have
frightened me away from an English or an American girl. When I was in France, just after I
was married, there happened to be amongst our acquaintance a gay, sprightly girl, of about
seventeen. I was remonstrating with her, one day, on the facility with which she seemed to
shift her smiles from object to object; and she, stretching one arm out in an upward direction,
the other in a downward direction, raising herself upon one foot, leaning her body on one side,
and thus throwing herself into flying attitude, answered my grave lecture by singing, in a
very sweet voice (significantly bowing her head and smiling at the same time), the following
lines from the vaudeville, in the play of Figaro:

  Si l'amour a des ailles;
  N'est ce pas pour voltiger?

That is, if love has wings, is it not to flutter about with? The wit, argument, and manner,
all together, silenced me. She, after I left France, married a very worthy man, has had a large
family, and has been, and is, a most excellent wife and mother. But that which does sometimes
well in France, does not do here at all. Our manners are more grave: steadiness is the rule,
and levity the exception. Love may voltige in France; but, in England, it cannot, with safety
to the lover: and it is a truth which, I believe, no man of attentive observation will deny,
that, as, in general, English wives are more warm in their conjugal attachments than those
of France, so, with regard to individuals, that those English women who are the most light
in their manners, and who are the least constant in their attachments, have the smallest portion
of that warmth, that indescribable passion which God has given to human beings as the great
counterbalance to all the sorrows and sufferings of life.

101. INDUSTRY. By industry, I do not mean merely laboriousness, merely labour or activity of
body, for purposes of gain or of saving; for there may be industry amongst those who have more
money than they know well what to do with: and there may be lazy ladies, as well as lazy farmers'
and tradesmen's wives. There is no state of life in which industry in the wife is not necessary
to the happiness and prosperity of the family, at the head of the household affairs of which
she is placed.

102. But, who is to tell whether a girl will make an industrious woman?

103. Nothing is much more disgusting than what the sensible country people call a maw-mouthed
woman. A maw-mouthed man is bad enough: he is sure to be a lazy fellow: but, a woman of this
description, in addition to her laziness, soon becomes the most disgusting of mates. In this
whole world nothing is much more hateful than a female's under jaw, lazily moving up and down,
and letting out a long string of half-articulate sounds. It is impossible for any man, who
has any spirit in him, to love such a woman for any length of time.

104. Look a little, also, at the labours of the teeth, for these correspond with those of the
other members of the body, and with the operations of the mind. 'Quick at meals, quick at work,'
is a saying as old as the hills, in this, the most industrious nation upon earth; and never
was there a truer saying. But fashion comes in here, and decides that you shall not be quick
at meals; that you shall sit and be carrying on the affair of eating for an hour, or more.
Good God! what have I not suffered on this account! However, though she must sit as long as
the rest, and though she must join in the performance (for it is a real performance) unto the
end of the last scene, she cannot make her teeth abandon their character. She may, and must,
suffer the slice to linger on the plate, and must make the supply slow, in order to fill up
the time; but when she does bite, she cannot well disguise what nature has taught her to do;
and you may be assured, that if her jaws move in slow time, and if she rather squeeze than
bite the food; if she so deal with it as to leave you in doubt as to whether she mean finally
to admit or reject it; if she deal with it thus, set her down as being, in her very nature,
incorrigibly lazy. Never mind the pieces of needle-work, the tambouring, the maps of the world
made by her needle. Get to see her at work upon a mutton chop, or a bit of bread and cheese;
and, if she deal quickly with these, you have a pretty good security for that activity, that
stirring industry, without which a wife is a burden instead of being a help. And, as to love,
it cannot live for more than a month or two (in the breast of a man of spirit) towards a lazy
woman.

105.

106. And, is this being rigid? Is it being harsh; is it being hard upon women? Is it the offspring
of the frigid severity of age?

107. FRUGALITY. This means the contrary of extravagance. But while the inconvenience of even
these immense masses is not too great to be overcome by a really extravagant woman, who jumps
with joy at a basket of strawberries at a guinea an ounce, and who would not give a straw for
green peas later in the year than January; while such a dame would lighten the bags of a loan-monger,
or shorten the rent-roll of half-a-dozen peerages amalgamated into one possession, she would,
with very little study and application of her talent, send a nobleman of ordinary estate to
the poor-house or the pension list, which last may be justly regarded as the poor-book of the
aristocracy.

108.

109.

110. CLEANLINESS. This is a capital ingredient; for there never yet was, and there never will
be, love of long duration, sincere and ardent love, in any man, towards a 'filthy mate.' I
mean any man in England, or in those parts of America where the people have descended from
the English. I do not say, that there are not men enough, even in England, to live peaceably
and even contentedly, with dirty, sluttish women; for, there are some who seem to like the
filth well enough.

111. It is not dress that the husband wants to be perpetual: it is not finery; but cleanliness
in every thing. The French women dress enough, especially when they sally forth. My excellent
neighbour, Mr. JOHN TREDWELL, of Long Island, used to say, that the French were 'pigs in the
parlour, and peacocks on the promenade;' an alliteration which 'CANNING'S SELF' might have
envied! This occasional cleanliness is not the thing that an English or an American husband
wants: he wants it always; indoors as well as out; by night as well as by day; on the floor
as well as on the table; and, however he may grumble about the 'fuss' and the 'expense' of
it, he would grumble more if he had it not. I once saw a picture representing the amusements
of Portuguese Lovers; that is to say, three or four young men, dressed in gold or silver laced
clothes, each having a young girl, dressed like a princess, and affectionately engaged in hunting
down and killing the vermin in his head! This was, perhaps, an exaggeration; but that it should
have had the shadow of foundation, was enough to fill me with contempt for the whole nation.

112. The signs of cleanliness are, in the first place, a clean skin. An English girl will hardly
let her lover see the stale dirt between her fingers, as I have many times seen it between
those of French women, and even ladies, of all ages. An English girl will have her face clean,
to be sure, if there be soap and water within her reach; but, get a glance, just a glance,
at her poll, if you have any doubt upon the subject; and, if you find there, or behind the
ears, what the Yorkshire people call grime, the sooner you cease your visits the better. I
hope, now, that no young woman will be offended at this, and think me too severe on her sex.
I am only saying, I am only telling the women, that which all men think; and, it is a decided
advantage to them to be fully informed of our thoughts on the subject. If any one, who shall
read this, find, upon self-examination, that she is defective in this respect, there is plenty
of time for correcting the defect.

113. The country-people judge greatly from the state of the covering of the ancles and, if
that be not clean and tight, they conclude, that all out of sight is not what it ought to be.

114. I dismiss this part of my subject with a quotation from my 'YEAR'S RESIDENCE IN AMERICA,'
containing words which I venture to recommend to every young woman to engrave on her heart:
'The sweetest flowers, when they become putrid, stink the most; and a nasty woman is the nastiest
thing in nature.'

115. KNOWLEDGE OF DOMESTIC AFFAIRS. Without more or less of this knowledge, a lady, even the
wife of a peer, is but a poorish thing. It was the fashion, in former times, for ladies to
understand a great deal about these affairs, and it would be very hard to make me believe that
this did not tend to promote the interests and honour of their husbands. To receive and give
them characters is too much to be left to a servant, however good, and of service however long.
It was from the mansions of noblemen and gentlemen, and not from boarding-schools, that farmers
and tradesmen formerly took their wives; and though these days are gone, with little chance
of returning, there is still something left for ladies to do in checking that torrent of immorality
which is now crowding the streets with prostitutes and cramming the jails with thieves.

116.

117. I shall, when I come to address myself to the husband, have much more to say upon this
subject of keeping servants; but, what the lover, if he be not quite blind, has to look to,
is, that his intended wife know how to do the work of a house, unless he have fortune sufficient
to keep her like a lady.

118.

119. But, in a farmer's or a tradesman's family, the manual performance is absolutely necessary,
whether there be servants or not. Besides, what is the labour in such a case? And how many
thousands of ladies, who loll away the day, would give half their fortunes for that sound sleep
which the stirring house-wife seldom fails to enjoy.

120.

121. Of what use are her accomplishments? Of what use her music, her drawing, and her romantic
epistles? If she be good in her nature, the first little faint cry of her first baby drives
all the tunes and all the landscapes and all the Clarissa Harlowes out of her head for ever.
I once saw a very striking instance of this sort. It was a climb-over-the-wall match, and I
gave the bride away, at St. Margaret's Church, Westminster, the pair being as handsome a pair
as ever I saw in my life. Beauty, however, though in double quantity, would not pay the baker
and butcher; and, after an absence of little better than a year, I found the husband in prison
for debt; but I there found also his wife, with her baby, and she, who had never, before her
marriage, known what it was to get water to wash her own hands, and whose talk was all about
music, and the like, was now the cheerful sustainer of her husband, and the most affectionate
of mothers. All the music and all the drawing, and all the plays and romances were gone to
the winds! The husband and baby had fairly supplanted them; and even this prison-scene was
a blessing, as it gave her, at this early stage, an opportunity of proving her devotion to
her husband, who, though I have not seen him for about fifteen years, he being in a part of
America which I could not reach when last there, has, I am sure, amply repaid her for that
devotion. They have now a numerous family (not less than twelve children, I believe), and she
is, I am told, a most excellent and able mistress of a respectable house.

122. But, this is a rare instance: the husband, like his countrymen in general, was at once
brave, humane, gentle, and considerate, and the love was so sincere and ardent, on both sides,
that it made losses and sufferings appear as nothing. When I, in a sort of half-whisper, asked
Mrs. DICKENS where her piano was, she smiled, and turned her face towards her baby, that was
sitting on her knee; as much as to say, 'This little fellow has beaten the piano;' and, if
what I am now writing should ever have the honour to be read by her, let it be the bearer of
a renewed expression of my admiration of her conduct, and of that regard for her kind and sensible
husband, which time and distance have not in the least diminished, and which will be an inmate
of my heart until it shall cease to beat.

123. The like of this is, however, not to be expected: no man ought to think that he has even
a chance of it: besides, the husband was, in this case, a man of learning and of great natural
ability: he has not had to get his bread by farming or trade; and, in all probability, his
wife has had the leisure to practise those acquirements which she possessed at the time of
her marriage.

124.

125. Sulkiness, if you be not too blind to perceive it, is a temper to be avoided by all means.

126. Querulousness is a great fault.

127.

128. But, this is very painful to a man of any feeling; and, therefore, the best way is to
avoid a connexion, which is to give you a life of wailing and sighs.

129. BEAUTY. Though I have reserved this to the last of the things to be desired in a wife,
I by no means think it the last in point of importance. The less favoured part of the sex say,
that 'beauty is but skin-deep;' and this is very true; but, it is very agreeable, though, for
all that. Pictures are only paint-deep, or pencil-deep; but we admire them, nevertheless. "Handsome
is that handsome does," used to say to me an old man, who had marked me out for his not over
handsome daughter. 'Please your eye and plague your heart' is an adage that want of beauty
invented, I dare say, more than a thousand years ago. These adages would say, if they had but
the courage, that beauty is inconsistent with chastity, with sobriety of conduct, and with
all the female virtues. The argument is, that beauty exposes the possessor to greater temptation
than women not beautiful are exposed to; and that, therefore, their fall is more probable.
Let us see a little how this matter stands.

130. It is certainly true, that pretty girls will have more, and more ardent, admirers than
ugly ones; but, as to the temptation when in their unmarried state, there are few so very ugly
as to be exposed to no temptation at all; and, which is the most likely to resist; she who
has a choice of lovers, or she who if she let the occasion slip may never have it again? Which
of the two is most likely to set a high value upon her reputation, she whom all beholders admire,
or she who is admired, at best, by mere chance? And as to women in the married state, this
argument assumes, that, when they fall, it is from their own vicious disposition; when the
fact is, that, if you search the annals of conjugal infidelity, you will find, that, nine times
out of ten, the fault is in the husband. It is his neglect, his flagrant disregard, his frosty
indifference, his foul example; it is to these that, nine times out of ten, he owes the infidelity
of his wife; and, if I were to say ninety-nine times out of a hundred, the facts, if verified,
would, I am certain, bear me out. And whence this neglect, this disregard, this frosty indifference;
whence this foul example? Because it is easy, in so many cases, to find some woman more beautiful
than the wife. This is no justification for the husband to plead; for he has, with his eyes
open, made a solemn contract: if he have not beauty enough to please him, he should have sought
it in some other woman: if, as is frequently the case, he have preferred rank or money to beauty,
he is an unprincipled man, if he do any thing to make her unhappy who has brought him the rank
or the money. At any rate, as conjugal infidelity is, in so many cases; as it is generally
caused by the want of affection and due attention in the husband, it follows, of course, that
it must more frequently happen in the case of ugly than in that of handsome women.

131. In point of dress, nothing need be said to convince any reasonable man, that beautiful
women will be less expensive in this respect than women of a contrary description. Experience
teaches us, that ugly women are always the most studious about their dress; and, if we had
never observed upon the subject, reason would tell us, that it must be so. Few women are handsome
without knowing it; and if they know that their features naturally attract admiration, will
they desire to draw it off, and to fix it on lace and silks and jewels?

132. As to manners and temper there are certainly some handsome women who are conceited and
arrogant; but, as they have all the best reasons in the world for being pleased with themselves,
they afford you the best chance of general good humour; and this good humour is a very valuable
commodity in the married state. Some that are called handsome, and that are such at the first
glance, are dull, inanimate things, that might as well have been made of wax, or of wood. But,
the truth is, that this is not beauty, for this is not to be found only in the form of the
features, but in the movements of them also. Besides, here nature is very impartial; for she
gives animation promiscuously to the handsome as well as to the ugly; and the want of this
in the former is surely as bearable as in the latter.

133. But, the great use of female beauty, the great practical advantage of it is, that it naturally
and unavoidably tends to keep the husband in good humour with himself, to make him, to use
the dealer's phrase, pleased with his bargain. When old age approaches, and the parties have
become endeared to each other by a long series of joint cares and interests, and when children
have come and bound them together by the strongest ties that nature has in store; at this age
the features and the person are of less consequence; but, in the young days of matrimony, when
the roving eye of the bachelor is scarcely become steady in the head of the husband, it is
dangerous for him to see, every time he stirs out, a face more captivating than that of the
person to whom he is bound for life. Beauty is, in some degree, a matter of taste: what one
man admires, another does not; and it is fortunate for us that it is thus. But still there
are certain things that all men admire; and a husband is always pleased when he perceives that
a portion, at least, of these things are in his own possession: he takes this possession as
a compliment to himself: there must, he will think the world will believe, have been some merit
in him, some charm, seen or unseen, to have caused him to be blessed with the acquisition.

134. And then there arise so many things, sickness, misfortune in business, losses, many many
things, wholly unexpected; and, there are so many circumstances, perfectly nameless, to communicate
to the new-married man the fact, that it is not a real angel of whom he has got the possession;
there are so many things of this sort, so many and such powerful dampers of the passions, and
so many incentives to cool reflection; that it requires something, and a good deal too, to
keep the husband in countenance in this his altered and enlightened state. The passion of women
does not cool so soon: the lamp of their love burns more steadily, and even brightens as it
burns: and, there is, the young man may be assured, a vast difference in the effect of the
fondness of a pretty woman and that of one of a different description; and, let reason and
philosophy say what they will, a man will come down stairs of a morning better pleased after
seeing the former, than he would after seeing the latter, in her night-cap.

135. To be sure, when a man has, from whatever inducement, once married a woman, he is unjust
and cruel if he even slight her on account of her want of beauty, and, if he treat her harshly,
on this account, he is a brute. But, it requires a greater degree of reflection and consideration
than falls to the lot of men in general to make them act with justice in such a case; and,
therefore, the best way is to guard, if you can, against the temptation to commit such injustice,
which is to be done in no other way, than by not marrying any one that you do not think handsome.

136. I must not conclude this address to THE LOVER without something on the subject of seduction
and inconstancy.

137. As to constancy in Lovers, though I do not approve of the saying, 'At lovers' lies Jove
laughs;' yet, when people are young, one object may supplant another in their affections, not
only without criminality in the party experiencing the change, but without blame; and it is
honest, and even humane, to act upon the change; because it would be both foolish and cruel
to marry one girl while you liked another better: and the same holds good with regard to the
other sex. Even when marriage has been promised, and that, too, in the most solemn manner,
it is better for both parties to break off, than to be coupled together with the reluctant
assent of either; and I have always thought, that actions for damages, on this score, if brought
by the girl, show a want of delicacy as well as of spirit; and, if brought by the man, excessive
meanness. Some damage may, indeed, have been done to the complaining party; but no damage equal
to what that party would have sustained from a marriage, to which the other party would have
yielded by a sort of compulsion, producing to almost a certainty what Hogarth, in his Marriage
à la Mode, most aptly typifies by two curs, of different sexes, fastened together by what sportsmen
call couples, pulling different ways, and snarling and barking and foaming like furies.

138. But when promises have been made to a young woman; when they have been relied on for any
considerable time; when it is manifest that her peace and happiness, and, perhaps, her life,
depend upon their fulfilment; when things have been carried to this length, the change in the
Lover ought to be announced in the manner most likely to make the disappointment as supportable
as the case will admit of; for, though it is better to break the promise than to marry one
while you like another better; though it is better for both parties, you have no right to break
the heart of her who has, and that, too, with your accordance, and, indeed, at your instigation,
or, at least, by your encouragement, confided it to your fidelity. You cannot help your change
of affections; but you can help making the transfer in such a way as to cause the destruction,
or even probable destruction, nay, if it were but the deep misery, of her, to gain whose heart
you had pledged your own. You ought to proceed by slow degrees; you ought to call time to your
aid in executing the painful task; you ought scrupulously to avoid every thing calculated to
aggravate the sufferings of the disconsolate party.

139. A striking, a monstrous, instance of conduct the contrary of this has recently been placed
upon the melancholy records of the Coroner of Middlesex; which have informed an indignant public,
that a young man, having first secured the affections of a virtuous young woman, next promised
her marriage, then caused the banns to be published, and then, on the very day appointed for
the performance of the ceremony, married another woman, in the same church; and this, too,
without, as he avowed, any provocation, and without the smallest intimation or hint of his
intention to the disappointed party, who, unable to support existence under a blow so cruel,
put an end to that existence by the most deadly and the swiftest poison. If any thing could
wipe from our country the stain of having given birth to a monster so barbarous as this, it
would be the abhorrence of him which the jury expressed; and which, from every tongue, he ought
to hear to the last moment of his life.

140. Nor has a man any right to sport with the affections of a young woman, though he stop
short of positive promises.

141. There are, however, certain cases in which you deceive, or nearly deceive, yourself; cases
in which you are, by degrees and by circumstances, deluded into something very nearly resembling
sincere love for a second object, the first still, however, maintaining her ground in your
heart; cases in which you are not actuated by vanity, in which you are not guilty of injustice
and cruelty; but cases in which you, nevertheless, do wrong: and as I once did a wrong of this
sort myself, I will here give a history of it, as a warning to every young man who shall read
this little book; that being the best and, indeed, the only atonement, that I can make, or
ever could have made, for this only serious sin that I ever committed against the female sex.

142. The Province of New Brunswick, in North America, in which I passed my years from the age
of eighteen to that of twenty-six, consists, in general, of heaps of rocks, in the interstices
of which grow the pine, the spruce, and various sorts of fir trees, or, where the woods have
been burnt down, the bushes of the raspberry or those of the huckleberry. The province is cut
asunder lengthwise, by a great river, called the St. John, about two hundred miles in length,
and, at half way from the mouth, full a mile wide. Into this main river run innumerable smaller
rivers, there called CREEKS. On the sides of these creeks the land is, in places, clear of
rocks; it is, in these places, generally good and productive; the trees that grow here are
the birch, the maple, and others of the deciduous class; natural meadows here and there present
themselves; and some of these spots far surpass in rural beauty any other that my eyes ever
beheld; the creeks, abounding towards their sources in water-falls of endless variety, as well
in form as in magnitude, and always teeming with fish, while water-fowl enliven their surface,
and while wild-pigeons, of the gayest plumage, flutter, in thousands upon thousands, amongst
the branches of the beautiful trees, which, sometimes, for miles together, form an arch over
the creeks.

143. I, in one of my rambles in the woods, in which I took great delight, came to a spot at
a very short distance from the source of one of these creeks. Here was every thing to delight
the eye, and especially of one like me, who seem to have been born to love rural life, and
trees and plants of all sorts. Here were about two hundred acres of natural meadow, interspersed
with patches of maple-trees in various forms and of various extent; the creek (there about
thirty miles from its point of joining the St. John) ran down the middle of the spot, which
formed a sort of dish, the high and rocky hills rising all round it, except at the outlet of
the creek, and these hills crowned with lofty pines: in the hills were the sources of the creek,
the waters of which came down in cascades, for any one of which many a nobleman in England
would, if he could transfer it, give a good slice of his fertile estate; and in the creek,
at the foot of the cascades, there were, in the season, salmon the finest in the world, and
so abundant, and so easily taken, as to be used for manuring the land.

144. If nature, in her very best humour, had made a spot for the express purpose of captivating
me, she could not have exceeded the efforts which she had here made. But I found something
here besides these rude works of nature; I found something in the fashioning of which man had
had something to do. I found a large and well-built log dwelling house, standing (in the month
of September) on the edge of a very good field of Indian Corn, by the side of which there was
a piece of buck-wheat just then mowed. I found a homestead, and some very pretty cows. I found
all the things by which an easy and happy farmer is surrounded: and I found still something
besides all these; something that was destined to give me a great deal of pleasure and also
a great deal of pain, both in their extreme degree; and both of which, in spite of the lapse
of forty years, now make an attempt to rush back into my heart.

145. Partly from misinformation, and partly from miscalculation, I had lost my way; and, quite
alone, but armed with my sword and a brace of pistols, to defend myself against the bears,
I arrived at the log-house in the middle of a moonlight night, the hoar frost covering the
trees and the grass. A stout and clamorous dog, kept off by the gleaming of my sword, waked
the master of the house, who got up, received me with great hospitality, got me something to
eat, and put me into a feather-bed, a thing that I had been a stranger to for some years. I,
being very tired, had tried to pass the night in the woods, between the trunks of two large
trees, which had fallen side by side, and within a yard of each other. I had made a nest for
myself of dry fern, and had made a covering by laying boughs of spruce across the trunks of
the trees. But unable to sleep on account of the cold; becoming sick from the great quantity
of water that I had drank during the heat of the day, and being, moreover, alarmed at the noise
of the bears, and lest one of them should find me in a defenceless state, I had roused myself
up, and had crept along as well as I could. So that no hero of eastern romance ever experienced
a more enchanting change.

146. I had got into the house of one of those YANKEE LOYALISTS, who, at the close of the revolutionary
war (which, until it had succeeded, was called a rebellion) had accepted of grants of land
in the King's Province of New Brunswick; and who, to the great honour of England, had been
furnished with all the means of making new and comfortable settlements. I was suffered to sleep
till breakfast time, when I found a table, the like of which I have since seen so many in the
United States, loaded with good things. The master and the mistress of the house, aged about
fifty, were like what an English farmer and his wife were half a century ago. There were two
sons, tall and stout, who appeared to have come in from work, and the youngest of whom was
about my age, then twenty-three. But there was another member of the family, aged nineteen,
who (dressed according to the neat and simple fashion of New England, whence she had come with
her parents five or six years before) had her long light-brown hair twisted nicely up, and
fastened on the top of her head, in which head were a pair of lively blue eyes, associated
with features of which that softness and that sweetness, so characteristic of American girls,
were the predominant expressions, the whole being set off by a complexion indicative of glowing
health, and forming, figure, movements, and all taken together, an assemblage of beauties,
far surpassing any that I had ever seen but once in my life. That once was, too, two years
agone; and, in such a case and at such an age, two years, two whole years, is a long, long
while! It was a space as long as the eleventh part of my then life! Here was the present against
the absent: here was the power of the eyes pitted against that of the memory: here were all
the senses up in arms to subdue the influence of the thoughts: here was vanity, here was passion,
here was the spot of all spots in the world, and here were also the life, and the manners and
the habits and the pursuits that I delighted in: here was every thing that imagination can
conceive, united in a conspiracy against the poor little brunette in England! What, then, did
I fall in love at once with this bouquet of lilies and roses? Oh! by no means. I was, however,
so enchanted with the place; I so much enjoyed its tranquillity, the shade of the maple trees,
the business of the farm, the sports of the water and of the woods, that I stayed at it to
the last possible minute, promising, at my departure, to come again as often as I possibly
could; a promise which I most punctually fulfilled.

147. Winter is the great season for jaunting and dancing (called frolicking) in America. In
this Province the river and the creeks were the only roads from settlement to settlement. In
summer we travelled in canoes; in winter in sleighs on the ice or snow. During more than two
years I spent all the time I could with my Yankee friends: they were all fond of me: I talked
to them about country affairs, my evident delight in which they took as a compliment to themselves:
the father and mother treated me as one of their children; the sons as a brother; and the daughter,
who was as modest and as full of sensibility as she was beautiful, in a way to which a chap
much less sanguine than I was would have given the tenderest interpretation; which treatment
I, especially in the last-mentioned case, most cordially repaid.

148. It is when you meet in company with others of your own age that you are, in love matters,
put, most frequently, to the test, and exposed to detection. The next door neighbour might,
in that country, be ten miles off. We used to have a frolic, sometimes at one house and sometimes
at another. Here, where female eyes are very much on the alert, no secret can long be kept;
and very soon father, mother, brothers and the whole neighbourhood looked upon the thing as
certain, not excepting herself, to whom I, however, had never once even talked of marriage,
and had never even told her that I loved her. But I had a thousand times done these by implication,
taking into view the interpretation that she would naturally put upon my looks, appellations
and acts; and it was of this, that I had to accuse myself. Yet I was not a deceiver; for my
affection for her was very great: I spent no really pleasant hours but with her: I was uneasy
if she showed the slightest regard for any other young man: I was unhappy if the smallest matter
affected her health or spirits: I quitted her in dejection, and returned to her with eager
delight: many a time, when I could get leave but for a day, I paddled in a canoe two whole
succeeding nights, in order to pass that day with her. If this was not love, it was first cousin
to it; for as to any criminal intention I no more thought of it, in her case, than if she had
been my sister. Many times I put to myself the questions: 'What am I at? Is not this wrong?
Why do I go?' But still I went.

149. Then, further in my excuse, my prior engagement, though carefully left unalluded to by
both parties, was, in that thin population, and owing to the singular circumstances of it,
and to the great talk that there always was about me, perfectly well known to her and all her
family. It was matter of so much notoriety and conversation in the Province, that GENERAL CARLETON
(brother of the late Lord Dorchester), who was the Governor when I was there, when he, about
fifteen years afterwards, did me the honour, on his return to England, to come and see me at
my house in Duke Street, Westminster, asked, before he went away, to see my wife, of whom he
had heard so much before her marriage. So that here was no deception on my part: but still
I ought not to have suffered even the most distant hope to be entertained by a person so innocent,
so amiable, for whom I had so much affection, and to whose heart I had no right to give a single
twinge. I ought, from the very first, to have prevented the possibility of her ever feeling
pain on my account. I was young, to be sure; but I was old enough to know what was my duty
in this case, and I ought, dismissing my own feelings, to have had the resolution to perform it.

150. The last parting came; and now came my just punishment! The time was known to every body,
and was irrevocably fixed; for I had to move with a regiment, and the embarkation of a regiment
is an epoch in a thinly settled province. To describe this parting would be too painful even
at this distant day, and with this frost of age upon my head. The kind and virtuous father
came forty miles to see me just as I was going on board in the river. His looks and words I
have never forgotten. As the vessel descended, she passed the mouth of that creek which I had
so often entered with delight; and though England, and all that England contained, were before
me, I lost sight of this creek with an aching heart.

151. On what trifles turn the great events in the life of man! If I had received a cool letter
from my intended wife; if I had only heard a rumour of any thing from which fickleness in her
might have been inferred; if I had found in her any, even the smallest, abatement of affection;
if she had but let go any one of the hundred strings by which she held my heart: if any of
these, never would the world have heard of me. Young as I was; able as I was as a soldier;
proud as I was of the admiration and commendations of which I was the object; fond as I was,
too, of the command, which, at so early an age, my rare conduct and great natural talents had
given me; sanguine as was my mind, and brilliant as were my prospects: yet I had seen so much
of the meannesses, the unjust partialities, the insolent pomposity, the disgusting dissipations
of that way of life, that I was weary of it: I longed, exchanging my fine laced coat for the
Yankee farmer's home-spun, to be where I should never behold the supple crouch of servility,
and never hear the hectoring voice of authority, again; and, on the lonely banks of this branch-covered
creek, which contained (she out of the question) every thing congenial to my taste and dear
to my heart, I, unapplauded, unfeared, unenvied and uncalumniated, should have lived and died.

LETTER IV

TO A HUSBAND

152. It is in this capacity that your conduct will have the greatest effect on your happiness;
and a great deal will depend on the manner in which you begin. I am to suppose that you have
made a good choice; but a good young woman may be made, by a weak, a harsh, a neglectful, an
extravagant, or a profligate husband, a really bad wife and mother. All in a wife, beyond her
own natural disposition and education is, nine times out of ten, the work of her husband.

153. The first thing of all, be the rank in life what it may, is to convince her of the necessity
of moderation in expense; and to make her clearly see the justice of beginning to act upon
the presumption, that there are children coming, that they are to be provided for, and that
she is to assist in the making of that provision. Legally speaking, we have a right to do what
we please with our own property, which, however, is not our own, unless it exceed our debts.
And, morally speaking, we, at the moment of our marriage, contract a debt with the naturally
to be expected fruit of it; and, therefore (reserving further remarks upon this subject till
I come to speak of the education of children), the scale of expense should, at the beginning,
be as low as that of which a due attention to rank in life will admit.

154. The great danger of all is, beginning with servants, or a servant. Where there are riches,
or where the business is so great as to demand help in the carrying on of the affairs of a
house, one or more female servants must be kept; but, where the work of a house can be done
by one pair of hands, why should there be two; especially as you cannot have the hands without
having the mouth, and, which is frequently not less costly, inconvenient and injurious, the
tongue? When children come, there must, at times, be some foreign aid; but, until then, what
need can the wife of a young tradesman, or even farmer (unless the family be great) have of
a servant? The wife is young, and why is she not to work as well as the husband? What justice
is there in wanting you to keep two women instead of one? You have not married them both in
form; but, if they be inseparable, you have married them in substance; and if you are free
from the crime of bigamy, you have the far most burthensome part of its consequences.

155. I am well aware of the unpopularity of this doctrine; well aware of its hostility to prevalent
habits; well aware that almost every tradesman and every farmer, though with scarcely a shilling
to call his own; and that every clerk, and every such person, begins by keeping a servant,
and that the latter is generally provided before the wife be installed: I am well aware of
all this; but knowing, from long and attentive observation, that it is the great bane of the
marriage life; the great cause of that penury, and of those numerous and tormenting embarrassments,
amidst which conjugal felicity can seldom long be kept alive, I give the advice, and state
the reasons on which it was founded.

156. In London, or near it, a maid servant cannot be kept at an expense so low as that of thirty
pounds a year; for, besides her wages, board and lodging, there must be a fire solely for her;
or she must sit with the husband and wife, hear every word that passes between them, and between
them and their friends; which will, of course, greatly add to the pleasures of their fire-side!
To keep her tongue still would be impossible, and, indeed, unreasonable; and if, as may frequently
happen, she be prettier than the wife, she will know how to give the suitable interpretation
to the looks which, to a next to a certainty, she will occasionally get from him, whom, as
it were in mockery, she calls by the name of 'master.' This is almost downright bigamy; but
this can never do; and, therefore, she must have a fire to herself. Besides the blaze of coals,
however, there is another sort of flame that she will inevitably covet. She will by no means
be sparing of the coals; but, well fed and well lodged, as she will be, whatever you may be,
she will naturally sigh for the fire of love, for which she carries in her bosom a match always
ready prepared. In plain language, you have a man to keep, a part, at least, of every week;
and the leg of lamb, which might have lasted you and your wife for three days, will, by this
gentleman's sighs, be borne away in one. Shut the door against this intruder; out she goes
herself; and, if she go empty-handed, she is no true Christian, or, at least, will not be looked
upon as such by the charitable friend at whose house she meets the longing soul, dying partly
with love and partly with hunger.

157. The cost, altogether, is nearer fifty pounds a year than thirty. How many thousands of
tradesmen and clerks, and the like, who might have passed through life without a single embarrassment,
have lived in continual trouble and fear, and found a premature grave, from this very cause,
and this cause alone! When I, on my return from America, in 1800, lived a short time in Saint
James's Street, following my habit of early rising, I used to see the servant maids, at almost
every house, dispensing charity at the expense of their masters, long before they, good men,
opened their eyes, who thus did deeds of benevolence, not only without boasting of them, but
without knowing of them. Meat, bread, cheese, butter, coals, candles; all came with equal freedom
from these liberal hands. I have observed the same, in my early walks and rides, in every part
of this great place and its environs. Where there is one servant it is worse than where there
are two or more; for, happily for their employers, they do not always agree. So that the oppression
is most heavy on those who are the least able to bear it: and particularly on clerk, and such
like people, whose wives seem to think, that, because the husband's work is of a genteel description,
they ought to live the life of ladies. Poor fellows! their work is not hard and rough, to be
sure; but, it is work, and work for many hours too, and painful enough; and as to their income,
it scarcely exceeds, on an average, the double, at any rate, of that of a journeyman carpenter,
bricklayer, or tailor.

158. Besides, the man and wife will live on cheaper diet and drink than a servant will live.
Thousands, who would never have had beer in their house, have it for the servant, who will
not live without it. However frugal your wife, her frugality is of little use, if she have
one of these inmates to provide for. Many a hundred thousand times has it happened that the
butcher and the butter-man have been applied to solely because there was a servant to satisfy.
You cannot, with this clog everlastingly attached to you, be frugal, if you would: you can
save nothing against the days of expense, which are, however, pretty sure to come. And why
should you bring into your house a trouble like this; an absolute annoyance; a something for
your wife to watch, to be a constraint upon her, to thwart her in her best intentions, to make
her uneasy, and to sour her temper? Why should you do this foolish thing? Merely to comply
with corrupt fashion; merely from false shame, and false and contemptible pride? If a young
man were, on his marriage, to find any difficulty in setting this ruinous fashion at defiance,
a very good way would be to count down to his wife, at the end of every week, the amount of
the expense of a servant for that week, and request her to deposit it in her drawer. In a short
time she would find the sum so large, that she would be frightened at the thoughts of a servant;
and would never dream of one again, except in case of absolute necessity, and then for as short
a time as possible.

159. But the wife may not be able to do all the work to be done in the house. Not able! A young
woman not able to cook and wash, and mend and make, and clean the house and make the bed for
one young man and herself, and that young man her husband too, who is quite willing (if he
be worth a straw) to put up with cold dinner, or with a crust; to get up and light her fire;
to do any thing that the mind can suggest to spare her labour, and to conduce to her convenience!
Not able to do this? Then, if she brought no fortune, and he had none, she ought not to have
been able to marry: and, let me tell you, young man, a small fortune would not put a servant-keeping
wife upon an equality with one who required no such inmate.

160. If, indeed, the work of a house were harder than a young woman could perform without pain,
or great fatigue; if it had a tendency to impair her health or deface her beauty; then you
might hesitate: but, it is not too hard, and it tends to preserve health, to keep the spirits
buoyant, and, of course, to preserve beauty. You often hear girls, while scrubbing or washing,
singing till they are out of breath; but never while they are at what they call working at
the needle. The American wives are most exemplary in this respect. They have none of that false
pride, which prevents thousands in England from doing that which interest, reason, and even
their own inclination would prompt them to do. They work, not from necessity; not from compulsion
of any sort; for their husbands are the most indulgent in the whole world. In the towns they
go to the market, and cheerfully carry home the result: in the country, they not only do the
work in the house, but extend their labours to the garden, plant and weed and hoe, and gather
and preserve the fruits and the herbs; and this, too, in a climate far from being so favourable
to labour as that of England; and they are amply repaid for these by those gratifications which
their excellent economy enables their husbands to bestow upon them, and which it is their universal
habit to do with a liberal hand.

161. But did I practise what I am here preaching? Aye, and to the full extent. Till I had a
second child, no servant ever entered my house, though well able to keep one; and never, in
my whole life, did I live in a house so clean, in such trim order, and never have I eaten or
drunk, or slept or dressed, in a manner so perfectly to my fancy, as I did then. I had a great
deal of business to attend to, that took me a great part of the day from home; but, whenever
I could spare a minute from business, the child was in my arms; I rendered the mother's labour
as light as I could; any bit of food satisfied me; when watching was necessary, we shared it
between us; and that famous GRAMMAR for teaching French people English, which has been for
thirty years, and still is, the great work of this kind, throughout all America, and in every
nation in Europe, was written by me, in hours not employed in business, and, in great part,
during my share of the night-watchings over a sick, and then only child, who, after lingering
many months, died in my arms.

162. This was the way that we went on: this was the way that we began the married life; and
surely, that which we did with pleasure no young couple, unendowed with fortune, ought to be
ashamed to do. But she may be ill; the time may be near at hand, or may have actually arrived,
when she must encounter that particular pain and danger of which you have been the happy cause!
Oh! that is quite another matter! And if you now exceed in care, in watchings over her, in
tender attention to all her wishes, in anxious efforts to quiet her fears; if you exceed in
pains and expense to procure her relief and secure her life; if you, in any of these, exceed
that which I would recommend, you must be romantic indeed! She deserves them all, and more
than all, ten thousand times told. And now it is that you feel the blessing conferred by her
economy. That heap of money, which might have been squandered on, or by, or in consequence
of, an useless servant, you now have in hand wherewith to procure an abundance of that skill
and that attendance of which she stands in absolute need; and she, when restored to you in
smiling health, has the just pride to reflect, that she may have owed her life and your happiness
to the effects of her industry.

163. It is the beginning that is every thing in this important case; and you will have, perhaps,
much to do to convince her, not that what you recommend is advantageous; not that it is right;
but to convince her that she can do it without sinking below the station that she ought to
maintain. She would cheerfully do it; but there are her next-door neighbours, who do not do
it, though, in all other respects, on a par with her. It is not laziness, but pernicious fashion,
that you will have to combat. But the truth is, that there ought to be no combat at all; this
important matter ought to be settled and fully agreed on beforehand. If she really love you,
and have common sense, she will not hesitate a moment; and if she be deficient in either of
these respects; and if you be so mad in love as to be unable to exist without her, it is better
to cease to exist at once, than to become the toiling and embarrassed slave of a wasting and
pillaging servant.

164. The next thing to be attended to is, your demeanor towards a young wife. As to oldish
ones, or widows, time and other things have, in most cases, blunted their feelings, and rendered
harsh or stern demeanor in the husband a matter not of heart-breaking consequence. But with
a young and inexperienced one, the case is very different; and you should bear in mind, that
the first frown that she receives from you is a dagger to her heart. Nature has so ordered
it, that men shall become less ardent in their passion after the wedding day; and that women
shall not. Their ardour increases rather than the contrary; and they are surprisingly quick-sighted
and inquisitive on this score. When the child comes, it divides this ardour with the father;
but until then you have it all; and if you have a mind to be happy, repay it with all your
soul. Let what may happen to put you out of humour with others, let nothing put you out of
humour with her. Let your words and looks and manners be just what they were before you called
her wife.

165. But now, and throughout your life, show your affection for her, and your admiration of
her, not in nonsensical compliment; not in picking up her handkerchief, or her glove, or in
carrying her fan or parasol; not, if you have the means, in hanging trinkets and baubles upon
her; not in making yourself a fool by winking at, and seeming pleased at, her foibles, or follies,
or faults; but show them by acts of real goodness towards her; prove by unequivocal deeds the
high value that you set on her health and life and peace of mind; let your praise of her go
to the full extent of her deserts, but let it be consistent with truth and with sense, and
such as to convince her of your sincerity. He who is the flatterer of his wife only prepares
her ears for the hyperbolical stuff of others. The kindest appellation that her Christian name
affords is the best you can use, especially before faces. An everlasting 'my dear' is but a
sorry compensation for a want of that sort of love that makes the husband cheerfully toil by
day, break his rest by night, endure all sorts of hardships, if the life or health of his wife
demand it. Let your deeds, and not your words, carry to her heart a daily and hourly confirmation
of the fact, that you value her health and life and happiness beyond all other things in the
world; and let this be manifest to her, particularly at those times when life is always more
or less in danger.

166. I began my young marriage days in and near Philadelphia. At one of those times to which
I have just alluded, in the middle of the burning hot month of July, I was greatly afraid of
fatal consequences to my wife for want of sleep, she not having, after the great danger was
over, had any sleep for more than forty-eight hours. All great cities, in hot countries, are,
I believe, full of dogs; and they, in the very hot weather, keep up, during the night, a horrible
barking and fighting and howling. Upon the particular occasion to which I am adverting, they
made a noise so terrible and so unremitted, that it was next to impossible that even a person
in full health and free from pain should obtain a minute's sleep. I was, about nine in the
evening, sitting by the bed: 'I do think,' said she, 'that I could go to sleep now, if it were
not for the dogs.' Down stairs I went, and out I sallied, in my shirt and trowsers, and without
shoes and stockings; and, going to a heap of stones lying beside the road, set to work upon
the dogs, going backward and forward, and keeping them at two or three hundred yards' distance
from the house. I walked thus the whole night, barefooted, lest the noise of my shoes might
possibly reach her ears; and I remember that the bricks of the causeway were, even in the night,
so hot as to be disagreeable to my feet. My exertions produced the desired effect: a sleep
of several hours was the consequence; and, at eight o'clock in the morning, off went I to a
day's business, which was to end at six in the evening.

167. Women are all patriots of the soil; and when her neighbours used to ask my wife whether
all English husbands were like hers, she boldly answered in the affirmative. I had business
to occupy the whole of my time, Sundays and weekdays, except sleeping hours; but I used to
make time to assist her in the taking care of her baby, and in all sorts of things: get up,
light her fire, boil her tea-kettle, carry her up warm water in cold weather, take the child
while she dressed herself and got the breakfast ready, then breakfast, get her in water and
wood for the day, then dress myself neatly, and sally forth to my business. The moment that
was over I used to hasten back to her again; and I no more thought of spending a moment away
from her, unless business compelled me, than I thought of quitting the country and going to
sea. The thunder and lightning are tremendous in America, compared with what they are in England.
My wife was, at one time, very much afraid of thunder and lightning; and as is the feeling
of all such women, and, indeed, all men too, she wanted company, and particularly her husband,
in those times of danger. I knew well, of course, that my presence would not diminish the danger;
but, be I at what I might, if within reach of home, I used to quit my business and hasten to
her, the moment I perceived a thunder storm approaching. Scores of miles have I, first and
last, run on this errand, in the streets of Philadelphia! The Frenchmen, who were my scholars,
used to laugh at me exceedingly on this account; and sometimes, when I was making an appointment
with them, they would say, with a smile and a bow, 'Sauve la tonnerre toujours, Monsieur Cobbett.'

168. I never dangled about at the heels of my wife; seldom, very seldom, ever walked out, as
it is called, with her; I never 'went a walking' in the whole course of my life; never went
to walk without having some object in view other than the walk; and, as I never could walk
at a slow pace, it would have been hard work for her to keep up with me; so that, in the nearly
forty years of our married life, we have not walked out together, perhaps, twenty times. I
hate a dangler, who is more like a footman than a husband. It is very cheap to be kind in trifles;
but that which rivets the affections is not to be purchased with money. The great thing of
all, however, is to prove your anxiety at those times of peril to her, and for which times
you, nevertheless, wish. Upon those occasions I was never from home, be the necessity for it
ever so great: it was my rule, that every thing must give way to that. In the year 1809, some
English local militiamen were flogged, in the Isle of Ely, in England, under a guard of Hanoverians,
then stationed in England. I, reading an account of this in a London newspaper, called the
COURIER, expressed my indignation at it in such terms as it became an Englishman to do. The
Attorney General, Gibbs, was set on upon me; he harassed me for nearly a year, then brought
me to trial, and I was, by Ellenborough, Grose, Le Blanc, and Bailey, sentenced to two years'
imprisonment in Newgate, to pay a fine to the king of a thousand pounds, and to be held in
heavy bail for seven years after the expiration of the imprisonment! Every one regarded it
as a sentence of death. I lived in the country at the time, seventy miles from London; I had
a farm on my hands; I had a family of small children, amongst whom I had constantly lived;
I had a most anxious and devoted wife, who was, too, in that state, which rendered the separation
more painful ten-fold. I was put into a place amongst felons, from which I had to rescue myself
at the price of twelve guineas a week for the whole of the two years. The King, poor man! was,
at the close of my imprisonment, not in a condition to receive the thousand pounds; but his
son, the present king, punctually received it 'in his name and behalf;' and he keeps it still.

169. The sentence, though it proved not to be one of death, was, in effect, one of ruin, as
far as then-possessed property went. But this really appeared as nothing, compared with the
circumstance, that I must now have a child born in a felons' jail, or be absent from the scene
at the time of the birth. My wife, who had come to see me for the last time previous to her
lying-in, perceiving my deep dejection at the approach of her departure for Botley, resolved
not to go; and actually went and took a lodging as near to Newgate as she could find one, in
order that the communication between us might be as speedy as possible; and in order that I
might see the doctor, and receive assurances from him relative to her state. The nearest lodging
that she could find was in Skinner-street, at the corner of a street leading to Smithfield.
So that there she was, amidst the incessant rattle of coaches and butchers' carts, and the
noise of cattle, dogs, and bawling men; instead of being in a quiet and commodious country-house,
with neighbours and servants and every thing necessary about her. Yet, so great is the power
of the mind in such cases, she, though the circumstances proved uncommonly perilous, and were
attended with the loss of the child, bore her sufferings with the greatest composure, because,
at any minute she could send a message to, and hear from, me. If she had gone to Botley, leaving
me in that state of anxiety in which she saw me, I am satisfied that she would have died; and
that event taking place at such a distance from me, how was I to contemplate her corpse, surrounded
by her distracted children, and to have escaped death, or madness, myself? If such was not
the effect of this merciless act of the government towards me, that amiable body may be well
assured that I have taken and recorded the will for the deed, and that as such it will live
in my memory as long as that memory shall last.

170. I make no apology for this account of my own conduct, because example is better than precept,
and because I believe that my example may have weight with many thousands, as it has had in
respect to early rising, abstinence, sobriety, industry, and mercy towards the poor. It is
not, then, dangling about after a wife; it is not the loading her with baubles and trinkets;
it is not the jaunting of her about from show to show, and from what is called pleasure to
pleasure. It is none of these that endears you to her: it is the adherence to that part of
the promise you have made her: 'With my body I thee worship;' that is to say, respect and honour
by personal attention and acts of affection. And remember, that the greatest possible proof
that you can give of real and solid affection is to give her your time, when not wanted in
matters of business; when not wanted for the discharge of some duty, either towards the public
or towards private persons. Amongst duties of this sort, we must, of course, in some ranks
and circumstances of life, include the intercourse amongst friends and neighbours, which may
frequently and reasonably call the husband from his home: but what are we to think of the husband
who is in the habit of leaving his own fire-side, after the business of the day is over, and
seeking promiscuous companions in the ale or the coffee house? I am told that, in France, it
is rare to meet with a husband who does not spend every evening of his life in what is called
a caffé; that is to say, a place for no other purpose than that of gossipping, drinking and
gaming. And it is with great sorrow that I acknowledge that many English husbands indulge too
much in a similar habit. Drinking clubs, smoking clubs, singing clubs, clubs of odd-fellows,
whist clubs, sotting clubs: these are inexcusable, they are censurable, they are at once foolish
and wicked, even in single men; what must they be, then, in husbands; and how are they to answer,
not only to their wives, but to their children, for this profligate abandonment of their homes;
this breach of their solemn vow made to the former, this evil example to the latter?

171. Innumerable are the miseries that spring from this cause. The expense is, in the first
place, very considerable. I much question whether, amongst tradesmen, a shilling a night pays
the average score; and that, too, for that which is really worth nothing at all, and cannot,
even by possibility, be attended with any one single advantage, however small. Fifteen pounds
a year thus thrown away, would amount, in the course of a tradesman's life, to a decent fortune
for a child. Then there is the injury to health from these night adventures; there are the
quarrels, there is the vicious habit of loose and filthy talk; there are the slanders and the
back-bitings; there is the admiration of contemptible wit, and there are the scoffings at all
that is sober and serious.

172. And does the husband who thus abandons his wife and children imagine that she will not,
in some degree at least, follow his example? If he do, he is very much deceived. If she imitate
him even in drinking, he has no great reason to complain; and then the cost may be two shillings
the night instead of one, equal in amount to the cost of all the bread wanted in the family,
while the baker's bill is, perhaps, unpaid. Here are the slanderings, too, going on at home;
for, while the husbands are assembled, it would be hard if the wives were not to do the same;
and the very least that is to be expected is, that the tea-pot should keep pace with the porter-pot
or grog-glass. Hence crowds of female acquaintances and intruders, and all the consequent and
inevitable squabbles which form no small part of the torment of the life of man.

173. If you have servants, they know to a moment the time of your absence; and they regulate
their proceedings accordingly. 'Like master like man,' is an old and true proverb; and it is
natural, if not just, that it should be thus; for it would be unjust if the careless and neglectful
sot were served as faithfully as the vigilant, attentive and sober man. Late hours, cards and
dice, are amongst the consequences of the master's absence; and why not, seeing that he is
setting the example? Fire, candle, profligate visitants, expences, losses, children ruined
in habits and morals, and, in short, a train of evils hardly to be enumerated, arise from this
most vicious habit of the master spending his leisure time from home. But beyond all the rest
is the ill-treatment of the wife. When left to ourselves we all seek the company that we like
best; the company in which we take the most delight: and therefore every husband, be his state
of life what it may, who spends his leisure time, or who, at least, is in the habit of doing
it, in company other than that of his wife and family, tells her and them, as plainly by deeds
as he could possibly do by words, that he takes more delight in other company than in theirs.
Children repay this with disregard for their father; but to a wife of any sensibility, it is
either a dagger to her heart or an incitement to revenge, and revenge, too, of a species which
a young woman will seldom be long in want of the means to gratify. In conclusion of these remarks
respecting absentee husbands, I would recommend all those who are prone to, or likely to fall
into, the practice, to remember the words of Mrs. SULLEN, in the BEAUX' STRATAGEM: 'My husband,'
says she, addressing a footman whom she had taken as a paramour, 'comes reeling home at midnight,
tumbles in beside me as a salmon flounces in a net, oversets the economy of my bed, belches
the fumes of his drink in my face, then twists himself round, leaving me half naked, and listening
till morning to that tuneful nightingale, his nose.' It is at least forty-three years since
I read the BEAUX' STRATAGEM, and I now quote from memory; but the passage has always occurred
to me whenever I have seen a sottish husband; and though that species of revenge, for the taking
of which the lady made this apology, was carrying the thing too far, yet I am ready to confess,
that if I had to sit in judgment on her for taking even this revenge, my sentence would be
very lenient; for what right has such a husband to expect fidelity? He has broken his vow;
and by what rule of right has she to be bound to hers? She thought that she was marrying a
man; and she finds that she was married to a beast. He has, indeed, committed no offence that
the law of the land can reach; but he has violated the vow by which he obtained possession
of her person; and, in the eye of justice, the compact between them is dissolved.

174. The way to avoid the sad consequences of which I have been speaking is to begin well:
many a man has become a sottish husband, and brought a family to ruin, without being sottishly
inclined, and without liking the gossip of the ale or coffee house. It is by slow degrees that
the mischief is done. He is first inveigled, and, in time, he really likes the thing; and,
when arrived at that point, he is incurable. Let him resolve, from the very first, never to
spend an hour from home, unless business, or, at least, some necessary and rational purpose
demand it. Where ought he to be, but with the person whom he himself hath chosen to be his
partner for life, and the mother of his children? What other company ought he to deem so good
and so fitting as this? With whom else can he so pleasantly spend his hours of leisure and
relaxation? Besides, if he quit her to seek company more agreeable, is not she set at large
by that act of his? What justice is there in confining her at home without any company at all,
while he rambles forth in search of company more gay than he finds at home?

175. Let the young married man try the thing; let him resolve not to be seduced from his home;
let him never go, in one single instance, unnecessarily from his own fire-side. Habit is a
powerful thing; and if he begin right, the pleasure that he will derive from it will induce
him to continue right. This is not being 'tied to the apron-strings,' which means quite another
matter, as I shall show by-and-by. It is being at the husband's place, whether he have children
or not. And is there any want of matter for conversation between a man and his wife? Why not
talk of the daily occurrences to her, as well as to any body else; and especially to a company
of tippling and noisy men? If you excuse yourself by saying that you go to read the newspaper,
I answer, buy the newspaper, if you must read it: the cost is not half of what you spend per
day at the pot-house; and then you have it your own, and may read it at your leisure, and your
wife can read it as well as yourself, if read it you must. And, in short, what must that man
be made of, who does not prefer sitting by his own fire-side with his wife and children, reading
to them, or hearing them read, to hearing the gabble and balderdash of a club or a pot-house
company!

176. Men must frequently be from home at all hours of the day and night. Sailors, soldiers,
merchants, all men out of the common track of labour, and even some in the very lowest walks,
are sometimes compelled by their affairs, or by circumstances, to be from their homes. But
what I protest against is, the habit of spending leisure hours from home, and near to it; and
doing this without any necessity, and by choice: liking the next door, or any house in the
same street, better than your own. When absent from necessity, there is no wound given to the
heart of the wife; she concludes that you would be with her if you could, and that satisfies;
she laments the absence, but submits to it without complaining. Yet, in these cases, her feelings
ought to be consulted as much as possible; she ought to be fully apprised of the probable duration
of the absence, and of the time of return; and if these be dependent on circumstances, those
circumstances ought to be fully stated; for you have no right to keep her mind upon the rack,
when you have it in your power to put it in a state of ease. Few men have been more frequently
taken from home by business, or by a necessity of some sort, than I have; and I can positively
assert, that, as to my return, I never once disappointed my wife in the whole course of our
married life. If the time of return was contingent, I never failed to keep her informed from
day to day: if the time was fixed, or when it became fixed, my arrival was as sure as my life.
Going from London to Botley, once, with Mr. FINNERTY, whose name I can never pronounce without
an expression of my regard for his memory, we stopped at ALTON, to dine with a friend, who,
delighted with Finnerty's talk, as every body else was, kept us till ten or eleven o'clock,
and was proceeding to the other bottle, when I put in my protest, saying, 'We must go, my wife
will be frightened.' 'Blood, man,' said Finnerty, 'you do not mean to go home to-night!' I
told him I did; and then sent my son, who was with us, to order out the post-chaise. We had
twenty-three miles to go, during which we debated the question, whether Mrs. COBBETT would
be up to receive us, I contending for the affirmative, and he for the negative. She was up,
and had a nice fire for us to sit down at. She had not committed the matter to a servant: her
servants and children were all in bed; and she was up, to perform the duty of receiving her
husband and his friend. 'You did not expect him?' said Finnerty. 'To be sure I did,' said she;
'he never disappointed me in his life.'

177. Now, if all young men knew how much value women set upon this species of fidelity, there
would be fewer unhappy couples than there are. If men have appointments with lords, they never
dream of breaking them; and I can assure them that wives are as sensitive in this respect as
lords. I had seen many instances of conjugal unhappiness arising out of that carelessness which
left wives in a state of uncertainty as to the movements of their husbands; and I took care,
from the very outset, to guard against it. For no man has a right to sport with the feelings
of any innocent person whatever, and particularly with those of one who has committed her happiness
to his hands. The truth is, that men in general look upon women as having no feelings different
from their own; and they know that they themselves would regard such disappointments as nothing.
But this is a great mistake: women feel more acutely than men; their love is more ardent, more
pure, more lasting, and they are more frank and sincere in the utterance of their feelings.
They ought to be treated with due consideration had for all their amiable qualities and all
their weaknesses, and nothing by which their minds are affected ought to be deemed a trifle.

178. When we consider what a young woman gives up on her wedding day; she makes a surrender,
an absolute surrender, of her liberty, for the joint lives of the parties; she gives the husband
the absolute right of causing her to live in what place, and in what manner and what society,
he pleases; she gives him the power to take from her, and to use, for his own purposes, all
her goods, unless reserved by some legal instrument; and, above all, she surrenders to him
her person. Then, when we consider the pains which they endure for us, and the large share
of all the anxious parental cares that fall to their lot; when we consider their devotion to
us, and how unshaken their affection remains in our ailments, even though the most tedious
and disgusting; when we consider the offices that they perform, and cheerfully perform, for
us, when, were we left to one another, we should perish from neglect; when we consider their
devotion to their children, how evidently they love them better, in numerous instances, than
their own lives; when we consider these things, how can a just man think any thing a trifle
that affects their happiness? I was once going, in my gig, up the hill, in the village of FRANKFORD,
near Philadelphia, when a little girl, about two years old, who had toddled away from a small
house, was lying basking in the sun, in the middle of the road. About two hundred yards before
I got to the child, the teams, five big horses in each, of three wagons, the drivers of which
had stopped to drink at a tavern on the brow of the hill, started off, and came, nearly abreast,
galloping down the road. I got my gig off the road as speedily as I could; but expected to
see the poor child crushed to pieces. A young man, a journeyman carpenter, who was shingling
a shed by the side of the road, seeing the child, and seeing the danger, though a stranger
to the parents, jumped from the top of the shed, ran into the road, and snatched up the child,
from scarcely an inch before the hoof of the leading horse. The horse's leg knocked him down;
but he, catching the child by its clothes, flung it back, out of the way of the other horses,
and saved himself by rolling back with surprising agility. The mother of the child, who had,
apparently, been washing, seeing the teams coming, and seeing the situation of the child, rushed
out, and catching up the child, just as the carpenter had flung it back, and hugging it in
her arms, uttered a shriek such as I never heard before, never heard since, and, I hope, shall
never hear again; and then she dropped down, as if perfectly dead! By the application of the
usual means, she was restored, however, in a little while; and I, being about to depart, asked
the carpenter if he were a married man, and whether he were a relation of the parents of the
child. He said he was neither: 'Well, then,' said I, 'you merit the gratitude of every father
and mother in the world, and I will show mine, by giving you what I have,' pulling out the
nine or ten dollars that I had in my pocket. 'No; I thank you, Sir,' said he: 'I have only
done what it was my duty to do.'

179. Bravery, disinterestedness, and maternal affection surpassing these, it is impossible
to imagine. The mother was going right in amongst the feet of these powerful and wild horses,
and amongst the wheels of the wagons. She had no thought for herself; no feeling of fear for
her own life; her shriek was the sound of inexpressible joy; joy too great for her to support
herself under. Perhaps ninety-nine mothers out of every hundred would have acted the same part,
under similar circumstances. There are, comparatively, very few women not replete with maternal
love; and, by-the-by, take you care, if you meet with a girl who 'is not fond of children,'
not to marry her by any means. Some few there are who even make a boast that they 'cannot bear
children,' that is, cannot endure them. I never knew a man that was good for much who had a
dislike to little children; and I never knew a woman of that taste who was good for any thing
at all. I have seen a few such in the course of my life, and I have never wished to see one
of them a second time.

180. Being fond of little children argues no effeminacy in a man, but, as far as my observation
has gone, the contrary. A regiment of soldiers presents no bad school wherein to study character.
Soldiers have leisure, too, to play with children, as well as with 'women and dogs,' for which
the proverb has made them famed. And I have never observed that effeminacy was at all the marked
companion of fondness for little children. This fondness manifestly arises from a compassionate
feeling towards creatures that are helpless, and that must be innocent. For my own part, how
many days, how many months, all put together, have I spent with babies in my arms! My time,
when at home, and when babies were going on, was chiefly divided between the pen and the baby.
I have fed them and put them to sleep hundreds of times, though there were servants to whom
the task might have been transferred. Yet, I have not been effeminate; I have not been idle;
I have not been a waster of time; but I should have been all these if I had disliked babies,
and had liked the porter pot and the grog glass.

181. It is an old saying, 'Praise the child, and you make love to the mother;' and it is surprising
how far this will go. To a fond mother you can do nothing so pleasing as to praise the baby,
and, the younger it is, the more she values the compliment. Say fine things to her, and take
no notice of her baby, and she will despise you. I have often beheld this, in many women, with
great admiration; and it is a thing that no husband ought to overlook; for if the wife wish
her child to be admired by others, what must be the ardour of her wishes with regard to his
admiration. There was a drunken dog of a Norfolk man in our regiment, who came from Thetford,
I recollect, who used to say, that his wife would forgive him for spending all the pay, and
the washing money into the bargain, 'if he would but kiss her ugly brat, and say it was pretty.'
Now, though this was a very profligate fellow, he had philosophy in him; and certain it is,
that there is nothing worthy of the name of conjugal happiness, unless the husband clearly
evince that he is fond of his children, and that, too, from their very birth.

182. But though all the aforementioned considerations demand from us the kindest possible treatment
of a wife, the husband is to expect dutiful deportment at her hands. He is not to be her slave;
he is not to yield to her against the dictates of his own reason and judgment; it is her duty
to obey all his lawful commands; and, if she have sense, she will perceive that it is a disgrace
to herself to acknowledge, as a husband, a thing over which she has an absolute controul. It
should always be recollected that you are the party whose body must, if any do, lie in jail
for debt, and for debts of her contracting, too, as well as of your own contracting. Over her
tongue, too, you possess a clear right to exercise, if necessary, some controul; for if she
use it in an unjustifiable manner, it is against you, and not against her, that the law enables,
and justly enables, the slandered party to proceed; which would be monstrously unjust, if the
law were not founded on the right which the husband has to control, if necessary, the tongue
of the wife, to compel her to keep it within the limits prescribed by the law. A charming,
a most enchanting, life, indeed, would be that of a husband, if he were bound to cohabit with
and to maintain one for all the debts and all the slanders of whom he was answerable, and over
whose conduct he possessed no compulsory controul.

183. Of the remedies in the case of really bad wives, squanderers, drunkards, adultresses,
I shall speak further on; it being the habit of us all to put off to the last possible moment
the performance of disagreeable duties. But, far short of these vices, there are several faults
in a wife that may, if not cured in time, lead to great unhappiness, great injury to the interests
as well as character of her husband and children; and which faults it is, therefore, the husband's
duty to correct. A wife may be chaste, sober in the full sense of the word, industrious, cleanly,
frugal, and may be devoted to her husband and her children to a degree so enchanting as to
make them all love her beyond the power of words to express. And yet she may, partly under
the influence of her natural disposition, and partly encouraged by the great and constant homage
paid to her virtues, and presuming, too, on the pain with which she knows her will would be
thwarted; she may, with all her virtues, be thus led to a bold interference in the affairs
of her husband; may attempt to dictate to him in matters quite out of her own sphere; and,
in the pursuit of the gratification of her love of power and command, may wholly overlook the
acts of folly or injustice which she would induce her husband to commit, and overlook, too,
the contemptible thing that she is making the man whom it is her duty to honour and obey, and
the abasement of whom cannot take place without some portion of degradation falling upon herself.
At the time when 'THE BOOK' came out, relative to the late ill-treated QUEEN CAROLINE, I was
talking upon the subject, one day, with a parson, who had not read the Book, but who, as was
the fashion with all those who were looking up to the government, condemned the Queen unheard.
'Now,' said I, 'be not so shamefully unjust; but get the book, read it, and then give your
judgment.'--'Indeed,' said his wife, who was sitting by, 'but HE SHA'N'T,' pronouncing the
words sha'n't with an emphasis and a voice tremendously masculine. 'Oh!' said I, 'if he SHA'N'T,
that is another matter; but, if he sha'n't read, if he sha'n't hear the evidence, he sha'n't
be looked upon, by me, as a just judge; and I sha'n't regard him, in future, as having any
opinion of his own in any thing.' All which the husband, the poor henpecked thing, heard without
a word escaping his lips.

184. A husband thus under command, is the most contemptible of God's creatures. Nobody can
place reliance on him for any thing; whether in the capacity of employer or employed, you are
never sure of him. No bargain is firm, no engagement sacred, with such a man. Feeble as a reed
before the boisterous she-commander, he is bold in injustice towards those whom it pleases
her caprice to mark out for vengeance. In the eyes of neighbours, for friends such a man cannot
have, in the eyes of servants, in the eyes of even the beggars at his door, such a man is a
mean and despicable creature, though he may roll in wealth and possess great talents into the
bargain. Such a man has, in fact, no property; he has nothing that he can rightly call his
own; he is a beggarly dependent under his own roof; and if he have any thing of the man left
in him, and if there be rope or river near, the sooner he betakes him to the one or the other
the better. How many men, how many families, have I known brought to utter ruin only by the
husband suffering himself to be subdued, to be cowed down, to be held in fear, of even a virtuous
wife! What, then, must be the lot of him who submits to a commander who, at the same time,
sets all virtue at defiance!

185. Women are a sisterhood. They make common cause in behalf of the sex; and, indeed, this
is natural enough, when we consider the vast power that the law gives us over them. The law
is for us, and they combine, wherever they can, to mitigate its effects. This is perfectly
natural, and, to a certain extent, laudable, evincing fellow-feeling and public spirit: but
when carried to the length of 'he sha'n't,' it is despotism on the one side and slavery on
the other. Watch, therefore, the incipient steps of encroachment; and they come on so slowly,
so softly, that you must be sharp-sighted if you perceive them; but the moment you do perceive
them: your love will blind for too long a time; but the moment you do perceive them, put at
once an effectual stop to their progress. Never mind the pain that it may give you: a day of
pain at this time will spare you years of pain in time to come. Many a man has been miserable,
and made his wife miserable too, for a score or two of years, only for want of resolution to
bear one day of pain: and it is a great deal to bear; it is a great deal to do to thwart the
desire of one whom you so dearly love, and whose virtues daily render her more and more dear
to you. But (and this is one of the most admirable of the mother's traits) as she herself will,
while the tears stream from her eyes, force the nauseous medicine down the throat of her child,
whose every cry is a dagger to her heart; as she herself has the courage to do this for the
sake of her child, why should you flinch from the performance of a still more important and
more sacred duty towards herself, as well as towards you and your children?

186. Am I recommending tyranny? Am I recommending disregard of the wife's opinions and wishes?
Am I recommending a reserve towards her that would seem to say that she was not trust-worthy,
or not a party interested in her husband's affairs? By no means: on the contrary, though I
would keep any thing disagreeable from her, I should not enjoy the prospect of good without
making her a participator. But reason says, and God has said, that it is the duty of wives
to be obedient to their husbands; and the very nature of things prescribes that there must
be a head of every house, and an undivided authority. And then it is so clearly just that the
authority should rest with him on whose head rests the whole responsibility, that a woman,
when patiently reasoned with on the subject, must be a virago in her very nature not to submit
with docility to the terms of her marriage vow.

187. There are, in almost every considerable neighbourhood, a little squadron of she-commanders,
generally the youngish wives of old or weak-minded men, and generally without children. These
are the tutoresses of the young wives of the vicinage; they, in virtue of their experience,
not only school the wives, but scold the husbands; they teach the former how to encroach and
the latter how to yield: so that if you suffer this to go quietly on, you are soon under the
care of a comité as completely as if you were insane. You want no comité: reason, law, religion,
the marriage vow; all these have made you head, have given you full power to rule your family,
and if you give up your right, you deserve the contempt that assuredly awaits you, and also
the ruin that is, in all probability, your doom.

188. Taking it for granted that you will not suffer more than a second or third session of
the female comité, let me say a word or two about the conduct of men in deciding between the
conflicting opinions of husbands and wives. When a wife has a point to carry, and finds herself
hard pushed, or when she thinks it necessary to call to her aid all the force she can possibly
muster, one of her resources is, the vote on her side of all her husband's visiting friends.
'My husband thinks so and so, and I think so and so; now, Mr. Tomkins, don't you think I am
right?' To be sure he does; and so does Mr. Jenkins, and so does Wilkins, and so does Mr. Dickins,
and you would swear that they were all her kins. Now this is very foolish, to say the least
of it. None of these complaisant kins would like this in their own case. It is the fashion
to say aye to all that a woman asserts, or contends for, especially in contradiction to her
husband; and a very pernicious fashion it is. It is, in fact, not to pay her a compliment worthy
of acceptance, but to treat her as an empty and conceited fool; and no sensible woman will,
except from mere inadvertence, make the appeal. This fashion, however, foolish and contemptible
as it is in itself, is attended, very frequently, with serious consequences. Backed by the
opinions of her husband's friends, the wife returns to the charge with redoubled vigour and
obstinacy; and if you do not yield, ten to one but a quarrel is the result; or, at least, something
approaching towards it. A gentleman at whose house I was, about five years ago, was about to
take a farm for his eldest son, who was a very fine young man, about eighteen years old. The
mother, who was as virtuous and as sensible a woman as I have ever known, wished him to be
'in the law.' There were six or eight intimate friends present, and all unhesitatingly joined
the lady, thinking it a pity that HARRY, who had had 'such a good education,' should be buried
in a farm-house. 'And don't you think so too, Mr. Cobbett,' said the lady, with great earnestness.
'Indeed, Ma'am,' said I, 'I should think it very great presumption in me to offer any opinion
at all, and especially in opposition to the known decision of the father, who is the best judge,
and the only rightful judge, in such a case.' This was a very sensible and well-behaved woman,
and I still respect her very highly; but I could perceive that I instantly dropped out of her
good graces. Harry, however, I was glad to hear, went 'to be buried in the farm-house.'

189. 'A house divided against itself,' or, rather, in itself, 'cannot stand;' and it is divided
against itself if there be a divided authority. The wife ought to be heard, and patiently heard;
she ought to be reasoned with, and, if possible, convinced; but if, after all endeavours in
this way, she remain opposed to the husband's opinion, his will must be obeyed; or he, at once,
becomes nothing; she is, in fact, the master, and he is nothing but an insignificant inmate.
As to matters of little comparative moment; as to what shall be for dinner; as to how the house
shall be furnished; as to the management of the house and of menial servants; as to these matters,
and many others, the wife may have her way without any danger; but when the questions are,
what is to be the calling to be pursued; what is to be the place of residence; what is to be
the style of living and scale of expence; what is to be done with property; what the manner
and place of educating children; what is to be their calling or state of life; who are to be
employed or entrusted by the husband; what are the principles that he is to adopt as to public
matters; whom he is to have for coadjutors or friends; all these must be left solely to the
husband; in all these he must have his will; or there never can be any harmony in the family.

190. Nevertheless, in some of these concerns, wives should be heard with a great deal of attention,
especially in the affairs of choosing your male acquaintances and friends and associates. Women
are more quick-sighted than men; they are less disposed to confide in persons upon a first
acquaintance; they are more suspicious as to motives; they are less liable to be deceived by
professions and protestations; they watch words with a more scrutinizing ear, and looks with
a keener eye; and, making due allowance for their prejudices in particular cases, their opinions
and remonstrances, with regard to matters of this sort, ought not to be set at naught without
great deliberation. LOUVET, one of the Brissotins, who fled for their lives in the time of
ROBESPIERRE; this LOUVET, in his narrative, entitled 'Mes Perils' and which I read, for the
first time, to divert my mind from the perils of the yellow-fever, in Philadelphia, but with
which I was so captivated as to have read it many times since; this writer, giving an account
of his wonderful dangers and escapes, relates, that being on his way to Paris from the vicinity
of Bordeaux, and having no regular passport, fell lame, but finally crept on to a miserable
pot-house, in a small town in the Limosin. The landlord questioned him with regard to who and
what he was and whence he came and was satisfied with his answers. But the landlady, who had
looked sharply at him on his arrival, whispered a little boy, who ran away, and quickly returned
with the mayor of the town. LOUVET soon discovered that there was no danger in the mayor, who
could not decipher his forged passport, and who, being well plied with wine, wanted to hear
no more of the matter. The landlady, perceiving this, slipped out and brought a couple of aldermen,
who asked to see the passport. 'O, yes; but drink first.' Then there was a laughing story to
tell over again, at the request of the half-drunken mayor; then a laughing and more drinking;
the passport in LOUVET'S hand, but never opened, and, while another toast was drinking, the
passport slid back quietly into the pocket; the woman looking furious all the while. At last,
the mayor, the aldermen, and the landlord, all nearly drunk, shook hands with LOUVET, and wished
him a good journey, swore he was a true sans culotte; but, he says, that the 'sharp-sighted
woman, who was to be deceived by none of his stories or professions, saw him get off with deep
and manifest disappointment and chagrin.' I have thought of this many times since, when I have
had occasion to witness the quick-sightedness and penetration of women. The same quality that
makes them, as they notoriously are, more quick in discovering expedients in cases of difficulty,
makes them more apt to penetrate into motives and character.

191. I now come to a matter of the greatest possible importance; namely, that great troubler
of the married state, that great bane of families, JEALOUSY; and I shall first speak of jealousy
in the wife. This is always an unfortunate thing, and sometimes fatal. Yet, if there be a great
propensity towards it, it is very difficult to be prevented. One thing, however, every husband
can do in the way of prevention; and that is, to give no ground for it. And here, it is not
sufficient that he strictly adhere to his marriage vow; he ought further to abstain from every
art, however free from guilt, calculated to awaken the slightest degree of suspicion in a mind,
the peace of which he is bound by every tie of justice and humanity not to disturb, or, if
he can avoid it, to suffer it to be disturbed by others. A woman that is very fond of her husband,
and this is the case with nine-tenths of English and American women, does not like to share
with another any, even the smallest portion, not only of his affection, but of his assiduities
and applause; and, as the bestowing of them on another, and receiving payment in kind, can
serve no purpose other than of gratifying one's vanity, they ought to be abstained from, and
especially if the gratification be to be purchased with even the chance of exciting uneasiness
in her, whom it is your sacred duty to make as happy as you can.

192. For about two or three years after I was married, I, retaining some of my military manners,
used, both in France and America, to romp most famously with the girls that came in my way;
till one day, at Philadelphia, my wife said to me, in a very gentle manner, 'Don't do that:
I do not like it.' That was quite enough: I had never thought on the subject before: one hair
of her head was more dear to me than all the other women in the world, and this I knew that
she knew; but I now saw that this was not all that she had a right to from me; I saw, that
she had the further claim upon me that I should abstain from every thing that might induce
others to believe that there was any other woman for whom, even if I were at liberty, I had
any affection. I beseech young married men to bear this in mind; for, on some trifle of this
sort, the happiness or misery of a long life frequently turns. If the mind of a wife be disturbed
on this score, every possible means ought to be used to restore it to peace; and though her
suspicions be perfectly groundless; though they be wild as the dreams of madmen; though they
may present a mixture of the furious and the ridiculous, still they are to be treated with
the greatest lenity and tenderness; and if, after all, you fail, the frailty is to be lamented
as a misfortune, and not punished as a fault, seeing that it must have its foundation in a
feeling towards you, which it would be the basest of ingratitude, and the most ferocious of
cruelty, to repay by harshness of any description.

193. As to those husbands who make the unjust suspicions of their wives a justification for
making those suspicions just; as to such as can make a sport of such suspicions, rather brag
of them than otherwise, and endeavour to aggravate rather than assuage them; as to such I have
nothing to say, they being far without the scope of any advice that I can offer. But to such
as are not of this description, I have a remark or two to offer with respect to measures of
prevention.

194. And, first, I never could see the sense of its being a piece of etiquette, a sort of mark
of good breeding, to make it a rule that man and wife are not to sit side by side in a mixed
company; that if a party walk out, the wife is to give her arm to some other than her husband;
that if there be any other hand near, his is not to help to a seat or into a carriage. I never
could see the sense of this; but I have always seen the nonsense of it plainly enough; it is,
in short, amongst many other foolish and mischievous things that we do in aping the manners
of those whose riches (frequently ill-gotten) and whose power embolden them to set, with impunity,
pernicious examples; and to their examples this nation owes more of its degradation in morals
than to any other source. The truth is, that this is a piece of false refinement: it, being
interpreted, means, that so free are the parties from a liability to suspicion, so innately
virtuous and pure are they, that each man can safely trust his wife with another man, and each
woman her husband with another woman. But this piece of false refinement, like all others,
overshoots its mark; it says too much; for it says that the parties have lewd thoughts in their
minds. This is not the fact, with regard to people in general; but it must have been the origin
of this set of consummately ridiculous and contemptible rules.

195. Now I would advise a young man, especially if he have a pretty wife, not to commit her
unnecessarily to the care of any other man; not to be separated from her in this studious and
ceremonious manner; and not to be ashamed to prefer her company and conversation to that of
any other woman. I never could discover any good-breeding in setting another man, almost expressly,
to poke his nose up in the face of my wife, and talk nonsense to her; for, in such cases, nonsense
it generally is. It is not a thing of much consequence, to be sure; but when the wife is young,
especially, it is not seemly, at any rate, and it cannot possibly lead to any good, though
it may not lead to any great evil. And, on the other hand, you may be quite sure that, whatever
she may seem to think of the matter, she will not like you the better for your attentions of
this sort to other women, especially if they be young and handsome: and as this species of
fashionable nonsense can do you no good, why gratify your love of talk, or the vanity of any
woman, at even the risk of exciting uneasiness in that mind of which it is your most sacred
duty to preserve, if you can, the uninterrupted tranquillity.

196. The truth is, that the greatest security of all against jealousy in a wife is to show,
to prove, by your acts, by your words also, but more especially by your acts, that you prefer
her to all the world; and, as I said before, I know of no act that is, in this respect, equal
to spending in her company every moment of your leisure time. Every body knows, and young wives
better than any body else, that people, who can choose, will be where they like best to be,
and that they will be along with those whose company they best like. The matter is very plain,
then, and I do beseech you to bear it in mind. Nor do I see the use, or sense, of keeping a
great deal of company, as it is called. What company can a young man and woman want more than
their two selves, and their children, if they have any? If here be not company enough, it is
but a sad affair. The pernicious cards are brought forth by the company-keeping, the rival
expenses, the sittings up late at night, the seeing of 'the ladies home,' and a thousand squabbles
and disagreeable consequences. But, the great thing of all is, that this hankering after company,
proves, clearly proves, that you want something beyond the society of your wife; and that she
is sure to feel most acutely: the bare fact contains an imputation against her, and it is pretty
sure to lay the foundation of jealousy, or of something still worse.

197. If acts of kindness in you are necessary in all cases, they are especially so in cases
of her illness, from whatever cause arising. I will not suppose myself to be addressing any
husband capable of being unconcerned while his wife's life is in the most distant danger from
illness, though it has been my very great mortification to know in my life time, two or three
brutes of this description; but, far short of this degree of brutality, a great deal of fault
may be committed. When men are ill, they feel every neglect with double anguish, and, what
then must be in such cases the feelings of women, whose ordinary feelings are so much more
acute than those of men; what must be their feelings in case of neglect in illness, and especially
if the neglect come from the husband! Your own heart will, I hope, tell you what those feelings
must be, and will spare me the vain attempt to describe them; and, if it do thus instruct you,
you will want no arguments from me to induce you, at such a season, to prove the sincerity
of your affection by every kind word and kind act that your mind can suggest. This is the time
to try you; and, be you assured, that the impression left on her mind now will be the true
and lasting impression; and, if it be good, will be a better preservative against her being
jealous, than ten thousand of your professions ten thousand times repeated. In such a case,
you ought to spare no expense that you can possibly afford; you ought to neglect nothing that
your means will enable you to do; for, what is the use of money if it be not to be expended
in this case? But, more than all the rest, is your own personal attention. This is the valuable
thing; this is the great balm to the sufferer, and, it is efficacious in proportion as it is
proved to be sincere. Leave nothing to other hands that you can do yourself; the mind has a
great deal to do in all the ailments of the body, and, bear in mind, that, whatever be the
event, you have a more than ample reward. I cannot press this point too strongly upon you;
the bed of sickness presents no charms, no allurements, and women know this well; they watch,
in such a case, your every word and every look: and now it is that their confidence is secured,
or their suspicions excited, for life.

198. In conclusion of these remarks, as to jealousy in a wife, I cannot help expressing my
abhorrence of those husbands who treat it as a matter for ridicule. To be sure, infidelity
in a man is less heinous than infidelity in the wife; but still, is the marriage vow nothing?
Is a promise solemnly made before God, and in the face of the world, nothing? Is a violation
of a contract, and that, too, with a feebler party, nothing of which a man ought to be ashamed?
But, besides all these, there is the cruelty. First, you win, by great pains, perhaps, a woman's
affections; then, in order to get possession of her person, you marry her; then, after enjoyment,
you break your vow, you bring upon her the mixed pity and jeers of the world, and thus you
leave her to weep out her life. Murder is more horrible than this, to be sure, and the criminal
law, which punishes divers other crimes, does not reach this; but, in the eye of reason and
of moral justice, it is surpassed by very few of those crimes. Passion may be pleaded, and
so it may, for almost every other crime of which man can be guilty. It is not a crime against
nature; nor are any of these which men commit in consequence of their necessities. The temptation
is great; and is not the temptation great when men thieve or rob? In short, there is no excuse
for an act so unjust and so cruel, and the world is just as to this matter; for, I have always
observed, that, however men are disposed to laugh at these breaches of vows in men, the act
seldom fails to produce injury to the whole character; it leaves, after all the joking, a stain,
and, amongst those who depend on character for a livelihood, it often produces ruin. At the
very least, it makes an unhappy and wrangling family; it makes children despise or hate their
fathers, and it affords an example at the thought of the ultimate consequences of which a father
ought to shudder. In such a case, children will take part, and they ought to take part, with
the mother: she is the injured party; the shame brought upon her attaches, in part, to them:
they feel the injustice done them; and, if such a man, when the grey hairs, and tottering knees,
and piping voice come, look round him in vain for a prop, let him, at last, be just, and acknowledge
that he has now the due reward of his own wanton cruelty to one whom he had solemnly sworn
to love and to cherish to the last hour of his or her life.

199. But, bad as is conjugal infidelity in the husband, it is much worse in the wife: a proposition
that it is necessary to maintain by the force of reason, because the women, as a sisterhood,
are prone to deny the truth of it. They say that adultery is adultery, in men as well as in
them; and that, therefore, the offence is as great in the one case as in the other. As a crime,
abstractedly considered, it certainly is; but, as to the consequences, there is a wide difference.
In both cases, there is the breach of a solemn vow, but, there is this great distinction, that
the husband, by his breach of that vow, only brings shame upon his wife and family; whereas
the wife, by a breach of her vow, may bring the husband a spurious offspring to maintain, and
may bring that spurious offspring to rob of their fortunes, and in some cases of their bread,
her legitimate children. So that here is a great and evident wrong done to numerous parties,
besides the deeper disgrace inflicted in this case than in the other.

200. And why is the disgrace deeper? Because here is a total want of delicacy; here is, in
fact, prostitution; here is grossness and filthiness of mind; here is every thing that argues
baseness of character. Women should be, and they are, except in few instances, far more reserved
and more delicate than men; nature bids them be such; the habits and manners of the world confirm
this precept of nature; and therefore, when they commit this offence, they excite loathing,
as well as call for reprobation. In the countries where a plurality of wives is permitted,
there is no plurality of husbands. It is there thought not at all indelicate for a man to have
several wives; but the bare thought of a woman having two husbands would excite horror. The
widows of the Hindoos burn themselves in the pile that consumes their husbands; but the Hindoo
widowers do not dispose of themselves in this way. The widows devote their bodies to complete
destruction, lest, even after the death of their husbands, they should be tempted to connect
themselves with other men; and though this is carrying delicacy far indeed, it reads to Christian
wives a lesson not unworthy of their attention; for, though it is not desirable that their
bodies should be turned into handfuls of ashes, even that transmutation were preferable to
that infidelity which fixes the brand of shame on the cheeks of their parents, their children,
and on those of all who ever called them friend.

201. For these plain and forcible reasons it is that this species of offence is far more heinous
in the wife than in the husband; and the people of all civilized countries act upon this settled
distinction. Men who have been guilty of the offence are not cut off from society, but women
who have been guilty of it are; for, as we all know well, no woman, married or single, of fair
reputation, will risk that reputation by being ever seen, if she can avoid it, with a woman
who has ever, at any time, committed this offence, which contains in itself, and by universal
award, a sentence of social excommunication for life.

202. If, therefore, it be the duty of the husband to adhere strictly to his marriage vow: if
his breach of that vow be naturally attended with the fatal consequences above described: how
much more imperative is the duty on the wife to avoid, even the semblance of a deviation from
that vow! If the man's misconduct, in this respect, bring shame on so many innocent parties,
what shame, what dishonour, what misery follow such misconduct in the wife! Her parents, those
of her husband, all her relations, and all her friends, share in her dishonour. And her children!
how is she to make atonement to them! They are commanded to honour their father and their mother;
but not such a mother as this, who, on the contrary, has no claim to any thing from them but
hatred, abhorrence, and execration. It is she who has broken the ties of nature; she has dishonoured
her own offspring; she has fixed a mark of reproach on those who once made a part of her own
body; nature shuts her out of the pale of its influence, and condemns her to the just detestation
of those whom it formerly bade love her as their own life.

203. But as the crime is so much more heinous, and the punishment so much more severe, in the
case of the wife than it is in the case of the husband, so the caution ought to be greater
in making the accusation, or entertaining the suspicion. Men ought to be very slow in entertaining
such suspicions: they ought to have clear proof before they can suspect; a proneness to such
suspicions is a very unfortunate turn of the mind; and, indeed, few characters are more despicable
than that of a jealous-headed husband; rather than be tied to the whims of one of whom, an
innocent woman of spirit would earn her bread over the washing-tub, or with a hay-fork, or
a reap-hook. With such a man there can be no peace; and, as far as children are concerned,
the false accusation is nearly equal to the reality. When a wife discovers her jealousy, she
merely imputes to her husband inconstancy and breach of his marriage vow; but jealousy in him
imputes to her a willingness to palm a spurious offspring upon him, and upon her legitimate
children, as robbers of their birthright; and, besides this, grossness, filthiness, and prostitution.
She imputes to him injustice and cruelty: but he imputes to her that which banishes her from
society; that which cuts her off for life from every thing connected with female purity; that
which brands her with infamy to her latest breath.

204. Very slow, therefore, ought a husband to be in entertaining even the thought of this crime
in his wife. He ought to be quite sure before he take the smallest step in the way of accusation;
but if unhappily he have the proof, no consideration on earth ought to induce him to cohabit
with her one moment longer. Jealous husbands are not despicable because they have grounds;
but because they have not grounds; and this is generally the case. When they have grounds,
their own honour commands them to cast off the object, as they would cut out a corn or a cancer.
It is not the jealousy in itself, which is despicable; but the continuing to live in that state.
It is no dishonour to be a slave in Algiers, for instance; the dishonour begins only where
you remain a slave voluntarily; it begins the moment you can escape from slavery, and do not.
It is despicable unjustly to be jealous of your wife; but it is infamy to cohabit with her
if you know her to be guilty.

205. I shall be told that the law compels you to live with her, unless you be rich enough to
disengage yourself from her; but the law does not compel you to remain in the same country
with her; and, if a man have no other means of ridding himself of such a curse, what are mountains
or seas or traverse? And what is the risk (if such there be) of exchanging a life of bodily
ease for a life of labour? What are these, and numerous other ills (if they happen) superadded?
Nay, what is death itself, compared with the baseness, the infamy, the never-ceasing shame
and reproach of living under the same roof with a prostituted woman, and calling her your wife?
But, there are children, and what are to become of these? To be taken away from the prostitute,
to be sure; and this is a duty which you owe to them: the sooner they forget her the better,
and the farther they are from her, the sooner that will be. There is no excuse for continuing
to live with an adultress; no inconvenience, no loss, no suffering, ought to deter a man from
delivering himself from such a state of filthy infamy; and to suffer his children to remain
in such a state, is a crime that hardly admits of adequate description; a jail is paradise
compared with such a life, and he who can endure this latter, from the fear of encountering
hardship, is a wretch too despicable to go by the name of man.

206. But, now, all this supposes, that the husband has well and truly acted his part! It supposes,
not only that he has been faithful; but, that he has not, in any way, been the cause of temptation
to the wife to be unfaithful. If he have been cold and neglectful; if he have led a life of
irregularity; if he have proved to her that home was not his delight; if he have made his house
the place of resort for loose companions; if he have given rise to a taste for visiting, junketting,
parties of pleasure and gaiety; if he have introduced the habit of indulging in what are called
'innocent freedoms;' if these, or any of these, the fault is his, he must take the consequences,
and he has no right to inflict punishment on the offender, the offence being in fact of his
own creating. The laws of God, as well as the laws of man, have given him all power in this
respect: it is for him to use that power for the honour of his wife as well as for that of
himself: if he neglect to use it, all the consequences ought to fall on him; and, as far as
my observation has gone, in nineteen out of twenty cases of infidelity in wives, the crimes
have been fairly ascribable to the husbands. Folly or misconduct in the husband, cannot, indeed,
justify or even palliate infidelity in the wife, whose very nature ought to make her recoil
at the thought of the offence; but it may, at the same time, deprive him of the right of inflicting
punishment on her: her kindred, her children, and the world, will justly hold her in abhorrence;
but the husband must hold his peace.

207. 'Innocent freedoms!' I know of none that a wife can indulge in. The words, as applied
to the demeanour of a married woman, or even a single one, imply a contradiction. For freedom,
thus used, means an exemption or departure from the strict rules of female reserve; and, I
do not see how this can be innocent. It may not amount to crime, indeed; but, still it is not
innocent; and the use of the phrase is dangerous. If it had been my fortune to be yoked to
a person, who liked 'innocent freedoms,' I should have unyoked myself in a very short time.
But, to say the truth, it is all a man's own fault. If he have not sense and influence enough
to prevent 'innocent freedoms,' even before marriage, he will do well to let the thing alone,
and leave wives to be managed by those who have. But, men will talk to your wife, and natter
her. To be sure they will, if she be young and pretty; and would you go and pull her away from
them? O no, by no means; but you must have very little sense, or must have made very little
use of it, if her manner do not soon convince them that they employ their flattery in vain.

208. So much of a man's happiness and of his efficiency through life depends upon his mind
being quite free from all anxieties of this sort, that too much care cannot be taken to guard
against them; and, I repeat, that the great preservation of all is, the young couple living
as much as possible at home, and having as few visitors as possible. If they do not prefer
the company of each other to that of all the world besides; if either of them be weary of the
company of the other; if they do not, when separated by business or any other cause, think
with pleasure of the time of meeting again, it is a bad omen. Pursue this course when young,
and the very thought of jealousy will never come into your mind; and, if you do pursue it,
and show by your deeds that you value your wife as you do your own life, you must be pretty
nearly an idiot, if she do not think you to be the wisest man in the world. The best man she
will be sure to think you, and she will never forgive any one that calls your talents or your
wisdom in question.

209. Now, will you say that, if to be happy, nay, if to avoid misery and ruin in the married
state, requires all these precautions, all these cares, to fail to any extent in any of which
is to bring down on a man's head such fearful consequences; will you say that, if this be the
case, it is better to remain single? If you should say this, it is my business to show that
you are in error. For, in the first place, it is against nature to suppose that children can
cease to be born; they must and will come; and then it follows, that they must come by promiscuous
intercourse, or by particular connexion. The former nobody will contend for, seeing that it
would put us, in this respect, on a level with the brute creation. Then, as the connexion is
to be particular, it must be during pleasure, or for the joint lives of the parties. The former
would seldom hold for any length of time: the tie would seldom be durable, and it would be
feeble on account of its uncertain duration. Therefore, to be a father, with all the lasting
and delightful ties attached to the name, you must first be a husband; and there are very few
men in the world who do not, first or last, desire to be fathers. If it be said, that marriage
ought not to be for life, but that its duration ought to be subject to the will, the mutual
will at least, of the parties; the answer is, that it would seldom be of long duration. Every
trifling dispute would lead to a separation; a hasty word would be enough. Knowing that the
engagement is for life, prevents disputes too; it checks anger in its beginnings. Put a rigging
horse into a field with a weak fence, and with captivating pasture on the other side, and he
is continually trying to get out; but, let the field be walled round, he makes the best of
his hard fare, and divides his time between grazing and sleeping. Besides, there could be no
families, no assemblages of persons worthy of that name; all would be confusion and indescribable
intermixture: the names of brother and sister would hardly have a meaning; and, therefore,
there must be marriage, or there can be nothing worthy of the name of family or of father.

210. The cares and troubles of the married life are many; but, are those of the single life
few? Take the farmer, and it is nearly the same with the tradesman; but, take the farmer, for
instance, and let him, at the age of twenty-five, go into business unmarried. See his maid
servants, probably rivals for his smiles, but certainly rivals in the charitable distribution
of his victuals and drink amongst those of their own rank: behold their guardianship of his
pork-tub, his bacon rack, his butter, cheese, milk, poultry, eggs, and all the rest of it:
look at their care of all his household stuff, his blankets, sheets, pillow-cases, towels,
knives and forks, and particularly of his crockery ware, of which last they will hardly exceed
a single cart-load of broken bits in the year. And, how nicely they will get up and take care
of his linen and other wearing apparel, and always have it ready for him without his thinking
about it! If absent at market, or especially at a distant fair, how scrupulously they will
keep all their cronies out of his house, and what special care they will take of his cellar,
more particularly that which holds the strong beer! And his groceries and his spirits and his
wine (for a bachelor can afford it), how safe these will all be! Bachelors have not, indeed,
any more than married men, a security for health; but if our young farmer be sick, there are
his couple of maids to take care of him, to administer his medicine, and to perform for him
all other nameless offices, which in such a case are required; and what is more, take care
of every thing down stairs at the same time, especially his desk with the money in it! Never
will they, good-humoured girls as they are, scold him for coming home too late; but, on the
contrary, like him the better for it; and if he have drunk a little too much, so much the better,
for then he will sleep late in the morning, and when he comes out at last, he will find that
his men have been so hard at work, and that all his animals have been taken such good care of!

211. Nonsense! a bare glance at the thing shows, that a farmer, above all men living, can never
carry on his affairs with profit without a wife, or a mother, or a daughter, or some such person;
and mother and daughter imply matrimony. To be sure, a wife would cause some trouble, perhaps,
to this young man. There might be the midwife and nurse to gallop after at midnight; there
might be, and there ought to be, if called for, a little complaining of late hours; but, good
God! what are these, and all the other troubles that could attend a married life; what are
they, compared to the one single circumstance of the want of a wife at your bedside during
one single night of illness! A nurse! what is a nurse to do for you? Will she do the things
that a wife will do? Will she watch your looks and your half-uttered wishes? Will she use the
urgent persuasions so often necessary to save life in such cases? Will she, by her acts, convince
you that it is not a toil, but a delight, to break her rest for your sake? In short, now it
is that you find that what the women themselves say is strictly true, namely, that without
wives, men are poor helpless mortals.

212. As to the expense, there is no comparison between that of a woman servant and a wife,
in the house of a farmer or a tradesman. The wages of the former is not the expense; it is
the want of a common interest with you, and this you can obtain in no one but a wife. But there
are the children. I, for my part, firmly believe that a farmer, married at twenty-five, and
having ten children during the first ten years, would be able to save more money during these
years, than a bachelor, of the same age, would be able to save, on the same farm, in a like
space of time, he keeping only one maid servant. One single fit of illness, of two months'
duration, might sweep away more than all the children would cost in the whole ten years, to
say nothing of the continual waste and pillage, and the idleness, going on from the first day
of the ten years to the last.

213. Besides, is the money all? What a life to lead!! No one to talk to without going from
home, or without getting some one to come to you; no friend to sit and talk to: pleasant evenings
to pass! Nobody to share with you your sorrows or your pleasures: no soul having a common interest
with you: all around you taking care of themselves, and no care of you: no one to cheer you
in moments of depression: to say all in a word, no one to love you, and no prospect of ever
seeing any such one to the end of your days. For, as to parents and brethren, if you have them,
they have other and very different ties; and, however laudable your feelings as son and brother,
those feelings are of a different character. Then as to gratifications, from which you will
hardly abstain altogether, are they generally of little expense? and are they attended with
no trouble, no vexation, no disappointment, no jealousy even, and are they never followed by
shame or remorse?

214. It does very well in bantering songs, to say that the bachelor's life is 'devoid of care.'
My observation tells me the contrary, and reason concurs, in this regard, with experience.
The bachelor has no one on whom he can in all cases rely. When he quits his home, he carries
with him cares that are unknown to the married man. If, indeed, like the common soldier, he
have merely a lodging-place, and a bundle of clothes, given in charge to some one, he may be
at his ease; but if he possess any thing of a home, he is never sure of its safety; and this
uncertainty is a great enemy to cheerfulness. And as to efficiency in life, how is the bachelor
to equal the married man? In the case of farmers and tradesmen, the latter have so clearly
the advantage over the former, that one need hardly insist upon the point; but it is, and must
be, the same in all the situations of life. To provide for a wife and children is the greatest
of all possible spurs to exertion. Many a man, naturally prone to idleness, has become active
and industrious when he saw children growing up about him; many a dull sluggard has become,
if not a bright man, at least a bustling man, when roused to exertion by his love. Dryden's
account of the change wrought in CYMON, is only a strong case of the kind. And, indeed, if
a man will not exert himself for the sake of a wife and children, he can have no exertion in
him; or he must be deaf to all the dictates of nature.

215. Perhaps the world never exhibited a more striking proof of the truth of this doctrine
than that which is exhibited in me; and I am sure that every one will say, without any hesitation,
that a fourth part of the labours I have performed, never would have been performed, if I had
not been a married man. In the first place, they could not; for I should, all the early part
of my life, have been rambling and roving about as most bachelors are. I should have had no
home that I cared a straw about, and should have wasted the far greater part of my time. The
great affair of home being settled, having the home secured, I had leisure to employ my mind
on things which it delighted in. I got rid at once of all cares, all anxieties, and had only
to provide for the very moderate wants of that home. But the children began to come. They sharpened
my industry: they spurred me on. To be sure, I had other and strong motives: I wrote for fame,
and was urged forward by ill-treatment, and by the desire to triumph over my enemies; but,
after all, a very large part of my nearly a hundred volumes may be fairly ascribed to the wife
and children.

216. I might have done something; but, perhaps, not a thousandth part of what I have done;
not even a thousandth part: for the chances are, that I, being fond of a military life, should
have ended my days ten or twenty years ago, in consequence of wounds, or fatigue, or, more
likely, in consequence of the persecutions of some haughty and insolent fool, whom nature had
formed to black my shoes, and whom a system of corruption had made my commander. Love came
and rescued me from this state of horrible slavery; placed the whole of my time at my own disposal;
made me as free as air; removed every restraint upon the operations of my mind, naturally disposed
to communicate its thoughts to others; and gave me, for my leisure hours, a companion, who,
though deprived of all opportunity of acquiring what is called learning, had so much good sense,
so much useful knowledge, was so innocent, so just in all her ways, so pure in thought, word
and deed, so disinterested, so generous, so devoted to me and her children, so free from all
disguise, and, withal, so beautiful and so talkative, and in a voice so sweet, so cheering,
that I must, seeing the health and the capacity which it had pleased God to give me, have been
a criminal, if I had done much less than that which I have done; and I have always said, that,
if my country feel any gratitude for my labours, that gratitude is due to her full as much
as to me.

217. 'Care'! What care have I known! I have been buffeted about by this powerful and vindictive
Government; I have repeatedly had the fruit of my labour snatched away from me by it; but I
had a partner that never frowned, that was never melancholy, that never was subdued in spirit,
that never abated a smile, on these occasions, that fortified me, and sustained me by her courageous
example, and that was just as busy and as zealous in taking care of the remnant as she had
been in taking care of the whole; just as cheerful, and just as full of caresses, when brought
down to a mean hired lodging, as when the mistress of a fine country house, with all its accompaniments;
and, whether from her words or her looks, no one could gather that she regretted the change.
What 'cares' have I had, then? What have I had worthy of the name of 'cares'?

218. And, how is it now? How is it when the sixty-fourth year has come? And how should I have
been without this wife and these children? I might have amassed a tolerable heap of money;
but what would that have done for me? It might have bought me plenty of professions of attachment;
plenty of persons impatient for my exit from the world; but not one single grain of sorrow,
for any anguish that might have attended my approaching end. To me, no being in this world
appears so wretched as an Old Bachelor. Those circumstances, those changes in his person and
in his mind, which, in the husband, increase rather than diminish the attentions to him, produce
all the want of feeling attendant on disgust; and he beholds, in the conduct of the mercenary
crew that generally surround him, little besides an eager desire to profit from that event,
the approach of which, nature makes a subject of sorrow with him.

219. Before I quit this part of my work, I cannot refrain from offering my opinion with regard
to what is due from husband to wife, when the disposal of his property comes to be thought
of. When marriage is an affair settled by deeds, contracts, and lawyers, the husband, being
bound beforehand, has really no will to make. But where he has a will to make, and a faithful
wife to leave behind him, it is his first duty to provide for her future well-being, to the
utmost of his power. If she brought him no money, she brought him her person; and by delivering
that up to him, she established a claim to his careful protection of her to the end of her
life. Some men think, or act as if they thought, that, if a wife bring no money, and if the
husband gain money by his business or profession, that money is his, and not hers, because
she has not been doing any of those things for which the money has been received. But is this
way of thinking just? By the marriage vow, the husband endows the wife with all his worldly
goods; and not a bit too much is this, when she is giving him the command and possession of
her person. But does she not help to acquire the money? Speaking, for instance, of the farmer
or the merchant, the wife does not, indeed, go to plough, or to look after the ploughing and
sowing; she does not purchase or sell the stock; she does not go to the fair or the market;
but she enables him to do all these without injury to his affairs at home; she is the guardian
of his property; she preserves what would otherwise be lost to him. The barn and the granary,
though they create nothing, have, in the bringing of food to our mouths, as much merit as the
fields themselves. The wife does not, indeed, assist in the merchant's counting-house; she
does not go upon the exchange; she does not even know what he is doing; but she keeps his house
in order; she rears up his children; she provides a scene of suitable resort for his friends;
she insures him a constant retreat from the fatigues of his affairs; she makes his home pleasant,
and she is the guardian of his income.

220. In both these cases, the wife helps to gain the money; and in cases where there is no
gain, where the income is by descent, or is fixed, she helps to prevent it from being squandered
away. It is, therefore, as much hers as it is the husband's; and though the law gives him,
in many cases, the power of keeping her share from her, no just man will ever avail himself
of that power. With regard to the tying up of widows from marrying again, I will relate what
took place in a case of this kind, in America. A merchant, who had, during his married state,
risen from poverty to very great riches, and who had, nevertheless, died at about forty years
of age, left the whole of his property to his wife for her life, and at her disposal at her
death, provided that she did not marry. The consequence was, that she took a husband without
marrying, and, at her death (she having no children), gave the whole of the property to the
second husband! So much for posthumous jealousy!

221. Where there are children, indeed, it is the duty of the husband to provide, in certain
cases, against step-fathers, who are very prone not to be the most just and affectionate parents.
It is an unhappy circumstance, when a dying father is compelled to have fears of this sort.
There is seldom an apology to be offered for a mother that will hazard the happiness of her
children by a second marriage. The law allows it, to be sure; but there is, as Prior says,
'something beyond the letter of the law.' I know what ticklish ground I am treading on here;
but, though it is as lawful for a woman to take a second husband as for a man to take a second
wife, the cases are different, and widely different, in the eye of morality and of reason;
for, as adultery in the wife is a greater offence than adultery in the husband; as it is more
gross, as it includes prostitution; so a second marriage in the woman is more gross than in
the man, argues great deficiency in that delicacy, that innate modesty, which, after all, is
the great charm, the charm of charms, in the female sex. I do not like to hear a man talk of
his first wife, especially in the presence of a second; but to hear a woman thus talk of her
first husband, has never, however beautiful and good she might be, failed to sink her in my
estimation. I have, in such cases, never been able to keep out of my mind that concatenation
of ideas, which, in spite of custom, in spite of the frequency of the occurrence, leave an
impression deeply disadvantageous to the party; for, after the greatest of ingenuity has exhausted
itself in the way of apology, it comes to this at last, that the person has a second time undergone
that surrender, to which nothing but the most ardent affection, could ever reconcile a chaste
and delicate woman.

222. The usual apologies, that 'a lone woman wants a protector; that she cannot manage her
estate; that she cannot carry on her business; that she wants a home for her children'; all
these apologies are not worth a straw; for what is the amount of them? Why, that she surrenders
her person to secure these ends! And if we admit the validity of such apologies, are we far
from apologising for the kept-mistress, and even the prostitute? Nay, the former of these may
(if she confine herself to one man) plead more boldly in her defence; and even the latter may
plead that hunger, which knows no law, and no decorum, and no delicacy. These unhappy, but
justly-reprobated and despised parties, are allowed no apology at all: though reduced to the
begging of their bread, the world grants them no excuse. The sentence on them is: 'You shall
suffer every hardship; you shall submit to hunger and nakedness; you shall perish by the way-side,
rather than you shall surrender your person to the dishonour of the female sex.' But can we,
without crying injustice, pass this sentence upon them, and, at the same time hold it to be
proper, decorous, and delicate, that widows shall surrender their persons for worldly gain,
for the sake of ease, or for any consideration whatsoever?

223. It is disagreeable to contemplate the possibility of cases of separation; but amongst
the evils of life, such have occurred, and will occur; and the injured parties, while they
are sure to meet with the pity of all just persons, must console themselves that they have
not merited their fate. In the making one's choice, no human foresight or prudence can, in
all cases, guard against an unhappy result. There is one species of husbands to be occasionally
met with in all countries, meriting particular reprobation, and causing us to lament, that
there is no law to punish offenders so enormous. There was a man in Pennsylvania, apparently
a very amiable young man, having a good estate of his own, and marrying a most beautiful woman
of his own age, of rich parents, and of virtue perfectly spotless. He very soon took to both
gaming and drinking (the last being the most fashionable vice of the country); he neglected
his affairs and his family; in about four years spent his estate, and became a dependent on
his wife's father, together with his wife and three children. Even this would have been of
little consequence, as far as related to expense; but he led the most scandalous life, and
was incessant in his demands of money for the purposes of that infamous life. All sorts of
means were resorted to to reclaim him, and all in vain; and the wretch, availing himself of
the pleading of his wife's affection, and of his power over the children more especially, continued
for ten or twelve years to plunder the parents, and to disgrace those whom it was his bounden
duty to assist in making happy. At last, going out in the dark, in a boat, and being partly
drunk, he went to the bottom of the Delaware, and became food for otters or fishes, to the
great joy of all who knew him, excepting only his amiable wife. I can form an idea of no baseness
equal to this. There is more of baseness in this character than in that of the robber. The
man who obtains the means of indulging in vice, by robbery, exposes himself to the inflictions
of the law; but though he merits punishment, he merits it less than the base miscreant who
obtains his means by his threats to disgrace his own wife, children, and the wife's parents.
The short way in such a case, is the best; set the wretch at defiance; resort to the strong
arm of the law wherever it will avail you; drive him from your house like a mad dog; for, be
assured, that a being so base and cruel is never to be reclaimed: all your efforts at persuasion
are useless; his promises and vows are made but to be broken; all your endeavours to keep the
thing from the knowledge of the world, only prolong his plundering of you; and many a tender
father and mother have been ruined by such endeavours; the whole story must come out at last,
and it is better to come out before you be ruined, than after your ruin is completed.

224. However, let me hope, that those who read this work will always be secure against evils
like these; let me hope, that the young men who read it will abstain from those vices which
lead to such fatal results; that they will, before they utter the marriage vow, duly reflect
on the great duties that that vow imposes on them; that they will repel, from the outset, every
temptation to any thing tending to give pain to the defenceless persons whose love for them
have placed them at their mercy; and that they will imprint on their own minds this truth,
that a bad husband was never yet a happy man.

LETTER V

TO A FATHER

225. 'Little children,' says the Scripture, 'are like arrows in the hands of the giant, and
blessed is the man that hath his quiver full of them'; a beautiful figure to describe, in forcible
terms, the support, the power, which a father derives from being surrounded by a family. And
what father, thus blessed, is there who does not feel, in this sort of support, a reliance
which he feels in no other? In regard to this sort of support there is no uncertainty, no doubts,
no misgivings; it is yourself that you see in your children: their bosoms are the safe repository
of even the whispers of your mind: they are the great and unspeakable delight of your youth,
the pride of your prime of life, and the props of your old age. They proceed from that love,
the pleasures of which no tongue or pen can adequately describe, and the various blessings
which they bring are equally incapable of description.

226. But, to make them blessings, you must act your part well; for they may, by your neglect,
your ill-treatment, your evil example, be made to be the contrary of blessings; instead of
pleasure, they may bring you pain; instead of making your heart glad, the sight of them may
make it sorrowful; instead of being the staff of your old age, they may bring your gray hairs
in grief to the grave.

227. It is, therefore, of the greatest importance, that you here act well your part, omitting
nothing, even from the very beginning, tending to give you great and unceasing influence over
their minds; and, above all things, to ensure, if possible, an ardent love of their mother.
Your first duty towards them is resolutely to prevent their drawing the means of life from
any breast but hers. That is their own; it is their birthright; and if that fail from any natural
cause, the place of it ought to be supplied by those means which are frequently resorted to
without employing a hireling breast. I am aware of the too frequent practice of the contrary;
I am well aware of the offence which I shall here give to many; but it is for me to do my duty,
and to set, with regard to myself, consequences at defiance.

228. In the first place, no food is so congenial to the child as the milk of its own mother;
its quality is made by nature to suit the age of the child; it comes with the child, and is
calculated precisely for its stomach. And, then, what sort of a mother must that be who can
endure the thought of seeing her child at another breast! The suckling may be attended with
great pain, and it is so attended in many cases; but this pain is a necessary consequence of
pleasures foregone; and, besides, it has its accompanying pleasures too. No mother ever suffered
more than my wife did from suckling her children. How many times have I seen her, when the
child was beginning to draw, bite her lips while the tears ran down her cheeks! Yet, having
endured this, the smiles came and dried up the tears; and the little thing that had caused
the pain received abundant kisses as its punishment.

229. Why, now, did I not love her the more for this? Did not this tend to rivet her to my heart?
She was enduring this for me; and would not this endearing thought have been wanting, if I
had seen the baby at a breast that I had hired and paid for; if I had had two women, one to
bear the child and another to give it milk? Of all the sights that this world affords, the
most delightful in my eyes, even to an unconcerned spectator, is, a mother with her clean and
fat baby lugging at her breast, leaving off now-and-then and smiling, and she, occasionally,
half smothering it with kisses. What must that sight be, then, to the father of the child?

230. Besides, are we to overlook the great and wonderful effect that this has on the minds
of children? As they succeed each other, they see with their own eyes, the pain, the care,
the caresses, which their mother has endured for, or bestowed, on them; and nature bids them
love her accordingly. To love her ardently becomes part of their very nature; and when the
time comes that her advice to them is necessary as a guide for their conduct, this deep and
early impression has all its natural weight, which must be wholly wanting if the child be banished
to a hireling breast, and only brought at times into the presence of the mother, who is, in
fact, no mother, or, at least, but half a one. The children who are thus banished, love (as
is natural and just) the foster-mother better than the real mother as long as they are at the
breast. When this ceases, they are taught to love their own mother most; but this teaching
is of a cold and formal kind. They may, and generally do, in a short time, care little about
the foster-mother; the teaching weans all their affection from her, but it does not transfer
it to the other.

231. I had the pleasure to know, in Hampshire, a lady who had brought up a family of ten children
by hand, as they call it. Owing to some defect, she could not suckle her children; but she
wisely and heroically resolved, that her children should hang upon no other breast, and that
she would not participate in the crime of robbing another child of its birthright, and, as
is mostly the case, of its life. Who has not seen these banished children, when brought and
put into the arms of their mothers, screaming to get from them, and stretch out their little
hands to get back into the arms of the nurse, and when safely got there, hugging the hireling
as if her bosom were a place of refuge? Why, such a sight is, one would think, enough to strike
a mother dead. And what sort of a husband and father, I want to know, must that be, who can
endure the thought of his child loving another woman more than its own mother and his wife?

232. And besides all these considerations, is there no crime in robbing the child of the nurse,
and in exposing it to perish? It will not do to say that the child of the nurse may be dead,
and thereby leave her breast for the use of some other. Such cases must happen too seldom to
be at all relied on; and, indeed, every one must see, that, generally speaking, there must
be a child cast off for every one that is put to a hireling breast. Now, without supposing
it possible, that the hireling will, in any case, contrive to get rid of her own child, every
man who employs such hireling, must know, that he is exposing such child to destruction; that
he is assisting to rob it of the means of life; and, of course, assisting to procure its death,
as completely as a man can, in any case, assist in causing death by starvation; a consideration
which will make every just man in the world recoil at the thought of employing a hireling breast.
For he is not to think of pacifying his conscience by saying, that he knows nothing about the
hireling's child. He does know; for he must know, that she has a child, and that he is a principal
in robbing it of the means of life. He does not cast it off and leave it to perish himself,
but he causes the thing to be done; and to all intents and purposes, he is a principal in the
cruel and cowardly crime.

233. And if an argument could possibly be yet wanting to the husband; if his feelings were
so stiff as still to remain unmoved, must not the wife be aware that whatever face the world
may put upon it, however custom may seem to bear her out; must she not be aware that every
one must see the main motive which induces her to banish from her arms that which has formed
part of her own body? All the pretences about her sore breasts and her want of strength are
vain: nature says that she is to endure the pains as well as the pleasures: whoever has heard
the bleating of the ewe for her lamb, and has seen her reconciled, or at least pacified, by
having presented to her the skin or some of the blood of her dead lamb: whoever has witnessed
the difficulty of inducing either ewe or cow to give her milk to an alien young one: whoever
has seen the valour of the timid hen in defending her brood, and has observed that she never
swallows a morsel that is fit for her young, until they be amply satisfied: whoever has seen
the wild birds, though, at other times, shunning even the distant approach of man, flying and
screaming round his head, and exposing themselves to almost certain death in defence of their
nests: whoever has seen these things, or any one of them, must question the motive that can
induce a mother to banish a child from her own breast to that of one who has already been so
unnatural as to banish hers. And, in seeking for a motive sufficiently powerful to lead to
such an act, women must excuse men, if they be not satisfied with the ordinary pretences; they
must excuse me, at any rate, if I do not stop even at love of ease and want of maternal affection,
and if I express my fear, that, superadded to the unjustifiable motives, there is one which
is calculated to excite disgust; namely, a desire to be quickly freed from that restraint which
the child imposes, and to hasten back, unbridled and undisfigured, to those enjoyments, to
have an eagerness for which, or to wish to excite a desire for which, a really delicate woman
will shudder at the thought of being suspected.

234. I am well aware of the hostility that I have here been exciting; but there is another,
and still more furious, bull to take by the horns, and which would have been encountered some
pages back (that being the proper place), had I not hesitated between my duty and my desire
to avoid giving offence; I mean the employing of male-operators, on those occasions where females
used to be employed. And here I have every thing against me; the now general custom, even amongst
the most chaste and delicate women; the ridicule continually cast on old midwives; the interest
of a profession, for the members of which I entertain more respect and regard than for those
of any other; and, above all the rest, my own example to the contrary, and my knowledge that
every husband has the same apology that I had. But because I acted wrong myself, it is not
less, but rather more, my duty to endeavour to dissuade others from doing the same. My wife
had suffered very severely with her second child, which, at last, was still-born. The next
time I pleaded for the doctor; and, after every argument that I could think of, obtained a
reluctant consent. Her life was so dear to me, that every thing else appeared as nothing. Every
husband has the same apology to make; and thus, from the good, and not from the bad, feelings
of men, the practice has become far too general, for me to hope even to narrow it; but, nevertheless,
I cannot refrain from giving my opinion on the subject.

235. We are apt to talk in a very unceremonious style of our rude ancestors, of their gross
habits, their want of delicacy in their language. No man shall ever make me believe, that those,
who reared the cathedral of ELY (which I saw the other day), were rude, either in their manners
or in their minds and words. No man shall make me believe, that our ancestors were a rude and
beggarly race, when I read in an act of parliament, passed in the reign of Edward the Fourth,
regulating the dresses of the different ranks of the people, and forbidding the LABOURERS to
wear coats of cloth that cost more than two shillings a yard (equal to forty shillings of our
present money), and forbidding their wives and daughters to wear sashes, or girdles, trimmed
with gold or silver. No man shall make me believe that this was a rude and beggarly race, compared
with those who now shirk and shiver about in canvass frocks and rotten cottons. Nor shall any
man persuade me that that was a rude and beggarly state of things, in which (reign of Edward
the Third) an act was passed regulating the wages of labour, and ordering that a woman, for
weeding in the corn, should receive a penny a day, while a quart of red wine was sold for a
penny, and a pair of men's shoes for two-pence. No man shall make me believe that agriculture
was in a rude state, when an act like this was passed, or that our ancestors of that day were
rude in their minds, or in their thoughts. Indeed, there are a thousand proofs, that, whether
in regard to domestic or foreign affairs, whether in regard to internal freedom and happiness,
or to weight in the world, England was at her zenith about the reign of Edward the Third. The
Reformation, as it is called, gave her a complete pull down. She revived again in the reigns
of the Stuarts, as far as related to internal affairs; but the 'Glorious Revolution' and its
debt and its taxes, have, amidst the false glare of new palaces, roads, and canals, brought
her down until she is become the land of domestic misery and of foreign impotence and contempt;
and, until she, amidst all her boasted improvements and refinements, tremblingly awaits her fall.

236. However, to return from this digression, rude and unrefined as our mothers might be, plain
and unvarnished as they might be in their language, accustomed as they might be to call things
by their names, though they were not so very delicate as to use the word small-clothes; and
to be quite unable, in speaking of horn-cattle, horses, sheep, the canine race, and poultry,
to designate them by their sexual appellations; though they might not absolutely faint at hearing
these appellations used by others; rude and unrefined and indelicate as they might be, they
did not suffer, in the cases alluded to, the approaches of men, which approaches are unceremoniously
suffered, and even sought, by their polished and refined and delicate daughters; and of unmarried
men too, in many cases; and of very young men.

237. From all antiquity this office was allotted to woman. Moses's life was saved by the humanity
of the Egyptian midwife; and to the employment of females in this memorable case, the world
is probably indebted for that which has been left it by that greatest of all law-givers, whose
institutes, rude as they were, have been the foundation of all the wisest and most just laws
in all the countries of Europe and America. It was the fellow feeling of the midwife for the
poor mother that saved Moses. And none but a mother can, in such cases, feel to the full and
effectual extent that which the operator ought to feel. She has been in the same state herself;
she knows more about the matter, except in cases of very rare occurrence, than any man, however
great his learning and experience, can ever know. She knows all the previous symptoms; she
can judge more correctly than man can judge in such a case; she can put questions to the party,
which a man cannot put; the communication between the two is wholly without reserve; the person
of the one is given up to the other, as completely as her own is under her command. This never
can be the case with a man-operator; for, after all that can be said or done, the native feeling
of women, in whatever rank of life, will, in these cases, restrain them from saying and doing,
before a man, even before a husband, many things which they ought to say and do. So that, perhaps,
even with regard to the bare question of comparative safety to life, the midwife is the preferable
person.

238. But safety to life is not ALL. The preservation of life is not to be preferred to EVERY
THING. Ought not a man to prefer death to the commission of treason against his country? Ought
not a man to die, rather than save his life by the prostitution of his wife to a tyrant, who
insists upon the one or the other? Every man and every woman will answer in the affirmative
to both these questions. There are, then, cases where people ought to submit to certain death.
Surely, then, the mere chance, the mere possibility of it, ought not to outweigh the mighty
considerations on the other side; ought not to overcome that inborn modesty, that sacred reserve
as to their persons, which, as I said before, is the charm of charms of the female sex, and
which our mothers, rude as they are called by us, took, we may be satisfied, the best and most
effectual means of preserving.

239. But is there, after all, any thing real in this greater security for the life of either
mother or child? If, then, risk were so great as to call upon women to overcome this natural
repugnance to suffer the approaches of a man, that risk must be general; it must apply to all
women; and, further, it must, ever since the creation of man, always have so applied. Now,
resorting to the employment of men-operators has not been in vogue in Europe more than about
seventy years, and has not been general in England more than about thirty or forty years. So
that the risk in employing midwives must, of late years, have become vastly greater than it
was even when I was a boy, or the whole race must have been extinguished long ago. And, then,
how puzzled we should be to account for the building of all the cathedrals, and all the churches,
and the draining of all the marshes, and all the fens, more than a thousand years before the
word 'accoucheur' ever came from the lips of woman, and before the thought came into her mind?
And here, even in the use of this word, we have a specimen of the refined delicacy of the present
age; here we have, varnish the matter over how we may, modesty in the word and grossness in
the thought. Farmers' wives, daughters, and maids, cannot now allude to, or hear named, without
blushing, those affairs of the homestead, which they, within my memory, used to talk about
as freely as of milking or spinning; but, have they become more really modest than their mothers
were? Has this refinement made them more continent than those rude mothers? A jury at Westminster
gave, about six years ago, damages to a man, calling himself a gentleman, against a farmer,
because the latter, for the purpose for which such animals are kept, had a bull in his yard,
on which the windows of the gentleman looked! The plaintiff alleged, that this was so offensive
to his wife and daughters, that, if the defendant were not compelled to desist, he should be
obliged to brick up his windows, or to quit the house! If I had been the father of these, at
once, delicate and curious daughters, I would not have been the herald of their purity of mind;
and if I had been the suitor of one of them, I would have taken care to give up the suit with
all convenient speed; for how could I reasonably have hoped ever to be able to prevail on delicacy,
so exquisite, to commit itself to a pair of bridal sheets? In spite, however, of all this 'refinement
in the human mind,' which is everlastingly dinned in our ears; in spite of the 'small-clothes,'
and of all the other affected stuff, we have this conclusion, this indubitable proof, of the
falling off in real delicacy; namely, that common prostitutes, formerly unknown, now swarm
in our towns, and are seldom wanting even in our villages; and where there was one illegitimate
child (including those coming before the time) only fifty years ago, there are now twenty.

240. And who can say how far the employment of men, in the cases alluded to, may have assisted
in producing this change, so disgraceful to the present age, and so injurious to the female
sex? The prostitution and the swarms of illegitimate children have a natural and inevitable
tendency to lessen that respect, and that kind and indulgent feeling, which is due from all
men to virtuous women. It is well known that the unworthy members of any profession, calling,
or rank in life, cause, by their acts, the whole body to sink in the general esteem; it is
well known, that the habitual dishonesty of merchants trading abroad, the habitual profligate
behaviour of travellers from home, the frequent proofs of abject submission to tyrants; it
is well known, that these may give the character of dishonesty, profligacy, or cowardice, to
a whole nation. There are, doubtless, many men in Switzerland, who abhor the infamous practices
of men selling themselves, by whole regiments, to fight for any foreign state that will pay
them, no matter in what cause, and no matter whether against their own parents or brethren;
but the censure falls upon the whole nation: and 'no money, no Swiss,' is a proverb throughout
the world. It is, amidst those scenes of prostitution and bastardy, impossible for men in general
to respect the female sex to the degree that they formerly did; while numbers will be apt to
adopt the unjust sentiment of the old bachelor, POPE, that 'every woman is, at heart, a rake.'

241. Who knows, I say, in what degree the employment of men-operators may have tended to produce
this change, so injurious to the female sex? Aye, and to encourage unfeeling and brutal men
to propose that the dead bodies of females, if poor, should be sold for the purpose of exhibition
and dissection before an audience of men; a proposition that our 'rude ancestors' would have
answered, not by words, but by blows! Alas! our women may talk of 'small-clothes' as long as
they please; they may blush to scarlet at hearing animals designated by their sexual appellations;
it may, to give the world a proof of our excessive modesty and delicacy, even pass a law (indeed
we have done it) to punish 'an exposure of the person'; but as long as our streets swarm with
prostitutes, our asylums and private houses with bastards; as long as we have man-operators
in the delicate cases alluded to, and as long as the exhibiting of the dead body of a virtuous
female before an audience of men shall not be punished by the law, and even with death; as
long as we shall appear to be satisfied in this state of things, it becomes us, at any rate,
to be silent about purity of mind, improvement of manners, and an increase of refinement and
delicacy.

242. This practice has brought the 'doctor' into every family in the kingdom, which is of itself
no small evil. I am not thinking of the expense; for, in cases like these, nothing in that
way ought to be spared. If necessary to the safety of his wife, a man ought not only to part
with his last shilling, but to pledge his future labour. But we all know that there are imaginary
ailments, many of which are absolutely created by the habit of talking with or about the 'doctor.'
Read the 'DOMESTIC MEDICINE,' and by the time that you have done, you will imagine that you
have, at times, all the diseases of which it treats. This practice has added to, has doubled,
aye, has augmented, I verily believe, ten-fold the number of the gentlemen who are, in common
parlance, called 'doctors'; at which, indeed, I, on my own private account, ought to rejoice;
for, invariably I have, even in the worst of times, found them every where amongst my staunchest
and kindest friends. But though these gentlemen are not to blame for this, any more than attorneys
are for their increase in number; and amongst these gentlemen, too, I have, with very few exceptions,
always found sensible men and zealous friends; though the parties pursuing these professions
are not to blame; though the increase of attorneys has arisen from the endless number and the
complexity of the laws, and from the ten-fold mass of crimes caused by poverty arising from
oppressive taxation; and though the increase of 'doctors' has arisen from the diseases and
the imaginary ailments arising from that effeminate luxury which has been created by the drawing
of wealth from the many, and giving it to the few; and, as the lower classes will always endeavour
to imitate the higher, so the 'accoucheur' has, along with the 'small-clothes,' descended from
the loan-monger's palace down to the hovel of the pauper, there to take his fee out of the
poor-rates; though these parties are not to blame, the thing is not less an evil. Both professions
have lost in character, in proportion to the increase in the number of its members; peaches,
if they grew on hedges, would rank but little above the berries of the bramble.

243. But to return once more to the matter of risk of life; can it be that nature has so ordered
it, that, as a general thing, the life of either mother or child shall be in danger, even if
there were no attendant at all? Can this be? Certainly it cannot: safety must be the rule,
and danger the exception; this must be the case, or the world never could have been peopled;
and, perhaps, in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred, if nature were left wholly to herself,
all would be right. The great doctor in these cases, is, comforting, consoling, cheering up.
And who can perform this office like women? who have for these occasions a language and sentiments
which seem to have been invented for the purpose; and be they what they may as to general demeanour
and character, they have all, upon these occasions, one common feeling, and that so amiable,
so excellent, as to admit of no adequate description. They completely forget, for the time,
all rivalships, all squabbles, all animosities, all hatred even; every one feels as if it were
her own particular concern.

244. These, we may be well assured, are the proper attendants on these occasions; the mother,
the aunt, the sister, the cousin, and female neighbour; these are the suitable attendants,
having some experienced woman to afford extraordinary aid, if such be necessary; and in the
few cases where the preservation of life demands the surgeon's skill, he is always at hand.
The contrary practice, which we got from the French, is not, however, so general in France
as in England. We have outstripped all the world in this, as we have in every thing which proceeds
from luxury and effeminacy on the one hand, and from poverty on the other; the millions have
been stripped of their means to heap wealth on the thousands, and have been corrupted in manners,
as well as in morals, by vicious examples set them by the possessors of that wealth. As reason
says that the practice of which I complain cannot be cured without a total change in society,
it would be presumption in me to expect such cure from any efforts of mine. I therefore must
content myself with hoping that such change will come, and with declaring, that if I had to
live my life over again, I would act upon the opinions which I have thought it my bounden duty
here to state and endeavour to maintain.

245. Having gotten over these thorny places as quickly as possible, I gladly come back to the
BABIES; with regard to whom I shall have no prejudices, no affectation, no false pride, no
sham fears to encounter; every heart (except there be one made of flint) being with me here.
'Then were there brought unto him little children, that he should put his hands on them, and
pray: and the disciples rebuked them. But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them
not to come unto me; for of such is the kingdom of heaven.' A figure most forcibly expressive
of the character and beauty of innocence, and, at the same time, most aptly illustrative of
the doctrine of regeneration. And where is the man; the woman who is not fond of babies is
not worthy the name; but where is the man who does not feel his heart softened; who does not
feel himself become gentler; who does not lose all the hardness of his temper; when, in any
way, for any purpose, or by any body, an appeal is made to him in behalf of these so helpless
and so perfectly innocent little creatures?

246. SHAKSPEARE, who is cried up as the great interpreter of the human heart, has said, that
the man in whose soul there is no music, or love of music, is 'fit for murders, treasons, stratagems,
and spoils.' 'Our immortal bard,' as the profligate SHERIDAN used to call him in public, while
he laughed at him in private; our 'immortal bard' seems to have forgotten that Shadrach, Meshach,
and Abednego, were flung into the fiery furnace (made seven times hotter than usual) amidst
the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, and dulcimer, and all kinds of music; he seems
to have forgotten that it was a music and a dance-loving damsel that chose, as a recompense
for her elegant performance, the bloody head of John the Baptist, brought to her in a charger;
he seems to have forgotten that, while Rome burned, Nero fiddled: he did not know, perhaps,
that cannibals always dance and sing while their victims are roasting; but he might have known,
and he must have known, that England's greatest tyrant, Henry VIII., had, as his agent in blood,
Thomas Cromwell, expressed it, 'his sweet soul enwrapped in the celestial sounds of music;'
and this was just at the time when the ferocious tyrant was ordering Catholics and Protestants
to be tied back to back on the same hurdle, dragged to Smithfield on that hurdle, and there
tied to, and burnt from, the same stake. Shakspeare must have known these things, for he lived
immediately after their date; and if he had lived in our day, he would have seen instances
enough of 'sweet souls' enwrapped in the same manner, and capable, if not of deeds equally
bloody, of others, discovering a total want of feeling for sufferings not unfrequently occasioned
by their own wanton waste, and waste arising, too, in part, from their taste for these 'celestial
sounds.'

247. O no! the heart of man is not to be known by this test: a great fondness for music is
a mark of great weakness, great vacuity of mind: not of hardness of heart; not of vice; not
of downright folly; but of a want of capacity, or inclination, for sober thought. This is not
always the case: accidental circumstances almost force the taste upon people: but, generally
speaking, it is a preference of sound to sense. But the man, and especially the father, who
is not fond of babies; who does not feel his heart softened when he touches their almost boneless
limbs; when he sees their little eyes first begin to discern; when he hears their tender accents;
the man whose heart does not beat truly to this test, is, to say the best of him, an object
of compassion.

248. But the mother's feelings are here to be thought of too; for, of all gratifications, the
very greatest that a mother can receive, is notice taken of, and praise bestowed on, her baby.
The moment that gets into her arms, every thing else diminishes in value, the father only excepted.
Her own personal charms, notwithstanding all that men say and have written on the subject,
become, at most, a secondary object as soon as the baby arrives. A saying of the old, profligate
King of Prussia is frequently quoted in proof of the truth of the maxim, that a woman will
forgive any thing but calling her ugly; a very true maxim, perhaps, as applied to prostitutes,
whether in high or low life; but a pretty long life of observation has told me, that a mother,
worthy of the name, will care little about what you say of her person, so that you will but
extol the beauty of her baby. Her baby is always the very prettiest that ever was born! It
is always an eighth wonder of the world! And thus it ought to be, or there would be a want
of that wondrous attachment to it which is necessary to bear her up through all those cares
and pains and toils inseparable from the preservation of its life and health.

249. It is, however, of the part which the husband has to act, in participating in these cares
and toils, that I am now to speak. Let no man imagine that the world will despise him for helping
to take care of his own child: thoughtless fools may attempt to ridicule; the unfeeling few
may join in the attempt; but all, whose good opinion is worth having, will applaud his conduct,
and will, in many cases, be disposed to repose confidence in him on that very account. To say
of a man, that he is fond of his family, is, of itself, to say that, in private life at least,
he is a good and trust-worthy man; aye, and in public life too, pretty much; for it is no easy
matter to separate the two characters; and it is naturally concluded, that he who has been
flagrantly wanting in feeling for his own flesh and blood, will not be very sensitive towards
the rest of mankind. There is nothing more amiable, nothing more delightful to behold, than
a young man especially taking part in the work of nursing the children; and how often have
I admired this in the labouring men in Hampshire! It is, indeed, generally the same all over
England; and as to America, it would be deemed brutal for a man not to take his full share
of these cares and labours.

250. The man who is to gain a living by his labour, must be drawn away from home, or, at least,
from the cradle-side, in order to perform that labour; but this will not, if he be made of
good stuff, prevent him from doing his share of the duty due to his children. There are still
many hours in the twenty-four, that he will have to spare for this duty; and there ought to
be no toils, no watchings, no breaking of rest, imposed by this duty, of which he ought not
to perform his full share, and that, too, without grudging. This is strictly due from him in
payment for the pleasures of the marriage state. What right has he to the sole possession of
a woman's person; what right to a husband's vast authority; what right to the honourable title
and the boundless power of father: what right has he to all, or any of these, unless he can
found his claim on the faithful performance of all the duties which these titles imply?

251. One great source of the unhappiness amongst mankind arises, however, from a neglect of
these duties; but, as if by way of compensation for their privations, they are much more duly
performed by the poor than by the rich. The fashion of the labouring people is this: the husband,
when free from his toil in the fields, takes his share in the nursing, which he manifestly
looks upon as a sort of reward for his labour. However distant from his cottage, his heart
is always at that home towards which he is carried, at night, by limbs that feel not their
weariness, being urged on by a heart anticipating the welcome of those who attend him there.
Those who have, as I so many hundreds of times have, seen the labourers in the woodland parts
of Hampshire and Sussex, coming, at night-fall, towards their cottage-wickets, laden with fuel
for a day or two; whoever has seen three or four little creatures looking out for the father's
approach, running in to announce the glad tidings, and then scampering out to meet him, clinging
round his knees, or hanging on his skirts; whoever has witnessed scenes like this, to witness
which has formed one of the greatest delights of my life, will hesitate long before he prefer
a life of ease to a life of labour; before he prefer a communication with children intercepted
by servants and teachers to that communication which is here direct, and which admits not of
any division of affection.

252. Then comes the Sunday; and, amongst all those who keep no servants, a great deal depends
on the manner in which the father employs that day. When there are two or three children, or
even one child, the first thing, after the breakfast (which is late on this day of rest), is
to wash and dress the child or children. Then, while the mother is dressing the dinner, the
father, being in his Sunday-clothes himself, takes care of the child or children. When dinner
is over, the mother puts on her best; and then, all go to church, or, if that cannot be, whether
from distance or other cause, all pass the afternoon together. This used to be the way of life
amongst the labouring people; and from this way of life arose the most able and most moral
people that the world ever saw, until grinding taxation took from them the means of obtaining
a sufficiency of food and of raiment; plunged the whole, good and bad, into one indiscriminate
mass, under the degrading and hateful name of paupers.

253. The working man, in whatever line, and whether in town or country, who spends his day
of rest, or any part of it, except in case of absolute necessity, away from his wife and children,
is not worthy of the name of father, and is seldom worthy of the trust of any employer. Such
absence argues a want of fatherly and of conjugal affection, which want is generally duly repaid
by a similar want in the neglected parties; and, though stern authority may command and enforce
obedience for a while, the time soon comes when it will be set at defiance; and when such a
father, having no example, no proofs of love, to plead, complains of filial ingratitude, the
silent indifference of his neighbours, and which is more poignant, his own heart, will tell
him that his complaint is unjust.

254. Thus far with regard to working people; but much more necessary is it to inculcate these
principles in the minds of young men in the middle rank of life, and to be more particular,
in their case, with regard to the care due to very young children, for here servants come in;
and many are but too prone to think, that when they have handed their children over to well-paid
and able servants, they have done their duty by them, than which there can hardly be a more
mischievous error. The children of the poorer people are, in general, much fonder of their
parents than those of the rich are of theirs: this fondness is reciprocal; and the cause is,
that the children of the former have, from their very birth, had a greater share than those
of the latter--of the personal attention, and of the never-ceasing endearments of their parents.

255. I have before urged upon young married men, in the middle walks of life, to keep the servants
out of the house as long as possible; and when they must come at last, when they must be had
even to assist in taking care of children, let them be assistants in the most strict sense
of the word; let them not be confided in; let children never be left to them alone; and the
younger the child, the more necessary a rigid adherence to this rule. I shall be told, perhaps,
by some careless father, or some play-haunting mother, that female servants are women, and
have the tender feelings of women. Very true; and, in general, as good and kind in their nature
as the mother herself. But they are not the mothers of your children, and it is not in nature
that they should have the care and anxiety adequate to the necessity of the case. Out of the
immediate care and personal superintendence of one or the other of the parents, or of some
trusty relation, no young child ought to be suffered to be, if there be, at whatever sacrifice
of ease or of property, any possibility of preventing it: because, to insure, if possible,
the perfect form, the straight limbs, the sound body, and the sane mind of your children, is
the very first of all your duties. To provide fortunes for them; to make provision for their
future fame; to give them the learning necessary to the calling for which you destine them:
all these may be duties, and the last is a duty; but a duty far greater than, and prior to,
all these, is the duty of neglecting nothing within your power to insure them a sane mind in
a sound and undeformed body. And, good God! how many are the instances of deformed bodies,
of crooked limbs, of idiocy, or of deplorable imbecility, proceeding solely from young children
being left to the care of servants! One would imagine, that one single sight of this kind to
be seen, or heard of, in a whole nation, would be sufficient to deter parents from the practice.
And what, then, must those parents feel, who have brought this life-long sorrowing on themselves!
When once the thing is done, to repent is unavailing. And what is now the worth of all the
ease and all the pleasures, to enjoy which the poor sufferer was abandoned to the care of servants!

256. What! can I plead example, then, in support of this rigid precept? Did we, who have bred
up a family of children, and have had servants during the greater part of the time, never leave
a young child to the care of servants? Never; no, not for one single hour. Were we, then, tied
constantly to the house with them? No; for we sometimes took them out; but one or the other
of us was always with them, until, in succession, they were able to take good care of themselves;
or until the elder ones were able to take care of the younger, and then they sometimes stood
sentinel in our stead. How could we visit then? Why, if both went, we bargained beforehand
to take the children with us; and if this were a thing not to be proposed, one of us went,
and the other stayed at home, the latter being very frequently my lot. From this we never once
deviated. We cast aside all consideration of convenience; all calculations of expense; all
thoughts of pleasure of every sort. And, what could have equalled the reward that we have received
for our care and for our unshaken resolution in this respect?

257. In the rearing of children, there is resolution wanting as well as tenderness. That parent
is not truly affectionate who wants the courage to do that which is sure to give the child
temporary pain. A great deal, in providing for the health and strength of children, depends
upon their being duly and daily washed, when well, in cold water from head to foot. Their cries
testify to what a degree they dislike this. They squall and kick and twist about at a fine
rate; and many mothers, too many, neglect this, partly from reluctance to encounter the squalling,
and partly, and much too often, from what I will not call idleness, but to which I cannot apply
a milder term than neglect. Well and duly performed, it is an hour's good tight work; for,
besides the bodily labour, which is not very slight when the child gets to be five or six months
old, there is the singing to overpower the voice of the child. The moment the stripping of
the child used to begin, the singing used to begin, and the latter never ceased till the former
had ceased. After having heard this go on with all my children, ROUSSEAU taught me the philosophy
of it. I happened, by accident, to look into his EMILE, and there I found him saying, that
the nurse subdued the voice of the child and made it quiet, by drowning its voice in hers,
and thereby making it perceive that it could not be heard, and that to continue to cry was
of no avail. 'Here, Nancy,' said I (going to her with the book in my hand), 'you have been
a great philosopher all your life, without either of us knowing it.' A silent nurse is a poor
soul. It is a great disadvantage to the child, if the mother be of a very silent, placid, quiet
turn. The singing, the talking to, the tossing and rolling about, that mothers in general practise,
are very beneficial to the children: they give them exercise, awaken their attention, animate
them, and rouse them to action. It is very bad to have a child even carried about by a dull,
inanimate, silent servant, who will never talk, sing or chirrup to it; who will but just carry
it about, always kept in the same attitude, and seeing and hearing nothing to give it life
and spirit. It requires nothing but a dull creature like this, and the washing and dressing
left to her, to give a child the rickets, and make it, instead of being a strong straight person,
tup-shinned, bow-kneed, or hump-backed; besides other ailments not visible to the eye. By-and-by,
when the deformity begins to appear, the doctor is called in, but it is too late: the mischief
is done; and a few months of neglect are punished by a life of mortification and sorrow, not
wholly unaccompanied with shame.

258. It is, therefore, a very spurious kind of tenderness that prevents a mother from doing
the things which, though disagreeable to the child, are so necessary to its lasting well-being.
The washing daily in the morning is a great thing; cold water winter or summer, and this never
left to a servant, who has not, in such a case, either the patience or the courage that is
necessary for the task. When the washing is over, and the child dressed in its day-clothes,
how gay and cheerful it looks! The exercise gives it appetite, and then disposes it to rest;
and it sucks and sleeps and grows, the delight of all eyes, and particularly those of the parents.
'I can't bear that squalling!' I have heard men say; and to which I answer, that 'I can't bear
such men!' There are, I thank God, very few of them; for, if they do not always reason about
the matter, honest nature teaches them to be considerate and indulgent towards little creatures
so innocent and so helpless and so unconscious of what they do. And the noise: after all, why
should it disturb a man? He knows the exact cause of it: he knows that it is the unavoidable
consequence of a great good to his child, and of course to him: it lasts but an hour, and the
recompense instantly comes in the looks of the rosy child, and in the new hopes which every
look excites. It never disturbed me, and my occupation was one of those most liable to disturbance
by noise. Many a score papers have I written amidst the noise of children, and in my whole
life never bade them be still. When they grew up to be big enough to gallop about the house,
I have, in wet weather, when they could not go out, written the whole day amidst noise that
would have made some authors half mad. It never annoyed me at all. But a Scotch piper, whom
an old lady, who lived beside us at Brompton, used to pay to come and play a long tune every
day, I was obliged to bribe into a breach of contract. That which you are pleased with, however
noisy, does not disturb you. That which is indifferent to you has not more effect. The rattle
of coaches, the clapper of a mill, the fall of water, leave your mind undisturbed. But the
sound of the pipe, awakening the idea of the lazy life of the piper, better paid than the labouring
man, drew the mind aside from its pursuit; and, as it really was a nuisance, occasioned by
the money of my neighbour, I thought myself justified in abating it by the same sort of means.

259. The cradle is in poor families necessary; because necessity compels the mother to get
as much time as she can for her work, and a child can rock the cradle. At first we had a cradle;
and I rocked the cradle, in great part, during the time that I was writing my first work, that
famous MAÎTRE D'ANGLAIS, which has long been the first book in Europe, as well as in America,
for teaching of French people the English language. But we left off the use of the cradle as
soon as possible. It causes sleep more, and oftener, than necessary: it saves trouble; but
to take trouble was our duty. After the second child, we had no cradle, however difficult at
first to do without it. When I was not at my business, it was generally my affair to put the
child to sleep: sometimes by sitting with it in my arms, and sometimes by lying down on a bed
with it, till it fell asleep. We soon found the good of this method. The children did not sleep
so much, but they slept more soundly. The cradle produces a sort of dosing, or dreaming sleep.
This is a matter of great importance, as every thing must be that has any influence on the
health of children. The poor must use the cradle, at least until they have other children big
enough to hold the baby, and to put it to sleep; and it is truly wonderful at how early an
age they, either girls or boys, will do this business faithfully and well. You see them in
the lanes, and on the skirts of woods and commons, lugging a baby about, when it sometimes
weighs half as much as the nurse. The poor mother is frequently compelled, in order to help
to get bread for her children, to go to a distance from home, and leave the group, baby and
all, to take care of the house and of themselves, the eldest of four or five, not, perhaps,
above six or seven years old; and it is quite surprising, that, considering the millions of
instances in which this is done in England, in the course of a year, so very, very few accidents
or injuries arise from the practice; and not a hundredth part so many as arise in the comparatively
few instances in which children are left to the care of servants. In summer time you see these
little groups rolling about up the green, or amongst the heath, not far from the cottage, and
at a mile, perhaps, from any other dwelling, the dog their only protector. And what fine and
straight and healthy and fearless and acute persons they become! It used to be remarked in
Philadelphia, when I lived there, that there was not a single man of any eminence, whether
doctor, lawyer, merchant, trader, or any thing else, that had not been born and bred in the
country, and of parents in a low state of life. Examine London, and you will find it much about
the same. From this very childhood they are from necessity entrusted with the care of something
valuable. They practically learn to think, and to calculate as to consequences. They are thus
taught to remember things; and it is quite surprising what memories they have, and how scrupulously
a little carter-boy will deliver half-a-dozen messages, each of a different purport from the
rest, to as many persons, all the messages committed to him at one and the same time, and he
not knowing one letter of the alphabet from another. When I want to remember something, and
am out in the field, and cannot write it down, I say to one of the men, or boys, come to me
at such a time, and tell me so and so. He is sure to do it; and I therefore look upon the memorandum
as written down. One of these children, boy or girl, is much more worthy of being entrusted
with the care of a baby, any body's baby, than a servant-maid with curled locks and with eyes
rolling about for admirers. The locks and the rolling eyes, very nice, and, for aught I know,
very proper things in themselves; but incompatible with the care of your baby, Ma'am; her mind
being absorbed in contemplating the interesting circumstances which are to precede her having
a sweet baby of her own; and a sweeter than yours, if you please, Ma'am; or, at least, such
will be her anticipations. And this is all right enough; it is natural that she should think
and feel thus; and knowing this, you are admonished that it is your bounden duty not to delegate
this sacred trust to any body.

260. The courage, of which I have spoken, so necessary in the case of washing the children
in spite of their screaming remonstrances, is, if possible, more necessary in cases of illness,
requiring the application of medicine, or of surgical means of cure. Here the heart is put
to the test indeed! Here is anguish to be endured by a mother, who has to force down the nauseous
physic, or to apply the tormenting plaster! Yet it is the mother, or the father, and more properly
the former, who is to perform this duty of exquisite pain. To no nurse, to no hireling, to
no alien hand, ought, if possible to avoid it, this task to be committed. I do not admire those
mothers who are too tender-hearted to inflict this pain on their children, and who, therefore,
leave it to be inflicted by others. Give me the mother who, while the tears stream down her
face, has the resolution scrupulously to execute, with her own hands, the doctor's commands.
Will a servant, will any hireling, do this? Committed to such hands, the least trouble will
be preferred to the greater: the thing will, in general, not be half done; and if done, the
suffering from such hands is far greater in the mind of the child than if it came from the
hands of the mother. In this case, above all others, there ought to be no delegation of the
parental office. Here life or limb is at stake; and the parent, man or woman, who, in any one
point, can neglect his or her duty here, is unworthy of the name of parent. And here, as in
all the other instances, where goodness in the parents towards the children gives such weight
to their advice when the children grow up, what a motive to filial gratitude! The children
who are old enough to deserve and remember, will witness this proof of love and self-devotion
in their mother. Each of them feels that she has done the same towards them all; and they love
her and admire and revere her accordingly.

261. This is the place to state my opinions, and the result of my experience, with regard to
that fearful disease the SMALL-POX; a subject, too, to which I have paid great attention. I
was always, from the very first mention of the thing, opposed to the Cow-Pox scheme. If efficacious
in preventing the Small-Pox, I objected to it merely on the score of its beastliness. There
are some things, surely, more hideous than death, and more resolutely to be avoided; at any
rate, more to be avoided than the mere risk of suffering death. And, amongst other things,
I always reckoned that of a parent causing the blood, and the diseased blood too, of a beast
to be put into the veins of human beings, and those beings the children of that parent. I,
therefore, as will be seen in the pages of the Register of that day, most strenuously opposed
the giving of twenty thousand pounds to JENNER out of the taxes, paid in great part by the
working people, which I deemed and asserted to be a scandalous waste of the public money.

262. I contended, that this beastly application could not, in nature, be efficacious in preventing
the Small-Pox; and that, even if efficacious for that purpose, it was wholly unnecessary. The
truth of the former of these assertions has now been proved in thousands upon thousands of
instances. For a long time, for ten years, the contrary was boldly and brazenly asserted. This
nation is fond of quackery of all sorts; and this particular quackery having been sanctioned
by King, Lords and Commons, it spread over the country like a pestilence borne by the winds.
Speedily sprang up the 'ROYAL Jennerian Institution,' and Branch Institutions, issuing from
the parent trunk, set instantly to work, impregnating the veins of the rising and enlightened
generation with the beastly matter. 'Gentlemen and Ladies' made the commodity a pocket-companion;
and if a cottager's child (in Hampshire at least), even seen by them, on a common, were not
pretty quick in taking to its heels, it had to carry off more or less of the disease of the
cow. One would have thought, that one-half of the cows in England must have been tapped to
get at such a quantity of the stuff.

263. In the midst of all this mad work, to which the doctors, after having found it in vain
to resist, had yielded, the real small-pox, in its worst form, broke out in the town of RINGWOOD,
in HAMPSHIRE, and carried off, I believe (I have not the account at hand), more than a hundred
persons, young and old, every one of whom had had the cow-pox 'so nicely!' And what was now
said? Was the quackery exploded, and were the granters of the twenty thousand pounds ashamed
of what they had done? Not at all: the failure was imputed to unskilful operators; to the staleness
of the matter; to its not being of the genuine quality. Admitting all this, the scheme stood
condemned; for the great advantages held forth were, that any body might perform the operation,
and that the matter was every where abundant and cost-free. But these were paltry excuses;
the mere shuffles of quackery; for what do we know now? Why, that in hundreds of instances,
persons cow-poxed by JENNER HIMSELF, have taken the real small-pox afterwards, and have either
died from the disorder, or narrowly escaped with their lives! I will mention two instances,
the parties concerned being living and well-known, one of them to the whole nation, and the
other to a very numerous circle in the higher walks of life. The first is Sir RICHARD PHILLIPS,
so well known by his able writings, and equally well known by his exemplary conduct as Sheriff
of London, and by his life-long labours in the cause of real charity and humanity. Sir Richard
had, I think, two sons, whose veins were impregnated by the grantee himself. At any rate he
had one, who had, several years after Jenner had given him the insuring matter, a very hard
struggle for his life, under the hands of the good, old-fashioned, seam-giving, and dimple-dipping
small-pox. The second is PHILIP CODD, Esq., formerly of Kensington, and now of Rumsted Court,
near Maidstone, in Kent, who has a son that had a very narrow escape under the real small-pox,
about four years ago, and who also had been cow-poxed by Jenner himself. This last-mentioned
gentleman I have known, and most sincerely respected, from the time of our both being about
eighteen years of age. When the young gentleman, of whom I am now speaking, was very young,
I having him upon my knee one day, asked his kind and excellent mother, whether he had been
inoculated. 'Oh, no!' said she, 'we are going to have him vaccinated.' Whereupon I, going into
the garden to the father, said, 'I do hope, Codd, that you are not going to have that beastly
cow-stuff put into that fine boy.' 'Why,' said he, 'you see, Cobbett, it is to be done by Jenner
himself.' What answer I gave, what names and epithets I bestowed upon Jenner and his quackery,
I will leave the reader to imagine.

264. Now, here are instances enough; but, every reader has heard of, if not seen, scores of
others. Young Mr. Codd caught the small-pox at a school; and if I recollect rightly, there
were several other 'vaccinated' youths who did the same, at the same time. Quackery, however,
has always a shuffle left. Now that the cow-pox has been proved to be no guarantee against
the small-pox, it makes it' milder' when it comes! A pretty shuffle, indeed, this! You are
to be all your life in fear of it, having as your sole consolation, that when it comes (and
it may overtake you in a camp, or on the seas), it will be 'milder!' It was not too mild to
kill at RINGWOOD; and its mildness, in case of young Mr. Codd, did not restrain it from blinding
him for a suitable number of days. I shall not easily forget the alarm and anxiety of the father
and mother upon this occasion; both of them the best of parents, and both of them now punished
for having yielded to this fashionable quackery. I will not say, justly punished; for affection
for their children, in which respect they were never surpassed by any parents on earth, was
the cause of their listening to the danger-obviating quackery. This, too, is the case with
other parents; but parents should be under the influence of reason and experience, as well
as under that of affection; and now, at any rate, they ought to set this really dangerous quackery
at nought.

265. And, what does my own experience say on the other side? There are my seven children, the
sons as tall, or nearly so, as their father, and the daughters as tall as their mother; all,
in due succession, inoculated with the good old-fashioned face-tearing small-pox; neither of
them with a single mark of that disease on their skins; neither of them having been, that we
could perceive, ill for a single hour, in consequence of the inoculation. When we were in the
United States, we observed that the Americans were never marked with the small-pox; or, if
such a thing were seen, it was very rarely. The cause we found to be, the universal practice
of having the children inoculated at the breast, and, generally, at a month or six weeks old.
When we came to have children, we did the same. I believe that some of ours have been a few
months old when the operation has been performed, but always while at the breast, and as early
as possible after the expiration of six weeks from the birth; sometimes put off a little while
by some slight disorder in the child, or on account of some circumstance or other; but, with
these exceptions, done at, or before, the end of six weeks from the birth, and always at the
breast. All is then pure: there is nothing in either body or mind to favour the natural fury
of the disease. We always took particular care about the source from which the infectious matter
came. We employed medical men, in whom we could place perfect confidence: we had their solemn
word for the matter coming from some healthy child; and, at last, we had sometimes to wait
for this, the cow-affair having rendered patients of this sort rather rare.

266. While the child has the small-pox, the mother should abstain from food and drink, which
she may require at other times, but which might be too gross just now. To suckle a hearty child
requires good living; for, besides that this is necessary to the mother, it is also necessary
to the child. A little forbearance, just at this time, is prudent; making the diet as simple
as possible, and avoiding all violent agitation either of the body or the spirits; avoiding
too, if you can, very hot or very cold weather.

267. There is now, however, this inconvenience, that the far greater part of the present young
women have been be-Jennered; so that they may catch the beauty-killing disease from their babies!
To hearten them up, however, and more especially, I confess, to record a trait of maternal
affection and of female heroism, which I have never heard of any thing to surpass, I have the
pride to say, that my wife had eight children inoculated at her breast, and never had the small-pox
in her life. I, at first, objected to the inoculating of the child, but she insisted upon it,
and with so much pertinacity that I gave way, on condition that she would be inoculated too.
This was done with three or four of the children, I think, she always being reluctant to have
it done, saying that it looked like distrusting the goodness of God. There was, to be sure,
very little in this argument; but the long experience wore away the alarm; and there she is
now, having had eight children hanging at her breast with that desolating disease in them,
and she never having been affected by it from first to last. All her children knew, of course,
the risk that she voluntarily incurred for them. They all have this indubitable proof, that
she valued their lives above her own; and is it in nature, that they should ever wilfully do
any thing to wound the heart of that mother; and must not her bright example have great effect
on their character and conduct! Now, my opinion is, that the far greater part of English or
American women, if placed in the above circumstances, would do just the same thing; and I do
hope, that those, who have yet to be mothers, will seriously think of putting an end, as they
have the power to do, to the disgraceful and dangerous quackery, the evils of which I have
so fully proved.

268. But there is, in the management of babies, something besides life, health, strength and
beauty; and something too, without which all these put together are nothing worth; and that
is sanity of mind. There are, owing to various causes, some who are born ideots; but a great
many more become insane from the misconduct, or neglect, of parents; and, generally, from the
children being committed to the care of servants. I knew, in Pennsylvania, a child, as fine,
and as sprightly, and as intelligent a child as ever was born, made an ideot for life by being,
when about three years old, shut into a dark closet, by a maid servant, in order to terrify
it into silence. The thoughtless creature first menaced it with sending it to 'the bad place,'
as the phrase is there; and, at last, to reduce it to silence, put it into the closet, shut
the door, and went out of the room. She went back, in a few minutes, and found the child in
a fit. It recovered from that, but was for life an ideot. When the parents, who had been out
two days and two nights on a visit of pleasure, came home, they were told that the child had
had a fit; but, they were not told the cause. The girl, however, who was a neighbour's daughter,
being on her death-bed about ten years afterwards, could not die in peace without sending for
the mother of the child (now become a young man) and asking forgiveness of her. The mother
herself was, however, the greatest offender of the two: a whole lifetime of sorrow and of mortification
was a punishment too light for her and her husband. Thousands upon thousands of human beings
have been deprived of their senses by these and similar means.

269. It is not long since that we read, in the newspapers, of a child being absolutely killed,
at Birmingham, I think it was, by being thus frightened. The parents had gone out into what
is called an evening party. The servants, naturally enough, had their party at home; and the
mistress, who, by some unexpected accident, had been brought home at an early hour, finding
the parlour full of company, ran up stairs to see about her child, about two or three years
old. She found it with its eyes open, but fixed; touching it, she found it inanimate. The doctor
was sent for in vain: it was quite dead. The maid affected to know nothing of the cause; but
some one of the parties assembled discovered, pinned up to the curtains of the bed, a horrid
figure, made up partly of a frightful mask! This, as the wretched girl confessed, had been
done to keep the child quiet, while she was with her company below. When one reflects on the
anguish that the poor little thing must have endured, before the life was quite frightened
out of it, one can find no terms sufficiently strong to express the abhorrence due to the perpetrator
of this crime, which was, in fact, a cruel murder; and, if it was beyond the reach of the law,
it was so and is so, because, as in the cases of parricide, the law, in making no provision
for punishment peculiarly severe, has, out of respect to human nature, supposed such crimes
to be impossible. But if the girl was criminal; if death, or a life of remorse, was her due,
what was the due of her parents, and especially of the mother! And what was the due of the
father, who suffered that mother, and who, perhaps, tempted her to neglect her most sacred duty!

270. If this poor child had been deprived of its mental faculties, instead of being deprived
of its life, the cause would, in all likelihood, never have been discovered. The insanity would
have been ascribed to 'brain-fever,' or to some other of the usual causes of insanity; or,
as in thousands upon thousands of instances, to some unaccountable cause. When I was, in No.
IX., paragraphs from 227 to 233, both inclusive, maintaining with all my might, the unalienable
right of the child to the milk of its mother, I omitted, amongst the evils arising from banishing
the child from the mother's breast, to mention, or, rather, it had never occurred to me to
mention, the loss of reason to the poor, innocent creatures, thus banished. And now, as connected
with this measure, I have an argument of experience, enough to terrify every young man and
woman upon earth from the thought of committing this offence against nature. I wrote No. IX.
at CAMBRIDGE, on Sunday, the 28th of March; and before I quitted SHREWSBURY, on the 14th of
May, the following facts reached my ears. A very respectable tradesman, who, with his wife,
have led a most industrious life, in a town that it is not necessary to name, said to a gentleman
that told it to me: 'I wish to God I had read No. IX. of Mr. Cobbett's ADVICE TO YOUNG MEN
fifteen years ago!' He then related, that he had had ten children, all put out to be suckled,
in consequence of the necessity of his having the mother's assistance to carry on his business;
and that two out of the ten had come home ideots; though the rest were all sane, and though
insanity had never been known in the family of either father or mother! These parents, whom
I myself saw, are very clever people, and the wife singularly industrious and expert in her
affairs.

271. Now the motive, in this case, unquestionably was good; it was that the mother's valuable
time might, as much as possible, be devoted to the earning of a competence for her children.
But, alas! what is this competence to these two unfortunate beings! And what is the competence
to the rest, when put in the scale against the mortification that they must, all their lives,
suffer on account of the insanity of their brother and sister, exciting, as it must, in all
their circle, and even in themselves, suspicions of their own perfect soundness of mind! When
weighed against this consideration, what is all the wealth in the world! And as to the parents,
where are they to find compensation for such a calamity, embittered additionally, too, by the
reflection, that it was in their power to prevent it, and that nature, with loud voice, cried
out to them to prevent it! MONEY! Wealth acquired in consequence of this banishment of these
poor children; these victims of this, I will not call it avarice, but over-eager love of gain!
wealth, thus acquired! What wealth can console these parents for the loss of reason in these
children! Where is the father and the mother, who would not rather see their children ploughing
in other men's fields, and sweeping other men's houses, than led about parks or houses of their
own, objects of pity even of the menials procured by their wealth?

272. If what I have now said be not sufficient to deter a man from suffering any consideration,
no matter what, to induce him to delegate the care of his children, when very young, to any
body whomsoever, nothing that I can say can possibly have that effect; and I will, therefore,
now proceed to offer my advice with regard to the management of children when they get beyond
the danger of being crazed or killed by nurses or servants.

273. We here come to the subject of education in the true sense of that word, which is rearing
up, seeing that the word comes from the Latin educo, which means to breed up, or to rear up.
I shall, afterwards, have to speak of education in the now common acceptation of the word,
which makes it mean, book-learning. At present, I am to speak of education in its true sense,
as the French (who, as well as we, take the word from the Latin) always use it. They, in their
agricultural works, talk of the 'éducation du Cochon, de l'Alouette, &c.,' that is of the hog,
the lark, and so of other animals; that is to say, of the manner of breeding them, or rearing
them up, from their being little things till they be of full size.

274. The first thing, in the rearing of children, who have passed from the baby-state, is,
as to the body, plenty of good food; and, as to the mind, constant good example in the parents.
Of the latter I shall speak more by-and-by. With regard to the former, it is of the greatest
importance, that children be well fed; and there never was a greater error than to believe
that they do not need good food. Every one knows, that to have fine horses, the colts must
be kept well, and that it is the same with regard to all animals of every sort and kind. The
fine horses and cattle and sheep all come from the rich pastures. To have them fine, it is
not sufficient that they have plenty of food when young, but that they have rich food. Were
there no land, no pasture, in England, but such as is found in Middlesex, Essex, and Surrey,
we should see none of those coach-horses and dray-horses, whose height and size make us stare.
It is the keep when young that makes the fine animal.

275. There is no other reason for the people in the American States being generally so much
taller and stronger than the people in England are. Their forefathers went, for the greater
part, from England. In the four Northern States they went wholly from England, and then, on
their landing, they founded a new London, a new Falmouth, a new Plymouth, a new Portsmouth,
a new Dover, a new Yarmouth, a new Lynn, a new Boston, and a new Hull, and the country itself
they called, and their descendants still call, NEW ENGLAND. This country of the best and boldest
seamen, and of the most moral and happy people in the world, is also the country of the tallest
and ablest-bodied men in the world. And why? Because, from their very birth, they have an abundance
of good food; not only of food, but of rich food. Even when the child is at the breast, a strip
of beef-stake, or something of that description, as big and as long as one's finger, is put
into its hand. When a baby gets a thing in its hand, the first thing it does is to poke some
part of it into its mouth. It cannot bite the meat, but its gums squeeze out the juice. When
it has done with the breast, it eats meat constantly twice, if not thrice, a day. And this
abundance of good food is the cause, to be sure, of the superior size and strength of the people
of that country.

276. Nor is this, in any point of view, an unimportant matter. A tall man is, whether as labourer,
carpenter, bricklayer, soldier or sailor, or almost anything else, worth more than a short
man: he can look over a higher thing; he can reach higher and wider; he can move on from place
to place faster; in mowing grass or corn he takes a wider swarth, in pitching he wants a shorter
prong; in making buildings he does not so soon want a ladder or a scaffold; in fighting he
keeps his body farther from the point of his sword. To be sure, a man may be tall and weak;
but, this is the exception and not the rule: height and weight and strength, in men as in speechless
animals, generally go together. Aye, and in enterprise and courage too, the powers of the body
have a great deal to do. Doubtless there are, have been, and always will be, great numbers
of small and enterprizing and brave men; but it is not in nature, that, generally speaking,
those who are conscious of their inferiority in point of bodily strength, should possess the
boldness of those who have a contrary description.

277. To what but this difference in the size and strength of the opposing combatants are we
to ascribe the ever-to-be-blushed-at events of our last war against the United States! The
hearts of our seamen and soldiers were as good as those of the Yankees: on both sides they
had sprung from the same stock: on both sides equally well supplied with all the materials
of war: if on either side, the superior skill was on ours: French, Dutch, Spaniards, all had
confessed our superior prowess: yet, when, with our whole undivided strength, and to that strength
adding the flush and pride of victory and conquest, crowned even in the capital of France;
when, with all these tremendous advantages, and with all the nations of the earth looking on,
we came foot to foot and yard-arm to yard-arm with the Americans, the result was such as an
English pen refuses to describe. What, then, was the great cause of this result, which filled
us with shame and the world with astonishment? Not the want of courage in our men. There were,
indeed, some moral causes at work; but the main cause was, the great superiority of size and
of bodily strength on the part of the enemy's soldiers and sailors. It was so many men on each
side; but it was men of a different size and strength; and, on the side of the foe, men accustomed
to daring enterprise from a consciousness of that strength.

278. Why are abstinence and fasting enjoined by the Catholic Church? Why, to make men humble,
meek, and tame; and they have this effect too: this is visible in whole nations as well as
in individuals. So that good food, and plenty of it, is not more necessary to the forming of
a stout and able body than to the forming of an active and enterprizing spirit. Poor food,
short allowance, while they check the growth of the child's body, check also the daring of
the mind; and, therefore, the starving or pinching system ought to be avoided by all means.
Children should eat often, and as much as they like at a time. They will, if at full heap,
never take, of plain food, more than it is good for them to take. They may, indeed, be stuffed
with cakes and sweet things till they be ill, and, indeed, until they bring on dangerous disorders:
but, of meat plainly and well cooked, and of bread, they will never swallow the tenth part
of an ounce more than it is necessary for them to swallow. Ripe fruit, or cooked fruit, if
no sweetening take place, will never hurt them; but, when they once get a taste for sugary
stuff, and to cram down loads of garden vegetables; when ices, creams, tarts, raisins, almonds,
all the endless pamperings come, the doctor must soon follow with his drugs. The blowing out
of the bodies of children with tea, coffee, soup, or warm liquids of any kind, is very bad:
these have an effect precisely like that which is produced by feeding young rabbits, or pigs,
or other young animals upon watery vegetables: it makes them big-bellied and bare-boned at
the same time; and it effectually prevents the frame from becoming strong. Children in health
want no drink other than skim milk, or butter-milk, or whey; and, if none of those be at hand,
water will do very well, provided they have plenty of good meat. Cheese and butter do very
well for part of the day. Puddings and pies; but always without sugar, which, say what people
will about the wholesomeness of it, is not only of no use in the rearing of children, but injurious:
it forces an appetite: like strong drink, it makes daily encroachments on the taste: it wheedles
down that which the stomach does not want: it finally produces illness: it is one of the curses
of the country; for it, by taking off the bitter of the tea and coffee, is the great cause
of sending down into the stomach those quantities of warm water by which the body is debilitated
and deformed and the mind enfeebled. I am addressing myself to persons in the middle walk of
life; but no parent can be sure that his child will not be compelled to labour hard for its
daily bread: and then, how vast is the difference between one who has been pampered with sweets
and one who has been reared on plain food and simple drink!

279. The next thing after good and plentiful and plain food is good air. This is not within
the reach of every one; but, to obtain it is worth great sacrifices in other respects. We know
that there are smells which will cause instant death; we know, that there are others which
will cause death in a few years; and, therefore, we know that it is the duty of parents to
provide, if possible, against this danger to the health of their offspring. To be sure, when
a man is so situated that he cannot give his children sweet air without putting himself into
a jail for debt: when, in short, he has the dire choice of sickly children, children with big
heads, small limbs, and ricketty joints: or children sent to the poor-house: when this is his
hard lot, he must decide for the former sad alternative: but before he will convince me that
this is his lot, he must prove to me, that he and his wife expend not a penny in the decoration
of their persons; that on his table, morning, noon, or night, nothing ever comes that is not
the produce of English soil; that of his time not one hour is wasted in what is called pleasure;
that down his throat not one drop or morsel ever goes, unless necessary to sustain life and
health. How many scores and how many hundreds of men have I seen; how many thousands could
I go and point out, to-morrow, in London, the money expended on whose guzzlings in porter,
grog and wine, would keep, and keep well, in the country, a considerable part of the year,
a wife surrounded by healthy children, instead of being stewed up in some alley, or back room,
with a parcel of poor creatures about her, whom she, though their fond mother, is almost ashamed
to call hers! Compared with the life of such a woman, that of the labourer, however poor, is
paradise. Tell me not of the necessity of providing money for them, even if you waste not a
farthing: you can provide them with no money equal in value to health and straight limbs and
good looks: these it is, if within your power, your bounden duty to provide for them: as to
providing them with money, you deceive yourself; it is your own avarice, or vanity, that you
are seeking to gratify, and not to ensure the good of your children. Their most precious possession
is health and strength; and you have no right to run the risk of depriving them of these for
the sake of heaping together money to bestow on them: you have the desire to see them rich:
it is to gratify yourself that you act in such a case; and you, however you may deceive yourself,
are guilty of injustice towards them. You would be ashamed to see them without fortune; but
not at all ashamed to see them without straight limbs, without colour in their cheeks, without
strength, without activity, and with only half their due portion of reason.

280. Besides sweet air, children want exercise. Even when they are babies in arms, they want
tossing and pulling about, and want talking and singing to. They should be put upon their feet
by slow degrees, according to the strength of their legs; and this is a matter which a good
mother will attend to with incessant care. If they appear to be likely to squint, she will,
always when they wake up, and frequently in the day, take care to present some pleasing object
right before, and never on the side of their face. If they appear, when they begin to talk,
to indicate a propensity to stammer, she will stop them, repeat the word or words slowly herself,
and get them to do the same. These precautions are amongst the most sacred of the duties of
parents; for, remember, the deformity is for life; a thought which will fill every good parent's
heart with solicitude. All swaddling and tight covering are mischievous. They produce distortions
of some sort or other. To let children creep and roll about till they get upon their legs of
themselves is a very good way. I never saw a native American with crooked limbs or hump-back,
and never heard any man say that he had seen one. And the reason is, doubtless, the loose dress
in which children, from the moment of their birth, are kept, the good food that they always
have, and the sweet air that they breathe in consequence of the absence of all dread of poverty
on the part of the parents.

281. As to bodily exercise, they will, when they begin to get about, take, if you let them
alone, just as much of it as nature bids them, and no more. That is a pretty deal, indeed,
if they be in health; and, it is your duty, now, to provide for their taking of that exercise,
when they begin to be what are called boys and girls, in a way that shall tend to give them
the greatest degree of pleasure, accompanied with the smallest risk of pain: in other words,
to make their lives as pleasant as you possibly can. I have always admired the sentiment of
ROUSSEAU upon this subject. 'The boy dies, perhaps, at the age of ten or twelve. Of what use,
then, all the restraints, all the privations, all the pain, that you have inflicted upon him?
He falls, and leaves your mind to brood over the possibility of your having abridged a life
so dear to you.' I do not recollect the very words; but the passage made a deep impression
upon my mind, just at the time, too, when I was about to become a father; and I was resolved
never to bring upon myself remorse from such a cause; a resolution from which no importunities,
coming from what quarter they might, ever induced me, in one single instance, or for one single
moment, to depart. I was resolved to forego all the means of making money, all the means of
living in any thing like fashion, all the means of obtaining fame or distinction, to give up
every thing, to become a common labourer, rather than make my children lead a life of restraint
and rebuke; I could not be sure that my children would love me as they loved their own lives;
but I was, at any rate, resolved to deserve such love at their hands; and, in possession of
that, I felt that I could set calamity, of whatever description, at defiance.

282. Now, proceeding to relate what was, in this respect, my line of conduct, I am not pretending
that every man, and particularly every man living in a town, can, in all respects, do as I
did in the rearing up of children. But, in many respects, any man may, whatever may be his
state of life. For I did not lead an idle life; I had to work constantly for the means of living;
my occupation required unremitted attention; I had nothing but my labour to rely on; and I
had no friend, to whom, in case of need, I could fly for assistance: I always saw the possibility,
and even the probability, of being totally ruined by the hand of power; but, happen what would,
I was resolved, that, as long as I could cause them to do it, my children should lead happy
lives; and happy lives they did lead, if ever children did in this whole world.

283. The first thing that I did, when the fourth child had come, was to get into the country,
and so far as to render a going backward and forward to London, at short intervals, quite out
of the question. Thus was health, the greatest of all things, provided for, as far as I was
able to make the provision. Next, my being always at home was secured as far as possible; always
with them to set an example of early rising, sobriety, and application to something or other.
Children, and especially boys, will have some out-of-door pursuits; and it was my duty to lead
them to choose such pursuits as combined future utility with present innocence. Each his flower-bed,
little garden, plantation of trees; rabbits, dogs, asses, horses, pheasants and hares; hoes,
spades, whips, guns; always some object of lively interest, and as much earnestness and bustle
about the various objects as if our living had solely depended upon them. I made everything
give way to the great object of making their lives happy and innocent. I did not know what
they might be in time, or what might be my lot; but I was resolved not to be the cause of their
being unhappy then, let what might become of us afterwards. I was, as I am, of opinion, that
it is injurious to the mind to press book-learning upon it at an early age: I always felt pain
for poor little things, set up, before 'company,' to repeat verses, or bits of plays, at six
or eight years old. I have sometimes not known which way to look, when a mother (and, too often,
a father), whom I could not but respect on account of her fondness for her child, has forced
the feeble-voiced eighth wonder of the world, to stand with its little hand stretched out,
spouting the soliloquy of Hamlet, or some such thing. I remember, on one occasion, a little
pale-faced creature, only five years old, was brought in, after the feeding part of the dinner
was over, first to take his regular half-glass of vintner's brewings, commonly called wine,
and then to treat us to a display of his wonderful genius. The subject was a speech of a robust
and bold youth, in a Scotch play, the title of which I have forgotten, but the speech began
with, 'My name is Norval: on the Grampian Hills my father fed his flocks...' And this in a
voice so weak and distressing as to put me in mind of the plaintive squeaking of little pigs
when the sow is lying on them. As we were going home (one of my boys and I) he, after a silence
of half a mile perhaps, rode up close to the side of my horse, and said, 'Papa, where be the
Grampian Hills?' 'Oh,' said I, 'they are in Scotland; poor, barren, beggarly places, covered
with heath and rushes, ten times as barren as Sherril Heath.' 'But,' said he, 'how could that
little boy's father feed his flocks there, then?' I was ready to tumble off the horse with
laughing.

284. I do not know any thing much more distressing to the spectators than exhibitions of this
sort. Every one feels, not for the child, for it is insensible to the uneasiness it excites,
but for the parents, whose amiable fondness displays itself in this ridiculous manner. Upon
these occasions, no one knows what to say, or whither to direct his looks. The parents, and
especially the fond mother, looks sharply round for the so-evidently merited applause, as an
actor of the name of MUNDEN, whom I recollect thirty years ago, used, when he had treated us
to a witty shrug of his shoulders, or twist of his chin, to turn his face up to the gallery
for the clap. If I had to declare on my oath which have been the most disagreeable moments
of my life, I verily believe, that, after due consideration, I should fix upon those, in which
parents, whom I have respected, have made me endure exhibitions like these; for, this is your
choice, to be insincere, or to give offence.

285. And, as towards the child, it is to be unjust, thus to teach it to set a high value on
trifling, not to say mischievous, attainments; to make it, whether it be in its natural disposition
or not, vain and conceited. The plaudits which it receives, in such cases, puffs it up in its
own thoughts, sends it out into the world stuffed with pride and insolence, which must and
will be extracted out of it by one means or another; and none but those who have had to endure
the drawing of firmly-fixed teeth, can, I take it, have an adequate idea of the painfulness
of this operation. Now, parents have no right thus to indulge their own feelings at the risk
of the happiness of their children.

286. The great matter is, however, the spoiling of the mind by forcing on it thoughts which
it is not fit to receive. We know well, we daily see, that in men, as well as in other animals,
the body is rendered comparatively small and feeble by being heavily loaded, or hard worked,
before it arrive at size and strength proportioned to such load and such work. It is just so
with the mind: the attempt to put old heads upon young shoulders is just as unreasonable as
it would be to expect a colt six months old to be able to carry a man. The mind, as well as
the body, requires time to come to its strength; and the way to have it possess, at last, its
natural strength, is not to attempt to load it too soon; and to favour it in its progress by
giving to the body good and plentiful food, sweet air, and abundant exercise, accompanied with
as little discontent or uneasiness as possible. It is universally known, that ailments of the
body are, in many cases, sufficient to destroy the mind, and to debilitate it in innumerable
instances. It is equally well known, that the torments of the mind are, in many cases, sufficient
to destroy the body. This, then, being so well known, is it not the first duty of a father
to secure to his children, if possible, sound and strong bodies? LORD BACON says, that 'a sound
mind in a sound body is the greatest of God's blessings.' To see his children possess these,
therefore, ought to be the first object with every father; an object which I cannot too often
endeavour to fix in his mind.

287. I am to speak presently of that sort of learning which is derived from books, and which
is a matter by no means to be neglected, or to be thought little of, seeing that it is the
road, not only to fame, but to the means of doing great good to one's neighbours and to one's
country, and, thereby, of adding to those pleasant feelings which are, in other words, our
happiness. But, notwithstanding this, I must here insist, and endeavour to impress my opinion
upon the mind of every father, that his children's happiness ought to be first object; that
book-learning, if it tend to militate against this, ought to be disregarded; and that, as to
money, as to fortune, as to rank and title, that father who can, in the destination of his
children, think of them more than of the happiness of those children, is, if he be of sane
mind, a great criminal. Who is there, having lived to the age of thirty, or even twenty, years,
and having the ordinary capacity for observation; who is there, being of this description,
who must not be convinced of the inadequacy of riches and what are called honours to insure
happiness? Who, amongst all the classes of men, experience, on an average, so little of real
pleasure, and so much of real pain as the rich and the lofty? Pope gives us, as the materials
for happiness, 'health, peace, and competence.' Aye, but what is peace, and what is competence?
If, by peace, he mean that tranquillity of mind which innocence and good deeds produce, he
is right and clear so far; for we all know that, without health, which has a well-known positive
meaning, there can be no happiness. But competence is a word of unfixed meaning. It may, with
some, mean enough to eat, drink, wear and be lodged and warmed with; but, with others, it may
include horses, carriages, and footmen laced over from top to toe. So that, here, we have no
guide; no standard; and, indeed, there can be none. But as every sensible father must know
that the possession of riches do not, never did, and never can, afford even a chance of additional
happiness, it is his duty to inculcate in the minds of his children to make no sacrifice of
principle, of moral obligation of any sort, in order to obtain riches, or distinction; and
it is a duty still more imperative on him, not to expose them to the risk of loss of health,
or diminution of strength, for purposes which have, either directly or indirectly, the acquiring
of riches in view, whether for himself or for them.

288. With these principles immoveably implanted in my mind, I became the father of a family,
and on these principles I have reared that family. Being myself fond of book-learning, and
knowing well its powers, I naturally wished them to possess it too; but never did I impose
it upon any one of them. My first duty was to make them healthy and strong if I could, and
to give them as much enjoyment of life as possible. Born and bred up in the sweet air myself,
I was resolved that they should be bred up in it too. Enjoying rural scenes and sports, as
I had done, when a boy, as much as any one that ever was born, I was resolved, that they should
have the same enjoyments tendered to them. When I was a very little boy, I was, in the barley-sowing
season, going along by the side of a field, near WAVERLY ABBEY; the primroses and blue-bells
bespangling the banks on both sides of me; a thousand linnets singing in a spreading oak over
my head; while the jingle of the traces and the whistling of the ploughboys saluted my ear
from over the hedge; and, as it were to snatch me from the enchantment, the hounds, at that
instant, having started a hare in the hanger on the other side of the field, came up scampering
over it in full cry, taking me after them many a mile. I was not more than eight years old;
but this particular scene has presented itself to my mind many times every year from that day
to this. I always enjoy it over again; and I was resolved to give, if possible, the same enjoyments
to my children.

289. Men's circumstances are so various; there is such a great variety in their situations
in life, their business, the extent of their pecuniary means, the local state in which they
are placed, their internal resources; the variety in all these respects is so great, that,
as applicable to every family, it would be impossible to lay down any set of rules, or maxims,
touching every matter relating to the management and rearing up of children. In giving an account,
therefore, of my own conduct, in this respect, I am not to be understood as supposing, that
every father can, or ought, to attempt to do the same; but while it will be seen, that there
are many, and these the most important parts of that conduct, that all fathers may imitate,
if they choose, there is no part of it which thousands and thousands of fathers might not adopt
and pursue, and adhere to, to the very letter.

290. I effected every thing without scolding, and even without command. My children are a family
of scholars, each sex its appropriate species of learning; and, I could safely take my oath,
that I never ordered a child of mine, son or daughter, to look into a book, in my life. My
two eldest sons, when about eight years old, were, for the sake of their health, placed for
a very short time, at a Clergyman's at MICHELDEVER, and my eldest daughter, a little older,
at a school a few miles from Botley, to avoid taking them to London in the winter. But, with
these exceptions, never had they, while children, teacher of any description; and I never,
and nobody else ever, taught any one of them to read, write, or any thing else, except in conversation;
and, yet, no man was ever more anxious to be the father of a family of clever and learned persons.

291. I accomplished my purpose indirectly. The first thing of all was health, which was secured
by the deeply-interesting and never-ending sports of the field and pleasures of the garden.
Luckily these things were treated of in books and pictures of endless variety; so that on wet
days, in long evenings, these came into play. A large, strong table, in the middle of the room,
their mother sitting at her work, used to be surrounded with them, the baby, if big enough,
set up in a high chair. Here were ink-stands, pens, pencils, India rubber, and paper, all in
abundance, and every one scrabbled about as he or she pleased. There were prints of animals
of all sorts; books treating of them: others treating of gardening, of flowers, of husbandry,
of hunting, coursing, shooting, fishing, planting, and, in short, of every thing, with regard
to which we had something to do. One would be trying to imitate a bit of my writing, another
drawing the pictures of some of our dogs or horses, a third poking over Bewick's Quadrupeds
and picking out what he said about them; but our book of never-failing resource was the French
MAISON RUSTIQUE, or FARM-HOUSE, which, it is said, was the book that first tempted DUQUESNOIS
(I think that was the name), the famous physician, in the reign of Louis XIV., to learn to
read. Here are all the four-legged animals, from the horse down to the mouse, portraits and
all; all the birds, reptiles, insects; all the modes of rearing, managing, and using the tame
ones; all the modes of taking the wild ones, and of destroying those that are mischievous;
all the various traps, springs, nets; all the implements of husbandry and gardening; all the
labours of the field and the garden exhibited, as well as the rest, in plates; and, there was
I, in my leisure moments, to join this inquisitive group, to read the French, and tell them
what it meaned in English, when the picture did not sufficiently explain itself. I never have
been without a copy of this book for forty years, except during the time that I was fleeing
from the dungeons of CASTLEREAGH and SIDMOUTH, in 1817; and, when I got to Long Island, the
first book I bought was another MAISON RUSTIQUE.

292. What need had we of schools? What need of teachers? What need of scolding and force, to
induce children to read, write, and love books? What need of cards, dice, or of any games,
to 'kill time;' but, in fact, to implant in the infant heart a love of gaming, one of the most
destructive of all human vices? We did not want to 'kill time;' we were always busy, wet weather
or dry weather, winter or summer. There was no force in any case; no command; no authority;
none of these was ever wanted. To teach the children the habit of early rising was a great
object; and every one knows how young people cling to their beds, and how loth they are to
go to those beds. This was a capital matter; because, here were industry and health both at
stake. Yet, I avoided command even here; and merely offered a reward. The child that was down
stairs first, was called the LARK for that day; and, further, sat at my right hand at dinner.
They soon discovered, that to rise early, they must go to bed early; and thus was this most
important object secured, with regard to girls as well as boys. Nothing more inconvenient,
and, indeed, more disgusting, than to have to do with girls, or young women, who lounge in
bed: 'A little more sleep, a little more slumber, a little more folding of the hands to sleep.'
SOLOMON knew them well: he had, I dare say, seen the breakfast cooling, carriages and horses
and servants waiting, the sun coming burning on, the day wasting, the night growing dark too
early, appointments broken, and the objects of journeys defeated; and all this from the lolloping
in bed of persons who ought to have risen with the sun. No beauty, no modesty, no accomplishments,
are a compensation for the effects of laziness in women; and, of all the proofs of laziness,
none is so unequivocal as that of lying late in bed. Love makes men overlook this vice (for
it is a vice), for a while; but, this does not last for life. Besides, health demands early
rising: the management of a house imperiously demands it; but health, that most precious possession,
without which there is nothing else worth possessing, demands it too. The morning air is the
most wholesome and strengthening: even in crowded cities, men might do pretty well with the
aid of the morning air; but, how are they to rise early, if they go to bed late?

293. When my business kept me away from the scrabbling-table, a petition often came, that I
would go and talk with the group, and the bearer generally was the youngest, being the most
likely to succeed.

294.

295.

296. Now, what sagacity in these birds, to discover that those were places of safety! And how
happy must it have made us, the parents, to be sure that our children had thus deeply imbibed
habits the contrary of cruelty! For, be it engraven on your heart, YOUNG MAN, that, whatever
appearances may say to the contrary, cruelty is always accompanied with cowardice, and also
with perfidy, when that is called for by the circumstances of the case; and that habitual acts
of cruelty to other creatures, will, nine times out of ten, produce, when the power is possessed,
cruelty to human beings. The ill-usage of horses, and particularly asses, is a grave and a
just charge against this nation. No other nation on earth is guilty of it to the same extent.
Not only by blows, but by privation, are we cruel towards these useful, docile, and patient
creatures; and especially towards the last, which is the most docile and patient and laborious
of the two, while the food that satisfies it, is of the coarsest and least costly kind, and
in quantity so small! In the habitual ill-treatment of this animal, which, in addition to all
its labours, has the milk taken from its young ones to administer a remedy for our ailments,
there is something that bespeaks ingratitude hardly to be described. In a REGISTER that I wrote
from Long Island, I said, that amongst all the things of which I had been bereft, I regretted
no one so much as a very diminutive mare, on which my children had all, in succession, learned
to ride. She was become useless for them, and, indeed, for any other purpose; but the recollection
of her was so entwined with so many past circumstances, which, at that distance, my mind conjured
up, that I really was very uneasy, lest she should fall into cruel hands. By good luck, she
was, after a while, turned out on the wide world to shift for herself; and when we got back,
and had a place for her to stand in, from her native forest we brought her to Kensington, and
she is now at Barn-Elm, about twenty-six years old, and I dare say, as fat as a mole. Now,
not only have I no moral right (considering my ability to pay for keep) to deprive her of life;
but it would be unjust and ungrateful, in me to withhold from her sufficient food and lodging
to make life as pleasant as possible while that life last.

297. In the meanwhile the book-learning crept in of its own accord, by imperceptible degrees.
Children naturally want to be like their parents, and to do what they do: the boys following
their father, and the girls their mother; and as I was always writing or reading, mine naturally
desired to do something in the same way. But, at the same time, they heard no talk from fools
or drinkers; saw me with no idle, gabbling, empty companions; saw no vain and affected coxcombs,
and no tawdry and extravagant women; saw no nasty gormandizing; and heard no gabble about play-houses
and romances and the other nonsense that fit boys to be lobby-loungers, and girls to be the
ruin of industrious and frugal young men.

298.

299.

300.

301. In this happy state we lived, until the year 1810, when the government laid its merciless
fangs upon me, dragged me from these delights, and crammed me into a jail amongst felons; of
which I shall have to speak more fully, when, in the last Number, I come to speak of the duties
of THE CITIZEN. This added to the difficulties of my task of teaching; for now I was snatched
away from the only scene in which it could, as I thought, properly be executed. But even these
difficulties were got over. The blow was, to be sure, a terrible one; and, oh God! how was
it felt by these poor children! It was in the month of July when the horrible sentence was
passed upon me. My wife, having left her children in the care of her good and affectionate
sister, was in London, waiting to know the doom of her husband. When the news arrived at Botley,
the three boys, one eleven, another nine, and the other seven, years old, were hoeing cabbages
in that garden which had been the source of so much delight. When the account of the savage
sentence was brought to them, the youngest could not, for some time, be made to understand
what a jail was; and, when he did, he, all in a tremor, exclaimed, 'Now I'm sure, William,
that PAPA is not in a place like that!' The other, in order to disguise his tears and smother
his sobs, fell to work with the hoe, and chopped about like a blind person. This account, when
it reached me, affected me more, filled me with deeper resentment, than any other circumstance.
And, oh! how I despise the wretches who talk of my vindictiveness; of my exultation at the
confusion of those who inflicted those sufferings! How I despise the base creatures, the crawling
slaves, the callous and cowardly hypocrites, who affect to be 'shocked' (tender souls!) at
my expressions of joy, and at the death of Gibbs, Ellenborough, Perceval, Liverpool, Canning,
and the rest of the tribe that I have already seen out, and at the fatal workings of that system,
for endeavouring to check which I was thus punished! How I despise these wretches, and how
I, above all things, enjoy their ruin, and anticipate their utter beggary! What! I am to forgive,
am I, injuries like this; and that, too, without any atonement? Oh, no! I have not so read
the Holy Scriptures; I have not, from them, learned that I am not to rejoice at the fall of
unjust foes; and it makes a part of my happiness to be able to tell millions of men that I
do thus rejoice, and that I have the means of calling on so many just and merciful men to rejoice
along with me.

302. Now, then, the book-learning was forced upon us. I had a farm in hand. It was necessary
that I should be constantly informed of what was doing. I gave all the orders, whether as to
purchases, sales, ploughing, sowing, breeding; in short, with regard to every thing, and the
things were endless in number and variety, and always full of interest. My eldest son and daughter
could now write well and fast. One or the other of these was always at Botley; and I had with
me (having hired the best part of the keeper's house) one or two, besides either this brother
or sister; the mother coming up to town about once in two or three months, leaving the house
and children in the care of her sister. We had a HAMPER, with a lock and two keys, which came
up once a week, or oftener, bringing me fruit and all sorts of country fare, for the carriage
of which, cost free, I was indebted to as good a man as ever God created, the late Mr. GEORGE
ROGERS, of Southampton, who, in the prime of life, died deeply lamented by thousands, but by
none more deeply than by me and my family, who have to thank him, and the whole of his excellent
family, for benefits and marks of kindness without number.

303. This HAMPER, which was always, at both ends of the line, looked for with the most lively
feelings, became our school. It brought me a journal of labours, proceedings, and occurrences,
written on paper of shape and size uniform, and so contrived, as to margins, as to admit of
binding. The journal used, when my son was the writer, to be interspersed with drawings of
our dogs, colts, or any thing that he wanted me to have a correct idea of. The hamper brought
me plants, bulbs, and the like, that I might see the size of them; and always every one sent
his or her most beautiful flowers; the earliest violets, and primroses, and cowslips, and blue-bells;
the earliest twigs of trees; and, in short, every thing that they thought calculated to delight
me. The moment the hamper arrived, I, casting aside every thing else, set to work to answer
every question, to give new directions, and to add anything likely to give pleasure at Botley.
Every hamper brought one 'letter,' as they called it, if not more, from every child; and to
every letter I wrote an answer, sealed up and sent to the party, being sure that that was the
way to produce other and better letters; for, though they could not read what I wrote, and
though their own consisted at first of mere scratches, and afterwards, for a while, of a few
words written down for them to imitate, I always thanked them for their 'pretty letter'; and
never expressed any wish to see them write better; but took care to write in a very neat and
plain hand myself, and to do up my letter in a very neat manner.

304. Thus, while the ferocious tigers thought I was doomed to incessant mortification, and
to rage that must extinguish my mental powers, I found in my children, and in their spotless
and courageous and most affectionate mother, delights to which the callous hearts of those
tigers were strangers. 'Heaven first taught letters for some wretch's aid.' How often did this
line of Pope occur to me when I opened the little spuddling 'letters' from Botley! This correspondence
occupied a good part of my time: I had all the children with me, turn and turn about; and,
in order to give the boys exercise, and to give the two eldest an opportunity of beginning
to learn French, I used, for a part of the two years, to send them a few hours in the day to
an ABBÉ, who lived in Castle-street, Holborn. All this was a great relaxation to my mind; and,
when I had to return to my literary labours, I returned fresh and cheerful, full of vigour,
and full of hope, of finally seeing my unjust and merciless foes at my feet, and that, too,
without caring a straw on whom their fall might bring calamity, so that my own family were
safe; because, say what any one might, the community, taken as a whole, had suffered this thing
to be done unto us.

305. The paying of the work-people, the keeping of the accounts, the referring to books, the
writing and reading of letters; this everlasting mixture of amusement with book-learning, made
me, almost to my own surprise, find, at the end of the two years, that I had a parcel of scholars
growing up about me; and, long before the end of the time, I had dictated many Registers to
my two eldest children. Then, there was copying out of books, which taught spelling correctly.
The calculations about the farming affairs forced arithmetic upon us: the use, the necessity,
of the thing, led to the study. By-and-by, we had to look into the laws to know what to do
about the highways, about the game, about the poor, and all rural and parochial affairs. I
was, indeed, by the fangs of the government, defeated in my fondly-cherished project of making
my sons farmers on their own land, and keeping them from all temptation to seek vicious and
enervating enjoyments; but those fangs, merciless as they had been, had not been able to prevent
me from laying in for their lives a store of useful information, habits of industry, care,
sobriety, and a taste for innocent, healthful, and manly pleasures: the fangs had made me and
them pennyless; but, they had not been able to take from us our health or our mental possessions;
and these were ready for application as circumstances might ordain.

306. After the age that I have now been speaking of, fourteen, I suppose every one became a
reader and writer according to fancy. As to books, with the exception of the Poets, I never
bought, in my whole life, any one that I did not want for some purpose of utility, and of practical
utility too. I have two or three times had the whole collection snatched away from me; and
have begun again to get them together as they were wanted. Go and kick an ANT's nest about,
and you will see the little laborious, courageous creatures instantly set to work to get it
together again; and if you do this ten times over, ten times over they will do the same. Here
is the sort of stuff that men must be made of to oppose, with success, those who, by whatever
means, get possession of great and mischievous power.

307. Now, I am aware, that that which I did, cannot be done by every one of hundreds of thousands
of fathers, each of whom loves his children with all his soul: I am aware that the attorney,
the surgeon, the physician, the trader, and even the farmer, cannot, generally speaking, do
what I did, and that they must, in most cases, send their sons to school, if it be necessary
for them to have book-learning. But while I say this, I know, that there are many things, which
I did, which many fathers might do, and which, nevertheless, they do not do. It is in the power
of every father to live at home with his family, when not compelled by business, or by public
duty, to be absent: it is in his power to set an example of industry and sobriety and frugality,
and to prevent a taste for gaming, dissipation, extravagance, from getting root in the minds
of his children: it is in his power to continue to make his children hearers, when he is reproving
servants for idleness, or commending them for industry and care: it is in his power to keep
all dissolute and idly-talking companions from his house: it is in his power to teach them,
by his uniform example, justice and mercy towards the inferior animals: it is in his power
to do many other things, and something in the way of book-learning too, however busy his life
may be. It is completely within his power to teach them early-rising and early going to bed;
and, if many a man, who says that he has not time to teach his children, were to sit down,
in sincerity, with a pen and a bit of paper, and put down all the minutes, which he, in every
twenty-four hours, wastes over the bottle, or over cheese and oranges and raisins and biscuits,
after he has dined; how many he lounges away, either at the coffee-house or at home, over the
useless part of newspapers; how many he spends in waiting for the coming and the managing of
the tea-table; how many he passes by candle-light, wearied of his existence, when he might
be in bed; how many he passes in the morning in bed, while the sun and dew shine and sparkle
for him in vain: if he were to put all these together, and were to add those which he passes
in the reading of books for his mere personal amusement, and without the smallest chance of
acquiring from them any useful practical knowledge: if he were to sum up the whole of these,
and add to them the time worse than wasted in the contemptible work of dressing off his person,
he would be frightened at the result; would send for his boys from school; and if greater book-learning
than he possessed were necessary, he would choose for the purpose some man of ability, and
see the teaching carried on under his own roof, with safety as to morals, and with the best
chance as to health.

308. If after all, however, a school must be resorted to, let it, if in your power, be as little
populous as possible. As 'evil communications corrupt good manners,' so the more numerous the
assemblage, and the more extensive the communication, the greater the chance of corruption.
Jails, barracks, factories, do not corrupt by their walls, but by their condensed numbers.
Populous cities corrupt from the same cause; and it is, because it must be, the same with regard
to schools, out of which children come not what they were when they went in. The master is,
in some sort, their enemy; he is their overlooker; he is a spy upon them; his authority is
maintained by his absolute power of punishment; the parent commits them to that power; to be
taught is to be held in restraint; and, as the sparks fly upwards, the teaching and the restraint
will not be divided in the estimation of the boy. Besides all this, there is the great disadvantage
of tardiness in arriving at years of discretion. If boys live only with boys, their ideas will
continue to be boyish; if they see and hear and converse with nobody but boys, how are they
to have the thoughts and the character of men? It is, at last, only by hearing men talk and
seeing men act, that they learn to talk and act like men; and, therefore, to confine them to
the society of boys, is to retard their arrival at the years of discretion; and in case of
adverse circumstances in the pecuniary way, where, in all the creation, is there so helpless
a mortal as a boy who has always been at school! But, if, as I said before, a school there
must be, let the congregation be as small as possible; and, do not expect too much from the
master; for, if it be irksome to you to teach your own sons, what must that teaching be to
him? If he have great numbers, he must delegate his authority; and, like all other delegated
authority, it will either be abused or neglected.

309. With regard to girls, one would think that mothers would want no argument to make them
shudder at the thought of committing the care of their daughters to other hands than their
own. If fortune have so favoured them as to make them rationally desirous that their daughters
should have more of what are called accomplishments than they themselves have, it has also
favoured them with the means of having teachers under their own eye. If it have not favoured
them so highly as this (and it seldom has in the middle rank of life), what duty so sacred
as that imposed on a mother to be the teacher of her daughters! And is she, from love of ease
or of pleasure or of any thing else, to neglect this duty; is she to commit her daughters to
the care of persons, with whose manners and morals it is impossible for her to be thoroughly
acquainted; is she to send them into the promiscuous society of girls, who belong to nobody
knows whom, and come from nobody knows whither, and some of whom, for aught she can know to
the contrary, may have been corrupted before, and sent thither to be hidden from their former
circle; is she to send her daughters to be shut up within walls, the bare sight of which awaken
the idea of intrigue and invite to seduction and surrender; is she to leave the health of her
daughters to chance, to shut them up with a motley bevy of strangers, some of whom, as is frequently
the case, are proclaimed bastards, by the undeniable testimony given by the colour of their
skin; is she to do all this, and still put forward pretensions to the authority and the affection
due to a mother! And, are you to permit all this, and still call yourself a father!

310. Well, then, having resolved to teach your own children, or, to have them taught, at home,
let us now see how they ought to proceed as to books for learning. It is evident, speaking
of boys, that, at last, they must study the art, or science, that you intend them to pursue;
if they be to be surgeons, they must read books on surgery; and the like in other cases. But,
there are certain elementary studies; certain books to be used by all persons, who are destined
to acquire any book-learning at all. Then there are departments, or branches of knowledge,
that every man in the middle rank of life, ought, if he can, to acquire, they being, in some
sort, necessary to his reputation as a well-informed man, a character to which the farmer and
the shopkeeper ought to aspire as well as the lawyer and the surgeon. Let me now, then, offer
my advice as to the course of reading, and the manner of reading, for a boy, arrived at his
fourteenth year, that being, in my opinion, early enough for him to begin.

311. And, first of all, whether as to boys or girls, I deprecate romances of every description.
It is impossible that they can do any good, and they may do a great deal of harm. They excite
passions that ought to lie dormant; they give the mind a taste for highly-seasoned matter;
they make matters of real life insipid; every girl, addicted to them, sighs to be a SOPHIA
WESTERN, and every boy, a TOM JONES. What girl is not in love with the wild youth, and what
boy does not find a justification for his wildness? What can be more pernicious than the teachings
of this celebrated romance? Here are two young men put before us, both sons of the same mother;
the one a bastard (and by a parson too), the other a legitimate child; the former wild, disobedient,
and squandering; the latter steady, sober, obedient, and frugal; the former every thing that
is frank and generous in his nature, the latter a greedy hypocrite; the former rewarded with
the most beautiful and virtuous of women and a double estate, the latter punished by being
made an outcast. How is it possible for young people to read such a book, and to look upon
orderliness, sobriety, obedience, and frugality, as virtues? And this is the tenor of almost
every romance, and of almost every play, in our language. In the 'School for Scandal,' for
instance, we see two brothers; the one a prudent and frugal man, and, to all appearance, a
moral man, the other a hair-brained squanderer, laughing at the morality of his brother; the
former turns out to be a base hypocrite and seducer, and is brought to shame and disgrace;
while the latter is found to be full of generous sentiment, and Heaven itself seems to interfere
to give him fortune and fame. In short, the direct tendency of the far greater part of these
books, is, to cause young people to despise all those virtues, without the practice of which
they must be a curse to their parents, a burden to the community, and must, except by mere
accident, lead wretched lives. I do not recollect one romance nor one play, in our language,
which has not this tendency. How is it possible for young princes to read the historical plays
of the punning and smutty Shakspeare, and not think, that to be drunkards, blackguards, the
companions of debauchees and robbers, is the suitable beginning of a glorious reign?

312. There is, too, another most abominable principle that runs through them all, namely, that
there is in high birth, something of superior nature, instinctive courage, honour, and talent.
Who can look at the two royal youths in CYMBELINE, or at the noble youth in DOUGLAS, without
detesting the base parasites who wrote those plays? Here are youths, brought up by shepherds,
never told of their origin, believing themselves the sons of these humble parents, but discovering,
when grown up, the highest notions of valour and honour, and thirsting for military renown,
even while tending their reputed fathers' flocks and herds! And, why this species of falsehood?
To cheat the mass of the people; to keep them in abject subjection; to make them quietly submit
to despotic sway. And the infamous authors are guilty of the cheat, because they are, in one
shape or another, paid by oppressors out of means squeezed from the people. A true picture
would give us just the reverse; would show us that 'high birth' is the enemy of virtue, of
valour, and of talent; would show us, that with all their incalculable advantages, royal and
noble families have, only by mere accident, produced a great man; that, in general, they have
been amongst the most effeminate, unprincipled, cowardly, stupid, and, at the very least, amongst
the most useless persons, considered as individuals, and not in connexion with the prerogatives
and powers bestowed on them solely by the law.

313. It is impossible for me, by any words that I can use, to express, to the extent of my
thoughts, the danger of suffering young people to form their opinions from the writings of
poets and romances. Nine times out of ten, the morality they teach is bad, and must have a
bad tendency. Their wit is employed to ridicule virtue, as you will almost always find, if
you examine the matter to the bottom. The world owes a very large part of its sufferings to
tyrants; but what tyrant was there amongst the ancients, whom the poets did not place amongst
the gods? Can you open an English poet, without, in some part or other of his works, finding
the grossest flatteries of royal and noble persons? How are young people not to think that
the praises bestowed on these persons are just? DRYDEN, PARNELL, GAY, THOMSON, in short, what
poet have we had, or have we, POPE only excepted, who was not, or is not, a pensioner, or a
sinecure placeman, or the wretched dependent of some part of the Aristocracy? Of the extent
of the powers of writers in producing mischief to a nation, we have two most striking instances
in the cases of Dr. JOHNSON and BURKE. The former, at a time when it was a question whether
war should be made on America to compel her to submit to be taxed by the English parliament,
wrote a pamphlet, entitled, 'Taxation no Tyranny,' to urge the nation into that war. The latter,
when it was a question, whether England should wage war against the people of France, to prevent
them from reforming their government, wrote a pamphlet to urge the nation into that war. The
first war lost us America, the last cost us six hundred millions of money, and has loaded us
with forty millions a year of taxes. JOHNSON, however, got a pension for his life, and BURKE
a pension for his life, and for three lives after his own! CUMBERLAND and MURPHY, the play-writers,
were pensioners; and, in short, of the whole mass, where has there been one, whom the people
were not compelled to pay for labours, having for their principal object the deceiving and
enslaving of that same people? It is, therefore, the duty of every father, when he puts a book
into the hands of his son or daughter, to give the reader a true account of who and what the
writer of the book was, or is.

314. If a boy be intended for any particular calling, he ought, of course, to be induced to
read books relating to that calling, if such books there be; and, therefore, I shall not be
more particular on that head. But, there are certain things, that all men in the middle rank
of life, ought to know something of; because the knowledge will be a source of pleasure; and
because the want of it must, very frequently, give them pain, by making them appear inferior,
in point of mind, to many who are, in fact, their inferiors in that respect. These things are
grammar, arithmetic, history, accompanied with geography Without these, a man, in the middle
rank of life, however able he may be in his calling, makes but an awkward figure. Without grammar
he cannot, with safety to his character as a well-informed man, put his thoughts upon paper;
nor can he be sure, that he is speaking with propriety. How many clever men have I known, full
of natural talent, eloquent by nature, replete with every thing calculated to give them weight
in society; and yet having little or no weight, merely because unable to put correctly upon
paper that which they have in their minds! For me not to say, that I deem my English Grammar
the best book for teaching this science, would be affectation, and neglect of duty besides;
because I know, that it is the best; because I wrote it for the purpose; and because, hundreds
and hundreds of men and women have told me, some verbally, and some by letter, that, though
(many of them) at grammar schools for years, they really never knew any thing of grammar, until
they studied my book. I, who know well all the difficulties that I experienced when I read
books upon the subject, can easily believe this, and especially when I think of the numerous
instances in which I have seen university-scholars unable to write English, with any tolerable
degree of correctness. In this book, the principles are so clearly explained, that the disgust
arising from intricacy is avoided; and it is this disgust, that is the great and mortal enemy
of acquiring knowledge.

315. With regard to ARITHMETIC, it is a branch of learning absolutely necessary to every one,
who has any pecuniary transactions beyond those arising out of the expenditure of his week's
wages. All the books on this subject that I had ever seen, were so bad, so destitute of every
thing calculated to lead the mind into a knowledge of the matter, so void of principles, and
so evidently tending to puzzle and disgust the learner, by their sententious, and crabbed,
and quaint, and almost hieroglyphical definitions, that I, at one time, had the intention of
writing a little work on the subject myself. It was put off, from one cause or another; but
a little work on the subject has been, partly at my suggestion, written and published by Mr.
THOMAS SMITH of Liverpool, and is sold by Mr. SHERWOOD, in London. The author has great ability,
and a perfect knowledge of his subject. It is a book of principles; and any young person of
common capacity, will learn more from it in a week, than from all the other books, that I ever
saw on the subject, in a twelve-month.

316. While the foregoing studies are proceeding, though they very well afford a relief to each
other, HISTORY may serve as a relaxation, particularly during the study of grammar, which is
an undertaking requiring patience and time. Of all history, that of our own country is of the
most importance; because, for want of a thorough knowledge of what has been, we are, in many
cases, at a loss to account for what is, and still more at a loss, to be able to show what
ought to be. The difference between history and romance is this; that that which is narrated
in the latter, leaves in the mind nothing which it can apply to present or future circumstances
and events; while the former, when it is what it ought to be, leaves the mind stored with arguments
for experience, applicable, at all times, to the actual affairs of life. The history of a country
ought to show the origin and progress of its institutions, political, civil, and ecclesiastical;
it ought to show the effects of those institutions upon the state of the people; it ought to
delineate the measures of the government at the several epochs; and, having clearly described
the state of the people at the several periods, it ought to show the cause of their freedom,
good morals, and happiness; or of their misery, immorality, and slavery; and this, too, by
the production of indubitable facts, and of inferences so manifestly fair, as to leave not
the smallest doubt upon the mind.

317. Do the histories of England which we have, answer this description? They are very little
better than romances. Their contents are generally confined to narrations relating to battles,
negociations, intrigues, contests between rival sovereignties, rival nobles, and to the character
of kings, queens, mistresses, bishops, ministers, and the like; from scarcely any of which
can the reader draw any knowledge which is at all applicable to the circumstances of the present
day.

318. Besides this, there is the falsehood; and the falsehoods contained in these histories,
where shall we find any thing to surpass? Let us take one instance. They all tell us, that
William the Conqueror knocked down twenty-six parish churches, and laid waste the parishes
in order to make the New Forest; and this in a tract of the very poorest land in England, where
the churches must then have stood at about one mile and two hundred yards from each other.
The truth is, that all the churches are still standing that were there when William landed,
and the whole story is a sheer falsehood from the beginning to the end.

319. But, this is a mere specimen of these romances; and that too, with regard to a matter
comparatively unimportant to us. The important falsehoods are, those which misguide us by statement
or by inference, with regard to the state of the people at the several epochs, as produced
by the institutions of the country, or the measures of the Government. It is always the object
of those who have power in their hands, to persuade the people that they are better off than
their forefathers were: it is the great business of history to show how this matter stands;
and, with respect to this great matter, what are we to learn from any thing that has hitherto
been called a history of England! I remember, that, about a dozen years ago, I was talking
with a very clever young man, who had read twice or thrice over the History of England, by
different authors; and that I gave the conversation a turn that drew from him, unperceived
by himself, that he did not know how tithes, parishes, poor-rates, church-rates, and the abolition
of trial by jury in hundreds of cases, came to be in England; and, that he had not the smallest
idea of the manner in which the Duke of Bedford came to possess the power of taxing our cabbages
in Covent-Garden. Yet, this is history. I have done a great deal, with regard to matters of
this sort, in my famous History of the PROTESTANT REFORMATION; for I may truly call that famous,
which has been translated and published in all the modern languages.

320. But, it is reserved for me to write a complete history of the country from the earliest
times to the present day; and this, God giving me life and health, I shall begin to do in monthly
numbers, beginning on the first of September, and in which I shall endeavour to combine brevity
with clearness. We do not want to consume our time over a dozen pages about Edward the Third
dancing at a ball, picking up a lady's garter, and making that garter the foundation of an
order of knighthood, bearing the motto of 'Honi soit qui mal y pense? It is not stuff like
this; but we want to know what was the state of the people; what were a labourer's wages; what
were the prices of the food, and how the labourers were dressed in the reign of that great
king. What is a young person to imbibe from a history of England, as it is called, like that
of Goldsmith? It is a little romance to amuse children; and the other historians have given
us larger romances to amuse lazy persons who are grown up. To destroy the effects of these,
and to make the people know what their country has been, will be my object; and this, I trust,
I shall effect. We are, it is said, to have a History of England from SIR JAMES MACKINTOSH;
a History of Scotland from SIR WALTER SCOTT; and a HISTORY OF IRELAND from Tommy Moore, the
luscious poet. A Scotch lawyer, who is a pensioner, and a member for Knaresborough, which is
well known to the Duke of Devonshire, who has the great tithes of twenty parishes in Ireland,
will, doubtless, write a most impartial History of England, and particularly as far as relates
to boroughs and tithes. A Scotch romance-writer, who, under the name of Malagrowther, wrote
a pamphlet to prove, that one-pound-notes were the cause of riches to Scotland, will write,
to be sure, a most instructive History of Scotland. And, from the pen of a Irish poet, who
is a sinecure placeman, and a protégé of an English peer that has immense parcels of Irish
confiscated estates, what a beautiful history shall we not then have of unfortunate Ireland!
Oh, no! We are not going to be content with stuff such as these men will bring out. Hume and
Smollett and Robertson have cheated us long enough. We are not in a humour to be cheated any
longer.

321. GEOGRAPHY is taught at schools, if we believe the school-cards. The scholars can tell
you all about the divisions of the earth, and this is very well for persons who have leisure
to indulge their curiosity; but it does seem to me monstrous that a young person's time should
be spent in ascertaining the boundaries of Persia or China, knowing nothing all the while about
the boundaries, the rivers, the soil, or the products, or of the any thing else of Yorkshire
or Devonshire. The first thing in geography is to know that of the country in which we live,
especially that in which we were born: I have now seen almost every hill and valley in it with
my own eyes; nearly every city and every town, and no small part of the whole of the villages.
I am therefore qualified to give an account of the country; and that account, under the title
of Geographical Dictionary of England and Wales, I am now having printed as a companion to
my history.

322. When a young man well understands the geography of his own country; when he has referred
to maps on this smaller scale; when, in short, he knows all about his own country, and is able
to apply his knowledge to useful purposes, he may look at other countries, and particularly
at those, the powers or measures of which are likely to affect his own country. It is of great
importance to us to be well acquainted with the extent of France, the United States, Portugal,
Spain, Mexico, Turkey, and Russia; but what need we care about the tribes of Asia and Africa,
the condition of which can affect us no more than we would be affected by any thing that is
passing in the moon?

323. When people have nothing useful to do, they may indulge their curiosity; but, merely to
read books, is not to be industrious, is not to study, and is not the way to become learned.
Perhaps there are none more lazy, or more truly ignorant, than your everlasting readers. A
book is an admirable excuse for sitting still; and, a man who has constantly a newspaper, a
magazine, a review, or some book or other in his hand, gets, at last, his head stuffed with
such a jumble, that he knows not what to think about any thing. An empty coxcomb, that wastes
his time in dressing, strutting, or strolling about, and picking his teeth, is certainly a
most despicable creature, but scarcely less so than a mere reader of books, who is, generally,
conceited, thinks himself wiser than other men, in proportion to the number of leaves that
he has turned over. In short, a young man should bestow his time upon no book, the contents
of which he cannot apply to some useful purpose.

324. Books of travels, of biography, natural history, and particularly such as relate to agriculture
and horticulture, are all proper, when leisure is afforded for them; and the two last are useful
to a very great part of mankind; but, unless the subjects treated of are of some interest to
us in our affairs, no time should be wasted upon them, when there are so many duties demanded
at our hands by our families and our country. A man may read books for ever, and be an ignorant
creature at last, and even the more ignorant for his reading.

325. And, with regard to young women, everlasting book-reading is absolutely a vice. When they
once get into the habit, they neglect all other matters, and, in some cases, even their very
dress. Attending to the affairs of the house: to the washing, the baking, the brewing, the
preservation and cooking of victuals, the management of the poultry and the garden; these are
their proper occupations. It is said (with what truth I know not) of the present Queen (wife
of William IV), that she was an active, excellent manager of her house. Impossible to bestow
on her greater praise; and I trust that her example will have its due effect on the young women
of the present day, who stand, but too generally, in need of that example.

326. The great fault of the present generation, is, that, in all ranks, the notions of self-importance
are too high. This has arisen from causes not visible to many, out the consequences are felt
by all, and that, too, with great severity. There has been a general sublimating going on for
many years. Not to put the word Esquire before the name of almost any man who is not a mere
labourer or artisan, is almost an affront. Every merchant, every master-manufacturer, every
dealer, if at all rich, is an Esquire; squires' sons must be gentlemen, and squires' wives
and daughters ladies. If this were all; if it were merely a ridiculous misapplication of words,
the evil would not be great; but, unhappily, words lead to acts and produce things; and the
'young gentleman' is not easily to be moulded into a tradesman or a working farmer. And yet
the world is too small to hold so many gentlemen and ladies. How many thousands of young men
have, at this moment, cause to lament that they are not carpenters, or masons, or tailors,
or shoemakers; and how many thousands of those, that they have been bred up to wish to disguise
their honest and useful, and therefore honourable, calling! ROUSSEAU observes, that men are
happy, first, in proportion to their virtue, and next, in proportion to their independence;
and that, of all mankind, the artisan, or craftsman, is the most independent; because he carries
about, in his own hands and person, the means of gaining his livelihood; and that the more
common the use of the articles on which he works, the more perfect his independence. 'Where,'
says he, 'there is one man that stands in need of the talents of the dentist, there are a hundred
thousand that want those of the people who supply the matter for the teeth to work on; and
for one who wants a sonnet to regale his fancy, there are a million clamouring for men to make
or mend their shoes.' Aye, and this is the reason, why shoemakers are proverbially the most
independent part of the people, and why they, in general, show more public spirit than any
other men. He who lives by a pursuit, be it what it may, which does not require a considerable
degree of bodily labour, must, from the nature of things, be, more or less, a dependent; and
this is, indeed, the price which he pays for his exemption from that bodily labour. He may
arrive at riches, or fame, or both; and this chance he sets against the certainty of independence
in humbler life. There always have been, there always will be, and there always ought to be,
some men to take this chance: but to do this has become the fashion, and a fashion it is the
most fatal that ever seized upon a community.

327. With regard to young women, too, to sing, to play on instruments of music, to draw, to
speak French, and the like, are very agreeable qualifications; but why should they all be musicians,
and painters, and linguists? Why all of them? Who, then, is there left to take care of the
houses of farmers and traders? But there is something in these 'accomplishments' worse than
this; namely, that they think themselves too high for farmers and traders: and this, in fact,
they are; much too high; and, therefore, the servant-girls step in and supply their place.
If they could see their own interest, surely they would drop this lofty tone, and these lofty
airs. It is, however, the fault of the parents, and particularly of the father, whose duty
it is to prevent them from imbibing such notions, and to show them, that the greatest honour
they ought to aspire to is, thorough skill and care in the economy of a house. We are all apt
to set too high a value on what we ourselves have done; and I may do this; but I do firmly
believe, that to cure any young woman of this fatal sublimation, she has only patiently to
read my COTTAGE ECONOMY, written with an anxious desire to promote domestic skill and ability
in that sex, on whom so much of the happiness of man must always depend. A lady in Worcestershire
told me, that until she read COTTAGE ECONOMY she had never baked in the house, and had seldom
had good beer; that, ever since, she had looked after both herself; that the pleasure she had
derived from it, was equal to the profit, and that the latter was very great. She said, that
the article 'on baking bread,' was the part that roused her to the undertaking; and, indeed,
if the facts and arguments, there made use of, failed to stir her up to action, she must have
been stone dead to the power of words.

328. After the age that we have now been supposing, boys and girls become men and women; and,
there now only remains for the father to act towards them with impartiality. If they be numerous,
or, indeed, if they be only two in number, to expect perfect harmony to reign amongst, or between,
them, is to be unreasonable; because experience shows us, that, even amongst the most sober,
most virtuous, and most sensible, harmony so complete is very rare. By nature they are rivals
for the affection and applause of the parents; in personal and mental endowments they become
rivals; and, when pecuniary interests come to be well understood and to have their weight,
here is a rivalship, to prevent which from ending in hostility, require more affection and
greater disinterestedness than fall to the lot of one out of one hundred families. So many
instances have I witnessed of good and amiable families living in harmony, till the hour arrived
for dividing property amongst them, and then, all at once, becoming hostile to each other,
that I have often thought that property, coming in such a way, was a curse, and that the parties
would have been far better off, had the parent had merely a blessing to bequeath them from
his or her lips, instead of a will for them to dispute and wrangle over.

329. With regard to this matter, all that the father can do, is to be impartial; but, impartiality
does not mean positive equality in the distribution, but equality in proportion to the different
deserts of the parties, their different wants, their different pecuniary circumstances, and
different prospects in life; and these vary so much, in different families, that it is impossible
to lay down any general rule upon the subject. But there is one fatal error, against which
every father ought to guard his heart; and the kinder that heart is, the more necessary such
guardianship. I mean the fatal error of heaping upon one child, to the prejudice of the rest;
or, upon a part of them. This partiality sometimes arises from mere caprice; sometimes from
the circumstance of the favourite being more favoured by nature than the rest; sometimes from
the nearer resemblance to himself, that the father sees in the favourite; and, sometimes, from
the hope of preventing the favoured party from doing that which would disgrace the parent.
All these motives are highly censurable, but the last is the most general, and by far the most
mischievous in its effects. How many fathers have been ruined, how many mothers and families
brought to beggary, how many industrious and virtuous groups have been pulled down from competence
to penury, from the desire to prevent one from bringing shame on the parent! So that, contrary
to every principle of justice, the bad is rewarded for the badness; and the good punished for
the goodness. Natural affection, remembrance of infantine endearments, reluctance to abandon
long-cherished hopes, compassion for the sufferings of your own flesh and blood, the dread
of fatal consequences from your adhering to justice; all these beat at your heart, and call
on you to give way: but, you must resist them all; or, your ruin, and that of the rest of your
family, are decreed. Suffering is the natural and just punishment of idleness, drunkenness,
squandering, and an indulgence in the society of prostitutes; and, never did the world behold
an instance of an offender, in this way, reclaimed but by the infliction of this punishment;
particularly, if the society of prostitutes made part of the offence; for, here is something
that takes the heart from you. Nobody ever yet saw, and nobody ever will see, a young man,
linked to a prostitute, and retain, at the same time, any, even the smallest degree of affection,
for parents or brethren. You may supplicate, you may implore, you may leave yourself pennyless,
and your virtuous children without bread; the invisible cormorant will still call for more;
and, as we saw, only the other day, a wretch was convicted of having, at the instigation of
his prostitute, beaten his aged mother, to get from her the small remains of the means necessary
to provide her with food. In HERON'S collection of God's judgments on wicked acts, it is related
of an unnatural son, who fed his aged father upon orts and offal, lodged him in a filthy and
crazy garret, and clothed him in sackcloth, while he and his wife and children lived in luxury;
that, having bought sackcloth enough for two dresses for his father, the children took away
the part not made up, and hid it, and that, upon asking them what they could do this for, they
told him that they meant to keep it for him, when he should become old and walk with a stick!
This, the author relates, pierced his heart; and, indeed, if this failed, he must have had
the heart of a tiger; but, even this would not succeed with the associate of a prostitute.
When this vice, this love of the society of prostitutes; when this vice has once got fast hold,
vain are all your sacrifices, vain your prayers, vain your hopes, vain your anxious desire
to disguise the shame from the world; and, if you have acted well your part, no part of that
shame falls on you, unless you have administered to the cause of it. Your authority has ceased;
the voice of the prostitute, or the charms of the bottle, or the rattle of the dice, has been
more powerful than your advice and example: you must lament this: but, it is not to bow you
down; and, above all things, it is weak, and even criminally selfish, to sacrifice the rest
of your family, in order to keep from the world the knowledge of that, which, if known, would,
in your view of the matter, bring shame on yourself.

330. Let me hope, however, that this is a calamity which will befall very few good fathers;
and that, of all such, the sober, industrious, and frugal habits of their children, their dutiful
demeanor, their truth and their integrity, will come to smooth the path of their downward days,
and be the objects on which their eyes will close. And, what can be more just than that signal
punishment should follow such a crime; a crime directly against the voice of nature itself?
Youth has its passions, and due allowance justice will make for these; but, are the delusions
of the boozer, the gamester, or the harlot, to be pleaded in excuse for a disregard of the
source of your existence? Are those to be pleaded in apology for giving pain to the father
who has toiled half a lifetime in order to feed and clothe you, and to the mother whose breast
has been to you the fountain of life? Go, you, and shake the hand of the boon-companion; take
the greedy harlot to your arms; mock at the tears of your tender and anxious parents; and,
when your purse is empty and your complexion faded, receive the poverty and the scorn due to
your base ingratitude!

LETTER VI

TO THE CITIZEN

331. Having now given my Advice to the YOUTH, the grown-up MAN, the LOVER, the HUSBAND and
the FATHER, I shall, in this concluding Number, tender my Advice to the CITIZEN, in which capacity
every man has rights to enjoy and duties to perform, and these too of importance not inferior
to those which belong to him, or are imposed upon him, as son, parent, husband or father. The
word citizen is not, in its application, confined to the mere inhabitants of cities: it means,
a member of a civil society, or community; and, in order to have a clear comprehension of man's
rights and duties in this capacity, we must take a look at the origin of civil communities.

332. Time was when the inhabitants of this island, for instance, laid claim to all things in
it, without the words owner or property being known. God had given to all the people all the
land and all the trees, and every thing else, just as he has given the burrows and the grass
to the rabbits, and the bushes and the berries to the birds; and each man had the good things
of this world in a greater or less degree in proportion to his skill, his strength and his
valour. This is what is called living under the LAW OF NATURE; that is to say, the law of self-preservation
and self-enjoyment, without any restraint imposed by a regard for the good of our neighbours.

333. In process of time, no matter from what cause, men made amongst themselves a compact,
or an agreement, to divide the land and its products in such manner that each should have a
share to his own exclusive use, and that each man should be protected in the exclusive enjoyment
of his share by the united power of the rest; and, in order to ensure the due and certain application
of this united power, the whole of the people agreed to be bound by regulations, called LAWS.
Thus arose civil society; thus arose property; thus arose the words mine and thine. One man
became possessed of more good things than another, because he was more industrious, more skilful,
more careful, or more frugal: so that LABOUR, of one sort or another, was the BASIS of all
property.

334. In what manner civil societies proceeded in providing for the making of laws and for the
enforcing of them; the various ways in which they took measures to protect the weak against
the strong; how they have gone to work to secure wealth against the attacks of poverty; these
are subjects that it would require volumes to detail; but these truths are written on the heart
of man: that all men are, by nature, equal; that civil society can never have arisen from any
motive other than that of the benefit of the whole; that, whenever civil society makes the
greater part of the people worse off than they were under the Law of Nature, the civil compact
is, in conscience, dissolved, and all the rights of nature return; that, in civil society,
the rights and the duties go hand in hand, and that, when the former are taken away, the latter
cease to exist.

335. Now, then, in order to act well our part, as citizens, or members of the community, we
ought clearly to understand what our rights are; for, on our enjoyment of these depend our
duties, rights going before duties, as value received goes before payment. I know well, that
just the contrary of this is taught in our political schools, where we are told, that our first
duty is to obey the laws; and it is not many years ago, that HORSLEY, Bishop of Rochester,
told us, that the people had nothing to do with the laws but to obey them. The truth is, however,
that the citizen's first duty is to maintain his rights, as it is the purchaser's first duty
to receive the thing for which he has contracted.

336. Our rights in society are numerous; the right of enjoying life and property; the right
of exerting our physical and mental powers in an innocent manner; but, the great right of all,
and without which there is, in fact, no right, is, the right of taking a part in the making
of the laws by which we are governed. This right is founded in that law of Nature spoken of
above; it springs out of the very principle of civil society; for what compact, what agreement,
what common assent, can possibly be imagined by which men would give up all the rights of nature,
all the free enjoyment of their bodies and their minds, in order to subject themselves to rules
and laws, in the making of which they should have nothing to say, and which should be enforced
upon them without their assent? The great right, therefore, of every man, the right of rights,
is the right of having a share in the making of the laws, to which the good of the whole makes
it his duty to submit.

337. With regard to the means of enabling every man to enjoy this share, they have been different,
in different countries, and, in the same countries, at different times. Generally it has been,
and in great communities it must be, by the choosing of a few to speak and act in behalf of
the many: and, as there will hardly ever be perfect unanimity amongst men assembled for any
purpose whatever, where fact and argument are to decide the question, the decision is left
to the majority, the compact being that the decision of the majority shall be that of the whole.
Minors are excluded from this right, because the law considers them as infants, because it
makes the parent answerable for civil damages committed by them, and because of their legal
incapacity to make any compact. Women are excluded because husbands are answerable in law for
their wives, as to their civil damages, and because the very nature of their sex makes the
exercise of this right incompatible with the harmony and happiness of society. Men stained
with indelible crimes are excluded, because they have forfeited their right by violating the
laws, to which their assent has been given. Insane persons are excluded, because they are dead
in the eye of the law, because the law demands no duty at their hands, because they cannot
violate the law, because the law cannot affect them; and, therefore, they ought to have no
hand in making it.

338. But, with these exceptions, where is the ground whereon to maintain that any man ought
to be deprived of this right, which he derives directly from the law of Nature, and which springs,
as I said before, out of the same source with civil society itself? Am I told, that property
ought to confer this right? Property sprang from labour, and not labour from property; so that
if there were to be a distinction here, it ought to give the preference to labour. All men
are equal by nature; nobody denies that they all ought to be equal in the eye of the law; but,
how are they to be thus equal, if the law begin by suffering some to enjoy this right and refusing
the enjoyment to others? It is the duty of every man to defend his country against an enemy,
a duty imposed by the law of Nature as well as by that of civil society, and without the recognition
of this duty, there could exist no independent nation and no civil society. Yet, how are you
to maintain that this is the duty of every man, if you deny to some men the enjoyment of a
share in making the laws? Upon what principle are you to contend for equality here, while you
deny its existence as to the right of sharing in the making of the laws? The poor man has a
body and a soul as well as the rich man; like the latter, he has parents, wife and children;
a bullet or a sword is as deadly to him as to the rich man; there are hearts to ache and tears
to flow for him as well as for the squire or the lord or the loan-monger: yet, notwithstanding
this equality, he is to risk all, and, if he escape, he is still to be denied an equality of
rights! If, in such a state of things, the artisan or labourer, when called out to fight in
defence of his country, were to answer: 'Why should I risk my life? I have no possession but
my labour; no enemy will take that from me; you, the rich, possess all the land and all its
products; you make what laws you please without my participation or assent; you punish me at
your pleasure; you say that my want of property excludes me from the right of having a share
in the making of the laws; you say that the property that I have in my labour is nothing worth;
on what ground, then, do you call on me to risk my life?' If, in such a case, such questions
were put, the answer is very difficult to be imagined.

339. In cases of civil commotion the matter comes still more home to us. On what ground is
the rich man to call the artisan from his shop or the labourer from the field to join the sheriff's
possé or the militia, if he refuse to the labourer and artisan the right of sharing in the
making of the laws? Why are they to risk their lives here? To uphold the laws, and to protect
property. What! laws, in the making of, or assenting to, which they have been allowed to have
no share? Property, of which they are said to possess none? What! compel men to come forth
and risk their lives for the protection of property; and then, in the same breath, tell them,
that they are not allowed to share in the making of the laws, because, and ONLY BECAUSE, they
have no property! Not because they have committed any crime; not because they are idle or profligate;
not because they are vicious in any way; out solely because they have no property; and yet,
at the same time, compel them to come forth and risk their lives for the protection of property!

340. But, the PAUPERS? Ought they to share in the making of the laws? And why not? What is
a pauper; what is one of the men to whom this degrading appellation is applied? A very poor
man; a man who is, from some cause or other, unable to supply himself with food and raiment
without aid from the parish-rates. And, is that circumstance alone to deprive him of his right,
a right of which he stands more in need than any other man? Perhaps he has, for many years
of his life, contributed directly to those rates; and ten thousand to one he has, by his labour,
contributed to them indirectly. The aid which, under such circumstances, he receives, is his
right; he receives it not as an alms: he is no mendicant; he begs not; he comes to receive
that which the law of the country awards him in lieu of the larger portion assigned him by
the law of Nature. Pray mark that, and let it be deeply engraven on your memory. The audacious
and merciless MALTHUS (a parson of the church establishment) recommended, some years ago, the
passing of a law to put an end to the giving of parish relief, though he recommended no law
to put an end to the enormous taxes paid by poor people. In his book he said, that the poor
should be left to the law of Nature, which, in case of their having nothing to buy food with,
doomed them to starve. They would ask nothing better than to be left to the law of Nature;
that law which knows nothing about buying food or any thing else; that law which bids the hungry
and the naked take food and raiment wherever they find it best and nearest at hand; that law
which awards all possessions to the strongest; that law the operations of which would clear
out the London meat-markets and the drapers' and jewellers' shops in about half an hour: to
this law the parson wished the parliament to leave the poorest of the working people; but,
if the parliament had done it, it would have been quickly seen, that this law was far from
'dooming them to be starved.'

341. Trusting that it is unnecessary for me to express a hope, that barbarous thoughts like
those of Malthus and his tribe will never be entertained by any young man who has read the
previous Numbers of this work, let me return to my very, very poor man, and ask, whether it
be consistent with justice, with humanity, with reason, to deprive a man of the most precious
of his political rights, because, and only because, he has been, in a pecuniary way, singularly
unfortunate? The Scripture says, 'Despise not the poor, because he is poor;' that is to say,
despise him not on account of his poverty. Why, then, deprive him of his right; why put him
out of the pale of the law, on account of his poverty? There are some men, to be sure, who
are reduced to poverty by their vices, by idleness, by gaming, by drinking, by squandering;
but, the far greater part by bodily ailments, by misfortunes to the effects of which all men
may, without any fault, and even without any folly, be exposed: and, is there a man on earth
so cruelly unjust as to wish to add to the sufferings of such persons by stripping them of
their political rights? How many thousands of industrious and virtuous men have, within these
few years, been brought down from a state of competence to that of pauperism! And, is it just
to strip such men of their rights, merely because they are thus brought down? When I was at
ELY, last spring, there were in that neighbourhood, three paupers cracking stones on the roads,
who had all three been, not only rate-payers, but overseers of the poor, within seven years
of the day when I was there. Is there any man so barbarous as to say, that these men ought,
merely on account of their misfortunes, to be deprived of their political rights? Their right
to receive relief is as perfect as any right of property; and, would you, merely because they
claim this right, strip them of another right? To say no more of the injustice and the cruelty,
is there reason, is there common sense in this? What! if a farmer or tradesman be, by flood
or by fire, so totally ruined as to be compelled, surrounded by his family, to resort to the
parish-book, would you break the last heart-string of such a man by making him feel the degrading
loss of his political rights?

342. Here, young man of sense and of spirit; here is the point on which you are to take your
stand. There are always men enough to plead the cause of the rich; enough and enough to echo
the woes of the fallen great; but, be it your part to show compassion for those who labour,
and to maintain their rights. Poverty is not a crime, and, though it sometimes arises from
faults, it is not, even in that case, to be visited by punishment beyond that which it brings
with itself. Remember, that poverty is decreed by the very nature of man. The Scripture says,
that 'the poor shall never cease from out of the land;' that is to say, that there shall always
be some very poor people. This is inevitable from the very nature of things. It is necessary
to the existence of mankind, that a very large portion of every people should live by manual
labour; and, as such labour is pain, more or less, and as no living creature likes pain, it
must be, that the far greater part of labouring people will endure only just as much of this
pain as is absolutely necessary to the supply of their daily wants. Experience says that this
has always been, and reason and nature tell us, that this must always be. Therefore, when ailments,
when losses, when untoward circumstances of any sort, stop or diminish the daily supply, want
comes; and every just government will provide, from the general stock, the means to satisfy
this want.

343. Nor is the deepest poverty without its useful effects in society. To the practice of the
virtues of abstinence, sobriety, care, frugality, industry, and even honesty and amiable manners
and acquirement of talent, the two great motives are, to get upwards in riches or fame, and
to avoid going downwards to poverty, the last of which is the most powerful of the two. It
is, therefore, not with contempt, but with compassion, that we should look on those, whose
state is one of the decrees of nature, from whose sad example we profit, and to whom, in return,
we ought to make compensation by every indulgent and kind act in our power, and particularly
by a defence of their rights. To those who labour, we, who labour not with our hands, owe all
that we eat, drink and wear; all that shades us by day and that shelters us by night; all the
means of enjoying health and pleasure; and, therefore, if we possess talent for the task, we
are ungrateful or cowardly, or both, if we omit any effort within our power to prevent them
from being slaves; and, disguise the matter how we may, a slave, a real slave, every man is,
who has no share in making the laws which he is compelled to obey.

344. What is a slave? For, let us not be amused by a name; but look well into the matter. A
slave is, in the first place, a man who has no property; and property means something that
he has, and that nobody can take from him without his leave, or consent. Whatever man, no matter
what he may call himself or any body else may call him, can have his money or his goods taken
from him by force, by virtue of an order, or ordinance, or law, which he has had no hand in
making, and to which he has not given his assent, has no property, and is merely a depositary
of the goods of his master. A slave has no property in his labour; and any man who is compelled
to give up the fruit of his labour to another, at the arbitrary will of that other, has no
property in his labour, and is, therefore, a slave, whether the fruit of his labour be taken
from him directly or indirectly. If it be said, that he gives up this fruit of his labour by
his own will, and that it is not forced from him. I answer, To be sure he may avoid eating
and drinking and may go naked; but, then he must die; and on this condition, and this condition
only, can he refuse to give up the fruit of his labour; 'Die, wretch, or surrender as much
of your income, or the fruit of your labour as your masters choose to take.' This is, in fact,
the language of the rulers to every man who is refused to have a share in the making of the
laws to which he is forced to submit.

345. But, some one may say, slaves are private property, and may be bought and sold, out and
out, like cattle. And, what is it to the slave, whether he be property of one or of many; or,
what matters it to him, whether he pass from master to master by a sale for an indefinite term,
or be let to hire by the year, month, or week? It is, in no case, the flesh and blood and bones
that are sold, but the labour; and, if you actually sell the labour of man, is not that man
a slave, though you sell it for only a short time at once? And, as to the principle, so ostentatiously
displayed in the case of the black slave-trade, that 'man ought not to have a property in man,'
it is even an advantage to the slave to be private property, because the owner has then a clear
and powerful interest in the preservation of his life, health and strength, and will, therefore,
furnish him amply with the food and raiment necessary for these ends. Every one knows, that
public property is never so well taken care of as private property; and this, too, on the maxim,
that 'that which is every body's business is nobody's business.' Every one knows that a rented
farm is not so well kept in heart, as a farm in the hands of the owner. And as to punishments
and restraints, what difference is there, whether these be inflicted and imposed by a private
owner, or his overseer, or by the agents and overseers of a body of proprietors? In short,
if you can cause a man to be imprisoned or whipped if he do not work enough to please you;
if you can sell him by auction for a time limited; if you can forcibly separate him from his
wife to prevent their having children; if you can shut him up in his dwelling place when you
please, and for as long a time as you please; if you can force him to draw a cart or wagon
like a beast of draught; if you can, when the humour seizes you, and at the suggestion of your
mere fears, or whim, cause him to be shut up in a dungeon during your pleasure: if you can,
at your pleasure, do these things to him, is it not to be impudently hypocritical to affect
to call him a free-man? But, after all, these may all be wanting, and yet the man be a slave,
if he be allowed to have no property; and, as I have shown, no property he can have, not even
in that labour, which is not only property, but the basis of all other property, unless he
have a share in making the laws to which he is compelled to submit.

346. It is said, that he may have this share virtually though not in form and name; for that
his employers may have such share, and they will, as a matter of course, act for him. This
doctrine, pushed home, would make the chief of the nation the sole maker of the laws; for,
if the rich can thus act for the poor, why should not the chief act for the rich? This matter
is very completely explained by the practice in the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. There the maxim
is, that every free man, with the exception of men stained with crime and men insane, has a
right to have a voice in choosing those who make the laws. The number of Representatives sent
to the Congress is, in each State, proportioned to the number of free people. But, as there
are slaves in some of the States, these States have a certain portion of additional numbers
on account of those slaves! Thus the slaves are represented by their owners, and this is real,
practical, open and undisguised virtual representation! No doubt that white men may be represented
in the same way; for the colour of the skin is nothing; but let them be called slaves, then;
let it not be pretended that they are free men; let not the word liberty be polluted by being
applied to their state; let it be openly and honestly avowed, as in America, that they are
slaves; and then will come the question whether men ought to exist in such a state, or whether
they ought to do every thing in their power to rescue themselves from it.

347. If the right to have a share in making the laws were merely a feather; if it were a fanciful
thing; if it were only a speculative theory; if it were but an abstract principle; on any of
these suppositions, it might be considered as of little importance. But it is none of these;
it is a practical matter; the want of it not only is, but must of necessity be, felt by every
man who lives under that want. If it were proposed to the shopkeepers in a town, that a rich
man or two, living in the neighbourhood, should have power to send, whenever they pleased,
and take away as much as they pleased of the money of the shopkeepers, and apply it to what
uses they please; what an outcry the shopkeepers would make! And yet, what would this be more
than taxes imposed on those who have no voice in choosing the persons who impose them? Who
lets another man put his hand into his purse when he pleases? Who, that has the power to help
himself, surrenders his goods or his money to the will of another? Has it not always been,
and must it not always be, true, that, if your property be at the absolute disposal of others,
your ruin is certain? And if this be, of necessity, the case amongst individuals and parts
of the community, it must be the case with regard to the whole community.

348. Aye, and experience shows us that it always has been the case. The natural and inevitable
consequences of a want of this right in the people have, in all countries, been taxes pressing
the industrious and laborious to the earth; severe laws and standing armies to compel the people
to submit to those taxes; wealth, luxury, and splendour, amongst those who make the laws and
receive the taxes; poverty, misery, immorality and crime, amongst those who bear the burdens;
and at last commotion, revolt, revenge, and rivers of blood. Such have always been, and such
must always be, the consequences of a want of this right of all men to share in the making
of the laws, a right, as I have before shown, derived immediately from the law of Nature, springing
up out of the same source with civil society, and cherished in the heart of man by reason and
by experience.

349. Well, then, this right being that, without the enjoyment of which there is, in reality,
no right at all, how manifestly is it the first duty of every man to do all in his power to
maintain this right where it exists, and to restore it where it has been lost? For observe,
it must, at one time, have existed in every civil community, it being impossible that it could
ever be excluded by any social compact; absolutely impossible, because it is contrary to the
law of self-preservation to believe, that men would agree to give up the rights of nature without
stipulating for some benefit. Before we can affect to believe that this right was not reserved,
in such compact, as completely as the right to live was reserved, we must affect to believe,
that millions of men, under no control but that of their own passions and desires, and having
all the earth and its products at the command of their strength and skill, consented to be
for ever, they and their posterity, the slaves of a few.

350. We cannot believe this, and therefore, without going back into history and precedents,
we must believe, that, in whatever civil community this right does not exist, it has been lost,
or rather, unjustly taken away. And then, having seen the terrible evils which always have
arisen, and always must arise, from the want of it; being convinced that, where lost or taken
away by force or fraud, it is our very first duty to do all in our power to restore it, the
next consideration is, how one ought to act in the discharge of this most sacred duty; for
sacred it is even as the duties of husband and father. For, besides the baseness of the thought
of quietly submitting to be a slave oneself, we have here, besides our duty to the community,
a duty to perform towards our children and our children's children. We all acknowledge that
it is our bounden duty to provide, as far as our power will go, for the competence, the health,
and the good character of our children; but, is this duty superior to that of which I am now
speaking? What is competence, what is health, if the possessor be a slave, and hold his possessions
at the will of another, or others; as he must do if destitute of the right to a share in the
making of the laws? What is competence, what is health, if both can, at any moment, be snatched
away by the grasp or the dungeon of a master; and his master he is who makes the laws without
his participation or assent? And, as to character, as to fair fame, when the white slave puts
forward pretensions to those, let him no longer affect to commiserate the state of his sleek
and fat brethren in Barbadoes and Jamaica; let him hasten to mix the hair with the wool, to
blend the white with the black, and to lose the memory of his origin amidst a dingy generation.

351. Such, then, being the nature of the duty, how are we to go to work in the performance
of it, and what are our means? With regard to these, so various are the circumstances, so endless
the differences in the states of society, and so many are the cases when it would be madness
to attempt that which it would be prudence to attempt in others, that no general rule can be
given beyond this; that, the right and the duty being clear to our minds, the means that are
surest and swiftest are the best. In every such case, however, the great and predominant desire
ought to be not to employ any means beyond those of reason and persuasion, as long as the employment
of these afford a ground for rational expectation of success. Men are, in such a case, labouring,
not for the present day only, but for ages to come; and therefore they should not slacken in
their exertions, because the grave may close upon them before the day of final triumph arrive.
Amongst the virtues of the good Citizen are those of fortitude and patience; and, when he has
to carry on his struggle against corruptions deep and widely-rooted, he is not to expect the
baleful tree to come down at a single blow; he must patiently remove the earth that props and
feeds it, and sever the accursed roots one by one.

352. Impatience here is a very bad sign. I do not like your patriots, who, because the tree
does not give way at once, fall to blaming all about them, accuse their fellow-sufferers of
cowardice, because they do not do that which they themselves dare not think of doing. Such
conduct argues chagrin and disappointment; and these argue a selfish feeling: they argue, that
there has been more of private ambition and gain at work than of public good. Such blamers,
such general accusers, are always to be suspected. What does the real patriot want more than
to feel conscious that he has done his duty towards his country; and that, if life should not
allow him time to see his endeavours crowned with success, his children will see it? The impatient
patriots are like the young men (mentioned in the beautiful fable of LA FONTAINE) who ridiculed
the man of fourscore, who was planting an avenue of very small trees, which, they told him,
that he never could expect to see as high as his head. 'Well,' said he, 'and what of that?
If their shade afford me no pleasure, it may afford pleasure to my children, and even to you;
and, therefore, the planting of them gives me pleasure.'

353. It is the want of the noble disinterestedness, so beautifully expressed in this fable,
that produces the impatient patriots. They wish very well to their country, because they want
some of the good for themselves. Very natural that all men should wish to see the good arrive,
and wish to share in it too; but, we must look on the dark side of nature to find the disposition
to cast blame on the whole community because our wishes are not instantly accomplished, and
especially to cast blame on others for not doing that which we ourselves dare not attempt.
There is, however, a sort of patriot a great deal worse than this; he, who having failed himself,
would see his country enslaved for ever, rather than see its deliverance achieved by others.
His failure has, perhaps, arisen solely from his want of talent, or discretion; yet his selfish
heart would wish his country sunk in everlasting degradation, lest his inefficiency for the
task should be established by the success of others. A very hateful character, certainly, but,
I am sorry to say, by no means rare. Envy, always associated with meanness of soul, always
detestable, is never so detestable as when it shows itself here.

354. Be it your care, my young friend (and I tender you this as my parting advice), if you
find this base and baleful passion, which the poet calls 'the eldest born of hell;' if you
find it creeping into your heart, be it your care to banish it at once and for ever; for, if
once it nestle there, farewell to all the good which nature has enabled you to do, and to your
peace into the bargain. It has pleased God to make an unequal distribution of talent, of industry,
of perseverance, of a capacity to labour, of all the qualities that give men distinction. We
have not been our own makers: it is no fault in you that nature has placed him above you, and,
surely, it is no fault in him; and would you punish him on account, and only on account, of
his pre-eminence! If you have read this book you will startle with horror at the thought: you
will, as to public matters, act with zeal and with good humour, though the place you occupy
be far removed from the first; you will support with the best of your abilities others, who,
from whatever circumstance, may happen to take the lead; you will not suffer even the consciousness
and the certainty of your own superior talents to urge you to do any thing which might by possibility
be injurious to your country's cause; you will be forbearing under the aggressions of ignorance,
conceit, arrogance, and even the blackest of ingratitude superadded, if by resenting these
you endanger the general good; and, above all things, you will have the justice to bear in
mind, that that country which gave you birth, is, to the last hour of your capability, entitled
to your exertions in her behalf, and that you ought not, by acts of commission or of omission,
to visit upon her the wrongs which may have been inflicted on you by the envy and malice of
individuals. Love of one's native soil is a feeling which nature has implanted in the human
breast, and that has always been peculiarly strong in the breasts of Englishmen. God has given
us a country of which to be proud, and that freedom, greatness and renown, which were handed
down to us by our wise and brave forefathers, bid us perish to the last man, rather than suffer
the land of their graves to become a land of slavery, impotence and dishonour.

355. In the words with which I concluded my English Grammar, which I addressed to my son James,
I conclude my advice to you. 'With English and French on your tongue and in your pen, you have
a resource, not only greatly valuable in itself, but a resource that you can be deprived of
by none of those changes and chances which deprive men of pecuniary possessions, and which,
in some cases, make the purse-proud man of yesterday a crawling sycophant to-day. Health, without
which life is not worth having, you will hardly fail to secure by early rising, exercise, sobriety,
and abstemiousness as to food. Happiness, or misery, is in the mind. It is the mind that lives;
and the length of life ought to be measured by the number and importance of our ideas, and
not by the number of our days. Never, therefore, esteem men merely on account of their riches
or their station. Respect goodness, find it where you may. Honour talent wherever you behold
it unassociated with vice; but, honour it most when accompanied with exertion, and especially
when exerted in the cause of truth and justice; and, above all things, hold it in honour, when
it steps forward to protect defenceless innocence against the attacks of powerful guilt.' These
words, addressed to my own son, I now, in taking my leave, address to you. Be just, be industrious,
be sober, and be happy; and the hope that these effects will, in some degree, have been caused
by this little work, will add to the happiness of

      Your friend and humble servant,

            WM. COBBETT.

Kensington, 25th Aug. 1830.

