In animals somewhat higher in the creative scale, more or less powerful feelings of affection
may develop out of their sex association. There is affection on the part of the male for his
mate, and on the part of the female for her young. Often these feelings develop into a strong,
lasting affection between the sexes, and years of what might be called faithful matrimonial
union have been observed in the case of birds. This in itself is sufficient to establish the
intimate relationship between love in a sex sense and love in a general sense. And even in
the animal creation we find the same analogy existing between these feelings of sympathy and
their opposites which occur in the case of human beings. Every feeling of attachment or sympathy
existing between two individuals has a counterpart in an opposite feeling of discontent when
the object of the love or attachment in question dies, falls sick, or runs away. This feeling
of discontent may assume the form of a sorrow ending in lasting melancholy. In the case of
apes and of certain parrots, it has been noticed that the death of a mate has frequently led
the survivor to refuse nourishment, and die in turn from increasing grief and depression. If,
on the other hand, an animal discovers the cause of the grief or loss which threatens it; if
some enemy creature tries to rob it of its mate or little ones, the mixed reactive feeling
of rage or anger is born in it, anger against the originator of its discontent. Jealousy is
only a definite special form of this anger reaction.

A further development of the feeling of sympathy is that of duty. Every feeling of love or
sympathy urges those who feel it to do certain things which will benefit the object of that
love. A mother will feed her young, bed them down comfortably, caress them; a father will bring
nourishment to the mother and her brood, and protect them against foes. All these actions,
not performed to benefit the creature itself, but to help its beloved mate, represent exertion,
trouble, the overcoming of danger, and lead to a struggle between egoism and the feeling of
sympathy. Out of this struggle is born a third feeling, that of responsibility and conscience.
Thus the elements of the human social feelings are already quite pronounced in the case of
many animals, including those of love as well as sex.

In the human animal, speaking in general, these feelings of sympathy (love) and duty are strongly
developed in the family connection; that is, they are developed with special strength in those
who are most intimately united in sex life, in husband and wife and in children. Consequently
the feelings of sympathy or love which extend to larger communal groups, such as more distant
family connections, the tribe, the community, those speaking the same tongue, the nation, are
relatively far weaker. Weakest of all, in all probability, is that general human feeling which
sees a brother in every other human being and is conscious of the social duties owed him.

As regards man and wife, the relation of the actual sex instinct to love is often a very complicated
one. In the case of man the sex feeling may, and frequently does exist independent of love
in the higher sense; in the case of woman it is quite certain that love occurs far less seldom
unaccompanied by the sex inclination. It is also quite possible for love to develop before
the development of the sex feeling, and this often, in married life, leads to the happiest
relationships.

