FERN'S HOLLOW

                           By HESBA STRETTON

Author of 'Jessica's First Prayer,' 'Alone in London' 'Pilgrim Street,' 'Little Meg's Children'
etc.

CONTENTS.

CHAP.

I.     THE HUT IN THE HOLLOW II.    THE DYING FATHER III.   STEPHEN'S FIRST VICTORY IV.   
THREATENING CLOUDS V.     MISS ANNE VI.    THE RED GRAVEL PIT VII.   POOR SNIP VIII.  STEPHEN
AND THE GAMEKEEPER IX.    HOMELESS X.     THE CABIN ON THE CINDER-HILL XI.    STEPHEN AND THE
RECTOR XII.   VISIT OF BLACK BESS XIII.  THE OLD SHAFT XIV.   A BROTHER'S GRIEF XV.   RENEWED
CONFLICT XVI.   SOFTENING THOUGHTS XVII.  A NEW CALLING XVIII. THE PANTRY WINDOW XIX.   FIRE!
FIRE! XX.    STEPHEN'S TESTIMONY XXI.   FORGIVENESS XXII.  THE MASTER'S DEATHBED XXIII. THE
HOME RESTORED

FERN'S HOLLOW

CHAPTER I.

THE HUT IN THE HOLLOW.

Just upon the border of Wales, but within one of the English counties, there is a cluster of
hills, rising one above the other in gradual slopes, until the summits form a long, broad tableland,
many miles across. This tableland is not so flat that all of it can be seen at once, but here
and there are little dells, shaped like deep basins, which the country folk call hollows; and
every now and then there is a rock or hillock covered with yellow gorse bushes, from the top
of which can be seen the wide, outspread plains, where hundreds of sheep and ponies are feeding,
which belong to the farmers and cottagers dwelling in the valley below. Besides the chief valley,
which divides the mountains into two groups, and which is broad enough for a village to be
built in, there are long, narrow glens, stretching up into the very heart of the tableland,
and draining away the waters which gather there by the melting of snow in the winter and the
rain of thunderstorms in summer. Down every glen flows a noisy mountain stream, dashing along
its rocky course with so many tiny waterfalls and impatient splashes, that the gurgling and
bubbling of brooks come up even into the quietness of the tableland and mingle with the singing
of the birds and the humming of the bees among the heather. There are not many paths across
the hills, except the narrow sheep-walks worn by the tiny feet of the sheep as they follow
one another in long, single lines, winding in and out through the clumps of gorse; and few
people care to explore the solitary plains, except the shepherds who have the charge of the
flocks, and tribes of village children who go up every summer to gather the fruit of the wild
and hardy bilberry wires.

The whole of this broad tableland, as well as the hills, are common pasture for the inhabitants
of the valleys, who have an equal right to keep sheep and ponies on the uplands with the lord
of the manor. But the property of the soil belongs to the latter, and he only has the power
of enclosing the waste so as to make fields and plant woods upon it, provided always that he
leaves a sufficient portion for the use of the villagers. In times gone by, however, when the
lord of the manor and his agent were not very watchful, it was the practice of poor persons,
who did not care how uncomfortably they lived, to seek out some distant hollow, or the farthest
and most hidden side of a hillock, and there build themselves such a low, small hut, as should
escape the notice of any passer-by, should they chance to go that way. Little by little, making
low fences which looked like the surrounding gorse bushes, they enclosed small portions of
the waste land, or, as it is called, encroached upon the common; and if they were able to keep
their encroachment without having their hedges broken down, or if the lord of the manor neglected
to demand rent for it for the space of twenty years, their fields and gardens became securely
and legally their own. Because of this right, therefore, are to be found here and there little
farms of three or four fields a-piece, looking like islands, with the wide, open common around
them; and some miles away over the breezy uplands there is even a little hamlet of these poor
cottages, all belonging to the people who dwell in them.

Many years ago, even many years before my story begins, a poor woman--who was far worse off
than a widow, for her husband had just been sentenced to transportation for twenty-one years--strayed
down to these mountains upon her sorrowful way home to her native place. She had her only child
with her, a boy five years of age; and from some reason or other, perhaps because she could
not bear to go home in shame and disgrace, she sought out a very lonely hiding-place among
the hills, and with her own hands reared rough walls of turf and stones, until she had formed
such a rude hut as would just give shelter to her and her boy. There they lived, uncared for
and solitary, until the husband came back, after suffering his twenty-one years' punishment,
and entered into a little spot of land entirely his own. Then, with the assistance of his son,
a strong, full-grown young man, he rebuilt the cottage, though upon a scale not much larger
or much more commodious than his wife's old hut.

Like other groups of mountains, the highest and largest are those near the centre, and from
them the land descends in lower and lower levels, with smaller hills and smoother valleys,
until at length it sinks into the plain. Then they are almost like children's hills and valleys;
the slopes are not too steep for very little feet to climb, and the rippling brooks are not
in so much hurry to rush on to the distant river, but that boys and girls at play can stop
them for a little time with slight banks of mud and stones. In just such a smooth, sloping
dell, down in a soft green basin, called Fern's Hollow, was the hiding-place where the convict's
sad wife had found an unmolested shelter.

This dwelling, the second one raised by the returned convict and his son, is built just below
the brow of the hill, so that the back of the hut is formed of the hill itself, and only the
sides and front are real walls. These walls are made of rubble, or loose, unhewn stones, piled
together with a kind of mortar, which is little more than clay baked hard in the heat of the
sun. The chimney is a bit of old stove-pipe, scarcely rising above the top of the hill behind;
and, but for the smoke, we could look down the pipe, as through the tube of a telescope, upon
the family sitting round the hearth within. The thatch, overgrown with moss, appears as a continuation
of the slope of the hill itself, and might almost deceive the simple sheep grazing around it.
Instead of a window there is only a square hole, covered by a shutter when the light is not
urgently needed; and the door is so much too small for its sill and lintels as to leave large
chinks, through which adventurous bees and beetles may find their way within. You may see at
a glance that there is but one room, and that there can be no up-stairs to the hut, except
that upper storey of the broad, open common behind it, where the birds sleep softly in their
cosy nests. Before the house is a garden; and beyond that a small field sown with silver oats,
which are dancing and glistening in the breeze and sunshine; while before the garden wicket,
but not enclosed from the common, is a warm, sunny valley, in the very middle of which a slender
thread of a brook widens into a lovely little basin of a pool, clear and cold, the very place
for the hill ponies to come and drink.

Looking steadily up this pleasant valley from the threshold of the cottage, we can just see
a fine, light film of white smoke against the blue sky. Two miles away, right down off the
mountains, there is a small coal-field and a quarry of limestone. In a distant part of the
country there are large tracts of land where coal and iron pits are sunk on every side, and
their desolate and barren pit-banks extend for miles round, while a heavy cloud of smoke hangs
always in the air. But here, just at the foot of these mountains, there is one little seam
of coal, as if placed for the express use of these people, living so far away from the larger
coal-fields. The Botfield lime and coal works cover only a few acres of the surface; but underground
there are long passages bored beneath the pleasant pastures and the yellow cornfields. From
the mountains, Botfield looks rather like a great blot upon the fair landscape, with its blackened
engine-house and banks of coal-dust, its long range of limekilns, sultry and quivering in the
summer sunshine, and its heavy, groaning water-wheel, which pumps up the water from the pits
below. But the colliers do not think it so, nor their wives in the scattered village beyond;
they do not consider the lime and coal works a blot, for their living depends upon them, and
they may rightly say, 'As for the earth, out of it cometh bread: and under it is turned up
as it were fire.'

Even Stephen Fern, who would a thousand times rather work out on the free hillside than in
the dark passages underground, does not think it a pity that the Botfield pit has been discovered
at the foot of the mountains. It is nearly seven o'clock in the evening, and he is coming over
the brow of the green dell, with his long shadow stretching down it. A very long shadow it
is for so small a figure to cast, for if we wait a minute or two till Stephen draws nearer,
we shall see that he is no strong, large man, but a slight, thin, stooping boy, bending rather
wearily under a sack of coals, which he is carrying on his shoulders, and pausing now and then
to wipe his heated forehead with the sleeve of his collier's flannel jacket. When he lifts
up the latch of his home we will enter with him, and see the inside of the hut at Fern's Hollow.

CHAPTER II.

THE DYING FATHER.

Stephen stepped over the threshold into a low, dark room, which was filled with smoke, from
a sudden gust of the wind as it swept over the roof of the hut. On one side of the grate, which
was made of some half-hoops of iron fastened into the rock, there was a very aged man, childish
and blind with years, who was crouching towards the fire, and talking and chuckling to himself.
A girl, about a year older than Stephen, sat in a rocking-chair, and swung to and fro as she
knitted away fast and diligently at a thick grey stocking. In the corner nearest to the fireplace
there stood a pallet-bed, hardly raised above the earthen floor, to which Stephen hastened
immediately, with an anxious look at the thin, white face of his father lying upon the pillow.
Beside the sick man there lay a little child fast asleep, with her hand clasping one of her
father's fingers; and though James Fern was shaking and trembling with a violent fit of coughing
from the sudden gust of smoke, he took care not to loose the hold of those tiny fingers.

'Poor little Nan!' he whispered to Stephen, as soon as he could speak. 'I've been thinking
all day of her and thee, lad, till I'm nigh heart-broken.'

'Do you feel worse, father?' asked Stephen anxiously.

'I'm drawing nearer the end,' answered James Fern,--'nearer the end every hour; and I don't
know for certain what the end will be. I'm repenting; but I can't undo the mischief I've done;
I must leave that behind me. If I'd been anything like a decent father, I should have left
you comfortable, instead of poor beggars. And what is to become of my poor lass here? See how
fast she clips my hand, as if she was afeared I was going to leave her! Oh, Stephen, my lad,
what will you all do?'

'Father,' said Stephen, in a quiet and firm voice, 'I'm getting six shillings a week wages,
and we can live on very little. We haven't got any rent to pay, and only ourselves and grandfather
to keep, and Martha is as good as a woman grown. We'll manage, father, and take care of little
Nan.'

'Stephen and I are not bad, father,' added Martha, speaking up proudly; 'I am not like Black
Bess of Botfield. Mother always told me I was to do my duty; and I always do it. I can wash,
and sew, and iron, and bake, and knit. Why, often and often we've had no more than Stephen's
earnings, when you've been to the Red Lion on reckoning nights.'

'Hush, hush, Martha!' whispered Stephen.

'No, it's true,' groaned the dying father; 'God Almighty, have mercy on me! Stephen, hearken
to me, and thee too, Martha, while I tell you about this place, and what you are to do when
I'm gone.'

He paused for a minute or two, looking earnestly at the crouching old man in the chimney-corner.

'Grandfather's quite simple,' he said, 'and he's dark, too, and doesn't know what any one is
saying. But I know thee'lt be good to him, Stephen. Hearken, children: your poor old grandfather
was once in jail, and was sent across the seas, for a thief.'

'Father!' cried Stephen, in a tone of deep distress; and he turned quickly to the old man,
remembering how often he had sat upon his knees by the winter fire, and how many summer days
he had rambled with him over the uplands after the sheep. His grandfather had been far kinder
to him than his own father; and his heart swelled with anger as he went and laid his arm round
the bending neck of the old man, who looked up in his face and laughed heartily.

'Come back, Stephen; it's true,' gasped James Fern. 'Poor mother and me came here, where nobody
knew us, while he was away for more than twenty years; and she built a hut for-us to live in
till he came back. I was a little lad then, but as soon as I was big enough she made me learn
to read and write, that I might send letters to him beyond the seas and none of the neighbours
know. She'd often make me read to her about a poor fellow who had left home and gone to a far
country, and when he came home again, how his father saw him a long way off. Well, she was
just like that when she'd heard that he was landed in England; she did nought but sit over
the bent of the hill yonder, peering along the road to Botfield; and one evening at sundown
she saw something, little more than a speck upon the turf, and she'd a feeling come over her
that it was he, and she fainted for real joy. After all, we weren't much happier when we were
settled down like. Grandfather had learned to tend sheep out yonder, and I worked at Botfield;
but we never laid by money to build a brick house, as poor mother always wanted us. She died
a month or so afore I was married to your mother.'

James Fern was silent again for some minutes, leaning back upon his pillow, with his eyes closed,
and his thoughts gone back to the old times.

'If I'd only been like mother, you'd have been a hill-farmer now, Steve,' he continued, in
a tone of regret; 'she plotted out in her own mind to take in the green before us, for rearing
young lambs, and ducks, and goslings. But I was like that poor lad that wasted all his substance
in riotous living; and I've let thee and thy sister grow up without even the learning I could
have given thee; and learning is light carriage. But, lad, remember this house is thy own,
and never part with it; never give it up, for it is thy right. Maybe they'll want to turn thee
out, because thee art a boy; but I've lived in it nigh upon forty years, and I've written it
all down upon this piece of paper, and that the place is thine, Stephen.'

'I'll never give it up, father,' said Stephen, in his steady voice.

'Stephen,' continued his father, 'the master has set his heart upon it to make it a hill-farm;
and thou'lt have hard work to hold thy own against him. Thou must frame thy words well when
he speaks to thee about it, for he's a cunning man. And there's another paper, which the parson
at Danesford has in his keeping, to certify that mother built this house and dwelt in it all
the days of her life, more than thirty years; if there's any mischief worked against thee,
go to him for it. And now, Stephen, wash thyself, and get thy supper, and then let's hear thee
read thy chapter.'

Stephen carried his basin of potatoes to the door-sill and sat there, with his back turned
to the dismal hut and his dying father, and his face looking out upon the green hills. He had
always been a grave and thoughtful boy; and he had much to think of now. The deep sense of
new duties and obligations that had come upon him with his father's words, made him feel that
his boyhood had passed away. He looked round upon the garden, and the field, and the hut, with
the keen eye of an owner; and he wondered at the neglected state into which they had fallen
since his father's illness. There could be no more play-time for him; no bird's-nesting among
the gorse-bushes; no rabbit-bunting with Snip, the little white terrier that was sharing his
supper. If little Nan and his grandfather were to be provided for, he must be a man, with a
man's thoughtfulness, doing man's work. There seemed enough work for him to do in the field
and garden alone, without his twelve hours' toil in the coal-pit; but his weekly wages would
now be more necessary than ever. He must get up early, and go to bed late, and labour without
a moment's rest, doing his utmost from one day to another, with no one to help him, or stand
for a little while in his place. For a few minutes his brave spirit sank within him, and all
the landscape swam before his eyes; while Snip took advantage of his master's inattention to
put his nose into the basin, and help himself to the largest share of the potatoes.

'I mean to be like grandmother,' said Martha's clear, sharp voice, close beside him, and he
saw his sister looking eagerly round her. 'I shall fence the green in, and have lambs and sheep
to turn out on the hillside, and I'll rear young goslings and ducks for market; and we'll have
a brick house, with two rooms in it, as well as a shed for the coal. What sort of a man is
the master, Martha?'

'He's a bad, unjust, niggardly old miser,' replied Martha.

'And if God sends him rain, and takes care of him,' Stephen said, 'how much more care will
He take of us, if we are good, and try to do His commandments!'

'I should think,' said Martha, but in a softer tone, 'I should really think He would give us
the green, and the lambs, and the new house, and everything; for both of us are good, Stephen.'

'I don't know,' replied Stephen; 'if I could read all the Bible, perhaps it would tell us.
But now I must go in and read my chapter to father.'

Martha went back to her rocking-chair and knitting, while Stephen reached down from a shelf
an old Bible, covered with green baize, and, having carefully looked that his hard hands were
quite clean, he opened it with the greatest reverence. James Fern had only begun to teach the
boy to read a few months before, when he felt the first fatal symptoms of his illness; and
Stephen, with his few opportunities for learning, had only mastered one chapter, the fifth
chapter of St. Matthew's Gospel, which his father had chosen for him to begin with. The sick
man lay still with closed eyes, but listening attentively to every word, and correcting his
son whenever he made any mistake. When it was finished, James Fern read a few verses aloud
himself, with low voice and frequent pauses to regain his strength; and very soon afterwards
the whole family were in a deep sleep, except himself.

CHAPTER III.

STEPHEN'S FIRST VICTORY.

James Fern did not live many more days, and he was buried the Sunday following his death. All
the colliers and pitmen from Botfield walked with the funeral of their old comrade and made
a great burial of it. The parish church was two miles on the other side of Botfield, and four
miles from Fern's Hollow; so James Fern and his family had never, as he called it, 'troubled'
the church with their attendance. All the household, even to little Nan, went with their father's
corpse, to bury it in the strange and distant churchyard. Stephen felt as if he was in some
long and painful dream, as he sat in the cart, with his feet resting upon his father's coffin,
with his grandfather on a chair at the head, nodding and laughing at every jolt on the rough
road, and Martha holding a handkerchief up to her face, and carrying a large umbrella over
herself and little Nan, to keep the dust off their new black bonnets. The boy, grave as he
was, could hardly think; he felt in too great a maze for that. The church, too, which he had
never entered before, seemed grand and cold and immense, with its lofty arches, and a roof
so high that it made him giddy to look up to it. Now and then he heard a few sentences of the
burial service sounding out grandly in the clergyman's strange, deep voice; but they were not
words he was familiar with, and he could not understand their meaning. At the open grave only,
the clergyman said 'Our Father,' which his father had taught him during his illness; and while
his tears rolled down his cheeks for the first time that day, Stephen repeated over and over
again to himself, 'Our Father! our Father!'

Stephen would have liked to stay in the church for the evening service, for which the bells
were already ringing; but this did not at all suit the tastes of his father's old comrades.
They made haste to crowd into a public-house, where they sat and drank, and forced Stephen
to drink too, in order to 'drown his grief.' It was still a painful dream to him; and more
and more, as the long hours passed on, he wondered how he came there, and what all the people
about him were doing. It was quite dark before they started homewards, and the poor old grandfather
was no longer able to sit up in his chair, but lay helplessly at the bottom of the cart. Even
Martha was fast asleep, and leaned her head upon Stephen's shoulder, without any regard for
her new black bonnet. The cart was now crowded with as many of the people as could get into
it, who sang and shouted along the quiet Sunday road; and, as they insisted upon stopping at
every public-house they came to, it was very late before they reached the lane leading up to
Fern's Hollow. The grandfather was half dragged and half carried along by two of the men, followed
by Stephen bearing sleepy little Nan in his arms, and by Martha, who had wakened up in a temper
between crying and scolding. The long, strange, painful dream of father's funeral was not over
yet, and Stephen was still trying to think in a stupid, drowsy fashion, when he fell heavily
asleep on the bed beside his grandfather.

He awoke by habit very early in the morning, and aroused himself with a great effort against
dropping asleep again. He could realize and understand his position better now. Father was
dead; and there was no one to earn bread for them all but himself. At this thought he sprang
up instantly, though his head was aching in a manner he had never felt before. With some difficulty
he awoke Martha to get his breakfast and put up his dinner in a basket which he carried with
him to the pit. She also complained bitterly of her head aching, and moved about with a listlessness
very different to her usual activity. 'I only wish I knew what was right,' said Stephen to
himself; 'they told us we ought to show respect for father, but I don't think he'd like this.
Perhaps if I could read the Bible all through, that would tell me everything.'

This thought reminded Stephen that he had promised his father to read his chapter every day
of his life till he knew how to read more; and, carrying the old Bible to his favourite seat
on the door-sill, a very pleasant place in the cool, fresh summer morning, he read the verses
aloud, slowly and carefully, rather repeating than reading them, for he knew his chapter better
by heart than by the printed letters in the book. Thank God, Stephen Fern did begin to know
it by heart!

It was not a bad day in the pit. All the colliers, men and boys, were more gentle than usual
with the fatherless lad; and even Black Thompson, his master since his father's illness, who
was in general a fierce bully to everybody about him, spoke as mildly as he could to Stephen.
Yet all the day Stephen longed for his release in the evening, thinking how much work there
wanted doing in the garden, and how he and Martha must be busy in it till nightfall. The clanking
of the chain which drew him up to the light of day sounded like music to him; but little did
he guess that an enemy was lying in wait for him at the mouth of the pit. 'Hillo!' cried a
voice down the shaft as they were nearing the top; 'one of you chaps have got to carry a sack
o' coals one mile.'

The voice belonged to Tim Cole, who was the terror of the pit-bank, from his love of mischief
and his insatiable desire for fighting. He was looking down the shaft now, with a grin and
a laugh upon his red face, round which his shaggy red hair hung like a rough mane. There were
only two other boys besides Stephen in the skip, and as their fathers were with them it might
be dangerous to meddle with them; so Tim fixed upon Stephen as his prey.

'Thee has got to carry these coals, Steve,' he said, his eyes dancing with delight.

'I won't,' replied Stephen.

'Thee shalt,' cried Tim, with an oath.

'I won't,' Stephen repeated stedfastly.

'Then we'll fight for it,' said Tim, clenching his fists and squaring his arms, while the men
and boys formed a ring round the two lads, and one and another spoke encouragingly to Stephen,
who was somewhat slighter and younger than Tim. He had beaten Tim once before, but that was
months ago; yet the blood rushed into Stephen's face, and he set his lips together firmly.
Up yonder, just within the range of his sight, was Fern's Hollow, with its neglected garden,
and his supper waiting for him; and here was the heavy sack of coals to be carried for a mile,
or the choice of fighting with Tim.

'I wish I knew what I ought to do,' he said, speaking aloud, though speaking to himself.

'Ay, ay, lad,' cried Black Thompson; 'it's a shame to make thee fight, and thy father not cold
in the graveyard yet. I say, Tim, what is it thee wants?'

'These coals,' answered Tim doggedly, 'are to be carried to the New Farm; and if Stevie Fern
won't take them one mile, he must fight me afore he goes off this bank.'

'Now, lads, I'll judge between ye this time,' said Black Thompson. 'Stevie shall carry them
to the end of Red Lane, and cut across the hill home: that's not much out of the way; and if
Tim makes him go one step farther, I'll lick thee myself to-morrow, lad, I promise thee.'

Stephen hoisted the sack upon his shoulders in silence, and strode away with a swelling heart,
in which a tumult of anger and perplexity was raging. 'If I had only a commandment about these
things!' he thought. He was not quite certain whether it would not have been best and wisest
to fight with Tim and have it out; especially as Tim was all the time taunting him for being
a coward. But his father had read much to him during the last three months; and though he could
not remember any particular commandment, he felt sure that the Bible did not encourage fighting
or drunkenness. Suddenly, and before they reached the end of Red Lane, a light burst upon Stephen's
mind.

'I say, Tim,' he said, speaking to him for the first time, 'it's four miles to the New Farm,
and I'll go with thee a mile farther than Red Lane.'

'Eh!' cried Tim; 'and get Black Thompson to lick me to-morrow?'

'No,' said Stephen earnestly, 'I'll not tell Black Thompson; and if he hears talk of it, I'll
say I did it of my own mind. Come thy ways, Tim; let's be sharp, for I've my potatoes to hoe
when I get home to-night.'

The boys walked briskly on for a few minutes, past the end of Red Lane, though Stephen cast
a wistful glance up it, and gave an impatient jerk to the load upon his shoulders. Tim had
been walking beside him in silent reflection; but at last he came to a sudden halt.

'I can't make it out,' he said. 'What art thee up to, Stephen? Tell me out plain, or I'll fight
thee here, if Black Thompson does lick me for it.'

'Why, I've been learning to read,' answered Stephen, with some pride, 'and of course I know
things I didn't used to know, and what thee doesn't know now.'

'And what's that to do with it?' inquired Tim.

'My chapter says that if any man forces me to go one mile, I am to go two,' replied Stephen;
'it doesn't say why exactly, but I'm going to try what good it will be to me to do everything
that my book tells me.'

'It's a queer book,' said Tim, after a pause. 'Does it say a chap may make another chap do
his work for him?'

'No,' Stephen answered; 'but it says we are to love our enemies, and do good to them that hate
us, that we may be the children of our Father which is in heaven--that is God, Tim. So that
is why I am going a mile farther with thee.'

'I don't hate thee,' said Tim uneasily, 'but I do love fighting; I'd liever thee'd fight than
come another mile. Don't thee come any farther, I've been bone lazy all day, and thee's been
at work. And I say, Stevie, I'll help thee with the potatoes to-morrow, to make up for this bout.'

Stephen thanked him, and accepted his offer heartily. The load was quickly transferred to Tim's
broad back, and the boys parted in more good-will than they had ever felt before; Stephen strengthened
by this favourable result in his resolution to put in practice all he knew of the Bible; and
Tim deep in thought, as was evident from his muttering every now and then on his way to the
New Farm, 'Queer book that; and a queer chap too!'

CHAPTER IV.

THREATENING CLOUDS.

Little Nan would be waiting for him, as well as his supper, and Stephen forgot his weariness
as he bounded along the soft turf, to the great discomfiture of the brown-faced sheep, quite
as anxious for their supper as he was for his.

Stephen heard far off Snip's sharp, impatient bark, and it made him quicken his steps still
more, until, coming within sight of his own Hollow, he stopped suddenly, and his heart beat
even more vehemently than when he was running up the hillside.

There was, however, nothing very terrible in the scene. The hut was safe, and the sun was shining
brightly upon the garden, and little Nan was standing as usual at the wicket. Only in the oat-field,
with their faces looking across the green, stood two men in close conversation. These men were
both of them old, and rather thin and shrivelled in figure; their features bore great resemblance
to each other, the eyes being small and sunken, with many wrinkles round them, and both mouths
much fallen in. You would have said at once they were brothers; and if you drew near enough
to hear their conversation, you would have found your guess was right.

'Brother Thomas,' said the thinnest and sharpest-looking, 'I intend to enclose as far as we
can see from this point. That southern bank will be a first-rate place for young animals. I
shall build a house, with three rooms above and below, besides a small dairy; and I shall plant
a fir-wood behind it to keep off the east winds. The lime and bricks from my own works will
not cost me much more than the expense of bringing them up here.'

'And a very pretty little hill-farm you'll make of it, James,' replied Thomas Wyley admiringly.
'I should not wonder now if you got £20 a year rent for it.'

'I shall get £25 in a few years,' said the other one: 'just think of the run for ponies on
the hill, to say nothing of sheep. A young, hard-working man could make a very tidy living
up here; and we shall have a respectable house, instead of a pauper's family.'

'It will be a benefit to the neighbourhood,' observed Thomas Wyley.

The latter speaker, who was a degree pleasanter-looking than his brother, was the relieving
officer of the large union to which Botfield belonged; and, in consequence, all poor persons
who had grown too old, or were in any way unable to work, were compelled to apply to him for
the help which the laws of our country provide for such cases. James Wyley, the elder brother,
was the owner of Botfield works, and the master of all the people employed in them, besides
being the agent of the lord of the manor. So both these men possessed great authority over
the poor; and they used the power to oppress them and grind them down to the utmost. It was
therefore no wonder that Stephen stopped instantly when he saw their well-known figures standing
at the corner of his oat-field; nor that he should come on slowly after he had recovered his
courage, pondering in his own mind what they were come up to Fern's Hollow for, and how he
should answer them if they should want him to give up the old hut.

'Good evening, my lad,' said James Wyley, smiling a slow, reluctant smile, as Stephen drew
near to them with his cap in his hand. 'So you buried your father yesterday, I hear. Poor fellow!
there was not a better collier at Botfield than James Fern.'

'Never troubled his parish for a sixpence,' added Thomas Wyley.

'Thank you, master,' said Stephen, the tears starting to his eyes, so unexpected was this gentle
greeting to him; 'I'll try to be like father.'

'Well, my boy,' said Thomas Wyley, 'we are come up here on purpose to give you our advice,
as you are such a mere lad. I've been thinking what can be done for you. There's your grandfather,
a poor, simple, helpless old man, and the little girl--why, of course we shall have to receive
them into the House; and I'll see there is no difficulty made about it. Then we intend to get
your sister into some right good service.'

'I should not mind taking her into my own house,' said the master, Mr. James Wyley; 'she would
soon learn under my niece Anne. So you will be set free to get your own living without encumbrance;
you are earning your six shillings now, and that will keep you well.'

'Please, sir,' answered Stephen, 'we mean to live all together as we've been used; and I couldn't
let grandfather and little Nan come upon the parish. Martha must stay at home to mind them;
and I'll work my fingers to the bone for them all, sir. Many thanks all the same to you for
coming up here to see after us.'

'Very fine indeed, my little fellow,' said Thomas Wyley; 'but you don't understand what you
are talking about. It is my place to see after the poor, and I cannot leave you in charge of
such a very old man and such a child as this, No, no; they must be taken care of; and they'll
be made right comfortable in the House.'

'Father said,' replied Stephen, 'that I was never to let grandfather and little Nan come upon
the parish. I get my wages, and we've no rent to pay; and the potatoes and oats will help us;
and Martha can pick bilberries on the hill, and carry bundles of firing to the village; and
we'll do well enough without the parish. Many thanks all the same to you, sir.'

'Hark ye, my lad,' said the master impatiently. 'I want to buy your old hut and field from
you. I'll give ye a ten-pound note for it; a whole ten pounds. Why, a fortune for you!'

'Father said,' repeated Stephen, 'I was never to give up Fern's Hollow; and I gave him a sure
promise for that, and to take care of little Nan as long as ever I lived.'

'Fern's Hollow is none of yours,' cried the master, in a rage; 'you've just been a family of
paupers and squatters, living up here by poaching and thieving. I'll unearth you, I promise
ye; you have been a disgrace to the manor long enough. So it is ten pounds or nothing for your
old hole; and you may take your choice.'

'Please, sir,' said Stephen firmly, 'the place is ours, and I'm never to part with it. Put it in an envelope, closed it and went, and gave
it to Juan Gonzalez.

Bye it, and opening the door to leave, Father Hurtado stopped him
saying:

- Wait a minute, bro.

He left his desk, dipped two fingers in holy water font hanging on
the wall and played with them the hand of the worker, telling him
affectionately;

- Go with God!

The Rector of Carrión de la Vega carefully opened the envelope that
had just given the keeper, and took the letter from Father Hurtado
read it, and without raising his head, looked at Brother over his
glasses.

- I do not understand this, he said.

Who has brought this paper?

- A man who does not know.

It seems workers.

- Do not bring any message from word?

- Nothing has told me, Father.

-
Where is this man?

- Wait on the net.

- I will see him.

Slightly annoyed, the burly Father Rodriguez painstakingly rose from his seat, not without gaze to
the pile of letters on his desk waiting for reply, and headed for
the goal.

- Good afternoon.

- Good evening, Father, said Juan Gonzalez,
his face lit by hope.

- Have you brought this bill of Padre Hurtado?

"Yes, Lord.

- And you said nothing to tell me in words?

- Nada, Padre.

- It's weird. Then please wait a moment.

The Rector was surprised.

That a man like Father Hurtado had written those few words, as lack
of common sense, was absurd.

In the galleries immediately to the goal Father found the Attorney
and the First Mayor, who, seeing his superior up their caps respectfully.

-
Father Howard has gone mad, Rector said without preamble.

- Impossible!
exclaimed at the same time the other two.

- So how do you explain
that I send this ticket? asked, and handed the paper to Prefect, who
read aloud the following lines:

- "Dear Father Rodriguez: I would
be grateful to bury the bearer of this.

His affectionate. Brother in Xto. Alonso Hurtado, SJ "

There was silence. Father Espadaler Minister, had the sanest man in the province could not have written
those words.

Instinctively, the three priests went to the net to question Juan
Gonzalez sure that it was a joke.

But John Smith, lying on the ground, face up, eyes wide open. Two wires black blood staining
his upper lip, left hand was clenched against his chest.

                Similia similibus

A LUIS CASTILLO LEDON.

As died the famous homeopath Dr. Idiáquez, I can preserve the secrecy imposed on me under my
word.

Exactly ten years ago began the strange illness that prompted my visit to that optional, and whose
rapid healing was the first step of his fame. From childhood I was sick and weak, so I can
say without much exaggeration, that all my children and half my youth
were spent in doctors' offices.

Indeed, it was a wonder to all my it was me living relatives. Just turned thirty years, I
began to suffer the most acute headaches imaginable, which every day increased the degree of
me real life a martyrdom. I just rested them in his sleep, and therefore Morfeo which constantly
tried to woo.

But the day came that the dream could not even scare my sufferings, and the strangest thing the
case was that, as he dreamed of the most fantastic and beautiful, were sharper the pains that tortured
me. Understandably, therefore, that so I wanted to escape the dream, rushing heavy doses of coffee
and hoped I longed for death as a liberation. More, Despite all my efforts to stay awake and horror
that I saw come night, finally overcame me sleep, and then presented themselves to my mind the
strangest views you can imagine, even in this world inexplicable. Meteor showers, Kaleidoscope
auroras, strange blooms, continuously fills my mind, sometimes over
a sea phosphorescent I saw a galleon sailing toward me gold canopy
of crimson and scarlet, while indescribable harmony sounded in my
ears.

And as, again, that these visions were most beautiful, sharp was the pain that tormented my brain.
And such terror took possession of my soul that not not understand how I ended up in a madhouse.

None
of the doctors I consulted my choice was wrong and did not put an end to my days with my own
hand, because of my religious principles. Finally, on the advice not remember what famous physician,
determined that several of the most eminent doctors city ​​to meet in consultation, and after
two hours more painful interrogation, spoke my sentence.

My illness was incurable and would degenerate into madness, the tumor that had formed in my
brain was inoperable and death was approaching, albeit slowly.

I left that office as a drunken man. He said he had often wished for death, however, that day
I loved life, despite my horrible suffering. Seized my mind, as should be expected, I walked to my
house for remote streets, afraid to find someone you know.

Suddenly, momentum did not know what set my sights on a small metal plate on the door of a dirty room.
I read the sign: "Dr. Idiáquez, Homeopath" and almost without thinking
about what I did, I entered the house and climbed the rickety ladder.

Dr. Idiáquez was an ordinary man and gaunt, and his office a dirty and miserable garret. Both
reminded me right away, the scene of the apothecary in 'Romeo and Juliet. "

I explained my illness and the opinion of doctors to consult, and
I heard Dr. Idiáquez with the greatest attention.

- The Sickness
of you, I said at last, is strange indeed, and comes into effect a
tumor that has formed in his brain, but is not only incurable, but
I can save him it in three days.

- What!

I exclaimed, not wanting to believe his ears.

- Simply replied calmly.

Here you have these cells that will take you every three hours, three of the vial marked A. B. Marking
and four alternately. Today is Monday, next Friday come and see me, and healed.

I paid the modest fee, and went downstairs quickly, as if flying on the wings of hope. The afternoon
was warm and fragrant, and the sun looked like a fire in the distant mountains.

That night, for the first time, I left my sufferings, but also beautiful dreams fled, and I was
tormented by nightmares. These increased to such an extent in the two following nights, I can
assure you that neither Dante could imagine in the deepest Avernus.

At last the longed-Friday, and effectively free of any physical and moral suffering, I climbed
the rickety stairs to the office of Dr. Idiáquez. This got me kindly, and assured me that my
healing was final. That day I bought a bust of Hahnmann and placed in a prominent place in
my library.

Needless to say I think the news of my healing quickly spread throughout the country and Dr. Idiáquez
name soon became famous.

Thereafter, made the most amazing cures, and after a short time,
brought a considerable fortune.

What more intrigued by his patients was ever prescribed, but he provided
the drugs, usually marked with letters, although sometimes with numbers.

Naturally, he contracted with ties of close friendship and visited him often in his new and luxurious
home. One day I dared to say:

- Doctor, long ago I wanted to ask a question.

- What is it?

- What is blood made up that gave me my wonderful healing?

-
My friend, that's my secret, but since you will owe my fortune, I
tell you, if I promise, if I swear, not to say during my lifetime.

           As he dies, you are hereby released to proclaim from the rooftops.

I made the promise required, and with a smile so sad - I've never seen a man's face a sad smile,
- said Dr. Idiáquez slowly

- The cells marked "A" is composed of water and sugar, those marked "B" sugar and water.

OLD MASTER

A LUIS GARCIA PIMENTEL

Sandoval Hernandez family, opulent ten years ago and now almost destitute, was a of the most
respectable of Mexico City. As the main basis of his fortune included the vast estates he owned,
from the time of the conquest, known today State of Morelos, fertile
region, where it is cultivated with sugar cane preference.

Retain many of the Mexican haciendas in the nature of them knew their strengths former owners,
while others, which are not known for its architecture, many, however, natural beauty, all of
which makes a visit to one of these farms are not lack generally of interest.

Despite the close friendship between the Sandoval Hernandez with my family, from long years, I
had not had occasion to visit any of their estates, though they themselves had spent long periods in ours,
located in the center of the country, so that, as offered the opportunity to accompany the
child from the home, Antonio and can let go of my not multiple, but necessary chores, I took
it gladly so pleasant to go company to tour the main house of his house, famous for its wealth and
natural charms.

We left Mexico on the night of August 10 and arrived at dawn to the historic city ​​of Puebla de
los Angeles. All the next day we had on board the train, Travel annoyed by the excessive heat
could be felt and we all win admiring removed Along the way, rich
and diverse in culture and outlook.

And are burdened by high temperature, we arrive at the early hours of the night to small station,
whose Indian name I do not remember, and where we expect the Administrator
of the farm and several young men, each with horses.

We started walking course, and, either because the night in the field
was relatively cool, compared with inconvenience of the railroad,
or because I saw near the end of the journey, the journey seemed short.

Shortly after leaving the station, I saw drawn in the shadows of the night skyline the huge mole
which formed the famous Hacienda San Javier.

And this figure, fuzzy at first, was quickly defined, allowing to
realize, first, high chimney of the mill, then the slender tower and
graceful dome of the church, the pockets of rooftops and, in short,
all the main details of the building.

Little or nothing had spoken, and assuming that Antonio would teach me the next day all Details
of the estate, I refrained from asking questions, but, on entering
the huge patio, or rather square, which was outside the building,
so I was surprised the strange silhouette of a man on the parapet
of the roof, which could not help but exclaim:

- Who is that guy
who awaits your arrival in such a bizarre attitude?

Because it should be noted that sat on the railing (at imminent risk of falling), and covered
with the most exaggerated high top hat.

Antonio laughed and said only:

- Ah! Tomorrow I'll introduce you.

We dismounted from our horses in a wide porch, and after presentations
bookkeeping and other dependents of the estate, in the "purge", or
main office we went to take a very light dinner, then to cast in the
coveted arms of Morpheus.

A small annoyance flitted across the face of my friend, to inform
the administrator that most of the rooms in the house were under repair
and being painted therefore, were available only to sleep in them,
two bedrooms, a small, another, in contrast, vast.

Needless to say I think it was me courtesy of my friend and on entering
it was my pleasant surprise to find very fresh, and see that the bed
was placed next to a window door that communicated with the broker
or open gallery covering the entire front and side of the upper floor
of the house.

Measured this corridor about four feet wide by as many of elevation, was vaulted, and the broad
arcs outlining the enchanting landscape, the shadows of the night, had a sweetness and serenity
rare, perfumed the air with the various plants of those climates.

Despite the fatigue I felt, I spent a short time not in the solitude of that gallery, lost in
thought, and a slight ringing in the ears, hear the silence, which only interrupted from time to
time, the barking of a dog in the "real" not far away.

I finally got between the sheets, leaving the window open, and then fell asleep.

I did not know how long it was, when I awoke to the loud cough of a person. This seemed to be in the
corridor, a few paces from me, and I knew immediately that was the "caretaker" that any estate is usually
around at night. As the cough did not abate but, rather, agravábase so that the poor man seemed
to be at risk of drowning, jumped out of bed for give help, but what was my surprise when I
went to the gallery, to find that no only stopped the cough, but the lamp or whatever, was
not there!

Torné to bed and a few moments, the event was repeated with identical results, and two and
three times more until I got to assume that the man would be in some remote corner of the
corridor, which, being vaulted transmit the echo of a cough, making it heard as if in the very
door of my bedroom.

The next morning, reported the ugly incident that disrupted my sleep, wanted Antonio find out
who was the watchman who had had such bad night at the gallery, but the manager said flatly that no
one, because at that time of complete tranquility was unnecessary The existence of such servant.
And the repeated instances that someone had have been, the defense, after being questioned all
the employees and servants, was always the same.

Without giving more importance to the matter, because in fact had little, we started the visit
of large building, shadowing strength, convent and cottage all in one, dating from sixteenth
century, the magnificent church, whose tower and dome tiles echoed in its rays tropical sun,
and the boiler house, or mill itself, a huge building completely modern and, to me, fast interest.
Touring the house roof, Antonio made the presentation the curious character who called my attention
yesterday. It was a stone statue! And Unless I burst out laughing at her, sculpted with the utmost
rudeness, representing an individual of angular and disproportionate appearance, sitting on
the edge of the roof with his legs crossed, below the knees, and hands clapping in attitude.
So nothing missing to this work of art, he found himself smeared from the tip of the hat to exaggerated
feet, a bright pink.

- Here you go, "said Antonio, who promised to introduce. As you see, is a work of art. Herrera called
Goya.

To not laugh at a family member, I'll tell you Don Joaquin de Herrera Goya was my ancestor,
but not straight, he died unmarried; his sister, my fourth grandmother,
he inherited this farm and I do not know if she is to be so beautiful
statue. It is customary to paint each year, and now you see pink,
has been painted in blue, yellow, green, anything but black, because
the belief is here - things from Indians - that if he were to be painted
that color, something terrible would happen. The position hands indicates
not going to applaud, but the distance with them is the size measured
of the loaves of sugar were produced on his farm and filled his pockets
with doubloons. The tradition does not have very flattering things
to this man, the refer you someday.

He did not stop falling in grace
the ridiculous character, and going down to the patio and watch from
there I noticed that was located on the corridor, just above the site
where that gave access to the door of my bedroom window.

The garden
of the property, extensive and fertile, caught my attention for its
eastern side, due large part to a pool with a fountain that was in it. Tim sang loudly and
lustily, getting out of tune very often. But little Nan was a marvel to hear, so soft and sweet
were her childish tones, so that Miss Anne bade her sing the verse alone, which she did perfectly.
Martha, too, was full of admiration of the lady's lilac silk dress and the white ribbon on
her bonnet.

That was the first of many pleasant Sunday mornings in the Red Gravel Pit. When the novelty
was worn away, Martha discovered that she had too much to do at home to be able to leave it
so early in the day; and Tim sometimes overslept himself on a Sunday, when most of his comrades
spent the whole morning in bed. But Stephen and little Nan were always there, and their teacher
never failed to meet them. Nor did Miss Anne confine her care of the orphan children to a Sunday
morning only. Sometimes she would mount the hill during the long summer evenings, and pay their
little household a visit, giving Martha many quiet hints about her management and her outlay
of Stephen's wages; hints which Martha did not always receive as graciously as they were given.
Miss Anne would read also to the blind old grandfather, choosing very simple and easy portions
of the Bible, especially about the lost sheep being found, as that pleased the old shepherd,
and he could fully understand its meaning. In general, Miss Anne was very cheerful, and she
would laugh merrily at times; but now and then her face looked pale and sad, and her voice
was very mournful while she talked and sang with them. Once, even, when she bade Stephen 'good
evening,' an exceedingly sorrowful expression passed across her face, and she said to him,
'I find it quite as hard work to serve God really and truly as you do, Stephen. There is only
one Helper for both of us; and we can only do all things through Christ which strengtheneth us.'

But Stephen could not believe that good, gentle Miss Anne found it as hard to be a Christian
as he did. Everything seemed against him at the works. The short indulgence from hard words
and hard blows granted him after his father's death was followed by what appeared to be a very
tempest of oppression. It was very soon understood that the master had a private grudge against
the boy; and though the workpeople were ground down and wronged in a hundred ways by him, so
as to fill them with hatred and revenge, they were not the less willing to take advantage of
his spite against Stephen. His work underground, which had always been distasteful to him compared
with a shepherd's life on the hills, was now made more toilsome and dangerous than ever, while
Black Thompson followed him everywhere and all day long with oaths and blows. Stephen's evident
superiority over the other boys was of course very much against him; for he had never been
much associated with them, as his distant home had separated him from them excepting during
the busy hours of labour. Now, when, through his own self-satisfaction and Tim's loud praises,
his accomplishments became known, it is no wonder that a storm of envy and jealousy raged round
him; for not only the boys themselves, but their fathers also, felt affronted at his wonderful
scholarship. To be sure, Tim never deserted him, and his partisanship was especially useful
on the bank, before he went down and after he came up from the pit.

CHAPTER VII.

POOR SNIP.

The middle weeks of August were come--sunny, sultry weeks; and from the brow of the hill, all
the vast plain lying westward for many miles looked golden with the corn ripening for harvest.
The oats in the little field had already been reaped; and the fruit in the garden, gathered
and sold by Martha, had brought in a few shillings, which were carefully hoarded up to buy
winter clothing. It was now the time of the yearly gathering of bilberries on the hills; and
tribes of women and children ascended to the tableland from all the villages round. It was
the pleasantest work of the year; and Martha, who had never missed the bilberry season since
she could remember, was not likely to miss it now. Even little Nan could help to pick the berries,
and she and Martha were out on the hillsides all the livelong summer day. Their dwelling on
the spot gave them a good advantage over those who lived down in Botfield; and each day, before
any of the others could reach the best bilberry-wires, they had already picked a quart of the
small purple berries, fresh and cool with the dew of the morning. Only the poor old grandfather
had to be left at home alone, with his dinner put ready for him, which he was apt to eat up
long before the proper dinner-hour came; and then he had to wait until Stephen returned from
his work, or Martha and little Nan were driven home by the August thunderstorms. Martha was
wonderfully successful this year, and gained more money by selling her bilberries than she
thought necessary to show to Stephen; though, on his part, he always brought her every penny
of his wages.

Ever since their father's funeral there had been a subject of dispute between the brother and
sister. Martha was bent upon enclosing the green dell, with its clear, cool little pond; and
to this end she spent all the time she could spare in raising a rough fence of stones and peat
round it. But Stephen would not consent to it; and neither argument, scolding, nor coaxing
could turn him. He always answered that he had promised the master that he would not trespass
on the manor; and he must stand to his word, whatever they might lose by it; though, indeed,
he saw no harm in making green fields out of the waste land. 

I've never slept so well like the first night I spent in that modest bedroom. Despite have left
open the window, because it allowed the temperature, did not suffer noise nuisance of any kind.
On the contrary, I think I rocked gently tap the steady and sound bells.

I awoke early, as is my habit, and from the bed started to admire again pleased aspect of my
balcony flower: hydrangea, with its fields of blue and pink azaleas and geraniums, with their
various shades of red and white, but what was that wondrous flower, the center of all, which
I had not noticed the day before?

I jumped out of bed, and saw with surprise that it was not a flower,
but a bird perched on the railing of the balcony. There's
master, and Mr. Thomas, and Mr. Jones the gamekeeper, been talking with thy grandfather nigh
upon an hour. There'll be a upshot some day, I know; and Jones, he said summat about leaving
a keepsake for thee.'

'What could it be, William?' asked Stephen anxiously.

'How should I know?' said the man, with some reluctance. 'Only, lad, I did hear a gun go off;
and I never heard Snip bark again, though I listened for him. Stephen, Stephen, dunna thee
go so mad like!'

But it was no use shouting after Stephen, as he ran frantically up the hill. Snip was always
basking lazily in the sunshine under the hedge of the paddock, at the very point where he could
catch the first sight of his young master, after which there was no more idleness or stillness
in him. Stephen could hardly breathe when he found that Snip was not at the usual place to
greet him; but before he reached his home he saw it--the dead body of his own poor Snip--hung
on the post of the wicket through which he had to pass. He flew to the place; he tore his own
hands with the nails that were driven through Snip's feet; and then, without a thought of his
grandfather or of his own hunger, he bore away the dead dog in his arms, and wandered far out
of sight or sound of the hateful, cruel world, into one of the most solitary plains upon the
uplands.

Any one passing by might have thought that Stephen was fast asleep in the last slanting rays
of the sun, which shone upon him there some time after the evening shadows had fallen upon
Botfield; but a frenzy of passion, too strong for any words, had felled him to the ground,
where he lay beside Snip. The gamekeeper, who had so many dogs that he did not care for any
one of them in particular, had killed this one creature that was dearer to him than anything
in the world, except little Nan, and grandfather, and Martha. And Snip was dead, without remedy;
no power on earth could bring back the departed life. Oh, if he could only punish the villain
who had shot his poor faithful dog! But he was nothing but a poor boy, very poor, and very
helpless and friendless, and people would only laugh at his trouble. All the world was against
him, and he could do nothing to revenge himself, but to hate everybody!

'Why, lad! why, Stephen! what ails thee?' said Black Thompson's voice, close behind him. 'Eh!
who's gone and shot Snip? That rascal Jones, I'll go bail! Is he quite dead, Stephen? Stand
up, lad, and let's give a look at him.'

The boy rose, and faced Black Thompson and his comrade with eyes that were bloodshot, though
he had not shed a tear, and with lips almost bitten through by his angry teeth. Both the men
handled the dog gently and carefully, but, after a moment's inspection, Thompson laid it down
again on the turf.

'It's a shame!' he cried, with an oath that sounded pleasantly in Stephen's ears; 'it was one
of the best little dogs about. I'd take my vengeance on him for this. In thy place, I couldn't
sleep till I'd done something.'

'Ay!' said Stephen, with flashing eyes; 'I know where he's keeping a covey of birds up against
game day--nineteen of them. I've seen them every day, and I could go to the place in the dark.'

'That's a brave lad!' said Black Thompson; 'he's got his father's pluck after all, as I've
always told thee, Davies, and we'll see him righted. He's got his eyes in his head, has this lad!'

'They're down in the leasowe, between the Firspinny and Ragleth Hill,' continued Stephen; 'and
they're just prime, I can tell ye. And I know, too, what he doesn't know himself. I know to
some black game, far away up the hill. He'd give his two eyes to see them, with their white
wing-feathers; and if he hadn't'--

Stephen stopped, with quivering lips, for he could not speak yet of Snip's murder.

'Never take on, my lad,' said Black Thompson, clapping him on the back; 'we'll spoil his sport
for him. Come thy ways with us; it'll be dark dusk afore we gain the spinny, and Jones is off
to the Whitehurst woods to-night. We'll have as rare sport as the lord of the manor himself.
Thee art a sharp one. I'd lay a round wager, now, thee knows where all the sheep of the hillside
fold of nights.'

'Ay, do I,' answered Stephen, walking briskly beside Black Thompson; 'I know every walk and
every fold on the hills; ay, and many of the sheep themselves. I keep my eyes wide open out
of doors, I promise ye.'

'I'll swear to that,' said Black Thompson, glad to encourage the boy in his foolish boasting.
On their way they passed near to Fern's Hollow, and Stephen heard little Nan's shrill voice
calling his name, as if she were seeking him weariedly; but when he hesitated for a moment,
his heart yearning to answer her, Black Thompson again patted him on the back, and bade him
never show the white feather, but remember poor dead Snip; at which his passion for revenge
returned, and he pressed on eagerly to the fir-coppice.

It was quite dark when they entered the path leading through the wood. No one spoke now, and
they trod cautiously, lest there should be any noise from their footsteps. The tall black fir-trees
towered above them to an unusual height; and through all the topmost branches there ran a low,
mournful sound, as if every tree was whispering about them, and lamenting over them. Even the
little brook, which in the sunshine rippled so merrily along the borders of the wood, seemed
to be sobbing like a grieved and tired child in the night-time. Strange rustlings on every
side, and sudden groanings of the withered boughs in some of the pines, made them start in
fear; and once, in a little opening among the trees, when the stars came out and looked down
upon them, Stephen would have given all he had in the world to be safe at home, with little
Nan singing hymns on his knee, or quietly asleep after the hot and busy day.

'It's lonesome enough to make a bull-dog afeared,' whispered Davies, in a frightened tone.
But before long they were out of the wood; and in the glimmer of light that lasts all night
through during the summer, Stephen saw Black Thompson unwind a net, which had been wrapped
round his body under his collier's jacket. More than half the covey of partridges were bagged;
and they had such capital luck, as the men called it, that Stephen soon entered into the daring
spirit of the adventure. It sent a thrill of excitement through him, in which poor Snip was
for the time forgotten; and when about midnight Black Thompson and Davies said 'Good-night'
to him at his cottage door, calling him a brave fellow, and giving him a fine young leveret,
with the promise that he should have his share of whatever money they received for their spoil,
he entered his dark home, where every one was slumbering peacefully, and, without a thought
of sorrow or repentance, was quickly asleep himself.

CHAPTER VIII.

STEPHEN AND THE GAMEKEEPER.

Martha's exclamation of surprise and delight at seeing the leveret was the first sound that
Stephen heard in the morning; but he preserved a sullen silence as to his absence the previous
night, and Martha was too shrewd to press him with questions. They had not been unused to such
fare during their father's lifetime; and it was settled between them that she should come down
from the bilberry-plain early in the afternoon to make a feast of the leveret by the time of
Stephen's return from the pit.

All day long Stephen found himself treated with marked distinction and favour by Black Thompson
and his comrades, to some of whom he heard him say, in a loud whisper, that 'Stephen 'ud show
himself a chip of the old block yet.' At dinner they invited him to sit within their circle,
where he laughed and talked with the best of them, and was listened to as if he were already
a man. How different to his usually hurried meal beside the horses, that worked like himself
in the dark, close passages, but did not, like him, ascend each evening to the grassy fields
and the pure air of the upper earth! Stephen had a true tenderness in his nature towards these
dumb fellow-labourers, and they loved the sound of his voice, and the kindly patting of his
hand; but somehow he felt as if they knew how he had left his faithful old Snip unburied on
the open hillside, where Black Thompson had found him in his passion the evening before. He
was not sorry for what he had done; he would avenge himself on the gamekeeper again whenever
there was an opportunity. Even now, he promised Black Thompson, when they were away from the
other colliers, to show him the haunts of the scarce black grouse, which would be so valuable
to the gamekeeper; and he enjoyed Black Thompson's applause. But there was a sore pang in his
heart, as he remembered dead Snip, unburied on the hillside.

Supper was ready when he reached home; and what a savoury smell came through the open door,
quite down to the wicket! Of course Snip was not watching for him; and little Nan also, instead
of looking out for him as usual, was waiting eagerly to be helped; for, as soon as Stephen
was seen over the brow of the hill, Martha poured her dainty stew into a large brown dish,
and she had already portioned out a plateful for the grandfather. Few words were uttered, for
Martha was hot, and rather testy; and Stephen felt a sullen weight hanging upon his spirits.
Only every now and then the old grandfather, chuckling and mumbling over the uncommon delicacy,
would call Stephen by his father's name of James, and thank him for his rare supper.

'Good evening,' said Miss Anne's voice, and as the light from the doorway was darkened, all
the party looked up quickly, and Stephen felt himself growing hot and cold by turns. 'Your
supper smells very nice, Martha; there has been some good cooking done to-day.'

'Oh, Miss Anne,' cried Martha, colouring up with excitement and fear, 'it is a young leveret
Mrs. Jones, the gamekeeper's wife, gave me for some knitting I'd done for her; she said it
'ud be a treat for grandfather. I've been cooking it all evening, ma'am, and it's very toothsome.
If you'd only just taste a mouthful, it 'ud make me ever so proud.'

'Thank you, Martha,' said Miss Anne, smiling; 'I am quite hungry with climbing the hill, and
if it is as good as the bread you gave me the other day, I shall enjoy having my supper with you.'

Stephen scarcely heard what Miss Anne said to him, while he watched Martha bustling about to
reach out a grand china plate, which was one of the great treasures of their possessions; and
he looked on silently as she chose the daintiest morsels of the stew; but when she moved the
little table nearer to the door, and laid the plate and knife and fork upon it, before Miss
Anne, he started to his feet, unable to sit still and see her partake of the food which he
had procured in such a manner.

'Don't touch it! don't taste it, Miss Anne!' he cried excitedly. 'Oh, please to come out with
me to the bent of the hill, and I'll tell you why. But don't eat any of it!'

He darted out at the door before Martha could stop him, and ran down the green path to a place
where he was out of sight and hearing of his home, waiting breathlessly for Miss Anne to overtake
him. It was some minutes before she came, and her face was overcast and troubled; but she listened
in silence, while, without concealment, but with many bitter and passionate words against the
gamekeeper, and excuses for his own conduct, he confessed to her all the occurrences of the
night before. Every moment his agitation increased under her quiet, mournful look of reproach,
until, as he came to the close, he cried out in a sorrowful but defiant tone, 'Oh, Miss Anne,
I could not bear it!'

'Do you remember,' she asked, in a low and tender voice, 'how poor Snip used to follow me down
to this very spot, and sit here till I was out of sight? I was very fond of poor old Snip,
Stephen!' Yes, her voice trembled, and tears were in her eyes. The proud bulwark which Stephen
had been raising against his grief was broken down in a moment. He sank down on the turf at
Miss Anne's feet; and, no longer checking the tears which had been burning in his eyes all
day, he wept and sobbed vehemently, until his passion had worn away.

'And now,' said Miss Anne, sitting down beside him, 'I must tell you that, though I am not
surprised, I am very, very grieved, Stephen. Did no way of escape open to you, Stephen?'

Then Stephen remembered how he had heard dear little Nan calling piteously to him as he passed
Fern's Hollow with Black Thompson; and how his heart yearned to go to her, though he had resisted
and conquered this saving impulse.

'You do not know much,' continued Miss Anne, 'but if you had followed out all you do know,
instead of poaching with Black Thompson that you might revenge yourself for Snip being killed,
you would have been praying for them that persecute you. The Bible says that not a sparrow
falls to the ground without our Father. So God knew that poor Snip was shot.'

'But why did He not hinder it?' asked Stephen, speaking low and indistinctly.

'Stephen,' said Miss Anne earnestly, 'suppose that I lived in a very grand palace, where there
were many things that you had never seen, and I wanted little Nan to come and live with me,
not as a servant, but as my dear child; would it be unkind of me to send her first to a school,
where she could learn how to read the books, and understand the pictures, and play the music
she would find in my palace? Even if the lessons were often hard, and some of her schoolfellows
were cruel and unkind to her, would it not be better for her to bear it for a little while,
until she was made ready to live with me as my own child?'

The young lady paused for a few minutes, while Stephen pictured to himself the grand palace,
and little Nan being made fit to live in it; and when at last he raised his brown eyes to hers,
bright with the pleasant thought, she went on in a quiet, reverential tone:

'Perhaps we could not understand any of the things of heaven, so our Father which is in heaven
sends us to school here; we are learning lessons all our life long. There is not a single trouble
that comes to us but it is to teach us the meaning of something we shall meet with there. We
should not be happy to hear the angels singing a song which we could not understand, because
we had missed our lessons down here.'

'Oh, Miss Anne,' cried Stephen, 'I feel as if I could bear anything when I think of that! Now,
good-night, Stephen. Go and bury poor Snip while there is daylight, in some quiet place where
you can go and think and read and play sometimes.'

Stephen returned to the hut for a spade, and then went, with a strange blending of grief and
gladness, to the place where he had left his poor dog. He chose a solitary yew tree on the
hill for the burial ground, and dug as deep a grave as he could among the far-spreading roots.
It was strange, only such things do happen now and then, that while he was working away hard
and fast, with the dead dog lying by under the trunk of the yew tree, the gamekeeper himself
passed that way. He had been in a terrible temper all day, for he had discovered the mischief
done down in the fir-coppice, and the loss of his carefully-preserved covey. The sight of Stephen
and dead Snip irritated him; though a feeling of shame crept over him as he saw how tear-stained
the boy's face was.

'Mr. Jones,' said Stephen, 'I've something to say to you.'

'Be sharp, then,' replied the gamekeeper, 'and mind what you're about. I'll not take any impudence
from a young rascal like you.'

'It's no impudence,' answered Stephen; 'only I know to some black game, and I wanted to tell
you about them.'

'Black game!' he said contemptuously. 'A likely story. There's been none these half-dozen years.'

'It's four years since,' answered Stephen; 'I remember, because grandfather and I saw them
the day mother died, when little Nan was born. I couldn't forget them or mistake them after
that. They are at the head of the Black Valley, where the quaking noise begins. I'm sure I'm
right, sir.'

'You are not making game of me?' asked Jones, laughing heartily at his own wit. 'Well, my lad,
if this is true, it will be worth something to me. Hark ye, I'm sorry about your dog, and you
shall choose any one of mine you like, if you'll promise to keep him out of mischief.'

'I couldn't have another dog in Snip's place,' replied Stephen in a choked voice; 'at any rate
not yet, thank you, sir.'

'Well,' said the gamekeeper, shouldering his gun, and walking off, 'I'll be your friend, young
Fern, when it does not hurt myself.'

CHAPTER IX. It was not long, but he held huge
altarpiece of gilded wood churriguerra style, tiled plinth and pavement marble flagstones black
and white, alternating. What most struck me were the graves of my ancestors. Embedded in both
side walls of the presbytery, complained bitterly niches covered with slabs of alabaster tracks,
recorded with long epitaphs, and over once since I started reading, I was distracted at Mass
or Rosary, trying to decipher those signs, crossed and unintelligible to me.

One night on his way to my room, it occurred to this question:

- Angus, what do the dead of the chapel at night?

And India, without hesitation, replied:

- They play chess.

I almost every night, requiring the blessing of my father, I was in the library playing chess with
Don Pepe Dávalos, Mayor of neighboring villages, was not surprised
response.

A game in which two men sat face to face for a long space time, without a word and without
moving just the odd pieces of wood between they had, and that lend themselves so admirably to
play with toy soldiers, a game and, again, I seemed especially designed
to be dead for the living, and the response of Sorrows was convincing.

-
Yes, continued the housekeeper.

Every night as you lie down to sleep, they become to play chess until it reaches the Father
to say mass. Then they return to their graves which, as it were,
their beds, and sleep during the day.

And having said the usual prayers for my parents and brothers, and another for my jerkin said,
for my horse "The Confite" fell asleep at the time.

II

Many years later, when I returned from Spain, married and with a woman of my own race, I found
the San Isidro Labrador things very different from when I left. My parents, two brothers and
Angus had gone of life, and Don Pepe Dávalos, deposed municipal sick
and old wandered through the cloisters, the chess games longing to
"His Grace the Mr. Don Alonso.

"I noticed the friendly affection of many servants had amenguado thanks certain winds blew
North fronds, and I felt from the beginning marked repulsion by the new administrator of the
Treasury, appointed by the executor of my father.

His name was Don Guadalupe Robles, and insolent appearance showed clearly that it had once been
bold and tough guerrilla chieftain.

Many feared that the Treasury had little appeal to my wife, but Agnes, used the austerities
of Spanish tower, San Isidro Labrador found much to his liking, and
she suggested us to fix our residence there.

After a few months, and approaching the owner of the land party, my wife, by dint good Madrid
suggested that the party was celebrated with special pomp. Therefore prepared clothes to distribute
to the poor flowers commissioned to adorn the house and chapel, and invited, Pontifical Mass
to sing, a certain bishop, who, since childhood, I called "Uncle Bishop", but really lacked
any relationship.

I agreed willingly, both to please Agnes, as I have found the occasion to make it look a lot
of objects, which, as a collector of antiques enthusiast, I boasted. The non-negligible flow
vestments and sacred vessels, which the Treasury had donated my ancestors, I added a large collection
of objects found some in dilapidated cities, brought others from the Peninsula. I was especially
notable rich collection engraved silver, consisted of several dozen
candlesticks, large and small, lecterns, ornamental vases and planters,
not a few torches, some chalices and goblets, and a custody I was
pleased that I attributed to Juan de Arfe and Villafañe.

But what I liked and showed I to my friends with great pride, was a game I learned in Cintra
censers. Work Portuguese full of XVIII century, will be understood of course that such sachets
were to be extravagant, in fact, measuring two feet high, and affected the unusual form of Pegasus,
but his work was so complete, that really could be in the best collection of art objects.

With
all these elements, I realized that the magnificent altarpiece, whose
intricate covered litter the main wall of the chapel with twisted
columns and pilasters, pediments interrupted whimsical brackets and
canopies sheltering niches and polychrome sculptures, would shine
the rich and if you want great set of gold and silver, like a glowing
ember, and started to make preparations with no little enthusiasm.

Arriving on the eve of the feast, I went into the chapel to arrange and vínoseme to my mind
a world of memories. Watching the funeral allegories and signs reading of the gravestones,
which worried both my childhood years, I saw again a thousand incidents
of my childhood and listened once again, the voice of loved ones,
including Angus, whom I dogmatically asserted that my dead played
chess every night ....

I ran the placement of the various ornaments
on the altar and sanctuary, where Don Guadalupe Robles went to the
chapel, under the pretext of consulting agreement does not end administration
of the estate, and gathered there to see the flow, greed reflected
in his face making direct eye while talking with me, one by another
object, whose existence is not even suspected.

Then it was more my disgust for this man, and I certainly believe that this attempt to rob
me, that throughout the night I could not dismiss this thought in my mind, and left the bed
very early, when still asleep silent masters and servants.

With the first light of dawn, I entered the chapel. At first glance, most objects remained in
the places where you placed the day before, but what Judge yourself would be my amazement, seeing
that a large number of candlesticks, vases and other lay scattered on the ground in utter chaos!
Nothing remained standing, cornered in an angle below choir, four
objects.

I approached, and a shiver ran through my body. The dead had played a game of chess! Yes, there
in the corner, on the tile white, was a brazier, and in front of him, except a row of tables,
and occupying their respective boxes, a vase, a small spotlight and one of the perfumers, this
is the closest to the wall. Yes these three parts - the bishop, pawn and knight, - had been mated
to the brazier or the King!

After some time, I could control myself, and I replied with a trembling hand on the different sites
objects, so that no more than I realized the event.

The party was held properly, and both the Bishop and the friends who visited our invitation, there
were languages ​​of the beauty and richness of my collection.

But I paid little attention to such compliments, seized my mind with the enigma and the suspicions
harbored against Don Guadalupe Robles. These increased when I surprised him at dusk, in the
shadows the corridor, talking quietly with Joaquin, his fellow man abutment and confidence. I
pretended not seeing them, and I passed, but decided to pack my antiques and forwarding to Mexico
as soon as possible, as he found me the opportunity to get rid of the Administrator.

I do not know how long after having been asleep, broke the silence
of the night such a scream of terror, which continues and will continue
ringing in my ears as I live.

The heard my wife and woke up scared, I heard the servants all, and in a few moments, cloisters
were populated by shadows, voices of fear inquired what was happening.

I took a flashlight and followed by the most resolute, I directed
my steps towards the site fearful whence the cry seemed to proceed.

The vestry door was open and I realized my suspicions were confirmed. Entered. Or in the sacristy,
or in the chapel had more light than the dim light shining through windows and domes, and
at first nothing could distinction, but little, the flickering light of the lantern showed us
that all objects silver, absolutely all, were huddled beneath the choir, fencing, imprisoning in
the corner, Don Guadalupe Robles, who, with his body leaning back, and recoiling, extending
both arms against the walls of that corner of the chapel. His eyes were their orbits, and all
his face was an image of terror. I called him by name, looked at me his answer was staring and
laughing.

KING'S HAT TIBOTU

STORY FOR CHILDREN.

                

Julio Torres

The King of Tibotú had (naturally) three children. The elder was called Chapachapa, the second
Chopochopo, and less Chipichipi.

The king was very rich, had seventeen umbrellas all colors, a green cap and yellow-tail, very funny,
and a top hat, so tall that bordered as monumental. The queen, pundits, and was wearing blue
socks polyglot: when something fell very much in favor, spoke in Chinese, and when angry, screaming in Catalan.

The
kingdom was composed, in addition to the populous city of Tibotú,
two islands.

Was harvested in a lots of coffee and dairy cattle were numerous, in the other cocoa producing
and had very good bakers and confectioners.

The islands were commonly known by 'La-isla-de-café au lait " and "La-isla-de-chocolate-with-buns."

Tibotú
royal family lived happily for many years, but one night the king ate at dinner, a whole roasted
piglet, and died a few hours, surrounded by his wife and children.

After nine minutes, nine seconds, according to the Ceremonial of that
Court, wait before opening the testament of the deceased monarch,
was found last provision of the autocrat was that his populous city
of Tibotú happen to his beloved wife, and Islanders' Café au lait
'and' Chocolate-to-buns "to his two sons, and Chopochopo Chapachapa,
respectively.

As Chipichipi, his father legábale hat.

Imagine the joy of the spouse and grown children, Benjamin and anger of the house. What he wanted
an old hat, dirty and so little artistic?

Prince invaded the mind of such fury, that dropped to the ground and the despised garment propinóle a
strong kick. But in doing so, he felt a sharp pain in the foot, as if struck against a stone.
With still greater fury, picked up his hat and started cutting it
with great courage, but, behold, he found, between the liner and the
cup, something hard, rock, indeed larger than a hen's egg, although
not as much as an ostrich, it was red as blood of a pigeon and the
sun shone in a surprising way.

It was nothing less than a ruby.

I must not refer to the feeling that this finding resulted in the entire world. Suffice it
to say that all the crowned heads, and many who were not, disputed the possession of so magnificent
gem. Most were interested in obtaining the President of the English Republic, Grand Duke of
Texcoco and Mr. Elihu P Goggles, Paradise, Texas. Needless to say, this seems last and was famous
billionaire who bought the precious stone, paying for it ten seven
million dollars in gold, and seventeen in "Liberty Bonds" in the seventeenth
issue, and calling himself, thereafter, "The Ruby King ', or' The
King's Ruby."

Of course, Chipichipi invested their money and gave great life. He bought a car "Ford", a police
dog, and a Dictionary of the Academy.

Instead his brothers were ruined: coffee was lost, and dairy cattle died, the cocoa price fell and
bakers and bakers went on strike perpetual.

And whenever they talked about the top hat of her late husband, the Queen exclaimed pundits, Portuguese:

"In
all things, insignificant they may seem, there is some value for those who can find it."

THE REPORTAZGO

Reporters understand that you have responsibilities to their readers
and therefore Always walk for news, but as I hate repetition, I want
the diary you represent, being the most important in the country,
is my sole spokesman this issue.

Within ten minutes to get my wife in the meantime, therefore, I beg you listen carefully and
write to my dictation. I will give all the details of the case that you see, is something very simple.

I'll
start by saying that I had a few years old when my father died, legándome a large fortune. But
as the entertainment never entered into my calculations, I decided to pursue a career, and chose
the career of Surgeon. Here, among us, I confess that I have always considered medicine as the
rifle of Ambrose, but surgery, - ah! that's another thing.

Through of radical surgery can cure all diseases of mankind, and not far the day that even death can
be prevented by it.

My teachers were amazed by the extraordinary skill I gained from the beginning: scalpel in my hands was
like a brush in an artist. Each cut mine was wonderful precision and art, yes sir, art. I won
the first prize at the Academy, and when I issued the title of Surgeon, it was noted that it had never
achieved ratings higher. The first major operation to execute, after it was received, was
the amputation of both hands of the famous pianist Gerosltein.

Of course it was absolutely unnecessary for this gentleman lost both hands, but since I did not
like the way to play Beethoven, I decided to cut the root evil, and forgive this slight plaisanterie.

At
that time I met Matilde. I do not remember if it was at a dance at the palace of Princess
Dorodinski, or if it was in horse racing. But I have in mind that from the first time I saw her,
I realized that was the most beautiful woman he has been in the world, and So I had to be my wife.
I was then too romantic, does not call care to know that my cut was made in light of the moon.
The Conservatory Orchestra playing selected music every night under
her window, and I even afford a poet of fame for him to write madrigals,
which I signed.

To make a long this story, I will say that while carrying out preparations our wedding, Matilda
did nothing but mourn, mourn ... Crying with love for me, as I said his mother ... Matilda,
I said, is and will be the most beautiful woman on earth. But, my friend While the saying that
there is no complete happiness in this world. Shortly after our marriage, a terrible suspicion began
to martyr himself. Matilde was from the outset a model wife, but the passionate kisses that I
gave were never matched, never rested his gaze on me with affection, and all the small sacrifices
that she did not even were noticed, much less grateful ... At last, it was a bitter day that
the suspicion became a certainty. With the pretext of feeling tired and put my head on his chest,
I the terrible discovery that Matilde, the most beautiful woman on
earth, had no heart.

Long stood stunned, but suddenly a ray of light illuminated my mind.

Almost every day I went to the amphitheater and witnessed Academy
courses.

Remembered On the morning of that day, had gathered in the street the corpse of a young low people
who had been hit by a tram. Have the same age, more or less, Matilde.

It was ten o'clock at night when I went to the concierge and asked the Academy keys the arena
to pick up instruments that I had left forgotten. The concierge me the crossed then and even
offered to accompany me, but I bestowed the trouble, and entered alone in the room. Fifteen
minutes later, left there holding in his hand a pack showed the concierge,
to see that it was indeed my property, and the fund the pocket of
my coat a tiny bundle wrapped in gauze.

That naturally did not see the good man.

Matilda was already in bed, when I went to say goodnight. I noticed that shook a little to see me
come into her bedroom, but I reassured her with a smile, and went a chaste kiss her forehead.
All I had skillfully prepared, and was half a second question apply chloroform and numb. Once
this is achieved, I continued my work with all calm. In fact, the operation was very simple: it
is reduced to open the chest and placed in the corresponding site on her heart. And here I must
record an extraordinary thing.

I had just begun operation, when they appeared on the sheets two or three roses red, which
were multiplying, to cover nearly the whole bed.

The success of
the operation, not expected longer satisfy the contrary, with the
highest taste the world, I sat next to my wife waiting for him to
wake up from sleep. 'God sees both of us; and He knows you have no right to the place,
and I have. I believe some day we'll go back again, though you have pulled the old house down
to the ground. I don't want to make God angry with me. But the Bible says He seeth in secret,
and He will reward us openly.'

The master shrank and turned pale before the keen, composed gaze of the boy and his manly bearing;
but Stephen's heart began to fail him, and, with trembling limbs and eyes that could scarcely
see, he made his way out of the room, and out of the house, down to the end of the shrubbery.
There he could bear up no longer, and he sat down under the laurels, shivering with a feeling
of despair. The worst was come upon him now, and he saw no helper.

'My poor boy,' said Miss Anne's gentle voice, and he felt her hand laid softly on his shoulder.
'My poor Stephen, I have heard all, and I know how bitterly hard it is to bear.'

Stephen answered her only with a low, half-suppressed groan; and then he sat speechless and
motionless, as if his despair had completely paralyzed him.

'Listen, Stephen,' she continued, with energy: 'you told me once that the clergyman at Danesford
has some paper belonging to you, about the cottage. You must go to him, and tell him frankly
your whole story. I do not believe that what my uncle has done would stand in law, and I myself,
if it be necessary, would testify that your grandfather could not understand such a transaction.
But perhaps it could be settled without going to law, if the clergyman at Danesford would take
it in hand; for my uncle is very wishful to keep a good name in the country. But if not, Stephen
Fern, I promise you faithfully that should Fern's Hollow ever come into my possession, and
I be my uncle's only relative, I will restore it to you as your rightful inheritance.'

She spoke so gravely, yet cheeringly, that a bright hope beamed into Stephen's mind; and when
Miss Anne held out her hand to him, as a pledge of her promise, she felt a warm tear fall upon
it. He rose up from the ground now, and stood out into the moonlight before her, looking up
into her pale face.

'Stephen,' she said, more solemnly than before, 'do you find it possible to endure this injury
and temptation?'

'I've been praying for the master,' answered Stephen; but there was a tone of bitterness in
his voice, and his face grew gloomy again.

'He is a very miserable man,' said Miss Anne, sighing; 'I often hear him walking up and down
his room, and crying aloud in the night-time for God to have mercy upon him; but he is a slave
to the love of riches. Years ago he might have broken through his chain, but he hugged it closely,
and now it presses upon him very hardly. All his love has been given to money, till he cannot
feel any love to God; and he knows that in a few years he must leave all he loves for ever,
and go into eternity without it. He will have no rest to-night because of the injury he has
done you. He is a very wretched man, Stephen.'

'I wouldn't change with him for all his money,' said Stephen pityingly.

'Stephen,' continued Miss Anne, 'you say you pray for my uncle, and I believe you do; but do
you never feel a kind of spite and hatred against him in your very prayers? Have you never
seemed to enjoy telling our Father how very evil he is?'

'Yes,' said the boy, hanging down his head, and wondering how Miss Anne could possibly know that.

'Ah, Stephen,' she continued, 'God requires of us something more than such prayers. He bids
us really and truly to love our enemies--love which He only can know of, because it is He who
seeth in secret and into the inmost secrets of our hearts. I may hear you pray for your enemies,
and see you try to do them good; but He alone can tell whether of a truth you love them.'

'I cannot love them as I love you and little Nan,' replied Stephen.

'Not with the same kind of love,' said Miss Anne; 'in us there is something for your love to
take hold of and feed upon. "But if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not
even the publicans the same?" Your affection for us is the kind that sinners can feel; it is
of this earth, and is earthly. But to love our enemies is heavenly; it is Christ-like, for
He died for us while we were yet sinners. Will you try to do more than pray for my uncle and
Black Thompson? Will you try to love them. Will you try for Christ's sake?'

'Oh, Miss Anne, how can I?' he asked.

'It may not be all at once,' she answered tenderly; 'but if you ask God to help you, His Holy
Spirit will work within you. Only set this before you as your aim, and resist every other feeling
that will creep in; remembering that the Lord Jesus Himself, who died for us, said to us, "Love
your enemies." He can feel for you, for "He was tempted in all points as we are."'

As she spoke the last words, they heard the master's voice calling loudly for Miss Anne, and
Stephen watched her run swiftly up the shrubbery and disappear through the door. There was
a great bolting and locking and barring to be heard within, for it was rumoured that Mr. Wyley
kept large sums of money in his house, and no place in the whole country-side was more securely
fastened up by day or night. But Stephen thought of him pacing up and down his room through
the sleepless night, praying God to have mercy upon him, yet not willing to give up his sin;
and as he turned away to the poor little cabin on the cinder-hill, there was more pity than
revenge in the boy's heart.

CHAPTER XI.

STEPHEN AND THE RECTOR.

The report of the expulsion of the family from Fern's Hollow spread through Botfield before
morning; and Stephen found an eager cluster of men, as well as boys and girls, awaiting his
appearance on the pit-bank. There was the steady step and glance of a man about him when he
came--a grave, reserved air, which had an effect upon even the rough colliers. Black Thompson
came forward to shake hands with him, and his example was followed by many of the others, with
hearty expressions of sympathy and attempts at consolation.

'It'll be put right some day,' said Stephen; and that was all they could provoke him to utter.
He went down to his work; and, though now and then the recollection thrilled through him that
there was no pleasant Fern's Hollow for him to return to in the evening, none of his comrades
could betray him into any expression of resentment against his oppressor.

In the meantime Miss Anne did not forget to visit the cabin, and cheer, as well as she could,
the trouble of poor Martha, whose good and proud housewifery had kept Fern's Hollow cleaner
and tidier than any of the cottages at Botfield. It was no easy matter to rouse Martha to take
any interest in the miserable cabin where the household furniture had been hastily heaped in
the night before; but when her heart warmed to the work, in which Miss Anne was taking an active
part, she began to feel something like pleasure in making the new home like the old one, as
far as the interior went. Out of doors, no improvement could be made until soil could be carried
up the barren and steep bank, to make a little plot of garden ground. But within, the work
went on so heartily that, when Stephen returned from the pit, half an hour earlier than usual,--for
he had no long walk of two miles now,--he found his grandfather settled in the chimney corner,
apparently unconscious of any removal, while both Martha and little Nan seemed in some measure
reconciled to their change of dwelling. Moreover, Miss Anne was waiting to greet him kindly.

'Stephen,' she said, 'Martha has found the three notes in your grandfather's pocket all safe.
You had better take them with you to the clergyman at Danesford, and do what he advises you
with them. And now you are come to live at Botfield, you can manage to go to church every Sunday;
even little Nan can go; and there is a night-school at Longville, where you can learn to write
as well as read. It will not be all loss, my boy.'

The opportunity for going to Danesford was not long in coming, for Black Thompson and Cole,
who were the chief colliers in the pit, chose to take a 'play-day' with the rest of their comrades;
and the boys and girls employed at the works were obliged to play also, though it involved
the forfeiture of their day's wages--always a serious loss to Stephen. This time, however,
he heard the news gladly; and, carefully securing the three notes by pinning them inside his
pocket, he set out for his ten miles walk across the tableland to the other side of the mountains,
where Danesford lay. His nearest way led straight by Fern's Hollow, and he saw that already
upon the old site the foundation was laid for a new house containing three rooms. In everything
else the aspect of the place remained unchanged; there still hung the creaking wicket, where
little Nan had been wont to look for his coming home, until she could run with outstretched
arms to meet him. The beehives stood yet beneath the hedge, and the bees were flying to and
fro, seeking out the few flowers of the autumn upon the hillside. The fern upon the uplands,
just behind the hollow, was beginning to die, and its rich red-brown hue showed that it was
ready to be cut and carried away for fodder; but a squatter from some other hill-hut had trespassed
upon Stephen's old domain. Except this one man, the whole tableland was deserted; and so silent
was it that the rustle of his own feet through the fading ferns sounded like other footsteps
following him closely. The sheep were not yet driven down into the valleys, and they and the
wild ponies stood and stared boldly at the solitary boy, without fleeing from his path, as
if they had long since forgotten how the bilberry gatherers had delighted in frightening them.
Stephen was too grave and manlike to startle them into memory of it, and he plodded on mile
after mile with the three notes in his pocket and his hand closed upon them, pondering deeply
with what words he should speak to the unknown clergyman at Danesford.

When he reached Danesford, he found it a very quiet, sleepy little village, with a gleaming
river flowing through it placidly, and such respectable houses and small clean cottages as
put to shame the dwellings at Botfield. So early was it yet, that the village children were
only just going to school; and the biggest boy turned back with Stephen to the gate of the
Rectory. Stephen had never seen so large and grand a mansion, standing far back from the road,
in a park, through which ran a carriage drive up to a magnificent portico. He stole shyly along
a narrow side path to the back door, and even there was afraid of knocking; but when his low
single rap was answered by a good-tempered-looking girl, not much older than Martha, his courage
revived, and he asked, in a straightforward and steady manner, if he could see the parson.
At which the servant laughed a little, and, after inquiring his name, said she would see if
Mr. Lockwood could spare time to speak to him.

Before long the girl returned, and led Stephen through many winding and twisting passages,
more puzzling than the roads in the pit, to a large, grand room, with windows down to the ground,
and looking out upon a beautiful flower-garden. It was like the palace Miss Anne had spoken
of, for he could not understand half the things that were in the room; only he saw a fire burning
in a low grate, the bars of which shone like silver, and upon the carpeted hearth beside it
was a sofa, where a young lady was lying, and near to it was a breakfast-table, at which an
elderly gentleman was seated alone. He was a very keen, shrewd-looking man, and very pleasant
to look at when he smiled; and he smiled upon Stephen, as he stood awe-struck and speechless
at his own daring in coming to speak to such a gentleman, and in such a place as this.

'So you are Stephen Fern, of Fern's Hollow,' said Mr. Lockwood; 'I remember christening you,
and giving you my own name, thirteen or fourteen years since, isn't it? Your mother had been
my faithful servant for several years; and she brought you all across the hills to Danesford
to be christened. Is she well--my good Sarah Moore?'

'Mother died four years ago, sir,' murmured Stephen, unable to say any more.

'Poor boy!' said the young lady on the sofa. 'Father, is there anything we can do for him?'

'That is what I am going to hear, my child,' replied Mr. Lockwood. 'Stephen has not come over
the hills without some errand. Now, my boy, speak out plainly and boldly, and let me hear what
has brought you to your mother's old master.'

Thus encouraged, Stephen, with the utmost simplicity and frankness, though with fewer words
than Martha would have put into the narrative, told Mr. Lockwood the whole history of his life;
to which the clergyman listened with ever-increasing interest, as he noticed how the boy was
telling all the truth, and nothing but the truth, even to his joining Black Thompson in poaching.
When he had finished, Mr. Lockwood went to a large cabinet in the room, and, bringing out a
bundle of old yellow documents, soon found among them the paper James Fern had spoken of on
his death-bed. It was written by the clergyman living in Longville at the time of old Martha
Fern's death, to certify that she had settled, and maintained her settlement on the hillside,
without paying rent, or having her fences destroyed, for upwards of twenty years, and that
the land was her own by the usages of the common.

'I don't know what use it will be,' said Mr. Lockwood, 'but I will take legal advice upon it;
that is, I will tell my lawyer all about it, and see what we had best do. You may leave the
case in my hands, Stephen. But to-morrow morning we start for the south of France, where my
daughter must live all the winter for the benefit of the warm climate; and I must go with her,
for she is my only treasure now. Can you live in your cabin till we come home? Will you trust
yourself to me, Stephen? I will not see a son of my old servant wronged.'

'Please, sir,' said Stephen, 'the cabin is good enough for us, and we are nearer church and
the night-school; only I didn't like to break my word to father, besides losing the old home:
we can stay all winter well. I'll trust you, sir; but my work is dangersome, and please God
I should get killed, will you do the same for Martha and little Nan?'

'Ay!' answered Mr. Lockwood, coughing down his emotion at the young boy's forethought and care
for his sisters. 'If it pleases God, my boy, you will live to make a right good, true-hearted
Christian man; but if He should take you home before me, I'll befriend your sisters as long
as I live. I like your Miss Anne, Stephen; but your master is a terrible rascal, I fear.'

'Yes, sir,' said Stephen quietly.

'You don't say much about him, however,' replied Mr. Lockwood, smiling at his few words.

'Please, sir, I am trying to love my enemies,' he answered, with a feeling of shyness; 'if
I was to call him a rascal, or any other bad word, it 'ud throw me back like, and it's very
hard work anyhow. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing." You have taught an
old parson a lesson, my boy. You had better leave your money with me until my lawyer gives
us his opinion. Now go home in peace, and serve your master faithfully; but if you should need
a friend before I return, come here and ask for the clergyman who is going to take my duty.
I will tell him about you, and he will help you until I come home.'

That afternoon Stephen retraced his lonely path across the hills in great gladness of heart;
and when he came to Fern's Hollow, he leaped lightly down the bank against which the old stove-pipe
had been reared as a chimney, and stood again on the site of the old hearth, in the midst of
the new walls of red bricks that were being built up. How the master could remove the new house
and restore the old hut was a question of some perplexity to him; but his confidence in the
parson at Danesford was so perfect, that he did not doubt for a moment that he could call Fern's
Hollow his own again next spring.

CHAPTER XII.

VISIT OF BLACK BESS.

Everybody at Botfield was astonished at the change in Stephen's manner; so cheerful was he,
and light-hearted, as if his brief manhood had passed away, with its burden of cares and anxieties,
and his boyish freedom and gladsomeness had come back again. The secret cause remained undiscovered;
for Martha, fluent in tongue as she was, had enough discretion to keep her own counsel, and
seal up her lips as close as wax, when it was necessary. The people puzzled themselves in vain;
and Black Thompson left off hinting at revenge to Stephen. Even the master, when the boy passed
him with a respectful bow, in which there was nothing of resentment or sullenness, wondered
how he could so soon forget the great injury he had suffered. Mr. Wyley would have been better
satisfied if the whole family could have been driven out of the neighbourhood; but there was
no knowing what ugly rumours and inquiries might be set afloat, if the boy went telling his
tale to nobody knows whom.

Upon the whole, Martha did not very much regret her change of dwelling, though she made a great
virtue of her patience in submitting quietly to it. To be sure, the cinder-hill was unsightly,
and the cabin blackened with smoke; and it was necessary to lock little Nan and grandfather
safely within the house whenever she went out, lest they should get to the mouth of the open
shaft, where Stephen often amused the child by throwing stones down it, and listening to their
rebound against the sides. But still Martha had near neighbours; and until now she had hardly
even tasted the luxury of a thorough gossip, which she could enjoy in any one of the cottages
throughout Botfield. Moreover, she could get work for herself on three days in the week, to
help a washerwoman, who gave her ninepence a day, besides letting little Nan go with her, and
have, as she said, 'the run of her teeth.' She had her admirers, too--young collier lads, who
told her truly enough she was the cleanest, neatest, tidiest lass in all Botfield. So Martha
Fern regarded their residence on the cinder-hill with more complacency than could have been
expected. The only circumstance which in her secret heart she considered a serious drawback
was her very near neighbourhood to Miss Anne.

'Stephen,' said Martha one Saturday night, after their work was done, 'I've been thinking how
it's only thee that's trying to keep the commandments. I'm not such a scholar as thee; but
I've heard thy chapter read till it's in my head, as well as if I could read it off book myself.
So I'm thinking I ought to love my enemies as well as thee; and I've asked Black Bess to come
and have a cup of tea with us to-morrow.'

'Black Bess!' exclaimed Stephen, with a feeling of some displeasure.

'Ah,' said Martha, 'she's always calling me--a shame to be heard. But I've quite forgiven her;
and to-morrow I'll let her see I can make pikelets as well as her mother; and we'll have out
the three china cups; only grandfather and little Nan must have common ones. I thought I'd
better tell thee; and then thee'lt make haste home from church in the afternoon.'

'Black Bess isn't a good friend for thee,' answered Stephen, who was better acquainted with
the pit-girl's character than was Martha, and felt troubled at the idea of any companionship
between them.

'But we are to love our enemies,' persisted Martha, 'and do good to them that hate us. At any
rate I asked her, and she said she'd come.'

'I don't think it means we are to ask our enemies to tea,' said Stephen, in perplexity. 'If
she was badly off, like, and in want of a meal's meat, it 'ud be another thing; I'd do it gladly.
And on a Sunday too! Oh, Martha, it doesn't seem right.'

'Oh, nothing's right that I do!' replied Martha pettishly; 'thee'rt afraid I'll get as good
as thee, and then thee cannot crow over me. But I'll not spend a farthing of thy money, depend
upon it. I'm not without some shillings of my own, I reckon. Thee should let me love my enemies
as well as thee, I think; but thee'lt want to go up to heaven alone next.'

Stephen said no more, though Martha continued talking peevishly about Black Bess. She was not
at all satisfied in her own mind that she was doing right; but Bess had met her at a neighbour's
house, where she was boasting of her skill in making pikelets, and she had been drawn out by
her sneers and mocking to give her a kind of challenge to come and taste them. She wanted now
to make herself and Stephen believe that she was doing it out of love and forgiveness towards
poor Bess; but she could not succeed in the deception. All the Sunday morning she was bustling
about, and sadly chafing the grandfather by making him move hither and thither out of the way.
It was quite a new experience to have any one coming to tea; and all her hospitable and housekeeping
feelings were greatly excited by the approaching event.

When Stephen, with tired little Nan riding on his shoulder, returned from church in the afternoon,
they found Bess had arrived, and was sitting in the warmest corner, close to a very large and
blazing fire, which filled the cabin with light and heat. Bess had dressed herself up in her
best attire, in a bright red stuff gown, and with yellow ribbons tied in her hair, which had
been brought to a degree of smoothness wonderful to Stephen, who saw her daily on the pit-bank.
She had washed her face and hands with so much care as to leave broad stripes of grime round
her neck and wrists, partly concealed by a necklace and bracelets of glass beads; and her green
apron was marvellously braided in a large pattern. Martha, in her clean print dress, and white
handkerchief pinned round her throat, was a pleasant contrast to the tawdry girl, who looked
wildly at Stephen as he entered, as if she scarcely knew what to do.

'Good evening, Bess,' he said, as pleasantly as he could. 'Martha told me thee was coming to
eat some pikelets with her, so I asked Tim to come too; and after tea we'll have some rare
singing. I often hear thee on the bank, Bess, and thee has a good voice.'

Bess coloured with pleasure, and evidently tried her best to be amiable and well-mannered,
sitting up nearer and nearer to the fire until her face shone as red as her dress with the
heat. Martha moved triumphantly about the house, setting the tea-table, upon which she placed
the three china cups, with a gratified glance at the undisguised admiration of Bess; though
three common ones had to be laid beside them, for, as Tim was coming, Stephen must fare like
grandfather and little Nan. As soon as Tim arrived, she was very busy beating up the batter
for the pikelets, and then baking them over the fire; and very soon the little party were sitting
down to their feast--Bess declaring politely, between each piece pressed upon her by Martha,
that she had never tasted such pikelets, never!

At last, when tea was quite finished, and the table carefully lifted back to a safe corner
at the foot of the bed, though Martha prudently replaced the china cups in the cupboard, Tim
and Stephen drew up their stools to the front of the fire, and a significant glance passed
between them.

'Now then, Stevie,' said Tim, 'thee learn me the new hymn Miss Anne sings with us; and let's
teach Bess to sing too.'

Bess looked round uneasily, as if she found herself caught in a trap; but, as Tim burst off
loudly into a hymn tune, in which Stephen joined at the top of his voice, she had no time to
make any objection. Martha and the old grandfather, who had been a capital singer in his day,
began to help; and little Nan mingled her sweet, clear, childish notes with their stronger
tones. It was a long hymn, and, before it was finished, Bess found herself shyly humming away
to the tune, almost as if it had been the chorus of one of the pit-bank songs. They sang more
and more, until she joined in boldly, and whispered to Martha that she wished she knew the
words, so as to sing with them. But the crowning pleasure of the evening was when little Nan,
sitting on Stephen's knee, with his fingers stroking her curly hair, sang by herself a new
hymn for little children, which Miss Anne had been teaching her. She could not say the words
very plainly, but her voice was sweet, and she looked so lovely with her tiny hands softly
folded, and her eyes lifted up steadily to Stephen's face, that at last Black Bess burst out
into a loud and long fit of crying, and wept so bitterly that none of them could comfort her,
until the little child herself, who had been afraid of her before, climbed upon her lap and
laid her arms round her neck. She looked up then, and wiped the tears from her face with the
corner of her fine apron.

'I had a sister once, just like little Nan,' she said, with a sob, 'and she minded me of her.
Miss Anne told me she was singing somewhere among the angels, and I thought she'd look like
little Nan. But I'm afraid I shall never go where she is; I'm so bad.'

'We'll teach thee how to be good,' answered Martha. 'Thee come to me, Bess, and I'll teach
thee the hymns, and the singing, and how to make pikelets, and keep the house clean on a week-day.
I'm going to love my enemies, and do good to them that hate me; so don't thee be shy-like.
We'll be friends like Stephen and Tim; and weren't they enemies afore Stephen learned to read?'

That night, as Stephen lay down to sleep, he said to himself, 'I'm glad Black Bess came to
eat pikelets with Martha. My chapter says, "Whosoever shall do the commandments, and teach
them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven." Perhaps Martha and me will
be called great in heaven, if we teach Bess how to do God's commandments.'

CHAPTER XIII.

THE OLD SHAFT.

Black Bess began to visit the cinder-hill cabin very often. But there was a fatal mistake,
which poor Stephen, in his simplicity and single-heartedness, was a long time in discovering.
Martha herself had not truly set out on the path of obedience to God's commandments; and it
was not possible that she could teach Bess how to keep them. A Christian cannot be like a finger-post,
which only points the way to a place, but never goes there itself. She could teach Bess the
words of the hymn, and the tunes they were sung to; but she could tell her nothing of the feeling
of praise and love to the Saviour with which Stephen sang them, and out of which all true obedience
must flow. With her lips she could say, 'Blessed are the poor in spirit,' and 'Blessed are
the meek,' and 'Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness;' but she cared
for none of these things, and felt none of their blessedness in her own soul; and Bess very
quickly found out that she would far rather talk about other matters. And because our hearts,
which are foolish, and deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked, soon grow weary
of good, but are ever ready to delight in evil, it came to pass that, instead of Martha teaching
poor ignorant Bess how to do God's will, Bess was leading her into all sorts of folly and wickedness.

It would be no very easy task to describe how unhappy Stephen was when, from day to day, he
saw Martha's pleasant sisterly ways change into a rude and careless harshness, and her thrifty,
cleanly habits give place to the dirty extravagance of the collier-folk at Botfield. But who
could tell how he suffered in his warm, tender-hearted nature, when he came home at night,
and found the poor old grandfather neglected, and left desolate in his blindness; and little
Nan herself severely punished by Martha's unkindness and quick temper? Not that Martha became
bad suddenly, or was always unkind and neglectful; there were times when she was her old self
again, when she would listen patiently enough to Stephen's remonstrances and Miss Anne's gentle
teaching; but yet Stephen could never feel sure, when he was at his dismal toil underground,
that all things were going on right in his home overhead. Often and often, as he looked up
to Fern's Hollow, where the new red-brick house was now to be seen plainly, like a city set
on a hill, he longed to be back again, and counted the months and weeks until the spring should
bring home the good clergyman to Danesford.

One day, during the time allowed to the pit-girls for eating their dinner, Bess came running
over the cinderhills in breathless haste to the old cabin. The entire building was engulfed in the deepest silence because
all the servants had retired to rest, and could only hear the strumming of pen on paper. Long
was the letter written by Prince, and took a long time read and make some corrections. At last,
carefully folded it, and after having stuck in a large envelope, directed to a person of vulgar
name, resident the Republic of Panuco. He was about to seal and seal, when he drew on his face
expression of surprise and fear. The cabinet was adjacent to the study had been the Cardinal
and Prince to raise the head for seal, noted that under the connecting door to that room, they
saw a bright streak of light.

Don Fabrizio, after a few moments of shock, managed to control herself and to smile, and arose from
his seat to go to turn off the light, which would have left a servant inadvertently switched in
the study. Resolutely opened the door ... and his blood froze! Sitting on the couch with his
tobacco in his right hand open and fingers of the left in addition to taking a powder, he found
himself the hero figure of the Cardinal of Portinaris.

- I did not expect to see you again, "he said slowly. I thought you had died, the nephew.

Dam more terror, Don Fabrizio fled, calling aloud to the steward and
other servants; but nobody came to his aid, and toured the galleries
shouting that echoed in the vaults of the stately mansion.

- Antonio,
Bernardo, July, Gilberto! shouted, but nobody wanted to answer, and
true fear down, we can say he shot, the stairs and ran to call the
concierge.

Big hits gave at her door with both hands, but no one heard their desperate voices of terror.

He
approached the entrance of the palace and tried to open the bronze door that closed, but try as
he did, he could not get moving an inch, and finally, in desperation,
conceived the idea of ​​going out through the bars, because I wanted
to leave that all costs home.

 I'm coming my rounds pretty regular, and you can put up a shilling or two agen
I come, without letting on to father. But maybe you're married, my dear?'

'No,' she answered, blushing.

'It's not far off, I'll be bound,' he continued, 'and with a shawl like this, now, you'd look
like a full-blown rose. Come, I'll not be hard upon you, as it's the first time you've dealt
with me. That shawl's worth ten shillings if it's worth a farthing, and I'll let you have it
for seven shillings and sixpence; half a crown down, and a shilling a fortnight till it's paid up.'

Andrew threw the shawl over her shoulders, and turned her round to the envying view of the
assembled girls, who were not allowed to touch any of his goods with their soiled hands. Martha
softly stroked the bright blue border, and felt its texture between her fingers; while she
deliberated within herself whether she could not buy it from the fund procured by the bilberry
picking in the autumn. As Stephen had never known the full amount, she could withdraw the half-crown
without his knowledge, and the sixpence a week she could save out of her own earnings. In ten
minutes, while Andrew was bargaining with some of the others, she came to the conclusion that
she could not possibly do any longer without a new shawl; so, telling the packman that she
would be back again directly, she ran as swiftly as she could over the cinder-hill homewards.

In her hurry to accompany Bess to the lane, she had left her cabin door unfastened, never thinking
of the danger of the open pit to her blind grandfather and the child. Little Nan had been wearying
all morning for a run in the wintry sunshine, out of the close steam of washing in the small
hut; but Martha had not dared to let her run about alone, as she had been used to do at Fern's
Hollow, in their safe garden. After Martha and Black Bess had left her, the child stood looking
wistfully through the open door for some time; but at last she ventured over the door-sill,
and her tiny feet painfully climbed the frozen bank behind the house, whence she could see
the group of girls in the lane below. Perhaps she would have found her way down to them, but
Martha had been cross with her all the morning, and the child's little spirit was frightened
with her scolding. She turned back to the cabin, sobbing, for the north wind blew coldly upon
her; and then she must have caught sight of the shaft, where Stephen had been throwing stones
down for her the night before, without a thought of the little one trying to pursue the dangerous
game alone. As Martha came over the cinder-hill, her eyes fell upon little Nan, rosy, laughing,
screaming with delight as her tiny hands lifted a large stone high above her curly head, while
she bent over the unguarded margin of the pit. But before Martha could move in her agony of
terror, the heavy stone dropped from her small fingers, and Nan, little Nan, with her rosy,
laughing face, had fallen after it.

Martha never forgot that moment. As if with a sudden awaking of memory, there flashed across
her mind all the child's simple, winning ways. She seemed to see her dying mother again, laying
the helpless baby in her arms, and bidding her to be a mother to it. She heard her father's
last charge to take care of little Nan, when he also was passing away. Her own wicked carelessness
and neglect, Stephen's terrible sorrow if little Nan should be dead, all the woeful consequences
of her fault, were stamped upon her heart with a sudden and very bitter stroke. Those who were
watching her from the lane saw her stand as if transfixed for a moment; and then a piercing
scream, which made every one within hearing start with terror, rang through the frosty air,
as Martha sprang forward to the mouth of the old pit, and, peering down its dark and narrow
depths, could just discern a little white figure lying motionless at the bottom of the shaft.

CHAPTER XIV.

A BROTHER'S GRIEF.

In a very short time all the people at work on the surface of the mine knew that Stephen Fern's
little sister was dead--lying dead in the very pit where he was then labouring for her, with
the spirit and strength and love of a father rather than a brother. Every face was overcast
and grave; and many of the boys and girls were weeping, for little Nan had endeared herself
to them all since she came to live at the cinder-hill cabin. Tim felt faint and heart-sick,
almost wishing he could have perished in the child's stead, for poor Stephen's sake; but he
had to rouse himself, for one of the banksmen was going to shout the terrible tidings down
the shaft; and if Stephen should be near, instead of being at work farther in the pit, the
words would fall upon him without any softening or preparation. He implored them to wait until
he could run and tell Miss Anne; but while he was speaking they saw Miss Anne herself coming
towards the pit, her face very pale and sorrowful, for the rumour had reached the master's
house, and she was hastening to meet Stephen, and comfort him, if that were possible.

'Oh, Miss Anne!' cried Tim; 'it will kill poor Stephen, if it come upon him sudden like. I
know the way through the old pit to where poor little Nan has fallen; and I'll go and find
her. The roof's dropped in, and only a boy could creep along. But who's to tell Stevie? Oh,
Miss Anne, couldn't you go down with me, and tell him gently your own self?'

'Yes, I will go,' said Miss Anne, weeping.

Underground, in those low, dark, pent-up galleries, lighted only here and there by a glimmering
lamp, the colliers were busy at their labours, unconscious of all that was happening overhead.
Stephen was at work at some distance from the others, loading a train of small square waggons
with the blocks of coal which he and Black Thompson had picked out of the earth. He was singing
softly to himself the hymns that he and little Nan had been learning during the summer in the
Red Gravel Pit; and he smiled as he fancied that little Nan was perhaps singing them over as
well by the cabin fire. He did not know, poor boy, that at that moment Tim was creeping through
the winding, blocked-up passages, so long untrodden, to the bottom of the old shaft; and that
when he returned he would be bearing in his arms a sad, sad burden, upon which his tears would
fall unavailingly.

Stephen's comrades were all of a sudden very quiet, and their pickaxes no longer gave dull
muffled thumps upon the seam of coal; but he was too busy to notice how idle and still they
were. It was only when Cole spoke to him, in a tone of extraordinary mildness, that the boy
paused in his rough and toilsome employment.

'My lad,' said Cole, 'Miss Anne's come down the pit, and she's asking for thee.'

'She promised she'd come some day,' cried Stephen, with a thrill of pleasure and a quicker
throbbing of his heart, as he darted along the narrow paths to the loftier and more open space
near the bottom of the shaft, where Miss Anne was waiting for him. The covered lamps gave too
little light for him to see how pale and sorrow-stricken she looked; but the solemn tenderness
of her voice sank deeply into his heart.

'Stephen, my dear boy,' she said, 'are you sure that I care for you, and would not let any
trouble come upon you if I could help it?'

'Yes, surely, Miss Anne,' answered the boy wonderingly.

'Your Father which is in heaven cares much more for you,' she continued; 'but "whom the Lord
loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom He receiveth." God is dealing with you as
His son, Stephen. Can you bear the sorrow which is sent by Him?'

'If the Lord Jesus will help me,' he murmured.

'He will help you, my poor boy,' said Miss Anne 'Oh, Stephen, Stephen, how can I tell you?
Our little Nan, our precious little child, has fallen down the old shaft.'

Stephen reeled giddily, and would have sunk to the ground, but Cole held him up in his strong
arms, while his comrades gathered about him with tears and sobs, which prevented them uttering
any words of consolation. But he could not have listened to them. He fancied he heard the pattering
of Nan's little feet, and saw her laughing face. But no! he heard instead the dull and lingering
footsteps of Tim, and saw a little lifeless form folded from sight in Tim's jacket.

'The little lass 'ud die very easy,' whispered Cole, passing his arm tighter round Stephen;
'and she's up in heaven among the angels by this time, I reckon.'

Stephen drew himself away from Cole's arm, and staggered forward a step or two to meet Tim;
when he took the sad burden from him, and sat down without a word, pressing it closely to his
breast. His perfect silence touched all about him. Miss Anne hid her face in her hands, and
some of the men groaned aloud.

'The old pit ought to have been bricked up years ago,' said Cole; 'the child's death will be
upon the master's head.'

'It'll all go to one reckoning,' muttered Black Thompson. But Stephen seemed not to hear their
words. Still, with the child clasped tightly to him, he waited for the lowering of the skip,
and when it descended, he seated himself in it without lifting up his head, which was bent
over the dead child. Miss Anne and Tim took their places beside him, and they were drawn up
to the broad, glittering light of day on the surface, where a crowd of eager bystanders was
waiting for Stephen's appearance.

'Don't speak to me, please,' he murmured, without looking round; and they made way for him
in his deep, silent grief, as he passed on homewards, followed by Miss Anne. Once she saw him
look up to the hills, where, at Fern's Hollow, the new house stood out conspicuously against
the snow; and when they passed the shaft, he shuddered visibly; but yet he was silent, and
scarcely seemed to know that she was walking beside him.

The cabin was full of women from Botfield, for Martha had fallen into violent fits of hysterics,
and none of their remedies had any effect in soothing her. One of them took the dead child
from Stephen's arms at the door, and bade him go away and sit in her cottage till she came
to him. But he turned off towards the hills; and Miss Anne, seeing that she could say nothing
to comfort him just then, watched him strolling along the old road that led to Fern's Hollow,
with his arms folded and his head bent down, as if he were still carrying that sad burden which
he had borne up from the pit, so closely pressed against his heart.

CHAPTER XV.

RENEWED CONFLICT.

'I'm a murderer, Miss Anne,' said Martha, with a look of settled despair upon her face, on
the evening of the next day.

She had been sitting all the weary hours since morning with her face buried in her hands, hearing
and heeding no one, until Miss Anne came and sat down beside her, speaking to her in her own
kind and gentle tones. Upon a table in the corner of the cabin lay the little form of the dead
child, covered with a white cloth. The old grandfather was crouching over the fire, moaning
and laughing by turns; and Stephen was again absent, rambling upon the snowy uplands.

'And for murderers there is pardon,' said Miss Anne softly.

'Oh, I never thought I wanted pardon,' cried Martha; 'I always felt I'd done my duty better
than any of the girls about here. But I've killed little Nan; and now I remember how cross
I used to be when nobody was nigh, till she grew quite timmer-some of me. Everybody knows I've
murdered her; and now it doesn't signify how bad I am. I shall never get over that.'

'Martha,' said Miss Anne, 'you are not so guilty of the child's death as my uncle, who ought
to have had the pit bricked over safely when it was no longer in use. But you say you never
thought you wanted pardon. Surely you feel your need of it now.'

'But God will never forgive me now,' replied Martha hopelessly; 'I see how wicked I have been,
but the chance is gone by. God will not forgive me now; nor Stephen.'

'We will not talk about Stephen,' said Miss Anne; 'but I will tell you about God. When He gave
His commandments to mankind that they might obey them, He proclaimed His own name at the same
time. He is waiting to pardon your iniquity, for Christ's sake. Do you wish to be forgiven
now? Do you feel that you are a sinful girl, Martha?'

'I have thought of nothing else all day long,' whispered Martha; 'I have helped to kill little
Nan by my sins.'

'Yes,' said Miss Anne mournfully; 'if, like Stephen, you had opened your heart to the gentle
teaching of the Holy Spirit, if you had looked to Jesus, trusted in Him, and followed Him,
this grief would not have come upon you and upon all of us. For Bess would not have persuaded
you to leave your own duties, and little Nan would have been alive still.'

'Oh, I knew I'd killed her!' cried a voice behind them; and, looking round, Miss Anne saw that
the door had been softly opened, and Bess had crept in unheard. Her face was swollen with weeping,
and she stood wringing her hands, as she cast a fearful glance at the white-covered table in
the corner.

'Come here, Bess,' said Miss Anne; and the girl crept to them, and sat down on the ground at
their feet. Miss Anne talked long with them about little Nan's death, until they shed many
tears in true contrition of heart for their sinfulness; and when they appeared to feel their
own utter helplessness, she explained to them, in such simple and easy language as Bess could
understand, how they could obtain salvation through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. After which
they all knelt down; and Miss Anne prayed earnestly for the weeping and heart-broken girls,
who, as yet, hardly knew how they could frame any prayers for themselves.

When Miss Anne left the cabin the night was quite dark but the snow which lay unmelted on the
mountains showed their outlines plainly with a pale gleaming of light though the sky was overcast
with more snow-clouds. Her heart was full of sadness for Stephen, who was wandering, no one
knew whither, among the snowdrifts on the solitary plains. She knew that he must be passing
through a terrible trial and temptation, but she could do nothing for him; her voice could
not reach him, nor her eye tell him by a silent look how deeply she felt for him. Yet Miss
Anne knew who it is that possesseth 'the shields of the earth,' and in her earnest thanksgiving
to God for Martha and Bess Thompson, she prayed fervently that the boy might be shielded and
sheltered in his great sorrow, and that when he was tried he might come forth as gold.

All the day long, Stephen, instead of going to his work in the pit, had been rambling, without
aim or purpose, over the dreary uplands; here and there stretching himself upon the wiry heath,
where the sun had dried away the snow, and hiding his face from the light, while he gave way
to an anguish of grief, and broke the deep silence with a loud and very bitter cry. It was
death, sudden death, he was lamenting. Only yesterday morning little Nan was clinging strongly
to his neck, and covering his face with merry kisses; and every now and then he felt as if
he was only dreaming, and he started down towards home, as though he could not believe that
those tender arms were stiffened and that rosy mouth still in death. But before he could run
many paces the truth was borne in upon his aching heart that she was surely dead; and never
more in this life would he see and speak to her, or listen to her lisping tongue. Little Nan,
dearest of all earthly things,--perhaps dearer to him in the infancy of his Christian life
than the Saviour Himself,--was removed from him so far that she was already a stranger, and
he knew nothing of her.

Towards evening he found himself, in his aimless wandering, drawing near to Fern's Hollow,
where she had lived. The outer shell of the new house was built up, the three rooms above and
below, with the little dairy and coal-shed beside them, and Stephen, even in his misery, was
glad of the shelter of the blank walls from the cutting blast of the north wind; for he felt
that he could not go home to the cabin where the dead child--no longer darling little Nan--was
lying. Poor Stephen! He sat down on a heap of bricks upon the new hearth, where no household
fire had ever been kindled; and, while the snow-flakes drifted in upon him unheeded, he buried
his face again in his hands, and went on thinking, as he had been doing all day. He would never
care to come back now to Fern's Hollow. No! he would get away to some far-off country, where
he should never more hear the master's name spoken. Let him keep the place, he thought, and
let it be a curse to him, for he had bought it with a child's blood. If the law gave him back
Fern's Hollow, it would not avenge little Nan's death; and he had no power. But the master
was a murderer; and Stephen knelt down on the desolate hearth, where no prayer had ever been
uttered, and prayed God that the sin and punishment of murder might rest upon his enemy.

Was it consolation that filled Stephen's heart when he rose from his knees? It seemed as if
his spirit had grown suddenly harder, and in some measure stronger. He did not feel afraid
now of going down to the cabin, where the little lifeless corpse was stretched out; and he
strode away down the hill with rapid steps. When the thought of Martha, and his grandfather,
and Miss Anne crossed his mind, it was with no gentle, tender emotion, but with a strange feeling
that he no longer cared for them. All his love was gone with little Nan. Only the thought of
the master, and the terrible reckoning that lay before him, sent a thrill through his heart.
'I shall be there at the judgment,' he muttered half aloud, looking up to the cold, cloudy
sky, almost as if he expected to see the sign of the coming of the Lord. But there was no sign
there; and, after gazing for a minute or two, he turned in the direction of the cabin, where
he could see a glimmer of the light within through the chinks of the door and shutter.

Bess and Martha were still sitting hand in hand as Miss Anne had left them; but they both started
up as Stephen entered, pale and ghastly from his long conflict with grief and temptation on
the hills. He was come home conquered, though he did not know it; and the expression of his
face was one of hatred and vengeance, instead of sorrow and love. He bade Black Bess to be
off out of his sight in a voice so changed and harsh, that both the girls were frightened,
and Martha stole away tremblingly with her. He was alone then, with his sleeping grandfather
on the bed, and the dead child lying in the corner, from which he carefully averted his eyes;
when there came a quiet tap at the door, and, before he could answer, it was slowly opened,
and the master stepped into the cabin. He stood before the boy, looking into his white face
in silence, and when he spoke his voice was very husky and low.

'My lad,' he said, 'I'm very sorry for you; and I'll have the pit bricked over at once. It
had slipped my memory, Stephen; but Martha knew of it, and she ought to have taken better care
of the child. It is no fault of mine; or it is only partly my fault, at any rate. But, whether
or no, I'm come to tell you I'm willing to bear the expenses of the funeral in reason; and
here's a sovereign for you besides, my lad.'

The master held out a glittering sovereign in his hand, but Stephen pushed it away, and, seizing
his arm firmly, drew him, reluctant as he was, to the white-covered table in the corner. There
was no look of pain upon the pale, placid little features before them; but there was an awful
stillness, and all the light of life was gone out of the open eyes, which were fixed into an
upward gaze. The Bible, which Stephen had not looked for that morning, had been used instead
of a cushion, and the motionless head lay upon it.

'That was little Nan yesterday,' said Stephen hoarsely; 'she is gone to tell God all about
you. You robbed us of our own home; and you've been the death of little Nan. God's curse will
be upon you. It's no use my cursing; I can do nothing; but God can punish you better than me.
A while ago I thought I'd get away to some other country where I'd never hear of you; but I'll
wait now, if I'm almost clemmed to death, till I see what God will do at you. Take your money.
You've robbed me of all I love, but I won't take from you what you love. I'll only wait here
till I see what God can do.'

He loosed his grasp then, and opened the door wide. The master muttered a few words indistinctly,
but he did not linger in the cabin beside that awful little corpse. The night had already deepened
into intense darkness; and Stephen, standing at the door to listen, thought, with a quick tingling
through all his veins, that perhaps the master would himself fall down the open pit. But no,
he passed on securely; and Martha, coming in shortly afterwards, ventured to remark that she
had just brushed against the master in the lane, and wondered where he was going to at that
time of night.

Miss Anne came to see Stephen the next day; but, though he seemed to listen to her respectfully,
she felt that she had lost her influence over him; and she could do nothing for him but intercede
with God that the Holy Spirit, who only can enter into our inmost souls and waken there every
memory, would in His own good time recall to Stephen's heart all the lessons of love and forgiveness
he had been learning, and enable him to overcome the evil spirit that had gained the mastery
over him.

All the people in Botfield wished to attend little Nan's funeral, but Stephen would not consent
to it. At first he said only Tim and himself should accompany the tiny coffin to the churchyard
at Longville; but Martha implored so earnestly to go with them, that he was compelled to relent.
The coffin was placed in a little cart, drawn by one of the hill-ponies, and led slowly by
Tim; while Stephen and Martha walked behind, the latter weeping many humble and repentant tears,
as she thought sorrowfully of little Nan; but Stephen with a set and gloomy face, and a heart
that pondered only upon the calamities that should overtake his enemy.

CHAPTER XVI.

SOFTENING THOUGHTS.

But God had not forsaken Stephen; though, for a little time, He had left him to the working
of his own sinful nature, that he might know of a certainty that in himself there dwelt no
good thing. God looks down from heaven upon all our bitter conflicts; and He weighs, as a just
Judge, all the events that happen on earth. From the servant to whom He has given but one talent,
He does not demand the same service as from him who has ten talents. Stephen's heavenly Father
knew exactly how much understanding and strength he possessed, for He Himself had given those
good gifts to the boy, and He knew in what measure He had bestowed them. When the right time
was come, 'He sent from above, He took him, He brought him out of many waters. He brought him
forth also into a large place; He delivered him, because He delighted in him.'

After the great tribulation of those days Stephen fell into a long and severe illness. For
many weeks he was delirious and unconscious, neither knowing what he said nor who was taking
care of him. When Miss Anne sat beside him, soothing him, as she sometimes could do, with singing,
he would talk of being in heaven, and listening to little Nan among the angels. Bess shared
many of Martha's weary hours of watching: and so deeply had the child's death affected them,
that now all their thoughts and talk were about the things that Miss Anne diligently taught
them concerning Jesus and His salvation. It was not much they knew; but as in former times
a very small subject was sufficient for a long gossip, so now the little knowledge of the Scriptures
that was lodged in either of their minds became the theme of fluent, if not very learned conversation.
Sometimes Stephen, as if their words caught some floating memory, would murmur out a verse
or two in his delirious ramblings, or sing part of a hymn. Tim, also, who came for an hour
or two every evening, was always ready to read the few chapters he had learned, and to give
the girls his interpretation of them.

There was no pressing want in the little household, though their bread-winner was unable to
work. The miners made up Stephen's wages among themselves at every reckoning, for Stephen had
won their sincere respect, though they had often been tempted to ill-treat him. Miss Anne came
every day with dainties from the master's house, without meeting with any reproof or opposition,
though the name of Stephen Fern never crossed Mr. Wyley's lips. Still he used to listen attentively
whenever the doctor called upon Miss Anne, to give her his opinion how the poor boy was going on.

When Stephen was recovering, his mind was too weak for any of the violent passions that had
preceded his illness. Moreover, the bounty of his comrades, and the humble kindness of Martha
and Bess, came like healing to his soul; for very often the tenderness of others will seem
to atone for the injuries of our enemies, and at least soften our vehement desire for revenge.
Yet, in a quiet, listless sort of way, Stephen still longed for God to prove His wrath against
the master's wrong-doing. It appeared so strange to hear that all this time nothing had befallen
him, that he was still strong and healthy, and becoming more and more wealthy every day. Like
Asaph, the psalmist, when he considered the prosperity of the wicked, Stephen was inclined
to say, 'How doth God know? and is there knowledge with the Most High? He was very white and
thin, and his eyes looked large and shining in their sunken sockets; but they gazed earnestly
into his teacher's face, as if he was craving to have this difficulty solved.

'You have asked me a hard question,' said Miss Anne; 'we cannot understand God's way, for "as
the heavens are higher than the earth, so are His ways than our ways." But shall we try to
find out a reason why God let these things be for little Nan's sake?'

'Yes,' said Stephen, turning away his eyes from her face.

'Our Lord Jesus Christ had one disciple, called John, whom He loved more than the rest; and
before John died he was permitted to see heaven, and to write down many of the things shown
to him, that we also might know of them. He beheld a holy city, whose builder and maker is
God, and having the glory of God. It was built, as it were, of pure gold, and the walls were
of all manner of precious stones; the gates of the city were of pearl, and the streets of gold,
as clear and transparent as glass. There was no need of the sun nor of the moon to shine in
it; for the glory of God doth lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof. He saw, too, the
throne of God, and above it there was a rainbow of emerald, which was a sign of His covenant
with the people upon earth. And round about the throne, nearer than the angels, there were
seats, upon which men who had been ransomed from this world of sin and sorrow were sitting
in white robes, and with crowns upon their heads. There came a pure river of water of life
out of the throne, and on each side of the river, in the streets of the city, there was a tree
of life, the leaves of which are for the healing of all nations. Before the throne stood a
great multitude, which no man could number, clothed in white robes, and with palms in their
hands. And as John listened, he heard a sound like the voice of many waters; then, as it became
clearer, it seemed like the voice of a great thunder; but at last it rang down into his opened
ears as the voice of many harpers, singing a new song with their harps. The disciple whom Jesus
loved saw many other things which he was commanded to seal up; but these things were written
for our comfort.'

'And little Nan is there,' murmured Stephen, as the tears rolled down his cheeks.

'Our Lord says of little children, "I say unto you, That in heaven their angels do always behold
the face of my Father which is in heaven,"' continued Miss Anne. 'Stephen, do you wish her
to be back again in this sorrowful world, with Martha and you for companions, instead of the
angels?'

'Oh no!' sobbed Stephen.

'And now, why has God sent so many troubles to you, my poor Stephen? As I told you before,
we cannot understand His ways yet. But do not you see that sorrow has made you very different
to the other boys about you? Have you not gained much wisdom that they do not possess? And
would you change your lot with any one of them? Would you even be as you were yourself twelve
months ago, before these afflictions came? We are sent into this world for something more than
food and clothing, and work and play. Our souls must live, and they are dead if they are not
brought into submission to God's will. Even our own Lord and Saviour, "though He were a son,
yet learned He obedience by the things which He suffered." How much more do we need to suffer
before we learn obedience to the will of God!

'Then there is Martha,' continued Miss Anne, after a pause; 'she and Bess are both brought
to repentance by the death of our little child. Surely I need not excuse God's dealings to
you any more, Stephen.'

'But there comes no judgment upon the master,' said Stephen in a low voice.

A flush of pain passed over Miss Anne's face as she met Stephen's eager gaze, and saw something
of the working of his heart in his flashing eye.

'Our God will suffer no sin to go unpunished for ever,' she answered solemnly. '"Vengeance
is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord." Listen, Stephen: when our Lord spoke those "blessings"
in your chapter, He implied that on the opposite side there were curses corresponding to them.
His soul, which is as precious and immortal as ours, may perish for ever!'

Stephen looked at her bitter weeping with a longing desire to say something to comfort her,
but he could not speak a word: for her grief was caused by the thought of the very vengeance
he was wishing for. He turned away his head uneasily, and gazed deep down into the glowing
embers of the fire.

'Not my prayers and love only,' continued Miss Anne, 'but our Saviour's also; all His griefs
and sorrows may prove unavailing, as far as my uncle is concerned. Perhaps He will say of him,
"I have laboured in vain, I have spent My strength for nought, and in vain." O my Saviour!
because I love Thee, I would have every immortal soul saved for Thy eternal glory.'

'And so would I, Miss Anne,' cried the boy, sinking on his knees. 'Oh, Miss Anne, pray to Jesus
that I may love all my enemies for His sake.'

When Miss Anne's prayer was ended, she left Stephen alone to the deep but gentler thoughts
that were filling his mind. Not only did God send rain and sunshine upon the evil and unjust,
but He had so loved them as to give His only begotten Son to die for them; and if they perished,
so far it made the cross of Christ of none effect. Henceforth the bitterness of revenge died
out of his heart; and whenever he bent his knees in prayer, he offered up the dying petition
of his namesake, the martyr Stephen, in behalf of all his enemies, but especially of his master:
'Lord, lay not this sin to their charge.'

CHAPTER XVII.

A NEW CALLING.

Stephen's recovery went on so slowly, that the doctor who attended him said it would not be
fit for him to resume his underground labour for some months to come, if he were ever able
to do so; and advised him to seek some out-door employment. We went two and toured the gallery, without finding any person, and the
strange case of the man who seemed to be coughed throughout the trip.

Tired of searching, we returned to the room, and crossing the threshold, the mysterious cough
suffering character, so that increased clearly hear that he was drowning, that horrible cough degenerated
into snoring in rattle, and suddenly we heard meowing, screaming horribly in all imaginable dissonances,
a large number of cats. I could have sworn that there was a hundred of these animals around
us. Let it out into the corridor with security phosphorescent eyes to see the shadows of the
arcade, but nothing was visible. Tightened the horrible confusion, I heard something was falling,
and looking back, I saw Paulino kneeling knees in the middle of the room, arms crossed, and
drawn in the greatest terror his face, exclaimed in awe:

- Jesus!

The old master, old master!

There are events in life, when you remember last year, and with serene mind only have a look
laughable. But I never forget that night, hearing the death rattle of an Invisible Man, the horrible
one hundred cats meowing and accents of terror of a poor Indian blood froze in my veins, erizáronse
my hair, shook my body, and - I confess -!

I was afraid!

I left the room abruptly, followed by Paul, and stumbling with scaffolding
and boats painting, we went to to the bedroom where Antonio slept
alone.

- Antonio, by God!

I cried. This place is haunted!

- What? What happens?

But, man, "said Antonio, lighting the candle and see the expression
our faces.

What do you have? Are you crazy?

- A little less, I assure you.

And I told him hastily what we had just heard.

- Come on, man! No way!

You are dreaming.

Here we go, and you will see nothing.

- No! Do not go!

- Yes, he
said resolutely, and we set off he go.

To get to my bedroom and enter it, there was total silence.

- See? said my friend. But at that moment broke again and Paulino horrible meow could only
exclaim, in a tone of terror:

- Boy, is the old master!

- Come,
come here!

And leave that dreadful room.

The rest of the night Antonio and I passed without a word, in separate
seats of room, smoking cigarettes and seized our minds a thousand
guesses, until the open window we saw the stars fade and draw the
clear sky the long-awaited dawn.

As should be expected, with the light of day increased my desire to clarify the strange event,
and harassment to my friend a thousand questions, which he excused himself to answer, saying
everything was a mystery to him. But despite this, I realized that I knew something did not want
to communicate, and therefore I urged him that, at last, a dilapidated Manager required keys,
and said laconically:

- Me.

We went through the entire corridor, smiling with the morning light and the scent of the plants there
had, went down stairs, traveled corridors, and finally, Antonio opened a small door that, by turning
on its hinges, blew out a strong smell of old paper and chamois. Immediately I realized it was
the file of the house. In fact, he found himself filled that dome camera bundles, folios and
books stacked on several shelves and carefully arranged, as could be gathered by clear numbers
and signs each bore. He paused a moment, and toured with the view
that ancient array of paper and parchment.

He extended his arm and fell your site is not a bundle of large,
carefully untied it and reviewed records containing up to an edict
of the Inquisition, written in Genoa and tough role header with the
usual formula of "We the Inquisitors of the Faith against the heretical
bravedad etc.. "

It took me some time to decipher its contents, taking in conclusion
that the August 15 the year of 1614, was denounced as a witch, before
the Holy Office of the Inquisition, the Lord Goya Joaquin de Herrera,
owner of "Hacienda de Grind sugar San Francisco Xavier, Bishopric
of Puebla de los Angeles.

" The court feared that quoted Mr. to appear before him, a horrible
position, and, if found guilty, suffer the consequent penalty.

-
What would Mal Herrera Goya in the Inquisition!

I exclaimed, to finish reading the document.

- It appeared, said Antonio. The day I received this edict, died.

- What! How?

- I think it died of old age - he was eighty years - or the shock
of being in such a hurry trance, but I'll tell you, as all want to
know, that some say that her death was tragic.

This Herrera Goya, it seems, was a rare entity, especially for its time. Used to experiment
with weed, insect collecting, and was up half a hundred cats who followed him everywhere.

Do not fail to cause unpleasant surprise this point, which immediately acquainted with the mystery
we wanted to clarify.

- I understand your shock, "continued Antonio. And you should know that according to tradition
among the people of this estate, Herrera Goya - Old Master, as they call it - greatly abused
his strange entourage, nay, tormented at every moment.

And say when he died was because all the cats jumped him, digging her nails into his neck and
tearing throat in rags, almost, after suffering horrible, lifeless in a pool of his own blood.

Refirióme
then how the Holy Office of the Inquisition forbade Herrera bury in a sacred place and how the
bloody corpse was buried in the garden, where he scored his bury what I had mistaken for a seat.

On the afternoon of that day we returned to Mexico and all the way,
I could not distract from my mind the incident that had impressed
me so much.

Upon reaching the city, sent say masses for the soul of this "old
master", who was denied Christian burial, but found it poetry, sheltered
by mangrove and palms, near the spout of the "Garden of the Sultana."

It was a few months. One day I said to Antonio:

- You know I've written to San Javier, which this year ordered Herrera
Goya painted black?

- Man, do not do that!

Take care.

- Hello!

       Are you superstitious?

Three days later, the society of Mexico was dismayed to learn that the rebel hordes had entered
the bag in the main hacienda of Sandoval Hernández, who had set heat to ingenuity, and blown
up with dynamite the old building.

San Javier, and it was just a huge pile of rubble.

THE CHEST

JESUS ​​REYES FERREIRA

The flickering flames, the fire in the fireplace gave off, did a fantastic range, on the walls
of the room, the shadow of the old Don Alejandro.

He huddled in a chair wide near the home, tried to warm your body, numb, not so much by bad weather
at that time was, the punishment for years and weighed about him. But despite its proximity
to the fire, felt cold.

Many nights spent long hours in the same spot, staring at the red light! Sometimes the forms assumed
burning logs bartered his imagination in people and happenings real,
and so became that home on stage, in which often represented the grim
drama of his life.

The first act, as it was of little interest. After his early years, after next to his mother
saw his college life, sad life and no friends, so much influenced his character, making sullen
and withdrawn.

The second act began with a frightening picture. On the bed lay his mother's death, the it only being
loved, and next, standing contemplábala a severe man, almost revolting: his father.

Sucedíanse other acts of the drama with fidelity. Don Alejandro ran major capitals of the world
in search of distraction, but all fled from him, be like a infectious, thus embittered his character
more and more. When returning home, he found his father was dying. Without feeling any pain,
saw how they turned out the existence of the author of his life. The doctor indicated that no further
action ... Came the priest, but the dying stating he could only with great difficulty, the words:

-
The chest ...!

The room that was Don Alejandro kept many works of art and antiques.

Among them, in a corner of the room was a large iron chest, covered almost in its entirety, with
brass nails and rivets. This was, without doubt, the casket which the dying man had intended
to, but the key had been found and the secret if it was secret, has been ignored.

For the thousandth time, Don Alejandro glanced towards the corner of the room, and trembled to
see that the hood was open. The heavy lid resting against the wall, revealing the ancient and complicated
mechanism of a lock.

The old long remained without power away from that place the frightened eyes. For end, making
a supreme effort, he left his seat next to the fireplace, and a sense
of terror, he went to the chest.

At first he could see nothing inside, but few moments later saw a
yellow rectangle lying on the bottom.

Hincóse knees and with trembling hands removed the object. It was an envelope, stained over
time, no sign of any kind.

Formidable sudden noise made him turn his head, frightened, and saw that the cover trunk had
fallen into place, closing it again.

He returned to the home side to read the contents of the envelope, but their hands were so trembling,
unable to verify. After a few moments, he managed to win on peace, opened the cover and with
eyes of terror, extracted the statement contained therein. But head was spinning and had to rely
on the chair to keep from falling to the ground. Set of New eyes on the hearth, and saw clearly
the dreadful scene of his death mother. Stunned, looked the old man around furtively, afraid
of being observed, and decided make an effort to read the statement, but the paper ran away from
his trembling hands and fell the flames that consumed it voraciously.

Don Alejandro looked toward the corner where there was a closed casket and even closer to chimney,
but, despite its proximity to the fire was cold.

IMAGO Tristis

Talked, my friend and I, of indifferent and trivial.

The sun about to disappear, cast light upon the earth warm and reddish, and the heat coming
through the open window seemed to spread throughout the room. The columns of smoke from our
cigarettes light rose up together in clouds that were nesting in
the coffered wooden ceiling, and damask that covered the walls took
on a richer tint than usual.

The conversation began to languish, and there came a time when both were silent, as if they obey
some mysterious command.

I had some pride in that room, that putting together he possessed
more courage and deep affection, and was not the first time since
my chair looked all over the furniture and paintings that adorned.

Rafael also liked that collection and often praised, so I was not surprised to see it go to
the hearing this motley collection of objects.

Across from where we sat, hung the wall a portrait bust of my mother,
dressed in the fashion of the Second Empire.

Despite light which at times grew fainter, the portrait stood out
very well, and was accentuated on his face the ineffable sweetness
that the painter had managed to faithfully reproduce.

I do not know how long silent. Suddenly I felt a rush of melancholy as and I looked at the
portrait.

I shuddered at the sight, and I noticed that my friend suffered the
same printing.

                       We looked at both, and he stands and said very softly:

- She's crying!

I

nodded, and my partner to step softly, left the room and shut the
door after him carefully.

Then I seized with great anxiety, I went and saw the portrait is encouraged. A cloud of sadness
clouded my mother's face, and tears welled in her eyes fell more abundantly. They moved her lips and
heard the voice again silenced than twenty years.

- My son! I feel great pity for you! The way you have to travel is rough and difficult, and great
suffering will be yours. That's why I feel so great pity for you. Never make anyone share in
your troubles, or your best friend always save them for you. Be stingy about your feelings, to
tell nobody. My son, how much compassion I feel for you!

The shadows of the night broke almost immediately and soon I was wrapped in thick darkness.

Finally, after a short time is not turned on the light and opened the door. Rafael was in the gallery,
in the hollow of a window, and to me, seemed to wake from a dream.

- Rafael ...! I cried, but he interrupted me, saying:

- Do not tell me no, no, not me I'm your best friend!

And silently enter the room again. With artificial light, all things presented its usual appearance,
and the portrait of my mother Inaf sweetness of her face. Below him, on a table, was my last sonnet,
I took to read it to Rafael, and I found it was wet and smudged.

CHESS PLAYERS
A ROBERTO MONTENEGRO.

I

Anxieties, india tarasca purebred, was
a teacher in the difficult art of caring and entertaining children.
For several years he served in my family, lavishing his care, in turn,
five brothers were. If our house was visited by an illness, Angus
was always at the bedside, and when it came to wipe away tears, the
result some prank of boys, the kind word soon gave us comfort. But
the science of caring nanny was more apparent when we were happy.
Inventing games new, truly bizarre gestures, thanks to all classical
features, or storytelling never imagined, made us very pleasant and
the evening hours, arrival time, could drive gently into the world
of dreams. Another special gift of Sorrows was the prompt response
that led to the many pilgrims who used to ask questions the little
people. Such was the spontaneity of the response and so great aplomb
with which the did, never put into question by her proposed solution
to any problem that was presented to our children's brains.

The memories
of my childhood are closely linked to the Hacienda de San Isidro Labrador
where he resided most of the year. The farm, near Mexico City, was
owned of the Society of Jesus from the earliest times of the Colony,
and when the famous religious were expelled from Spanish dominions,
for the reasons that Charles III had see fit to "in real breast,"
was purchased by my ancestor. Understandably, then, the house of the
Hacienda had more character monastery farm field, and my father following
the example of their elders, always wanted to retain the austere aspect
which initially had. The rooms, all vaulted and very high; the endless
cloisters with semicircular arches, the walls, thick as a medieval
castle, and mainly fast throughout the region of natural wonders -
they bore, as the only galas, large maguey and one or eucalyptus in
the middle of fields of maize and barley - were of the Treasury San
Isidro Labrador a place that many repugnant, but others, in contrast,
attracted by their very nakedness and severity. He ran swiftly over the pit-banks, and stole
along by the limekilns and the blacksmith's shop, for under the heavy door he could see a little
fringe of light. How loudly the dry cinders cranched under his careful footsteps! Yet, quiet
as the blacksmith's shop was, and soundless as the night without, the noise did not reach the
ears of those who were lurking within, and Stephen went on in safety. There stood the master's
house at last, black and massive-looking against the dark sky; not a gleam from fire or candle
to be seen below, for every window was closely shuttered; but on the second storey there shone
a lighted casement, which Stephen knew belonged to the master's chamber. The dog, which came
often with Miss Anne to the cinder-hill cabin, gave one loud bay, and then sprang playfully
upon Stephen, as if to apologize for his mistake in barking at him. For some minutes the boy
stood in deep deliberation, scarcely daring to knock at the door, lest some of the housebreakers
should be already concealed near the spot, and rush upon him before it was opened, or else
enter with him into the defenceless dwelling. But at length he gave one very quiet rap with
his fingers, and after a minute's pause his heart bounded with joy as he heard Miss Anne herself
asking who was there.

'Stephen Fern,' he answered, with his lips close to the keyhole, and speaking in his lowest tones.

'What is the matter, Stephen?' she asked. 'I cannot open the door, for my uncle always takes
the keys with him into his own room.'

'Please to take the light into the pantry for one minute,' he whispered cautiously, with a
fervent hope that Miss Anne would do so without requiring any further explanations; for he
was lost if Black Thompson or Davies were lying in wait near at hand. Very thankfully he heard
Miss Anne's step across the quarried floor, and in a moment afterwards the light shone through
a low window close by. It was unglazed, with a screen of open lattice-work over it so as to
allow of free ventilation. It had one thick stone upright in the middle, leaving such a narrow
space as only a boy could creep through. He examined the opening quickly and carefully while
the light remained, and when Miss Anne returned to the door he whispered again through the
keyhole, 'Don't be afraid. It's me--Stephen; I'm coming in through the pantry window.'

He knew his danger. He knew if any of the robbers came up they must hear him removing the wooden
lattice which was laid over the opening; and unless they supposed it to be one of their accomplices
at work, he would be at once in their power, exposed to their ill-treatment, or perhaps suffer
death at their hands. And would Miss Anne within trust to him instead of alarming the master?
If he came down and opened the door, all the designs of the evil men would be hastened and
finished before Martha could return from Longville. But Stephen did not listen, nor did his
fingers tremble over their work, though there was a rush of thoughts and fears through his
brain. He tore away the lattice as quickly and quietly as he could, and, with one keen glance
round at the dark night, he thrust his head through the narrow frame. He found it was just
possible to crush through; and, after a minute's struggle, his feet rested upon the pantry floor.

CHAPTER XIX.

FIRE! FIRE!

Anne was standing close to the pantry door, listening to Stephen's mysterious movements in
utter bewilderment, hardly knowing whether she ought to call her uncle, but not coming to a
decision about it until the boy appeared before her. His first quick action was to secure the
door by fastening a rusty bolt which was on the outside, and then, in a few hurried sentences,
he explained his strange conduct by telling her how Tim had conveyed to him the design of some
of the colliers for breaking into the master's house. There had been several similar robberies
in the country during the strike for wages, and Miss Anne was greatly alarmed, while Stephen
felt all the tender spirit of a brave man aroused within him, as she sank faint and trembling
upon the nearest seat.

'Don't be afraid,' he said courageously; 'they shall tear me to pieces afore they touch you,
Miss Anne. I'm stronger than you'd think; but if I can't take care of thee, God can. Hasn't
He sent me here, afore they come, on purpose? They'd have come upon you unawares, but for God.'

'You are right, Stephen,' answered Miss Anne. 'He says, "Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror
by night." But what shall we do? How can we make ourselves safer? I'll try not to be afraid;
but we must do all we can ourselves. Hark! there's a footstep already!'

Yes, there was a footstep, and not a very stealthy one, approaching the house, and the dog
bounded forward to the full length of his chain, but he was beaten down with a blow that stunned
him. The men were too strong in numbers, and too secure in the extreme loneliness of the dwelling,
to care about taking many precautions. Miss Anne and Stephen heard Mr. Wyley cross the floor
of his room above, and open his window; but there was silence again, and the chime of the house
clock striking eleven was the only sound that broke the silence until the casement above was
reclosed, and the master's footfall returned across the room.

'I must go and tell him,' said Miss Anne; 'perhaps he can secure some of his money, lest Martha
should be stopped on the way, or not come in time. Stay here and watch, Stephen, and let me
know if you hear anything.'

She stole up-stairs in the dark, lest those without should see the glimmer of her candle through
the fanlight in the hall; and then she spoke softly to her uncle through his locked and bolted
door. Down-stairs Stephen listened with his quickened hearing to the footsteps gathering round
the house; and presently the latch of the pantry door was lifted with a sudden click that made
him start and catch his breath; but Jack Davies could come no further, now the rusty bolt was
drawn on the outside. There was a whispered conversation through the pantry window, and the
sound of some one getting out again; and then Stephen crept across the dark kitchen into the
hall through which Miss Anne had gone. At the head of the staircase was the door of the master's
room, now standing open; and the light from it served to guide him across the strange hall,
and up the stairs, until he reached the doorway, and could look in. The chamber had a low and
sloping ceiling, and a gable-window in the roof, which was defended by strong bars. Near this
window was an open cabinet, containing many little drawers and divisions, all of which were
filled with papers; while upon a leaf in the front there lay rolls of bank notes, and heaps
of golden money, which the master had been counting over. He stood beside his cabinet as if
he had just risen from this occupation, and was leaning upon his chair, panic-stricken at the
tidings Miss Anne had uttered. His grey hair was scattered over his forehead, instead of being
smoothly brushed back; and the long, loose coat, which hung carelessly around his shrivelled
form and stooping shoulders, made him look far older than he did in the day-time. As Stephen's
eyes rested upon the sunken form and quaking limbs of the aged man, he felt, for the first
time, how helpless and infirm his enemy was, instead of the rich, full, and prospering master
he had always considered him.

'Keep off!' cried the old miser, as he caught sight of Stephen on the threshold; and he raised
his withered arm as if to ward him from his treasures. 'Keep off! Stephen Fern, is it you?
You've come to take your revenge. The robbers and murderers have got in! O God, have pity upon me!'

'I'm come to take care of Miss Anne,' said Stephen, 'They've not got in yet, master. And, please
God, help will be here afore long with Martha. The doors and windows are safe.'

'Anne, take him away!' implored Mr. Wyley. 'I don't know if it is true, but take him away.
I'm not safe while he's there; they will murder me! Go, go!'

Miss Anne led Stephen away; and no sooner were they outside the room, than the master rushed
forward and locked and barred the door securely behind them. There was a window in the landing,
looking over the yard where the housebreakers were, and they stood at it in silence, straining
their eyes into the darkness. But it did not remain dark long; for a thin, bright flame burst
up from behind the dairy wall, and by its fitful blaze they could see the figures of four men
coming rapidly round from that corner of the old building. As always happens in historical sites, several guidelines are offered to accompany
me, but I refused them all, wanting to enjoy themselves so much work of art.

Suddenly I heard an exclamation of surprise and turned his face, I came face to face with the
Father Montero, my former classmate, who had not seen in five years. Acted of Sacristan of the Cathedral
and carried a huge bunch of keys, it was time to close the temple to reopen it at three in
the afternoon. Seems useless to report the taste I got to see such a good friend of mine.
Convidóme to lunch and promised to teach him it then possessed a charm that council and which
are rarely exposed to the public.

Sounded three, when Father Montero and I started walking the hall councils, sacristies major
and minor, Claverie, the chapel of Our Lady of the Roses, the costume
and other dependencies.

Just to list the many beauties that I showed you fill a volume, and
when I thought I had finished my visit, I announced with some satisfaction:

-
We need to see the main thing: the treasure.

Before an oak door with iron rivets, which at first I thought the staircase would provide access
to Tower, a canon praying his office was waiting for us. With the introductions of the case,
Treasurer opened the heavy wooden door, and appeared another, modern, similar to a safe. Opened
in turn, and then a strong gate, which still prevented the passage. But neither the security
apparatus would suspect the wealth that was stored in that room. Stayed over an hour admiring
custody, chalices, lecterns, statues and all sorts of jewelry, which reports increased interest
scholars of the canon. Suddenly, I blurted a cry of surprise. There before my eyes, locked
inside a cabinet and landed within a pedestal of gold, a bird was identical to my visitor
that morning!

I was studded with emeralds, rubies, diamonds, in short, of the richest jewels that can imagine,
and wrought all with such art, which at first seemed to be alive.

I
understand your emotion, "said the canon. This jewel is reputed as
one of the most remarkable that is news. The shout that
rang from their lips was one of real alarm now.

'Stephen, lad, open the door!' cried Black Thompson. 'We thought to smoke the old fox out of
his kennel, but it's took fire in earnest. We'll not hurt him, nor Miss Anne. Lad! the old
house will burn like tinder.'

What a glaring light spread through the landing! The face of Miss Anne coming from the servant's
room shone rosy and bright in it, though she was pale with fear. Through the open window drifted
a suffocating smoke of burning wood and thatch, and the crackling and splitting of the old
roof sounded noisily above their voices; but Miss Anne commanded herself, and spoke calmly
to Stephen.

'We must open the door to them now,' she said; 'God will protect us from these wicked men.
Uncle! uncle! the house is really on fire, and we want the keys. Let me in.'

She knocked loudly at his door, and lifted up her voice to make him hear, and Stephen shouted;
but there was no answer. Without the keys of the massive locks it would not be possible to
open the doors, and he had them in his own keeping; but he gave no heed to their calls, nor
the vehement screams of the frightened servant. Perhaps he had fallen into a fit; and they
had no means of entering his chamber, so securely had he fastened himself in with his gold.
Stephen and Miss Anne gazed at one another in the dazzling and ominous light, but no words
crossed their trembling lips. Oh, the horror of their position! And already other voices were
mingled with those of the assailants; and every one was shouting from without, praying them
to open the door, and be saved from their tremendous peril.

'I'll not open the door!' said Mr. Wyley from within; 'they will rob and murder me. They are
come to kill me, and I may as well die here. There's no help.'

'There is help, dear uncle!' cried Miss Anne; 'there are other people from Botfield; and help
is coming from Longville. Oh, let me in!'

'No,' said the master, 'they all hate me. They'll kill me, and say it was done in the fire.
I'll not open to anybody.'

She prayed and expostulated in vain; he cared little for their danger, so hardened was he by
a selfish fear for himself. The fire was gaining ground quickly, for a brisk wind had sprung
up, and the long-seasoned timber in the old walls burnt like touchwood. The servant lay insensible
on the threshold of the master's chamber; and Miss Anne and Stephen looked out from a front
casement upon the gathering crowd, who implored them, with frenzied earnestness, to throw open
the door.

'Miss Anne,' cried Stephen, 'you can get through the pantry window; you are little enough.
Oh, be quick, and let me see you safe!'

'I cannot,' she answered: 'not yet! Not till the last moment. I dare not leave my uncle and
that poor girl. Oh, Stephen, if Martha would but come!'

She rested her head against the casement, sobbing, as though her grief could not be assuaged.
Stephen felt heart-sick with his intense longing for the arrival of help from Longville, as
he watched the progress of the fire; but at last, after what appeared ages of waiting, they
heard a shout in the distance, and saw a little band of horsemen galloping up to the burning house.

'They are come from Longville, uncle,' cried Miss Anne. 'You must open now; there is not a
moment to spare. The fire is gaining upon us fast.'

He had seen their approach himself, and now he opened the doors, and gave the keys to Miss
Anne. He had collected all his papers and notes in one large bundle, which he had clasped in
his arms; and as soon as the crowd swept in through the open doors, he cried aloud to the constable
from Longville to come and guard him. There was very little time for saving anything out of
the house, for before long the flames gathered such volume and strength as to drive every one
out before them; and as Stephen stood beside the miserable old man, who was shivering in the
bitter night wind, he beheld his dwelling destroyed as suddenly and entirely as the hut at
Fern's Hollow had been.

CHAPTER XX.

STEPHEN'S TESTIMONY.

Mr. Wyley would not stir from the place where he could gaze upon his old home burning to the
ground. He stood rooted to the spot, like one fascinated and enchained by a power he could
not resist, grasping his precious bundle to his breast, and clinging firmly to the arm of the
Longville doctor, who had been one of those who hastened to his rescue. Now and then he broke
out into a deep cry, which he did not seem to hear himself; but even the grey dawn of the morning,
brightening over the rounded outlines of the mountains, did not awaken him from his trance
of terror and bewilderment. Miss Anne kept near to him all night, and Stephen lingered about
her, making a seat for her upon the grass, and taking care that Martha also should be at hand
to wait upon her. The daily chores of convent life could not make him forget his pain: or verses from
the Psalms and the prayers of the Office. One day he went to a meadow, near the monastery,
which grew large number of flowers of various species, and these perhaps reminded him that he
had so often drawn, idealized, in briefs and missals more tears of pain as his eyes clouded. Fray
Baltasar long been given his deep sorrow and completely forgotten about the monastic rule, and
suddenly seemed soft light enlighten his mind, and fell on his knees cried

- Oh, and miserable pygmy race of mortals! Do not you understand, Baltasar sinner, if God robbed
you of your art has been recreated just because you admire your work and pride it?

There was nothing more to wait for now; and Stephen went quietly home to breakfast in the cinder-hill
cabin.

It was a good deal later than usual that morning when the engineman at the works sent down
the first skip-load of colliers into the pit. Four of their number were absent, but that excited
no surprise after the events of the night; and even Bess Thompson supposed her father had gone
off to the public-house with the others. But what was the amazement of the colliers when they
found Tim at the bottom of the shaft, fiercely hungry after his night's fasting, and as fiercely
anxious to hear what had been taking place overhead. He had the prudence, however, to listen
to their revelations without making any of his own, and would not even explain how he came
to be left behind in the pit. He went up in the ascending skip, and, escaping from the curiosity
of the people on the bank, he darted as straight as an arrow to Stephen's cabin.

'I'm nigh clemmed,' were his first words, as he seized the brown loaf and cut off a slice,
which he devoured ravenously. 'It seems like a year,' he continued; 'thee'lt never catch me
being left behind anywhere again. Eh, Stephen, lad! many a time I shouted for fear I'd never
see daylight again; it's awful down there in the night. Thee hears them as thee can't see punning
agen the coal; and then there comes a downfall like a clap of thunder. I wasn't so much afeared
of little Nan: she never did any harm when she was alive; and I thought God was too good to
send her out of heaven just to terrify a poor lad like me.'

'But how did thee get left behind?' asked Martha.

Then Tim told them how the horse-doctor had gone down to secure one of the ponies in a large,
strong net, in order to bring it to the surface of the earth for a time; and that he had gone
down with him more for his own amusement than to help him. He had wandered a little way into
the winding galleries of the pit, and came back just as the skip was going up for the last
time but one. Of
these four hours, the second and third test was because there was in them all evil that abounds
in the forest during the snow gauge it: air-numbing, vortices which drown, disoriented and stray
mists, trails cleared, soil traitors franked roads with shovels or guessed by the most expert,
unexpected falls, funny many risks and some of them fatal, often scares and incessant toil ... The
time that lasted the passage of the hollow between the first and the second hill was more bearable.
Al end of this basin, ie the beginning of the second hill is the Pedregalón with open mouth
a short distance from the ground and faced to the path that led the expedition. Be discerned
very soon the stain on the stony gray-white background and foams Snow, ten minutes later drew perfectly
the mouth of the cave, and have a little later, something still was not entirely within their
jaws open and disjointed; fifty paces more, and even the least subtle of view met in what seemed
crust of that huge throat and sniffing dogs and the caravan, to pepazo in body and soul. There was a
piece of raw as well as a Japanese idol nestled in his niche, with arms akimbo, the very red
cheeks, mouth from ear to ear and eyes smiling, looking to reach their neighbors, so calm
and carefree as if he had said him to come to that place and time they arrived. For this attitude
irrational, was the greeting that he addressed the newcomers, who could no longer with snowshoeing
or with their own bodies: a storm of insults and nicknames, and even barking dogs.

- Why do not you tiempu golvistes to animal, but animal? - He asked one.
 Poor Bess had been crying bitterly, for by this time it was known that her father
and Davies were in jail; though the others, being young and single men, had fled at once from
the place, and escaped for the present. As soon as Stephen entered, Bess threw herself on her
knees at his feet, and looked up imploringly into his face.

'Oh, dear, good Stephen,' she cried, 'thee canst save father! I'll kneel here till thee has
promised to save him. Oh, don't bear any spite agen him, but forgive him and save him!'

'Get up, Bess,' said Stephen kindly; 'don't thee kneel down to a fellow like me. I'll do anything
for thy father; I've no spite agen him.'

'Oh, I knew thee would!' she said; 'thee'lt tell the justice thee never saw him there till
the other folks came up from Botfield. Tim says he didn't see anybody down in the pit, and
he's promised not to swear to their names. Don't thee swear to seeing anybody.'

'But I did see every one of them,' Stephen answered; 'and Tim knew all their voices; and there'll
be lots to tell who came up in the last skip.'

'There's nobody in Botfield will swear agen them,' pleaded Bess. 'Whose place is it to know
who came up in the last skip, or who was at the fire last night? Oh, Stephen, the Bible says
we're to do good to them that hate us. And if father's hated thee, thee canst save him now.'

'Ay,' said Tim, 'Bess is right; there's not a mother's son in Botfield to swear agen them for
the master's sake. If he didn't see them, nor Miss Anne, why need we know? I'll soon baffle
the justice, I promise ye. It's a rare chance to forgive Black Thompson, anyhow.'

'Bess and Tim,' answered Stephen, in great distress, 'I can't do it. It isn't that I bear a
grudge against thy father--I've almost forgotten that he ever did anything to me. But it's
not true; it's sure to come out somehow. Why, I don't even know what I said to Miss Anne last
night; but if I hadn't told a word to anybody, I'd be bound to tell the truth now.'

'Only say thee aren't certain,' urged Bess.

'Nay, lass,' said Stephen, 'I am certain. I'd do anything that was right for thy sake, and
to save thy father; but I can't do this, and it would be no use if I could. God seeth in secret,
and He will reward men openly. He's begun to reward the master already. We can do nothing for
thy father, but every one of us tell the truth, and pray to God for him.'

'Father was good to thee when thou wert ill,' said Bess.

'Ay, I know it,' he replied; 'but if he was my own father, I could not tell a lie to get him
off. I'd do anything I could. Oh, Bess and Tim, don't ask me to go agen the right!'

'It'll break mother's heart,' said Bess, bursting out into a loud crying. 'We made sure of
thee, because thee says so much about having thy enemies; and we were only afeared of Tim.
Thee says we are to do to another as we'd have them do to us. If thee was in father's place,
thee'd want him to do as I ask thee. Thee doesn't think father wants thee to swear agen him?'

'Nay,' answered Stephen, 'the justice and Miss Anne would have me tell the truth. It seems
as if I can't do to everybody as they'd like me; so I'll abide by telling the truth.'

There was no time for further discussion, for the constable from Longville came in to conduct
them before the magistrate, to give their separate evidence concerning the events of the past
night. Bess went with them, weeping all the way beside them, and grieving Stephen's heart by
her tears, though she dared not speak a word in the constable's presence. But he gave his testimony
gravely and truthfully, and Tim and Martha followed his example; and, in consequence of their
joint evidence, Black Thompson and Davies were fully committed to take their trial at the next
assizes, and were removed that afternoon to the county jail.

CHAPTER XXI.

FORGIVENESS.

Bess Thompson started off on her way to her desolate home, almost heart-broken, and with such
a wrathful resentment against Stephen, and Martha, and Tim, as seemed to blot out all memory
of the lessons she had been learning from Miss Anne since the little child's death. She could
never bear to go near them, or speak to them again, since they had sworn against her father;
and had not he been good to them when Stephen was ill, often sparing her to watch with Martha,
as well as helping to make up his wages? If this was their religion, she did not care to have
it; for nobody else in Botfield would have done the same. And now she might as well give up
all thoughts of getting to heaven, where little Nan and her baby sister were; for there would
be nobody to care for her, and she would be obliged to go back to all her old ways.

These were her bitter thoughts as she walked homewards alone, for Stephen was gone up to the
doctor's house to inquire after the master and Miss Anne, and the others were waiting for him
in Longville. She heard their voices after a while coming along the turnpike road, and walking
quickly as if to overtake her; so she turned aside into a field, and hid herself under a hedge
that they might pass by. She crouched down low upon the grass, and covered her red and smarting
eyes from the sunshine with her shawl, and then she listened for their footsteps to die away
in the distance. But she felt an arm stealing round her, and Martha's voice whispered close
in her ear,--

'Bess, dear Bess, thee must not hide thyself from us. We love thee, Bess; and we are sore sorry
for thee. Stephen is ever so down-hearted about thee and thy father. 

Pepazo To which he replied instantly:

- Because I had empeñau in tackling the mares, and as pa columbralas
nievi served me well dimpués night fell ... pull, pull, pull, Eyas
parriba behind, turns here and saves acuyá ...

- And where are these
beasts to this? - Asked the priest.

- Sábelu God - pepazo saddened
answered the question -.

Al ayegar me to this gem, tresponierum Cumbria Eyas the other as
if the demontris yevaran ... and a galgu echil ... Squeezed blizzard,
thickening the nievi had to walk to Tablanca Muchu, had about this
Cuevona, and here I am so guapamenti mayor.

- And you've been able
to sleep? - I questioned the doctor.

- As he had no other thing ...--
JACER admired mozallón answered the question.

- But remember a damn
thing - insisted Neluco - the fright you gave to your family and all
the people ...

He shrugged his shoulders questioned, as it then fell
for the first time.

The notice, said Don Sabas decomposing a bit:

- And if we had all been so kestrels like you, what would become of you, if not today, tomorrow,
when you hunger and cold rush?

Another response shrug, as if no such signal had crossed the core idea of ​​pepazo.

Finally, there was this man into channel ... not much time to lose
so they went outsiders in the Cuevona, work very easy, because it
had already reached the half a yard of snow mouth, rested and ate
all by the voracity of pepazo line, without which provisions have
not attained to himself, and as the sky was blackened bad part, after
a little rest they all left the cave ready against the march, and
undertook a good walk down the hill.

At first everything went well, and until you buzz abounded, hints and ironies untapped to pepazo,
who was not aware of most of them by natural clumsiness of his his
head.

" Whistle Salces atrocities are unleashed against him, and, above all, against Toper, who opened
the door as it closed at a man as smart as one that he (Chorcos)
knew of "equal than with himself, "and that while nothing was said
for certain languages, was the one who planted the jito in the heart
of Tanasi.

This, said between somersaults, hand wringing and laughter, before of all those people, and without
any respect for the authority of the parish priest, left baffled and fretful to pepazo, Chisco
and color of snow, not cold, but righteous indignation Chorcos that put in serious danger of
rolling down a slope "hung" looming ten rods.


About a fortnight after these events Stephen received a visitor upon the uplands, where he
was seeking a lamb that had strayed into a dwarf forest of gorse-bushes, and was bleating piteously
in its bewilderment. A pleasant-sounding voice called 'Stephen Fern!' and when he got free
from the entangling thorns, with the rescued lamb in his arms, who should be waiting for him
but the lord of the manor himself! Stephen knew his face again in an instant, and dropped the
lamb that he might take off his old cap, while the gentleman smiled at him with a hearty smile.

'I am Danesford, of Danesford,' he said gaily; 'and I believe you are Stephen Fern, of Fern's
Hollow. I've brought you a message, my boy. Can you guess what young lady has sent me over
the hills after you?'

'Miss Anne,' answered Stephen promptly.

'No; there are other young ladies in the world beside Miss Anne!' replied Mr. Danesford. 'Have
you forgotten Miss Lockwood? She has not forgotten you; and we are come home ready to give
battle to your enemies, and reinstate you in all your rights. She gives Mr. Lockwood and me
no rest until we have got Fern's Hollow, and everything else, for you again.'

'Sir,' said Stephen, and his eyes filled with tears, 'nobody can give me back little Nan.'

'No,' answered Mr. Danesford gravely; 'I know how hardly you have been dealt with, my boy.
Tell me truly, is your religion strong enough to enable you to forgive Mr. Wyley indeed? Is
it possible that you can forgive him from your heart?'

Stephen was silent, looking down at the heath upon which his feet were pressed, but seeing
none of its purple blossoms. It was a question that must not be answered rashly, for even that
morning he had glanced down the fatal shaft with a deep yearning after little Nan; and as he
passed the ruins of his master's house, his memory had recalled the destruction of the old
hut with something of a feeling of triumph.

'Sir,' he said, looking up to him, 'I'm afraid I can't explain myself. You know it was for
my sake that the Lord Jesus was killed, yet His Father has forgiven me all my sins; and when
I think of that, I can forgive the master even for little Nan's death with all my heart. But
I don't always remember it; and then I feel a little glad at the fire. I haven't got much religion
yet. I don't know everything that's in the Bible.'

'Yet I could learn some lessons from you, Stephen,' said Mr. Danesford, after a pause. 'What
do you suppose I should do if anybody tried to take Danesford Hall from me?'

'I don't know, sir,' answered Stephen.

'Nor do I,' he said, smiling; 'at any rate, they should not have it with my consent. Nor shall
anybody take Fern's Hollow from you. I have been down to Longville about it, but Mr. Wyley
is too ill to see me. By the way, I told Miss Anne I was coming up the hills after you. She
wants to see you, Stephen, as soon as possible after your work is done.'

Mr. Danesford rode on over the hills, and Stephen walked some way beside him, to put him into
the nearest path for Danesford. After he was gone he watched earnestly for the evening shadows,
and when they stretched far away across the plains, he hastened down to the cabin, and then
on to Longville, to his appointed interview with Miss Anne.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE MASTER'S DEATHBED.

When the master at last consented to leave the sight of his old dwelling burning into blackened
heaps, he seemed to care nothing where he might be taken. He was without a home, and almost
without a friend. It was not accident merely, but the long-provoked hatred of his people, that
had driven him from the old chambers and the old roof which had sheltered him for so many years,
and where all the habits and memories of his life centred. Miss Anne had not been long enough
at Botfield to form friendships on her own account, except among the poor and ignorant people
on her uncle's works; and she accepted most thankfully the offer of the doctor from Longville
to give them a refuge in his house. No sooner had they arrived there than it was discovered
that the master was struck with paralysis, brought on by the shock of the fire, and all the
terrifying circumstances attending it. He was carried at once to a bedroom, and from that time
Miss Anne had been fully occupied in nursing him.

He had seemed to be getting better the last day or two, and his power of speech had returned,
though he spoke but rarely; only following Miss Anne's movements with earnest eyes, and hardly
suffering her to leave him, even for necessary rest and refreshment. All that afternoon he
had been tossing his restless head from side to side, uttering deep, low groans, and murmuring
now and then to himself words which Miss Anne could not understand. She looked white and ill
herself, as if her strength were nearly exhausted; but after the doctor had been in, and, feeling
the master's pulse, shook his head solemnly, she would not consent to leave his bedside for
any length of time.

'How long?' she whispered, going with the doctor to the outside of the door.

'Not more than twenty-four hours,' was the answer.

'Will he be conscious all the time?' she asked again.

'I cannot tell certainly,' replied the doctor, 'but most probably not.'

Only twenty-four hours! One day of swiftly-passing time, and then the eternal future! One more
sun-setting, and one more sun-rising, and then everlasting night, or eternal day! For a minute
Miss Anne leaned against the doorway, with a fainting spirit. There was so much to do, and
so short a space for doing anything. All the real business of the whole life had to be crowded
into these few hours, if possible. As she entered the room, her uncle's eyes met hers with
a glance of unspeakable anguish, and he called her in a trembling tone to her side.

'I heard,' he whispered. 'Anne, what must be done now?'

'Oh, uncle,' she said, 'have I not told you often, that "Christ Jesus came into the world to
save sinners"? There is no limit with God; with him one day is as a thousand years, and He
gives you still a day to make your peace with Him.'

'There is no peace for my soul with God,' he answered; 'I've been at enmity with Him all my
life; and will He receive me at the last moment? He is too just, too righteous, Anne. I'll
not insult Him by offering Him my soul now. You asked me once, "What shall it profit a man
if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" Mine is lost--lost, and that without
remedy. This gold is a millstone about my neck.'

'Uncle,' she said, commanding her voice with a great effort, 'the thief upon the cross beside
our Lord had a shorter time than you, for he was to die at sunset that day; yet he repented
and believed in the crucified Saviour, who was able to pardon him. Christ is still waiting
to forgive; He is stretching out His arms to receive you. Only look at Him with the same penitence
and faith that the dying thief felt.'

'Nay,' groaned the dying man, 'he could show his faith by confessing Him before all those who
were crucifying the Lord, and it was a glory to the Saviour to forgive him then. But what glory
would it be to pardon me on this death-bed, where I can do nothing for Him? No; I can do nothing--nothing!
Oh, that is all! Believe on Him, and He will forgive you; and all the angels in heaven will
glorify Him for His mercy.'

'Anne,' he answered, fixing on her a look of despair, 'I cannot. My heart is hard and heavy;
I remember when it used to feel and care about these things; but it is dead now, and my soul
is lost for ever. Anne, even if Jesus is willing to pardon me, I cannot believe in forgiveness.'

Miss Anne sank down by the bedside, unable to answer him, save by a prayer, half aloud, to
God for His mercy to be shown to him, if it were possible! He lay there, helpless and hopeless,
tossing to and fro upon the pillows. At last he spoke again, in a sharp, clear, energetic tone.

'Anne, be quick!' he said; 'find me my will among those papers. Perhaps if I could do something,
I might be able to believe.'

He watched her with impatient eagerness as she turned over the precious parcel of papers which
he had rescued from the fire. There were many documents and writings belonging to the property
he had gathered together, and it was some time before she could find the will. The master tried
to take it from her, but in vain; his right hand was powerless.

'Oh, I forgot!' he cried despairingly; 'this hand is useless, and I cannot alter it now. God
will not let me undo the mischief I have done. Anne, I have left Fern's Hollow away from you
to my brother Thomas, lest you should restore it to Stephen; and now I can do nothing! Oh,
misery, misery! The robbery and murder of the fatherless children rest upon my soul. Send quickly,
Anne, send for Stephen Fern.'

Miss Anne sent a messenger to hasten Stephen; and after that the master lay perfectly still,
with closed eyes, as if he were treasuring up the little strength remaining to him. The last
sunset was over, and the night-lamp was lighted once more; while Miss Anne sat beside him watching,
in an agony of prayer to God. There was no sound to be heard, for every one in the house knew
that the old man was dying, and they kept a profound quietness throughout all the rooms. He
had taken no notice of anything since he asked for Stephen; but when a light rap was heard
at the door he opened his eyes, and turned his grey head round anxiously to see whether he
was come.

It was Stephen. He stood within the doorway, not liking to enter farther, but looking straight
forward at the master with a very pale and sorrowful face, upon which there was no trace of
triumph or hatred. Miss Anne gazed earnestly at him, but she did not speak; she would not place
herself between him and his dying enemy now.

'Come here, Stephen,' said the master, in a voice of hopeless agony. 'When little Nan was lying
dead, you said you would wait, and see what God could do to me. Come near, and hear, and see.
Death is nothing, boy; it will be only a glory to you to die. But God is letting loose His
terrors upon me; He is mocking at my soul, and laughing at my calamity. Soon, soon I shall
be in eternity, without hope, and without God.'

'Oh, master, master,' exclaimed Stephen, 'there is a time yet for our Father to forgive thee!
It doesn't take long to forgive! It didn't take even me long to forgive; and oh, how quickly
God can do it if you'll only ask Him!'

'Do you forgive me?' asked the master, in astonishment.

'Ah,' he cried, 'I forgave thee long since, directly after I was ill. It was God who helped
me; and wouldn't He rather forgive thee Himself? Oh, He loves thee! He taught me how to love
thee; and could He do that if He didn't love thee His own self?'

'If I could only believe in being forgiven!' said the dying man.

'Oh, believe it, dear master! See, I am here; I have forgiven thee, and I do love thee. Little
Nan can never come back, and yet I love thee, and forgive thee from my very heart. Will not
Jesus much more forgive thee?'

'Pray for me, Stephen. I wanted my steady decline concern
through reading, but given the coincidence that the only work that had been me was the history of
Bernal Diaz del Castillo, and she, far from providing entertainment, he indulged in the strangest
thoughts. I put the book and went for a walk in the meadows, until dusk. When I returned to my room
I felt feverish and went between the sheets; but only managed to reconcile a thousand times restless
and interrupted sleep. I remember that night I witnessed the bloodiest episodes of the conquest
of Mexico. Priests Aztecs opened the chest of their victims and arrancábanles the heart, still
beating, to offer the terrible Huichilobos, who presided over the largest Cu ... Constantly hear the
sound of the fight and streams of blood all over me close ... Rang in my ears the "sad sound" drum,
as Bernal Diaz, could be heard two miles away, and woke up excited. The bell of the Cathedral
rang mournfully.

       * * * * *

With the coveted Aurora, regained peace of mind. I worked all day in the file the Cabildo,
where I find the documents he sought, and I even forget strange events
on Thursday.

But to get to my room in the afternoon, I found that I was waiting there the Father Montero.
Seeing him again I felt ashamed and guilty.

- Hello!

I said, to prove that peace of mind. How nice to see you!

Want we take a walk along the banks of the river before it gets dark?

- Rafael, said, ignoring my question. Do you remember the parrot Huichilobos you saw yesterday?

-
Yes, I said almost as a challenge. "It was discovered and the perpetrator of the attack?

- That would not be easy in such a short space of time. What I tell you, because I trust at your
discretion, is this: Know that His Eminence, who is active man sent
a message yesterday to the Court, to come at once one of the best
jewelers and sooner would restore the damage caused to the parrot.

It came in the noon train and Dean, the Treasurer and I have gone this afternoon to pick up the gem
to give it, but calculated what would be our surprise, when you open the hood and see that the
parrot has disappeared! How could the thief get there, no one can explain.

Instinctively we had approached the window, for the sunset promised to be beautiful that afternoon.
Gargoyles and other protruding parts of the huge cathedral had already Profiles fire, and the treetops
of the plaza and up the hydrangeas from my balcony started to carmine
dye.

Suddenly, my friend uttered a cry of surprise.

Looking towards the place feverishly pointed out, I saw the Huichilobos Papagayo, within walking
distance of us, perched on a ledge of the tower.

- It's identical! he exclaimed.

- No, I said quite calmly. Is the same. He is alive, but has broken
the left wing.

I I have broken himself.

Montero Father looked at me strangely and I saw his lips quivering were to ask a question; but
at the time the bird moved its wings, which gleamed in the light of sunset, as if falling a
cascade of stones in a fire, and handed the flight in our direction.

Wine sit back on the railing of the balcony. Yes, was there Huichilobos Papagayo, within our
hands, we dared not touch it! We held our breath and we moved for
a long period of time, fascinated by the unexpected event.

I know not what supreme effort of will, Father Montero attempted to seize him suddenly. But the
bird escaped from his hands, and handed the flight to the West. I
stayed entranced, watching the bird away in the air, slowly and majestically,
becoming in tiny point of light disappear into the distance as the
sun sank in the horizon.

By turning his head, warned that the Father
Montero stood motionless with his eyes on the open palm of your hand.
It shone four rubies emeralds and three large.

INDEX

BRONZE DOOR
Similia similibus PRACTICAL MAN OLD MASTER'S CHEST IMAGO Tristis CHESS
PLAYERS HAT TIBOTÚ KING OF THE FRAY REPORTAZGO BALTASAR THE PARROT
Huichilobos OF CONTENTS

'In this case, Stephen,' Mr. Lockwood went on, 'you will have a yearly income of £20, and we
would like to hear what you will do with it?'

'There's grandfather,' said Stephen diffidently.

'Right, my boy!' cried Mr. Lockwood, with a smile of satisfaction; 'well, Miss Anne thinks
he would be very comfortable with Mrs. Thompson, and she would be glad of a little money with
him. But he cannot live much longer, Stephen; he is very aged, and the doctor thinks he will
hardly get over the autumn. So we had better settle what shall be done after grandfather is gone.'

'Sir,' said Stephen, 'I think Martha should have some good of grandmother's work, if she is
only a girl. So hadn't the rent better be saved up for her till I'm old enough to come and
manage the farm myself?'

Every face in the room glowed with approbation of Stephen's suggestion; and Martha flushed
crimson at the very thought of possessing so much money; and visions of future greatness, more
than her grandmother had foreseen, passed before her mind.

'Why, Martha will be quite an heiress!' said Mr. Lockwood. 'So she is provided for, and grandfather.
And what do you intend to do with yourself, Stephen, till you come back here?'

'I'm strong enough to go back to the pit,' replied Stephen bravely, though inwardly he shrank
from it; but how else could the rent of Fern's Hollow be laid by for Martha? 'Now Miss Anne
has raised the wages, I should get eight shillings a week, and more as I grow older. I shall
do for myself very nicely, thank you, sir; and maybe I could lodge with grandfather at Mrs.
Thompson's.'

'No,' said Miss Anne, in her gentle voice, the sweetest voice in the world to Stephen, now
little Nan's was silent; 'Stephen is my dear friend, and he must let me act the part of a friend
towards him. I wish to send him to live with a good man whom I know, the manager of one of
the great works at Netley, where he may learn everything that will be necessary to become my
bailiff. I shall want a true, trustworthy agent to look after my interests here, and in a few
years Stephen will be old enough to do this for me. He shall attend a good school for a few
hours daily, to gain a fitting education; and then what servant could I find more faithful,
more true, and more loving than my dear friend Stephen? He can come back here then, if he chooses,
and perhaps have Martha for his housekeeper, in their old home at Fern's Hollow.'

'Oh, Miss Anne!' cried Stephen, 'I cannot bear it! May I really be your servant all my life?'
and the boy's voice was lost in sobs.

'Come, Stephen,' said the lord of the manor, 'I want you to show us some of your old haunts
on the hills. If Miss Anne had not formed a better plan, I should have proposed making you
my gamekeeper; for Jones has been telling me about the grouse last year. By the way, if I had
thought it would be any pleasure to you, I should have dismissed him from my service for his
share in this business; but I knew you would be for begging him in again, so I only told him
pretty strongly what a sneak I thought him.'

They went out then across the uplands, a sunny ramble, to all Stephen's favourite places. And
it happened that when they reached the solitary yew-tree near which Snip was buried, all the
rest strolled on, and left Stephen and Miss Anne alone. Before them, down at the foot of the
mountains, there stretched a wide plain many miles across, beautiful with woods and streams;
and on the far horizon there hung a light cloud that was always to be seen there, the index
of those great works where Stephen was to dwell for some years. Neither hunger
or cold were able to finish in one night alone with a life so hard to crack as the Pepazo. No
one doubted, and the caravan began the ascent of the mountains caring for nothing else that a
firm step and save time. A band of bilberry-gatherers was
coming down the hill with songs and shouts of laughter; and the frightened flocks of sheep
stood motionless on the hillocks, ready to flee away in a moment at their approach. Both Miss
Anne and Stephen felt a crowd of thoughts, sorrowful and happy, come thronging to their minds.

'Stephen,' said Miss Anne solemnly, 'our Lord says, "When ye shall have done all those things
which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done that which was our
duty to do."'

'Yes, Miss Anne,' said Stephen, looking up inquiringly into his teacher's face.

'My dear boy,' she continued, 'are you taking care to say to yourself, "I am an unprofitable
servant"?'

'I have not done all those things which are commanded me,' he said simply and earnestly; 'I've
done nothing of myself yet. It's you that have taught me, Miss Anne; and God has helped me
to learn. I'm afeared partly of going away to Netley; but if you're not there to keep me right,
God is everywhere.'

'Stephen,' Miss Anne said, 'you have forgiven all your enemies: Tim, who is now your friend,
and the gamekeeper, Black Thompson, and my poor uncle; when you are saying the Lord's Prayer,
do you feel as if you should be satisfied for our Father to forgive you your trespasses in
the same measure and in the same manner as you have forgiven their trespasses against you?'

'Oh no!' cried Stephen, in a tone of some alarm. Known starting point pepazo behind their mares, and a certain fondness that they site and other
sites have a certain high, and once placed browsers on that land, even questioned the direction they
had taken a fleeing and the other chasing for "shortcut." By a foot of snow more or less kept pepazo
returning to his home, far away that it was very dark and it was night; and not come back was a
sign that when he realized that it was snowing hard and thought about turning around, the
snow depth and did not lose half a yard, which could not have occurred, according to opinion
of those who had seen "the air of snow" that night, before half past eight or nine.
 And you recollect my uncle as
him who drove you away from your own home, and was the cause of little Nan's death. Their offences
are forgiven fully, but not forgotten.'

'Can I forget?' murmured Stephen.

'No,' she replied; 'but do you not see that we clothe our enemies with their faults against
us? Should our Father do so, should we stand before Him bearing in His sight all our sins,
would that forgiveness content us, Stephen?'

'Oh no!' he cried again. 

Prince came to his palace with the first shadows of night. While climbing the stairs of honor,
he felt faint and had fallen to the ground, if not supported on the pedestal of a statue that
decorated the first break. And again: "For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their
iniquities will I remember no more." This is the forgiveness of our Father, Stephen.'

'Oh, how different to mine!' cried Stephen, hiding his face in his hands.

But the dusk was gathering, and the others were returning to them under the old yew-tree, for
there was the long ride over the hills to Danesford, and the time for parting was come. The
day was done; and on the morrow new work must be entered upon. The path of the commandments
had yet to be trodden, step by step, through temptation and conflict, and weakness and weariness,
until the end was reached.

Stephen felt something of this as he walked home for the last time to the cinder-hill cabin;
and, taking down the old Bible covered with green baize, read aloud to his grandfather and
Martha the chapter his father had taught him on his death-bed; bending his head in deep and
humble prayer after he had read the last verse: 'Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father
in heaven is perfect.'

THE END. There were those who spoke quietly of subtle poisons brought from America
and someone pointed out, at full chat, the Portinaris descended from Cesar Borgia. Upon the death
of the bishop and opened his will, it was learned he had bequeathed
all his property to Don Fabrizio. Pilgrim Street.
A Thorny Path. Enoch Roden's Training. In the Hollow of His Hand.

The Religious Tract Society, London.

