It is of special encouragement to such of us as painfully realize our meagre equipment for
reaching a high plane of self-control, to learn that Epicurus was by nature delicate and sensitive.
At seven years of age, we are told, he could not support himself on tiptoe, and called himself
the feeblest of boys. It is said that in his boyhood he had to be lifted from his chair, that
he could not look on the sun or a fire, and that his skin was so tender as to prevent his wearing
any dress beyond a simple tunic. These physical characteristics suggest the makings of a first
class "fuss" and inveterate worrier. In this event his emancipation from such tendencies must
have been due to the practice of his own philosophy.

As an antidote for the fear of death and the miraculous in the heavens Epicurus urges the study
of Nature, showing his appreciation of the fact that one thought can only be driven out by
another, as well as of the importance of the open air treatment of depressing fears.

That he recognized the doubting folly and its evils is shown by the following Maxim for the
Wise man:

"He shall be steady in his opinion and not wavering and doubtful in everything."

To the hypochondriac he said:

"Health in the opinion of some is a precious thing; others rank it among the indifferent." Again:

"If the body be attacked by a violent pain the evil soon has an end; if, on the contrary, the
pain be languishing and of long duration it is sensible beyond all doubt of some pleasure therefrom.
Thus, most chronical distempers have intervals that afford us more satisfaction and ease than
the distempers we labor under cause pain." And further:

"The Wise man takes care to preserve the unequivocable blessing of an undisturbed and quiet
mind even amidst the groans and complaints which excess of pain extorts from him." He states,
again, that one can be happy though blind.

Regarding insomnia, he recognized the futility of expecting restful sleep to follow a day of
fret and worry. He says:

"He shall enjoy the same tranquility in his sleep as when awake."

Epicurus realized that the apparent inability of the old to acquire new habits is due rather
to lack of attention, and to indifference or preoccupation, than to lack of aptitude. He placed,
in fact, no limit to the age for learning new methods, stating in his letter to Meneceus,--

"Youth is no obstacle to the study of philosophy--neither ought we to be ashamed to concentrate
our later years to the labor of speculation. Man has no time limit for learning, and ought
never to want strength to cure his mind of all the evils that afflict it."

Epicurus does not counsel seclusion for the cultivation of tranquility, but holds that mental
equipoise "may be maintained though one mingles with the world, provided he keeps within the
bounds of temperance, and limits his desires to what is easily obtained."

Curiously enough, in view of the idea of epicureanism which has become proverbial, Epicurus
regards the avoidance of excess a logical and necessary step toward the tranquil life, and
among other admonitions is found the following Maxim:

"The Wise man ought never to drink to excess, neither must he spend the nights revelling and
feasting."

We may conclude our selection from the Maxims of Epicurus by one which strikes a body-blow
at worry and the allied faulty mental habits:

"That being who is happy and immortal is in no way solicitous or uneasy on any account, neither
does he torment or tease others; anger is unworthy of his greatness ... for all these things
are the property of weakness."

Such then, was the real Epicurus, not a seeker after effeminate luxury, but a chaste and frugal
philosopher, serene of mien, and of gentle disposition, firm in his friendships, but sacrificing
to them none of the high ideals which characterized his thought. He erred, doubtless, in the
avoidance of responsibilities and in narrowing his efforts to promoting the happiness of his
own immediate circle, but he was fearless in the defence of his principles and steadfast in
the pursuit of the tranquility which for him included truth.

III.

MARCUS AURELIUS

Such a body of teachers distinguished by their acquirements and character will hardly be collected
again; and as to the pupil, we have not had another like him since.

Long.

Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, the philosopher-Emperor, showed by practice as well as by precept
that the tranquil mind is not incompatible with a life of action. Destined from birth to stand
at the head of a great empire engaged in distant wars, threatened by barbaric invasion, and
not without internal dissention, he was prepared not only to command armies but to govern himself.
Fortunately we are not without a clue to his methods--he not only had the best of teachers,
but continued his training all through his life. When we consider his labors, the claim of
the busy man of to-day that he has "no time" seems almost frivolous.

The thoughts of Marcus Aurelius (of which the following citations are from Long's translation)
were written, not for self exploration, nor from delight in rounded periods, but for his own
guidance. That he was in fact guided by his principles no better illustration offers than his
magnanimity toward the adherents of one who would have usurped the throne of the Caesars.

It is with the ethical side of the philosophy of Marcus Aurelius that we are concerned, and
with that portion only which bears on the question of mental equipoise.

These quotations will serve to show the trend of the reflections of this remarkable man. After
reviewing this epitome of ethical philosophy I might stop and counsel the worrier to study
the thoughts of Marcus Aurelius and other philosophers, whose practical suggestions are similar,
notwithstanding their diversity of views regarding the ultimate object of the training. I shall
venture, however, to elaborate the subject from the present view-point, even though the principles
of Marcus Aurelius are as applicable now as they were in the days of the Roman Empire.

No reminder is needed of the wealth and efficacy of suggestion in the Book which contains the
statement that "the Kingdom of God is within you," and that "A merry heart doeth good like
a medicine; but a broken spirit drieth the bones."

IV.

ANALYSIS OF WORRY

Of these points the principal and most urgent is that which reaches the passions; for passion
is produced no otherwise than by a disappointment of one's desires and an incurring of one's
aversions. It is this which introduces perturbations, tumults, misfortunes, and calamities;
this is the spring of sorrow, lamentation and envy; this renders us envious and emulous, and
incapable of hearing reason.

Epictetus.

Under this rather pretentious title an attempt is made to indicate certain elements of worry.
No claim is made that the treatment of the subject is exhaustive.

The motto "Don't Worry" has inspired many homilies. But the mere resolve to follow this guide
to happiness will no more instantaneously free one from the meshes of worry than the resolve
to perform a difficult gymnastic feat will insure its immediate accomplishment.

The evils of worry as well as of its frequent associate, anger, have been dwelt upon by writers
philosophical, religious, and medical. "Worry," says one author, "is the root of all cowardly
passions,--jealousy, fear, the belittling of self, and all the introspective forms of depression
are the children of worry." The symptoms and the evil results seem to receive more elaborate
and detailed attention than the treatment. "Eliminate it," counsels this writer; "Don't worry,"
advises another. "Such advice is superficial," says their critic, "it can only be subdued by
our ascending into a higher atmosphere, where we are able to look down and comprehend the just
proportions of life." "Cultivate a quiet and peaceful frame of mind," urges another; and still
another advises us to "occupy the mind with better things, and the best--is a habit of confidence
and repose."

From such counsel the average individual succeeds in extracting nothing tangible. The last
writer of those I have quoted comes perhaps the nearest to something definite in directing
us to occupy the mind with better things; in the suggestions I have to offer the important
feature is the effort to replace one thought by another, though not necessarily by a better
one. If we succeed in doing this, we are making a step toward acquiring the habit of confidence
and repose.

The simple admonition not to worry is like advising one not to walk awkwardly who has never
learned to walk otherwise. If we can find some of the simpler elements out of which worry is
constructed, and can learn to direct our attack against these, the proposition "Don't worry"
will begin to assume a tangible form.

We can at least go back one step, and realize that it is by way of the unduly insistent thought
that most of these faulty mental habits become established. It might be claimed that fear deserves
first mention, but the insistent thought in a way includes fear, and in many cases is independent
of it.

The insistent thought magnifies by concentration of attention, and by repetition, the origin
of the worry. If my thoughts dwell on my desire for an automobile this subject finally excludes
all others, and the automobile becomes, for the time being, the most important thing in the
world, hence I worry. Into this worry comes no suggestion of fear--this emotion would be more
appropriate, perhaps, if I acquired the automobile and attempted to run it. If, now, I have
trained myself to concentrate my attention elsewhere before such thoughts become coercive,
the automobile quickly assumes its proper relation to other things, and there is no occasion
for worry. This habit of mind once acquired regarding the unessentials of life, it is remarkable
how quickly it adapts itself to really important matters.

Take a somewhat more serious question. I fear I may make a blunder. If I harbor the thought,
my mind is so filled with the disastrous consequences of the possible blunder that I finally
either abandon the undertaking or approach it with a trepidation that invites failure. If,
on the other hand, I have learned to say that even if I make a blunder it will only add to
my experience, then apply myself whole-minded to the task, I have made a direct attack on worry.

The qualification unduly is not to be forgotten; a certain discrimination must be exercised
before entirely condemning the insistent thought. The insistent thought that one's family must
be fed is not a morbid sign. In fact, he also errs who can eliminate this thought and enjoy
the ball game. It is not for the deviate of this type that I am writing. Nevertheless, the
over-solicitous victim of the "New England Conscience" can almost afford to take a few lessons
from the ne'er-do-weel.

The practical bearing of this attempt to analyze worry is obvious. If it is through the insistent
desire for an automobile that I worry, I must bring my training to bear, not on the worry,
which is elusive, but on the desire, which is definite. I must fortify myself with what philosophy
I can acquire, and must console myself with such compensations as my situation may offer; and
above all, I must get busy, and occupy hands and brain with something else. If, on my travels,
I worry over the sluggish movement of the train, it is because of the insistent thought that
I must arrive on time. In this event I should practice subduing the insistent thought, rather
than vaguely direct my efforts against the worry. In the majority of cases I can bring myself
to realize that the question of my arrival is not vital. Even in case I am missing an important
engagement I may modify the dominance of the thought by reflecting that I cannot expect to
be wholly immune from the misfortunes of mankind; it is due me, at least once in a lifetime,
to miss an important engagement,--why fret because this happens to be the appointed time? Why
not occupy my thoughts more profitably than in rehearsing the varied features of this unavoidable
annoyance?

If we fret about the weather it is because of an insistent desire that the weather shall conform
to our idea of its seasonableness. If we complain of the chill of May it is not because the
cold is really unbearable, but because we wonder if spring will ever come. If we fume on a
hot day in July it is because the weather is altogether too seasonable to suit us.

We spend far too much thought on the weather, a subject that really deserves little attention
except by those whose livelihood and safety depend upon it. Suppose a runaway passes the window
at which we are sitting, with collar off, handkerchief to our heated brow, squirming to escape
our moist and clinging garments, and being generally miserable. We rush out of doors to watch
his course, and for the next few minutes we do not know whether it is hot or cold, perspiring
less during our exertions, I strongly suspect, than we did while sitting in the chair. At all
events, it is obvious that our thoughts played quite as great a part in our discomfort as did
the heat of the day.

Suppose now, instead of devoting all our attention to the weather we should reason somewhat
as follows:

As long as I live on this particular planet, I shall be subject perhaps three days out of four,
to atmospheric conditions which do not suit me. Is it worth my while to fret during those three
days and to make it up by being elated on the fourth? Why not occupy myself with something
else and leave the weather for those who have no other resource? Or, as someone has said, why
not "make friends with the weather?" If one will cultivate this frame of mind he will be surprised
to find that a certain physical relief will follow. In the first place, he will lessen the
excessive perspiration which is the invariable accompaniment of fret, and which in its turn
produces more discomfort than the heat itself.

We have selected, so far, the comparatively unimportant sources of mental discomfort, fret,
and worry. The reader who can truthfully say that such annoyances play no part in his mental
tribulations may pass them and accept congratulations. The reader who cannot be thus congratulated,
but who is impatient to attack the major sources of worry, must be reminded at this point that
he must practice on the little worries before he can accomplish anything with the great. The
method is the same. The philosophy that will make us content with the weather will do something
toward establishing the mental poise which shall enable us to withstand with comparative equanimity
the most tragic of misfortunes that may fall to our lot.

To draw an example from the more serious disorders, let us consider the hypochondriac, who
harbors the insistent thought that he must be always perfectly well, that each of his sensations
must conform to his ideal, and that each function must follow regulations imposed by himself.
If he can learn to ignore this thought by realizing that an acute illness is preferable to
life-long mental captivity; if he can learn to do what others do, and to concentrate his energies
on outside affairs which shall displace the question of health; if he can learn to say "What
I am doing is more important than how I am feeling;" he will have cured his hypochondria.

