LA MERE BAUCHE from "Tales from All Countries"

The Pyreneean valley in which the baths of Vernet are situated is not much known to English,
or indeed to any travellers.  Tourists in search of good hotels and picturesque beauty combined,
do not generally extend their journeys to the Eastern Pyrenees.  They rarely get beyond Luchon;
and in this they are right, as they thus end their peregrinations at the most lovely spot among
these mountains, and are as a rule so deceived, imposed on, and bewildered by guides, innkeepers,
and horse-owners, at this otherwise delightful place, as to become undesirous of further travel.
Nor do invalids from distant parts frequent Vernet.  People of fashion go to the Eaux Bonnes
and to Luchon, and people who are really ill to Bareges and Cauterets. It is at these places
that one meets crowds of Parisians, and the daughters and wives of rich merchants from Bordeaux,
with an admixture, now by no means inconsiderable, of Englishmen and Englishwomen.  But the
Eastern Pyrenees are still unfrequented.  And probably they will remain so; for though there
are among them lovely valleys--and of all such the valley of Vernet is perhaps the most lovely--they
cannot compete with the mountain scenery of other tourists-loved regions in Europe.  At the
Port de Venasquez and the Breche de Roland in the Western Pyrenees, or rather, to speak more
truly, at spots in the close vicinity of these famous mountain entrances from France into Spain,
one can make comparisons with Switzerland, Northern Italy, the Tyrol, and Ireland, which will
not be injurious to the scenes then under view.  But among the eastern mountains this can rarely
be done.  The hills do not stand thickly together so as to group themselves; the passes from
one valley to another, though not wanting in altitude, are not close pressed together with
overhanging rocks, and are deficient in grandeur as well as loveliness.  And then, as a natural
consequence of all this, the hotels--are not quite as good as they should be.

But there is one mountain among them which can claim to rank with the Pic du Midi or the Maledetta.
No one can pooh-pooh the stern old Canigou, standing high and solitary, solemn and grand, between
the two roads which run from Perpignan into Spain, the one by Prades and the other by Le Boulon.
Under the Canigou, towards the west, lie the hot baths of Vernet, in a close secluded valley,
which, as I have said before, is, as far as I know, the sweetest spot in these Eastern Pyrenees.

The frequenters of these baths were a few years back gathered almost entirely from towns not
very far distant, from Perpignan, Narbonne, Carcassonne, and Bezieres, and the baths were not
therefore famous, expensive, or luxurious; but those who believed in them believed with great
faith; and it was certainly the fact that men and women who went thither worn with toil, sick
with excesses, and nervous through over-care, came back fresh and strong, fit once more to
attack the world with all its woes.  Their character in latter days does not seem to have changed,
though their circle of admirers may perhaps be somewhat extended.

In those days, by far the most noted and illustrious person in the village of Vernet was La
Mere Bauche.  That there had once been a Pere Bauche was known to the world, for there was
a Fils Bauche who lived with his mother; but no one seemed to remember more of him than that
he had once existed.  At Vernet he had never been known.  La Mere Bauche was a native of the
village, but her married life had been passed away from it, and she had returned in her early
widowhood to become proprietress and manager, or, as one may say, the heart and soul of the
Hotel Bauche at Vernet.

