This was the rock he split on, upon his first appearance in the world, and just got clear of
his guardians. For, as soon as he came to town, some bishops, and clergymen, and other persons
most eminent for learning and parts, got him among them, from whom though he were fortunately
dragged by a lady and the Court, yet he could never wipe off the stain, nor wash out the tincture
of his University acquirements and dispositions.

To this another misfortune was added; that it pleased God to endow him with great natural talents,
memory, judgment, comprehension, eloquence, and wit. And, to finish the work, all these were
fortified even in his youth, with the advantages received by such employments as are best fitted
both to exercise and polish the gifts of nature and education; having been Ambassador in several
Courts when his age would hardly allow him to take a degree, and made principal Secretary of
State, at a period when, according to custom, he ought to have been busied in losing his money
at a chocolate-house, or in other amusements equally laudable and epidemic among persons of honour.

I cannot omit another weak side in his Excellency, for it is known, and can be proved upon
him, that Greek and Latin books might be found every day in his dressing-room, if it were carefully
searched; and there is reason to suspect, that some of the said books have been privately conveyed
to him by Tory hands. I am likewise assured, that he hath been taken in the very fact of reading
the said books, even in the midst of a session, to the great neglect of public affairs.[146]

I own there may be some grounds for this charge, because I have it from good hands, that when
his Excellency is at dinner with one or two scholars at his elbows, he grows a most unsupportable,
and unintelligible companion to all the fine gentlemen round the table.

I cannot deny that his Excellency lies under another great disadvantage. For, with all the
accomplishments above-mentioned, adding that of a most comely and graceful person, and during
the prime of youth, spirits, and vigor, he hath in a most unexemplary manner led a regular
domestic life, discovers a great esteem, and friendship, and love for his lady, as well as
a true affection for his children; and when he is disposed to admit an entertaining evening
companion, he doth not always enough reflect whether the person may possibly in former days
have lain under the imputation of a Tory; nor at such times do the natural or affected fears
of Popery and the Pretender make any part of the conversation; I presume, because neither Homer,
Plato, Aristotle, nor Cicero have made any mention of them.

These I freely acknowledge to be his Excellency's failings: Yet I think it is agreed by philosophers
and divines, that some allowance ought to be given to human infirmity, and the prejudices of
a wrong education.

I am well aware how much my sentiments differ from the orthodox opinion of one or two principal
patriots, (at the head of whom I name with honour Pistorides.[147]) For these have decided
the matter directly against me, by declaring that no person who was ever known to lie under
the suspicion of one single Tory principle, or who had been once seen at a great man's levee
in the worst of times,[148] should be allowed to come within the verge of the Castle; much
less to bow in the antechamber, appear at the assemblies, or dance at a birth-night. However,
I dare assert, that this maxim hath been often controlled, and that on the contrary a considerable
number of early penitents have been received into grace, who are now an ornament, happiness,
and support to the nation.

Neither do I find any murmuring on some other points of greater importance, where this favourite
maxim is not so strictly observed.

To instance only in one. I have not heard that any care hath hitherto been taken to discover
whether Madam Violante[149] be a Whig or Tory in her principles, or even that she hath ever
been offered the oaths to the Government; on the contrary I am told that she openly professes
herself to be a high-flyer, and it is not improbable, by her outlandish name she may also be
a Papist in her heart; yet we see this illustrious and dangerous female openly caressed by
principal persons of both parties, who contribute to support her in a splendid manner, without
the least apprehensions from a grand jury, or even from Squire Hartley Hutcheson himself, that
zealous prosecutor of hawkers and libels.[150] And as Hobbes wisely observes, so much money
being equivalent to so much power, it may deserve considering with what safety such an instrument
of power ought to be trusted in the hands of an alien, who hath not given any legal security
for her good affection to the government.

I confess, there is one evil which I could wish our friends would think proper to redress.
There are many Whigs in this Kingdom of the old-fashioned stamp, of whom we might make very
good use; They bear the same loyalty with us, to the Hanoverian family, in the person of King
George II.; the same abhorrence of the Pretender, with the consequent of Popery and slavery;
and the same indulgence to tender consciences; but having nothing to ask for themselves, and
consequently the more leisure to think for the public, they are often apt to entertain fears,
and melancholy prospects concerning the state of their country, the decay of trade, the want
of money, the miserable condition of the people, with other topics of like nature, all which
do equally concern both Whig and Tory, who if they have anything to lose must be equally sufferers.
Perhaps one or two of these melancholy gentlemen will sometimes venture to publish their thoughts
in print: Now I can by no means approve our usual custom of cursing and railing at this species
of thinkers under the names of Tories, Jacobites, Papists, libellers, rebels, and the like.

This was the utter ruin of that poor, angry, bustling, well-meaning mortal Pistorides, who
lies equally under the contempt of both parties, with no other difference than a mixture of
pity on one side, and of aversion on the other.

How hath he been pelted, pestered, and pounded by one single wag, who promiseth never to forsake
him living or dead![151]

I was much pleased with the humour of a surgeon in this town, who having in his own apprehension,
received some great injustice from the Earl of Galway,[152] and despairing of revenge, as well
as relief, declared to all his friends that he had set apart a hundred guineas to purchase
the Earl's carcase from the sexton, whenever it should die; to make a skeleton of the bones,
stuff the hide, and shew them for threepence; and thus get vengeance for the injuries he had
suffered by the owner.

Of the like spirit too often is that implacable race of wits, against whom there is no defence
but innocence, and philosophy: Neither of which is likely to be at hand; and therefore the
wounded have nowhere to fly for a cure, but to downright stupidity, a crazed head, or a profligate
contempt of guilt and shame.

I am therefore sorry for that other miserable creature Traulus,[153] who although of somewhat
a different species, yet seems very far to outdo even the genius of Pistorides, in that miscarrying
talent of railing without consistency or discretion, against the most innocent persons, according
to the present situation of his gall and spleen. I do not blame an honest gentleman for the
bitterest invectives against one to whom he professeth the greatest friendship; provided he
acts in the dark, so as not to be discovered. But in the midst of caresses, visits, and invitations,
to run into the streets, or to as public a place, and without the least pretended excitement,
sputter out the basest and falsest accusations; then to wipe his mouth, come up smiling to
his friend, shake him by the hand, and tell him in a whisper, it was "all for his service;"
this proceeding, I am bold to think a great failure in prudence; and I am afraid lest such
a practitioner, with a body so open, so foul, and so full of sores, may fall under the resentment
of an incensed political surgeon, who is not in much renown for his mercy upon great provocation:
who without waiting for his death, will flay, and dissect him alive, and to the view of mankind
lay open all the disordered cells of his brain, the venom of his tongue, the corruption of
his heart, and spots and flatuses of his spleen--And all this for threepence.[154]

In such a case what a scene would be laid open! and to drop my metaphor what a character of
our mistaking friend might an angry enemy draw and expose! particularizing that unnatural conjunction
of vices and follies, so inconsistent with each other in the same breast: Furious and fawning,
scurrilous and flattering, cowardly and provoking, insolent and abject; most profligately false,
with the strongest professions of sincerity, positive and variable, tyrannical and slavish.

I apprehend that if all this should be set out to the world by an angry Whig of the old stamp,
the unavoidable consequence must be a confinement of our friend for some months more to his
garret, and thereby depriving the public for so long a time, and in so important a juncture,
of his useful talents in their service, while he is fed like a wild beast through a hole; but
I hope with a special regard to the quantity and quality of his nourishment.

In vain would his excusers endeavour to palliate his enormities, by imputing them to madness:[155]
Because, it is well known, that madness only operates by inflaming and enlarging the good or
evil dispositions of the mind: For the curators of Bedlam assure us, that some lunatics are
persons of honour, truth, benevolence, and many other virtues, which appear in their highest
ravings, although after a wild incoherent manner; while others on the contrary, discover in
every word and action the utmost baseness and depravity of human minds; which infallibly they
possessed in the same degree, although perhaps under a better regulation, before their entrance
into that academy.

But it may be objected, that there is an argument of much force to excuse the overflowings
of that zeal, which our friend shews or means for our cause. And it must be confessed, that
the easy and smooth fluency of his elocution bestowed on him by nature, and cultivated by continual
practice, added to the comeliness of his person, the harmony of his voice, the gracefulness
of his manner, and the decency of his dress, are temptations too strong for such a genius to
resist upon any public occasion of making them appear with universal applause: And if good
men are sometimes accused of loving their jest better than their friend, surely to gain the
reputation of the first orator in the kingdom, no man of spirit would scruple to lose all the
friends he had in the world.

It is usual for masters to make their boys declaim on both sides of an argument; and as some
kinds of assemblies are called the schools of politics, I confess nothing can better improve
political school-boys, than the art of making plausible or implausible harangues, against the
very opinion for which they resolve to determine.

So Cardinal Perron after having spoke for an hour to the admiration of all his hearers, to
prove the existence of God; told some of his intimates that he could have spoken another hour,
and much better, to prove the contrary.

I have placed this reasoning in the strongest light, that I think it will bear; and have nothing
to answer, but that allowing it as much weight as the reader shall please, it hath constantly
met with ill success in the mouth of our friend, whether for want of good luck, or good management
I suspend my judgment.

To return from this long digression. If persons in high stations have been allowed to choose
mistresses, without regard even to difference in religion, yet never incurred the least reflection
on their loyalty or their Protestantism; shall the chief governor of a great kingdom be censured
for choosing a companion, who may formerly have been suspected for differing from the orthodox
in some speculative opinions of persons and things, which cannot affect the fundamental principles
of a sound Whig?

But let me suppose a very possible case. Here is a person sent to govern Ireland, whose unfortunate
weak side it happens to be, for several reasons above-mentioned, that he hath encouraged the
attendance of one or two gentlemen distinguished for their taste, their wit, and their learning;
who have taken the oaths to his Majesty, and pray heartily for him: Yet because they may perhaps
be stigmatized as quondam Tories by Pistorides and his gang; his Excellency must be forced
to banish them under the pain and peril of displeasing the zealots of his own party; and thereby
be put into a worse condition than every common good-fellow; who may be a sincere Protestant,
and a loyal subject, and yet rather choose to drink fine ale at the Pope's head, than muddy
at the King's.

Let me then return to my supposition. It is certain, the high-flown loyalists in the present
sense of the word, have their thoughts, and studies, and tongues so entirely diverted by political
schemes, that the zeal of their principles hath eaten up their understandings; neither have
they time from their employments, their hopes, and their hourly labours for acquiring new additions
of merit, to amuse themselves with philological converse, or speculations which are utterly
ruinous to all schemes of rising in the world: What must then a great man do whose ill stars
have fatally perverted him to a love, and taste, and possession of literature, politeness,
and good sense? Our thorough-sped republic of Whigs, which contains the bulk of all hopers,
pretenders, expecters and professors, are, beyond all doubt, most highly useful to princes,
to governors, to great ministers, and to their country, but at the same time, and by necessary
consequence, the most disagreeable companions to all who have that unfortunate turn of mind
peculiar to his Excellency, and perhaps to five or six more in a nation.

I do not deny it possible, that an original or proselyte favourer of the times, might have
been born to those useless talents which in former ages qualified a man to be a poet, or a
philosopher. All I contend for is, that where the true genius of party once enters, it sweeps
the house clean, and leaves room for many other spirits to take joint possession, till the
last state of that man is exceedingly better than the first.

I allow it a great error in his Excellency that he adheres so obstinately to his old unfashionable
academic education: Yet so perverse is human nature, that the usual remedies for this evil
in others, have produced a contrary effect in him; to a degree, that I am credibly informed,
he will, as I have already hinted, in the middle of a session quote passages out of Plato,
and Pindar at his own table to some book-learned companion, without blushing, even when persons
of great stations are by.

I will venture one step further; which is, freely to confess, that this mistaken method of
educating youth in the knowledge of ancient learning and language, is too apt to spoil their
politics and principles; because the doctrine and examples of the books they read, teach them
lessons directly contrary in every point to the present practice of the world: And accordingly,
Hobbes most judiciously observes, that the writings of the Greeks and Romans made young men
imbibe opinions against absolute power in a prince, or even in a first minister, and to embrace
notions of liberty and property.

It hath been therefore a great felicity to these kingdoms, that the heirs to titles and large
estates, have a weakness in their eyes, a tenderness in their constitutions, are not able to
bear the pain and indignity of whipping; and as the mother rightly expresses it, could never
take to their book; yet are well enough qualified to sign a receipt for half a year's rent,
to put their names (rightly spelt) to a warrant, and to read pamphlets against religion and
high-flying; whereby they fill their niches, and carry themselves through the world with that
dignity which best becomes a senator, and a squire.[156]

I could heartily wish his Excellency would be more condescending to the genius of the kingdom
he governs, to the condition of the times, and to the nature of the station he fills. Yet if
it be true, what I have read in old English story-books, that one Agesilaus (no matter to the
bulk of my readers, whether I spell the names right or wrong) was caught by the parson of the
parish, riding on a hobby-horse with his children; that Socrates a heathen philosopher, was
found dancing by himself at fourscore; that a king called Cæsar Augustus (or some such name)
used to play with boys; whereof some might possibly be sons of Tories; and, that two great
men called Scipio and Lælius, (I forget their Christian names, and whether they were poets
or generals,) often played at duck and drake with smooth stones on a river. Now I say, if these
facts be true (and the book where I found them is in print) I cannot imagine why our most zealous
patriots may not a little indulge his Excellency, in an infirmity which is not morally evil,
provided he gives no public scandal (which is by all means to be avoided) I say, why he may
not be indulged twice a week to converse with one or two particular persons, and let him and
them con over their old exploded readings together, after mornings spent in hearing and prescribing
ways and means from and to his most obedient politicians, for the welfare of the kingdom; although
the said particular person or persons may not have made so public a declaration of their political
faith in all its parts, as the business of the nation requires. Still submitting my opinion
to that happy majority, which I am confident is always in the right; by whom the liberty of
the subject hath been so frequently, so strenuously, and so successfully asserted; who by their
wise counsels have made commerce to flourish, money to abound, inhabitants to increase, the
value of lands and rents to rise; and the whole island put on a new face of plenty and prosperity.

But in order to clear his Excellency, more fully from this accusation of shewing his favours
to high-flyers, Tories, and Jacobites; it will be necessary to come to particulars.

The first person of a Tory denomination to whom his Excellency gave any marks of his favour,
was Doctor Thomas Sheridan.[157] It is to be observed, that this happened so early in his Excellency's
government, as it may be justly supposed he had not been informed of that gentleman's character
upon so dangerous an article. The Doctor being well known and distinguished, for his skill
and success in the education of youth, beyond most of his profession for many years past, was
recommended to his Excellency on the score of his learning, and particularly for his knowledge
in the Greek tongue, whereof it seems his Excellency is a great admirer, although for what
reasons I could never imagine. However it is agreed on all hands, that his lordship was too
easily prevailed on by the Doctor's request, or indeed rather from the bias of his own nature,
to hear a tragedy acted in that unknown language by the Doctor's lads,[158] which was written
by some heathen author, but whether it contained any Tory or High-Church principles, must be
left to the consciences of the boys, the Doctor, and his Excellency: The only witnesses in
this case, whose testimonies can be depended upon.

It seems, his Excellency (a thing never to be sufficiently wondered at) was so pleased with
his entertainment, that some time after he gave the Doctor a church living to the value of
almost one hundred pounds a year, and made him one of his chaplains, from an antiquated notion,
that good schoolmasters ought to be encouraged in every nation, professing civility and religion.
Yet his Excellency did not venture to make this bold step without strong recommendations from
persons of undoubted principles, fitted to the times; who thought themselves bound in justice,
honour, and gratitude, to do the Doctor a good office in return for the care he had taken of
their children, or those of their friends.[159] Yet the catastrophe was terrible: For, the
Doctor in the height of his felicity and gratitude, going down to take possession of his parish,
and furnished with a few led-sermons, whereof as it is to be supposed the number was very small,
having never served a cure in the Church; he stopped at Cork to attend on his bishop; and going
to church on the Sunday following, was according to the usual civility of country clergymen,
invited by the minister of the parish to supply the pulpit. It happened to be the first of
August[160]; and the first of August happened that year to light upon a Sunday: And it happened
that the Doctor's text was in these words; "Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof;" and
lastly it happened, that some one person of the congregation, whose loyalty made him watchful
upon every appearance of danger to his Majesty's person and Government, when service was over,
gave the alarm. Notice was immediately sent up to town, and by the zeal of one man[161] of
no large dimensions of body or mind, such a clamour was raised, that we in Dublin could apprehend
no less than an invasion by the Pretender, who must be landed in the South. The result was,
that the Doctor must be struck out of the chaplains' list, and appear no more at the Castle;
yet, whether he were then, or be at this day, a Whig or a Tory, I think is a secret; only it
is manifest, that he is a zealous Hanoverian, at least in poetry,[162] and a great adorer of
the present Royal Family through all its branches. His friends likewise assert, that he had
preached this same sermon often, under the same text; that not having observed the words till
he was in the pulpit, and had opened his notes; as he is a person a little abstracted, he wanted
presence of mind to change them: And that in the whole sermon there was not a syllable relating
to Government or party, or to the subject of the day.

In this incident there seems to have been an union of events, that will probably never happen
again to the end of the world, or at least like the grand conjunction in the heavens, which
I think they say can arrive but once in twenty thousand years.

The second gentleman (if I am right in my chronology) who under the suspicion of a Tory, received
some favour from his Excellency, is Mr. James Stopford[163]; very strongly recommended by the
most eminent Whig in England, on the account of his learning, and virtue, and other accomplishments.
He had passed the greatest part of his youth in close study, or in travelling; and was neither
not at home, or not at leisure to trouble his thoughts about party; which I allow to be a great
omission; though I cannot honestly place him in the list of Tories, and therefore think his
Excellency may be fairly acquitted for making him Vicar of Finglass, worth about one hundred
and fifty pounds a year.

The third is Doctor Patrick Delany.[164] This divine lies under some disadvantage; having in
his youth received many civilities from a certain person then in a very high station here,[165]
for which reason I doubt the Doctor never drank his confusion since: And what makes the matter
desperate, it is now too late; unless our inquisitors will be content with drinking confusion
to his memory. The aforesaid eminent person who was a judge of all merit but party, distinguished
the Doctor among other juniors in our University, for his learning, virtue, discretion, and
good sense. But the Doctor was then in too good a situation at his college, to hope or endeavour
at a better establishment, from one who had no power to give it him.

Upon the present Lord-Lieutenant's coming over, the Doctor was named to his Excellency by a
friend,[166] among other clergy of distinction, as persons whose characters it was proper his
Excellency should know: And by the truth of which the giver would be content to stand or fall
in his Excellency's opinion; since not one of those persons were in particular friendship with
the gentleman who gave in their names. By this and some other incidents, particularly the recommendation
of the late Archbishop of Dublin,[167] the Doctor became known to his Excellency; whose fatal
turn of mind toward heathenish and outlandish books and languages, finding, as I conceive a
like disposition in the Doctor, was the cause of his becoming so domestic, as we are told he
is, at the Castle of Dublin.

Three or four years ago, the Doctor grown weary of an academic life, for some reasons best
known to the managers of the discipline in that learned society (which it may not be for their
honour to mention[168]) resolved to leave it, although by the benefit of the pupils, and his
senior-fellowship with all its perquisites, he received every year between nine hundred and
a thousand pounds.

And a small northern living, in the University's donation, of somewhat better than hundred
pounds a year, falling at the same time with the Chancellorship of Christ-Church, to about
equal the value, in the gift of his Excellency, the Doctor ventured into the world in a very
scanty condition, having squandered away all his annual income in a manner, which although
perhaps proper enough for a clergyman without a family, will not be for the advantage of his
character to discover either on the exchange, or at a banker's shop.

About two months ago, his Excellency gave the Doctor a prebend in St. Patrick's Cathedral;
which being of near the same value with either of the two former, will add a third part to
his revenues, after he shall have paid the great incumbrances upon it; so that he may now be
said to possess of Church preferments in scattered tithes, three hundred pounds a year, instead
of the like sum of infallible rents from a senior fellowship with the offices annexed; beside
the advantage of a free lodging, and some other easements.

But since the Doctor hath not in any of his writings, his sermons, his actions, his discourse,
or his company, discovered one single principle of either Whig or Tory; and that the Lord Lieutenant
still continues to admit him; I shall boldly pronounce him ONE OF US: but like a new free-mason,
who hath not yet learned all the dialect of the mystery. Neither can he justly be accused of
any Tory doctrines, except perhaps some among those few, with which that wicked party was charged,
during the height of their power; but have been since transferred for the most solid reasons,
to the whole body of our firmest friends.

I have now done with the clergy; And upon the strictest examination have not been able to find
above one of that order, against whom any party suspicion can lie, which is the unfortunate
gentleman, Doctor Sheridan, who by mere chance-medley shot his own fortune dead with a single text.

As to the laity I can hear of but one person of the Tory stamp, who since the beginning of
his Excellency's government, did ever receive any solid mark of his favour; I mean Sir Arthur
Acheson,[169] reported to be an acknowledged Tory, and what is almost as bad, a scholar into
the bargain. It is whispered about as a certain truth, that this gentleman is to have a grant
of a certain barrack upon his estate, within two miles of his own house; for which the Crown
is to be his tenant, at the rent of sixty pounds per annum; he being only at the expense of
about five hundred pounds, to put the house in repair, build stables, and other necessaries.
I will place this invidious mark of beneficence, conferred on a Tory, in a fair light, by computing
the costs and necessary defalcations; after which it may be seen how much Sir Arthur will be
annually a clear gainer by the public, notwithstanding his unfortunate principles, and his
knowledge in Greek and Latin.

  For repairs, &c. 500l. the interest whereof per ann. 30 0 0
  For all manner of poultry to furnish the troopers,
    but which the said troopers must be at the
    labour of catching, valued per ann.                   5 0 0
  For straggling sheep,                                     8 0 0
  For game destroyed five miles round,                      6 0 0
                                                          --------
                                                           49 0 0

  Rent paid to Sir Arthur,        60 0 0
    Deduct                        49 0 0
                                  ------
    Remains clear,                11 0 0
                                  ------

Thus, if Sir Arthur Acheson shall have the good fortune to obtain a grant of this barrack,
he will receive net profit annually from the Crown ELEVEN pounds sterling to help him in entertaining
the officers, and making provisions for his younger children.

It is true, there is another advantage to be expected, which may fully compensate the loss
of cattle and poultry; by multiplying the breed of mankind, and particularly of good Protestants,
in a part of the Kingdom half depopulated by the wild humour among the farmers there, of leaving
their country. But I am not so skilful in arithmetic, as to compute the value.

I have reckoned one per cent. below the legal interest for the money that Sir Arthur must expend,
and valued the damage in the other articles very moderately. However, I am confident he may
with good management be a saver at least; which is a prodigious instance of moderation in our
friends toward a professed Tory, whatever merit he may pretend by the unwillingness he hath
shewn to make his Excellency uneasy in his administration.

Thus I have with the utmost impartiality collected every single favour, (further than personal
civilities) conferred by his Excellency on Tories, and reputed Tories, since his first arrival
hither to this present 13th day of April, in the year of our Lord 1730, giving all allowance
possible to the arguments on the other side of the question.

       *       *       *       *       *

  And the account will stand thus.

Disposed of preferments and employments to Tories, or reputed Tories, by his Excellency the
Lord Lieutenant in about the space of six years.

  To Doctor Thomas Sheridan in a rectory near
    Kinsale, per ann.                            100 0 0
  To Sir Arthur Acheson, Baronet, a barrack,
    per ann.                                      11 0 0
                                                 -----------
                                                   111 0 0
                                                 -----------

Give me leave now to compute in gross the value of the favours done by his Excellency to the
true friends of their King and Country, and of the Protestant religion.

It is to be remembered, that although his Excellency cannot be properly said to bestow bishoprics,
commands in the army, the place of a judge, or commissioner in the revenue, and some others;
yet they are, for the most part, disposed upon his recommendation, except where the persons
are immediately sent from England by their interest at Court, for which I have allowed large
defalcations in the following accounts. And it is remarkable that the only considerable station
conferred on a reputed Tory since his present Excellency's government was of this latter kind.

And indeed it is but too remarkable, that in a neighbouring nation, (where that dangerous denomination
of men is incomparably more numerous, more powerful, and of consequence more formidable) real
Tories can often with much less difficulty obtain very high favours from the Government, than
their reputed brethren can arrive to the lowest in ours. I observe this with all possible submission
to the wisdom of their policy, which, however, will not I believe, dispute the praise of vigilance
with ours.

                    WHIG Account.

  To persons promoted to bishoprics, or removed
    to more beneficial ones, computed
    per ann.                                    10050 0 0
  To civil employments,                            9030 0 0
  To military commands,                            8436 0 0
                                                 -----------
                                                  27516 0 0

                   TORY Account.

  To Tories                                         111 0 0
                                                 -----------
  Balance                                         27405 0 0
                                                 -----------

I shall conclude with this observation.

BY WHICH THE NUMBER OF LANDED GENTRY AND SUBSTANTIAL FARMERS WILL BE CONSIDERABLY INCREASED,
AND NO ONE PERSON WILL BE THE POORER, OR CONTRIBUTE ONE FARTHING TO THE CHARGE.

     NOTE.

     In volume three of the present edition two tracts are given
     relating to attempts made by the bishops of Ireland for enlarging
     their powers. These tracts are entitled: "On the Bill for the
     Clergy's residing on their Livings," and "Considerations upon two
     Bills, sent down from the House of Lords and the House of Commons
     in Ireland relating to the Clergy of Ireland" (pp. 249-272). The
     bills which Swift argued against were evidently intended to give
     the bishops further powers and increased opportunities for making
     money. (The matter is gone into at length in the notes prefixed to
     the above reprints.) The bishops sought rights which would enable
     them to obtain large powers in letting leases, and their eagerness
     to get such powers, coupled with the efforts they expended, showed
     that they had less regard for the Church's interest than for their
     own.

     In the present tract Swift, with his usual assumption of grave
     consideration of an important question, but in reality with cutting
     irony, proposes to dispose of all the Church lands for a lump sum,
     give the bishops their full just share, including the amount of
     fines for possible renewals of leases, and, at the same time, pay
     off the national debt with the money that remains. With an air of
     strict seriousness he solemnly computes the exact sums obtainable,
     and impartially divides the amounts with accurate care. Then, with
     a dig at the strangers England was continually sending to Irish
     preferments, among whom he counts himself, he concludes by saying
     that although the interests of such cannot be expected to be those
     of the country to which they have been translated, yet he, as one
     of them, is quite willing, and indeed feels himself in duty bound
     "to consult the interest of people among whom I have been so well
     received. And if I can be any way instrumental toward contributing
     to reduce this excellent proposal into a law ... my sincere
     endeavours to serve this Church and kingdom will be rewarded."

       *       *       *       *       *

     The text of this pamphlet is based on that given at the end of the
     volume containing the first edition of "Considerations upon two
     Bills," etc., published in 1732.

The debts contracted some years past for the service and safety of the nation, are grown so
great, that under our present distressed condition by the want of trade, the great remittances
to pay absentees, regiments serving abroad, and many other drains of money, well enough known
and felt; the kingdom seems altogether unable to discharge them by the common methods of payment:
And either a poll or land tax would be too odious to think of, especially the latter, because
the lands, which have been let for these ten or dozen years past, were raised so high, that
the owners can, at present, hardly receive any rent at all. For, it is the usual practice of
an Irish tenant, rather than want land, to offer more for a farm than he knows he can be ever
able to pay, and in that case he grows desperate, and pays nothing at all. So that a land-tax
upon a racked estate would be a burthen wholly insupportable.

The question will then be, how these national debts can be paid, and how I can make good the
several particulars of my proposal, which I shall now lay open to the public.

The revenues of their Graces and Lordships the Archbishops and Bishops of this kingdom (excluding
the fines) do amount by a moderate computation to 36,800l. per ann. I mean the rents which
the bishops receive from their tenants. But the real value of those lands at a full rent, taking
the several sees one with another, is reckoned to be at least three-fourths more, so that multiplying
36,800l. by four, the full rent of all the bishops' lands will amount to 147,200l. per ann.
from which subtracting the present rent received by their lordships, that is 36,800l. the profits
of the lands received by the first and second tenants (who both have great bargains) will rise
to the sum of 110,400l. per ann. which lands, if they were to be sold at twenty-two years'
purchase, would raise a sum of 2,428,800l. reserving to the Bishops their present rents, only
excluding fines.[171]

Of this sum I propose, that out of the one-half which amounts to 1,214,400l. so much be applied
as will entirely discharge the debts of the nation, and the remainder laid up in the treasury,
to supply contingencies, as well as to discharge some of our heavy taxes, until the kingdom
shall be in a better condition.

But whereas the present set of bishops would be great losers by this scheme for want of their
fines, which would be hard treatment to such religious, loyal and deserving personages, I have
therefore set apart the other half to supply that defect, which it will more than sufficiently do.

A bishop's lease for the full term, is reckoned to be worth eleven years' purchase, but if
we take the bishops round, I suppose, there may be four years of each lease elapsed, and many
of the bishops being well stricken in years, I cannot think their lives round to be worth more
than seven years' purchase; so that the purchasers may very well afford fifteen years' purchase
for the reversion, especially by one great additional advantage, which I shall soon mention.

This sum of 2,428,800l. must likewise be sunk very considerably, because the lands are to be
sold only at fifteen years' purchase, and this lessens the sum to about 1,656,000l. of which
I propose twelve hundred thousand pounds to be applied partly for the payment of the national
debt, and partly as a fund for future exigencies, and the remaining 456,000l. I propose as
a fund for paying the present set of bishops their fines, which it will abundantly do, and
a great part remain as an addition to the public stock.

Although the bishops round do not in reality receive three fines a-piece, which take up 21
years, yet I allow it to be so; but then I will suppose them to take but one year's rent, in
recompense of giving them so large a term of life, and thus multiplying 36,800l. by 3 the product
will be only 110,400l. so that above three-fourths will remain to be applied to public use.

If I have made wrong computations, I hope to be excused, as a stranger to the kingdom, which
I never saw till I was called to an employment, and yet where I intend to pass the rest of
my days; but I took care to get the best information I could, and from the most proper persons;
however, the mistakes I may have been guilty of, will very little affect the main of my proposal,
although they should cause a difference of one hundred thousand pounds more or less.

These fines, are only to be paid to the bishop during his incumbency in the same see; if he
changeth it for a better, the purchasers of the vacant see lands, are to come immediately into
possession of the see he hath left, and both the bishop who is removed, and he who comes into
his place, are to have no more fines, for the removed bishop will find his account by a larger
revenue; and the other see will find candidates enough. For the law maxim will here have place,
that caveat, &c. I mean the persons who succeed may choose whether they will accept or no.

As to the purchasers, they will probably be tenants to the see, who are already in possession,
and can afford to give more than any other bidders.

I will further explain myself. If a person already a bishop, be removed into a richer see,
he must be content with the bare revenues, without any fines, and so must he who comes into
a bishopric vacant by death: And this will bring the matter sooner to bear; which if the Crown
shall think fit to countenance, will soon change the present set of bishops, and consequently
encourage purchasers of their lands. For example, If a Primate should die, and the gradation
be wisely made, almost the whole set of bishops might be changed in a month, each to his great
advantage, although no fines were to be got, and thereby save a great part of that sum which
I have appropriated towards supplying the deficiency of fines.

I have valued the bishops' lands two years' purchase above the usual computed rate, because
those lands will have a sanction from the King and Council in England, and be confirmed by
an Act of Parliament here; besides, it is well known, that higher prices are given every day,
for worse lands, at the remotest distances, and at rack rents, which I take to be occasioned
by want of trade, when there are few borrowers, and the little money in private hands lying
dead, there is no other way to dispose of it but in buying of land, which consequently makes
the owners hold it so high.

Besides paying the nation's debts, the sale of these lands would have many other good effects
upon the nation; it will considerably increase the number of gentry, where the bishops' tenants
are not able or willing to purchase; for the lands will afford an hundred gentlemen a good
revenue to each; several persons from England will probably be glad to come over hither, and
be the buyers, rather than give thirty years' purchase at home, under the loads of taxes for
the public and the poor, as well as repairs, by which means much money may be brought among
us, and probably some of the purchasers themselves may be content to live cheap in a worse
country, rather than be at the charge of exchange and agencies, and perhaps of non-solvencies
in absence, if they let their lands too high.

This proposal will also multiply farmers, when the purchasers will have lands in their own
power, to give long and easy leases to industrious husbandmen.

I have allowed some bishoprics of equal income to be of more or less value to the purchaser,
according as they are circumstanced. For instance, The lands of the primacy and some other
sees, are let so low, that they hardly pay a fifth penny of the real value to the bishop, and
there the fines are the greater. On the contrary, the sees of Meath and Clonfert, consisting,
as I am told, much of tithes, those tithes are annually let to the tenants without any fines.
So the see of Dublin is said to have many fee-farms which pay no fines, and some leases for
lives which pay very little, and not so soon nor so duly.

I cannot but be confident, that their Graces my Lords the Archbishops, and my Lords the Bishops
will heartily join in this proposal, out of gratitude to his late and present Majesty, the
best of Kings, who have bestowed such high and opulent stations, as well as in pity to this
country which is now become their own; whereby they will be instrumental towards paying the
nation's debts, without impoverishing themselves, enrich an hundred gentlemen, as well as free
them from dependence, and thus remove that envy which is apt to fall upon their Graces and
Lordships from considerable persons, whose birth and fortunes rather qualify them to be lords
of manors, than servile dependants upon Churchmen however dignified or distinguished.

If I do not flatter myself, there could not be any law more popular than this; for the immediate
tenants to bishops, being some of them persons of quality, and good estates, and more of them
grown up to be gentlemen by the profits of these very leases, under a succession of bishops,
think it a disgrace to be subject both to rents and fines, at the pleasure of their landlords.
Then the bulk of the tenants, especially the dissenters, who are our loyal Protestant brethren,
look upon it both as an unnatural and iniquitous thing that bishops should be owners of land
at all; (wherein I beg to differ from them) being a point so contrary to the practice of the
Apostles, whose successors they are deemed to be, and who although they were contented that
land should be sold, for the common use of the brethren, yet would not buy it themselves, but
had it laid at their feet, to be distributed to poor proselytes.

I will add one word more, that by such a wholesome law, all the oppressions felt by under-tenants
of Church leases, which are now laid on by the bishops would entirely be prevented, by their
Graces and Lordships consenting to have their lands sold for payment of the nation's debts,
reserving only the present rent for their own plentiful and honourable support.

I beg leave to add one particular, that, when heads of a Bill (as I find the style runs in
this kingdom) shall be brought in for forming this proposal into a law; I should humbly offer
that there might be a power given to every bishop (except those who reside in Dublin) for applying
one hundred acres of profitable land that lies nearest to his palace, as a demesne for the
conveniency of his family.

I know very well, that this scheme hath been much talked of for some time past, and is in the
thoughts of many patriots, neither was it properly mine, although I fell readily into it, when
it was first communicated to me. J. S. asks A. B. to show him the lease A. B. says he left
it at home. J. S. asks the said A. B. how many years of the lease are unexpired? what rent
the tenant pays, and how much below the rack value? and what number of acres there are upon
the farm? To each of which questions the agent A. B. answers categorically, that he cannot
tell, and that he did not think J. would ask him such questions. The said A. B. was asked how
he came two years after the lease was assigned, and not sooner, to have it registered. A. B.
answers, that he could not sue till the assignment.

Query, Whether the said agent A. B. made any one answer like a man of business?

AN

EXAMINATION

OF

CERTAIN ABUSES, CORRUPTIONS, AND ENORMITIES

IN THE CITY OF DUBLIN.

     NOTE.

     Like many of Swift's satirical writings the title of this tract is
     no indication to its subject-matter. Whatever "abuses, corruptions
     and enormities" may have been rife in the city of Dublin in Swift's
     time, the pamphlet which follows certainly throws no light on them.
     It is in no sense a social document. But it is a very amusing and
     excellent piece of jeering at the fancied apprehensions that were
     rife about the Pretender, the "disaffected" people, and the
     Jacobites. It is aimed at the Whigs, who were continually using the
     party cries of "No Popery," "Jacobitism," and the other cognate
     expressions to distress their political opponents. At the same
     time, these cries had their effects, and created a great deal of
     mischief. The Roman Catholics, in particular, were cruelly treated
     because of the anxiety for the Protestant succession, and among the
     lower tradesmen, for whom such cries would be of serious meaning, a
     petty persecution against their Roman Catholic fellow-tradesmen
     continually prevailed. Monck Mason draws attention to some curious
     instances. (See his "History of St. Patrick's Cathedral," p. 399,
     note y.)

     In the "Journals of the Irish House of Commons" (vol. ii., p. 77)
     is the record of a petition presented in the year 1695, by the
     Protestant porters of the city of Dublin, against one Darby Ryan,
     "a papist and notoriously disaffected." This Ryan was complained of
     for employing those of his own persuasion and affection to carry a
     cargo of coals he had bought, to his own customers. The petitioners
     complained that they, Protestants, were "debased and hindered from
     their small trade and gains." Another set of petitioners was the
     drivers of hackney coaches. They complained that, "before the late
     trouble, they got a livelihood by driving coaches in and about the
     city of Dublin, but since that time, so many papists had got
     coaches, and drove them with such ordinary horses, that the
     petitioners could hardly get bread.... They therefore prayed the
     house that none but Protestant hackney-coachmen may have liberty to
     keep and drive hackney-coaches." Swift may have had these instances
     in his mind when he urges that the criers who cry their wares in
     Dublin should be True Protestants, and should give security to the
     government for permission to cry.

     In a country where such absurd complaints could be seriously
     presented, and as seriously considered, a genuine apprehension must
     have existed. The Whigs in making capital out of this existing
     feeling stigmatized their Tory opponents as High Churchmen, and
     therefore very little removed from Papists, and therefore
     Jacobites. Of course there were no real grounds for such epithets,
     but they indulged in them nevertheless, with the addition of
     insinuations and suggestions--no insinuation being too feeble or
     too far-fetched so long as it served.

     Swift, writing in the person of a Whig, affects extreme anxiety for
     the most ridiculous of signs, and finds a Papist, or a Jacobite,
     or a disaffected person, in the least likely of places. The tract,
     in this light, is a really amusing piece. Swift takes the
     opportunity also to hit Walpole, under a pretended censure of his
     extravagance, corruption, and avarice.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The text here given of this tract is based on that of the original
     edition issued in Dublin in 1732. The last paragraph, however, does
     not appear in that edition, and is reprinted here from Scott.

     [T. S.]

AN

EXAMINATION

OF CERTAIN

Abuses, Corruptions,

AND

ENORMITIES

IN THE

City of DUBLIN.

Dublin: Printed in the Year 1732.

Nothing is held more commendable in all great cities, especially the metropolis of a kingdom,
than what the French call the police; by which word is meant the government thereof, to prevent
the many disorders occasioned by great numbers of people and carriages, especially through
narrow streets. In this government our famous City of Dublin is said to be very defective,
and universally complained of. Many wholesome laws have been enacted to correct those abuses,
but are ill executed; and many more are wanting, which I hope the united wisdom of the nation
(whereof so many good effects have already appeared this session) will soon take into their
most profound consideration.

As I have been always watchful over the good of mine own country, and particularly for that
of our renowned city, where (absit invidia) I had the honour to draw my first breath[173];
I cannot have a minute's ease or patience to forbear enumerating some of the greatest enormities,
abuses, and corruptions, spread almost through every part of Dublin; and proposing such remedies
as, I hope, the legislature will approve of.

The narrow compass to which I have confined myself in this paper, will allow me only to touch
at the most important defects, and such as I think seem to require the most speedy redress.

And first, perhaps there was never known a wiser institution than that of allowing certain
persons of both sexes, in large and populous cities, to cry through the streets many necessaries
of life; it would be endless to recount the conveniences which our city enjoys by this useful
invention, and particularly strangers, forced hither by business, who reside here but a short
time; for, these having usually but little money, and being wholly ignorant of the town, might
at an easy price purchase a tolerable dinner, if the several criers would pronounce the names
of the goods they have to sell, in any tolerable language. And therefore till our law-makers
shall think it proper to interpose so far as to make these traders pronounce their words in
such terms, that a plain Christian hearer may comprehend what is cried, I would advise all
new comers to look out at their garret windows, and there see whether the thing that is cried
be tripes or flummery, butter-milk or cow-heels. For, as things are now managed, how is it
possible for an honest countryman, just arrived, to find out what is meant, for instance, by
the following words, with which his ears are constantly stunned twice a day, "Mugs, jugs and
porringers, up in the garret, and down in the cellar." I say, how is it possible for any stranger
to understand that this jargon is meant as an invitation to buy a farthing's worth of milk
for his breakfast or supper, unless his curiosity draws him to the window, or till his landlady
shall inform him. I produce this only as one instance, among a hundred much worse, I mean where
the words make a sound wholly inarticulate, which give so much disturbance, and so little information.

The affirmation solemnly made in the cry of herrings, is directly against all truth and probability,
"Herrings alive, alive here." The very proverb will convince us of this; for what is more frequent
in ordinary speech, than to say of some neighbour for whom the passing-bell rings, that he
is dead as a herring. And, pray how is it possible, that a herring, which as philosophers observe,
cannot live longer than one minute, three seconds and a half out of water, should bear a voyage
in open boats from Howth to Dublin, be tossed into twenty hands, and preserve its life in sieves
for several hours. Nay, we have witnesses ready to produce, that many thousands of these herrings,
so impudently asserted to be alive, have been a day and a night upon dry land. But this is
not the worst. What can we think of those impious wretches, who dare in the face of the sun,
vouch the very same affirmative of their salmon, and cry, "Salmon alive, alive;" whereas, if
you call the woman who cries it, she is not ashamed to turn back her mantle, and shew you this
individual salmon cut into a dozen pieces. I have given good advice to these infamous disgracers
of their sex and calling, without the least appearance of remorse, and fully against the conviction
of their own consciences. I have mentioned this grievance to several of our parish ministers,
but all in vain; so that it must continue until the government shall think fit to interpose.

There is another cry, which, from the strictest observation I can make, appears to be very
modern, and it is that of sweethearts,[174] and is plainly intended for a reflection upon the
female sex, as if there were at present so great a dearth of lovers, that the women instead
of receiving presents from men, were now forced to offer money, to purchase sweethearts. Neither
am I sure, that the cry doth not glance at some disaffection against the government; insinuating,
that while so many of our troops are engaged in foreign service, and such a great number of
our gallant officers constantly reside in England, the ladies are forced to take up with parsons
and attorneys: But, this is a most unjust reflection, as may soon be proved by any person who
frequents the Castle, our public walks, our balls and assemblies, where the crowds of toupees[175]
were never known to swarm as they do at present.

There is a cry, peculiar to this City, which I do not remember to have been used in London,
or at least, not in the same terms that it has been practised by both parties, during each
of their power; but, very unjustly by the Tories. While these were at the helm, they grew daily
more and more impatient to put all true Whigs and Hanoverians out of employments. To effect
which, they hired certain ordinary fellows, with large baskets on their shoulders, to call
aloud at every house, "Dirt to carry out;" giving that denomination to our whole party, as
if they would signify, that the kingdom could never be cleansed, till we were swept from the
earth like rubbish. But, since that happy turn of times, when we were so miraculously preserved
by just an inch, from Popery, slavery, massacre, and the Pretender, I must own it prudence
in us, still to go on with the same cry, which hath ever since been so effectually observed,
that the true political dirt is wholly removed, and thrown on its proper dunghills, there to
corrupt, and be no more heard of.

But, to proceed to other enormities: Every person who walks the streets, must needs observe
the immense number of human excrements at the doors and steps of waste houses, and at the sides
of every dead wall; for which the disaffected party have assigned a very false and malicious
cause. They would have it, that these heaps were laid there privately by British fundaments,
to make the world believe, that our Irish vulgar do daily eat and drink; and, consequently,
that the clamour of poverty among us, must be false, proceeding only from Jacobites and Papists.
They would confirm this, by pretending to observe, that a British anus being more narrowly
perforated than one of our own country; and many of these excrements upon a strict view appearing
copple crowned, with a point like a cone or pyramid, are easily distinguished from the Hibernian,
which lie much flatter, and with lest continuity. I communicated this conjecture to an eminent
physician, who is well versed in such profound speculations; and at my request was pleased
to make trial with each of his fingers, by thrusting them into the anus of several persons
of both nations, and professed he could find no such difference between them as those ill-disposed
people allege. On the contrary, he assured me, that much the greater number of narrow cavities
were of Hibernian origin. This I only mention to shew how ready the Jacobites are to lay hold
of any handle to express their malice against the government. I had almost forgot to add, that
my friend the physician could, by smelling each finger, distinguish the Hibernian excrement
from the British, and was not above twice mistaken in an hundred experiments; upon which he
intends very soon to publish a learned dissertation.

There is a diversion in this City, which usually begins among the butchers, but is often continued
by a succession of other people, through many streets. It is called the COSSING of a dog; and
I may justly number it among our corruptions. The ceremony is this: A strange dog happens to
pass through a flesh-market; whereupon an expert butcher immediately cries in a loud voice,
and the proper tone, "Coss, coss," several times: The same word is repeated by the people.
The dog, who perfectly understands the terms of art, and consequently the danger he is in,
immediately flies. The people, and even his own brother animals pursue; the pursuit and cry
attend him perhaps half a mile; he is well worried in his flight, and sometimes hardly escapes.
This, our ill-wishers of the Jacobite kind, are pleased to call a persecution; and affirm,
that it always falls upon dogs of the Tory principle. But, we can well defend ourselves, by
justly alleging that when they were uppermost, they treated our dogs full as inhumanly: As
to my own part, who have in former times often attended these processions, although I can very
well distinguish between a Whig and Tory dog, yet I never carried my resentments very far upon
a party principle, except it were against certain malicious dogs, who most discovered their
malice against us in the worst of times.[176] And, I remember too well, that in the wicked
ministry of the Earl of Oxford, a large mastiff of our party being unmercifully cossed, ran,
without thinking, between my legs, as I was coming up Fishamble Street; and, as I am of low
stature, with very short legs, bore me riding backwards down the hill, for above two hundred
yards: And, although I made use of his tail for a bridle, holding it fast with both my hands,
and clung my legs as close to his sides as I could, yet we both came down together into the
middle of the kennel; where after rolling three or four times over each other, I got up with
much ado, amid the shouts and huzzas of a thousand malicious Jacobites: I cannot, indeed, but
gratefully acknowledge, that for this and many other services and sufferings, I have been since
more than over-paid.

This adventure may, perhaps, have put me out of love with the diversions of cossing, which
I confess myself an enemy to, unless we could always be sure of distinguishing Tory dogs; whereof
great numbers have since been so prudent, as entirely to change their principles, and are now
justly esteemed the best worriers of their former friends.

I am assured, and partly know, that all the chimney-sweepers' boys, where Members of Parliament
chiefly lodge, are hired by our enemies to skulk in the tops of chimneys, with their heads
no higher than will just permit them to look round; and at the usual hours when members are
going to the House, if they see a coach stand near the lodging of any loyal member, they call
"Coach, coach," as loud as they can bawl, just at the instant when the footman begins to give
the same call. And this is chiefly done on those days, when any point of importance is to be
debated. This practice may be of very dangerous consequence. For, these boys are all hired
by enemies to the government; and thus, by the absence of a few members for a few minutes,
a question may be carried against the true interest of the kingdom, and very probably, not
without any eye toward the Pretender.

I have not observed the wit and fancy of this town, so much employed in any one article, as
that of contriving variety of signs to hang over houses, where punch is to be sold. The bowl
is represented full of punch, the ladle stands erect in the middle, supported sometimes by
one, and sometimes by two animals, whose feet rest upon the edge of the bowl. These animals
are sometimes one black lion, and sometimes a couple; sometimes a single eagle, and sometimes
a spread one, and we often meet a crow, a swan, a bear, or a cock, in the same posture.

Now, I cannot find how any of these animals, either separate, or in conjunction, are properly
speaking, either fit emblems or embellishments, to advance the sale of punch. Besides, it is
agreed among naturalists, that no brute can endure the taste of strong liquor, except where
he hath been used to it from his infancy: And, consequently, it is against all the rules of
hieroglyph, to assign those animals as patrons, or protectors of punch. For, in that case,
we ought to suppose, that the host keeps always ready the real bird, or beast, whereof the
picture hangs over his door, to entertain his guest; which, however, to my knowledge, is not
true in fact. For not one of those birds is a proper companion for a Christian, as to aiding
and assisting in making the punch. For the birds, as they are drawn upon the sign, are much
more likely to mute, or shed their feathers into the liquor. Then, as to the bear, he is too
terrible, awkward, and slovenly a companion to converse with; neither are any of them at all,
handy enough to fill liquor to the company: I do, therefore, vehemently suspect a plot intended
against the Government, by these devices. For, although the spread-eagle be the arms of Germany,
upon which account it may possibly be a lawful Protestant sign; yet I, who am very suspicious
of fair outsides, in a matter which so nearly concerns our welfare, cannot but call to mind,
that the Pretender's wife is said to be of German birth: And that many Popish Princes, in so
vast an extent of land, are reported to excel both at making and drinking punch. Besides, it
is plain, that the spread-eagle exhibits to us the perfect figure of a cross, which is a badge
of Popery. Then, as to the cock, he is well known to represent the French nation, our old and
dangerous enemy. The swan, who must of necessity cover the entire bowl with his wings, can
be no other than the Spaniard, who endeavours to engross all the treasures of the Indies to
himself. The lion is indeed, the common emblem of Royal power, as well as the arms of England;
but to paint him black, is perfect Jacobitism, and a manifest type of those who blacken the
actions of the best Princes. It is not easy to distinguish, whether the other fowl painted
over the punch-bowl, be a crow or raven? It is true, they have both been held ominous birds;
but I rather take it to be the former; because it is the disposition of a crow, to pick out
the eyes of other creatures; and often even of Christians, after they are dead; and is therefore
drawn here, with a design to put the Jacobites in mind of their old practice, first to lull
us asleep, (which is an emblem of Death) and then to blind our eyes, that we may not see their
dangerous practices against the State.

To speak my private opinion, the least offensive picture in the whole set, seems to be the
bear; because he represents ursa major, or the Great Bear, who presides over the North, where
the Reformation first began, and which, next to Britain, (including Scotland and the north
of Ireland) is the great protector of the Protestant religion. But, however, in those signs
where I observe the bear to be chained, I can't help surmising a Jacobite contrivance, by which
these traitors hint an earnest desire of using all true Whigs, as the predecessors did the
primitive Christians; I mean, to represent us as bears, and then halloo their Tory dogs to
bait us to death.

Thus I have given a fair account of what I dislike, in all those signs set over those houses
that invite us to punch: I own it was a matter that did not need explaining, being so very
obvious to the most common understanding. Yet, I know not how it happens, but methinks there
seems a fatal blindness, to overspread our corporeal eyes, as well as our intellectual; and
I heartily wish, I may be found a false prophet; for, these are not bare suspicions, but manifest
demonstrations.

Therefore, away with those Popish, Jacobite, and idolatrous gew-gaws. And I heartily wish a
law were enacted, under severe penalties, against drinking any punch at all. For nothing is
easier, than to prove it a disaffected liquor. The chief ingredients, which are brandy, oranges,
and lemons, are all sent us from Popish countries; and nothing remains of Protestant growth
but sugar and water. For, as to biscuit, which formerly was held a necessary ingredient, and
is truly British, we find it is entirely rejected.

But I will put the truth of my assertion, past all doubt: I mean, that this liquor is by one
important innovation, grown of ill example, and dangerous consequence to the public. It is
well known, that, by the true original institution of making punch, left us by Captain Ratcliffe,
the sharpness is only occasioned by the juice of lemons, and so continued till after the happy
Revolution. Oranges, alas! are a mere innovation, and in a manner but of yesterday. It was
the politics of Jacobites to introduce them gradually: And, to what intent? The thing speaks
itself. It was cunningly to shew their virulence against his sacred Majesty King William, of
ever glorious and immortal memory. But of late, (to shew how fast disloyalty increaseth) they
came from one or two, and then to three oranges; nay, at present we often find punch made all
with oranges, and not one single lemon. 80.]

And, thus the Romans, when they sacrificed an ox, used this kind of prayer. "As I knock down
this ox, so may thou, O Jupiter, knock down our enemies." In like manner, after King William's
death, whenever a Jacobite squeezed an orange, he had a mental curse upon the "glorious memory,"
and a hearty wish for power to squeeze all his Majesty's friends to death, as he squeezed that
orange, which bore one of his titles, as he was Prince of Orange. This I do affirm for truth;
many of that faction having confessed it to me, under an oath of secrecy; which, however, I
thought it my duty not to keep, when I saw my dear country in danger. But, what better can
be expected from an impious set of men, who never scruple to drink confusion to all true Protestants,
under the name of Whigs? a most unchristian and inhuman practice, which, to our great honour
and comfort, was never charged upon us, even by our most malicious detractors.

The sign of two angels, hovering in the air, and with their right hands supporting a crown,
is met with in several parts of this city; and hath often given me great offence: For, whether
by the unskilfulness, or dangerous principles of the painters, (although I have good reasons
to suspect the latter) those angels are usually drawn with such horrid countenances, that they
give great offence to every loyal eye, and equal cause of triumph to the Jacobites being a
most infamous reflection upon our most able and excellent ministry.

I now return to that great enormity of our city cries; most of which we have borrowed from
London. I shall consider them only in a political view, as they nearly affect the peace and
safety of both kingdoms; and having been originally contrived by wicked Machiavels, to bring
in Popery, slavery, and arbitrary power, by defeating the Protestant Succession, and introducing
the Pretender, ought, in justice, to be here laid open to the world.

About two or three months after the happy Revolution, all persons who possessed any employment,
or office, in Church or State, were obliged by an Act of Parliament, to take the oaths to King
William and Queen Mary: And a great number of disaffected persons, refusing to take the said
oaths, from a pretended scruple of conscience, but really from a spirit of Popery and rebellion,
they contrived a plot, to make the swearing to those Princes odious in the eyes of the people.
To this end, they hired certain women of ill fame, but loud shrill voices, under pretence of
selling fish, to go through the streets, with sieves on their heads, and cry, "Buy my soul,
buy my soul;" plainly insinuating, that all those who swore to King William, were just ready
to sell their souls for an employment. This cry was revived at the death of Queen Anne, and,
I hear, still continues in London, with great offence to all true Protestants; but, to our
great happiness, seems to be almost dropped in Dublin.

But, because I altogether contemn the displeasure and resentment of high-fliers, Tories, and
Jacobites, whom I look upon to be worse even than professed Papists, I do here declare, that
those evils which I am going to mention, were all brought in upon us in the worst of times,
under the late Earl of Oxford's administration, during the four last years of Queen Anne's
reign. That wicked minister was universally known to be a Papist in his heart. He was of a
most avaricious nature, and is said to have died worth four millions, sterl.[178] besides his
vast expenses in building, statues, gold plate, jewels, and other costly rarities. He was of
a mean obscure birth, from the very dregs of the people, and so illiterate, that he could hardly
read a paper at the council table. I forbear to touch at his open, profane, profligate life;
because I desire not to rake into the ashes of the dead, and therefore I shall observe this
wise maxim: De mortuis nil nisi bonum.

This flagitious man, in order to compass his black designs, employed certain wicked instruments
(which great statesmen are never without) to adapt several London cries, in such a manner as
would best answer his ends. And, whereas it was upon grounds grievously suspected, that all
places at Court were sold to the highest bidder: Certain women were employed by his emissaries,
to carry fish in baskets on their heads, and bawl through the streets, "Buy my fresh places."
I must, indeed, own that other women used the same cry, who were innocent of this wicked design,
and really sold their fish of that denomination to get an honest livelihood; but the rest,
who were in the secret, although they carried fish in their sieves or baskets, to save appearances;
yet they had likewise, a certain sign, somewhat resembling that of the free-masons, which the
purchasers of places knew well enough, and were directed by the women whither they were to
resort, and make their purchase. And, I remember very well, how oddly it looked, when we observed
many gentlemen finely dressed, about the Court end of the town, and as far as York Buildings,
where the Lord Treasurer Oxford dwelt, calling the women who cried "Buy my fresh places," and
talking to them in the corner of a street, after they understood each other's sign: But we
never could observe that any fish was bought.

Some years before the cries last mentioned, the Duke of Savoy was reported to have made certain
overtures to the Court of England, for admitting his eldest son by the Duchess of Orleans's
daughter, to succeed to the Crown, as next heir, upon the Pretender's being rejected, and that
son was immediately to turn Protestant. It was confidently reported, that great numbers of
people disaffected to the then illustrious but now Royal House of Hanover, were in those measures.
Whereupon another set of women were hired by the Jacobite leaders, to cry through the whole
town, "Buy my Savoys, dainty Savoys, curious Savoys." But, I cannot directly charge the late
Earl of Oxford with this conspiracy, because he was not then chief Minister. However, the wicked
cry still continues in London, and was brought over hither, where it remains to this day, and
in my humble opinion, a very offensive sound to every true Protestant, who is old enough to
remember those dangerous times.

During the Ministry of that corrupt and Jacobite earl above-mentioned, the secret pernicious
design of those in power, was to sell Flanders to France; the consequence of which, must have
been the infallible ruin of the States-General, and would have opened the way for France to
obtain that universal monarchy, after which they have so long aspired; to which the British
dominions must next, after Holland, have been compelled to submit, and the Protestant religion
would be rooted out of the world.

A design of this vast importance, after long consultation among the Jacobite grandees, with
the Earl of Oxford at their head, was at last determined to be carried on by the same method
with the former; it was therefore again put in practice; but the conduct of it was chiefly
left to chosen men, whose voices were louder and stronger than those of the other sex. And
upon this occasion, was first instituted in London, that famous cry of "FLOUNDERS." But the
criers were particularly directed to pronounce the word "Flaunders," and not "Flounders." For,
the country which we now by corruption call Flanders, is in its true orthography spelt Flaunders,
as may be obvious to all who read old English books. I say, from hence begun that thundering
cry, which hath ever since stunned the ears of all London, made so many children fall into
fits, and women miscarry; "Come buy my fresh flaunders, curious flaunders, charming flaunders,
alive, alive, ho;" which last words can with no propriety of speech be applied to fish manifestly
dead, (as I observed before in herrings and salmon) but very justly to ten provinces, which
contain many millions of living Christians. And the application is still closer, when we consider
that all the people were to be taken like fishes in a net; and, by assistance of the Pope,
who sets up to be the universal Fisher of Men, the whole innocent nation, was, according to
our common expression, to be "laid as flat as a flounder."

I remember, myself, a particular crier of flounders in London, who arrived at so much fame
for the loudness of his voice, that he had the honour to be mentioned upon that account, in
a comedy. He hath disturbed me many a morning, before he came within fifty doors of my lodging.
And although I were not in those days so fully apprized of the designs, which our common enemy
had then in agitation, yet, I know not how, by a secret impulse, young as I was, I could not
forbear conceiving a strong dislike against the fellow; and often said to myself, "This cry
seems to be forged in the Jesuits' school. Alas, poor England! I am grievously mistaken if
there be not some Popish Plot at the bottom." I communicated my thoughts to an intimate friend,
who reproached me with being too visionary in my speculations: But, it proved afterwards, that
I conjectured right. And I have often since reflected, that if the wicked faction could have
procured only a thousand men, of as strong lungs as the fellow I mentioned, none can tell how
terrible the consequences might have been, not only to these two Kingdoms, but over all Europe,
by selling Flanders to France. And yet these cries continue unpunished, both in London and
Dublin, although I confess, not with equal vehemency or loudness, because the reason for contriving
this desperate plot, is, to our great felicity, wholly ceased.

It is well known, that the majority of the British House of Commons in the last years of Queen
Anne's reign, were in their hearts directly opposite to the Earl of Oxford's pernicious measures;
which put him under the necessity of bribing them with salaries. Whereupon he had again recourse
to his old politics. And accordingly, his emissaries were very busy in employing certain artful
women of no good life or conversation, (as it was fully proved before Justice Peyton) to cry
that vegetable commonly called celery, through the town. These women differed from the common
criers of that herb, by some private mark which I could never learn; but the matter was notorious
enough, and sufficiently talked of, and about the same period was the cry of celery brought
over into this kingdom. But since there is not at this present, the least occasion to suspect
the loyalty of our criers upon that article, I am content that it may still be tolerated.

I shall mention but one cry more, which hath any reference to politics; but is indeed, of all
others the most insolent, as well as treasonable, under our present happy Establishment. I
mean that of turnups; not of turnips, according to the best orthography, but absolutely turnups.
Although this cry be of an older date than some of the preceding enormities, for it began soon
after the Revolution; yet was it never known to arrive at so great a height, as during the
Earl of Oxford's power. Some people, (whom I take to be private enemies) are, indeed, as ready
as myself to profess their disapprobation of this cry, on pretence that it began by the contrivance
of certain old procuresses, who kept houses of ill-fame, where lewd women met to draw young
men into vice. And this they pretend to prove by some words in the cry; because, after the
crier had bawled out, "Turnups, ho, buy my dainty turnups," he would sometimes add the two
following verses:--

  "Turn up the mistress, and turn up the maid,
  And turn up the daughter, and be not afraid."

This, say some political sophists, plainly shews that there can be nothing further meant in
this infamous cry, than an invitation to lewdness, which indeed, ought to be severely punished
in all well-regulated Governments; but cannot be fairly interpreted as a crime of State. But,
I hope, we are not so weak and blind to be deluded at this time of day, with such poor evasions.
I could, if it were proper, demonstrate the very time when those two verses were composed,
and name the author, who was no other than the famous Mr. Swan, so well known for his talent
at quibbling, and was as virulent a Jacobite as any in England. Neither could he deny the fact,
when he was taxed for it in my presence by Sir Harry Button-Colt, and Colonel Davenport, at
the Smyrna coffee-house, on the 10th of June, 1701. Thus it appears to a demonstration, that
those verses were only a blind to conceal the most dangerous designs of that party, who from
the first years after the happy Revolution, used a cant way of talking in their clubs after
this manner: "We hope, to see the cards shuffled once more, and another king TURN UP trump:"
And, "When shall we meet over a dish of TURNUPS?" The same term of art was used in their plots
against the government, and in their treasonable letters writ in ciphers, and deciphered by
the famous Dr. Wallis, as you may read in the trials of those times. This I thought fit to
set forth at large, and in so clear a light, because the Scotch and French authors have given
a very different account of the word TURNUP, but whether out of ignorance or partiality I shall
not decree; because I am sure, the reader is convinced by my discovery. It is to be observed,
that this cry was sung in a particular manner by fellows in disguise, to give notice where
those traitors were to meet, in order to concert their villainous designs.

I have no more to add upon this article, than an humble proposal, that those who cry this root
at present in our streets of Dublin, may be compelled by the justices of the peace, to pronounce
turnip, and not turnup; for, I am afraid, we have still too many snakes in our bosom; and it
would be well if their cellars were sometimes searched, when the owners least expect it; for
I am not out of fear that latet anguis in herbâ.

Thus, we are zealous in matters of small moment, while we neglect those of the highest importance.
I have already made it manifest, that all these cries were contrived in the worst of times,
under the ministry of that desperate statesman, Robert, late Earl of Oxford, and for that very
reason ought to be rejected with horror, as begun in the reign of Jacobites, and may well be
numbered among the rags of Popery and treason: Or if it be thought proper, that these cries
must continue, surely they ought to be only trusted in the hands of true Protestants, who have
given security to the government.

[Having already spoken of many abuses relating to signposts, I cannot here omit one more, because
it plainly relates to politics; and is, perhaps, of more dangerous consequence than any of
the city cries, because it directly tends to destroy the succession. It is the sign of his
present Majesty King George the Second, to be met with in many streets; and yet I happen to
be not only the first, but the only, discoverer of this audacious instance of Jacobitism. And
I am confident, that, if the justices of the peace would please to make a strict inspection,
they might find, in all such houses, before which those signs are hung up in the manner I have
observed, that the landlords were malignant Papists, or, which is worse, notorious Jacobites.
Whoever views those signs, may read, over his Majesty's head, the following letters and ciphers,
G. R. II., which plainly signifies George, King the Second, and not King George the Second,
or George the Second, King; but laying the point after the letter G, by which the owner of
the house manifestly shews, that he renounces his allegiance to King George the Second, and
allows him to be only the second king, inuendo, that the Pretender is the first king; and looking
upon King George to be only a kind of second king, or viceroy, till the Pretender shall come
over and seize the kingdom. I appeal to all mankind, whether this be a strained or forced interpretation
of the inscription, as it now stands in almost every street; whether any decipherer would make
the least doubt or hesitation to explain it as I have done; whether any other Protestant country
would endure so public an instance of treason in the capital city from such vulgar conspirators;
and, lastly, whether Papists and Jacobites of great fortunes and quality may not probably stand
behind the curtain in this dangerous, open, and avowed design against the government. But I
have performed my duty; and leave the reforming of these abuses to the wisdom, the vigilance,
the loyalty, and activity of my superiors.][179]

A SERIOUS AND USEFUL SCHEME

TO MAKE AN

HOSPITAL FOR INCURABLES.

     NOTE.

     This piece, included by Sir Walter Scott for the first time among
     Swift's writings, was, in the opinion of that editor, indisputably
     the work of the Dean of St. Patrick's. The present editor sees no
     reason to disagree with this judgement, and it is therefore
     reprinted here. The original issue of 1733, printed by Faulkner
     contained also Swift's "Petition of the Footmen in and about
     Dublin," and had a lengthy advertisement of the Complete Works of
     Swift which Faulkner was, at that time, projecting. It is
     difficult, however, to understand why the tract was not included in
     later editions of Swift's complete works. Sir Walter Scott puts
     forward an explanation suggested by Dr. Barrett, who believed the
     reason to have been, that this "jeu d'esprit might be interpreted
     as casting a slur on an hospital erected upon Lazors-Hill, now on
     the Donny-Brook road near Dublin, for the reception of persons
     afflicted with incurable maladies." The reason seems a poor one,
     though it may have been as Dr. Barrett states. A better argument
     might be found from the style and subject matter of the tract
     itself. The style is strongly Swift's, and the subject of such an
     hospital must certainly have occupied Swift's thoughts at this
     time, since he left his fortune for the erection of a similar
     building.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The text of the present edition is based on that of the volume
     issued by Faulkner in 1733, compared with the Dublin reprint of the
     following year.

     [T. S.]

A

SERIOUS and USEFUL

SCHEME,

To make an

Hospital for Incurables,

OF

Universal Benefit to all His Majesty's Subjects.

       *       *       *       *       *

Humbly addressed to the Rt. Hon. the Lord ----, the Rt. Hon. Sir ----, and to the Rt. Hon.
----, Esq;

       *       *       *       *       *

To which is added,

A Petition of the Footmen in and about Dublin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fæcunda Culpæ Secula!--Hor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed at LONDON: And,

DUBLIN:

Printed by GEORGE FAULKNER, and Sold at his Shop in Essex Street, opposite to the Bridge, and
by G. Risk, G. Ewing and W. Smith, Booksellers in Dame-Street, 1733.

There is not any thing which contributes more to the reputation of particular persons, or to
the honour of a nation in general, than erecting and endowing proper edifices, for the reception
of those who labour under different kinds of distress. The diseased and unfortunate are thereby
delivered from the misery of wanting assistance; and others are delivered from the misery of
beholding them.

It is certain, that the genius of the people of England is strongly turned to public charities;
and to so noble a degree, that almost in every part of this great and opulent city, and also
in many of the adjacent villages, we meet with a great variety of hospitals, supported by the
generous contributions of private families, as well as by the liberality of the public. Some
for seamen worn out in the service of their country, and others for infirm disabled soldiers;
some for the maintenance of tradesmen decayed, and others for their widows and orphans; some
for the service of those who linger under tedious distempers, and others for such as are deprived
of their reason.

But I find, upon nice inspection, that there is one kind of charity almost totally disregarded,
which, nevertheless, appears to me of so excellent a nature, as to be at present more wanted,
and better calculated for the ease, quietness, and felicity of this whole kingdom, than any
other can possibly be. I mean an hospital for incurables.

I must indeed confess, that an endowment of this nature would prove a very large and perpetual
expense. However, I have not the least diffidence, that I shall be able effectually to convince
the world that my present scheme for such an hospital is very practicable, and must be very
desirable by every one who hath the interest of his country, or his fellow-creatures, really
at heart.

It is observable, that, although the bodies of human creatures be affected with an infinite
variety of disorders, which elude the power of medicine, and are often found to be incurable,
yet their minds are also overrun with an equal variety, which no skill, no power, no medicine,
can alter or amend. And I think, that, out of regard to the public peace and emolument, as
well as the repose of many pious and valuable families, this latter species of incurables ought
principally to engage our attention and beneficence.

I believe an Hospital for such Incurables will be universally allowed necessary, if we only
consider what numbers of absolute incurables every profession, rank, and degree, would perpetually
produce, which, at present, are only national grievances, and of which we can have no other
effectual method to purge the kingdom.

For instance; let any man seriously consider what numbers there are of incurable fools, incurable
knaves, incurable scolds, incurable scribblers, (besides myself,) incurable coxcombs, incurable
infidels, incurable liars, incurable whores, in all places of public resort:--not to mention
the incurably vain, incurably envious, incurably proud, incurably affected, incurably impertinent,
and ten thousand other incurables, which I must of necessity pass over in silence, lest I should
swell this essay into a volume. And without doubt, every unprejudiced person will agree, that,
out of mere Christian charity, the public ought to be eased as much as possible of this troublesome
and intolerable variety of incurables.

And first, Under the denomination of incurable fools, we may reasonably expect, that such an
hospital would be furnished with considerable numbers of the growth of our own universities;
who, at present, appear in various professions in the world, under the venerable titles of
physicians, barristers, and ecclesiastics.

And as those ancient seminaries have been, for some years past, accounted little better than
nurseries of such sort of incurables, it should seem highly commendable to make some kind of
provision for them; because it is more than probable, that, if they are to be supported by
their own particular merit in their several callings, they must necessarily acquire but a very
indifferent maintenance.

I would not, willingly, be here suspected to cast reflections on any order of men, as if I
thought that small gains from the profession of any art or science, were always an undoubted
sign of an equally small degree of understanding; for I profess myself to be somewhat inclined
to a very opposite opinion, having frequently observed, that at the bar, the pulse, and the
pulpit, those who have the least learning or sense to plead, meet generally with the largest
share of promotions and profit: of which many instances might be produced; but the public seems
to want no conviction in this particular.

Under the same denominations we may further expect a large and ridiculous quantity of old rich
widows; whose eager and impatient appetites inflame them with extravagant passions for fellows
of a very different age and complexion from themselves; who purchase contempt and aversion
with good jointures; and being loaded with years, infirmities, and probably ill humour, are
forced to bribe into their embraces such whose fortunes and characters are equally desperate.

Besides, our collection of incurable fools would receive an incredible addition from every
one of the following articles.

From young extravagant heirs; who are just of a competent age to become the bubbles of jockeys,
sportsmen, gamesters, bullies, sharpers, courtesans, and such sort of honourable pickpockets.

From misers; who half starve themselves to feed the prodigality of their heirs, and who proclaim
to the world how unworthy they are of possessing estates, by the wretched and ridiculous methods
they take to enjoy them.

From contentious people, of all conditions; who are content to waste the greatest part of their
own fortunes at law, to be the instruments of impoverishing others.

From those who have any confidence in profession of friendship, before trial; or any dependence
on the fidelity of a mistress.

From young illiterate squires, who travel abroad to import lewdness, conceit, arrogance, vanity,
and foppery; of which commodities there seems to be so great an abundance at home.

From young clergymen; who contrive, by matrimony, to acquire a family, before they have obtained
the necessary means to maintain one.

From those who have considerable estates in different kingdoms, and yet are so incurably stupid
as to spend their whole incomes in this.

These, and several other articles which might be mentioned, would afford us a perpetual opportunity
of easing the public, by having an hospital for the accommodation of such incurables; who,
at present, either by the over-fondness of near relations, or the indolence of the magistrates,
are permitted to walk abroad, and appear in the most crowded places of this city, as if they
were indeed reasonable creatures.

I had almost forgot to hint, that, under this article, there is a modest probability that many
of the clergy would be found properly qualified for admittance into the hospital, who might
serve in the capacity of chaplains, and save the unnecessary expense of salaries.

To these fools, in order succeed such as may justly be included under the extensive denomination
of incurable knaves; of which our several Inns of Court would constantly afford us abundant
supplies.

I think indeed, that, of this species of incurables, there ought to be a certain limited number
annually admitted; which number, neither any regard to the quiet or benefit of the nation,
nor any other charitable or public-spirited reason, should tempt us to exceed; because, if
all were to be admitted on such a foundation, who might be reputed incurable of this distemper;
and if it were possible for the public to find any place large enough for their reception;
I have not the least doubt, that all our Inns, which are at this day so crowded, would in a
short time be emptied of their inhabitants; and the law, that beneficial craft, want hands
to conduct it.

I tremble to think what herds of attorneys, solicitors, pettifoggers, scriveners, usurers,
hackney-clerks, pickpockets, pawn-brokers, jailors, and justices of the peace, would hourly
be driven to such an hospital; and what disturbance it might also create in several noble and
wealthy families.

What unexpected distress might it prove to several men of fortune and quality, to be suddenly
deprived of their rich stewards, in whom they had for many years reposed the utmost confidence,
and to find them irrecoverably lodged among such a collection of incurables!

How many orphans might then expect to see their guardians hurried away to the hospital; and
how many greedy executors find reason to lament the want of opportunity to pillage!

Would not Exchange Alley have cause to mourn for the loss of its stock-jobbers and brokers;
and the Charitable Corporation for the confinement of many of its directors?

Might not Westminster-Hall, as well as all the gaming-houses in this great city, be entirely
unpeopled; and the professors of art in each of those assemblies become useless in their vocations,
by being deprived of all future opportunity to be dishonest?

In short, it might put the whole kingdom into confusion and disorder; and we should find that
the entire revenues of this nation would be scarce able to support so great a number of incurables,
in this way, as would appear qualified for admission into our hospital.

For if we only consider how this kingdom swarms with quadrille-tables, and gaming-houses, both
public and private; and also how each of those houses, as well as Westminster-Hall aforesaid,
swarms with knaves who are anxious to win, or fools who have anything to lose; we may be soon
convinced how necessary it will be to limit the number of incurables, comprehended under these
titles, lest the foundation should prove insufficient to maintain any others besides them.

However, if, by this Scheme of mine, the nation can be eased of twenty or thirty thousand such
incurables, I think it ought to be esteemed somewhat beneficial, and worthy of the attention
of the public.

The next sort for whom I would gladly provide, and who for several generations have proved
insupportable plagues and grievances to the good people of England, are those who may properly
be admitted under the character of incurable scolds.

I own this to be a temper of so desperate a nature, that few females can be found willing to
own themselves anyway addicted to it; and yet, it is thought that there is scarce a single
parson, 'prentice, alderman, squire, or husband, who would not solemnly avouch the very reverse.

I could wish, indeed, that the word scold might be changed for some more gentle term, of equal
signification; because I am convinced, that the very name is as offensive to female ears, as
the effects of that incurable distemper are to the ears of the men; which, to be sure, is inexpressible.

And that it hath been always customary to honour the very same kind of actions with different
appellations, only to avoid giving offence, is evident to common observation.

For instance: How many lawyers, attorneys, solicitors, under-sheriffs, intriguing chambermaids,
and counter-officers, are continually guilty of extortion, bribery, oppression, and many other
profitable knaveries, to drain the purses of those with whom they are any way concerned! And
yet, all these different expedients to raise a fortune, pass generally under the milder names
of fees, perquisites, vails, presents, gratuities, and such like; although, in strictness of
speech, they should be called robbery, and consequently be rewarded with a gibbet.

Nay, how many honourable gentlemen might be enumerated, who keep open shop to make a trade
of iniquity; who teach the law to wink whenever power or profit appears in her way; and contrive
to grow rich by the vice, the contention, or the follies of mankind; and who, nevertheless,
instead of being branded with the harsh-sounding names of knaves, pilferers, or public oppressors,
(as they justly merit,) are only distinguished by the title of justices of the peace; in which
single term, all those several appellations are generally thought to be implied.

But to proceed. When first I determined to prepare this Scheme for the use and inspection of
the public, I intended to examine one whole ward in this city, that my computation of the number
of incurable scolds might be more perfect and exact. But I found it impossible to finish my
progress through more than one street.

I made my first application to a wealthy citizen in Cornhill, common-council-man for his ward;
to whom I hinted, that if he knew e'er an incurable scold in the neighbourhood, I had some
hope to provide for her in such a manner, as to hinder her from being further troublesome.
He referred me with great delight to his next-door friend; yet whispered me, that, with much
greater ease and pleasure, he could furnish me out of his own family ----; and begged the preference.

His next-door friend owned readily that his wife's qualifications were not misrepresented,
and that he would cheerfully contribute to promote so useful a scheme; but positively asserted,
that it would be of small service to rid the neighbourhood of one woman, while such multitudes
would remain all equally insupportable.

By which circumstance I conjectured, that the quantity of these incurables in London, Westminster,
and Southwark, would be very considerable; and that a generous contribution might reasonably
be expected for such an hospital as I am recommending.

Besides, the number of these female incurables would probably be very much increased by additional
quantities of old maids; who, being wearied with concealing their ill-humour for one-half of
their lives, are impatient to give it full vent in the other. For old maids, like old thin-bodied
wines, instead of growing more agreeable by years, are observed, for the most part, to become
intolerably sharp, sour, and useless.

Under this denomination also, we may expect to be furnished with as large a collection of old
bachelors, especially those who have estates, and but a moderate degree of understanding. For,
an old wealthy bachelor, being perpetually surrounded with a set of flatterers, cousins, poor
dependents, and would-be heirs, who for their own views submit to his perverseness and caprice,
becomes insensibly infected with this scolding malady, which generally proves incurable, and
renders him disagreeable to his friends, and a fit subject for ridicule to his enemies.

As to the incurable scribblers, (of which society I have the honour to be a member,) they probably
are innumerable; and, of consequence, it will be absolutely impossible to provide for one-tenth
part of their fraternity. However, as this set of incurables are generally more plagued with
poverty than any other, it will be a double charity to admit them on the foundation; a charity
to the world, to whom they are a common pest and nuisance; and a charity to themselves, to
relieve them from want, contempt, kicking, and several other accidents of that nature, to which
they are continually liable.

Grub-street itself would then have reason to rejoice, to see so many of its half-starved manufacturers
amply provided for; and the whole tribe of meagre incurables would probably shout for joy,
at being delivered from the tyranny and garrets of printers, publishers, and booksellers.

What a mixed multitude of ballad-writers, ode-makers, translators, farce-compounders, opera-mongers,
biographers, pamphleteers, and journalists, would appear crowding to the hospital; not unlike
the brutes resorting to the ark before the deluge! And what an universal satisfaction would
such a sight afford to all, except pastry-cooks, grocers, chandlers, and tobacco-retailers,
to whom alone the writings of those incurables were anyway profitable!

I have often been amazed to observe, what a variety of incurable coxcombs are to be met with
between St. James's and Limehouse, at every hour of the day; as numerous as Welsh parsons,
and equally contemptible. How they swarm in all coffeehouses, theatres, public walks, and private
assemblies; how they are incessantly employed in cultivating intrigues, and every kind of irrational
pleasure; how industrious they seem to mimic the appearance of monkeys, as monkeys are emulous
to imitate the gestures of men: And from such observations, I concluded, that to confine the
greatest part of those incurables, who are so many living burlesques of human nature, would
be of eminent service to this nation; and I am persuaded that I am far from being singular
in that opinion.

As for the incurable infidels and liars, I shall range them under the same article, and would
willingly appoint them the same apartment in the hospital; because there is a much nearer resemblance
between them, than is generally imagined.

Have they not an equal delight in imposing falsities on the public; and seem they not equally
desirous to be thought of more sagacity and importance than others? Do they not both report
what both know to be false; and both confidently assert what they are conscious is most liable
to contradiction?

The parallel might easily be carried on much further, if the intended shortness of this essay
would admit it. However, I cannot forbear taking notice, with what immense quantities of incurable
liars his Majesty's kingdoms are overrun; what offence and prejudice they are to the public;
what inconceivable injury to private persons; and what a necessity there is for an hospital,
to relieve the nation from the curse of so many incurables.

This distemper appears almost in as many different shapes, as there are persons afflicted with
it; and, in every individual, is always beyond the power of medicine.

Some lie for their interest; such as fishmongers, flatterers, pimps, lawyers, fortune-hunters,
and fortune-tellers; and others lie for their entertainment, as maids, wives, widows, and all
other tea-table attendants.

Some lie out of vanity, as poets, painters, players, fops, military officers, and all those
who frequent the levees of the great: and others lie out of ill nature, as old maids, &c.

Some lie out of custom, as lovers, coxcombs, footmen, sailors, mechanics, merchants, and chambermaids;
and others lie out of complaisance or necessity, as courtiers, chaplains, &c. In short, it
were endless to enumerate them all, but this sketch may be sufficient to give us some small
imperfect idea of their numbers.

As to the remaining incurables, we may reasonably conclude, that they bear at least an equal
proportion to those already mentioned; but with regard to the incurable whores in this kingdom,
I must particularly observe, that such of them as are public, and make it their profession,
have proper hospitals for their reception already, if we could find magistrates without passions,
or officers without an incurable itch to a bribe. And such of them as are private, and make
it their amusement, I should be unwilling to disturb, for two reasons.

First, Because it might probably afflict many noble, wealthy, contented, and unsuspecting husbands,
by convincing them of their own dishonour, and the unpardonable disloyalty of their wives:
And, secondly, Because it will be for ever impossible to confine a woman from being guilty
of any kind of misconduct, when once she is firmly resolved to attempt it.

From all which observations, every reasonable man must infallibly be convinced, that an hospital
for the support of these different kinds of incurables, would be extremely beneficial to these
kingdoms. I think, therefore, that nothing further is wanting, but to demonstrate to the public,
that such a Scheme is very practicable; both by having an undoubted method to raise an annual
income, at least sufficient to make the experiment, (which is the way of founding all hospitals,)
and by having also a strong probability, that such an hospital would be supported by perpetual
benefactions; which, in very few years, might enable us to increase the number of incurables
to nine-tenths more than we can reasonably venture on at first.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Computation of the Daily and Annual Expenses of an Hospital, to be erected for Incurables.

                                                                  Per day.

  Incurable fools, are almost infinite; however, at
  first, I would have only twenty thousand admitted;
  and, allowing to each person but one shilling per
  day for maintenance, which is as low as possible, the
  daily expense for this article will be                            £1000

  Incurable knaves, are, if possible, more numerous,
  including foreigners, especially Irishmen. Yet I
  would limit the number of these to about thirty
  thousand; which would amount to                                    1500

  Incurable scolds, would be plentifully supplied
  from almost every family in the kingdom. And indeed,
  to make this hospital of any real benefit, we
  cannot admit fewer, even at first, than thirty thousand,
  including the ladies of Billingsgate and Leadenhall
  market, which is                                                   1500

  The incurable scribblers, are undoubtedly a very
  considerable society, and of that denomination I
  would admit at least forty thousand; because it is
  to be supposed, that such incurables will be found
  in greatest distress for a daily maintenance. And
  if we had not great encouragement to hope, that
  many of that class would properly be admitted
  among the incurable fools, I should strenuously intercede
  to have ten or twenty thousand more added.
  But their allowed number will amount to                            2000

  Incurable coxcombs, are very numerous; and,
  considering what numbers are annually imported
  from France and Italy, we cannot admit fewer than
  ten thousand, which will be                                         500

  Incurable infidels, (as they affect to be called)
  should be received into the hospital to the number
  of ten thousand. However, if it should accidentally
  happen to grow into a fashion to be believers, it is
  probable, that the great part of them would, in a
  very short time, be dismissed from the hospital, as
  perfectly cured. Their expense would be                             500

  Incurable liars, are infinite in all parts of the kingdom;
  and, making allowance for citizens' wives,
  mercers, prentices, news-writers, old maids, and
  flatterers, we cannot possibly allow a smaller number
  than thirty thousand, which will amount to                         1500

  The incurable envious, are in vast quantities
  throughout this whole nation. Nor can it reasonably
  be expected that their numbers should lessen, while
  fame and honours are heaped upon some particular
  persons, as the public reward of their superior
  accomplishments, while others, who are equally excellent,
  in their own opinions, are constrained to
  live unnoticed and contemned. And, as it would
  be impossible to provide for all those who are possessed
  with this distemper, I should consent to admit
  only twenty thousand at first, by way of experiment,
  amounting to                                                       1000

  Of the incurable vain, affected, and impertinent,
  I should at least admit ten thousand; which number
  I am confident will appear very inconsiderable, if
  we include all degrees of females, from the duchess
  to the chambermaid; all poets, who have had a little
  success, especially in the dramatic way, and all
  players, who have met with a small degree of approbation.
  Amounting only to                                                   500

By which plain computation it is evident, that two hundred thousand persons will be daily provided
for, and the allowance for maintaining this collection of incurables may be seen in the following
account.

                                                                  Per day.
  For the Incurable
  Fools, being           20,000 at one shilling each               £1000
  Knaves                 30,000          ditto                      1500
  Scolds                 30,000                                     1500
  Scribblers             40,000                                     2000
  Coxcombs               10,000                                      500
  Infidels               10,000                                      500
  Liars                  30,000                                     1500

  For the Incurably
  Envious                20,000                                     1000
  Vain                   10,000                                      500

  Total maintained,     200,000                   Total expense, £10,000

                                                    M. Th. H.
  From whence it appears, that the daily expense
  will amount to such a sum, as in 365
  days comes to                                     £3,650,000

And I am fully satisfied that a sum, much greater than this, may easily be raised, with all
possible satisfaction to the subject, and without interfering in the least with the revenues
of the crown.

In the first place, a large proportion of this sum might be raised by the voluntary contribution
of the inhabitants.

The computed number of people in Great Britain is very little less than eight millions; of
which, upon a most moderate computation, we may account one half to be incurables. And as all
those different incurables, whether acting in the capacity of friends, acquaintances, wives,
husbands, daughters, counsellors, parents, old maids, or old bachelors, are inconceivable plagues
to all those with whom they happen to be concerned; and as there is no hope of being eased
of such plagues, except by such an hospital, which by degrees might be enlarged to contain
them all: I think it cannot be doubted, that at least three millions and an half of people,
out of the remaining proportion, would be found both able and desirous to contribute so small
a sum as twenty shillings per annum, for the quiet of the kingdom, the peace of private families,
and the credit of the nation in general. And this contribution would amount to very near our
requisite sum.

Nor can this by any means be esteemed a wild conjecture; for where is there a man of common
sense, honesty, or good-nature, who would not gladly propose even a much greater sum to be
freed from a scold, a knave, a fool, a liar, a coxcomb conceitedly repeating the compositions
of others, or a vain impertinent poet repeating his own?

In the next place, it may justly be supposed, that many young noblemen, knights, squires, and
extravagant heirs, with very large estates, would be confined in our hospital. And I would
propose, that the annual income of every particular incurable's estate should be appropriated
to the use of the house. But, besides these, there will undoubtedly be many old misers, aldermen,
justices, directors of companies, templars, and merchants of all kinds, whose personal fortunes
are immense, and who should proportionably pay to the hospital.

Yet, lest, by being here misunderstood, I should seem to propose an unjust or oppressive Scheme,
I shall further explain my design.

Suppose, for instance, a young nobleman, possessed of ten or twenty thousand pounds per annum,
should accidentally be confined there as an incurable: I would have only such a proportion
of his estate applied to the support of the hospital, as he himself would spend if he were
at liberty. And, after his death, the profits of the estate should regularly devolve to the
next lawful heir, whether male or female.

And my reason for this proposal is; because considerable estates, which probably would be squandered
away among hounds, horses, whores, sharpers, surgeons, tailors, pimps, masquerades, or architects,
if left to the management of such incurables; would, by this means, become of some real use,
both to the public and themselves. And perhaps this may be the only method which can be found
to make such young spendthrifts of any real benefit to their country.

And although the estates of deceased incurables might be permitted to descend to the next heirs,
the hospital would probably sustain no great disadvantage; because it is very likely that most
of these heirs would also gradually be admitted under some denomination or other; and consequently
their estates would again devolve to the use of the hospital.

As to the wealthy misers, &c., I would have their private fortunes nicely examined and calculated;
because, if they were old bachelors, (as it would frequently happen,) their whole fortunes
should then be appropriated to the endowment; but, if married, I would leave two-thirds of
their fortunes for the support of their families; which families would cheerfully consent to
give away the remaining third, if not more, to be freed from such peevish and disagreeable
governors.

So that, deducting from the two hundred thousand incurables the forty thousand scribblers,
who to be sure would be found in very bad circumstances; I believe, among the remaining hundred
and sixty thousand fools, knaves, and coxcombs, so many would be found of large estates and
easy fortunes, as would at least produce two hundred thousand pounds per annum.

As a further addition to our endowment, I would have a tax upon all inscriptions and tombstones,
monuments and obelisks, erected to the honour of the dead, or on porticoes and trophies, to
the honour of the living; because these will naturally and properly come under the article
of lies, pride, vanity, &c.

And if all inscriptions throughout this kingdom were impartially examined, in order to tax
those which should appear demonstrably false or flattering, I am convinced that not one-fifth
part of the number would, after such a scrutiny, escape exempted.

Many an ambitious turbulent spirit would then be found, belied with the opposite title of "lover
of his country"; and many a Middlesex justice, as improperly described, "sleeping in hope of
salvation."

Many an usurer, discredited by the appellations of "honest and frugal"; and many a lawyer,
with the character of conscientious and "equitable."

Many a British statesman and general, decaying, with more honour than they lived; and their
dusts distinguished with a better reputation than when they were animated.

Many dull parsons, improperly styled eloquent; and as many stupid physicians, improperly styled
learned.

Yet, notwithstanding the extensiveness of a tax upon such monumental impositions, I will count
only upon twenty thousand, at five pounds per annum each, which will amount to one hundred
thousand pounds annually.

To these annuities, I would also request the Parliament of this nation to allow the benefit
of two lotteries yearly; by which the hospital would gain two hundred thousand pounds clear.
Nor can such a request seem any way extraordinary, since it would be appropriated to the benefit
of fools and knaves, which is the sole cause of granting one for this present year.

In the last place, I would add the estate of Richard Norton, Esq.;[180] and, to do his memory
all possible honour, I would have his statue erected in the very first apartment of the hospital,
or in any other which might seem more apt. And, on his monument, I would permit a long inscription,
composed by his dearest friends, which should remain tax-free for ever.

From these several articles, therefore, would annually arise the following sums.

                                                           M. Th. H.
                                                            P. Ann.

  From the voluntary contribution,                        £3,500,000
  From the estates of the incurables,                        200,000
  By the tax upon tombstones, monuments,
   &c. (that of Richard Norton, Esq. always
   excepted,)                                                100,000
  By two annual lotteries,                                   200,000
  By the estate of Richard Norton, Esq.                        6,000
                                                           ----------
                                                   Total, £4,006,000[181]
                                                           ----------
  And the necessary sum for the hospital being            £3,650,000
  There will remain annually over and above,                 356,000

Which sum of 356,000l. should be applied towards erecting the building, and answer accidental
expenses, in such a manner as should seem most proper to promote the design of the hospital.
But the whole management of it should be left to the skill and discretion of those who are
to be constituted governors.

It may, indeed, prove a work of some small difficulty to fix upon a commodious place, large
enough for a building of this nature. I should have thoughts of attempting to enclose all Yorkshire,
if I were not apprehensive that it would be crowded with so many incurable knaves of its own
growth, that there would not be the least room left for the reception of any others; by which
accident, our whole project might be retarded for some time.

Thus have I set this matter in the plainest light I could, that every one may judge of the
necessity, usefulness, and practicableness of this Scheme: and I shall only add a few scattered
hints, which, to me, seem not altogether unprofitable.

I think the prime minister for the time being ought largely to contribute to such a foundation;
because his high station and merits must of necessity infect a great number with envy, hatred,
lying, and such sort of distempers; and, of consequence, furnish the hospital annually with
many incurables.

I would desire that the governors appointed to direct this hospital, should have (if such a
thing were possible) some appearance of religion, and belief in God; because those who are
to be admitted as incurable infidels, atheists, deists, and freethinkers, most of which tribe
are only so out of pride, conceit, and affectation, might perhaps grow gradually into believers,
if they perceived it to be the custom of the place where they lived.

Although it be not customary for the natives of Ireland to meet with any manner of promotion
in this kingdom, I would, in this respect, have that national prejudice entirely laid aside;
and request, that, for the reputation of both kingdoms, a large apartment in the hospital may
be fitted up for Irishmen particularly, who, either by knavery, lewdness, or fortune-hunting,
should appear qualified for admittance; because their numbers would certainly be very considerable.

I would further request, that a father, who seems delighted at seeing his son metamorphosed
into a fop, or a coxcomb, because he hath travelled from London to Paris; may be sent along
with the young gentleman to the hospital, as an old fool, absolutely incurable.

If a poet hath luckily produced anything, especially in the dramatic way, which is tolerably
well received by the public, he should be sent immediately to the hospital; because incurable
vanity is always the consequence of a little success. And, if his compositions be ill received,
let him be admitted as a scribbler.

And I hope, in regard to the great pains I have taken, about this Scheme, that I shall be admitted
upon the foundation, as one of the scribbling incurables. But, as an additional favour, I entreat,
that I may not be placed in an apartment with a poet who hath employed his genius for the stage;
because he will kill me with repeating his own compositions: and I need not acquaint the world,
that it is extremely painful to bear any nonsense--except our own.

My private reason for soliciting so early to be admitted is, because it is observed that schemers
and projectors are generally reduced to beggary; but, by my being provided for in the hospital,
either as an incurable fool or a scribbler, that discouraging observation will for once be
publicly disproved, and my brethren in that way will be secure of a public reward for their
labours.

It gives me, I own, a great degree of happiness, to reflect, that although in this short treatise
the characters of many thousands are contained, among the vast variety of incurables; yet,
not any one person is likely to be offended; because, it is natural to apply ridiculous characters
to all the world, except ourselves. And I dare be bold to say, that the most incurable fool,
knave, scold, coxcomb, scribbler, or liar, in this whole nation, will sooner enumerate the
circle of their acquaintance as addicted to those distempers, than once imagine themselves
any way qualified for such an hospital.

I hope, indeed, that our wise legislature will take this project into their serious consideration;
and promote an endowment, which will be of such eminent service to multitudes of his Majesty's
unprofitable subjects, and may in time be of use to themselves and their posterity.

       *       *       *       *       *

  From my Garret in Moorfields, Aug. 20, 1733.

TO THE HONOURABLE

HOUSE OF COMMONS, &c.

The Humble Petition of the Footmen in and about the City of Dublin.

     NOTE.

     Swift may have written the following mock petition by way of satire
     against the many absurd petitions which were presented at the time
     to the Irish House of Commons, and of which two examples were
     quoted in the note to a previous tract. If coal-porters and
     hackney-coachmen might address the Honourable House, why not
     footmen?

       *       *       *       *       *

     The present text is based on that found at the end of Swift's
     "Serious and Useful Scheme to make an Hospital for Incurables,"
     issued by George Faulkner in 1733. Faulkner reprinted this volume
     in 1734.

Humbly Sheweth,

That your Petitioners are a great and numerous society, endowed with several privileges, time
out of mind.

That certain lewd, idle, and disorderly persons, for several months past, as it is notoriously
known, have been daily seen in the public walks of this City, habited sometimes in green coats,
and sometimes in laced, with long oaken cudgels in their hands, and without swords, in hopes
to procure favour, by that advantage, with a great number of ladies who frequent those walks,
pretending and giving themselves out to be true genuine Irish footmen. Whereas they can be
proved to be no better than common toupees,[182] as a judicious eye may soon discover by their
awkward, clumsy, ungenteel gait and behaviour, by their unskilfulness in dress, even with the
advantage of wearing our habits, by their ill-favoured countenances, with an air of impudence
and dulness peculiar to the rest of their brethren; who have not yet arrived at that transcendent
pitch of assurance. Although, it may be justly apprehended, that they will do so in time, if
these counterfeits shall happen to succeed in their evil design, of passing for real footmen,
thereby to render themselves more amiable to the ladies.

Your petitioners do further allege, that many of the said counterfeits, upon a strict examination,
have been found in the very act of strutting, swearing, staring, swaggering, in a manner that
plainly shewed their best endeavours to imitate us. Wherein, although they did not succeed,
yet by their ignorant and ungainly way of copying our graces, the utmost indignity was endeavoured
to be cast upon our whole profession.

Your Petitioners do therefore make it their humble request, that this Honourable House, (to
many of whom your Petitioners are nearly allied) will please to take this grievance into your
most serious consideration: Humbly submitting, whether it would not be proper, that certain
officers might, at the public charge, be employed to search for, and discover all such counterfeit
footmen, and carry them before the next Justice of Peace; by whose warrant, upon the first
conviction, they should be stripped of their coats, and oaken ornaments, and be set two hours
in the stocks. Upon the second conviction, besides stripping, be set six hours in the stocks,
with a paper pinned on their breast signifying their crime, in large capital letters, and in
the following words. "A. B. commonly called A. B. Esq.; a toupee, and a notorious impostor,
who presumed to personate a true Irish footman."

And for any further offence the said toupee shall be committed to Bridewell, whipped three
times, forced to hard labour for a month, and not be set at liberty, till he shall have given
sufficient security for his good behaviour.

Your Honours will please to observe with what lenity we propose to treat these enormous offenders,
who have already brought such a scandal on our honourable calling, that several well-meaning
people have mistaken them to be of our Fraternity; in diminution to that credit and dignity
wherewith we have supported our station, as we always did, in the worst of times.[183] And
we further beg leave to remark, that this was manifestly done with a seditious design, to render
us less capable of serving the public in any great employments, as several of our Fraternity,
as well as our ancestors have done.

We do therefore humbly implore your Honours, to give necessary orders for our relief, in this
present exigency, and your Petitioners (as in duty bound) shall ever pray, &c.

  Dublin, 1733.

WRITTEN IN THE YEAR 1733.

     NOTE.

     Swift here argues that a holder of an office under the government
     cannot, of necessity, be an honest representative of the people.
     There were two candidates before the freemen for the suffrages of
     the City, one, Lord Mayor French, and the other Mr. John Macarrell.
     The latter was an office-holder; he was Register to the Barracks,
     and received his salary from the government. It was not to be
     expected that he would vote against his employer, be he never so
     honest a man. Swift openly informs the freemen that the Drapier is
     against this man. The Lord Mayor was elected.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The text of this "Advice" is based on that given in the eighth
     volume of Swift's Collected Works, issued in 1746. The Forster
     Collection contains a made-up booklet of pp. 196-205, taken from a
     volume of one of the collected editions.

Those few writers, who, since the death of Alderman Burton, have employed their pens in giving
advice to our citizens, how they should proceed in electing a new representative for the next
sessions, having laid aside their pens, I have reason to hope, that all true lovers of their
country in general, and particularly those who have any regard for the privileges and liberties
of this great and ancient city, will think a second, and a third time, before they come to
a final determination upon what person they resolve to fix their choice.

I am told, there are only two persons who set up for candidates; one is the present Lord Mayor,[184]
and the other, a gentleman of good esteem, an alderman of the city, a merchant of reputation,
and possessed of a considerable office under the crown.[185] The question is, which of these
two persons it will be most for the advantage of the city to elect? I have but little acquaintance
with either, so that my inquiries will be very impartial, and drawn only from the general character
and situation of both.

In order to this, I must offer my countrymen and fellow-citizens some reasons why I think they
ought to be more than ordinarily careful, at this juncture, upon whom they bestow their votes.

To perform this with more clearness, it may be proper to give you a short state of our unfortunate
country.

We consist of two parties: I do not mean Popish and Protestant, High and Low Church, Episcopal
and Sectarians, Whig and Tory; but of these English who happen to be born in this kingdom,
(whose ancestors reduced the whole nation under the obedience of the English crown,) and the
gentlemen sent from the other side to possess most of the chief employments here. This latter
party is very much enlarged and strengthened by the whole power in the church, the law, the
army, the revenue, and the civil administration deposited in their hands; although, out of
political ends, and to save appearances, some employments are still deposited (yet gradually
in a smaller number) to persons born here; this proceeding, fortified with good words and many
promises, is sufficient to flatter and feed the hopes of hundreds, who will never be one farthing
the better, as they might easily be convinced, if they were qualified to think at all.

Civil employments of all kinds have been for several years past, with great prudence, made
precarious, and during pleasure; by which means the possessors are, and must inevitably be,
for ever dependent; yet those very few of any consequence, which are dealt with so sparing
a hand to persons born among us, are enough to keep hope alive in great numbers, who desire
to mend their condition by the favour of those in power.

Now, my dear fellow-citizens, how is it possible you can conceive, that any person, who holds
an office of some hundred pounds a year, which may be taken from him whenever power shall think
fit, will, if he should be chosen a member for any city, do the least thing, when he sits in
the house, that he knows or fears may be displeasing to those who gave him or continue him
in that office? Believe me, these are no times to expect such an exalted degree of virtue from
mortal men. Blazing stars are much more frequently seen than such heroical worthies. And I
could sooner hope to find ten thousand pounds by digging in my garden, than such a phoenix,
by searching among the present race of mankind.

I cannot forbear thinking it a very erroneous, as well as modern maxim of politics, in the
English nation, to take every opportunity of depressing Ireland; whereof an hundred instances
may be produced in points of the highest importance, and within the memory of every middle-aged
man; although many of the greatest persons among that party which now prevails, have formerly,
upon that article, much differed in their opinion from their present successors.

But so the fact stands at present. It is plain that the court and country party here, (I mean
in the House of Commons,) very seldom agree in anything but their loyalty to his present Majesty,
their resolutions to make him and his viceroy easy in the government, to the utmost of their
power, under the present condition of the kingdom. But the persons sent from England, who (to
a trifle) are possessed of the sole executive power in all its branches, with their few adherents
in possession who were born here, and hundreds of expectants, hopers, and promissees, put on
quite contrary notions with regard to Ireland. They count upon a universal submission to whatever
shall be demanded; wherein they act safely, because none of themselves, except the candidates,
feel the least of our pressures.

I remember a person of distinction some days ago affirmed in a good deal of mixed company,
and of both parties, that the gentry from England, who now enjoy our highest employments of
all kinds, can never be possibly losers of one farthing by the greatest calamities that can
befall this kingdom, except a plague that would sweep away a million of our hewers of wood
and drawers of water, or an invasion that would fright our grandees out of the kingdom. For
this person argued, that while there was a penny left in the treasury, the civil and military
list must be paid; and that the Episcopal revenues, which are usually farmed out at six times
below the real value, could hardly fail. He insisted farther, that as money diminished, the
price of all necessaries for life must of consequence do so too, which would be for the advantage
of all persons in employment, as well as of my lords the bishops, and to the ruin of everybody
else. Among the company there wanted not men in office, besides one or two expectants; yet
I did not observe any of them disposed to return an answer; but the consequences drawn were
these: That the great men in power sent hither from the other side, were by no means upon the
same foot with his Majesty's other subjects of Ireland; they had no common ligament to bind
them with us; they suffered not with our sufferings; and if it were possible for us to have
any cause of rejoicing, they could not rejoice with us.

Suppose a person, born in this kingdom, shall happen by his services for the English interest
to have an employment conferred on him worth four hundred pounds a year; and that he hath likewise
an estate in land worth four hundred pounds a year more; suppose him to sit in Parliament;
then, suppose a land-tax to be brought in of five shillings a pound for ten years; I tell you
how this gentleman will compute. He hath four hundred pounds a year in land: the tax he must
pay yearly is one hundred pounds; by which, in ten years, he will pay only a thousand pounds.
But if he gives his vote against this tax, he will lose four thousand pounds by being turned
out of his employment, together with the power and influence he hath, by virtue or colour of
his employment; and thus the balance will be against him three thousand pounds.

I desire, my fellow-citizens, you will please to call to mind how many persons you can vouch
for among your acquaintance, who have so much virtue and self-denial as to lose four hundred
pounds a year for life, together with the smiles and favour of power, and the hopes of higher
advancement, merely out of a generous love of his country.

The contentions of parties in England are very different from those among us. The battle there
is fought for power and riches; and so it is indeed among us: but whether a great employment
be given to Tom or to Peter, they were both born in England, the profits are to be spent there.
All employments (except a very few) are bestowed on the natives; they do not send to Germany,
Holland, Sweden, or Denmark, much less to Ireland, for chancellors, bishops, judges, or other
officers. Their salaries, whether well or ill got, are employed at home: and whatever their
morals or politics be, the nation is not the poorer.

The House of Commons in England have frequently endeavoured to limit the number of members,
who should be allowed to have employments under the Crown. Several acts have been made to that
purpose, which many wise men think are not yet effectual enough, and many of them are rendered
ineffectual by leaving the power of re-election. Our House of Commons consists, I think, of
about three hundred members; if one hundred of these should happen to be made up of persons
already provided for, joined with expecters, compliers easy to be persuaded, such as will give
a vote for a friend who is in hopes to get something; if they be merry companions, without
suspicion, of a natural bashfulness, not apt or able to look forwards; if good words, smiles,
and caresses, have any power over them, the larger part of a second hundred may be very easily
brought in at a most reasonable rate.

There is an Englishman[186] of no long standing among us, but in an employment of great trust,
power, and profit. This excellent person did lately publish, at his own expense, a pamphlet
printed in England by authority, to justify the bill for a general excise or inland duty, in
order to introduce that blessed scheme among us. What a tender care must such an English patriot
for Ireland have of our interest, if he should condescend to sit in our Parliament! I will
bridle my indignation. However, methinks I long to see that mortal, who would with pleasure
blow us all up at a blast: but he duly receives his thousand pounds a year; makes his progresses
like a king; is received in pomp at every town and village where he travels,[187] and shines
in the English newspapers.

I will now apply what I have said to you, my brethren and fellow-citizens. Count upon it, as
a truth next to your creed, that no one person in office, of which he is not master for life,
whether born here or in England, will ever hazard that office for the good of this country.
One of your candidates is of this kind, and I believe him to be an honest gentleman, as the
word honest is generally understood. But he loves his employment better than he doth you, or
his country, or all the countries upon earth. Will you contribute and give him city security
to pay him the value of his employment, if it should be taken from him, during his life, for
voting on all occasions with the honest country party in the House?--although I must question,
whether he would do it even upon that condition.

Wherefore, since there are but two candidates, I entreat you will fix on the present Lord Mayor.
He hath shewn more virtue, more activity, more skill, in one year's government of the city,
than a hundred years can equal. He hath endeavoured, with great success, to banish frauds,
corruptions, and all other abuses from amongst you.

A dozen such men in power would be able to reform a kingdom. He hath no employment under the
Crown; nor is likely to get or solicit for any: his education having not turned him that way.
I will assure for no man's future conduct; but he who hath hitherto practised the rules of
virtue with so much difficulty in so great and busy a station, deserves your thanks, and the
best return you can make him; and you, my brethren, have no other to give him, than that of
representing you in Parliament. Tell me not of your engagements and promises to another: your
promises were sins of inconsideration, at best; and you are bound to repent and annul them.
That gentleman, although with good reputation, is already engaged on the other side. He hath
four hundred pounds a year under the Crown, which he is too wise to part with, by sacrificing
so good an establishment to the empty names of virtue, and love of his country. I can assure
you, the DRAPIER is in the interest of the present Lord Mayor, whatever you may be told to
the contrary. I have lately heard him declare so in public company, and offer some of these
very reasons in defence of his opinion; although he hath a regard and esteem for the other
gentleman, but would not hazard the good of the city and the kingdom for a compliment.

The Lord Mayor's severity to some unfair dealers, should not turn the honest men among them
against him. Whatever he did, was for the advantage of those very traders, whose dishonest
members he punished. He hath hitherto been above temptation to act wrong; and therefore, as
mankind goes, he is the most likely to act right as a representative of your city, as he constantly
did in the government of it.

SOME

CONSIDERATIONS

HUMBLY OFFERED TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE THE LORD MAYOR, THE COURT OF ALDERMEN, AND COMMON-COUNCIL
OF THE HONOURABLE CITY OF DUBLIN,

IN THE

CHOICE OF A RECORDER.

1733.

SOME CONSIDERATIONS IN THE CHOICE OF A RECORDER.

The office of Recorder to this city being vacant by the death of a very worthy gentleman,[188]
it is said, that five or six persons are soliciting to succeed him in the employment. I am
a stranger to all their persons, and to most of their characters; which latter, I hope, will
at this time be canvassed with more decency than it sometimes happeneth upon the like occasions.
Therefore, as I am wholly impartial, I can with more freedom deliver my thoughts how the several
persons and parties concerned ought to proceed in electing a Recorder for this great and ancient
city.

And first, as it is a very natural, so I can by no means think it an unreasonable opinion,
that the sons or near relations of Aldermen, and other deserving citizens, should be duly regarded
as proper competitors for an employment in the city's disposal, provided they be equally qualified
with other candidates; and provided that such employments require no more than common abilities,
and common honesty. But in the choice of a Recorder, the case is entirely different. He ought
to be a person of good abilities in his calling; of an unspotted character; an able practitioner;
one who hath occasionally merited of this city before; he ought to be of some maturity in years;
a member of Parliament, and likely to continue so; regular in his life; firm in his loyalty
to the Hanover succession; indulgent to tender consciences; but, at the same time, a firm adherer
to the established church. If he be such a one who hath already sat in Parliament, it ought
to be inquired of what weight he was there; whether he voted on all occasions for the good
of his country; and particularly for advancing the trade and freedom of this city; whether
he be engaged in any faction, either national or religious; and, lastly, whether he be a man
of courage, not to be drawn from his duty by the frown or menaces of power, nor capable to
be corrupted by allurements or bribes.--These, and many other particulars, are of infinitely
more consequence, than that single circumstance of being descended by a direct or collateral
line from any Alderman, or distinguished citizen, dead or alive.

There is not a dealer or shopkeeper in this city, of any substance, whose thriving, less or
more, may not depend upon the good or ill conduct of a Recorder. He is to watch every motion
in Parliament that may the least affect the freedom, trade, or welfare of it.

In this approaching election, the commons, as they are a numerous body, so they seem to be
most concerned in point of interest; and their interest ought to be most regarded, because
it altogether dependeth upon the true interest of the city. They have no private views; and
giving their votes, as I am informed, by balloting, they lie under no awe, or fear of disobliging
competitors. It is therefore hoped that they will duly consider, which of the candidates is
most likely to advance the trade of themselves and their brother-citizens; to defend their
liberties, both in and out of Parliament, against all attempts of encroachment or oppression.
And so God direct them in the choice of a Recorder, who may for many years supply that important
office with skill, diligence, courage, and fidelity. And let all the people say, Amen.

A PROPOSAL

FOR GIVING

BADGES TO THE BEGGARS IN ALL THE PARISHES OF DUBLIN.

     NOTE.

     The "badging" of beggars was a favourite scheme of Swift's for the
     better regulation of the many who infested the city of Dublin as
     tramps and idlers. While many of these were really deserving
     persons, there were a great many also who made the business of
     begging a profession. Eleven years before this tract was printed
     Swift wrote to Archbishop King on the same subject, as will be seen
     from the letter quoted in the note on pages 326-327.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The present text is based on the original edition of 1737 collated
     with that given by Sir Walter Scott.

     [T. S.]

A

PROPOSAL

FOR GIVING

BADGES

TO THE

BEGGARS

IN ALL THE

PARISHES of DUBLIN.

BY THE

DEAN of St. PATRICK's

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON,

Printed for T. COOPER at the Globe in Pater Noster Row.

MDCCXXXVII.

Price Six Pence.

It hath been a general complaint, that the poor-house, especially since the new Constitution
by Act of Parliament, hath been of no benefit to this city, for the ease of which it was wholly
intended. I had the honour to be a member of it many years before it was new modelled by the
legislature, not from any personal regard, but merely as one of the two deans, who are of course
put into most commissions that relate to the city; and I have likewise the honour to have been
left out of several commissions upon the score of party, in which my predecessors, time out
of mind, have always been members.

The first commission was made up of about fifty persons, which were the Lord Mayor, Aldermen,
and Sheriffs, and some few other citizens; the Judges, the two Archbishops, the two Deans of
the city, and one or two more gentlemen. And I must confess my opinion, that the dissolving
the old commission, and establishing a new one of nearly three times the number, have been
the great cause of rendering so good a design not only useless, but a grievance instead of
a benefit to the city. In the present commission all the city clergy are included, besides
a great number of 'squires, not only those who reside in Dublin, and the neighbourhood, but
several who live at a great distance, and cannot possibly have the least concern for the advantage
of the city.

At the few general meetings that I have attended since the new Establishment, I observed very
little was done, except one or two Acts of extreme justice, which I then thought might as well
have been spared: and I have found the Court of Assistants usually taken up in little brangles
about coachmen, or adjusting accounts of meal and small beer; which, however necessary, might
sometimes have given place to matters of much greater moment, I mean some schemes recommended
to the General Board, for answering the chief ends in erecting and establishing such a poor-house,
and endowing it with so considerable a revenue: and the principal end I take to have been that
of maintaining the poor and orphans of the city, where the parishes are not able to do it;
and clearing the streets from all strollers, foreigners, and sturdy beggars, with which, to
the universal complaint and admiration, Dublin is more infested since the Establishment of
the poor-house, than it was ever known to be since its first erection.

As the whole fund for supporting this hospital is raised only from the inhabitants of the city,
so there can be hardly any thing more absurd, than to see it mis-employed in maintaining foreign
beggars and bastards, or orphans, whose country landlords never contributed one shilling towards
their support. I would engage, that half this revenue, if employed with common care, and no
very great degree of common honesty, would maintain all the real objects of charity in this
city, except a small number of original poor in every parish, who might, without being burthensome
to the parishioners, find a tolerable support.

I have for some years past applied myself to several Lord Mayors, and to the late Archbishop
of Dublin[189], for a remedy to this evil of foreign beggars; and they all appeared ready to
receive a very plain proposal, I mean, that of badging the original poor of every parish, who
begged in the streets;[190] that the said beggars should be confined to their own parishes;
that, they should wear their badges well sewn upon one of their shoulders, always visible,
on pain of being whipped and turned out of town; or whatever legal punishment may be thought
proper and effectual. But, by the wrong way of thinking in some clergymen, and the indifference
of others, this method was perpetually defeated, to their own continual disquiet, which they
do not ill deserve; and if the grievance affected only them, it would be of less consequence,
because the remedy is in their own power. But all street-walkers, and shopkeepers bear an equal
share in this hourly vexation.

I never heard more than one objection against this expedient of badging the poor, and confining
their walks to their several parishes. The objection was this: What shall we do with the foreign
beggars? Must they be left to starve? I answered, No; but they must be driven or whipped out
of town; and let the next country parish do as they please; or rather after the practice in
England, send them from one parish to another, until they reach their own homes. By the old
laws of England still in force, and I presume by those of Ireland, every parish is bound to
maintain its own poor; and the matter is of no such consequence in this point as some would
make it, whether a country parish be rich or poor. In the remoter and poorer parishes of the
kingdom, all necessaries for life proper for poor people are comparatively cheaper; I mean
butter-milk, oatmeal, potatoes, and other vegetables; and every farmer or cottager, who is
not himself a beggar, can sometimes spare a sup or a morsel, not worth the fourth part of a
farthing, to an indigent neighbour of his own parish, who is disabled from work. A beggar native
of the parish is known to the 'squire, to the church minister, to the popish priest, or the
conventicle teachers, as well as to every farmer: he hath generally some relations able to
live, and contribute something to his maintenance. None of which advantages can be reasonably
expected on a removal to places where he is altogether unknown. If he be not quite maimed,
he and his trull, and litter of brats (if he hath any) may get half their support by doing
some kind of work in their power, and thereby be less burthensome to the people. In short,
all necessaries of life grow in the country, and not in cities, and are cheaper where they
grow; nor is it equal, that beggars should put us to the charge of giving them victuals, and
the carriage too.

But, when the spirit of wandering takes him, attended by his female, and their equipage of
children, he becomes a nuisance to the whole country: he and his female are thieves, and teach
the trade of stealing to their brood at four years old; and if his infirmities be counterfeit,
it is dangerous for a single person unarmed to meet him on the road. He wanders from one county
to another, but still with a view to this town, whither he arrives at last, and enjoys all
the privileges of a Dublin beggar.

I do not wonder that the country 'squires should be very willing to send up their colonies;
but why the city should be content to receive them, is beyond my imagination.

If the city were obliged by their charter to maintain a thousand beggars, they could do it
cheaper by eighty per cent. a hundred miles off, than in this town, or any of its suburbs.

There is no village in Connaught, that in proportion shares so deeply in the daily increasing
miseries of Ireland, as its capital city; to which miseries there hardly remained any addition,
except the perpetual swarms of foreign beggars, who might be banished in a month without expense,
and with very little trouble.

As I am personally acquainted with a great number of street beggars, I find some weak attempts
to have been made in one or two parishes to promote the wearing of badges; and my first question
to those who ask an alms, is, Where is your badge? I have in several years met with about a
dozen who were ready to produce them, some out of their pockets, others from under their coat,
and two or three on their shoulders, only covered with a sort of capes which they could lift
up or let down upon occasion. They are too lazy to work, they are not afraid to steal, nor
ashamed to beg; and yet are too proud to be seen with a badge, as many of them have confessed
to me, and not a few in very injurious terms, particularly the females. They all look upon
such an obligation as a high indignity done to their office. I appeal to all indifferent people,
whether such wretches deserve to be relieved. As to myself, I must confess, this absurd insolence
hath so affected me, that for several years past, I have not disposed of one single farthing
to a street beggar, nor intend to do so, until I see a better regulation; and I have endeavoured
to persuade all my brother-walkers to follow my example, which most of them assure me they
do. For, if beggary be not able to beat out pride, it cannot deserve charity. However, as to
persons in coaches and chairs, they bear but little of the persecution we suffer, and are willing
to leave it entirely upon us.

To say the truth, there is not a more undeserving vicious race of human kind than the bulk
of those who are reduced to beggary, even in this beggarly country. For, as a great part of
our publick miseries is originally owing to our own faults (but, what those faults are I am
grown by experience too wary to mention) so I am confident, that among the meaner people, nineteen
in twenty of those who are reduced to a starving condition, did not become so by what lawyers
call the work of GOD, either upon their bodies or goods; but merely from their own idleness,
attended with all manner of vices, particularly drunkenness, thievery, and cheating.

Whoever enquires, as I have frequently done, from those who have asked me an alms; what was
their former course of life, will find them to have been servants in good families, broken
tradesmen, labourers, cottagers, and what they call decayed house-keepers; but (to use their
own cant) reduced by losses and crosses, by which nothing can be understood but idleness and vice.

As this is the only Christian country where people contrary to the old maxim, are the poverty
and not the riches of the nation, so, the blessing of increase and multiply is by us converted
into a curse; and, as marriage hath been ever countenanced in all free countries, so we should
be less miserable if it were discouraged in ours, as far as can be consistent with Christianity.
It is seldom known in England, that the labourer, the lower mechanick, the servant, or the
cottager thinks of marrying until he hath saved up a stock of money sufficient to carry on
his business; nor takes a wife without a suitable portion; and as seldom fails of making a
yearly addition to that stock, with a view of providing for his children. But, in this kingdom,
the case is directly contrary, where many thousand couples are yearly married, whose whole
united fortunes, bating the rags on their backs, would not be sufficient to purchase a pint
of butter-milk for their wedding supper, nor have any prospect of supporting their honourable
state, but by service, or labour, or thievery. Nay, their happiness is often deferred until
they find credit to borrow, or cunning to steal a shilling to pay their Popish priest, or infamous
couple-beggar. Surely no miraculous portion of wisdom would be required to find some kind of
remedy against this destructive evil, or at least, not to draw the consequences of it upon
our decaying city; the greatest part whereof must of course in a few years become desolate,
or in ruins.

In all other nations, that are not absolutely barbarous, parents think themselves bound by
the law of nature and reason to make some provision for their children; but the reasons offered
by the inhabitants of Ireland for marrying is, that they may have children to maintain them
when they grow old and unable to work.

I am informed that we have been for some time past extremely obliged to England for one very
beneficial branch of commerce: for, it seems they are grown so gracious as to transmit us continually
colonies of beggars, in return of a million of money they receive yearly from hence. That I
may give no offence, I profess to mean real English beggars in the literal meaning of the word,
as it is usually understood by protestants. It seems, the Justices of the Peace and parish
officers in the western coasts of England, have a good while followed the trade of exporting
hither their supernumerary beggars, in order to advance the English Protestant interest among
us; and, these they are so kind to send over gratis, and duty free. I have had the honour more
than once to attend large cargoes of them from Chester to Dublin: and I was then so ignorant
as to give my opinion, that our city should receive them into bridewell, and after a month's
residence, having been well whipped twice a day, fed with bran and water, and put to hard labour,
they should be returned honestly back with thanks as cheap as they came: or, if that were not
approved of, I proposed, that whereas one English man is allowed to be of equal intrinsic value
with twelve born in Ireland, we should in justice return them a dozen for one, to dispose of
as they pleased. But to return.

As to the native poor of this city, there would be little or no damage in confining them to
their several parishes. For instance; a beggar of the parish of St. Warborough's,[191] or any
other parish here, if he be an object of compassion, hath an equal chance to receive his proportion
of alms from every charitable hand; because the inhabitants, one or other, walk through every
street in town, and give their alms, without considering the place, wherever they think it
may be well disposed of: and these helps, added to what they get in eatables by going from
house to house among the gentry and citizens, will, without being very burthensome, be sufficient
to keep them alive.

It is true, the poor of the suburb parishes will not have altogether the same advantage, because
they are not equally in the road of business and passengers: but here it is to be considered,
that the beggars there have not so good a title to publick charity, because most of them are
strollers from the country, and compose a principal part of that great nuisance, which we ought
to remove.

I should be apt to think, that few things can be more irksome to a city minister, than a number
of beggars which do not belong to his district, whom he hath no obligation to take care of,
who are no part of his flock, and who take the bread out of the mouths of those, to whom it
properly belongs. When I mention this abuse to any minister of a city-parish, he usually lays
the fault upon the beadles, who he says are bribed by the foreign beggars; and, as those beadles
often keep ale-houses, they find their account in such customers. This evil might easily be
remedied, if the parishes would make some small addition to the salaries of a beadle, and be
more careful in the choice of those officers. But, I conceive there is one effectual method,
in the power of every minister to put in practice; I mean, by making it the interest of all
his own original poor, to drive out intruders: for, if the parish-beggars were absolutely forbidden
by the minister and church-officers, to suffer strollers to come into the parish, upon pain
of themselves not being permitted to beg alms at the church-doors, or at the houses and shops
of the inhabitants; they would prevent interlopers more effectually than twenty beadles.

And, here I cannot but take notice of the great indiscretion in our city-shopkeepers, who suffer
their doors to be daily besieged by crowds of beggars, (as the gates of a lord are by duns,)
to the great disgust and vexation of many customers, whom I have frequently observed to go
to other shops, rather than suffer such a persecution; which might easily be avoided, if no
foreign beggars were allowed to infest them.

Wherefore, I do assert, that the shopkeepers, who are the greatest complainers of this grievance,
lamenting that for every customer, they are worried by fifty beggars, do very well deserve
what they suffer, when a 'prentice with a horse-whip is able to lash every beggar from the
shop, who is not of the parish, and does not wear the badge of that parish on his shoulder,
well fastened and fairly visible; and if this practice were universal in every house to all
the sturdy vagrants, we should in a few weeks clear the town of all mendicants, except those
who have a proper title to our charity: as for the aged and infirm, it would be sufficient
to give them nothing, and then they must starve or follow their brethren.

It was the city that first endowed this hospital, and those who afterwards contributed, as
they were such who generally inhabited here; so they intended what they gave to be for the
use of the city's poor. The revenues which have since been raised by parliament, are wholly
paid by the city, without the least charge upon any other part of the kingdom; and therefore
nothing could more defeat the original design, than to misapply those revenues on strolling
beggars, or bastards from the country, which bear no share in the charges we are at.

If some of the out-parishes be overburthened with poor, the reason must be, that the greatest
part of those poor are strollers from the country, who nestle themselves where they can find
the cheapest lodgings, and from thence infest every part of the town, out of which they ought
to be whipped as a most insufferable nuisance, being nothing else but a profligate clan of
thieves, drunkards, heathens, and whore-mongers, fitter to be rooted out of the face of the
earth, than suffered to levy a vast annual tax upon the city, which shares too deep in the
public miseries, brought on us by the oppressions we lye under from our neighbours, our brethren,
our countrymen, our fellow protestants, and fellow subjects.

Some time ago I was appointed one of a committee to inquire into the state of the workhouse;
where we found that a charity was bestowed by a great person for a certain time, which in its
consequences operated very much to the detriment of the house: for, when the time was elapsed,
all those who were supported by that charity, continued on the same foot with the rest of the
foundation; and being generally a pack of profligate vagabond wretches from several parts of
the kingdom, corrupted all the rest; so partial, or treacherous, or interested, or ignorant,
or mistaken are generally all recommenders, not only to employments, but even to charity itself.

I know it is complained, that the difficulty of driving foreign beggars out of the city is
charged upon the bellowers (as they are called) who find their accounts best in suffering those
vagrants to follow their trade through every part of the town. But this abuse might easily
be remedied, and very much to the advantage of the whole city, if better salaries were given
to those who execute that office in the several parishes, and would make it their interest
to clear the town of those caterpillars, rather than hazard the loss of an employment that
would give them an honest livelyhood. But, if that would fail, yet a general resolution of
never giving charity to a street beggar out of his own parish, or without a visible badge,
would infallibly force all vagrants to depart.

There is generally a vagabond spirit in beggars, which ought to be discouraged and severely
punished. It is owing to the same causes that drove them into poverty; I mean, idleness, drunkenness,
and rash marriages without the least prospect of supporting a family by honest endeavours,
which never came into their thoughts. It is observed, that hardly one beggar in twenty looks
upon himself to be relieved by receiving bread or other food; and they have in this town been
frequently seen to pour out of their pitcher good broth that hath been given them, into the
kennel; neither do they much regard clothes, unless to sell them; for their rags are part of
their tools with which they work: they want only ale, brandy, and other strong liquors, which
cannot be had without money; and, money as they conceive, always abounds in the metropolis.

I had some other thoughts to offer upon this subject. But, as I am a desponder in my nature,
and have tolerably well discovered the disposition of our people, who never will move a step
towards easing themselves from any one single grievance; it will be thought, that I have already
said too much, and to little or no purpose; which hath often been the fate, or fortune of the
writer,

                                                      J. SWIFT.

  April 22,
   1737.

CONSIDERATIONS

ABOUT MAINTAINING THE POOR.

     NOTE.

     The text of this short paper is taken from Deane Swift's edition,
     which was followed by Sir Walter Scott.

     [T. S.]

CONSIDERATIONS ABOUT MAINTAINING THE POOR.

We have been amused, for at least thirty years past, with numberless schemes, in writing and
discourse, both in and out of Parliament, for maintaining the poor, and setting them to work,
especially in this city: most of which were idle, indigested, or visionary; and all of them
ineffectual, as it has plainly appeared by the consequences. Many of those projectors were
so stupid, that they drew a parallel from Holland to England, to be settled in Ireland; that
is to say, from two countries with full freedom and encouragement for trade, to a third where
all kind of trade is cramped, and the most beneficial parts are entirely taken away. But the
perpetual infelicity of false and foolish reasoning, as well as proceeding and acting upon
it, seems to be fatal to this country.

For my own part, who have much conversed with those folks who call themselves merchants, I
do not remember to have met with a more ignorant and wrong-thinking race of people in the very
first rudiments of trade; which, however, was not so much owing to their want of capacity,
as to the crazy constitution of this kingdom, where pedlars are better qualified to thrive
than the wisest merchants. I could fill a volume with only setting down a list of the public
absurdities, by which this kingdom has suffered within the compass of my own memory, such as
could not be believed of any nation, among whom folly was not established as a law. I cannot
forbear instancing a few of these, because it may be of some use to those who shall have it
in their power to be more cautious for the future.

The first was, the building of the barracks; whereof I have seen above one-half, and have heard
enough of the rest, to affirm that the public has been cheated of at least two-thirds of the
money raised for that use, by the plain fraud of the undertakers.

Another was the management of the money raised for the Palatines; when, instead of employing
that great sum in purchasing lands in some remote and cheap part of the kingdom, and there
planting those people as a colony, the whole end was utterly defeated.

A third is, the insurance office against fire, by which several thousand pounds are yearly
remitted to England, (a trifle, it seems, we can easily spare,) and will gradually increase
until it comes to a good national tax: for the society-marks upon our houses (under which might
properly be written, "The Lord have mercy upon us!") spread faster and farther than the colony
of frogs.[192] I have, for above twenty years past, given warning several thousand times to
many substantial people, and to such who are acquainted with lords and squires, and the like
great folks, to any of whom I have not the honour to be known: I mentioned my daily fears,
lest our watchful friends in England might take this business out of our hands; and how easy
it would be to prevent that evil, by erecting a society of persons who had good estates, such,
for instance, as that noble knot of bankers, under the style of "Swift and Company." But now
we are become tributary to England, not only for materials to light our own fires, but for
engines to put them out; to which, if hearth-money be added, (repealed in England as a grievance,)
we have the honour to pay three taxes for fire.

A fourth was the knavery of those merchants, or linen-manufacturers, or both, when, upon occasion
of the plague at Marseilles, we had a fair opportunity of getting into our hands the whole
linen-trade of Spain; but the commodity was so bad, and held at so high a rate, that almost
the whole cargo was returned, and the small remainder sold below the prime cost.

So many other particulars of the same nature crowd into my thoughts, that I am forced to stop;
and the rather because they are not very proper for my subject, to which I shall now return.

Among all the schemes for maintaining the poor of the city, and setting them to work, the least
weight has been laid upon that single point which is of the greatest importance; I mean, that
of keeping foreign beggars from swarming hither out of every part of the country; for, until
this be brought to pass effectually, all our wise reasonings and proceedings upon them will
be vain and ridiculous.

The prodigious number of beggars throughout this kingdom, in proportion to so small a number
of people, is owing to many reasons: to the laziness of the natives; the want of work to employ
them; the enormous rents paid by cottagers for their miserable cabins and potatoe-plots; their
early marriages, without the least prospect of establishment; the ruin of agriculture, whereby
such vast numbers are hindered from providing their own bread, and have no money to purchase
it; the mortal damp upon all kinds of trade, and many other circumstances, too tedious or invidious
to mention.

And to the same causes we owe the perpetual concourse of foreign beggars to this town, the
country landlords giving all assistance, except money and victuals, to drive from their estates
those miserable creatures they have undone.

It was a general complaint against the poor-house, under its former governors, "That the number
of poor in this city did not lessen by taking three hundred into the house, and all of them
recommended under the minister's and churchwardens' hands of the several parishes": and this
complaint must still continue, although the poor-house should be enlarged to contain three
thousand, or even double that number.

The revenues of the poor-house, as it is now established, amount to about two thousand pounds
a-year; whereof two hundred allowed for officers, and one hundred for repairs, the remaining
seventeen hundred, at four pounds a-head, will support four hundred and twenty-five persons.
This is a favourable allowance, considering that I subtract nothing for the diet of those officers,
and for wear and tear of furniture; and if every one of these collegiates should be set to
work, it is agreed they will not be able to gain by their labour above one-fourth part of their
maintenance.

At the same time, the oratorial part of these gentlemen seldom vouchsafe to mention fewer than
fifteen hundred or two thousand people, to be maintained in this hospital, without troubling
their heads about the fund. * * * *

ON BARBAROUS DENOMINATIONS

IN IRELAND.

 SIR,

I have been lately looking over the advertisements in some of your Dublin newspapers, which
are sent me to the country, and was much entertained with a large list of denominations of
lands, to be sold or let. I am confident they must be genuine; for it is impossible that either
chance or modern invention could sort the alphabet in such a manner as to make those abominable
sounds; whether first invented to invoke or fright away the devil, I must leave among the curious.

If I could wonder at anything barbarous, ridiculous, or absurd, among us, this should be one
of the first. I have often lamented that Agricola, the father-in-law of Tacitus, was not prevailed
on by that petty king from Ireland, who followed his camp, to come over and civilize us with
a conquest, as his countrymen did Britain, where several Roman appellations remain to this
day, and so would the rest have done, if that inundation of Angles, Saxons, and other northern
people, had not changed them so much for the worse, although in no comparison with ours. In
one of the advertisements just mentioned, I encountered near a hundred words together, which
I defy any creature in human shape, except an Irishman of the savage kind, to pronounce; neither
would I undertake such a task, to be owner of the lands, unless I had liberty to humanize the
syllables twenty miles round. The legislature may think what they please, and that they are
above copying the Romans in all their conquests of barbarous nations; but I am deceived, if
anything has more contributed to prevent the Irish from being tamed, than this encouragement
of their language, which might be easily abolished, and become a dead one in half an age, with
little expense, and less trouble.

How is it possible that a gentleman who lives in those parts where the town-lands (as they
call them) of his estate produce such odious sounds from the mouth, the throat, and the nose,
can be able to repeat the words without dislocating every muscle that is used in speaking,
and without applying the same tone to all other words, in every language he understands; as
it is plainly to be observed not only in those people of the better sort who live in Galway
and the Western parts, but in most counties of Ireland?

It is true, that, in the city parts of London, the trading people have an affected manner of
pronouncing; and so, in my time, had many ladies and coxcombs at Court. It is likewise true,
that there is an odd provincial cant in most counties in England, sometimes not very pleasing
to the ear; and the Scotch cadence, as well as expression, are offensive enough. But none of
these defects derive contempt to the speaker: whereas, what we call the Irish brogue is no
sooner discovered, than it makes the deliverer in the last degree ridiculous and despised;
and, from such a mouth, an Englishman expects nothing but bulls, blunders, and follies. Neither
does it avail whether the censure be reasonable or not, since the fact is always so.

I have heard many gentlemen among us talk much of the great convenience to those who live in
the country, that they should speak Irish. It may possibly be so; but I think they should be
such who never intend to visit England, upon pain of being ridiculous; for I do not remember
to have heard of any one man that spoke Irish, who had not the accent upon his tongue easily
discernible to any English ear.

But I have wandered a little from my subject, which was only to propose a wish that these execrable
denominations were a little better suited to an English mouth, if it were only for the sake
of the English lawyers; who, in trials upon appeals to the House of Lords, find so much difficulty
in repeating the names, that, if the plaintiff or defendant were by, they would never be able
to discover which were their own lands. But, besides this, I would desire, not only that the
appellations of what they call town-lands were changed, but likewise of larger districts, and
several towns, and some counties; and particularly the seats of country-gentlemen, leaving
an alias to solve all difficulties in point of law. But I would by no means trust these alterations
to the owners themselves; who, as they are generally no great clerks, so they seem to have
no large vocabulary about them, nor to be well skilled in prosody. The utmost extent of their
genius lies in naming their country habitation by a hill, a mount, a brook, a burrow, a castle,
a bawn, a ford, and the like ingenious conceits. Yet these are exceeded by others, whereof
some have contrived anagramatical appellations, from half their own and their wives' names
joined together: others only from the lady; as, for instance, a person whose wife's name was
Elizabeth, calls his seat by the name of Bess-borow. There is likewise a famous town, where
the worst iron in the kingdom is made, and it is called Swandlingbar: the original of which
name I shall explain, lest the antiquaries of future ages might be at a loss to derive it.
It was a most witty conceit of four gentlemen, who ruined themselves with this iron project.
Sw. stands for Swift,[193] And, for Sanders, Ling for Davling and Bar. for Barry. Methinks
I see the four loggerheads sitting in consult, like Smectymnuus, each gravely contributing
a part of his own name, to make up one for their place in the ironwork; and could wish they
had been hanged, as well as undone, for their wit. But I was most pleased with the denomination
of a town-land, which I lately saw in an advertisement of Pue's paper: "This is to give notice,
that the lands of Douras, alias WHIG-borough," &c. Now, this zealous proprietor, having a mind
to record his principles in religion or loyalty to future ages, within five miles round him,
for want of other merit, thought fit to make use of this expedient: wherein he seems to mistake
his account; for this distinguishing term, whig, had a most infamous original, denoting a man
who favoured the fanatic sect, and an enemy to kings, and so continued till this idea was a
little softened, some years after the Revolution, and during a part of her late Majesty's reign.
After which it was in disgrace until the Queen's death, since which time it hath indeed flourished
with a witness: But how long will it continue so, in our variable scene, or what kind of mortal
it may describe, is a question which this courtly landlord is not able to answer; and therefore
he should have set a date on the title of his borough, to let us know what kind of a creature
a whig was in that year of our Lord. I would readily assist nomenclators of this costive imagination,
and therefore I propose to others of the same size in thinking, that, when they are at a loss
about christening a country-seat, instead of straining their invention, they would call it
Booby-borough, Fool-brook, Puppy-ford, Coxcomb-hall, Mount-loggerhead, Dunce-hill; which are
innocent appellations, proper to express the talents of the owners. But I cannot reconcile
myself to the prudence of this lord of WHIG-borough, because I have not yet heard, among the
Presbyterian squires, how much soever their persons and principles are in vogue, that any of
them have distinguished their country abode by the name of Mount-regicide, Covenant-hall, Fanatic-hill,
Roundhead-bawn, Canting-brook, or Mont-rebel, and the like; because there may probably come
a time when those kind of sounds may not be so grateful to the ears of the kingdom. For I do
not conceive it would be a mark of discretion, upon supposing a gentleman, in allusion to his
name, or the merit of his ancestors, to call his house Tyburn-hall.

But the scheme I would propose for changing the denominations of land into legible and audible
syllables, is by employing some gentlemen in the University; who, by the knowledge of the Latin
tongue, and their judgment in sounds, might imitate the Roman way, by translating those hideous
words into their English meanings, and altering the termination where a bare translation will
not form a good cadence to the ear, or be easily delivered from the mouth. And, when both those
means happen to fail, then to name the parcels of land from the nature of the soil, or some
peculiar circumstance belonging to it; as, in England, Farn-ham, Oat-lands, Black-heath, Corn-bury,
Rye-gate, Ash-burnham, Barn-elms, Cole-orton, Sand-wich, and many others.

I am likewise apt to quarrel with some titles of lords among us, that have a very ungracious
sound, which are apt to communicate mean ideas to those who have not the honour to be acquainted
with their persons or their virtues, of whom I have the misfortune to be one. But I cannot
pardon those gentlemen who have gotten titles since the judicature of the peers among us has
been taken away, to which they all submitted with a resignation that became good Christians,
as undoubtedly they are. However, since that time, I look upon a graceful harmonious title
to be at least forty per cent. in the value intrinsic of an Irish peerage; and, since it is
as cheap as the worst, for any Irish law hitherto enacted in England to the contrary, I would
advise the next set, before they pass their patents, to call a consultation of scholars and
musical gentlemen, to adjust this most important and essential circumstance. The Scotch noblemen,
though born almost under the north pole, have much more tunable appellations, except some very
few, which I suppose were given them by the Irish along with their language, at the time when
that kingdom was conquered and planted from hence; and to this day retain the denominations
of places, and surnames of families, as all historians agree.[194]

I should likewise not be sorry, if the names of some bishops' sees were so much obliged to
the alphabet, that upon pronouncing them we might contract some veneration for the order and
persons of those reverend peers, which the gross ideas sometimes joined to their titles are
very unjustly apt to diminish.

SPEECH DELIVERED BY DEAN SWIFT

TO AN ASSEMBLY OF MERCHANTS MET AT THE GUILDHALL,

TO DRAW UP A PETITION TO THE LORD LIEUTENANT

ON THE LOWERING OF COIN,

APRIL 24TH, 1736.

     NOTE.

     Writing to Sheridan, under date April 24th, 1736, in a letter
     written partly by herself and partly by Swift, Mrs. Whiteway,
     Swift's housekeeper, refers to the occasion of this speech in the
     following words:

     "The Drapier went this day to the Tholsel[195] as a merchant, to
     sign a petition to the government against lowering the gold, where
     we hear he made a long speech, for which he will be reckoned a
     Jacobite. God send hanging does not go round." (Scott's edition,
     vol. xviii., p. 470. 1824.)

     The occasion for this agitation against the lowering of the gold
     arose thus. Archbishop Boulter had, for a long time, been much
     concerned about the want of small silver in Ireland. The subject
     seemed to weigh on him greatly, since he refers to it again and
     again in his correspondence with Carteret, Newcastle, Dorset, and
     Walpole. On May 25th, 1736, he wrote to Walpole to inform him that
     the Lord Lieutenant had taken with him to England "an application
     from the government for lowering the gold made current here, by
     proclamation, and raising the foreign silver." Silver, being
     scarce, bankers and tradesmen were accustomed to charge a premium
     for the changing of gold, as much as sixpence and sevenpence in the
     pound sterling being obtained. (See Boulter's "Letters," vol. ii.,
     p. 122. Dublin, 1770.)

     There was no question about the benefit of Boulter's scheme in the
     minds of the two Houses of Commons and Lords: Swift, however,
     opposed it vehemently, because he thought the advantage to be
     obtained by this lowering of the gold would accrue to the
     absentees. In 1687 James had issued a proclamation by which an
     English shilling was made the equivalent of thirteen pence in
     Ireland, and an English guinea to twenty-four shillings. Primate
     Boulter's object (gained by the proclamation of the order on
     September 29th, 1737) was to reduce the value of the guinea from
     twenty-three shillings (at which it then stood) to £1 2s. 9d.
     Swift, thinks Monck Mason, considered the absentees would benefit
     by this "from the circumstances of the reserved rents, being
     expressed in the imaginary coin, called a pound, but actually paid
     in guineas, when the value of guineas was lowered, it required a
     proportionately greater number to make up a specific sum" ("History
     of St. Patrick's," p. 401, note c.)

     Swift, as he wrote to Sheridan, "battled in vain with the duke and
     his clan." He thought it "just a kind of settlement upon England of
     £25,000 a year for ever; yet some of my friends," he goes on to
     say, "differ from me, though all agree that the absentees will be
     just so much gainers." (Letter of date May 22nd, 1737.)

     In a note to Boulter's letter to the Duke of Newcastle (September
     29th, 1737) the editor of those letters (Ambrose Phillips) remarks:
     "Such a spirit of opposition had been raised on this occasion by
     Dean Swift and the bankers, that it was thought proper to lodge at
     the Primate's house, an extraordinary guard of soldiers." This,
     probably, was after the open exchange of words between Boulter and
     Swift. The Primate had accused Swift of inflaming the minds of the
     people, and hinted broadly that he might incur the displeasure of
     the government. "I inflame them!" retorted Swift, "had I but lifted
     my finger, they would have torn you to pieces." The day of the
     proclaiming of the order for the lowering of the gold was marked by
     Swift with the display of a black flag from the steeple of St.
     Patrick's, and the tolling of muffled bells, a piece of conduct
     which Boulter called an insult to the government.

     It is à propos to record here the revenge Swift took on Boulter
     for the accusation of inflaming the people. The incident was put by
     him into the following verse:

       "At Dublin's high feast sat primate and dean,
       Both dressed like divines, with hand and face clean:
       Quoth Hugh of Armagh, 'the mob is grown bold.'
       'Ay, ay,' quoth the Dean, 'the cause is old gold.'
       'No, no,' quoth the primate, 'if causes we sift,
       The mischief arises from witty Dean Swift.'
       The smart one replies, 'There's no wit in the case;
       And nothing of that ever troubled your grace.
       Though with your state sieve your own motions you s--t,
       A Boulter by name is no bolter of wit.
       It's matter of weight, and a mere money job;
       But the lower the coin, the higher the mob.
       Go to tell your friend Bob and the other great folk,
       That sinking the coin is a dangerous joke.
       The Irish dear joys have enough common sense,
       To treat gold reduced like Wood's copper pence.
       It's pity a prelate should die without law;
       But if I say the word--take care of Armagh!"

     With the lowering of the gold the Primate imported £2,000 worth of
     copper money for Irish consumption. Swift was most indignant at
     this, and his protest, printed by Faulkner, brought that publisher
     before the Council, and gave Swift a fit of "nerves." (MS. Letter,
     March 31st, 1737, to Lord Orrery, quoted by Craik in Swift's
     "Life," vol. ii., p. 160.) Swift's objection against the copper was
     due to the fact that it was not minted in Ireland. "I quarrel not
     with the coin, but with the indignity of its not being coined
     here."

     At the end of this tract is printed Swift's speech to "an Assembly
     of above one Hundred and fifty eminent persons who met at the Guild
     Hall, on Saturday the 24th April, 1736, in order to draw up their
     Petition, and present it to his grace the Lord Lieutenant against
     lowering said Coin." It is from this tract that the present text
     has been taken. The editor is obliged to Sir Henry Craik's "Life of
     Swift" for drawing attention to this hitherto uncollected piece.

     [T. S.]

SPEECH DELIVERED ON THE LOWERING OF THE COIN.

I beg you will consider and very well weigh in your hearts, what I am going to say and what
I have often said before. There are several bodies of men, among whom the power of this kingdom
is divided--1st, The Lord-Lieutenant, Lords Justices and Council; next to these, my Lords the
Bishops; there is likewise my Lord Chancellor, and my Lords the Judges of the land--with other
eminent persons in the land, who have employments and great salaries annexed. To these must
be added the Commissioners of the Revenue, with all their under officers: and lastly, their
honours of the Army, of all degrees.

Now, Gentlemen, I beg you again to consider that none of these persons above named, can ever
suffer the loss of one farthing by all the miseries under which the kingdom groans at present.
For, first, until the kingdom be entirely ruined, the Lord-Lieutenant and Lords Justices must
have their salaries. My Lords the Bishops, whose lands are set at a fourth part value, will
be sure of their rents and their fines. My Lords the Judges and those of other employments
in the country must likewise have their salaries. The gentlemen of the revenue will pay themselves,
and as to the officers of the army, the consequence of not paying them is obvious enough. Nay,
so far will those persons I have already mentioned be from suffering, that, on the contrary,
their revenues being no way lessened by the fall of money, and the price of all commodities
considerably sunk thereby, they must be great gainers. Therefore, Gentlemen, I do entreat you
that as long as you live, you will look on all persons who are for lowering the gold, or any
other coin, as no friends to this poor kingdom, but such, who find their private account in
what will be detrimental to Ireland. And as the absentees are, in the strongest view, our greatest
enemies, first by consuming above one-half of the rents of this nation abroad, and secondly
by turning the weight, by their absence, so much on the Popish side, by weakening the Protestant
interest, can there be a greater folly than to pave a bridge of gold at your own expense, to
support them in their luxury and vanity abroad, while hundreds of thousands are starving at
home for want of employment.

MISCELLANEOUS PIECES.

IRISH ELOQUENCE.[196]

I hope you will come and take a drink of my ale. I always brew with my own bear. I was at your
large Toun's house, in the county of Fermanegh. He has planted a great many oak trees, and
elm trees round his lough: And a good warrent he had, it is kind father for him, I stayd with
him a week. At breakfast we had sometimes sowins, and sometimes stirrabout, and sometimes fraughauns
and milk; but his cows would hardly give a drop of milk. For his head had lost the pachaun.
His neighbour Squire Dolt is a meer buddaugh. I'd give a cow in Conaught you could see him.
He keeps none but garrauns, and he rides on a soogaun with nothing for his bridle but gadd.
In that, he is a meer spaulpeen, and a perfect Monaghan, and a Munster Croch to the bargain.
Without you saw him on Sunday you would take him for a Brogadeer and a spaned to a carl did
not know had to draw butter. We drank balcan and whisky out of madders. And the devil a niglugam
had but a caddao. I wonder your cozen does na learn him better manners. Your cousin desires
you will buy him some cheney cups. I remember he had a great many; I wonder what is gone with
them. I coshered on him for a week. He has a fine staggard of corn. His dedy has been very
unwell. I was sorry that anything ayl her father's child.

Firing is very dear thereabout. The turf is drawn tuo near in Kislers; and they send new rounds
from the mines, nothing comes in the Cleeves but stock. We had a sereroar of beef, and once
a runy for dinner.

A DIALOGUE IN HIBERNIAN STYLE BETWEEN A. AND B.[197]

A. Them aples is very good.

B. I cam again you in that.

A. Lord I was bodderd t'other day with that prating fool, Tom.

B. Pray, how does he get his health?

A. He's often very unwell.

B. [I] hear he was a great pet of yours.

A. Where does he live?

B. Opposite the red Lyon.

A. I think he behaved very ill the last sessions.

B. That's true, but I cannot forbear loving his father's child: Will you take a glass of my ale?

A. No, I thank you, I took a drink of small beer at home before I came here.

B. I always brew with my own bear: You have a country-house: Are you [a] planter.

A. Yes, I have planted a great many oak trees and ash trees, and some elm trees round a lough.

B. And so a good warrant you have: It is kind father for you.

A. And what breakfast do you take in the country?

B. Sometimes stirabout, and in sumer we have the best frauhaurg in all the county.

A. What kind of man is your neighbour Squire Dolt?

B. Why, a meer Buddogh. He sometimes coshers with me; and once a month I take a pipe with him,
and we shot it about for an hour together.

A. I hear he keeps good horses.

B. None but garrauns, and I have seen him often riding on a sougawn. In short, he is no better
than a spawlpien; a perfect Marcghen. When I was there last, we had nothing but a medder to
drink out of; and the devil a nighigam but a caddao. Will you go see him when you come unto
our quarter?

A. Not without you go with me.

B. Will you lend me your snuff-box?

A. Do you make good cheese and butter?

B. Yes, when we can get milk; but our cows will never keep a drop of milk without a Puckaun.

TO THE PROVOST AND SENIOR FELLOWS OF TRINITY COLLEGE, DUBLIN.

                                              Deanery House,
                                                 July 5, 1736.

 REV. AND WORTHY SIRS,

As I had the honour of receiving some part of my education in your university, and the good
fortune to be of some service to it while I had a share of credit at court, as well as since,
when I had very little or none, I may hope to be excused for laying a case before you, and
offering my opinion upon it.

Mr. Dunkin,[198] whom you all know, sent me some time ago a memorial intended to be laid before
you, which perhaps he hath already done. His request is, that you would be pleased to enlarge
his annuity at present, and that he may have the same right, in his turn, to the first church
preferment, vacant in your gift, as if he had been made a fellow, according to the scheme of
his aunt's will; because the absurdity of the condition in it ought to be imputed to the old
woman's ignorance, although her intention be very manifest; and the intention of the testator
in all wills is chiefly regarded by the law. What I would therefore propose is this, that you
would increase his pension to one hundred pounds a-year, and make him a firm promise of the
first church living in your disposal, to the value of two hundred pounds a-year, or somewhat
more. This I take to be a reasonable medium between what he hath proposed in his memorial,
and what you allow him at present.

I am almost a perfect stranger to Mr. Dunkin, having never seen him above twice, and then in
mixed company, nor should I know his person if I met him in the streets.

But I know he is a man of wit and parts; which if applied properly to the business of his function,
instead of poetry, (wherein it must be owned he sometimes excels,) might be of great use and
service to him.

I hope you will please to remember, that, since your body hath received no inconsiderable benefaction
from the aunt, it will much increase your reputation, rather to err on the generous side toward
the nephew.

These are my thoughts, after frequently reflecting on the case under all its circumstances;
and so I leave it to your wiser judgments.

I am, with true respect and esteem, reverend and worthy Sirs,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

                                                JON. SWIFT.

                                 Deanery House, Dublin,
                                         August 15, 1737.

 GENTLEMEN,

I received from you, some weeks ago, the honour of my freedom, in a silver box, by the hands
of Mr. Stannard; but it was not delivered to me in as many weeks more; because, I suppose,
he was too full of more important business. Since that time, I have been wholly confined by
sickness, so that I was not able to return you my acknowledgment; and it is with much difficulty
I do it now, my head continuing in great disorder. Mr. Faulkner will be the bearer of my letter,
who sets out this morning for Cork.

I could have wished, as I am a private man, that, in the instrument of my freedom, you had
pleased to assign your reasons for making choice of me. I know it is a usual compliment to
bestow the freedom of the city on an archbishop, or lord-chancellor, and other persons of great
titles, merely on account of their stations or power: but a private man, and a perfect stranger,
without power or grandeur, may justly expect to find the motives assigned in the instrument
of his freedom, on what account he is thus distinguished. And yet I cannot discover, in the
whole parchment scrip, any one reason offered. Next, as to the silver box, there is not so
much as my name upon it, nor any one syllable to show it was a present from your city. Therefore
I have, by the advice of friends, agreeable with my opinion, sent back the box and instrument
of freedom by Mr. Faulkner, to be returned to you; leaving to your choice whether to insert
the reasons for which you were pleased to give me my freedom, or bestow the box upon some more
worthy person whom you may have an intention to honour, because it will equally fit everybody.

     I am, with true esteem and gratitude,
                  Gentlemen,
       Your most obedient and obliged servant,
                                          JON. SWIFT.

                                                    April 19, 1739.
 WORTHY GENTLEMEN,

I heartily recommend to your very Worshipful Society, the Reverend Mr. William Dunkin,[199]
for the living of Colrane, vacant by the death of Dr. Squire. Mr. Dunkin is a gentleman of
great learning and wit, true religion, and excellent morals. It is only for these qualifications
that I recommend him to your patronage; and I am confident that you will never repent the choice
of such a man, who will be ready at any time to obey your commands. You have my best wishes,
and all my endeavours for your prosperity: and I shall, during my life, continue to be, with
the truest respect and highest esteem,

                 Worthy Sirs,
         Your most obedient, and most humble servant,
                                                JON. SWIFT.

CERTIFICATE TO A DISCARDED SERVANT.

                                             Deanery-house,
                                                 Jan. 9, 1739-40

Whereas the bearer served me the space of one year, during which time he was an idler and a
drunkard, I then discharged him as such; but how far his having been five years at sea may
have mended his manners, I leave to the penetration of those who may hereafter choose to employ
him.

                                                   JON. SWIFT.

                                                January 28, 1741.

Whereas my infirmities of age and ill-health have prevented me to preside in the chapters held
for the good order and government of my cathedral church of St. Patrick, Dublin, in person:
I have, by a legal commission, made and appointed the very reverend Doctor John Wynne, præcentor
of the said cathedral, to be sub-dean in my stead and absence. I do hereby ratify and confirm
all the powers delegated to the said Dr. Wynne in the said Commission.

And I do hereby require and request the very reverend sub-dean not to permit any of the vicars-choral,
choristers, or organists, to attend or assist at any public musical performances, without my
consent, or his consent, with the consent of the chapter first obtained.

And whereas it hath been reported, that I gave a licence to certain vicars to assist at a club
of fiddlers in Fishamble Street, I do hereby declare that I remember no such licence to have
been ever signed or sealed by me; and that if ever such pretended licence should be produced,
I do hereby annul and vacate the said licence. Intreating my said sub-dean and chapter to punish
such vicars as shall ever appear there, as songsters, fiddlers, pipers, trumpeters, drummers,
drum-majors, or in any sonal quality, according to the flagitious aggravations of their respective
disobedience, rebellion, perfidy, and ingratitude.

I require my said sub-dean to proceed to the extremity of expulsion, if the said vicars should
be found ungovernable, impenitent, or self-sufficient, especially Taberner, Phipps, and Church,
who, as I am informed, have, in violation of my sub-dean's and chapter's order in December
last, at the instance of some obscure persons unknown, presumed to sing and fiddle at the club
above mentioned.

My resolution is to preserve the dignity of my station, and the honour of my chapter; and,
gentlemen, it is incumbent upon you to aid me, and to show who and what the Dean and Chapter
of Saint Patrick's are.

                           Signed by me,
                             JONATHAN SWIFT
                                 Dean of St. Patrick's.

  Witnesses present,
    JAMES KING,
    FRANCIS WILSON.

To the very Reverend Doctor John Wynne, sub-dean of the Cathedral church of Saint Patrick,
Dublin, and to the reverend dignitaries and prebendaries of the same.

APPENDIX.

A LETTER TO THE WRITER OF THE OCCASIONAL PAPER.

     NOTE.

     In April, 1727, Swift paid his last visit to England. The visit
     paid by him to Walpole, already referred to, resulted in nothing,
     though it cannot, on that account, be argued that Swift's open
     friendship for, and even support of, Pulteney and Bolingbroke was
     owing to his failure with Walpole. Swift pleaded with Walpole for
     Ireland and Ireland only, as his letter to Peterborough amply
     testifies. It had nothing to do with the political situation in
     England. The explanation for this sympathy is most likely found in
     Sir Henry Craik's suggestion that Swift humoured the pretences of
     his friends that they were of the party that maintained the
     national virtues, resisted corruption, and defended liberty against
     arbitrary power. To Pulteney Swift always wrote reminding him that
     the country looked to him as its saviour, and he wrote in a similar
     vein to Bolingbroke and Pope. The "Craftsman" had been founded by
     Pulteney and Bolingbroke (a curious companionship when one
     remembers the past lives of these two men) for the express purpose
     of bringing low Walpole's political power. It began by exposing the
     tricks of "Robin" and continued to lay bare the cunning and wiles
     of the "Craftsman" at the head of the government of the country.
     Both Pulteney and Bolingbroke wrote regularly, and the former
     displayed a journalistic power quite extraordinary.

     The letter which follows was written by Swift when in London on the
     occasion of his last visit; but a note in Craik's "Life of Swift"
     (vol. ii., pp. 166-167) is very interesting as showing that Swift
     did certainly give hints for some of the subjects for discussion. I
     take the liberty to transcribe this note in full. Sir Henry Craik
     thinks it more than likely that Swift may have suggested, during
     his last visit to London, some of the lines on which Bolingbroke
     and Pulteney worked. In the note he adds:

     "This finds some confirmation, from the following heads of a Tract,
     which I have found in a memorandum in Swift's handwriting. The
     memorandum belongs to Mr. Frederick Locker [now dead], who kindly
     permitted me to use his papers, the same which came from Theophilus
     Swift into Scott's possession. But the interest of this memorandum
     escaped Scott's notice."

     "PROPOSAL FOR VIRTUE."

     "Every little fellow who has a vote now corrupted.

     "An arithmetical computation, how much spent in election of
     Commons, and pensions and foreign courts: how then can our debts be
     paid?

     "No fear that gentlemen will not stand and serve without Pensions,
     and that they will let the Kingdom be invaded for want of fleets
     and armies, or bring in Pretender, etc.

     "How K(ing) will ensure his own interest as well as the Publick: he
     is now forced to keep himself bare, etc., at least, late King was.

     "Perpetual expedients, stop-gaps, etc., at long run must terminate
     in something fatal, as it does in private estates.

     "There may be probably 10,000 landed men in England fit for
     Parliament. This would reduce Parliament to consist of real landed
     men, which is full as necessary for Senates as for Juries. What do
     the other 9,000 do for want of pensions?

     " ... In private life, virtue may be difficult, by passions,
     infirmities, temptations, want of pence, strong opposition, etc.
     But not in public administration: there it makes all things easy.

     "Form the Scheme. Suppose a King of England would resolve to give
     no pension for party, etc., and call a Parliament, perfectly free,
     as he could.

     "What can a K. reasonably ask that a Parliament will refuse? When
     they are resty, it is by corrupt ministers, who have designs
     dangerous to the State, and must therefore support themselves by
     bribing, etc.

     "Open, fair dealing the best.

     "A contemptuous character of Court art. How different from true
     politics. For, comparing the talents of two professions that are
     very different, I cannot but think, that in the present sense of
     the word Politician, a common sharper or pickpocket, has every
     quality that can be required in the other, and accordingly I have
     personally known more than half a dozen in their hour esteemed
     equally to excell in both."

       *       *       *       *       *

     The present text is based on that given in the eighth volume of the
     quarto issue of Swift's Works published in 1765.

     [T. S.]

  A LETTER TO THE WRITER OF
  THE OCCASIONAL PAPER.[200]

  [VIDE THE CRAFTSMAN, 1727.]

 SIR,

Although, in one of your papers, you declare an intention of turning them, during the dead
season of the year, into accounts of domestic and foreign intelligence; yet I think we, your
correspondents, should not understand your meaning so literally, as if you intended to reject
inserting any other paper, which might probably be useful for the public. Neither, indeed,
am I fully convinced that this new course you resolve to take will render you more secure than
your former laudable practice, of inserting such speculations as were sent you by several well-wishers
to the good of the kingdom; however grating such notices might be to some, who wanted neither
power nor inclination to resent them at your cost. For, since there is a direct law against
spreading false news, if you should venture to tell us in one of the Craftsmen that the Dey
of Algiers had got the toothache, or the King of Bantam had taken a purge, and the facts should
be contradicted in succeeding packets; I do not see what plea you could offer to avoid the
utmost penalty of the law, because you are not supposed to be very gracious among those who
are most able to hurt you.

Besides, as I take your intentions to be sincerely meant for the public service, so your original
method of entertaining and instructing us will be more general and more useful in this season
of the year, when people are retired to amusements more cool, more innocent, and much more
reasonable than those they have left; when their passions are subsided or suspended; when they
have no occasions of inflaming themselves, or each other; where they will have opportunities
of hearing common sense, every day in the week, from their tenants or neighbouring farmers,
and thereby be qualified, in hours of rain or leisure, to read and consider the advice or information
you shall send them.

Another weighty reason why you should not alter your manner of writing, by dwindling to a newsmonger,
is because there is no suspension of arms agreed on between you and your adversaries, who fight
with a sort of weapons which have two wonderful qualities, that they are never to be worn out,
and are best wielded by the weakest hands, and which the poverty of our language forceth me
to call by the trite appellations of scurrility, slander, and Billingsgate. I am far from thinking
that these gentlemen, or rather their employers, (for the operators themselves are too obscure
to be guessed at) should be answered after their own way, although it were possible to drag
them out of their obscurity; but I wish you would enquire what real use such a conduct is to
the cause they have been so largely paid to defend. The author of the three first Occasional
Letters, a person altogether unknown, hath been thought to glance (for what reasons he best
knows) at some public proceedings, as if they were not agreeable to his private opinions. In
answer to this, the pamphleteers retained on the other side are instructed by their superiors,
to single out an adversary whose abilities they have most reason to apprehend, and to load
himself, his family, and friends, with all the infamy that a perpetual conversation in Bridewell,
Newgate, and the stews could furnish them; but, at the same time, so very unluckily, that the
most distinguishing parts of their characters strike directly in the face of their benefactor,
whose idea presenting itself along with his guineas perpetually to their imagination, occasioned
this desperate blunder.

But, allowing this heap of slander to be truth, and applied to the proper person; what is to
be the consequence? Are our public debts to be the sooner paid; the corruptions that author
complains of to be the sooner cured; an honourable peace, or a glorious war the more likely
to ensue; trade to flourish; the Ostend Company to be demolished; Gibraltar and Port Mahon
left entire in our possession; the balance of Europe to be preserved; the malignity of parties
to be for ever at an end; none but persons of merit, virtue, genius, and learning to be encouraged?
I ask whether any of these effects will follow upon the publication of this author's libel,
even supposing he could prove every syllable of it to be true?

At the same time, I am well assured, that the only reason of ascribing those papers to a particular
person, is built upon the information of a certain pragmatical spy of quality, well known to
act in that capacity by those into whose company he insinuates himself; a sort of persons who,
although without much love, esteem, or dread of people in present power, yet have too much
common prudence to speak their thoughts with freedom before such an intruder; who, therefore,
imposes grossly upon his masters, if he makes them pay for anything but his own conjectures.

It is a grievous mistake in a great minister to neglect or despise, much more to irritate men
of genius and learning. I have heard one of the wisest persons in my time observe, that an
administration was to be known and judged by the talents of those who appeared their advocates
in print. This I must never allow to be a general rule; yet I cannot but think it prodigiously
unfortunate, that, among the answerers, defenders, repliers, and panegyrists, started up in
defence of present persons and proceedings, there hath not yet arisen one whose labours we
can read with patience, however we may applaud their loyalty and good will. And all this with
the advantages of constant ready pay, of natural and acquired venom, and a grant of the whole
fund of slander, to range over and riot in as they please.[201]

On the other side, a turbulent writer of Occasional Letters, and other vexatious papers, in
conjunction perhaps with one or two friends as bad as himself, is able to disconcert, tease,
and sour us whenever he thinks fit, merely by the strength of genius and truth; and after so
dexterous a manner, that, when we are vexed to the soul, and well know the reasons why we are
so, we are ashamed to own the first, and cannot tell how to express the other. In a word, it
seems to me that all the writers are on one side, and all the railers on the other.

However, I do not pretend to assert, that it is impossible for an ill minister to find men
of wit who may be drawn, by a very valuable consideration, to undertake his defence; but the
misfortune is, that the heads of such writers rebel against their hearts; their genius forsakes
them, when they would offer to prostitute it to the service of injustice, corruption, party
rage, and false representations of things and persons.

And this is the best argument I can offer in defence of great men, who have been of late so
very unhappy in the choice of their paper-champions; although I cannot much commend their good
husbandry, in those exorbitant payments of twenty and sixty guineas at a time for a scurvy
pamphlet; since the sort of work they require is what will all come within the talents of any
one who hath enjoyed the happiness of a very bad education, hath kept the vilest company, is
endowed with a servile spirit, is master of an empty purse, and a heart full of malice.

But, to speak the truth in soberness; it should seem a little hard, since the old Whiggish
principle hath been recalled of standing up for the liberty of the press, to a degree that
no man, for several years past, durst venture out a thought which did not square to a point
with the maxims and practices that then prevailed: I say, it is a little hard that the vilest
mercenaries should be countenanced, preferred, rewarded, for discharging their brutalities
against men of honour, only upon a bare conjecture.

If it should happen that these profligates have attacked an innocent person, I ask what satisfaction
can their hirers give in return? Not all the wealth raked together by the most corrupt rapacious
ministers, in the longest course of unlimited power, would be sufficient to atone for the hundredth
part of such an injury.

In the common way of thinking, it is a situation sufficient in all conscience to satisfy a
reasonable ambition, for a private person to command the forces, the laws, the revenues of
a great kingdom, to reward and advance his followers and flatterers as he pleases, and to keep
his enemies (real or imaginary) in the dust. In such an exaltation, why should he be at the
trouble to make use of fools to sound his praises, (because I always thought the lion was hard
set, when he chose the ass for his trumpeter) or knaves to revenge his quarrels, at the expense
of innocent men's reputations?

With all those advantages, I cannot see why persons, in the height of power, should be under
the least concern on account of their reputation, for which they have no manner of use; or
to ruin that of others, which may perhaps be the only possession their enemies have left them.
Supposing times of corruption, which I am very far from doing, if a writer displays them in
their proper colours, does he do anything worse than sending customers to the shop? "Here only,
at the sign of the Brazen Head, are to be sold places and pensions: beware of counterfeits,
and take care of mistaking the door."

For my own part, I think it very unnecessary to give the character of a great minister in the
fulness of his power, because it is a thing that naturally does itself, and is obvious to the
eyes of all mankind; for his personal qualities are all derived into the most minute parts
of his administration. If this be just, prudent, regular, impartial, intent upon the public
good, prepared for present exigencies, and provident of the future; such is the director himself
in his private capacity: If it be rapacious, insolent, partial, palliating long and deep diseases
of the public with empirical remedies, false, disguised, impudent, malicious, revengeful; you
shall infallibly find the private life of the conductor to answer in every point; nay, what
is more, every twinge of the gout or gravel will be felt in their consequences by the community.
As the thief-catcher, upon viewing a house broke open, could immediately distinguish, from
the manner of the workmanship, by what hand it was done.

It is hard to form a maxim against which an exception is not ready to start up: So, in the
present case, where the minister grows enormously rich, the public is proportionably poor;
as, in a private family, the steward always thrives the fastest when his lord is running out.

       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

AN ACCOUNT OF THE COURT AND EMPIRE OF JAPAN.[202]

Regoge[203] was the thirty-fourth emperor of Japan, and began his reign in the year 341 of
the Christian era, succeeding to Nena,[204] a princess who governed with great felicity.

There had been a revolution in that empire about twenty-six years before, which made some breaches
in the hereditary line; and Regoge, successor to Nena, although of the royal family, was a
distant relation. There were two violent parties in the empire, which began in the time of
the revolution above mentioned; and, at the death of the Empress Nena, were in the highest
degree of animosity, each charging the other with a design of introducing new gods, and changing
the civil constitution. The names of these two parties were Husiges and Yortes.[205] The latter
were those whom Nena, the late empress, most favoured towards the end of her reign, and by
whose advice she governed.

The Husige faction, enraged at their loss of power, made private applications to Regoge during
the life of the empress; which prevailed so far, that, upon her death, the new emperor wholly
disgraced the Yortes, and employed only the Husiges in all his affairs. The Japanese author
highly blames his Imperial Majesty's proceeding in this affair; because, it was allowed on
all hands, that he had then a happy opportunity of reconciling parties for ever by a moderating
scheme. But he, on the contrary, began his reign by openly disgracing the principal and most
popular Yortes, some of which had been chiefly instrumental in raising him to the throne. By
this mistaken step he occasioned a rebellion; which, although it were soon quelled by some
very surprising turns of fortune, yet the fear, whether real or pretended, of new attempts,
engaged him in such immense charges, that, instead of clearing any part of that prodigious
debt left on his kingdom by the former war, which might have been done by any tolerable management,
in twelve years of the most profound peace; he left his empire loaden with a vast addition
to the old encumbrance.

This prince, before he succeeded to the empire of Japan, was king of Tedsu,[206] a dominion
seated on the continent, to the west side of Japan. Tedsu was the place of his birth, and more
beloved by him than his new empire; for there he spent some months almost every year, and thither
was supposed to have conveyed great sums of money, saved out of his Imperial revenues.

There were two maritime towns of great importance bordering upon Tedsu:[207] Of these he purchased
a litigated title; and, to support it, was forced not only to entrench deeply on his Japanese
revenues, but to engage in alliances very dangerous to the Japanese empire.[208]

Japan was at that time a limited monarchy, which some authors are of opinion was introduced
there by a detachment from the numerous army of Brennus, who ravaged a great part of Asia;
and, those of them who fixed in Japan, left behind them that kind of military institution,
which the northern people, in ensuing ages, carried through most parts of Europe; the generals
becoming kings, the great officers a senate of nobles, with a representative from every centenary
of private soldiers; and, in the assent of the majority in these two bodies, confirmed by the
general, the legislature consisted.

I need not farther explain a matter so universally known; but return to my subject.

The Husige faction, by a gross piece of negligence in the Yortes, had so far insinuated themselves
and their opinions into the favour of Regoge before he came to the empire, that this prince
firmly believed them to be his only true friends, and the others his mortal enemies.[209] By
this opinion he governed all the actions of his reign.

The emperor died suddenly, in his journey to Tedsu; where, according to his usual custom, he
was going to pass the summer.

This prince, during his whole reign, continued an absolute stranger to the language, the manners,
the laws, and the religion of Japan; and passing his whole time among old mistresses, or a
few privadoes, left the whole management of the empire in the hands of a minister, upon the
condition of being made easy in his personal revenues, and the management of parties in the
senate. His last minister,[210] who governed in the most arbitrary manner for several years,
he was thought to hate more than he did any other person in Japan, except his only son, the
heir to the empire. The dislike he bore to the former was, because the minister, under pretence
that he could not govern the senate without disposing of employments among them, would not
suffer his master to oblige one single person, but disposed of all to his own relations and
dependants. But, as to that continued and virulent hatred he bore to the prince his son, from
the beginning of his reign to his death, the historian hath not accounted for it, further than
by various conjectures, which do not deserve to be related.

The minister above mentioned was of a family not contemptible, had been early a senator, and
from his youth a mortal enemy to the Yortes. He had been formerly disgraced in the senate,
for some frauds in the management of a public trust.[211] He was perfectly skilled, by long
practice, in the senatorial forms; and dexterous in the purchasing of votes, from those who
could find their accounts better in complying with his measures, than they could probably lose
by any tax that might be charged on the kingdom. He seemed to fail, in point of policy, by
not concealing his gettings, never scrupling openly to lay out vast sums of money in paintings,
buildings, and purchasing estates; when it was known, that, upon his first coming into business,
upon the death of the Empress Nena, his fortune was but inconsiderable. He had the most boldness,
and the least magnanimity that ever any mortal was endowed with. By enriching his relations,
friends, and dependants, in a most exorbitant manner, he was weak enough to imagine that he
had provided a support against an evil day. He had the best among all false appearances of
courage, which was a most unlimited assurance, whereby he would swagger the boldest men into
a dread of his power, but had not the smallest portion of magnanimity, growing jealous, and
disgracing every man, who was known to bear the least civility to those he disliked. He had
some small smattering in books, but no manner of politeness; nor, in his whole life, was ever
known to advance any one person, upon the score of wit, learning, or abilities for business.
The whole system of his ministry was corruption; and he never gave bribe or pension, without
frankly telling the receivers what he expected from them, and threatening them to put an end
to his bounty, if they failed to comply in every circumstance.

A few months before the emperor's death, there was a design concerted between some eminent
persons of both parties, whom the desperate state of the empire had united, to accuse the minister
at the first meeting of a new chosen senate, which was then to assemble according to the laws
of that empire. And it was believed, that the vast expense he must be at in choosing an assembly
proper for his purpose, added to the low state of the treasury, the increasing number of pensioners,
the great discontent of the people, and the personal hatred of the emperor; would, if well
laid open in the senate, be of weight enough to sink the minister, when it should appear to
his very pensioners and creatures that he could not supply them much longer.

While this scheme was in agitation, an account came of the emperor's death, and the prince
his son,[212] with universal joy, mounted the throne of Japan.

The new emperor had always lived a private life, during the reign of his father; who, in his
annual absence, never trusted him more than once with the reins of government, which he held
so evenly that he became too popular to be confided in any more. He was thought not unfavourable
to the Yortes, at least not altogether to approve the virulence wherewith his father proceeded
against them; and therefore, immediately upon his succession, the principal persons of that
denomination came, in several bodies, to kiss the hem of his garment, whom he received with
great courtesy, and some of them with particular marks of distinction.

The prince, during the reign of his father, having not been trusted with any public charge,
employed his leisure in learning the language, the religion, the customs, and disposition of
the Japanese; wherein he received great information, among others, from Nomptoc[213], master
of his finances, and president of the senate, who secretly hated Lelop-Aw, the minister; and
likewise from Ramneh[214], a most eminent senator; who, despairing to do any good with the
father, had, with great industry, skill, and decency, used his endeavour to instil good principles
into the young prince.

Upon the news of the former emperor's death, a grand council was summoned of course, where
little passed besides directing the ceremony of proclaiming the successor. But, in some days
after, the new emperor having consulted with those persons in whom he could chiefly confide,
and maturely considered in his own mind the present state of his affairs, as well as the disposition
of his people, convoked another assembly of his council; wherein, after some time spent in
general business, suitable to the present emergency, he directed Lelop-Aw to give him, in as
short terms as he conveniently could, an account of the nation's debts, of his management in
the senate, and his negotiations with foreign courts: Which that minister having delivered,
according to his usual manner, with much assurance and little satisfaction, the emperor desired
to be fully satisfied in the following particulars.

Whether the vast expense of choosing such members into the senate, as would be content to do
the public business, were absolutely necessary?

Whether those members, thus chosen in, would cross and impede the necessary course of affairs,
unless they were supplied with great sums of money, and continued pensions?

Whether the same corruption and perverseness were to be expected from the nobles?

Whether the empire of Japan were in so low a condition, that the imperial envoys, at foreign
courts, must be forced to purchase alliances, or prevent a war, by immense bribes, given to
the ministers of all the neighbouring princes?

Why the debts of the empire were so prodigiously advanced, in a peace of twelve years at home
and abroad?

Whether the Yortes were universally enemies to the religion and laws of the empire, and to
the imperial family now reigning?

Whether those persons, whose revenues consist in lands, do not give surer pledges of fidelity
to the public, and are more interested in the welfare of the empire, than others whose fortunes
consist only in money?

And because Lelop-Aw, for several years past, had engrossed the whole administration, the emperor
signified, that from him alone he expected an answer.

This minister, who had sagacity enough to cultivate an interest in the young prince's family,
during the late emperor's life, received early intelligence from one of his emissaries of what
was intended at the council, and had sufficient time to frame as plausible an answer as his
cause and conduct would allow. However, having desired a few minutes to put his thoughts in
order, he delivered them in the following manner.

       *       *       *       *       *

 "SIR,

"Upon this short unexpected warning, to answer your Imperial Majesty's queries I should be
wholly at a loss, in your Majesty's august presence, and that of this most noble assembly,
if I were armed with a weaker defence than my own loyalty and integrity, and the prosperous
success of my endeavours.

"It is well known that the death of the Empress Nena happened in a most miraculous juncture;
and that, if she had lived two months longer, your illustrious family would have been deprived
of your right, and we should have seen an usurper upon your throne, who would have wholly changed
the constitution of this empire, both civil and sacred; and although that empress died in a
most opportune season, yet the peaceable entrance of your Majesty's father was effected by
a continual series of miracles. The truth of this appears by that unnatural rebellion which
the Yortes raised, without the least provocation, in the first year of the late emperor's reign,
which may be sufficient to convince your Majesty, that every soul of that denomination was,
is, and will be for ever, a favourer of the Pretender, a mortal enemy to your illustrious family,
and an introducer of new gods into the empire. Upon this foundation was built the whole conduct
of our affairs; and, since a great majority of the kingdom was at that time reckoned to favour
the Yortes faction, who, in the regular course of elections, must certainly be chosen members
of the senate then to be convoked; it was necessary, by the force of money, to influence elections
in such a manner, that your Majesty's father might have a sufficient number to weigh down the
scale on his side, and thereby carry on those measures which could only secure him and his
family in the possession of the empire. To support this original plan I came into the service:
But the members of the senate, knowing themselves every day more necessary, upon the choosing
of a new senate, I found the charges to increase; and that, after they were chosen, they insisted
upon an increase of their pensions; because they well knew that the work could not be carried
on without them: And I was more general in my donatives, because I thought it was more for
the honour of the crown, that every vote should pass without a division; and that, when a debate
was proposed, it should immediately be quashed, by putting the question.

"Sir, The date of the present senate is expired, and your Imperial Majesty is now to convoke
a new one; which, I confess, will be somewhat more expensive than the last, because the Yortes,
from your favourable reception, have begun to reassume a spirit whereof the country had some
intelligence; and we know the majority of the people, without proper management, would be still
in that fatal interest. However, I dare undertake, with the charge only of four hundred thousand
sprangs,[215] to return as great a majority of senators of the true stamp, as your Majesty
can desire. As to the sums of money paid in foreign courts, I hope, in some years, to ease
the nation of them, when we and our neighbours come to a good understanding. However, I will
be bold to say, they are cheaper than a war, where your Majesty is to be a principal.

"The pensions, indeed, to senators and other persons, must needs increase, from the restiveness
of some, and scrupulous nature of others; and the new members, who are unpractised, must have
better encouragement. However, I dare undertake to bring the eventual charge within eight hundred
thousand sprangs. But, to make this easy, there shall be new funds raised, of which I have
several schemes ready, without taxing bread or flesh, which shall be referred to more pressing
occasions.

"Your Majesty knows it is the laudable custom of all Eastern princes, to leave the whole management
of affairs, both civil and military, to their viziers. The appointments for your family, and
private purse, shall exceed those of your predecessors: You shall be at no trouble, further
than to appear sometimes in council, and leave the rest to me: You shall hear no clamour or
complaints: Your senate shall, upon occasions, declare you the best of princes, the father
of your country, the arbiter of Asia, the defender of the oppressed, and the delight of mankind.

"Sir, Hear not those who would most falsely, impiously, and maliciously insinuate, that your
government can be carried on without that wholesome, necessary expedient, of sharing the public
revenue with your faithful deserving senators. This, I know, my enemies are pleased to call
bribery and corruption. Be it so: But I insist, that without this bribery and corruption, the
wheels of government will not turn, or at least will be apt to take fire, like other wheels,
unless they be greased at proper times. If an angel from heaven should descend, to govern this
empire upon any other scheme than what our enemies call corruption, he must return from whence
he came, and leave the work undone.

"Sir, It is well known we are a trading nation, and consequently cannot thrive in a bargain
where nothing is to be gained. The poor electors, who run from their shops, or the plough,
for the service of their country, are they not to be considered for their labour and their
loyalty? The candidates, who, with the hazard of their persons, the loss of their characters,
and the ruin of their fortunes, are preferred to the senate, in a country where they are strangers,
before the very lords of the soil; are they not to be rewarded for their zeal to your Majesty's
service, and qualified to live in your metropolis as becomes the lustre of their stations?

"Sir, If I have given great numbers of the most profitable employments among my own relations
and nearest allies, it was not out of any partiality, but because I know them best, and can
best depend upon them. I have been at the pains to mould and cultivate their opinions. Abler
heads might probably have been found, but they would not be equally under my direction. A huntsman,
who hath the absolute command of his dogs, will hunt more effectually than with a better pack,
to whose manner and cry he is a stranger.

"Sir, Upon the whole, I will appeal to all those who best knew your royal father, whether that
blessed monarch had ever one anxious thought for the public, or disappointment, or uneasiness,
or want of money for all his occasions, during the time of my administration? And, how happy
the people confessed themselves to be under such a king, I leave to their own numerous addresses;
which all politicians will allow to be the most infallible proof how any nation stands affected
to their sovereign."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lelop-Aw, having ended his speech and struck his forehead thrice against
the table, as the custom is in Japan, sat down with great complacency of
mind, and much applause of his adherents, as might be observed by their
countenances and their whispers. But the Emperor's behaviour was
remarkable; for, during the whole harangue, he appeared equally
attentive and uneasy. After a short pause, His Majesty commanded that
some other counsellor should deliver his thoughts, either to confirm or
object against what had been spoken by Lelop-Aw.
 SIR,

A pamphlet was lately sent me, entitled, "A Letter from the Right Honourable Sir R. W. to the
Right Honourable W. P. Esq; occasioned by the late Invectives on the King, her Majesty, and
all the Royal Family." By these initial letters of our names, the world is to understand that
you and I must be meant. Although the letter seems to require an answer, yet because it appears
to be written rather in the style and manner used by some of your pensioners, than your own,
I shall allow you the liberty to think the same of this answer, and leave the public to determine
which of the two actors can better personate their principals. That frigid and fustian way
of haranguing wherewith your representer begins, continues, and ends his declamation, I shall
leave to the critics in eloquence and propriety to descant on; because it adds nothing to the
weight of your accusations, nor will my defence be one grain the better by exposing its puerilities.

I shall therefore only remark upon this particular, that the frauds and corruptions in most
other arts and sciences, as law, physic (I shall proceed no further) are usually much more
plausibly defended than in that of politics; whether it be, that by a kind of fatality the
vindication of a corrupt minister is always left to the management of the meanest and most
prostitute writers; or whether it be, that the effects of a wicked or unskilful administration,
are more public, visible, pernicious and universal. Whereas the mistakes in other sciences
are often matters that affect only speculation; or at worst, the bad consequences fall upon
few and private persons. A nation is quickly sensible of the miseries it feels, and little
comforted by knowing what account it turns to by the wealth, the power, the honours conferred
on those who sit at the helm, or the salaries paid to their penmen; while the body of the people
is sunk into poverty and despair. A Frenchman in his wooden shoes may, from the vanity of his
nation, and the constitution of that government, conceive some imaginary pleasure in boasting
the grandeur of his monarch, in the midst of his own slavery; but a free-born Englishman, with
all his loyalty, can find little satisfaction at a minister overgrown in wealth and power from
the lowest degree of want and contempt; when that power or wealth are drawn from the bowels
and blood of the nation, for which every fellow-subject is a sufferer, except the great man
himself, his family, and his pensioners. I mean such a minister (if there hath ever been such
a one) whose whole management hath been a continued link of ignorance, blunders, and mistakes
in every article besides that of enriching and aggrandizing himself.

For these reasons the faults of men, who are most trusted in public business, are, of all others,
the most difficult to be defended. A man may be persuaded into a wrong opinion, wherein he
hath small concern: but no oratory can have the power over a sober man against the conviction
of his own senses: and therefore, as I take it, the money thrown away on such advocates might
be more prudently spared, and kept in such a minister's own pocket, than lavished in hiring
a corporation of pamphleteers to defend his conduct, and prove a kingdom to be flourishing
in trade and wealth, which every particular subject (except those few already excepted) can
lawfully swear, and, by dear experience knows, to be a falsehood.

Give me leave, noble sir, in the way of argument, to suppose this to be your case; could you
in good conscience, or moral justice, chide your paper-advocates for their ill success in persuading
the world against manifest demonstration? Their miscarriage is owing, alas! to want of matter.
Should we allow them to be masters of wit, raillery, or learning, yet the subject would not
admit them to exercise their talents; and, consequently, they can have no recourse but to impudence,
lying, and scurrility.

I must confess, that the author of your letter to me hath carried this last qualification to
a greater height than any of his fellows: but he hath, in my opinion, failed a little in point
of politeness from the original which he affects to imitate. If I should say to a prime minister,
"Sir, you have sufficiently provided that Dunkirk should be absolutely demolished and never
repaired; you took the best advantages of a long and general peace to discharge the immense
debts of the nation; you did wonders with the fleet; you made the Spaniards submit to our quiet
possession of Gibraltar and Portmahon; you never enriched yourself and family at the expense
of the public."--Such is the style of your supposed letter, which however, if I am well informed,
by no means comes up to the refinements of a fishwife in Billingsgate. "You never had a bastard
by Tom the waterman; you never stole a silver tankard; you were never whipped at the cart's tail."

In the title of your letter, it is said to be "occasioned by the late invectives on the King,
her Majesty, and all the Royal Family:" and the whole contents of the paper (stripped from
your eloquence) goes on upon a supposition affectedly serious, that their Majesties, and the
whole Royal Family, have been lately bitterly and publicly inveighed against in the most enormous
and treasonable manner. Now, being a man, as you well know, altogether out of business, I do
sometimes lose an hour in reading a few of those controversial papers upon politics, which
have succeeded for some years past to the polemical tracts between Whig and Tory: and in this
kind of reading (if it may deserve to be so called) although I have been often but little edified,
or entertained, yet hath it given me occasion to make some observations. First, I have observed,
that however men may sincerely agree in all the branches of the Low Church principle, in a
tenderness for dissenters of every kind, in a perfect abhorrence of Popery and the Pretender,
and in the most firm adherence to the Protestant succession in the royal house of Hanover;
yet plenty of matter may arise to kindle their animosities against each other from the various
infirmities, follies, and vices inherent in mankind.

Secondly, I observed, that although the vulgar reproach which charges the quarrels between
ministers, and their opposers, to be only a contention for power between those who are in,
and those who would be in if they could; yet as long as this proceeds no further than a scuffle
of ambition among a few persons, it is only a matter of course, whereby the public is little
affected. But when corruptions are plain, open, and undisguised, both in their causes and effects,
to the hazard of a nation's ruin, and so declared by all the principal persons and the bulk
of the people, those only excepted who are gainers by those corruptions: and when such ministers
are forced to fly for shelter to the throne, with a complaint of disaffection to majesty against
all who durst dislike their administration: such a general disposition in the minds of men,
cannot, I think, by any rules of reason, be called the "clamour of a few disaffected incendiaries,"
gasping[217] after power. It is the true voice of the people; which must and will at last be
heard, or produce consequences that I dare not mention.

I have observed thirdly, that among all the offensive printed papers which have come to my
hand, whether good or bad, the writers have taken particular pains to celebrate the virtues
of our excellent King and Queen, even where these were, strictly speaking, no part of the subject:
nor can it be properly objected that such a proceeding was only a blind to cover their malice
towards you and your assistants; because to affront the King, Queen, or the Royal Family, as
it would be directly opposite to the principles that those kind of writers have always professed,
so it would destroy the very end they have in pursuit. And it is somewhat remarkable, that
those very writers against you, and the regiment you command, are such as most distinguish
themselves upon all, or upon no occasions, by their panegyrics on their prince; and, as all
of them do this without favour or hire, so some of them continue the same practice under the
severest prosecution by you and your janizaries.

You seem to know, or at least very strongly to conjecture, who those persons are that give
you so much weekly disquiet. Will you dare to assert that any of these are Jacobites, endeavour
to alienate the hearts of the people, to defame the prince, and then dethrone him (for these
are your expressions) and that I am their patron, their bulwark, their hope, and their refuge?
Can you think I will descend to vindicate myself against an aspersion so absurd? God be thanked,
we have had many a change of ministry without changing our prince: for if it had been otherwise,
perhaps revolutions might have been more frequent. Heaven forbid that the welfare of a great
kingdom, and of a brave people, should be trusted with the thread of a single subject's life;
for I suppose it is not yet in your view to entail the ministryship in your family. Thus I
hope we may live to see different ministers and different measures, without any danger to the
succession in the royal Protestant line of Hanover.

You are pleased to advance a topic, which I could never heartily approve of in any party, although
they have each in their turn advanced it while they had the superiority. You tell us, "It is
hard that while every private man shall have the liberty to choose what servants he pleaseth,
the same privilege should be refused to a king." This assertion, crudely understood, can hardly
be supported. If by servants be only meant those who are purely menial, who provide for their
master's food and clothing, or for the convenience and splendour of his family, the point is
not worth debating. But the bad or good choice of a chancellor, a secretary, an ambassador,
a treasurer, and many other officers, is of very high consequence to the whole kingdom; so
is likewise that amphibious race of courtiers between servants and ministers; such as the steward,
chamberlain, treasurer of the household and the like, being all of the privy council, and some
of the cabinet, who according to their talents, their principles, and their degree of favour,
may be great instruments of good or evil, both to the subject and the prince; so that the parallel
is by no means adequate between a prince's court and a private family. And yet if an insolent
footman be troublesome in the neighbourhood; if he breaks the people's windows, insults their
servants, breaks into other folk's houses to pilfer what he can find, although he belong to
a duke, and be a favourite in his station, yet those who are injured may, without just offence,
complain to his lord, and for want of redress get a warrant to send him to the stocks, to Bridewell,
or to Newgate, according to the nature and degree of his delinquencies. Thus the servants of
the prince, whether menial or otherwise, if they be of his council, are subject to the enquiries
and prosecutions of the great council of the nation, even as far as to capital punishment;
and so must ever be in our constitution, till a minister can procure a majority even of that
council to shelter him; which I am sure you will allow to be a desperate crisis under any party
of the most plausible denomination.

The only instance you produce, or rather insinuate, to prove the late invectives against the
King, Queen, and Royal Family, is drawn from that deduction of the English history, published
in several papers by the Craftsman; wherein are shewn the bad consequences to the public, as
well as to the prince, from the practices of evil ministers in most reigns, and at several
periods, when the throne was filled by wise monarchs as well as by weak. This deduction, therefore,
cannot reasonably give the least offence to a British king, when he shall observe that the
greatest and ablest of his predecessors, by their own candour, by a particular juncture of
affairs, or by the general infirmity of human nature, have sometimes put too much trust in
confident, insinuating, and avaricious ministers.

Wisdom, attended by virtue and a generous nature, is not unapt to be imposed on. Thus Milton
describes Uriel, "the sharpest-sighted spirit in heaven," and "regent of the sun," deceived
by the dissimulation and flattery of the devil, for which the poet gives a philosophical reason,
but needless here to quote.[218] Is anything more common, or more useful, than to caution wise
men in high stations against putting too much trust in undertaking servants, cringing flatterers,
or designing friends? Since the Asiatic custom of governing by prime ministers hath prevailed
in so many courts of Europe, how careful should every prince be in the choice of the person
on whom so great a trust is devolved, whereon depend the safety and welfare of himself and
all his subjects. Queen Elizabeth, whose administration is frequently quoted as the best pattern
for English princes to follow, could not resist the artifices of the Earl of Leicester, who,
although universally allowed to be the most ambitious, insolent, and corrupt person of his
age, was yet her greatest, and almost her only favourite: (his religion indeed being partly
puritan and partly infidel, might have better tallied with present times) yet this wise queen
would never suffer the openest enemies of that overgrown lord to be sacrificed to his vengeance;
nor durst he charge them with a design of introducing Popery or the Spanish pretender.

How many great families do we all know, whose masters have passed for persons of good abilities,
during the whole course of their lives, and yet the greatest part of whose estates have sunk
in the hands of their stewards and receivers; their revenues paid them in scanty portions,
at large discount, and treble interest, though they did not know it; while the tenants were
daily racked, and at the same time accused to their landlords of insolvency. Of this species
are such managers, who, like honest Peter Waters, pretend to clear an estate, keep the owner
penniless, and, after seven years, leave him five times more in debt, while they sink half
a plum into their own pockets.

Those who think themselves concerned, may give you thanks for that gracious liberty you are
pleased to allow them of "taking vengeance on the ministers, and there shooting their envenomed
arrows." As to myself; I neither owe you vengeance, nor make use of such weapons: but it is
your weakness, or ill fortune, or perhaps the fault of your constitution, to convert wholesome
remedies into poison; for you have received better and more frequent instructions than any
minister of your age and country, if God had given you the grace to apply them.

I dare promise you the thanks of half the kingdom, if you will please to perform the promise
you have made of suffering the Craftsman and company, or whatever other "infamous wretches
and execrable villains" you mean, to take their vengeance only on your own sacred ministerial
person, without bringing any of your brethren, much less the most remote branch of the Royal
Family, into the debate. This generous offer I suspected from the first; because there were
never heard of so many, so unnecessary, and so severe prosecutions as you have promoted during
your ministry, in a kingdom where the liberty of the press is so much pretended to be allowed.
But in reading a page or two, I found you thought it proper to explain away your grant; for
there you tell us, that "these miscreants" (meaning the writers against you) "are to remember
that the laws have ABUNDANTLY LESS generous, less mild and merciful sentiments" than yourself,
and into their secular hands the poor authors must be delivered to fines, prisons, pillories,
whippings, and the gallows. Thus your promise of impunity, which began somewhat jesuitically,
concludes with the mercy of a Spanish inquisitor.

If it should so happen that I am neither "abettor, patron, protector," nor "supporter" of these
imaginary invectives "against the King, her Majesty, or any of the Royal Family," I desire
to know what satisfaction I am to get from you, or the creature you employed in writing the
libel which I am now answering? It will be no excuse to say, that I differ from you in every
particular of your political reason and practise; because that will be to load the best, the
soundest, and most numerous part of the kingdom with the denominations you are pleased to bestow
upon me, that they are "Jacobites, wicked miscreants, infamous wretches, execrable villains,
and defamers of the King, Queen, and all the Royal Family," and "guilty of high treason." You
cannot know my style; but I can easily know your works, which are performed in the sight of
the sun. Your good inclinations are visible; but I begin to doubt the strength of your credit,
even at court, that you have not power to make his Majesty believe me the person which you
represent in your libel: as most infallibly you have often attempted, and in vain, because
I must otherwise have found it by the marks of his royal displeasure. However, to be angry
with you to whom I am indebted for the greatest obligation I could possibly receive, would
be the highest ingratitude. It is to YOU I owe that reputation I have acquired for some years
past of being a lover of my country and its constitution: to YOU I owe the libels and scurrilities
conferred upon me by the worst of men, and consequently some degree of esteem and friendship
from the best. From YOU I learned the skill of distinguishing between a patriot and a plunderer
of his country: and from YOU I hope in time to acquire the knowledge of being a loyal, faithful,
and useful servant to the best of princes, King George the Second; and therefore I can conclude,
by your example, but with greater truth, that I am not only with humble submission and respect,
but with infinite gratitude, Sir, your most obedient and most obliged servant,

                                                    W. P.

  INDEX

  Acheson, Sir Arthur, 246.

  Alberoni's expedition, 207.

  Allen, Joshua, Lord, his attack on Swift, 168, 169, 175, 176, 236, 237;
    account of, 175.

  America, emigration from Ireland to, 120.

  Arachne, fable of, 21.

  Ballaquer, Carteret's secretary, 242.

  Bank, proposal for a national, in Ireland, 27, 31, 38, 42, 43;
    subscribers to the, 49-51.

  Barbou, Dr Nicholas, 69.

  Barnstaple, the chief market for Irish wool, 18.

  Beggars in Ireland, 70;
    Proposal for giving Badges to, 323-335;
    reason for the number of, 341.

  Birch, Colonel John, 6.

  Bishops, Swift's proposal to sell the lands of the, 252 et seq.

  Bladon, Colonel, 23.

  Bolingbroke, Lord, his contributions to the "Craftsman," 219, 375, 377.

  Boulter, Archbishop, his scheme for lowering the gold coinage, 353;
    opposed by Swift, 353, 354.

  Browne, Sir John, his "Scheme of the money matters of Ireland," 66;
    Swift's answer to his "Memorial," 109-116.

  Burnet, William, 121.

  Carteret, John, Lord, 227;
    Swift's Vindication of, 229-249.

  Coinage, McCulla's proposal about, 179-190;
    Swift's counter-proposal, 183.

  Coining, forbidden in Ireland, 88, 134.

  Compton, Sir Spencer, 387.

  Corn, imported into Ireland from England, 17.

  "Cossing," explained, 271.

  Cotter, ballad upon, 23.

  "Craftsman," the, 219, 375, 397, 399.

  Davenport, Colonel, 280.

  Delany, Dr. Patrick, 244.

  Dublin, thieves and roughs in, 56;
    Examination of certain Abuses, etc, in, 263-282;
    Advice to the Freemen of, in the Choice of
    a Member of Parliament, 311-316;
    Considerations in the Choice of a Recorder of, 319, 320.

  Dunkin, Rev. William, Swift's efforts in behalf of, 364, 368.

  Dutton-Colt, Sir Harry, 280.

  Elliston, Ebenezer, Last Speech of, 56 et seq.

  Esquire, the title of, 49.

  Footmen, Petition of the, 307.

  French, Humphry, Lord Mayor of Dublin, 310, 311.

  French army, recruited in Ireland, 218, 220.

  Frogs, propagation of, in Ireland, 340.

  Galway, Earl of, 235.

  Grafton, Duke of, 194.

  Grimston, Lord, his "Lawyer's Fortune, or Love in a Hollow Tree," 24.

  Gwythers, Dr., introduces frogs into Ireland, 340.

  Hanmer, Sir Thomas, 387.

  Hospital for Incurables, Scheme for a, 283-303.

  Hutcheson, Hartley, 234.

  Injured Lady, Story of the, 97-103;
    Answer to the, 107-109.

  Ireland, the Test Act in, 2, 5 et seq.;
    exportation of wool from, forbidden, 17, 18, 110, 111, 157, 158;
    absentee landlords, 25, 69, 71, 101, 162;
    Sheridan's account of the state of, 26-30;
    proposal for establishing a National Bank in, 31, 38, 42, 43;
    maxims controlled in, 65;
    poverty of, 25, 66, 87, 89, 90, 122;
    increase of rents in, 67, 163;
    begging and thieving in, 70;
    Short view of the State of, 83-91;
    importation of cattle into England prohibited, 86, 100, 110, 221;
    encouragement of the linen manufactures in, 102, 158;
    luxury and extravagance among the women in, 124, 139, 198, 199, 219;
    condition of the roads in, 130;
    bad management of the bogs in, 131;
    dishonesty of tradesmen in, 142, 147;
    the National Debt of, 196;
    famine in, 203;
    population of, 208;
    persecution of Roman Catholics in, 263.

  Irish brogue, the, 346.

  Irish eloquence, 361.

  Irish language, proposal to abolish the, 133.

  Irish peers, titles of, 349.

  Japan, Account of the Court and Empire of, 382-391.

  King, Archbishop, 21, 119, 136, 244, 326.

  Lindsay, Robert, 259.

  Linen trade in Ireland, the, 88, 102, 158.

  Littleton, Sir Thomas, 7.

  Lorrain, Paul, ordinary of Newgate, 34.

  Macarrell, John, 310, 311.

  McCulla's Project about halfpence, 179-190.

  Manufactures, Irish, Proposal for the Universal use of, 17-30;
    Proposal that all Ladies should appear constantly in, 193-199.
    See also "Woollen Manufactures."

  Mar, Earl of, 164.

  Maxwell, Henry, his pamphlets in favour of a bank in Ireland, 38.

  Mist, Nathaniel, 194.

  National Debt, Proposal to pay off the, 251-258.

  Navigation Act, the effect of, in Ireland, 66, 86.

  Norton, Richard, 301.

  "Orange, the squeezing of the," 275.

  Penn, William, 120.

  Perron, Cardinal, anecdote of, 238.

  Peterborough, Lord, letter of Swift to, April 28, 1726, 154-156.

  Phipps, Sir Constantine, 244.

  "Pistorides" (Richard Tighe), 233, 235.

  Poor, Considerations about maintaining the, 339-342.

  Poyning's Law, 103, 105.

  Psalmanazar, George, his Description of the Island of Formosa, 211.

  Pulteney, William, the "Craftsman" founded by, 219, 375;
    "Answer of, to Robert Walpole," 392-400.

  Quilca, life at, 74, 75-77.

  Rents, raising of, in Ireland, 163.

  Roads, in Ireland, condition of the, 130.

  Roman Catholics, legislation against, 5;
    petty persecution of, in Ireland, 263.

  Rowley, Hercules, his pamphlets against
    the establishment of a bank in Ireland, 38.

  Savoy, Duke of, 277.

  Scotland, description of, 97, 98.

  Scots in Sweden, 9.

  Scottish colonists in Ulster, 104.

  Sheridan, Dr. Thomas, 74;
    his account of the state of Ireland, 26-30;
    given a chaplaincy by Carteret, 232, 241;
    anecdote of Carteret, related by, 232;
    informed against by Tighe, 233, 242.

  Stanley, Sir John, Commissioner of Customs, 197.

  Stannard, Eaton, elected Recorder of Dublin, 319, 366.

  Stopford, Dr. James, Bishop of Cloyne, 243.

  Street cries explained, 268-270, 275-281.

  Swan, Mr., 280.

  Swandlingbar, origin of the name of, 347.

  Swearer's Bank, the, 41.

  Swift, Godwin, 347.

  Swift, Jonathan, the freedom of the City of Dublin conferred on, 168;
    his speech on the occasion, 169-172;
    confesses the authorship of the "Drapier's Letters," 171;
    born in Dublin, 267;
    his opposition to Archbishop Boulter, 353, 354;
    his speech on the lowering of the coin, 357;
    his efforts in behalf of Mr. Dunkin, 364-368;
    receives the freedom of the City of Cork, 367;
    appoints Dr. Wynne Sub-dean of St. Patrick's, 370.

  Temple, Sir William, his comparison of Holland and Ireland, 164.

  Test Act, in Ireland, 2, 5 et seq.

  Thompson, Edward, Commissioner of the Revenue in Ireland, 315.

  Tickell, T., 242.

  Tighe, Richard, informs against Sheridan, 74, 233, 242;
    attacks Carteret, 228;
    ridiculed as "Pistorides," 233, 235.

  "Traulus" (Lord Allen), 176, 236.

  Trees, planting of, in Ireland, 132.

  Violante, Madam, 234.

  Wallis, Dr., 280.

  Walpole, Sir Robert, interview of Swift with, in 1726, 153;
    his views on Ireland, 154;
    satire on, 276;
    his literary assistants, 379, 393 et seq.;
    character of, 384 et seq.

  Waters, Edward, Swift's printer, 171, 193.

  Whitshed, Lord Chief Justice, 14, 86, 115, 129, 171, 193, 194.

  Wine, proposed tax on, 196, 197.

  Wool, Irish, exportation of,
    forbidden by law, 17, 18, 110, 111, 157, 158;
    effect of the prohibition on England, 160.

  Woollen manufactures, Irish people should use their own, 137 et seq.;
    Observations on the case of the, 147-150.

  Wynne, Rev. Dr. John, Sub-dean of St. Patrick's, 370.

~FOOTNOTES:~

[1] "Unpublished Letters of Swift," edited by Dr. Birkbeck Hill, 1899.

[2] Mr. Murray's MSS., quoted by Craik.

[3] It appeared almost impossible for Swift to see the injustice of this test clause. In reality,
it had been the outcome of the legislation against the Irish Roman Catholics. In 1703 the Irish
parliament had passed a bill by which it was enacted, "that all estates should be equally divided
among the children of Roman Catholics, notwithstanding any settlements to the contrary, unless
the persons to whom they were to descend, would qualify, by taking the oaths prescribed by
government, and conform to the established church" (Crawford's "History of Ireland," 1783,
vol. ii., p. 256). The bill was transmitted to England, for approval there, at a time when
Anne was asking the Emperor for his indulgence towards the Protestants of his realms. This
placed the Queen in an awkward position, since she could hardly expect indulgence from a Roman
Catholic monarch towards Protestants when she, a Protestant monarch, was persecuting Roman
Catholics. To obviate this dilemma, the Queen's ministers added a clause to the bill, "by which
all persons in Ireland were rendered incapable of any employment under the crown, or, of being
magistrates in any city, who, agreeably to the English test act, did not receive the sacrament
as prescribed by the Church of England" (ibid.). Under this clause, of course, came all the
Protestant Dissenters, including the Presbyterians "from the north." The bill so amended passed
into law; but its iniquitous influence was a disgrace to the legislators of the day, and his
advocacy of it, however much he was convinced of its expediency, proves Swift a short-sighted
statesman wherever the enemies of the Church of England were concerned. [T. S.]

[4] Colonel John Birch (1616-1691) was of Lancashire. Swift calls him "of Herefordshire," because
he had been appointed governor of the city of Hereford, after he had captured it by a stratagem,
in 1654. Devotedly attached to Presbyterian principles, Birch was a man of shrewd business
abilities and remarkable oratorical gifts. On the restoration of Charles II., in which he took
a prominent part on account of Charles's championship of Presbyterianism, Birch held important
business posts. He sat in parliament for Leominster and Penrhyn, and his plans for the rebuilding
of London after the Great Fire, though they were not adopted, were yet such as would have been
extremely salutary had they been accepted. Of his eloquence, Burnet says: "He was the roughest
and boldest speaker in the house, and talked in the language and phrases of a carrier, but
with a beauty and eloquence, that was always acceptable." The reference to the carrier is purposely
made, since Birch did not hide the fact that he had once pursued that occupation. Swift was
twenty-four years of age when Birch died, so that he must have been a very young man when he
heard Birch make the remark he quotes. [T. S.]

[5] Sir Thomas Littleton (1647?-1710) was chosen Speaker of the English House of Commons by
the junto in 1698. Onslow, in a note to Burnet's "History," speaks of the good work he did
as treasurer of the navy. Macky describes him as "a stern-looked man, with a brown complexion,
well shaped" (see "Characters"). At the time of Swift's writing the above letter, Littleton
was member for Portsmouth. [T. S.]

[6] Viscount Molesworth, in his "Considerations for promoting the Agriculture of Ireland" (1723),
pointed out, that even with the added expense of freight, it was cheaper to import corn from
England, than to grow it in Ireland itself. [T. S.]

[7] Mr. Lecky points out that in England, after the Revolution, the councils were directed
by commercial influence. At that time there was an important woollen industry in England which,
it was feared, the growing Irish woollen manufactures would injure. The English manufacturers
petitioned for their total destruction, and the House of Lords, in response to the petition,
represented to the King that "the growing manufacture of cloth in Ireland, both by the cheapness
of all sorts of necessaries of life, and goodness of materials for making all manner of cloth,
doth invite your subjects of England, with their families and servants, to leave their habitations
to settle there, to the increase of the woollen manufacture in Ireland, which makes your loyal
subjects in this kingdom very apprehensive that the further growth of it may greatly prejudice
the said manufacture here." The Commons went further, and suggested the advisability of discouraging
the industry by hindering the exportation of wool from Ireland to other countries and limiting
it to England alone. The Act of 10 and 11 Will. III. c. 10, made the suggestion law and even
prohibited entirely the exportation of Irish wool anywhere. See notes to later tracts in this
volume on "Observations on the Woollen Manufactures" and "Letter on the Weavers." [T. S.]

[8] That Swift did not exaggerate may be gathered from the statute books, and, more immediately,
from Hely Hutchinson's "Commercial Restraints of Ireland" (1779), Arthur Dobbs's "Trade and
Improvement of Ireland," Lecky's "History of Ireland," vols. i. and ii., and Monck Mason's
notes in his "History of St. Patrick's Cathedral," p. 320 et seq. [T. S.]

[9] Barnstaple was, at that time, the chief market in England for Irish wool. [T. S.]

[10] In 1726, Swift presented some pieces of Irish manufactured silk to the Princess of Wales
and to Mrs. Howard. In sending the silk to Mrs. Howard he wrote also a letter in which he remarked:
"I beg you will not tell any parliament man from whence you had that plaid; otherwise, out
of malice, they will make a law to cut off all our weavers' fingers." [T. S.]

