"I tried to hang onto my Silver Belt, of course," the girl continued, "but when I was brought
to the cavern here I saw that the king was going to take it. There was a notebook and a pencil
in my laboratory smock. I managed to write the note and twine it into the belt just before
it was taken from me. The king seemed to think the note enhanced the Belt's value as an ornament.
He was wearing it when I last saw it. Was he materialized in the laboratory with the Belt?"

Powell told her of the amber egg and the skeleton.

"The same sort of crystalline amber egg that accompanied the work of the mysterious Tinkling
Death, wasn't it?" Joan mused. "One of the king's lieutenants must have stolen the Belt, and
reaped prompt retribution when he tried to flee. I wonder what that weird Tinkling Death is?"

"Possibly some strange weapon of the rat-men," Powell hazarded.

"No, they are as afraid of it as we are. While I was being brought here to this cave the Tinkling
Death was heard several times in the distance, and the rat-men were obviously terrified at
the sound."

       *       *       *       *       *

The prisoners' conversation was abruptly interrupted by a rhythmic, snarling chant from the
vast horde of rat-men in the cavern above. The chant rose and fell in a rude cadence that was
suggestively ritual in nature.

"They've been doing that at intervals ever since I was first brought here," Joan commented.
"It sounds almost like the beginning of some primitive religious ceremony, doesn't it?"

Powell nodded, without telling Joan the depressing thought in his mind. The rat-men were so
low in the evolutionary scale as to be little more than beasts, and a prominent feature of
nearly all primitive religious rites is the sacrifice of living beings. Powell could not help
but wonder whether the chanting might not mark the beginning of rites which would end with
the sacrifice of himself and Joan to some monstrous deity of theirs.

The snarling chant continued with monotonous regularity for hours, while the prisoners huddled
helplessly together there on the floor of the pit, awaiting the next move of the rat-men. Any
thought of escape was out of the question. The sheer walls of the pit were always guarded by
alert sentries who had only to call to bring the entire horde to their help.

Without Powell's wrist-watch, the captives had no way of accurately following the lapse of
time, but they both realized that the twelve-hour time limit upon Joan's rescue from Arret
must be coming perilously near its end. They waited in momentary fear lest a sudden turmoil
in the cavern above them should indicate that Benjamin Marlowe had broadcast the recall wave,
whisking the two Belts back to Earth, together with the old rat-king who presumably still wore
them.

       *       *       *       *       *

The chanting above rose slowly to a snarling climax, then swiftly died away into silence. A
moment later there came the sound of thousands of claw-like feet scratching over the rocky
floor as the main horde apparently began marching out of the cavern. A detachment of fifty
rat-men appeared at the pit's edge.

A rude metal ladder was shoved down to the captives, and a metal-collared leader motioned for
them to climb up. Seeing nothing to be gained by refusal, they obeyed. They were seized as
they reached the top, and their hands again bound behind them. The overwhelming numbers of
the rat-men made any attempt at resistance futile.

There was no sign of the main horde as Joan and Powell were herded out through the empty cavern
and out into the open air again. With their prisoners in the center of their group, the rat-men
started along a well-worn path that wound through the red vegetation. Overhead the blood-red
moon still blazed down in lurid splendor.

From somewhere ahead of them the captives began to again hear the distant squealing chant of
the main horde. They steadily approached the sound, until abruptly they emerged into a huge
clearing that had apparently been a ceremonial assembly place for generations, for its smooth
sandy floor was packed down nearly to the hardness of rock.

The main horde of rat-men was there now, countless thousands of them, packed in a roughly crescent-shaped
mob, with the open side of their formation facing what seemed to be a large deep pit, some
seventy yards in circumference. In the clear space left between the horde and the edge of the
pit was a smaller group, among them the old king himself.

Powell's heart leaped as he noted that the Silver Belts were still draped over the mangy old
monarch's shoulders. If only he and Joan could get their hands on those precious Belts before
Benjamin Marlowe broadcast the recall wave that would forever snatch them out of their reach!

       *       *       *       *       *

The captives were hurried through the main horde and taken in charge by a score of picked guards
who herded them on to join a small group of four rat-men near the pit's edge. These four rodents
were apparently also prisoners, for their arms were firmly bound behind them.

The rat-king, accompanied only by the metal-collared leader, around whose shoulders the gun-belt
was still draped, stood near the pit's edge some ten yards distant from the guards and captives.
Between the prisoners and the rodent monarch the edge of the pit jutted out in a narrow tongue
of rock that extended outward for about twenty feet over the pit.

Joan and Powell had barely taken their place with the other captives when an abrupt and familiar
sound drew their attention to the floor of the pit some thirty feet beneath them. Its smooth
sandy bottom was clearly visible from where they stood. And there on that sandy floor were
six great gleaming shapes of menace which brought involuntary gasps of horrified amazement
to the captives' lips.

The faint musical tinkling sound as the things moved in occasional ponderous restlessness was
unmistakable. Joan and Powell realized that the amazing organisms responsible for the mysterious
Tinkling Death were at last before them.

The things were giant living crystals--great silvery semi-transparent shapes nearly ten feet
in height, their faceted sides pulsing in sinister and incredible life as they gleamed in unearthly
beauty beneath the blazing rays of the red moon!

Near the center of each of the giant crystals there was visible through the semi-transparent
wall a large inner nucleus of sullen opalescence that ceaselessly swirled and eddied.

Their powers of movement were apparently limited to a slow, ponderous, half-rocking, half-rolling
progress on their heavy rounded bases. They were now grouped in a rough semicircle just under
the edge of the rocky projection that extended out over the pit. The opalescent nucleus in
every silvery faceted form seemed to be "watching" with frightening intensity the figures on
the pit's edge above them.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no mistaking the meaning of the scene. The giant carnivorous crystals had obviously
been lured from their normal habitat in Arret's red vegetation, and established there in the
big pit by the rat-men to act as principals in their primitive religious ceremonies.

Those Devil Crystals waiting down there on the pit's floor were waiting to be fed--and the
small group of captives, rat-men and human beings, were to be the feast!

Utterly sick at heart, Powell wondered if they would at least be given the boon of a merciful
death before being hurled over the brink to those lurking shapes. He was not left long in doubt.

At a shrill command from the rat-king the guards closed in upon the captives and herded two
of the bound rat-men from among them. A guard placed to the lips of each of the captive brutes
a small cup containing a faintly cloudy white liquid. Apparently resigned to their fate, the
creatures docilely drained the cups.

The drugged drinks acted with startling rapidity. Scarcely a minute passed before the rodents'
eyes clouded dully, their jaws dropped slackly open, and their bodies stiffened in almost complete
rigidity.

The bonds were quickly stripped from the two stupefied creatures. The ceremonial rites apparently
required that the victims go to their doom unbound and of their own volition. The guards maneuvered
the two over to the rocky projection that jutted out over the pit.

Moving with the stiffly wooden steps of automatons, the two victims started out along the narrow
projection, leaving the guards behind. On they marched, straight for the end of the rocky strip--and
then, without a second's hesitation, they plunged on and over.

Their bodies crashed to the pit's floor squarely among the group of waiting crystals. One of
the rat-men lay motionless. The other dazedly tried to struggle to his feet--but was too late.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the side of the nearest Devil Crystal, some fifteen feet away from the dazed rat-man,
a cone-shaped projection budded with startling swiftness.

A fraction of a second more and the projection had lengthened into a long slender arm of crystalline
silver that streaked across the intervening space with the swiftness of a spear.

There was a crashing, tinkling sound as the point of the arm struck the furry body of the rat-man.
Then the arm's point sprayed into a web of shining filaments that laced the rodent's body inexorably
in their web.

The arm immediately contracted, jerking the victim irresistibly toward the waiting crystal.
A second later the rat-man was pinned against the faceted crystalline side just under the opalescent
nucleus.

The moment the furry body made contact with the crystal's side a terrifying phenomenon occurred.
Crystals grew and spread all over its form with the lightning growth of water-glass. Faster
and faster clustered the crystalline shroud, until the furry body was lanced through and through--and
all the time the air was filled with eldritch music as of a thousand sheets of thinnest glass
crashing, tinkling and shattering.

The crystal growths over the imprisoned body rounded their contours and merged together until
they were in the form of a great crystalline egg. The outlines of the rodent's body blurred
and vanished, melting swiftly until only a diamond-encrusted skeleton was left. The color of
the great Devil Crystal began to gleam pink as the victim's flesh and blood were absorbed.

The egg-like excrescence under the nucleus turned in hue to pale translucent amber in whose
depths the diamond skeleton gleamed with weird brilliance. Then there came a sudden twang,
as of a violently plucked string on a bass viol, and the amber egg dropped from the faceted
side. The Crystal's feast was over.

One of the most terrifying aspects of the whole thing had been its incredible speed. The entire
tragedy had occurred in but little over two minutes from the time the lance-arm had first struck
the rat-man.

In the meantime the body of the second rodent had been drawn in and devoured by another of
the carnivorous crystalline monsters. There came a second twang now, as its skeleton in its
amber shroud was discarded.

       *       *       *       *       *

Powell's brain reeled as he saw the other crystals move sluggishly nearer the foot of the rocky
projection in anticipation of the next victims.

The remaining two captive rat-men came next. They were swiftly drugged, unbound, and started
on their dazed march. They trudged woodenly out the rocky projection to its end, then on and
over; and again the grim tragedy of the Devil Crystal's feast was repeated, to the accompaniment
of that eerily beautiful crashing, tinkling song.

The four Devil Crystals that had completed their gruesome feast moved sluggishly away, leaving
the space clear for the two crystals that remained unfed. The score of guards closed in upon
Joan and Powell.

With the crystalline doom at last staring them squarely in the face, Powell went berserk in
a final desperate effort to gain even a moment's respite. He lashed out in a writhing, kicking
flurry that almost cleared the space around them.

Then three of the rat-men slipped behind him, and a second later his feet were jerked from
under him. His bound arms made him helpless to avert his fall, and he crashed heavily to the
ground. Then a dozen of the powerful little beasts swarmed over him, completely overpowering
him by their numbers.

Claw-like hands pried his set jaws apart. A cup of the cloudy white liquid was pressed to his
lips. He choked; then, unable to help himself, he had to let the stuff pour down his throat.
It had an acid taste faintly reminiscent of lemons. The rat-men apparently wanted to make sure
of giving him enough, for they poured another full cup of the liquid down his throat before
releasing him.

The guards then fell back and Powell stumbled to his feet. Joan was already up again, standing
close beside him. From the wry expression upon her face, Powell knew that she had also been
given the drugged potion.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a long minute the two stood there with every nerve trembling as they helplessly waited
for the paralyzing numbness to sweep over their bodies. The seconds passed slowly, and still
their minds remained as clear as though the drug had been water. Another full minute elapsed
without effect, before they could finally convince themselves of the amazing truth.

The drugged drink of the rat-men, instantly paralyzing to those of their own rodent race, was
utterly harmless to the human being from another world!

Powell instantly realized the forlorn last chance their unexpected immunity to the drug gave them.

"Play 'possum, Joan!" he whispered tensely. "Then we'll make a break for the king and those Belts!"

Joan nodded slightly in quick understanding. Powell let his jaw drop slack and open, and stiffened
his body in imitation of the stupor the rodent drug victims had shown. Joan promptly followed
his lead. The alertly watching guards relaxed their tense vigilance in obvious relief.

The guards waited another minute to be sure of the drug's effects. Then, apparently satisfied,
they stepped forward and unbound the two prisoners. Powell let his bonds drop from him without
making a hostile move of any kind. He wanted first to wait until he was free of the encircling
guards.

The rat-men maneuvered the two into position, and prodded them forward toward the projecting
point of rock. They obediently began their march, simulating as best they could the wooden
mechanical gait of the drug victims. Powell saw from the corner of his eye that Joan was tensely
watching his face for a sign from him.

As the captives reached the narrow projection the guards dropped a couple of yards behind and
halted to watch. It was the chance for which Powell had been waiting.

"Let's go!" he shouted to Joan. The girl, alert for his signal, was right beside him as they
wheeled and dashed at break-neck speed for the rat-king and his sole lieutenant, some ten yards
away.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were upon the two startled rodent leaders before they even realized what was happening.
Powell swept the squirming old king up in the air, tore the Silver Belts from about the monarch's
shoulders, and flung the creature sprawling and senseless at the pit's edge.

The lieutenant leaped for Powell's throat in a belated effort at rescue, but Powell smashed
a solid fist squarely into its snarling face, and the brute collapsed with a broken neck.

Snatching his gun-belt from the fallen rat-man, Powell crammed new clips of ammunition into
the two guns and wheeled to confront the rest of the rat-men. The detachment of guards, demoralized
by the dazzling speed of the captives' sortie, were milling in obvious uncertainty.

Behind them the thousands of the main horde were chattering and squealing in excited frenzy,
dazed and bewildered by their king's swift overthrow. The whole clearing was a seething mob
of excited beasts, stunned for the moment, but ready at any second to rally from their shock
and surge forward in a furious charge that would sweep everything before it.

Powell menaced the rat-men with levelled guns while Joan, with fingers that shook from excitement
and haste, quietly buckled one of the Silver Belts around each of them.

The guards rallied from their panic first. At a shrill command from their leader, they began
cautiously edging forward toward Joan and Powell. The two gave ground slowly, working their
way back over toward the projecting tongue of rock. Out on the end of that narrow strip, Powell
knew that he could hold the horde at bay for a few moments at least.

       *       *       *       *       *

They reached the rocky projection, and began backing slowly and carefully out toward its end.
The guards, galvanized into action by their captives' retreat, suddenly came surging forward
in a furious charge.

Powell emptied the two automatics in a crashing volley that nearly wiped out the charging guards.
The few survivors turned and fled in panic back to the main horde. Powell reloaded his clips
with feverish haste.

The thousands of rat-men in the main horde were now milling in what was apparently a last moment
of hesitation before surging forward in an irresistible stampede toward the beleaguered two
out on the rocky strip.

Several bolder individuals at the edge of the horde edged a step forward. Their example was
followed by a hundred others. Another hesitant step or two--and then the whole horde was in motion.

Powell swept the front rank with a rain of lead from one of the automatics, holding the other
as a reserve. The heavy bullets plowed murder into the close-packed furry bodies. The charge
wavered momentarily. Then Powell felt Joan tugging frantically at his arm.

"Larry, the rocks under us are crumbling!" she cried. "We'll be hurled down into the pit!"

Even as she spoke, Powell felt the narrow strip of rock under them quiver and settle. He looked
quickly down. All along its length, the narrow rocky projection, weakened by their weight,
was breaking swiftly away from the pit's edge. And on the floor of the pit below them the two
waiting Devil Crystals moved with musical, tinkling sounds as they waited restlessly for their
prey to fall among them.

The horde of rat-men rallied and swept on forward in a wave that nothing could have stopped
this time--but their charge was too late. The entire rocky projection collapsed with a final
sickening lurch, and slid to the pit's floor, carrying Joan and Powell with it in a miniature
avalanche of rocky rubble.

       *       *       *       *       *

Even in the chaos of their wild descent, Powell retained his grip upon the loaded automatic
in his hand. They struck the bottom and staggered half-dazed to their feet, to confront the
two crystalline monsters rocking on their rounded bases scarcely ten feet away.

The fatal cone-shaped projection was already beginning to form upon the silver-faceted side
of the nearest Devil Crystal. Before the lance-like arm of crystal could flash outward, Powell
sent two bullets crashing into the crystal's side just over the opalescent nucleus.

The leaden missiles caromed harmlessly off, as though they had struck armor-plate, but the
nucleus clouded momentarily and the cone-shaped projection dissolved back into the side.

With lightning speed Powell shifted his aim to the other crystal just as its partly-formed
arm was flashing toward them. His bullet crashed into the silvery side squarely over the nucleus.
Again the bullet's effect was the same. This crystal nucleus clouded murkily, and the lance-like
arm telescoped back into the faceted bulk.

But the effect of the bullets was only momentary. Swiftly the nuclei of both crystals cleared.
A deep blue film, apparently protective in nature, formed between the outer wall and each nucleus.
The cones budded, and again the arms started forth.

Powell fired again, and this time uselessly. His bullet struck squarely, but the shock of its
impact was apparently nullified by the protective blue film. He emptied his gun in a last crashing
fusillade, but without effect of any kind upon the film-guarded nuclei of the giant crystals.

Their forming arms never wavered as they came lancing forward with deadly accuracy straight
toward Joan and Powell. In a last effort to save Joan from the terrible doom of the crystal
lances as long as possible, Powell flung his own body as a shield in front of the half-fainting
girl. The tip of one of the crystalline arms struck his chest with a crashing tinkle of musical
glass.

Instantly the tip sprayed into a web of fine filaments that laced on around his body. A tinkling
shock raced through his every nerve from the contact with the weird life force of the great
crystal.

The arm began contracting. Powell was helpless against the terrific power of the slender, diamond-hard
lance of crystal. He felt himself irresistibly drawn toward the silver-faceted wall of the
Devil Crystal.

His senses reeled in the babel of alien sounds--the crashing, glass-like music of the crystalline
monsters and the snarling, squealing, paean of jubilant triumph from the thousands of rat-men
now lining the rim of the pit above.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then suddenly the pit, the Devil Crystals, and everything else in the nightmare world of Arret
was blotted out in a vast swirling cloud of pulsing roseate flame that seemed to sweep him
bodily up into the air and whirl him dizzily around.

His dazed brain staggered from the shock of the cataclysmic force that was disintegrating an
entire world around him, but through the utter chaos one thought rang clear and exultant in
his consciousness.

Benjamin Marlowe had finally broadcast the recall wave!

For what seemed endless eons of time Powell hurried through a limitless universe of swirling,
tinted fires, while vibrations of a mighty force tingled with poignant ecstasy in every atom
of his body.

Then the eddying clouds of flame began to coalesce and solidify with startling suddenness.
A moment later, like the abrupt lighting of a room when an electric switch is snapped, the
mists vanished and Powell felt firm footing again under his feet. Around him were the familiar
objects of Benjamin Marlowe's laboratory.

He was standing upon the floor-plate in the center of the area bounded by the banked green
tubes, and beside him stood Joan, sobbing with relief at their last-minute rescue from the
Devil Crystals of Arret. And over by the control panel of the recall mechanism was the slight
figure of old Benjamin Marlowe, with a great joy now shining in his faded eyes.