"But that isn't the thing," objected Carol, nestling close to her father; "it wouldn't be mine.
What is the use?  Haven't I almost everything already, and am I not the happiest girl in the
world this year, with Uncle Jack and Donald at home?  Now, Papa, you know very well it is more
blessed to give than to receive; then why won't you let me do it?  You never look half as happy
when you are getting your presents as when you are giving us ours.  Now, Papa, submit, or I
shall have to be very firm and disagreeable with you!"

"Very well, your Highness, I surrender."

"That's a dear Papa!  Now, what were you going to give me?  Confess!"

"A bronze figure of Santa Claus; and in the little round belly, that shakes, when he laughs,
like a bowl full of jelly, is a wonderful clock.  Oh, you would never give it up if you could
see it."

"Nonsense," laughed Carol; "as I never have to get up to breakfast, nor go to bed, nor catch
trains, I think my old clock will do very well! Now, Mama, what were you going to give me?"

"Oh, I hadn't decided.  A few more books, and a gold thimble, and a smelling-bottle, and a
music-box."

"Poor Carol," laughed the child, merrily, "she can afford to give up these lovely things, for
there will still be left Uncle Jack, and Donald, and Paul, and Hugh, and Uncle Rob, and Aunt
Elsie, and a dozen other people."

So Carol had her way, as she generally did, but it was usually a good way, which was fortunate,
under the circumstances; and Sarah Maud had a set of Miss Alcott's books, and Peter a modest
silver watch, Cornelius a tool-chest, Clement a dog-house for his "lame puppy," Larry a magnificent
Noah's ark, and each of the little girls a beautiful doll. You can well believe that everybody
was very merry and very thankful. All the family, from Mr. Bird down to the cook, said they
had never seen so much happiness in the space of three hours; but it had to end, as all things
do.  The candles flickered and went out, the tree was left alone with its gilded ornaments,
and Mrs. Bird sent the children down stairs at half-past eight, thinking that Carol looked tired.

"Now, my darling, you have done quite enough for one day," said Mrs. Bird, getting Carol into
her little night-dress; "I am afraid you will feel worse to-morrow, and that would be a sad
ending to such a good time."

"Oh, wasn't it a lovely, lovely time," sighed Carol. "From first to last, everything was just
right.  I shall never forget Larry's face when he looked at the turkey; nor Peter's, when he
saw his watch; nor that sweet, sweet Kitty's smile when she kissed her dolly; nor the tears
in poor, dull Sarah Maud's eyes when she thanked me for her books; nor--"

"But we mustn't talk any longer about it to-night," said Mrs. Bird, anxiously; "you are too
tired, dear."

"I am not so very tired, Mama.  I have felt well all day; not a bit of pain anywhere.  Perhaps
this has done me good."

"Perhaps; I hope so.  There was no noise or confusion; it was just a merry time.  Now, may
I close the door and leave you alone?  I will steal in softly the first thing in the morning,
and see if you are all right; but I think you need to be quiet."

"Oh, I'm willing to stay alone; but I am not sleepy yet, and I am going to hear the music by
and by, you know."

"Yes, I have opened the window a little, and put the screen in front of it, so that you will
not feel the air."

"Can I have the shutters open; and won't you turn my bed a little, please?  This morning I
woke ever so early, and one bright beautiful star shone in that eastern window.  I never saw
it before, and I thought of the Star in the East, that guided the wise men to the place where
Jesus was.  Good night, Mama.  Such a happy, happy day!" 

In the category used for this article, it has been endeavored to merge
the best ideas from the older plans with the contemporary ones, and
to prevent the trouble of having a mixed group with the large of the
families.

  Don't you?"

"I am sure of it," said Mrs. Bird, softly.

VII.

THE BIRDLING FLIES AWAY.

The Ruggleses had finished a last romp in the library with Paul and Hugh, and Uncle Jack had
taken them home, and stayed a while to chat with Mrs. Ruggles, who opened the door for them,
her face all aglow with excitement and delight.  When Kitty and Clem showed her the oranges
and nuts they had kept for her, she astonished them by saying that at six o'clock Mrs. Bird
had sent her in the finest dinner she had ever seen in her life; and not only that, but a piece
of dress-goods that must have cost a dollar a yard if it cost a cent.  As Uncle Jack went down
the little porch he looked back into the window for a last glimpse of the family, as the children
gathered about their mother, showing their beautiful presents again and again, and then upward
to a window in the great house yonder.  "A little child shall lead them," he thought; "well,
if--if anything ever happens to Carol, I will take the Ruggleses under my wing."

"Softly, Uncle Jack," whispered the boys, as he walked into the library a little while later;
"We are listening to the music in the church. They sang 'Carol, brothers, carol,' a while ago,
and now we think the organist is beginning to play 'My ain countree' for Carol."

"I hope she hears it," said Mrs. Bird; "but they are very late to-night, and I dare not speak
to her lest she should be asleep.  It is after ten o'clock."

The boy-soprano, clad in white surplice, stood in the organ loft.

The lamps shone full upon his crown of fair hair, and his pale face, with its serious blue
eyes, looked paler than usual.  Perhaps it was something in the tender thrill of the voice,
or in the sweet words, but there were tears in many eyes, both in the church and in the great
house next door.

          "I am far frae my hame,
              I am weary aften whiles
           For the langed for hame-bringin
              An' my Faether's welcome smiles.
           An' I'll ne'er be fu' content,
              Until my e'en do see
           The gowden gates o' heaven
              In my ain countree.

           The earth is decked wi' flow'rs,
              Mony tinted, fresh an' gay,
           An' the birdies warble blythely,
              For my Faether made them sae;
           But these sights an' these soun's
              Will as naething be to me,
           When I hear the angels singin'
              In my ain countree.

           Like a bairn to its mither,
              A wee birdie to its nest,
           I fain would be gangin' noo
              Unto my Faether's breast;
           For He gathers in His arms
              Helpless, worthless lambs like me,
           An' carries them Himsel'
              To His ain countree."

There were tears in many eyes, but not in Carol's.  The loving heart had quietly ceased to
beat and the "wee birdie" in the great house had flown to its "home nest."  Carol had fallen
asleep!  But as to the song, I think perhaps, I cannot say, she heard it after all!

     *      *      *      *      *

So sad an ending to a happy day!  Perhaps--to those who were left--and yet Carol's mother,
even in the freshness of her grief, was glad that her darling had slipped away on the loveliest
day of her life, out of its glad content, into everlasting peace.

She was glad that she had gone, as she had come, on wings of song, when all the world was brimming
over with joy; glad of every grateful smile, of every joyous burst of laughter, of every loving
thought and word and deed the dear, last day had brought.

