THE NATIVE BORN

       or

THE RAJAH'S PEOPLE

       by

  I. A. R. WYLIE

      1910

with Illustrations by

JOHN NEWTON HOWITT

PREFACE

In earlier days a preface to a novel with no direct historical source always seemed to me somewhat
out of place, since I believed that the author could be indebted solely to his own imagination.
I have learned, however, that even in a novel pur sang it is possible to owe much to others,
and I now take the opportunity which the despised preface offers to pay my debt--inadequately
it is true--to Mr. Hughes Massie, whose enthusiastic help in the launching of this, my first
serious literary effort, I shall always hold in grateful remembrance.

I. A. R. W.

May 9th, 1910

CONTENTS

BOOK I

CHAPTER
   I WHICH IS A PROLOGUE
  II THE DANCING IS RESUMED
 III NEHAL SINGH
  IV CIRCE
   V ARCHIBALD TRAVERS PLAYS BRIDGE
  VI BREAKING THE BARRIER
 VII THE SECOND GENERATION
VIII THE IDEAL
  IX CHECKED
   X AT THE GATES OF A GREAT PEOPLE
  XI WITHIN THE GATES
 XII THE WHITE HAND
XIII THE ROAD CLEAR
 XIV IN WHICH MANY THINGS ARE BROKEN
  XV THE GREAT HEALER
 XVI FATE
XVII FALSE LIGHT

BOOK II

   I BUILDING THE CATHEDRAL
  II CATASTROPHE
 III A FAREWELL
  IV STAFFORD INTERVENES
   V MURDER
  VI CLEARING AWAY THE RUBBISH
 VII IN THE TEMPLE OF VISHNU
VIII FACE TO FACE
  IX HALF-LIGHT
   X TRAVERS
  XI IN THE HOUR OF NEED
 XII HIS OWN PEOPLE
XIII ENVOI

THE NATIVE BORN

BOOK I

CHAPTER I

WHICH IS A PROLOGUE

The woman lying huddled on the couch turned her face to the wall and covered it with her hands
in a burst of uncontrollable horror.

"Oh, that dreadful light!" she moaned. "If it would only go out! It will send me mad. Oh, if
it would only go out--only go out!"

Her companion made no immediate answer. She stood by the wall, her shoulders slightly hunched,
her hands clasped before her in an attitude of fixed, sullen defiance. What her features expressed
it was impossible to tell, since they were hidden by the deep shadow in which she had taken
up her position. The rest of the apartment was lit with a grey, ghostly light, the reflection
from the courtyard, in part visible through the open doorway, and which lay bathed in all the
brilliancy of a full Indian moon.

"When the light goes out, it will mean that the end has come," she said at last. "Do you know
that, Christine?"

"Yes, I know it," the other answered piteously; "but that's what I want--the end. I am not
afraid to die. I know Harry will be there. He will not let it be too hard for me. It's the
suspense I can not bear. The suspense is worse than death. I have died a dozen times tonight,
and suffered as I am sure God will not let us suffer."

Margaret Caruthers bent over the cowering figure with the sympathy which education provides
when the heart fails to perform its office. There was, indeed, little tenderness in the hand
which passed lightly over Christine Stafford's feverish forehead.

"You give God credit for a good deal," she said indifferently. "If the light troubles you,
shall I shut the door?"

Christine sprang half upright.

"No!" she cried sharply. "No! I should still see it. Even when I cover my face--so--I can still
see it flickering. And then there is the darkness, and in the darkness, faces--little John's
face. Oh, my little fellow, what will become of you!" She began to cry softly, but no longer
with fear. Love and pity had struggled up out of the chaos of her despair, rising above even
the mighty instinct of self-preservation. Margaret's hand ceased from its mechanical act of
consolation.

"Be thankful that he is not here," she said.

"I am thankful--but the thought of him makes death harder. It will hurt him so."

"No one is indispensable in this world."

Christine turned her haggard, tear-stained face to the moonlight.

"How hard you are!" she said wonderingly. "You, too, have your little girl to think of, but
even with the end so close--even knowing that we shall never see our loved ones again--you
are still hard."

"I have no loved ones, and life has taught me to be hard. Why should death soften me?" was
the cold answer. Both women relapsed into silence. Always strangers to each other, a common
danger had not served to break down the barrier between them. Christine now lay quiet and calm,
her hands clasped, her lips moving slightly, as though in prayer. Her companion had resumed
her former position against the wall, her eyes fixed on the open doorway, beyond which the
grey lake of moonlight spread itself into the shadow of the walls. In the distance a single
point of fire flickered uneasily, winking like an evil, threatening eye. So long as it winked
at them, so long their lives were safe. With its extermination they knew must come their own.
Hitherto, save for the murmur of the two voices, a profound hush had weighed ominously in the
heavy air. Now suddenly a cry went up, pitched on a high note and descending by semitones,
like a dying wind, into a moan. It was caught up instantly and repeated so close that it seemed
to the two women to have sprung from the very ground beneath their feet. Christine started up.

"Oh, my God!" she muttered. "Oh, my God!" She was trembling from head to foot, but the other
gave no sign of either fear or interest. There followed a brief pause, in which the imagination
might have conjured up unseen forces gathering themselves together for a final onslaught. It
came at last, like a cry, suddenly, amidst a wild outburst of yells, screams, and the intermittent
crack of revolvers fired at close quarters. Pandemonium had been let loose on the other side
of the silver lake, but the silver lake itself remained placid and untroubled. Only the red
eye winked more vigorously, as though its warning had become more imperative.

Christine Stafford clung to a pair of unresponsive hands, which yielded with an almost speaking
reluctance to her embrace.

"You think there is no hope?" she pleaded. "None? You know what Harry said. If the regiment
got back in time--"

"The regiment will not get back in time," Margaret Caruthers interrupted. "There are ten men
guarding the gate against Heaven knows how many thousand. Do you expect a miracle? No, no.
We are a people who dance best at the edge of a crater, and if a few, like ourselves, get swallowed
up now and again, it can not be helped. It is the penalty."

"If only Harry would come!" Christine moaned, heedless of this cold philosophy. "But he will
keep his promise, won't he? He won't let us fall into those cruel hands? You remember what
happened at Calcutta--"

"Hush! Don't frighten yourself and me!" exclaimed Margaret impatiently. "Does it comfort you
to hold my hand? Well, hold it, then. How strange you are! I thought you weren't afraid."

"I shan't be when the time comes--but it's so very lonely. Don't you feel it? Are you made
of stone?"

Margaret Caruthers set her teeth hard.

"I would to God I were!" she said. All at once she wrenched her hand free and pointed with
it. Her arm, stretched out into the light, had a curious, ghostly effect. "Look!" she cried.

The red eye winked rapidly in succession, once, twice, three times, and then closed--this time
for ever. An instant later two dark spots darted out into the brightly lighted space and came
at headlong pace toward them. Christine sprang to her feet, and the two women clung to each
other, obeying for that one moment the instinct which can bind devil to saint. But it was an
English voice which greeted them from the now darkened doorway.

"It's all over!" Steven Caruthers said, entering with his companion and slamming the door sharply
to. "We have five minutes more. Mackay has promised to keep them off just so long. Stafford,
see to your wife!" He spoke brutally, in a voice choked with dust and pain. The room was now
in pitch darkness. Harry Stafford felt his way across, his arms outstretched.

"Christine!" he called.

She came to him at once, with a step as firm and steady as a man's.

"Harry!" she cried, her voice ringing with an almost incredulous joy. "Oh, my darling!"

He caught her to him and felt how calm her pulse had become.

"Are you afraid, my wife?"

"Not now. I am so happy!"

He knew, strange though it seemed, that this was true and natural, because her love was stronger
than life or the fear of death.

"Do you trust me absolutely, Christine?"

"Absolutely!"

"Give me both your hands--in my one hand--so. Kiss me, sweetheart."

In the same instant that his lips touched hers he lifted his right disengaged hand, and something
icy-cold brushed past her temple. She clung to him.

"Not yet, Harry! Not yet! Oh, don't think I don't understand. I do, and I am glad. If things
had gone differently the time must have come when one of us would have been left lonely. Now,
we are going together. What does it matter if it is a little sooner than we hoped? Only, not
yet--just one minute! We have time. Do not let us waste it. Let us kneel down and say 'Our
Father,' and then--for little John--" Her voice broke. "Afterward--when you think fit, husband,
I shall be ready."

He put his arm about her, and they knelt down side by side at the little couch. Christine prayed
aloud, and he followed her, his deeper voice hushed to a whisper.

The two other occupants of the room did not heed them. They, too, had found each other. At
her husband's entrance Margaret Caruthers had crept back to the wall and had remained there
motionless, not answering to his sharp, imperative call. He groped around the room, and when
at length his hands touched her face, both drew back as one total stranger from another.

"Why did you not answer?" he asked hoarsely. "Are you not aware that any moment may be our last?"

"Yes," she said.

"I have something I wish to say to you, Margaret, before the time comes."

"I am listening."

"I wish to say if at any period in our unfortunate married life I have done you wrong, I am sorry."

She made no answer.

"I ask your forgiveness."

"I forgive you."

The sound of firing outside had grown fainter, the shrieks louder, more exultant, mingling
like an unearthly savage chorus with the hushed voices By the couch.

--"Thy will be done--" prayed Christine valiantly.

Margaret Caruthers lifted her head and laughed.

"Don't laugh!" her husband burst out. "Pray now, if you have ever prayed in your life. You
have need of prayers." He lifted his arm as he spoke; but, as though she guessed his intention,
she sprang out of his reach.

"No!" she said, in a voice concentrated with passion. "I am not going to die like that. Stafford
can shoot his wife down like a piece of blind cattle if he thinks fit--but not you. I won't
die by your hand, Steven. I hate you too much."

"Hush!" he exclaimed. "The account between us is settled."

"Do you think I can begin to love you just because we are both about to die?"

"You are my wife," he answered, grasping her by the wrists. "There are things worse than death,
and from them I shall shield you, whether you will or not."

"Is it not enough that you have taken my life once?" she retorted.

"What do you mean? How dare you say that!"

"I say it because it is true. I have never lived--never. You killed me years ago--all that
was best in me. Save your soul from a second murder."

"If you live, do you know what may lie before you?"

"You talk of things 'worse than death.' What shame, what misery could be worse than the years
spent at your side?"

"You are mad, Margaret. I shall pay no attention to you. I must save you against your will."

All through the hurried dialogue neither had spoken above a whisper. Even in that moment they
obeyed the habit of a lifetime, hiding hatred and bitterness beneath a mask of apparent calm.
Without a sound, but with a frantic strength, Margaret wrenched herself free.

"Leave me to my own fate!" she demanded, in the same passionate undertone. "You have ceased
to be responsible for me."

He made one last effort to hold her. In the same instant the firing ceased altogether. There
followed the roar and crash of bursting timber, the pattering of naked feet, the fanatic yells
drawing every second nearer.

"Margaret!" he cried wildly, holding out his revolver in the darkness. "If not at my hands,
then at your own. Save yourself--"

"I shall save myself, have no fear!" she answered, with a bitter, terrible laugh.

From the couch Christine Stafford's voice rose peacefully:

"Lord, into Thy hands I commend my spirit!"

Another voice answered, "Amen!" There was the report of a revolver and a sudden, startling
stillness. It lasted only a breathing space. Furious shoulders hurled themselves against the
frail, weakly barred door. It cracked, bulged inward, with a bursting, tearing sound, yielded.
The moonlight flooded into the little room, throwing up into bold relief the three upright
figures and the little heap that knelt motionless by the couch.

The crowd of savage faces hesitated, faltering an instant before the sahibs who yesterday had
been their lords and masters. Then the sahibs fired. It was all that was needed. The room filled.
There was one stifled groan--no more than that. No cry for mercy, no whining.

Little by little the room emptied again. The cries and bloodthirsty screams of triumphant vengeance
died slowly in the distance, the grey moonlight resumed its peaceful sovereignty. Only here
and there were dark stains its silver could not wash away.

CHAPTER II

THE DANCING IS RESUMED.

"Oh, I love India--adore it, simply!" Mrs. Cary exclaimed, in the tone of a person who, usually
self-controlled, finds himself overwhelmed by the force of his own enthusiasm. "There is something
so mystic, so enthralling about it, don't you think? I always feel as though I were wandering
through a chapter of the Arabian Nights full of gorgeous princes, wicked robbers, genii, or
whatever you call them. Isn't it so with you, Mrs. Carmichael?"

Her hostess, a thin, alert little woman with a bony, weather-beaten face, cast an anxious glance
at the rest of her guests scattered about the garden.

"There aren't any robbers about here--except my cook," she said prosaically. "My husband wouldn't
allow such a thing in his department, and in mine he is no good at all. As for the princes,
we don't see anything of the only one this region boasts of. He may be gorgeous, but I really
can not say for certain."

"Ah!" said Mrs. Cary, with a placid smile. "You have been in fairyland too long, dear Mrs.
Carmichael. That's what's the matter with you. You are beginning to look upon it as a very
ordinary, everyday place. If you only knew what it is to come to it with a virgin heart and
mind-thirsting for impressions, as it were. That is how we feel, do we not, Beatrice?" She
half turned to the girl standing at her side, as though seeking to draw her into the conversation.

"It is indeed new for me," the latter answered shortly, and with slight emphasis on the personal
pronoun.

"I was about to remark that this is scarcely your first visit to India," Mrs. Carmichael put
in. "I understood that your late husband had a government appointment somewhere in the South?"

Mrs. Cary's heavy face flushed, though whether with heat or annoyance it was not easy to judge.

"Of course--a very excellent appointment, too--but the place and the people!" She became confidential
and her voice sank, though beyond her daughter there was no one within hearing. "Between you
and me, Mrs. Carmichael, the people were dreadful. You know, I am not snobbish--indeed I must
confess to quite democratic tendencies, which my family always greatly deplores--but I really
couldn't stand the people. I had to go back to England with Beatrice. The place was filled
with subordinate railway officials. Don't you hate subordinates, dear Mrs. Carmichael?"

Mrs. Carmichael stared, during which process her eyes happened to fall on Beatrice Cary's half-averted
face. She was surprised to find that the somewhat thin lips were smiling--though not agreeably.

"I really don't know what you mean by 'subordinates,'" Mrs. Carmichael said, in her uncompromising
way. "Most people are subordinates at some time or other. My husband was a lieutenant once.
I don't remember objecting to him. At any rate," she continued hastily, as though to cut the
conversation short, "I hope you will like the people here."

"I'm sure I shall. A military circle is always so delightful. That is what I said to Beatrice
when I felt that I must revisit the scene of my girlish days. 'We must go somewhere where there
is military.' Of course, we might have gone to Simla--I have influential friends there, you
know--but I wanted my girl to see a real bit of genuine India, and Simla is so modern. Really
a great pity, I think. I am so passionately fond of color and picturesqueness--comfort is nothing
to me. As my husband used to say, 'Oh, Mary, you are always putting your artistic feelings
before material necessities.' Poor fellow, he used to miss his creature comforts sometimes,
I fear."

Her laugh, painfully resembling a giggle, interrupted her own garrulity, which was finally
put to an end by a fresh arrival. A slight, daintily-clad figure had detached itself from a
group of guests and came running toward them. Mrs. Carmichael's deeply lined, somewhat severe
face lighted up.

"That is my husband's ward, Lois Caruthers," she said. "She has been with me all her life,
practically. As you are so fond of genuine India, you must let her show you over the place.
She knows all the dirtiest, and I suppose most interesting corners, with their exact history."

"Delightful!" murmured Mrs. Cary, with a gracious nod of her plumed headgear. Nevertheless,
she studied the small figure and animated features of the new-comer with a critical severity
not altogether in accordance with her next remark, uttered, apparently under pressure of the
same irresistible enthusiasm, in an audible side whisper: "What a sweet face--so piquant!"

An adjective is a pliable weapon, and, in the hands of a woman, can be made to mean anything
under the sun. Mrs. Cary's "piquant"--pronounced in a manner that was neither French nor English,
but a startling mixture of both--had a background to it of charitable patronage. It was meant,
without doubt, to be a varnished edition of "plain," perhaps even "ugly," though Lois Caruthers
deserved neither insinuation. Possibly too small in build, she was yet graceful, and there
was a lithe, elastic energy in her movements which drew attention to her even among more imposing
figures. Possibly, also, she was too dark for the English ideal. Her black hair and large brown
eyes, together with the unrelieved pallor of her complexion, gave her appearance something
that was exotic but not unpleasing. Enfin, as most people admitted, she had her charm; and
her moods, which ranged from the most light-hearted gaiety to the deepest gravity, could be
equally irresistible. She was light-hearted enough now, however, as she smiled from one to
the other, including mother and daughter in her friendly greeting, though as yet both were
strangers to her.

"I have come to fetch you, Aunt Harriet," she said, addressing Mrs. Carmichael. "Mr. Travers
has got some great scheme on hand which he will only disclose in your presence. We are all
gasping with curiosity. Will you please come?"

Mrs. Carmichael nodded.

"I will come at once," she said. "I'm sure it's only one of Mr. Travers' breakneck schemes,
but they are always amusing to listen to. Lois, come and be introduced. My adopted niece--Mrs.
Cary--Miss Cary."

They shook hands.

"Lois, when there is time, I want you to do the honors of Marut. Miss Cary especially has as
yet seen nothing, and there is a great deal of interest. You know--" turning to her visitors--"Marut
is supposed to have been the hotbed of the last rising."

"Indeed!" murmured Mrs. Cary vaguely. "How delightful!"

Lois Caruthers laughed, not without a shadow of bitterness.

"It was hardly delightful at the time, I should imagine," she observed. "But what there is
to see I shall be very glad to show you. Will any day suit you?"

"Oh, yes, any day," Beatrice Cary assented, speaking almost for the first time. "I have nothing
to do here from morning to night."

"That will soon change," Lois said, walking by her side. "I am always busy, either playing
tennis, or riding, or getting up some entertainment. The difficulty is to find time to rest."

"You must be a very much sought-after person," Beatrice observed, in the tone of a person who
is making a graceful compliment. The hint of irony, however, was unmistakable.

"I am not more sought after than any one else," Lois returned, unruffled. "Every one has to
help in the work of frivolity."

"I shall be rather out of it, then," Beatrice said coolly. "I am not amusing."

"It is quite sufficient to be willing, good-natured and good-humored," Lois answered.

They had by this time reached the group under the trees, where Mrs. Carmichael and her companion
had already arrived, under the escort of a tall, stoutly built man, who was talking and apparently
explaining with great vigor. As Lois entered the circle, he glanced up and smiled at her, revealing
a handsome, cheerful face, singularly fresh-colored in comparison with the deep tan of the
other men.

"That is Mr. Travers," Lois explained. "He is a bank director or something in Madras, and has
been on a long business visit north. He is awfully clever and popular, and gets up everything."

"Rich, I suppose?"

Lois glanced up at her companion. The beautiful profile and the tone of the remark seemed incongruous.

"I don't know," she said rather abruptly. "He has four polo ponies. Nobody else has more than two."

"Do you calculate wealth by polo ponies, then?"

Lois laughed.

"Yes, we do pretty well," she said--"that is, when we bother about such things at all. Most
people are poor, and if they aren't, they have to live beyond their income, so it comes to
the same in the end."

"Everybody looks cheerful enough," Beatrice Cary observed. "I always thought poverty and worry
went together."

"Who is that talking about poverty and worry?" asked a voice behind them. "Is it you, Miss
Caruthers? If so, I shall arraign you as a disturber of the peace. Who wants to be bothered
with the memory of his empty purse on such a lovely day?"

Lois turned with a smile to the new-comer.

"No, I am innocent, Captain Stafford," she said. "It was Miss Cary who brought up the terms
you object to."

"Well, won't you introduce me, then, so that I can express my displeasure direct to the culprit?"

The ceremony of introduction was gone through, on Beatrice Cary's side with a sudden change
of manner. Hitherto cold, indifferent, slightly supercilious, she now relaxed into a gentleness
that was almost appealing.

"This is a new world for me," she said, looking up into Captain Stafford's amused face, "and
I have so many questions to ask that I am afraid of turning into a mark of interrogation, or--as
you said--a disturber of the peace."

"You won't ask questions long," he answered, with a wise shake of the head. "Nobody does. Wherever
English people go they take their whole paraphernalia with them; and you will find that, with
a few superficial differences, Marut is no more or less than a snug little English suburb.
A little more freedom of intercourse--a little less Philistinism, perhaps--but the foundations
are the same. As to India itself, one soon learns to forget all about it."

He then turned to Lois, who was intent on watching Mr. Travers.

"You weren't on the race-course this morning," he said in an undertone. "I missed you. Why
did you not come?"

"I couldn't," she said. "There was too much to be done. We are rather short of servants just
now, for reasons--well, that, according to you, ought not to be mentioned on a fine day."

He laughed, but not as he had hitherto done. There was another tone in his voice, warmer, more
confidential. It attracted Beatrice Cary's attention, and she looked curiously from Lois to
the man beside her. About thirty-five, with a passably good figure, irregular, if honest, features,
and an expression usually somewhat grave, he made no pretensions to any exterior advantage.
He could apparently be gay, as now, but his gaiety did not conceal the fact that it was unusual.
Altogether, he had nothing about him which appealed to her, but Beatrice Cary was inclined
to resent Lois' obvious intimacy with him as something which accentuated her own isolation.

"Can you make out what Mr. Travers is saying?" Lois asked, turning suddenly to her. "I can't
hear a word, and I'm sure it's awfully interesting. Captain Stafford, do you know?"

"I can guess," he answered, half smiling. "When Travers has a suggestion to make, it usually
means that some one has to stump up."

There was a general laugh. Travers looked around.

"Some one has accused me falsely," he declared. "I have a prophetic sense of injury."

"On the contrary, that is what I am suffering from," Stafford retorted. "Since hearing that
you have a new scheme, I have been hastily reckoning how many weeks' leave I shall have to
sacrifice to pay for it."

Travers shook his head.

"As usual--wrong, my dear Captain," he said. "My scheme has two parts. The first part is known
to you all, though for the benefit of weak memories, I will repeat it. Ladies and gentlemen,
in this Station we have the honor of being protected from the malice of the aborigine by two
noble regiments. We count, moreover, at least thirty of the fair sex and forty miscellaneous
persons, such as miserable civilians like myself, and children. Hitherto, we have been content
to meet at odd times and odd places. When hospitality has run dry, we have resorted to a shed-like
structure dignified with the name of club. Personally, I call it a disgrace, which should at
once be rectified."

"I have already contributed my mite!" protested a young subaltern from the British regiment.

"I know; so has everybody. With strenuous efforts I have collected the sum of five hundred
rupees. That won't do. We require at least four times that sum. Consequently, we must have
a patron."

"The second part of your programme concerns the patron, then?" Captain Webb inquired, with
an aspect of considerable relief. "Not yourself, by any chance?"

"Certainly not. If I had any noble inclinations of that sort I should have discovered them
a long time ago. No, I content myself with taking the part of a fairy godmother."

"I'm afraid I don't follow," Stafford put in. "What is the fairy godmother going to do for
us? Produce a club-house, a patron, or a cucumber?"

"A patron, and one, my dear fellow, whom I should have entirely overlooked had it not been
for you."

"For me!"

"It was you who made the discovery that the present Rajah is not, as we thought, an imbecilic
youth, but a man of many parts and splendidly adapted to our requirements."

"I protest!" broke in Stafford, with unusual earnestness. "It was by pure chance that, in an
audience with the Maharajah Scindia, the late regent of Marut, I got to hear that his whilom
ward was both intelligent and cultured. I believe it was a slip on his part, and, seeing that
Rajah Nehal Singh has shunned all English intercourse, I can not see that there is any likelihood
of his adapting himself or his purse to your plans."

"Oh, bosh!" exclaimed Travers impatiently. "You are too cautious, Stafford. Other rajahs interest
themselves in social matters--why not this one? He is fabulously rich, I understand, and a
little gentle handling should easily bring him around."

There was a chorus of bravos, in which only one or two did not join. One was Colonel Carmichael,
who stood a little apart, pulling his thin grey moustache in the nervous, anxious way peculiar
to him, his kindly face overshadowed.

"On principle," he began, after the first applause had died down, "I am against the suggestion.
Of course, I have no deciding voice in the matter, but I confess that the idea has not my approval.
I know very well that, as you say, other native princes have proved themselves useful and valuable
acquisitions to English society. In some cases it may be well enough, though in no case does
it seem to me right to accept hospitality from a man to whom we only grant an apparent equality.
In this particular case I consider the idea--well, repulsive."

"May I ask why, Colonel?" Travers asked sharply.

"By all means. Because less than a quarter of a century ago the father of the man from whom
you are seeking gifts slaughtered by treachery hundreds of our own people."

An uncomfortable, uneasy silence followed. Captain Stafford and Lois exchanged a quick glance
of understanding.

"I know of at least two people who will agree with me," continued the Colonel, who had intercepted
and possibly anticipated the glance.

"You are right, Colonel," Stafford said. "I bear no malice, and any idea of revenge seems to
me foolish. As far as I know, the present Rajah is all that can be desired, but I protest against
a suggestion--and what is worse, a practice, which must inevitably lower our dignity in the
eyes of those we are supposed to govern."

The awkward silence continued for a moment, no one caring to express a contrary opinion, though
a contrary opinion undoubtedly existed.

Beatrice looked up at Captain Webb, who happened to be standing at her side. Her acquaintance
with him dated only from an hour back, but an uncontrollable irritation made her voice her
opinions to him.

"I think all that sort of thing rather overstrained and unnecessary," she said. "Your chief
business is to get the best out of life, and quixotic people who worry about the means are
rather a nuisance, don't you think?"

Captain Webb's bored features lighted up with a faint amusement.

"O, Lor', you mustn't say that sort of thing to me, Miss Cary!" he said in a subdued aside.
"Superior officer, you know! If you want an index to my feelings, study my countenance." He
pretended to smother a gigantic yawn, and Beatrice's cool, unchecked laughter broke the constraint.

Travers look around with a return of his old good-humor.

"Well," he said, "I have two votes against my plans, but, with due respect to those two, who
are, perhaps, unduly influenced by unfortunate circumstances, I feel that it is only just that
the others should be given a voice in the matter. Do you agree, Colonel?"

Colonel Carmichael had by this time regained his placid, gentle manner.

"Certainly," he agreed, without hesitation.

"Hands up, then, for letting Rajah Nehal Singh go his way in peace!"

Three hands went up--Colonel Carmichael's, Stafford's and Lois'. Beatrice glanced at the latter
with a smile that expressed what it was meant to express--a supercilious amusement. Her indifference
was rapidly taking another and more decided character.

"Hands up for drawing the bashful youth into Circe's circle!" called Travers, now thoroughly
elated. A forest of hands went up. Captain Webb and his bosom comrade, Captain Saunders, who,
for diplomatic reasons had remained neutral, exchanged grins. "You see," Travers said, turning
with deferential politeness to the Colonel, "the day is against you."

"The Old Guard dies, but never surrenders!" quoted the Colonel good-humoredly.

"The next question is, on whose shoulders shall the task of beguilement fall?" Travers went
on, glancing at Stafford. "I suppose you, O, wise young judge--?"

"It is out of the question," Stafford answered at once. "I consider I have done enough damage
already."

"What about your serpent's tongue, Travers?" suggested Webb. "When I think of the follies you
have tempted me to commit, I feel that you should be unanimously elected."

Travers bowed his acknowledgments with mock gravity.

"Since there are no other candidates, I accept the onerous task," he said, "but I can not go
about it single-handed. The serpent's tongue may be mine, but I lack, I fear, the grace and
personal charm necessary for complete conquest. I need the help of Circe, herself." His bright,
bird-like eye passed over the laughing group, resting on Lois an instant with an expression
of woebegone regret. Beatrice Cary was the next in line, and his search went no farther than
her flushed, eager face. "Ah!" he exclaimed, "I have found the enchantress herself! Miss----"
He hesitated, for an instant unaccountably shaken out of his debonair self-possession. Webb
sprang to the rescue with a formal introduction, and Travers proceeded, if not entirely with
his old equanimity. "I beg your pardon, Miss Cary," he apologized. "Your face is, strangely
enough, so familiar to me that I took you for an old acquaintance--perhaps, indeed, you are,
if in our modern days Circe finds it necessary to travel incognito."

Beatrice joined in the general amusement, her unusually large and beautiful eyes bright with
elation.

"May I claim your assistance?" Travers went on. "Instinct tells me that we shall be irresistible."

"Willingly," Beatrice responded, "though I can not imagine how I can help you."

"Leave that to me," he said, offering her his arm. "My plans are Napoleonic in their depth
and magnitude. If you will allow me to unfold them to you before the dancing begins--?"

She smiled her assent, and walked at his side toward the Colonel's bungalow. On their way they
passed Mrs. Cary, who, strangely enough, did not respond to the half-triumphant glance which
her daughter cast at her. She turned hastily aside.

"Mr. Travers is no doubt--" she began, in a confidential undertone; but her companion, Mrs.
Carmichael, had taken the opportunity and vanished.

The light-hearted, superficial discussion, with its scarcely felt undercurrent of tragic reminiscence,
had lasted through the swift sunset, and already dusk was beginning to throw its long shadows
over the gaily dressed figures that streamed up toward the bungalow.

On the outskirts of the garden lights were springing up in quick succession, thanks to the
industry of Mrs. Carmichael, who hurried from one Chinese lantern to the other, breathless
but determined. The task was doubtless an ignominious one for an Anglo-Indian lady of position,
but Mrs. Carmichael, who acted as a sort of counterbalance to her husband's extravagant hospitality,
cared not at all. England, half-pay and all its attendant horrors, loomed in the near future,
and economy had to be practised somehow.

Of the late group only Lois and John Stafford remained. They had not spoken, but, as though
obeying a mutual understanding, both remained quietly waiting till they were alone.

"Shall we walk about a little?" he asked at last. "I missed our morning ride so much. It has
put my whole day out of joint, and I want something to put it straight again. Do you mind,
or would you rather dance? I see they have begun."

"No," she said. "I would rather be quiet for a few minutes. Somehow I have lost the taste for
that sort of thing to-night."

"I also," he responded.

They walked silently side by side along the well-kept path, each immersed in his own thoughts
and soothed by the knowledge that their friendship had reached a height where silence is permitted--becomes
even the purest form of expression. At the bottom of the compound they reached a large, low-built
building, evidently once a dwelling-place, overgrown with wild plants and half in ruins, whose
dim outlines stood out against the darkening background of trees and sky. The door stood open,
and must indeed have stood open for many years, for the broken hinges were rusty and seemed
to be clinging to the torn woodwork only by the strength of undisturbed custom.

Stafford came to a halt.

"That is where--" he began, and then abruptly left his sentence unfinished.

"Yes," she said, "it is here. I don't think, as long as we live in India, that my guardian
will ever have it touched. He calls it the Memorial. My father was his greatest friend, and
the terrible fact that he came too late to save him has saddened his whole life."

Stafford looked down at her. The light from a lantern which Mrs. Carmichael, with great dexterity,
had fixed among some overhanging branches, fell on the dark features, now composed and thoughtful.
She met his glance in silence, with large eyes that had taken into their depths something of
the surrounding shadow. He had never felt so strongly before the peculiarity of her fascination--perhaps
because he had never seen her in a setting which seemed so entirely a part of herself. The
distant music, the hum of voices, and that strange charm which permeates an Indian nightfall--above
all, the ruined bungalow with its shattered door and silent memories--these things, with their
sharp contrasts of laughter and tragedy, had formed themselves into a background which belonged
to her, so that she and they seemed inseparable.

"Oh, Lois, little girl!" Stafford said gently. "I have always thought of you as standing alone,
different from everything and everybody, a stranger from another world, irresistible, incomprehensible.
I have just understood that you are part and parcel of it all, child of the sun and flowers
and mysteries and wonders. It is I who am the stranger!"

"Hush!" she said, in a voice of curious pain. "Hush! Let us go back. We must dance--whether
we will or not."

He followed her without protest. The very rustle of her muslin skirts over the fallen leaves
made for his ears a new and fantastic music.

Close behind them wandered the two captains, Webb and Saunders, arm in arm. At the entrance
to Colonel Carmichael's Memorial Webb stopped, and, striking a match against the door, proceeded
to light his cigar. The tiny flame lit up for an instant the languid patrician features.

"A cigar is one's only comfort in a dull affair like this," he remarked, as they resumed their
leisurely promenade. "Awful wine, wasn't it?"

"Awful. The Colonel is beginning to put on the curb--or his lady. It's the same thing."

"It will be better when the club comes into existence," said Webb, blowing consolatory clouds
of smoke into the quiet air.

"It is to be hoped so. Spunky devil, that Travers. Wonder how he means to do the trick. He
knows how to pick out a pretty partner, anyhow."

"That Cary girl? Yes. Wait till the heat has dried her up, though. She'll be a scarecrow, like
the rest of them. By the way, what were her people?"

"Heaven knows--something in the D.P.W., I believe. The mother was dressed in the queerest kit."

"I heard her talking about 'the gentlemen,'" remarked Webb, laughing, as they went up the steps
of the bungalow together.

The Memorial was once more left to its shadows and silence. At the edge of the compound a group
of natives peered through the fencing, watching and listening. Their dark faces expressed neither
hatred nor admiration, nor sorrow, nor pleasure--at most, a dull wonder.

When they were tired of watching, they passed noiselessly on their way.

CHAPTER III

NEHAL SINGH

The Royal apartment was prepared for the suffocating midday heat. Heavy hangings had been pulled
across the door which led on to the balcony, and only at one small aperture the sunshine ventured
to pierce through and dance its golden reflection hither and thither over the marble floor.
The rest was hidden in the semi-obscurity of a starlit night, which, like a transparent veil,
half conceals and half reveals an untold richness and splendor.

At either side slender Moorish pillars rose to the lofty ceiling, and from their capitals winking
points of light shimmered through the shadows. Fantastic designs sprang into sudden prominence
on the walls, shifting with the shifting of the sunshine, and at the far end, raised by steps
from the level of the floor, stood a throne, alone marked out against the darkness by its bejeweled
splendor. Of other furniture there was no trace. To the left a divan formed of silken cushions
had been built up for temporary use, and on this, stretched full length on his side, lay an
old man whose furrowed visage appeared doubly dark and sinister beneath the dead white of his
turban. His head was half supported on a pillow, and thus at his ease he watched with unblinking,
unflagging attention the tall, slight figure by the doorway.

It was the Rajah himself who had let in the one point of daylight. It fell full upon his face
and set into a brilliant blaze the single diamond on the nervous, muscular hand which held
the curtain aside. Apparently he had forgotten his companion, and indeed everything save the
scene on which his eyes rested. Beneath the balcony, like steps to a mighty altar, broad and
beautiful terraces descended in stately gradations to a paradise of rare exotic flowers, whose
heavy perfume came drifting up on the calm air to the very windows of the palace. This lovely
chaos extended for about a mile and then ended abruptly. As though cultivated nature had suddenly
broken loose from her artificial bounds, a dark jungle-forest rose up side by side with the
flowers and well-kept walks, and like a black stain spread itself into the distance, swallowing
up hill and valley until the eye lost itself in the haze of the horizon. Within a few hundred
yards of the palace a ruined Hindu temple lifted its dome and crumbling towers into the intense
blue of the sky. And on garden, jungle, and temple alike the scorching midday sun blazed down
with pitiless impartiality.

For an hour the Rajah had remained watching the unchanging scene, scarcely for an instant shifting
his own position. One hand rested on his hip, the other held back the curtain and supported
him in a half-leaning attitude of dreamy indolence. Against the intensified darkness of the
room behind him his features stood out with the distinctness of a finely cut cameo. A man of
about twenty-five years, he yet seemed younger, thanks, perhaps, to his expression, which was
extraordinarily untroubled.

Thought, poetic and philosophic, but never tempestuous, sat in the dark, well-shaped eyes and
high, intellectual forehead. Humor, sorrow, care, anxiety and doubt, the children of a strenuous
life, had left his face singularly unscarred with their characteristic lines. For the rest,
beyond that he was unusually fair, he represented in bearing and in feature a Hindu prince
of high caste and noble lineage. Between him and the old man upon the divan there was no apparent
resemblance. The latter was considerably darker, and lacked both the refinement of feature
and dignity of expression which distinguished the younger man. Nevertheless, when he spoke
it was in the tone of familiarity, almost of paternal authority.

"Art thou not weary, my son?" he asked abruptly. "For an hour thou hast neither moved nor spoken.
Tell me with what thy thoughts are concerned. I would fain know, and thy face has told me nothing."

Nehal Singh let the curtain fall back into its place, and the yellow patch of sunshine upon
the marble faded. He looked at his companion steadfastly, but with eyes that saw nothing.

"My thoughts!" he repeated, in a low, musical voice. "My thoughts are valueless. They are like
caged birds which have beaten their wings against the bars of their cage and now sit on their
golden perches and dream of the world beyond." He laughed gently. "No, my father. You, who
have seen the world, would mock at them as dim, unreal reflections of a reality which you have
touched and handled. For me they are beautiful enough."

The old man lifted himself on his elbow.

"Thinkest thou never of thyself?" he asked. "In thy dreams hast thou never seen thine own form
rise at the call of thy waiting people?"

"My waiting people!" Nehal Singh repeated, with a smile and a faint lifting of the eyebrows.
"No people wait for me, my father. So much I have learned. I bear a title, a tract of land
acknowledges my rule--but a people! No, like my title, like my power, like myself, so is the
people that thou sayest await me--a dream, my father, a dream!" He spoke gravely, without sadness,
the same gentle, wistful smile playing about his lips.

The other sank back with a groan.

"The All-Highest pity me!" he exclaimed bitterly. "A child of blood and battle, without energy,
without ambition!"

Nehal Singh, who had paced forward to the foot of the throne, turned and looked back.

"Ambition I have had," he answered, "energy I have had. Like my thoughts, they have beaten
themselves weary against the bars of their cage. What would you have me do?" He strode back
to the door, and, pulling aside the curtain, let the full dazzling sunshine pour in upon them.
"See out there!" he cried. "Is it not a sight to bring peace to the soul of the poet and the
dreamer? But for the warrior? Can he draw his sword against flowers and trees?"

The old man smiled coldly, but not without satisfaction.

"There is a world that awaiteth thee beyond," he said.

"A world of which I know nothing."

"The time cometh."

Nehal Singh studied the wrinkled face with a new intentness.

"Hitherto thou hast always held a barrier between the world and me," he said. "When the call
to the Durbar came, it was thou who bade me say I was ill. When the Feringhi sought my presence,
it was thou who held fast my door, first with one excuse, then with another. And now? I do
not understand thee."

Behar Asor struggled up into a sitting posture, his features rendered more malignant by a glow
of fierce triumph.

"Ay, the barrier has been there!" he cried. "It is I who have held it erect all these years
when they thought me dead and powerless. It is I who have kept thee spotless and undefiled,
Nehal Singh, thou alone of all thy race and of all thy caste! The shadow of the Unbeliever
has never crossed thy man's face, his food thy lips, nor has his hand touched thy man's hand.
Thou art the chosen of Brahma, and when the hour striketh and the Holy War proclaimed from
east to west and from north to south, then it shall be thy sword--"

Nehal Singh held up his hand with a gesture of command.

"Thou also art a dreamer," he said firmly. "Thy heart is full of an old hatred and an old injury.
My heart is free from both. Seest thou, my father, there were years when thy words called up
some echo in me. Thou toldest me of the Feringhi, of the bloody battles thou foughtest against
them because they had wronged thee; how, after Fortune had smiled faintly, thou wert driven
into exile, and I, thy son, bereft of all save pomp and title, placed upon thy empty throne.
These things made my blood boil. In those days I thought and planned for the great hour when
I should seek revenge for thee and for myself. That is all past."

"Why all past?" Behar Asor demanded.

"Because the truth drifted in to me from the outer world. I saw that everywhere there was peace
such as my land, even after thy account, has rarely known. Law and order reigned where there
had been plundering and devastation, prosperity where there had been endless famine. More than
this, I saw that in every conflict, whether between beast and beast or man and man, it was
always the strongest and wisest that conquered. The triumph of the fool and weakling is but
a short one, nor is the rule of crime and wickedness of long duration. Why, then, should I
throw myself against a people who have brought my people prosperity, and who have proved themselves
in peace and war our masters in courage and wisdom?"

Behar Asor struggled up, galvanized by a storm of passion which shook his fragile frame from
head to foot.

"Thou art still no more than an ignorant boy," he exclaimed. "What knowest thou of these things?"

"I have read of Englishmen whose deeds outrival the legends of Krishna," Nehal Singh answered
thoughtfully. "They fought in your time, my father. Thou knowest them better than I."

The old man ground his teeth together.

"They are dead." There was a reluctant admiration in his tone.

"Nevertheless, their sons live."

"The sons inherit not always the courage of their fathers," Behar Asor answered, with a bitter
significance.

Nehal Singh had wandered back to the throne, as though drawn thither by some irresistible attraction,
and stood there motionless, his arms folded across his breast.

"Do not blame me," he said at last. "No man can go against himself. Were it in my power, I
would do thy will. As it is, without cause or reason I can not draw my sword against men whose
fathers have made my heart beat with sympathy and admiration."

Behar Asor sank back in an attitude of absolute despair.

"I am accursed!" he said.

With a smothered sigh, Nehal Singh mounted the steps and seated himself. In his attitude also
there was a hopelessness--not indeed the hopelessness of a man whose plans are thwarted, but
of one who is keenly conscious that he has no plans, no goal, no purpose. As he sat there,
his fine head thrown back against the white ivory, his eyes half closed, his fingers loosely
clasping the golden peacocks' heads which formed the arms of his throne, there was, as he had
said, something dreamlike and unreal about his whole person, intensified perhaps by the dim
atmosphere and shadowy splendor of his surroundings.

Behar Asor had ceased to watch him, but lay motionless, with his face covered by the white
mantle which he wore about his shoulders. The first storm of angry disappointment over, he
had relapsed into a passive oriental acceptance of the inevitable, which did not, however,
exclude an undercurrent of bitter brooding and contempt.

Some time passed before either of the two men spoke. At last Behar Asor lifted his head and
glanced quickly sidewise at the figure seated on the throne. Nehal Singh's eyes were now entirely
closed and seemed to sleep. Such a proceeding would have been excusable enough in the suffocating
heat, but the sight drove the old man into a fresh paroxysm of indignation.

"Sleepest thou, Nehal Singh?" he demanded, in a harsh, rasping voice. "Is it not sufficient
that thou hast failed thy destiny, but in the same hour thou must close thine eyes and dream,
like a child on whose shoulders rest no duty, no responsibility? Awake! I have more to say
to thee."

Nehal Singh looked up.

"I have not slept," he said gravely, "though, as to what concerns duty and responsibility,
I might well have done so, for I have neither the one nor the other. Speak, I pray thee. I listen."

Behar Asor remained silent a moment, biting his forefinger. There was something in the action
strongly reminiscent of a cunning, treacherous animal.

"Thou hast laughed at thine own power," he said at last, "though I have sworn to thee that,
as in my time, so today, the swords that sleep in a hundred thousand sheathes would awake at
thy word. They sleep because thou sleepest. Well--thou hast willed to sleep. I can not force
thee, and mine own hand has grown too feeble. But since thou hast chosen peace, remember this,
that it can last only with thy lifetime. So long thy people will be patient. Afterward--" He
shrugged his shoulders significantly.

"Thou hast more to tell me," Nehal Singh said.

"If thou wilt keep peace in thy land, see to it that thou hast children who will carry it on
for thee after thou hast passed into the shadow," Behar answered. "Hitherto thou hast led a
strange and lonely life, preparing as I willed for the destiny thou hast cast aside. Take now
unto thee a companion--a wife."

As though clumsy, untutored fingers which had until now tortured some fine instrument had suddenly,
perhaps by chance, perhaps by instinct, struck a pure harmonious chord, Nehal Singh rose to
his feet, his weary dreamer's face transfigured with a new light and new energy.

"A wife!" he said under his breath. "A woman! I know nothing of women. In all my life I have
seen but two--my mother and a nautch-girl--who cringed to me. I should not like my wife to
cringe to me. Are there not such as could be my companion, my comrade? Or are they all servile
slaves?"

Behar Asor laughed shortly and contemptuously.

"They are our inferiors," he said, "hence they can not be more than companions for our idle
hours. But you will have idle hours enough, and there would be many who would call themselves
blessed to share themselves with thee. A great alliance--"

Nehal Singh interrupted him with the old gesture of authority.

"Thou hast said enough, my father," he said. "I will think upon it. Until then--leave me my peace."

With a slow, meditative step he went back to the curtained doorway and, pulling aside the hangings,
went out on to the balcony. It was four o'clock, and already the heat of the day had broken.
Long rays of sunlight struck eastward across the garden and touched with their faded golden
fingers the topmost turrets of the temple. In the distance the shadows of the jungle had advanced
and, like the waves of a rising tide, seemed to swallow up, step by step, the brightness of
the prospect. Nehal Singh descended the winding stair that led to the first terrace. Thence
three paths stretched themselves before him. He chose the central one, and with bowed head
passed between the high, half-wild, half-cultivated borders of plants and shrubs. A faint evening
breeze breathed its intangible perfume against his cheek, and he looked up smiling.

"A woman!" he murmured dreamily. "A woman!"

CHAPTER IV

CIRCE

The dominion over which Rajah Nehal Singh exercised his partial authority was a tract of unfruitful
land extending over about two hundred square miles and sparely inhabited by a branch of the
Aryan race which through countless generations had kept itself curiously aloof from its neighbors.
The greater number were Hindus of the strictest type, and perhaps owing to their natural conservatism
they had succeeded in keeping their religion comparatively free from the abuses and distortions
which it was forced to undergo in other regions. Up to the year l8--the state had been to all
practical purposes independent. Its poverty and unusual integral cohesion made it at once a
dangerous enemy and an undesirable dependent, which it was tacitly agreed to let alone until
such time when action should become imperative. That time had come under the reign of Behar
Asor--then Behar Singh. This prince, who, his followers declared, could trace his descent from
Brahma himself, unexpectedly, after he had been living in hand-in-glove friendship with his
European neighbors, proclaimed a Holy War, massacred all foreigners within his reach, and for
eighteen long months succeeded, by means of a species of guerrilla warfare, in keeping the
invading armies at bay. Partly owing to the unflagging determination of the English troops,
partly owing also to the intense hatred with which he was regarded by all Mohammedans, he was
eventually overcome, though he himself was never captured. It was believed that he died while
fleeing through the vast jungles with which his land was overgrown, and this idea was strengthened
by the fact that, though a large reward for his capture was offered, nothing further had ever
been heard of him.

From that time the land came under the more or less direct control of the Government. As a
concession to the population, Behar Singh's one-year-old son was placed upon the throne under
a native regency, but English regiments were stationed at the chief towns, and a political
agent resided at the capital. Neither the regiments nor the political agent, however, found
any work for their hands to do. A calm, as unexpected as it was complete, seemed to descend
upon the whole country, and the officers who had taken up their posts with a loaded revolver
in each hand, figuratively speaking, began very quickly to relapse instead into pig-sticking,
polo and cards.

The climate was moderate, the vegetation beautiful if unprofitable, and the sport excellent.
Thus it came about that a danger spot on the map of the Indian Empire became a European paradise,
and that to be ordered to Marut was to become an object of envious congratulations. Not, as
Mr. Archibald Travers had with justice complained, that the reigning prince, as in other states,
took any part in the general gaiety or in any way enhanced the agreeableness of his capital.
As far as was known, no European eyes had ever lighted on him since his childhood. Under one
excuse and another he had been kept persistently in the background, his place being taken first
by the regent and then by succeeding ministers, until it was generally supposed that the young
Rajah was either afflicted with some loathsome disease or mentally deficient, probabilities
which the Government, with unpleasant recollections of Behar Singh's too great intelligence,
accepted with unusual readiness. There were no causes for suspicion. The Rajah never left the
precincts of his palace garden, a piece of land whose cultivation had cost untold sums, and
which, together with the Hindu temple, was supposed to stand as the eighth wonder of the world.
Fabulous stories were told of the beauty and rarity of the vegetation, and of the value of
the jewels which were supposed to decorate the temple and royal apartments. As there was no
opportunity of confirming or refuting the statements, they were allowed to grow unhindered.

It was in this small sphere that Nehal Singh spent his childhood, his youth and early manhood.
Of the outer world he had seen nothing, though he had read much, his education extending over
all European history and penetrating deep into that of his own country. Nevertheless, the picture
his mind had formed had little in common with the reality--it was too overshadowed by his own
character. As a blind man may be able, through hearsay, to describe his surroundings detail
by detail and yet at the bottom be possessed by an entirely false conception, so Nehal Singh,
to all appearances well instructed, was in reality as ignorant as a child. The heroes whose
figures peopled his imagination were too heroic, the villains too evil, and both heroes and
villains were either physically beautiful or hideous, according to their characters.

He had no comrade against whose practical experience he might have rubbed this distorted picture
into a more truthful likeness. His only companions had been his native instructors and the
priests--men separated from him by a gulf of years and a curious lack of sympathy which he
had in vain striven to overcome. Thus he had been intensely lonely, more lonely than he knew,
though some dawning realization crept over him on this particular evening as he passed through
the temple gates. For a moment he stood with his hands crossed over his breast, absorbed in
prayer to Brahma, the Creator, in whose presence he was about to stand. In such an hour, amidst
the absolute stillness, under the stupendous shadows of the walls, which had, unchanging, seen
generation after generation of worshipers drift from their altars into the deeper shades of
Patala, the young prince felt the wings of divine spirits brush close past him, bearing his
prayer on unseen hands to the very ear of the golden-faced Trinity who, from his earliest years,
had seemed to look down upon him with solemn kindness.

This evening, more perhaps than ever before, every fiber in him vibrated beneath the touch
of the holy charm, and the prayer which passed soundlessly over his lips came from a soul that
worshiped in fiery earnestness and truth. A minute passed as he stood there, then, removing
his shoes, he stepped over the threshold and walked forward between the gigantic granite columns
which supported what was left of the dome-shaped roof. There was no altar, no jewel, no figure
cut in the hard stone that was not known to him with all their mysterious significance. Here
had been spent all his leisure hours; here had been dreamed his wildest dreams; beneath this
column he had seen as in a vision how Vishnu took nine times human form and a tenth time came,
according to the Holy Writings, with a winged horse of spotless white, and crowned as conqueror.

To-day these things pressed down upon him with all the weight of a tremendous reality. With
beating heart he entered at last into the Holy of Holies and stood before the god's high altar,
visible only to those of purest caste. His head was once more bowed. He did not venture to
look up at the golden figure whose ruby eyes, he knew, stared straight through his soul into
every corner of the world and beyond into Eternity. His belief, pure, unsoiled from contact
with the world, was a power that had gone out into the darkness and conjured thence the spirits
that shrank back from the cold prayer of the half-believer. They stood before him now--these
wonderful spirits. He believed surely that, should he dare to raise his eyes, he would see
them, definite yet formless, arising glorious out of the cloud of golden reflection from Brahma's
threefold forehead.

Thus he prayed, not kneeling, since the god cared only for his soul:

"Oh, Lord Brahma, Creator, hear me! Thou who madest me knowest whither I came and whither I
go; but I, who am as the wind that bloweth as thou listeth, as a flower that springeth up in
the night and unseen fadeth in the midday heat, I know not thy purpose nor the end for which
I am. Lord Brahma, teach me, for my soul panteth after knowledge. Show me the path which I
must tread, for I am weary with dreams. Teach me to serve my people--be it hand in hand with
the Stranger and his gods, be it alone. Teach me to act, and that right soon; for my childhood
days are spent and my man's arm heavy with idleness. Send me forth--but not alone--not alone,
Lord Brahma, for I am heart-sick of loneliness. Give me my comrade, my comrade who shall be
more to me than--"

He stopped and, obeying an impulse stronger than himself, lifted his face to the idol. It had
vanished. In its place stood a woman.

At another and cooler moment, with a mind filled with other thoughts, with a heart untroubled
by new and all-powerful emotions, he would have known her, if only from hearsay, for what she
was. But with that passionate prayer upon his lips, she was for him the answer, a divine recognition
of his need and of his lately recognized loneliness.

Tall, slender, with a pale, transparent complexion, touched like a young rose with the faintest
color, dark, grave eyes and hair that seemed a part of the obscured god, whose pure lines,
though foreign, harmonized in every detail with the classic beauty of her surroundings, she
stood and watched him, as he watched her, in perfect silence.

"Lakshmi!" he murmured at last; and, as though the one word had broken a charm which held them
both paralyzed, she smiled, and the smile lit up the Madonna face and made it as human as it
had seemed divine.

"Forgive me," she began, speaking in English, "I am afraid I have disturbed you, but--" She
paused, apparently confused by the directness of his gaze. The faint pink upon her cheek deepened.

"Who are you?" he demanded in his own tongue.

Her look of non-comprehension steadied him, at least outwardly, though it did not check the
fierce, painful beating of his pulses. He repeated the question in pure though hesitating English.

"I am an Englishwoman," she answered at once, "and have lost my way. For hours--it seems hours,
at any rate--I have been wandering hither and thither, trying to find my party, with whom I
was enjoying an excursion. By some chance I came across this temple, and hoped to meet some
one who might help me. You see, I am a stranger in this part of the world. I--I hope I have
done no wrong?"

She looked at him pleadingly, but he ignored her question. It never occurred to him to doubt
her explanation, or wonder at the unlikeliness of the chance which should have led her through
the intricate paths to this hallowed spot.

"You are English?" he echoed. The fever in his blood was subsiding, but, like some great crisis,
it was leaving him changed. It had swept him out of the world of languorous, enchanted dreams
into a world of not less enchanted reality.

"I fear I am presumptuous," she began again; "but are you not the Rajah? If so, I am certain
you must be very, very angry. For the Rajah--so I have been told--does not love the English."

She smiled again, meeting his unwavering gaze with a frank good-humor which for him was more
wonderful even than her beauty. No woman--and for that matter, no man--had ever dared to look
him in the eyes with such a laughing, fearless challenge.

"Yes, I am the Rajah," he answered. Then, after a pause, he added with great simplicity, "You
are very beautiful."

She laughed outright, and the laugh, which rang like the peal of a silver bell through the
vaulted chamber, filled him with a sudden sense of her danger. She stood with her back turned
indifferently on the golden image, an Unbeliever whose shod feet were defiling the sacred precincts,
an object, then, for hatred and revenge--not for him, truly. In his eyes she was still an emissary
from Brahma, and thus in herself half sacred; but he knew well enough that such would not be
the opinion of the few fierce priests who worshiped in the temple.

"You are not safe here," he said, with an energy which was new to him. "Come!"

He led her hurriedly out of the sanctuary into the great entrance hall. There he slackened
speed and waited until she reached his side.

"For a foreigner it is not safe to enter the temple," he explained. "Had any one but myself
found you, I could not answer for the consequences."

"They would have harmed me?"

"It is possible."

"That would have been terrible!" she said, glancing at him with eyes that expressed rather
a daring courage than fear.

"Most terrible," he assented earnestly.

"Yet--you also, Your Highness, you have also the same reasons for anger. My intrusion, innocent
though it was, must have been equally offensive to you."

"No," he said. "That is quite different."

He offered no further explanation, and together they passed out of the two immense gopuras
into the evening sunshine.

"I will bring you to the gates which lead on to the highroad," he went on. "Thence one of my
servants will conduct you back to the town, where I trust you will find your friends."

"You are most good," she answered gratefully.

They walked side by side between the high walls of cypress and palm. The path was a narrow
one, and once his hand brushed lightly against hers. The touch sent a flood of fire through
his young veins. He drew back with a courtesy which surprised himself. He had never been taught
that courtesy toward a woman could ever be required of him. Of women he had heard little save
that they were inferior, in intellect and judgment no more than slaves, and his curiosity had
at once been satiated. He sought things above him--those beneath him excited no more than indifference.
But this woman was neither an inferior nor a slave. Her free, erect carriage, steadfast, fearless
eyes proclaimed the equal. So much his instinct taught him in those brief moments, and his
eager curiosity concerning her grew and deepened. Every now and again his gaze sought her face,
drinking in with an almost passionate thirst the fine detail of her profile, compared to which
his dreams were poor and lifeless. Once it chanced that she also glanced at him, and that they
looked at each other for less than a breathing space full in the eyes.

"I fear you are angry, Your Highness," she said earnestly. "I must have offended against your
laws even more than I know."

"Why do you think I am angry?" he asked.

"You have scarcely spoken."

"Forgive me! That is no sign of anger. I am still overcome with the strangeness of it all.
You are the first English person I have ever met."

She stood still, with an exclamation of surprise.

"Is that possible? I thought all Indian princes mixed with English people. Many, indeed, go
to England to be educated--"

"So I have heard," he broke in, with a faint haughtiness. "I am not one of them."

"Yet you speak the language so perfectly!" she said.

A gleam of naive pleasure shone out of his dark eyes.

"I am glad you think so. My--one of my ministers taught me."

They walked on again. Here and there she stopped to look at some curious plant--always a little
in advance of him--so that he had opportunity to study the hundred things about her which confirmed
his wondering, increasing admiration. Slight as she was, there was yet a gracefully controlled
strength in every movement. In his own mind, poor as it necessarily was in comparisons, he
compared her to a young doe he had once startled from its resting-place. There was the same
fragile beauty, the same grace, the same high-strung energy. In nothing was she like the women
painted for him by his father's hand--things for idle, sensuous pleasure, never for serious action.

Plunged in a happy confusion of thought, he had once more relapsed into silence, from which
she startled him with a question evidently connected with their previous conversation.

"And so you have lived all your life in this lovely garden?" she said, looking up at him with
a grave wonder in her eyes.

"All my life," he answered.

"You have never seen anything of the world?"

"Never." He felt the pity in her tone, and added, with a shamefacedness curiously in contrast
with his former hauteur: "But I have read much."

"That is not the same thing," she returned. "No book could make you understand how wonderful
and beautiful things are."

He looked at her, and for a second time their eyes met.

"You are right," he said. "Hitherto I have thought myself all-wise. I have studied hard, and
I believed there was nothing I did not know. Now I see that there are wonders in the world
of which I have never even dreamed."

Her glance wavered beneath the undisguised admiration in his eyes and voice. Then she asked gently:

"Now that you have seen, will you not leave your hermitage? Surely it is wrong to shut one's
heart against the world in which one lives. There is so much work to be done, so much to learn,
and you have been granted power and wealth, Your Highness. The call upon your help is greater
than upon others."

His brows knitted.

"Do you hate us so?" she asked.

"Hate you?" he repeated wonderingly. "Why should I hate you?"

"Yet, from your tone, I judged that you had kept seclusion because intercourse with my country-people
meant defilement," she said boldly.

A flush crept up under his dark skin.

"Those are things I can not explain," he said; "but they have nothing to do with hatred. I
have heard much of the English heroes. Their deeds of daring and self-sacrifice have filled
my heart with love and veneration. I know that they are the greatest and noblest people of
the earth. I love great and noble people. I do not hate them."

"I am glad," she said.

They had reached the gates which opened out on to the highroad, and as though by mutual consent
both came to a standstill.

"Your Highness has been most good to me," she went on. "I can find my way perfectly now. I
am only puzzled to know how I should ever have lost it so much as to have wandered into your
garden."

"Some sentry must have slept," he remarked grimly.

"But you will not punish any one?"

"Whoever it was, he was only the servant of destiny, like us all," he said. "No harm shall
come to him." He paused, and then added with a slight effort: "One of the sentries shall accompany
you."

"No, no," she answered energetically. "That is not necessary. I would rather go alone."

He pointed upward to the sky, whose blue was deepening into the violet shades of night.

"It will be dark before you reach your destination," he said. "Are you not afraid?"

She laughed merrily.

"Of what should I be afraid? There are no maneaters about here, as I understand. As for men,
I am prepared to encounter at least six of them. Look!" She drew from the bosom of her dress
a small revolver of exquisite workmanship, and held it out to him. "It has all six chambers
loaded," she added.

He took the weapon, pretending to examine it; but his pulses had recommenced their painful
beating, and he saw nothing but her face.

"Are all Englishwomen so brave and beautiful?"

This time she did not laugh at the simplicity of the question.

"Come and see," she answered boldly. He said nothing, and she went on: "At any rate, I must
go now. My people will be very anxious, and I have so much to tell them. They will envy me
the privilege I have enjoyed of seeing your wonderful gardens. I shall tell them how kind you
have been to a foolish wanderer."

"If the gardens please you, they are always open to you," he said.

She shook her head sadly.

"I am afraid it is not possible. You see, I could not come alone. Propriety will forgive me
this once, because it was an accident--a second time, and my reputation would be gone for ever."
She held out her hand frankly. "So it must be good-by for ever!"

An instant he hesitated, torn between a deep ingrained principle and desire. Then he took the
small hand in his own.

"It will not be good-by for ever," he said. "We shall meet again."

"I should be glad. We have been quite good friends, haven't we? But you see, you will be in
a garden into which I may not enter, and I in a world which for you is forbidden ground. I
am afraid there is no hope."

"Nevertheless, we shall meet again," he repeated.

"Why are you so certain?"

He smiled dreamily.

"Nothing in this world happens without purpose," he answered. "So much my books and eyes have
taught me. We do not drift aimlessly into each other's lives. We are borne on the breast of
a strong current which flows out of the river of Fate, and whether we meet for good or evil
is according to the will of God. But of one thing I am sure: it must be for good or evil."

For a moment she said nothing. Her face was turned away from him, and when at last she spoke,
her voice had lost something of its daring certainty.

"I hope, then, our meeting is for our good," she said.

"I feel that it is," he answered.

He led her past the bewildered, terrified sentry on to the grey, dusty highroad. It was the
first time that his feet had crossed the threshold.

"I shall watch you till you are out of sight," he said. "Good-by."

"Good-by--and thank you!"

According to his word, he stood where she had left him, his eyes fixed immovably, like those
of a bronze statue, on the slight, elastic figure, as it hurried toward the lights of the distant
Station. When at last the purple mist had swallowed her from his sight, he looked up toward
the heavens.

Just where the mist ended and the clear sky began, the evening star rose in its first splendor
and shone through the dry atmosphere, signaling to its fellows that night was come. One by
one others followed. As time passed, the moon in a cloud of silver lifted herself in stately
progress above the black outline of the jungle and touched with her first beams the filigree
minarets of the temple.

Nehal Singh bowed his head in prayer.

"Oh, Lord Brahma, I thank thee!"

A short-lived breath of evening air caught up the passionate murmur of his voice and mingled
it with the rustling of the Sacred Tree whose restless, shimmering, silver leaves hung above
his head. He understood their whisper as he listened. It was the accents of the god to whom
he prayed, and all the poetic mysticism of his nature responded to the call.

"Oh, Lord Brahma, Creator, I thank thee!" he repeated; then turned, and with head still bowed,
passed back through the high marble gates.

CHAPTER V

ARCHIBALD TRAVERS PLAYS BRIDGE

The ayah put the last touches to Beatrice Cary's golden hair, drew back a little to judge the
general effect, and then handed her mistress the handglass.

"Is that well so, missy?" she asked. "Missy look wonderful to-night--wonderful!"

Beatrice examined herself carefully and critically, without any show of impatience. Only a
close observer would have noticed that her eyes had the strained, concentrated look of a person
whose thoughts are centered elsewhere than on the immediate subject.

"Yes, that will do," she assented, after a moment. "You have done extra well to-night. You can go."

"Not help missy with dress?"

"No, you can go. I shall only want you again when I come back."

The ayah fidgeted with the garments that lay scattered about the room, but an imperative gesture
hastened her exit, and she slipped silently from the room, drawing the curtains after her.

Beatrice watched her departure in the glass, and then, turning in her chair, looked at the
languid, exhausted figure upon the couch.

"Now, if you have anything to say, mother, say it," she said. "We are quite alone."

"I have a great deal to say," Mrs. Cary began, in a tone of extreme injury, "and first of all,
I must ask you not to interrupt me in the way you did just now before the--the what-do-you-call-it?--the
ayah. I can not and will not stand being corrected before my own servants."

"I did not correct you," Beatrice returned coldly. "I stopped you from making disclosures to
ears which know enough English to understand more than is good for either of us, and whose
discretion is on a par with that of our late friend, Mary Jane. It seems impossible to make
you realize that English is not a dead language."

"You are very rude to me!" Mrs. Cary protested, in high, quavering tones that threatened tears.
"Very rude! Beatrice, you ought to be ashamed--"

"I am not rude. I am only telling you the simple truth."

"Well, then, you are not respectful."

"Respectful!" The reiteration was accompanied with a laugh which brought into use all the harsh,
unpleasing notes in the girl's voice. She turned away from her mother, and with one white elbow
resting on the dressing-table, began to play idly with the silver ornaments. "No, I suppose
I am not respectful," she went on calmly. "I think we are too intimate for that, mother. We
know each other too well, and have spoken about things too plainly. People, I imagine, only
retain the respect of their fellow-creatures so long as they keep themselves and their projects
a haloed mystery. That isn't our case. There are no haloes or mysteries between us, are there?"

"I'm sure I don't know what you mean," Mrs. Cary declared plaintively. "There are moments,
Beatrice, when I think you talk nonsense."

"I am sure you do!" An ironical smile played an instant round the small mouth, then she went
on calmly: "Let us put our personal grievances against each other aside, mother. Revenons a
nos moutons. You were saying, when I interrupted you, that you were afraid of Mr. Travers. Why?"

"Why! You know as well as I do. I recognized him at once, and the sight of his face nearly
gave me a heart stroke. Of course you remember him. He gave evidence against your poor, dear
father when--"

Beatrice Cary held up her hand.

"That is one of the advantages of having discarded the mystery and halo," she said. "We do
not need to go into any details concerning ourselves or the past. I know quite well to what
you refer. To be quite honest, I did recognize him, only I did not let him see that I did."

"And then you ask why I am afraid!"

"I fail to see what harm he can do us."

"He can tell the truth."

Beatrice Cary rose and began to slip into the white silk dress which hung across the back of
her chair.

"The truth!" she said meditatively. "That is something, mother, of which, I fear, you and I
will never rid ourselves. It has chased us out of England and out of all possible parts of
Europe; and, large though India is, it seems already to have tracked us down. It has a good
nose for fugitives, apparently."

Mrs. Cary sat up, mopping her florid face free from tears of irritability.

"You will drive me mad one of these days!" she cried. "You laugh at everything. You laugh even
at this, though it concerns our whole future here--"

"Excuse me for interrupting you again. I take the matter very much to heart--so much so that
there are moments when I am thoroughly weary of it, and feel inclined to write on a large placard:
'Here standeth Beatrice McConnel, alias Cary, daughter of the--'"

"Be silent!" broke in the elder woman furiously. "Do you really want the whole Station to be
taken into our confidence?"

"I am sorry!" with half-sincere, half-mocking contrition. "I am as bad as you are. But, as
I say, there are times when I should like to shriek the truth in the world's face, and see
what it would do. I don't think anything could be worse than our present life."

"If you did anything of the sort, I should take poison," Mrs. Cary declared.

"No, you wouldn't. We should move on to another continent, and try our luck there, that's all.
It's the very futility of truth-telling which prevents me from experimenting in that direction.
Perhaps, as you suggest, Mr. Travers will take the task from my shoulders."

Mrs. Cary rose to her feet and came ponderously over to her daughter's side. Her voice, when
she spoke, was troubled with genuine emotion.

"Beatrice," she said, "I don't ask respect of you--I don't suppose it would be any sort of
good if I did. You haven't any respect in you. But at any rate have some consideration for
me. You needn't make my life worse than it is. It's no use your saying to me, 'Give up the
money, and hide your head.' I can't. I never could hide my head, and at the bottom I don't
believe you could either. It's the way we are made. Ever since I was a little child, and played
about in my father's shop, I wanted people to bow down to me and respect me. I meant that one
day they should. When I married they did--for a time at least. When the crash came, and--and
all the shame, I just ran away from it. I couldn't have done anything else. Ever since then
I have been trying to build things up elsewhere, and I had to have money for it. You can't
blame me, Beatrice. You aren't any better. You always want to be first in your singing and
your painting, you always want the best of what's going. You always want to be admired and
successful in everything you do. You take after me in that." A note of curious pride crept
into her voice. "So it's just like this, Beatrice--I can't live without position. I may not
take poison, but I shall die all the same if I can't play a part in the world. All I ask is
that you help me all you can. It's not much. I've been a pretty decent mother to you. You can't
say that there was ever a time when I grudged you a pretty frock or a dance--" She stopped
in her long speech, yielding to Beatrice's irrepressible gesture of impatience.

"You needn't have gone into so much explanation," the girl said, fastening a small diamond
pendant round her white neck. "I know you and I know myself. As to my gratitude, I am fully
aware of what I owe you, and am ready to pay. What do you want me to do?"

"Don't go against me."

"I haven't done so yet. I don't mean to. As far as I can recollect, I've pulled us both out
of as many scrapes as you have landed us into," Beatrice replied.

"I know. That's why I want you to do your best now."

"To do what?"

"To keep Marut tolerable for us."

"I can't prevent Mr. Travers gossiping if he wants to."

A smile flitted over Mrs. Cary's fat face, robbing it of its good-nature and leaving it merely
vulgarly cunning.

"You could if you wanted to."

"How?"

"Oh, you know! You have a way with men. You could shut his mouth."

Beatrice laughed outright.

"There are moments when you betray your origin in the most painful way, mother," she said cruelly.
"A remark like that in Mrs. Carmichael's hearing, and we should find Marut too hot for us without
any assistance from Mr. Travers."

"I'm sorry," Mrs. Cary apologized humbly. "It slipped out. What I meant was, that I am sure
you could manage him. And you know you could, Beatrice."

Beatrice looked at her reflection in the glass. There was little feminine vanity in the glance--rather
a cool judging and appraising, untempered with any personal prejudice.

"I suppose I could," she admitted.

"Won't you?"

"Would it make you very happy?"

"It would be my first moment's real peace since I saw Mr. Travers at the garden-party."

"Well, I'll do my best."

"You promise?"

"Yes, I'll promise if you want me to."

Mrs. Cary drew a deep sigh of relief.

"That's one thing about you, you keep your promises, Beatrice," she said.

"It is rather curious, under the circumstances, isn't it?" the younger woman returned, submitting
to the mother's grateful embrace with an indifference which seemed to indicate more than an
indifference--rather a stoic, smothered antipathy. When it was over, and Mrs. Cary had once
more ensconced herself on the lounge, Beatrice shook her shoulders as though thrusting something
intensely disagreeable away from her.

"In any case, it may be too late," she said, putting the finishing touches to her toilet. "If
Mr. Travers meant to tell, he has probably done so already. I shall be able to judge by Mrs.
Carmichael's hand-shake to-night."

"We must hope for the best," returned Mrs. Cary, with pious resignation.

The two women relapsed into silence. Beatrice hovered lightly about the room, collecting her
fan, handkerchief and gloves, every now and again casting the same curious, unloving glance
at herself in the long mirror. Presently she went to the window and pulled aside the muslin
curtain.

"Some one is driving up the avenue," she said. "It's a dog-cart. I wonder who it is."

"A dog-cart!" Mrs. Cary repeated thoughtfully. "Now, who has a dog-cart in Marut? Not many
people, I fancy." A dull flush mounted her coarse cheeks. "Why," she exclaimed, "I believe
Mr. Travers has!"

Beatrice dropped the curtain back into its place.

"That would be a coincidence, wouldn't it?" she remarked, with a faint irony from which her
tone had never been wholly free.

A minute later the ayah entered the room.

"Travers Sahib is here," she announced. "He asks if missy drive with him to the Colonel Sahib
in his cart. Travers Sahib waiting."

Beatrice and her mother exchanged glances.

"Very well," Beatrice then said quietly. "Tell Travers Sahib I shall be delighted. Paul need
not bring round the carriage."

The ayah retired, and with an undisturbed calm Beatrice proceeded to slip into her evening cloak.

"At any rate, he hasn't spoken yet," she said. "Fate seems to mean well with you, mother."

"It all depends on you, Beatrice," the other returned impressively.

"Do you think so? Well, I have half-an-hour's drive before me--tete-a-tete. I dare say I shall
manage. Good night!" She patted her mother lightly on the hand as she passed her on the way
to the door.

"Good-by, my dear. Do your best, won't you?"

"Haven't I been brought up to do my best?" Beatrice answered with a laugh.

She hurried on to the verandah which faced out on the drive, the ayah accompanying her with
numerous wraps and shawls. Archibald Travers, who had remained seated, greeted her with a cheerful
wave of the whip.

"Please excuse my getting down, Miss Cary," he said. "My horse is in a state of mind which
does not allow for politeness. Can you trust yourself to his tender care?"

"I am not in the least nervous," she answered, scrambling up to his side, "and a drive through
this lovely air is worth a few risks. I was dreading the half-hour alone in our stuffy brougham."

"I'm glad I came, then," he said. "I heard that Mrs. Cary was ill and could not go, but I was
not sure whether you would care for it. There, are you tucked in all right? Can we start?"

"Yes, by all means."

He cracked his whip, and immediately the impatient chestnut sprang forward into the darkness.
They swayed dangerously through the compound gates on to the broad, straight highroad.

Beatrice laughed with excitement.

"That was splendid!" she exclaimed, pulling her cloak closer round her. "How well you drive!"

"You seem to enjoy danger," he said, with an amused smile.

"Yes, I enjoy it," she answered, more gravely. "It is the only flavoring which I have hitherto
discovered in life. The rest is rather insipid, don't you think?"

"You talk like a man," he said.

"I have been brought up to be independent and fight for myself," she returned. "That sort of
thing does away with the principal differences between the sexes."

As she spoke they dashed suddenly into an avenue of high trees through whose branches the moonlight
played fantastic, uncanny shadows on the white road. Travers' horse shied violently, and for
some minutes his work was cut out for him in pacifying the excited animal. When they were once
more bowling smoothly over the open plain, he glanced down at the girl beside him.

She was smiling to herself.

"You have nerve!" he remarked admiringly.

"I have lots more when it is wanted," she answered, looking up at him. The light struck full
on their faces, and they could read each other's expressions as clearly as if it had been midday.

"How much farther is it at the rate we are going?" she asked.

"Another twenty minutes."

"Another twenty minutes!" she repeated thoughtfully. "That is quite a long time, isn't it?"

He flicked his whip across the horse's ears.

"Yes, and I'm glad," he said. "Otherwise, I shouldn't have seen much of you. I happen to know
that I am taking in Miss Caruthers to dinner, and dinner takes up most of the evening at these
functions."

"You are taking in Lois Caruthers!" she said, laughing. "I know of some one who will be annoyed."

"Stafford, you mean?"

"And Lois herself."

He joined in her amusement.

"Yes, I suppose so."

"You have a good-natured hostess. I dare say the arrangement could be altered if you wished it."

"But I don't. They happen to be my arrangements, you see."

"Oh!" she ejaculated, somewhat taken back.

"On my left there will be Mrs. James, who, as you perhaps know, is stone deaf," he went on
calmly. "On Miss Caruthers' right will be Mr. James, who from long custom never opens his mouth
except to put something into it. Stafford will be right at the other end of the table."

"You are malicious," she said.

"Not a bit. I only go hard for what I want, that's all." He chuckled to himself and then went
on: "I've confided to you my subtle underground plans--why, goodness knows. I'm not usually
of a confiding nature. But really, Miss Cary, I feel as though I had known you all my life."

"We have already plotted together," she said. "Possibly that forms some sort of link between us."

He glanced down at her, and this time, as she did not return his gaze, he was free to study
her calm, undisturbed profile.

"By Jove!" he exclaimed, half under his breath, "I don't blame the young fool for being taken in."

Her brows contracted sharply.

"Thank you. I suppose that is a compliment."

"It is meant for one. By the way, are you really sure of your success?"

"Perfectly sure."

"That's a good thing. We shall have the laugh over old Stafford and his grandmother's ideas
if it comes off. All I fear is that the youth's impressionable mind may lose its impressions
as quickly as it receives them."

"I don't think so. He did not seem that sort."

"Besides," added Travers, with a sudden drawl, "your face is not one that a man forgets easily,
Miss Cary."

She stirred very slightly in her seat. It was the instinctive movement of a woman bracing herself
secretly for a coming shock.

"Really?"

"Yes, really. That was what I meant to tell you the other day, but there was no fitting opportunity.
I recognized you at once."

"And I you," she returned.

He whistled.

"So we recognized each other and didn't recognize each other. Rather a queer thing, eh?"

Again there was that scarcely noticeable stiffening of her whole body.

"I see nothing queer about it. We were both taken aback, and after the first shock we realized
that to acknowledge a previous meeting was not to either of our advantages. You were ashamed;
and I--well, you can guess my reasons."

"By Jove! You know, you really are plucky!" he burst out, with genuine admiration.

"Thank you. You have intimated that to me already, and, as a matter of fact, there is no question
of pluck. I'm taking the bull by the horns because I must. Mr. Travers, I can't live in the
same place with you and not know if you are going to explode the mine under our feet or not.
I may have nerve, but I haven't got nerve enough for that."

"I see. You want to know whether I am going to gossip or hold my tongue. Is that it?"

"Yes, that's it."

"Suppose I gossip?"

"I see no reason why you should be our enemy, so I don't mind admitting to you that it would
spoil our plans."

"What may they be?"

"Firstly, to get clear of everything that has happened. We've tried to do that in different
places all over Europe, without success. Something or somebody has always cropped up and driven
us away. It was just as though every one least concerned in the matter had made up their minds
to track us down. At last mother thought of India, and of Marut in particular. My father held
a small post somewhere about here before we left for England, and we make out that it is tender
associations and all that sort of thing. Of course, we might be found out any day, but perhaps
people are not so curious out here, and it gives us a rest."

"Might I ask why you take all this trouble?"

"I was going to tell you. Because my mother wants what she calls position--she wants to mix
with the best. We couldn't do that in England, for the reasons I have given you. As for me--I
fulfil my destiny. I am seeking a suitable husband."

He drew in his breath in something that was not unlike a gasp.

"My dear Miss Cary, do you know what the world--particularly the woman world--would call you?"

"Does call me, you mean? Of course. An adventuress."

"To be quite frank, you've hit it. But I don't. I call you a jolly extraordinary and clever woman."

"Please don't pay me compliments," she said coldly. "My cleverness--if I have any--is not more
than that of any hunted animal who seeks cover where best he can. As to my being extraordinary,
I do not see that you have any reason to call me so. You might as well say that it is extraordinary
when a weed springs up where a weed has been sown--"

"Or a flower," he interposed suavely.

She sank back in her seat, saying nothing. Her silence was a weary sort of protest.

Travers pulled out his watch with his free hand.

"We have only five minutes more," he said. "We are splendidly up to time. I tell you what,
Miss Cary--you can eat Colonel Carmichael's dinner in peace." She looked quickly at him. "I
mean that I shall hold my tongue. I don't know that I ever intended doing anything else. I
am not responsible to society, and in any case, no direct blame for the past can attach itself
to you. As it is, after your confidence, I give you my word that I'll do my best to see you
through here. You deserve it, and I have always had a sneaking sympathy for the hunted fox
and the much-abused weed. You can be quite easy in your mind."

"Thank you," she said without much warmth.

"I have only one condition--" he went on, and then hesitated.

"I was waiting for that," she said.

He laughed good-naturedly.

"You know me very well already."

"I know men," she retorted.

"Well, then, I have a condition. Please don't look upon me as a sort of blackmailer. If you
don't choose to agree to the condition, you needn't. I shan't on that account go round gossiping
about your affairs. At the same time, I expect you would rather drive a fair and square bargain
with me than be in any way in my debt."

"You are quite right," she said quickly.

"My condition is merely this: I want you, if the time and opportunity ever present themselves,
to lend me a hand with my plans. I confess privately to you I have one or two irons in the
fire up at Marut, and that it is pretty hard work single-handed. You are a clever woman, say
what you like, and your help would be invaluable."

"In what way?"

"I will put it as short as possible. You know, Miss Cary, I am not a rich man, but I have got
some big ideas and one at least of them requires wealth to be carried out. I have every reason
to believe that considerable mineral treasure lies buried under the native Bazaar in Marut,
but I can do nothing unless some one comes to my assistance both with authority and money.
The Rajah is the very man, if only I can get him interested in my project. Will you help me?"

"As I have gone so far I might as well go on," she assented indifferently.

"Thanks. Then there is something else--I want to marry Lois Caruthers."

Beatrice started and looked up at him as though she thought he might be joking. His face had
indeed undergone a change, but there was something stern, resolute, almost brutal in the hard-set
profile.

"Indeed? Will that not be more difficult? There is Stafford in the way, and Stafford--"

"Stafford must be cleared out of the way," he interrupted, with a cool decision which his expression
partly belied. "I believe she is fond of him and he of her in a Platonic sort of fashion which
might lead to marriage and might not. He is not the danger. There is a fellow, Nicholson, though--"

He stopped short and seemed for an instant to be plunged in his own thoughts.

"Who is this Nicholson?" she asked curiously. "I have heard his name constantly since I have
been here. People talk of him as though he were a demigod. Why are you afraid of him?"

"Just because of his godlike qualities," Travers explained, with a laugh. "In earlier ages,
no doubt, he would have been a god and among the natives he is one. In reality, he is an ordinary
mortal blessed with an extraordinary influence. I believe he is a captain in some native regiment
on the frontiers and has done grand work there. I heard today that he is coming down to Marut
on leave."

"Oh--?"

"He was Lois' old playfellow," Travers added pointedly.

"And so you are afraid of him?"

"All women adore heroes of that type," he remarked without mockery or bitterness, "and when
Nicholson appears I have a fair idea that Stafford and I will have to be content with the back
seats in Lois' affections. You see, they were great friends, and moreover the Carmichaels have
their matrimonial eye on him. So it's now or never as far as I am concerned."

"And Stafford--?"

He looked down at her with a jolly laugh.

"He must find consolation elsewhere. I thought he would do for you, Miss Cary."

"Thanks!"

"Don't be ungrateful. Rich, good position, good family, worthy character, a trifle slow, not
to say stupid--what more do you want?"

"You talk as though--"

"--As though he were being given away with a pound of tea? Well, so he is to all intents and
purposes. One can do anything with an honest, pig-headed man like that if only one takes him
the right way. He would suit you clear down to the ground, and if you will help me I will help
you. Is that a bargain?"

They were now in sight of their destination, and he pulled his horse into a walk.

"Well, what do you say, Miss Cary?"

He tried to look into her face, but it was turned resolutely away, and all he could see was
a grave profile which might have belonged to a much older woman.

"Well?" he repeated.

They were entering the drive which led up to the brightly lighted bungalow before she answered.

"It's a bargain then," she said. "I promise."

He pressed her hand with his left.

"That's all right," he said cheerily. "You won't find yourself overburdened. The case is just
this: we're partners, you and I, with some good cards between us. Just at present it's my call,
and your hand goes down. Do you understand?"

"Pretty well," she answered.

They pulled up at the open doorway, and flinging the reins to the waiting syce, Travers sprang
to the ground.

"By the way, I believe you go in to dinner with Stafford," he remarked casually as he helped
her to alight. "I hope you will get on well together."

CHAPTER VI

BREAKING THE BARRIER

The Colonel's dinner-party was Beatrice's first great triumph in the face of her enemies. They
were all there and all armed to the teeth with spite and envy. There was, for instance, Mrs.
Berry with her marriageable if somewhat plain daughter, and many more women besides to whom
the beautiful girl was of necessity an unforgivable opponent. The more the men laughed at her
quick and occasionally rather pointed observations, the more an obvious admiration shone out
of their criticisms, the more determined the hatred became. Among themselves they had already
fulfilled Travers' prophecy and had christened her "the Adventuress" for no other reason than
that she was a woman with the same ambitions as themselves, but better accoutred for success.
Truly, she had made no bid for their favor, choosing to stand alone and without their support;
but even had she done so it would have been useless. She wore an enemy's color in her face,
and keen, pitiless eyes had already probed into the innermost depths of her plans and found
them dangerous.

In the middle of the dinner the Colonel broke the news that the whole of the English community
had been invited by the Rajah to a reception in the palace grounds. He made the announcement
with evident reluctance, and Beatrice was conscious that Stafford, who sat beside her, stiffened
and frowned. The sense of opposition and disapproval on the part of the man whom she had set
out to conquer put her on her metal, and with the verve and sang-froid of a woman too sure
of her own power to know fear, she related her adventure in the temple. Her hearers listened,
according to their sex, with amusement, curiosity and pious horror. Some were unreservedly
delighted, others--such as the Colonel and Stafford--struggled between a certain admiration
for her and a decided disapproval of her action and its results. Yet Stafford at least was
a soldier before he was a conventionalist, and her bold, well-played comedy in the temple of
Vishnu, told simply, but with fire and energy, could not fail to stir to flame the embers of
his own daring. From that time he ceased to rivet his attention to the other end of the table,
where Lois was sitting, and Beatrice was conscious that she had won the first move in the great
game which she had set herself to play. The next day the whole Station was made aware of the
startling change in the Rajah's attitude and the means by which it had been brought about,
but no one, not even those who were disposed to judge the matter in its most serious light,
guessed what passed within the palace previous to the sending out of the now famous invitation.
For the greater part of the English community the whole thing was rather a bad joke, with the
Rajah for its victim. That a pretty woman should have unbarred the gates which no other force,
diplomacy or cunning had been able to stir was a matter for light, somewhat contemptuous laughter.
Rajah Nehal Singh was nicknamed the Impressionable Swain. He and Beatrice Cary were linked
together either in good-natured chaff or malicious earnest, and curiosity, thanks to the dullness
of the season, strained itself in expectation.

Thus, beyond the marble gates the world laughed, and inside Life and Death had faced each other
and for a moment hung in the balance.

It was toward the cool of the evening. Behar Asor and the prince paced slowly backward and
forward in the chief entrance hall of the palace, plunged in a conversation which was to mark
a final stage in their relationship toward each other. Both knew it, and on both faces was
written the same determination--a determination curiously tempered and moulded by the character
of the man himself. On Behar Asor's furrowed, withered face it was resolve, armed with treachery
and all the hundred and one weapons of oriental cunning. Nehal Singh's head was lifted in calm,
unshakable confidence. He had no need of weapons. He had seen his destiny, and the obstacle
which would be thrown in his path would, with equal certainty, be thrown out of it. He felt
himself extraordinarily strong.

His very surroundings seemed to fortify him with their splendor. Other parts of the palace
bore the grievous traces of a past devastating race-hatred; crumbling pillars, images whose
jeweled eyes had been made dark and lifeless by robber hands; broken pavements, defaced carvings--all
these pointed to a period in human life which was gone for ever, a period of mad fanaticism
and passionate clinging to the Old in defiance of the New. Here the New was triumphant. Hands
still living had raised the mighty golden dome; the fountain whose waters bubbled up from the
Sacred Tank within the temple was his own creation. The whole place became a sort of outward
and visible sign of the New Life, New Era, which was opening out before him, and the old man
at his side was nothing more than a relic, a piece of clinging wreckage. Yesterday he had been
a wise man whose judgment and guidance was a thing to be considered.

But between Yesterday and Today there is occasionally a long night in which much may happen.
A life may go out, a life may come in; a devil may become a saint, or a saint a devil; a man
may swing from one pole of opinion to another, and this last is perhaps the easiest of all.
For it does not require much to change a man's standpoint. A very little thing will make him
turn on his heel and look at a piece of the landscape which he has hitherto chosen to ignore
or despise, and probably acknowledge that it is finer than his hitherto obstinately retained
outlook. A very little thing--like Columbus' egg--if one only knew just what it was! The little
thing in Nehal Singh's life had been a woman's face. It shone between him and his old gods;
it smiled at him from amidst the shadows of his imagination, beckoning him unceasingly to follow.
And he was following--with the reckless speed of a man who had been kept inactive too long
at the starting point of life.

"I am weary of all that has hitherto been," he told Behar Asor. "My palace has become a prison
from which I must free myself. The very air I breathe is heavy with sleep and dreams. It suffocates
me. I must have life--here and without."

"I understand thee too well," came the answer from compressed lips. "The curse is on thee.
Thou wilt go among my enemies, and it is I, with my mistaken wisdom, who have opened thy path
to them. It was I who taught thee their tongue, their knowledge, their law, that when the time
came thou shouldst stand before them more than their equal. This is my punishment."

"It is no punishment. It is the will of God."

"The will of God!" The old man threw up his hands with a wild laugh that echoed among the pillars.
"It is the will of the devil, who has been my curse and shall be thine! Ay, ay, look not at
me! It is true. Thinkest thou that I have brought thee up in solitude without cause? Thinkest
thou that I have hidden thee like a miser his treasure, in the dark, unseen places, for a whim?
Son, I have suffered as I pray thou mayst not have to suffer, and I have within my heart a
serpent of hatred whose sting I would thou couldst feel." He paused, biting his lip as though
the pain he described was actual and physical. "Go not among the Unbelievers!" he continued
vigorously. "Let not their shadow defile thee! For their breath is poison, and in their eyes
is a deadly flame--or if thou goest, let it be with steeled breast and in thy right hand a
sword of vengeance!"

"I can not," Nehal Singh answered impatiently. "Nor do I believe what thou sayest. This people
is surely brave and good. I know, for I have read--"

"Read!" the old man interrupted, with another burst of stormy laughter. "What is it to read?
To see with the eyes and feel with the body--that alone can bring true wisdom. And I have seen
and felt! Callest thou a people 'good' who drink our hospitality and spit upon us--who hail
us with their unclean right hand and steal our honor with their left?"

Nehal Singh stopped short.

"What meanest thou?" he demanded.

"I have a meaning!" was the stern answer. "I will tell thee now what I have never told thee
before--I will tell thee of a young man who, like thyself, was fearless, impetuous, a lover
of the new and strange, who went out into the world, and welcomed the White People as a deliverer
and friend. I will tell thee how he flung down caste and prejudice to welcome them, drank in
their Thought and Culture, trembled on the brink of their Religion. Already the path had been
broken for him. His mother's sister had married out of her race--an Englishman--I know not
how it came about--and their child followed in her steps. I will tell thee how the young man
came to know this cousin and her husband, also an Unbeliever. How often these two became his
guests I will not tell thee. He took pleasure in their presence, partly for his mother's sake,
partly because the white race had become dear to him. They brought others with them, and among
them an English officer. Hear now further.

"This young man had one wife, following the English custom--one wife more beautiful than her
sisters, whom he loved as a man loves but once in life. In his madness, in spite of warnings
of his priests, he gave her the freedom almost of an English-woman. Wheresoever he went she
followed him; with her at his right hand he received his English guests; it was she who sang
to them--" He ground his teeth in a sudden outburst of rage. "Mad, mad was I! Mad to trust
a woman, and to trust the stranger! Son, the night came when my wife sang no more to me, and
the stranger's shadow ceased to darken my threshold. Three years I sought them--three years;
then one night she came back to me. He had cast her from him. She lay dead at my feet." His
voice shook. "In vain I sought justice. There is no justice for such things among the White
People--not for themselves and not for us. I drew my sword and in hatred and scorn as deep
as my love and reverence had been high, I slew my way to the false devil who had betrayed me.
Him I slew--and his pale wife I--"

"Who was this man?" Nehal Singh asked heavily.

"I know not. His name has passed from me. But the hate remains. For with that act of treachery
he drew back the veil from my blind eyes, and I saw that they were all as he--bad, cruel, hypocrites--"

"Not all--not all!" Nehal Singh interrupted. He stopped by the splashing fountain and gazed
dreamily into the clear waters. His own face he saw there--and another which was neither bad,
cruel, nor hypocritical, but wholly beautiful. "Not all," he repeated. "You judge by one man.
There are others, and it is those I will see and know, and--"

"I would rather see thee dead at my feet!"

"My father, I will judge them as I find them,"

Nehal Singh went on imperturbably. "If they be good and noble, I will serve and love them.
If they be bad, as thou sayest--then thou shalt live to see me do thy will."

He heard a shrill cry, and his eyes, still fixed on the water, saw a hand that swept upward,
the flash of steel falling swiftly through the sunshine. He swung round and tore the dagger
from the nerveless hand.

"Thou dost wrong, my father," he said, with unshaken calm. "To learn treachery from treachery
is a poor lesson. And thou canst not stay me. What I will do I will do. Do not cross me again."

The old man, who had shrunk back, gasping and staring, against the marble basin, pulled himself
painfully upright.

"Ay, I did wrong," he said. "With my old hands I tried to forestall the sword of Fate. For,
mark me, the hour will come when thou wilt curse thyself that thou didst stay my knife!"

He tottered slowly away, vanishing like a curious twisted shadow amidst the deeper shadows
of the columns.

Nehal Singh watched him till he was out of sight, and then, snapping the dagger across his
knee, flung the pieces into the water. They lay there, at the bottom of the marble basin, sparkling
and twinkling in the sunshine. When he looked in, trying to conjure up once more the beautiful
face, it was always the dagger he saw. It was always the dagger he saw when the memory of that
short, violent scene came back to him--and it came back often, springing up out of his subconscious
self like an evil, slinking shade that could never be wholly brought to rest. Yet he went on
resolutely. One barrier had given way--one more remained, and he flung himself against it with
a reckless determination which would have overcome any resistance. But there was none. The
old priest who had been his guide and teacher welcomed him as he had always done, seated cross-legged
at the edge of the Sacred Tank, motionless, rigid, like some handsome bronze statue of Buddha,
whose eyes alone spoke of a fierce flowing life within. He bowed his head once in return to
Nehal's greeting, but as he began to speak he interrupted him, and in a low, chanting voice
uttered the last words he was ever heard to address to any living creature:

"Speak not to me, Son of the Night and Day, for the Spirit of the Holy Yog is on me, and his
tongue speaketh through my lips. Behold, mine eyes see with his into the wells of the future--my
heart stands still for fear of the things that are to be. I see a Holy Temple and hear the
ring of Accursed Footsteps. I see a young man at daybreak, beautiful, strong and upright, and
I see him stand beneath the high sun like a blade of withered grass. I see him go forth in
the morning with laughter on his lips, and at nightfall his eyes run blood. A voice calleth
him from the thicket, and wheresoever the voice calleth him he goeth. He standeth on the banks
of Holy Ganges, and behold! the waters burst from their course and pour westward to the ocean.
Behold, then shall he draw his sword against his people, and from that hour he shall serve
them and become theirs. Then shall the doors of the temple be closed for ever, and the lips
of Vishnu silent. Go forth, son of the Evening and Morning Star! That which is to be shall
be till the stream of the Future ceaseth to flow from the mouth of Heaven!"

Nehal Singh listened to this strange, disjointed prophecy in perfect silence, his eyes following
the fierce stare of the old Brahman into the oily waters of the Sacred Pool. Amidst the hundred
reflections from the temple he seemed to see each separate picture as the monotonous voice
called it up before his mind, and always it was his own face which shimmered among the shadowy
minarets, and always it was a familiar voice calling him through the ages which whispered to
him from the trembling leaves of the Bo-Tree as it hung its branches down to the water's edge.

"Tell me more, for thy words have drawn the veil closer about the future!"

His pleading received no response. The priest remained motionless, passive, indifferent, seemingly
plunged in an ecstatic contemplation; and from that moment his lips were closed, and he passed
his once loved pupil with eyes that seemed fixed far ahead on a world visible only to himself.
Neither in his words or manner had there been any anger or reproach, but a perfect resignation
which walled him off from every human emotion, and Nehal Singh went his way, conscious that
the world lay before him and that he was free. The great dividing wall had turned to air, and
he had passed through, satisfied but not a little troubled, as a man is who finds that he has
struck at shadows.

Afterward he told himself that the walls had always been shadows, the links that bound him
always mere ghostly hindrances, part of the vague dreams that had filled his life and bound
his horizon. Now that was all over. The more perfect reality lay before him and was his. The
dim figures of his childhood's imagination gave place to definite forms. And each bore the
same face, each face the same grave goodness--that of the woman destined for him by Heaven.

CHAPTER VII

THE SECOND GENERATION

Thus it came to pass that after more than a quarter of a century the gates of the palace were
thrown open, and strange feet crossed the threshold in apparent peace and friendship.

A crowd of memories flooded Colonel Carmichael's mind as he followed the guide along the narrow
paths. There was a difference between his last entry and this--a difference and an analogy
whose bizarre completeness came home to him more vividly with every moment. Then, too, he had
been led, but by a dark figure whose flaming torch had sprung through the darkness like an
unearthly spirit of destruction. Then, too, he had followed--not, as now, old and saddened--but
impetuously, and behind him had raced no crowd of laughing pleasure-seekers, but men whose
bloody swords were clasped in hands greedy for the long-deferred vengeance. He remembered clearly
what they had felt. For a year they had been held at bay by a skill and cunning which outmatched
their most heroic efforts, and now, at last, the hour of victory was theirs. He remembered
how the thirst for revenge had died down as they stormed the marble steps. No living being
barred their course. Stillness greeted them as they poured into the mighty hall, and a chilly
awe sank down upon their red-hot rage as they searched an emptiness which seemed to defy them.
It was the Colonel himself, then only a young captain, who had heard the piteous wailing cry
issuing from a side apartment. He had rushed in, and there a sight greeted him which engraved
itself on his memory for ever. The place was almost in darkness, save that at the far end two
torches had been lit on either side of what seemed to be a throne--a beautiful golden chair
raised from the floor by ivory steps. Here, too, at first all had seemed death and silence;
then the cry had been repeated, and they saw that a tiny child lay between the high carved
arms and was watching them with great, beautiful eyes. Around his neck had hung a hastily-written
message:

"This is my son, Nehal Singh, whose life and heritage I intrust to my conquerors in the name
of justice and mercy."

And he had taken the boy in his arms and borne him thence as tenderly as if he had been his own.

Since then twenty-five years had passed. The throne had been given to the tiny heir under the
tutelage of a neighboring prince, and the spirit of forgotten things brooded over the wreck
of the tempest that for over a year had raged about Marut. But the Colonel remembered as if
it had been but yesterday. Others had forgotten the little child, but, perhaps because he had
no children of his own, the memory of the dark baby eyes had never been banished from his mind.
He caught himself wondering, not without a touch of emotion, what sort of man had grown out
of the minute being he had rescued; but curiously enough--and typically enough of the contrariness
of human sympathy--from the moment he caught sight of the tall figure advancing to meet him
from the steps of the palace, all kindly, gentle feelings died out of him, and his old prejudice
of race awoke. Possibly--nay, certainly--the child had had less need of sympathy than the man,
but the Colonel's heart froze toward him, and his formal response to his host's greeting was
icy with the unconquerable consciousness of the gulf between them.

Yet, for eyes unblinded by preconceived aversion, Nehal Singh was at that moment good to look
upon. He was simply dressed in white, with no jewels save for a great diamond in his turban,
and this very simplicity threw into strong relief his unusually well-built figure and the features
to whose almost classical perfection was added a strength, a force of intellect which classical
beauty is too often denied. Quietly and modestly, conscious of his own worth, ignorant and
inexperienced of the world, he was utterly unaware of the stone barrier that his guests presented
to his own open-hearted welcome. For him the whole of his past life concentrated itself on
this moment when the gates of the Universe rolled back, and he advanced to meet the representatives
of its Greatest People. He thought, in the simple, natural egoism of a man who has lived a
life cut off from others, that they would understand this and feel with him.

What his own feelings were he hardly knew--perhaps among them, though unrecognized, was the
faintest chill of disappointment. He had had no definite expectations, but his imagination
had unconsciously been at work, and touched with its illuminating fire the sons of the heroes
whose deeds had filled his quiet existence with romance, painting his picture of them with
colors which the reality did not justify. Certainly the little Colonel had nothing either romantic
or heroic in his appearance, and what was good and kindly in his bronzed face was hidden behind
the mask of his racial pride.

His first words were delivered in a harsh voice, which betrayed only too clearly his real feelings,
though Nehal Singh recognized nothing but its disagreeableness.

"Rajah Sahib, you have honored us with the wish to become acquainted with the English people
dwelling in your State," he began, "and it is therefore my pleasure and duty to present to
you the officers of the regiments--" He stumbled awkwardly, the strangeness of the situation,
the direct and searching gaze of his host, throwing him completely out of whatever oratory
powers he possessed. It was Nehal Singh himself who saved the situation.

"It is my pleasure to receive you," he said, in his slow, painstaking English, "and I am honored
by the readiness with which you have complied with my desire to meet the Great People to whom
my land owes so much. Though hitherto I have lived apart from them, I am not wholly ignorant
of their greatness. I know, for my fathers and my books have shown me, that there is no other
nation so powerful nor whose sons are so noble. Therefore I welcome you with all my heart as
a brother, and if such entertainment as I have tried to prepare for your pleasure is not to
your taste, I pray you to forgive me, for therein am I indeed ignorant."

For a few among the English party his words, spoken slowly and with a simple sincerity, were
not without their charm. Yet, little as he knew it, he had succeeded in one short speech in
touching two dangerous spots in his relationship to his guests--his ancestry and his equality.
But here again his ignorance veiled from him what was written clearly enough on a dozen frozen
faces.

"I should be glad to be made personally acquainted with each of your officers," he went on.
"For men who serve under one flag should know each other well."

Colonel Carmichael obeyed, thankful for any occupation which saved him the necessity of replying;
and one by one the solemn, unmoved faces came under Nehal Singh's eager gaze, bowed, and passed
on. Each resented in turn the intense scrutiny of their host, and none guessed its cause. For
them it was the insolent stare of a colored man who had ventured to place himself on an equality
with themselves. They could not have known that he was seeking familiar features, nor that,
as one after another passed on, a cold chill of disappointment was settling on a heart warm
with preconceived admiration and respect. They could not have known that his unconscious presumption
had hidden a real desire to find among them the hero to whom his man's worship of courage and
greatness could have been dedicated. He was too young--and especially too young in worldly
wisdom--to realize that the outside man is not of necessity the man himself. He merely felt,
as each wooden face confronted his own, that here was surely no Great Man, no Hero. Only when
it came to the civilians his eyes rested with some degree of satisfaction on Travers' well-knit
figure and fresh-colored face. For the first time during the whole proceedings the prince smiled,
and in turn received a smile.

The ladies had by this time arrived, and the presentations continued. There was no change in
Nehal Singh's demeanor when he stood before Beatrice Cary--no change, at least, visible to
the curious eyes that watched. If there was any hidden meaning in his expression during the
brief instant that they looked at each other, only she herself could have read it; and this
she apparently did not do, for her face retained its Madonna peace and dignity.

"I think Rajah Sahib and Miss Cary have already met?" remarked Travers, who was acting as master
of the ceremonies.

"Yes, we have met," Nehal Singh answered, and passed on.

If any hesitation showed itself in his manner, it was before Lois Caruthers. A swift shade
of puzzled surprise clouded his features.

"You have been a long time in India?" he asked, after the first words of introduction. The
question sounded as though he merely sought her affirmation to something he already knew.

"Almost all my life, Rajah Sahib," she answered. Possibly it was a natural shyness which made
her voice sound troubled and nervous. She seemed to heave a sigh of relief when he once more
moved on. Yet he had impressed her agreeably.

"Is he not handsome?" she said in an undertone to her companion, Stafford. "I think he is quite
the handsomest man I have seen, and he has the manners of an Englishman. I wonder where he
got them from."

"I don't know," Stafford returned. "These people have a wonderful trick of picking up things.
At any rate he realizes Miss Cary's curious description--beautiful; though, with Miss Berry,
I do not care for the word as applied to a man. He seems a nice sort of fellow, too, quiet
and unaffected, and that is more to me than his good looks. It's rather a pity."

"What is a pity?" she asked, surprised.

"Oh, well, that he is what he is. Don't look so pained. It's not only my 'narrow-hearted prejudice,'
as you call it. It's more than that. I'm sorry for the man himself. It all confirms my first
opinion that it is rather bad luck."

"Why?" she demanded obstinately.

"Don't you understand? If you had seen Webb's face when he talked about 'as a brother a brother,'
you would have understood well enough. He has been made a fool of, and sooner or later he will
have his eyes roughly opened. As I say, it seems bad luck."

"You mean he would have done better to keep to his old seclusion?" she said thoughtfully.

"That's about it." He smiled down at her, and they suddenly forgot the Rajah in that curious
happiness of two beings who need no words to tell them that each is understood by the other,
and that a secret current of thought and feeling flows beneath every word and touch. "Come,"
he went on. "It seems that we are to have the run of the place. Shall we explore?"

She nodded a quick agreement, and they started off, thus following the example of others of
the party who had already made use of the Rajah's suggestion that they should visit the chief
and most interesting portions of the palace. Nehal Singh himself stood alone, and thankful
for his loneliness. For the last ten minutes Colonel Carmichael and he had stood side by side,
and found no word to say to each other. The past, which might have been a link, proved itself
a barrier which neither could scale, and presently, on some excuse, the Colonel had hurried
off to join his wife. As though guided by a sure instinct, Nehal Singh turned in the direction
where Beatrice was standing with her mother and Travers. Without hesitation he went up to her.

"I have waited to be your guide," he said. His words sounded amusingly decided and matter-of-course,
and a smile of not very sympathetic meaning passed over the faces of those within earshot.

"You can be sure she went a lot further than she cared to say," Mrs. Berry whispered to her
daughter. "You can see how everything was made up beforehand. I wonder what she expects to
get out of him?"

Though the remark did not reach her, Beatrice's instinct and bitter experience supplied her
with a sure key to the look that was exchanged between the two women. She smiled gaily.

"I shall be only too pleased," she said. "What I have seen has made me thirst for more."

"Indeed, Your Highness," Mrs. Cary broke in eagerly. "I must not forget to thank you for the
really very kind assistance you lent my reckless daughter the other day. I do not know what
would have happened to her if it had not been for you!"

Nehal Singh looked at her with a grave wonder.

"You are her mother--?" he said, and then stopped short. The wonder was reflected so clearly
in his tone that an angry flush mounted to Mrs. Cary's fat cheeks.

"I have that honor, Your Highness," she said acidly.

"Mrs. Cary!" Travers called from the flower-bed over which he was leaning. "If the Rajah Sahib
can spare you, do come and look at these flowers. They are extraordinary."

With her head in the air, her plumes waving, a picture of ruffled dignity, Mrs. Cary swayed
her way in the direction indicated, and Nehal Singh and Beatrice found themselves alone.

"Will you come with me now?" he asked. "I have still so much to show you."

She saw the look of self-satisfied "I-told-you-so" horror written on the faces of Mrs. Berry
and her friends, who stood a little farther off whispering and nodding, and if she had felt
the slightest hesitation, she hesitated no longer.

"Lead the way, Rajah Sahib," she said coolly. "I follow."

CHAPTER VIII

THE IDEAL

On either side of them tall palm-trees raised their splendid heads high above the shrubs and
sweet-smelling plants that clustered like a protecting wall about their feet, and as Beatrice
and her companion passed a sharp bend it seemed as though they had been suddenly cut off from
the chattering crowd behind them and had entered into a wonderful, silent world in which they
were alone.

Was it the beauty of her surroundings, or was it the man beside her, which sent the curious,
almost painful emotion through her angry heart? For she was angry--angry with her mother, with
herself and him--chiefly with him. He had been too sure. And yet she was flattered. Also, it
was a pleasure for the first time to be with some one with whom she could drop her weapons
and have no fear. She looked up at him, and found that he was watching her.

"It was not good-by for ever," he said. "We have met again."

Her anger suddenly subsided. His slow English, with its foreign accent, his dark features and
native dress reminded her vividly that he was of another (implied, inferior) race, and therefore
not to be judged by ordinary standards. She gave herself up to the pleasure of the moment.

"You have overthrown destiny," she said, smiling. "You have made the impossible possible. How
was I to know all that when I prophesied we should not meet again?"

"I have not overthrown destiny," he answered. "I have fulfilled it."

"Are you sure of that?"

"Quite sure."

She looked away from him up to the golden dome of the temple which rose before them against
the unclouded sky. Because she had thrown down her weapons, and in the irresponsible pleasure
of the moment become herself, she acquired a power of penetration and understanding which is
denied to those who with their own hearts closed seek to know the hearts of others.

"Do you know," she said suddenly, "when Colonel Carmichael presented himself to you, and all
the others, I watched you, and I rather fancy I read something on your face which you didn't
want to show. I wonder if I am right."

"It is possible," he answered gravely. "In this last hour I have already begun to regret that
I have never studied to control my emotions. I show when I am surprised, disappointed, or--startled.
Hitherto, there has been no reason why I should not do so. But now that I am among my equals,
it is different."

She bit her lip, not in anger but in an almost pained surprise at this man's ignorance of the
world into which he was entering. He was not presuming to place himself on the level with the
Englishman; it seemed as if he were inoffensively lifting the Englishman up to himself. She
was sorry for him as one is sorry for all kindly fools.

"Tell me what you read!" he begged, after a moment. "Perhaps you will know better than I myself.
I am almost sure you will."

"I read disappointment," she answered. "Was that so?"

His brows contracted slightly.

"I was disappointed," he admitted, "but that was my own fault. I had never met English people--only
heard of them. What I had heard made me imagine things which it seems have no reality."

"Did you expect demigods?" she asked.

"I do not know what I expected--but it was something different. You know the men I have met
to-day. Are they all great-hearted and brave?"

She did not laugh at the question, though there was cause enough to have excused it.

"I can not tell you," she answered. "Only circumstances can bring such virtues to light, and
hitherto the circumstances have been lacking. All men do not wear their heart on their sleeve,"
she answered, not without malice.

He nodded.

"I am glad to hear you say that, for no doubt you are right. I am very ignorant, I fear, and
was foolish enough to expect heroes to have the face and figure of heroes. It grieved me for
a moment to find that I was the tallest and best-looking among them. Now that you have explained,
I see that the greatness lies beneath."

This time she laughed, and laughed so heartily that he joined in with her, though he did not
know what had caused her amusement. He took pleasure in watching her when she laughed. Her
statuesque beauty yielded then to a warm, pulsating life, which transformed her and made her
seem to him more human, more attainable. For he had never shaken off the belief that she and
a divine agency were closely linked together.

"You must not compare yourself with Englishmen," she said, when she had recovered, "neither
in face, nor stature, nor ideals. You must always remember that we are of another race."

"And yet you fulfilled my highest ideal."

"Perhaps I am the exception," she retorted, dangerously near another outburst. "Did all the
women this afternoon fulfil your ideal?"

"No!" very decidedly.

"There! You see, then, that I am the exception. Besides, I am not a man. Men require to be
differently judged, and we have perhaps other ideals."

"That also is possible," he assented, "and I know that, because the English are such a great
people, their ideals must be very high, perhaps higher than mine. Since I am now to go among
them, I wish to know what they consider necessary in the character of a great man.".

"That is too hard a question," she said hurriedly. "I can not describe the national ideal to
you, because I am too ignorant and have never thought about it. You must ask some one else."

They had come to the end of the path and stood before a square opening, on the other side of
which the two massive gopuras of the temple rose in their monumental splendor two hundred feet
above them. They were still alone. None of the sightseers seemed to have found the sacred spot,
and for a moment she stood still, awed in spite of herself.

"I should be quite content with your ideal," he said gently, breaking in upon her admiration.
"I feel that it will be the highest."

"You ask of me more than I can answer."

"I beg of you!" he pleaded earnestly. "I have my reasons."

Again she bit her lip. It was too absurd, too ridiculous! That she, of all people, who had
seen into the darkest, most sordid depths of the human character, and long since learned to
look upon goodness and virtue as exploded myths, should be set to work to draw up an ideal
which she did not and could not believe in, seemed a mockery too pitiful for laughter. Yet
something--perhaps it was a form of national pride--stung her to the task, moreover stung her
to do her best and place beyond the reach of these dark hands a high and splendid figure of
English ideals.

To help herself, she sought through the lumber-rooms of her memory, and drew thence a hundred
ideas, thoughts and conceptions which had belonged to a short--terribly short--childhood. Like
a middle-aged woman who comes suddenly upon a hoard of long since forgotten toys, and feels
an emotion half pitying, half regretful, so Beatrice Cary displayed to her companion things
that for years had lain forsaken and neglected in the background of her mind. The dust lay
thick upon them--and yet they were well enough. They would have been beautiful, had she believed
in them, but, like the toys, they had lost the glamour and illusionary light in which her youth
and imagination had bathed them.

"Our highest ideal of a man we call a gentleman," she said slowly. "It is a much-abused term,
but it can mean a very great deal. What his appearance is does not so much matter--indeed,
when one looks into it, it does not matter at all, save that you will find that the ugliest
face can often give you an index to a lovely character. The chief thing that we require of
him is that he should be above all meanness and pettiness. He must be great-thinking and great-feeling
for himself and others, especially for others. You will find that a good man is always thinking
or working for those others whose names he may not even know. Whatever power or talent he has--however
little it may be--he concentrates on some object which may help them. It is the same with his
virtues. He cultivates them because he knows that there is not a high thought, or generous
impulse, or noble deed which does not help to lift the standard of the whole world."

"Of what virtues are you speaking?" Nehal Singh interposed.

"Oh, the usual things," she returned, with a note of cynicism breaking through her sham enthusiasm.
"Honesty, purity, generosity, loyalty--especially loyalty. I do not think a man who is true
to himself, to his word, to his friend, and to his country can ever fall far below the ideal."
She took a deep breath. "It is a very poor description that I have given you. I hope you have
understood?"

"Yes, I have understood," he answered. "And this man--this gentleman--can be of all nations?"

So deeply ingrained is national prejudice, even in those who profess to regard the whole world
with an equally contemptuous eye, that for an instant she hesitated.

"Of course," she said then. "Nationality makes no difference."

They crossed over the broad square, through the gopura, into the inner temple. Nehal Singh,
who had sunk into a deep meditation, roused himself and called to her notice many curious and
beautiful things which she would otherwise have passed by without interest. Whether it was
his loving description, or whether it was because she was calmer, she could not say, but the
place impressed her with its stately magnificence as it had not done before.

"The ages seem to hang like ghosts in the atmosphere," she told her companion, in a hushed
undertone.

He assented, and the dreamer's look which had haunted his eyes for twenty-five years crept
back into its place.

"Who knows what unseen world surrounds us?" he said quietly.

They had already left the first court behind them and passed the Sacred Pool, a placid, untroubled
mirror for the overhanging trees and towering minarets. There they had paused a moment, watching
their own reflections which the warm evening sunshine cast on to the smooth surface. Then they
had moved on, and now stood before the entrance of the Holy of Holies. Beatrice drew back with
a gesture of alarm. A tall, white-clad figure had suddenly stepped out of the shadowy portal
and stood erect and threatening, one hand raised as though to forbid their entrance. Long afterward,
Beatrice remembered the withered face, and always with a shudder of unreasonable terror.

"Do not be afraid," Nehal Singh said. "He defends the entrance against strangers. He will let
you pass."

He went up to the old priest and spoke a few words in Hindustani, which Beatrice did not understand.
Immediately the Brahman stood aside, and though his stern, piercing gaze never left her face,
she felt that by some means or other his animosity had been disarmed.

"What did you say to him?" she asked.

Nehal Singh shook his head.

"One day I will tell you," he answered; and some instinct made her hesitate to press the question
further.

Thus they stood once more before the great golden statue, this time side by side. The sanctuary
was built in the shape of a half-circle, the high, vaulted roof supported by slender pillars
of carved black marble. There was no other attempt at ornamentation. The three-headed figure
of the god reigned in the center from a massive altar in solitary splendor, and from a small
opening overhead a frail ray of evening light mingled its pale yellow with the brilliant crimson
flame of the Sacred Lamp which burnt before the idol, casting an almost unearthly reflection
about the passionless chiseled features. In spite of herself, Beatrice felt that the place
was charmed, and that the charm was drawing into its ban her very thoughts and emotions. She
felt subdued, quieted. It was as she had said--the ages seemed to hover like ghosts about them,
and her hard, worldly skepticism could make no stand against the hush and mystery of the past.
Here generation after generation, amidst danger, battle and death, men had bowed down and poured
out their hottest, most fervent prayers, and their sincerity and faith had sanctified the ground
for Christian, Brahman and skeptic alike.

Beatrice looked at the man beside her. She had the feeling that, while she had stood and wondered,
he had been praying; and possibly she was right, though he returned her glance immediately.

"This is a holy place," he said. "It is holiest of all for me. Here I have spent my most solemn
happy hours; here God spoke direct to me and answered me."

It seemed quite natural that he should speak thus so openly and directly to her of his nearest
concerns. The barrier which separated them perhaps, after all, made the intercourse between
them easier and less constrained than it would otherwise have been. They had no responsibility
toward each other. They lived in different worlds, and if for a moment they exchanged messages,
it was only for a moment. When it was over, the dividing sea would once more roll between them,
leaving no trace of their brief intercourse.

Remembering all this, she threw off the momentary sense of trouble.

"Tell me how and when that was," she said.

"I can not tell you--not now. One day I will. One day I shall have a great deal to tell you,
and you will have a great deal to tell me. You will tell me of your faith. I know nothing of
your God. All that has been kept secret from me."

"How do you know I have a God?" she demanded sharply.

They had passed out of the sanctuary and were walking back toward the entrance. He half stopped
and looked at her in grave surprise.

"How do I know? How, rather, is it possible that it should be otherwise? You are too good and
beautiful not to have learnt at the feet of a great teacher."

His naivete and confidence set her once more in a state between indulgent amusement and anger.
Another man she would have laughed at straight in the face, but this simple belief in her goodness
threw her out of her usual stride, and in the end she left him without answer, save that which
he chose to interpret from her silence.

As they reached the great doorway through the gopura, a tall figure advanced to meet them which
Beatrice at once recognized in spite of the gathering twilight. She had been expecting this
new-comer for some time, yet his appearance disturbed her as something undesirable.

"There is a man I like," Nehal Singh remarked, with a sudden pleasure. "Is not Travers his
name? He disappointed me least of all."

"You have an excellent judgment," Beatrice returned.

If there was an undercurrent of sarcasm in her approval, Nehal Singh did not notice it. He
advanced quickly to meet Travers.

"I am glad you have found your way here," he said. "It is the most beautiful part of all, and
perhaps I should have acted as guide to my other guests. But my first duty was here." He turned
to Beatrice with a grave inclination.

Travers laughed.

"You need be in no alarm, Rajah Sahib," he said. "We have been enjoying ourselves immensely,
and no wonder, considering all the glories that have been laid open to us. I have seen much
wealth and splendor in India, but not as here. I feel overwhelmed."

"There is still much for you to see," Nehal Singh answered with a proud pleasure.

Other members of the party had by this time joined them, and Beatrice dropped back to her mother's
side. The whole thing had been, as Mrs. Berry said, arranged, but not in the way the good lady
supposed, and Beatrice's task was at an end.

Travers hastened his step imperceptibly, so that the distance between him and the rest was
increased beyond hearing distance.

"Of course," he began, with a frank confidence which fell pleasingly on his companion's ears,
"I am a business man, and a great deal of my admiration is from a business standpoint. You
will perhaps hardly understand me when I say that my flesh simply creeps when I think of all
the wealth that lies here inactive. Wealth is power, Rajah Sahib, and in your hand there lies
a power for good or evil which dazzles the senses of a less fortunate man."

Nehal Singh lifted his face thoughtfully toward the evening sky.

"Power for good or evil!" he echoed. "It may be that you are right. But power is a great clumsy
giant, who can accomplish nothing without the experienced guiding brain."

"I imagine you have both, Rajah Sahib."

"Not the experience. I have led a life apart. I feel myself helpless before the very thought
of any effort in the world. Yet I should be glad to accomplish something--to help even a little
in the general progress."

"You will learn easily enough," Travers broke in, with enthusiasm. "It is only necessary to
go outside your gates to find a hundred outlets for energy and purpose. If you traveled two
days among your people, you would come back knowing very well what awaited your power to accomplish."

"I am glad to hear you say so," Nehal returned, smiling, "for I am ambitious."

"Ambition and power!" exclaimed Travers. "You are indeed to be envied, Rajah Sahib!"

"What would you do in my place?" Nehal asked, after a moment, in a lighter tone, which concealed
a real and eager curiosity.

Travers shook his head.

"The greater the power the greater the responsibility," he answered. "I couldn't say on the
spur of the moment. If I were given time, no doubt I should be able to tell you."

"I give you till our next meeting, then," Nehal said gravely.

"Our next meeting? I trust, then, Rajah Sahib that you will condescend to be the guest of the
English Station?"

Nehal turned his head to hide the flash of boyish satisfaction which shone out of his eyes.
It was that he wanted--to go among this people, from their own hearth to judge them, and to
probe down into the source of their greatness.

"It would give me much pleasure," he answered quietly.

It was Travers' turn to hide the triumph which the willing acceptance aroused. Nevertheless,
his next words were whimsically regretful.

"Unfortunately, we have no place in which to offer you a fitting welcome, Rajah Sahib," he
said. "For a long time it has been the ambition of the Station to build some place wherein
all such festivities could be properly celebrated. But alas!"--he shrugged his shoulders--"it
is the fate of the Anglo-Indian to work for the richness and greatness of his country and himself
remain miserably poor."

"How much money would be required?" Nehal Singh asked.

"You will no doubt be amused at the smallness of the sum--a mere four thousand rupees--but
it is just so much we have not got."

Nehal Singh smiled.

"Let me at once begin to make use of my power," he said graciously. "It would be a pleasure
to me to mark my first meeting with you by the gift of the building you require. I place the
matter in your hands, Sahib Travers. For the time being, until I have gained my own experience,
yours must be the guiding brain."

The good-looking Englishman appeared to be considerably taken aback --almost distressed.

"You are too generous, Rajah Sahib!" he protested. To himself he commented on the rapidity
with which this fellow had picked up the lingo of polite society.

All further conversation was cut short by a cry of admiration from the crowd behind them. They
had reached the chief entrance to the palace, and suddenly, as though at a given signal, every
outline of the building became marked out by countless points of light which sparkled starlike
against the darkening sky. At the same instant, the temple to their left took form in a hundred
colors, and a burst of weird music broke on the ears of the wondering spectators. It was a
strange and beautiful scene, such as few of them had ever seen. Fairy palaces of fire seemed
to hover miraculously in the evening air, and over everything hung the curious, indefinable
charm of the mysterious East.

Nehal Singh turned and found Lois Caruthers standing with Stafford a little behind him. Both
their names were forgotten, but the dark eager face of the girl attracted him and at the same
time puzzled him as something which struck a hitherto unsuspected chord in his innermost self.

"You find it well?" he asked her.

"It is most beautiful," she answered. "It is good of you, Rajah Sahib, to give us so much pleasure."

That was all she said, but among all his memories of that evening she remained prominent, because
she had spoken sincerely, warmly, enthusiastically. Others thanked him--the Colonel's little
speech at the end was a piece of studied rhetoric, but it left him cold where her thanks had
left him warm, almost gratefully so.

On the whole, the first meeting between the English residents of Marut and the young native
prince was classified as a success. As they drove through the darkness, the returning guests
called terse criticisms to one another which tended to the conclusion that the whole thing
had not been at all bad, and that for the circumstances the Rajah was a remarkably well-mannered
individual.

Beatrice Cary took no part in the light-hearted exchange. Her mother had gone off with Mrs.
Carmichael in her carriage, and Travers having offered to drive her home, she had accepted,
and now sat by his side, thoughtful, almost depressed, though she did not own it, even to herself.

Try as she would she could not throw off the constantly recurring memory of her parting with
Nehal Singh. She made fun of it and of herself, and yet she could not laugh over it--her power
of irresponsible enjoyment had been taken suddenly from her.

"You will not now say that we shall never meet again," he had said, pressing something into
her hand. "Now you will never forget," he had added. "It is a talisman of remembrance."

What he had given her she did not know. It lay tightly clutched in the palm of her hand--something
hard and cold which she dared not look at.

She had not even been able to remonstrate or thank him. She had been spellbound, hypnotized.

"It really has been splendid!" she heard Travers say in her ear. "Things went just like clockwork.
Five minutes' conversation got the whole clubhouse out of him, and what you managed in your
quarter of an hour, goodness knows. You are a clever woman and no mistake!"

"Please--don't!" she burst out irritably.

"Hullo! What's the matter? What are you so cross about?"

"I'm not cross--only tired, tired, tired and sick of it all. Do drive on!"

Far behind them a solitary figure stood on the broad steps of the palace, amidst the dying
splendors of the evening and gazed in the direction which the merry procession had taken. A
long time it had stood there, motionless, passive, the fine husk of the soul which had wandered
out into a new world of hope and possibilities following the woman whose hand had flung the
gates wide for him to enter in.

Another figure crept out of the shadows and drew near. Twisted and bent, it stood beside the
bold, upright form and lifted its face, hate-filled, to the pale light of the stars.

"Nehal Singh, Nehal Singh--oh, my son!"

The prince turned coldly.

"Is it thou? Hast thou a dagger in thy hand?"

"I have no dagger--would to God I had! Nehal Singh, I have seen mine enemy's face."

"How meanest thou? Thy enemy is dead."

"Nevertheless, his face is among the living. As a servant, I crept among the strangers, and
saw him straight in the eyes. He has grown younger, but it is he. It is the body of the son,
but the soul of his father in his eyes--and, father or son, their blood is poison to me."

Nehal Singh knit his brows.

"Knowest thou his name?"

"Ay, now I know his name. It came back to me when I saw his face. Stafford he was called--Stafford!"
He crept closer, his thin hand fell like a vise on Nehal's arm. "Kill him!" he whispered. "Kill
him--the son of thy father's betrayer!"

Nehal Singh shook himself free.

"I can not," he answered proudly, and a warm thrill of enthusiasm rang in his voice. "I can
not. They are all my brothers. I can not take my brother's blood."

With a moan of anger the twisted figure crept back into the shadow, and once more Nehal Singh
stood alone.

Unconsciously he had accepted and proclaimed Beatrice Cary's ideal as his own. The hour of
bloodshed was gone, mercy and justice called him in its stead. And in that acceptance of a
new era his gaze pierced through the obscurity into a light beyond. The jungle which had bound
his life was gone; all hindrances, all gulfs of hatred and revenge, were overthrown and bridged.
The world of the Great People stood open to him, and to them he held out the casteless hand
of love and fellowship.

CHAPTER IX

CHECKED

Lois and Stafford had arrived at that stage of friendship when conversation becomes unnecessary.
They walked side by side through the Colonel's carefully tended garden and were scarcely conscious
that they had dropped into a thoughtful silence. Yet, as though in obedience to some unspoken
agreement, their footsteps found their way to the ruined bungalow and there paused.

As a look can be more powerfully descriptive than a word, so these shot-riddled walls had their
own eloquence. Each shot-hole, each jagged splinter and torn hinge had its own history and
added its pathetic detail to the whole picture of that disastrous night when the vengeance
of Behar Singh had burst like a hurricane over the defenseless land.

After a moment's hesitation Stafford stepped forward and, pushing aside the heavy festoons
of creeper which barred the doorway, passed through into the gloomy interior.

"I should like to see the place from the inside," he explained to Lois, who, with an uncontrollable
shudder, had followed him. "One can imagine better then how it all happened."

"I think of it all--often," she answered in a hushed voice, "and every time I seem to see things
differently. My poor mother!"

"You never knew her?" he asked.

"No, I was too young--scarcely more than a year old. Yet her loss seems to have overshadowed
my whole life."

"Was she like you?"

"Yes, I believe so. She was dark--not so dark as I am--but she was stately and beautiful. So
she has always been described to me, and so I always seem to see her."

Stafford turned and looked about him.

"It must be almost as it was then," he said wonderingly, pointing to the rusty truckle-bed
in the corner. "And there is the broken over-turned chair! It might have been yesterday."

She nodded.

"So my guardian found it," she said. "It had been my father's bungalow and he never allowed
it to be touched. When I came of age I gave it to him. It seemed to belong to him, somehow.
They say that it nearly broke his heart when he found that he had come too late to save my
father. My father was his dearest, almost his only friend."

"Were they killed at once?" Stafford asked with hesitating curiosity. "I have never known the
rights of the case. It has always been a painful subject for me--with you I don't mind."

It was the faintest allusion to a bond between them which both silently recognized, and Lois
turned away to hide the signal of happiness which had risen to her cheeks.

"No one knows," she answered. "The bodies were never found. It was part of Behar Singh's cruelty
to hide the real fate of his victims. For a long time people used to hope and hope that in
some dungeon or prison they would find their friends, but they never did. One can only pray
that the end was a mercifully quick one."

"And Behar Singh died in the jungle?"

"So the natives said. No one really knows," she replied.

"I wish he hadn't," Stafford said, his good-natured face darkening. "It seems unfair that he
should have caused our people to suffer so much and we have never had the chance to pay back.
Whatever made the Government give his son the power, goodness only knows."

"The present Rajah was a baby then," she said in a tone of gentle remonstrance. "It would have
been hard to have punished him for the sins of his father."

Nothing appeals to a man more than a woman's undiplomatic tenderness for the whole world. Stafford
looked down at Lois with a smile.

"You dear, good-hearted little girl!" he said. "And yet, blood is blood, you know. Somehow,
one can't get over it. In spite of his good looks, it always seems to me as though I could
see his father's treachery in Nehal Singh's eyes. It made me sick to think that I was enjoying
his hospitality--it makes me feel worse that we have to accept the club-house at his hands.
Travers behaved pretty badly, according to my ideas."

"It was mostly Miss Cary's doing," Lois objected. She liked Travers, and was inclined to take
up the cudgels on his behalf.

Stafford's eyes twinkled. On his side he had the rooted and not unfounded masculine notion
that all women are jealous of one another.

"Miss Cary is young and inexperienced and probably did not realize what she was doing," he
retorted. "From what she told me, she takes the whole matter as a big joke, and now that the
fat is in the fire it's no use enlightening her."

Lois made no immediate answer, though she may have had her doubts on the subject of Beatrice
Cary's inexperience.

"The poor Rajah!" she said, after a pause, as Stafford walked curiously about the room. "I
could not help being sorry for him. He seemed so eager and enthusiastic and anxious to please
us, and we were so cold and ungrateful. Tell me, does it really make so much difference?"

He came back to her side. Something in her voice had touched him and stirred to life a warmth
of feeling which was more than that of friendship.

"What makes so much difference?" he asked, smiling down at her small troubled face. "What are
you worrying yourself about now?"

"Oh, it has always troubled me," she answered with the impetuosity which characterized her.
"I have often worried about it. I mean," she added, as he laughed at her incoherence, "all
that race distinction. Does it really mean so much? Will it never be bridged over?"

"Never," he said. "It can't be. It is a justified distinction and to my mind those who ignore
it are to be despised."

He had answered her question with only a part seriousness, his whole interest concentrated
on the charm of her personality. But for once her gravity resisted the suppressed merriment
in his eyes.

"Are the natives, then, so contemptible?" she asked.

"Not exactly contemptible, but inferior. They have not our culture, and whatsoever they borrow
from us is only skin-deep. Beneath the varnish they are their elemental selves--lazy, cruel,
treacherous and unscrupulous. No, no. Each race must keep to itself. Our strength in India
depends on our exclusiveness--upon keeping ourselves apart and above as superior beings. So
long as they recognize we are superior, so long will they obey us."

"It is superiority, then, which prevents every one except professors from taking any interest
in the natives?"

"Possibly," he returned, not quite so much at his ease. "One feels a natural repugnance, you know."

"You would never have anything to do with them?"

"Not if I could help it."

She sighed and turned away as though his gaze troubled her.

"I don't know why--it makes me sad to hear you talk like that," she said. "It seems so terribly
hard."

"It is hard," he affirmed, following her out of the curious, heavy atmosphere into the evening
sunshine. "There are a great many things in life which, as far as we know, are inevitable,
so that there is no use in worrying or thinking about them." Her more serious mood had conquered
his good spirits, and for a moment he stood at her side looking at the disused bungalow with
eyes as thoughtful as her own. "Isn't it strange?" he went on. "Our parents came together from
different ends of the earth, doomed to die in the same spot and in the same hour, and we children,
far away in England, knowing nothing of each other, have drifted back to the fatal place to
find each other there and to--"

"Yes," she said as he hesitated, "it is strange. I could almost think that this bungalow had
some mysterious influence over our lives."

He smiled in half confirmation of her fancy.

"It may be. But come! We have had enough gloom for one evening. Let me gather some flowers
for you before we go back."

She assented, and they followed the winding paths, stopping here and there to cut down some
of the most tempting of Mrs. Carmichael's tenderly loved blossoms and always turning aside
when they came in sight of the Colonel's verandah. No word of tenderness had ever passed between
them, and yet they were happy to be together. It was as though a bond united them which had
grown up, silent and unseen, from the first hour they had met, and in a quiet, peaceful way
they knew that it existed and that they loved each other.

From the verandah where she was sewing by the fading light Mrs. Carmichael could watch their
appearing and disappearing figures amidst the trees with the satisfaction of a confirmed match-maker.
She, too, knew of this bond, and though she was a trifle impatient with the slowness of the
development, she was content to bide her time.

"I don't usually pay any attention to Station gossip," she said to her husband, who was trying
to read the newly arrived English paper, "but for once in a way I believe there is something
in it. According to my experience, they should be engaged in less than a fortnight."

Colonel Carmichael started.

"Who? Lois and Stafford?"

"Yes, of course. Who else? Everybody looks upon it as practically settled. Why do you look
like that? You ought to be pleased. You said yourself that you were very fond of Stafford--"

Carmichael made a quick gesture as though to stop the threatening torrent of expostulation.
He had turned crimson and his whole manner was marked by an unusual uneasiness.

"Of course, I am fond of Stafford," he began. "I only meant--"

He was saved the trouble of explaining what he did mean by a sudden exclamation from his wife,
who had let her work fall to the ground with a start of alarm.

"Good gracious, Mr. Travers!" she cried in her sharp way. "What a fright you gave me! I thought
you were a horrible thug or something come to murder us all. There, how do you do!" She gave
him her hand. "Will you have a cup of tea? We have just had ours, but if you would, I am quite
ready to keep you company. Tea, as you know, is a weakness of mine. That is why my nerves are
so bad."

Travers bowed, smiling. He was rather paler than usual and the hand which held a large bouquet
of freshly cut flowers trembled as though the shock his sudden appearance had caused Mrs. Carmichael
had recoiled on himself.

"Thank you--no," he said. "As a matter of fact, I came to bring these for Miss Caruthers, but
as she is not here I should be very grateful if I might have a few words with you alone. I
have something of importance, which it would be perhaps better to tell you first."

"Certainly," the Colonel said, clearing his throat and settling himself farther back in his
chair. "There is no time like the present."

Travers looked at him in troubled surprise. The elder man's tone and attitude were those of
some one confronted with a not unexpected but unpleasant crisis.

"It concerns your ward, Colonel Carmichael," Travers said, taking the chair offered him. "I
think you must have known long ago that I cared very dearly for her. I have come now to ask
her to be my wife."

He spoke quickly and abruptly, as though to hide a powerful emotion, and there was an instant's
uncomfortable silence. Mrs. Carmichael's head was bent over her work. She did not dislike Travers,
but this unexpected proposal upset all her plans and though it flattered her pride in Lois,
she felt disturbed and thrown out of her course.

"I think you have made a mistake, Mr. Travers," she said at last, as her husband remained obstinately
silent. "I have every reason to believe that Lois' heart is given elsewhere. However, we have
no right to interfere--Lois must decide for herself. She is her own mistress. What do you say,
George, dear?"

The Colonel shifted his position. Evidently he was at a loss to express himself, and his brow
remained clouded.

"If it is Lois' wish, I shall put no obstacle in the way of her happiness," he said slowly.

"Have you any personal objection, Colonel?"

"I? O, dear, no!" was the hurried answer.

There was a second silence, in which Mrs. Carmichael and Travers exchanged baffled glances.
The Colonel seemed in some unaccountable way to have lost his nerve and, as though he felt
and feared the questioning gaze of his wife, he leaned forward so that his face was hidden.

"Personally I have no objection at all," he repeated, as if seeking to gain time. "Like my
wife, I had other ideas on the subject, but that has nothing to do with it. At the same time,
I feel it--eh--my duty to--eh--tell you before you go further--for your sake, and--eh--every
one's sake--certain details concerning Lois which I have not thought necessary to give to the
world in general. You understand--I consider it my duty--only fair to yourself and Lois."

"I quite understand," Travers said. He seemed in no way surprised, and his expression was that
of a man waiting for the explanation to a problem which had long puzzled him.

"Really, George!" expostulated Mrs. Carmichael, not without indignation, "one would think you
were about to disinter the most horrible family skeleton. You are not to be alarmed, Mr. Travers.
It is all a little mysterious, perhaps, but nothing to make such a fuss about."

The Colonel looked up under the sting of her reproach and tried to smile.

"I dare say my wife is right," he said. "I am rather foolish about the matter--possibly because
it is all linked together with a very painful period of my life. Mr. Travers, my dearest friend,
Steven Caruthers, had no children. The baby girl whom by his will he intrusted to my care was
not his child, nor have I ever been able to discover whose child she really was. His will spoke
of her as his adopted daughter, who was to bear his name and in fault of any other heir to
inherit both his own and his wife's large fortune. More I can not tell you, for I myself do
not know more."

He laid an almost timid emphasis on the word "know," as though somewhere at the back of his
mind there lurked a suspicion which he dared neither deny nor express openly, and, in spite
of his attempt at cheerfulness, his features were still disturbed and gloomy.

"You know one thing more, which you haven't mentioned," Mrs. Carmichael said, "and that is
that Lois is of good family on both sides. Steven Caruthers told you so."

"Yes, that's true--I forgot," the Colonel assented. "He assured me that on both sides she was
of good, even high birth, and that he had adopted her partly because he had no children of
his own and partly because of a debt of gratitude which he owed her father. It does not seem
to me that it makes much difference."

"It makes all the difference in the world, George," retorted Mrs. Carmichael, who for some
reason or another was considerably put out. "You don't want Mr. Travers to think that Lois
was picked up in the street, do you?"

"Of course not," her husband agreed, "but then--" He broke off, and all three relapsed into
an awkward silence. Travers was the first to speak. He had been looking out over the garden
and had seen Lois' white dress flash through the bushes.

"For my part," he began quietly, "I can not see that what you have told me can have an influence
on the matter. I love Lois. That is the chief thing--or rather the chief thing is whether or
not she can learn to love me. Whether she is the child of a sweep or a prince, it makes no
difference to my feelings toward her."

Mrs. Carmichael held out her hand.

"Well, whatever happens, you are a man before you are a prig," she said, "and that is something
to be thankful for in these degenerate days. Why, there is the child herself! Come here, my dear."

Lois came running up the verandah steps with Stafford close behind her. Her eyes were full
of laughter and sunshine, and in her hand she held a mass of roses which Stafford had gathered
during their ramble.

"Good-evening, Mr. Travers," she exclaimed with pleased surprise, as he rose to greet her.
"I did not expect to find you here. How grave you all look! And what lovely flowers!"

Travers considered his bouquet with a rueful smile.

"I brought them from my garden, Miss Caruthers," he said. "They were meant for to-night's festivity.
But it seems they have come too late--you are already well supplied."

"Flowers never come too late and one can never have too many of them!" Lois answered gratefully.
"Please bring them in here and I will put them in water."

She led the way into the drawing-room and he followed her eagerly. Whether it was the sight
of her charm and youth, or the warm greeting which he had read in her eyes, or the satisfied
calm on Stafford's face, Travers himself could not have told, but in that moment he lost his
usual self-possession. He was white and shaken like a man who sees himself thrust suddenly
to the brink of a chasm and knows that he must cross or fall.

"Miss Caruthers!" he said.

She turned quickly from the flowers which she was arranging in a bowl. The smile of pleasure
which still lingered about her lips died away as she saw his face.

"Miss Caruthers," he repeated earnestly, "it is perhaps neither wise nor right of me to speak
now, but there are moments when anything--even the worst--is better than uncertainty, when
a man can bear no more. Forgive me--I am not eloquent and what I have to tell can be encompassed
in one word. I love you, Lois. I think you must know it, though you can not know how great
my love is. Is there any hope for me?"

She drew her hand gently but firmly from his half-unconscious clasp.

"I am sorry--no," she said.

"Lois--I can't give up hope. Is there some one else?"

She lifted her troubled eyes to his face. He saw in their depths a curious doubt and uncertainty.

"I do not know," she said almost to herself. "I only know that you are not the man."

The blow had calmed him. Like a good general who has suffered a temporary check, he gathered
his forces together and prepared an orderly retreat.

"I will not trouble you," he said gently. "I feel now that I did wrong to disturb your peace--God
knows I would never willingly cause you an instant's sorrow--but a man who loves as I do must
feed himself with hope, however wild and unreasonable. Now I know, and whatever happens--I
hope you will be happy--I pray you will be happy. Yes, though I am not given to uttering prayers,
I pray, so dear to me is the future which lies before you."

"I am very grateful," she said with bowed head. Something in his broken, disjointed sentences
brought the tears to her eyes and made her voice unsteady. She knew he was suffering--she knew
why, and her heart went out to him in friendship and womanly pity.

"You need not be grateful," he answered. "It is I who have to be grateful. In spite of it all,
you do not know what good you have brought into my life nor how you have unconsciously helped
me. I shall never be able to help you as you have helped me--and yet--will you promise me something?"

"Anything in my power," she said faintly.

"It is not much--only this. If the time should ever come when you are in trouble, if you should
ever be in need of a true and devoted friend, will you turn to me? Will you let me try to pay
my debt of gratitude to you?"

She lifted her head and looked at him with tear-dimmed eyes. Every good woman sympathizes with
those whose suffering she has inadvertently caused, and in that moment Lois would have done
anything to alleviate Travers' pain.

"If it should ever be necessary, I will turn to you," she said gently. "I promise you."

"Thank you!" he said, and, taking her out-stretched hand, raised it reverently to his lips.

CHAPTER X

AT THE GATES OF A GREAT PEOPLE

Although Travers lost no time in setting to work on the task of calling a new and suitable
club-house into existence, he realized immediately that, do what he would, he could not hope
for completion before the lapse of a considerable time, and this period of waiting did not
suit his plans. Already on the day after the Rajah's reception he had arranged for a return
of hospitality which was to take place in his own grounds and to be on an unusually magnificent
scale. The European population of Marut shrugged its shoulders as it saw the preparations,
and observed that if Travers had been as generous in the first place there would never have
been any need to have sought for support from a foreign quarter--at which criticism Travers
merely smiled. The club-house was, after all, only a means to a very much more important end
of his own.

Rajah Nehal Singh of course accepted the invitation sent him, and scarcely a week passed before
the eventful evening arrived toward which more than one looked forward with eager anticipation--not
least Mrs. Cary, who saw in every large entertainment a fresh opportunity for Beatrice to carry
out her own particular campaign. It was therefore, as Mrs. Cary angrily declared, a fresh dispensation
of an unfriendly Providence that on the very same day Beatrice fell ill. What malady had her
in its clutches was more than her distracted and aggrieved mother could say. She sat before
her writing-table, playing idly with a curiously cut stone, and appeared the picture of health.
Yet she was ill--she repeated it obstinately and without variation a dozen times in response
to Mrs. Cary's persistent protests.

"You don't look ill," Mrs. Cary exclaimed in exasperation as, arrayed in her newest wonder
from Paris, she came to say good-by. "I can't think what's the matter with you, and you won't
explain. Have you got a pain anywhere?--Have you a headache? For goodness' sake, say something,
child!"

Beatrice looked at her mother calmly, and a curious mixture of bitterness and amusement crept
into her expression as her eyes wandered over the bulk in mauve satin to the red face with
the indignant little eyes.

"What do you want me to say?" she asked. "I can't explain pains I haven't got."

"If you haven't got any pains, then you aren't ill."

Beatrice laughed.

"That shows how ignorant you are of the human constitution, my dear mother," she said. "The
worst illnesses are painless--at least, in your sense of the word."

"I am not so ignorant as not to know one thing--and that is you are simply shamming!" burst
out the elder woman, with a vicious tug at her straining gloves. "Shamming just to aggravate
me, too! You do it to spite me. You are a bad daughter--"

Beatrice turned round so sharply that Mrs. Cary broke off in the middle of her abuse with a gasp.

"I do nothing to aggravate or spite you," Beatrice said, with a calm which her eyes belied.
"I have never gone against you in the whole course of my life. What have I done since we have
been here but play an obedient fiddle to Mr. Travers' will, in order that your position might
not be endangered--"

"Our position," interposed Mrs. Cary hurriedly.

"No, your position. There may have been a time when I cared, too, but I don't now. I have ceased
caring for anything. To suit Mr. Travers, I have fooled, and continue to fool, a man who has
never harmed me in his life. I move heaven and earth to come between two people for whom alone
in this whole place, I have a glimmer of respect."

"Respect!" jeered Mrs. Cary.

"Yes, respect--not much, I confess, but still enough to have made me leave them alone if I
had had the chance. Lois has been kind to me. I happen to know that, little as she likes me,
she is about the only one in the Station who keeps her tongue from slander and--the truth.
As for John Stafford, if he is a narrow-minded bigot, he is at least a man, and that is something
to appreciate."

"That is just what I think!" Mrs. Cary said conciliatingly. "And therefore he is the very husband
for you, dear child."

"You think so, not because he is a man, but because he has a position in which it would suit
you excellently to have a son-in-law. Well, I have promised to do my best, though I am convinced
it is too late."

"There is no official engagement between them," Mrs. Cary said hopefully, "and you know your
power, Beaty. He already likes you more than enough, and what with Mr. Travers on the other
side--All the same," she continued, becoming suddenly petulant, "it's too bad of you to throw
away a chance like this."

Beatrice covered her face with her hand with a gesture of complete weariness.

"I have promised to do my best," she reiterated. "Let me do it my own way. I can not go to-night--I
feel I can not. If I went, it would only be a failure. Let me for once be judge of what is best."

Her mother sighed resignedly.

"Very well. I suppose I can't force you. You can be as obstinate as a mule when you choose.
I only hope you won't live to regret it. Good night."

This time she did not give her daughter the usual perfunctory and barely tolerated kiss. At
the bottom of her torpid, selfish soul she was bitterly hurt and disappointed, as those people
always are who have hurt and disappointed others their whole lives, and only a glimmer of hope
that Beatrice's determination might have softened made her hesitate at the door and glance
back. Beatrice sat just as she had sat the whole evening, in an attitude of moody thought,
her fingers still playing with the blood-red ruby, and Mrs. Cary went out, slamming the door
violently after her.

In consequence of her long and futile appeal, Mrs. Cary had made herself very late, and when
she entered the large marquee which Travers had had erected in his garden she found that all
the guests had arrived, including Rajah Nehal Singh himself. He stood facing the entrance,
and she felt, with a consoling sense of spiteful triumph, how his glance hurried past her,
seeking the figure which no doubt above all else had tempted him thither.

The senior lady, Mrs. Carmichael, was at his side, and as Mrs. Cary in duty bound went up to
pay her respects, she added satisfaction to satisfaction by relating loudly that her daughter
had a slight headache which she had not thought it worth while to increase by a form of entertainment
which, between you and me, dear Mrs. Carmichael, bad taste as it no doubt is, has no attractions
for Beatrice. Now, anything outdoor, and nothing will keep her from it! She turned to Stafford,
who was standing with Lois close at hand. "That reminds me to tell you, Captain, how tremendously
my daughter enjoyed her ride with you yesterday. If you promise not to get conceited, I will
tell you what she said."

"I promise!" he said, with a mock gravity which concealed a very real amusement.

"She said that in her opinion there wasn't a better horseman in Marut, and that it was more
pleasure to ride with you than any one else. Now, are you keeping your promise?" She tapped
him playfully on the arm. Stafford bowed, looking what he felt, hot and uncomfortable. There
are some people who have the knack of making others ashamed of them and of themselves. Mrs.
Cary was just such a person.

"It was very kind of Miss Cary to say so," Stafford said stiffly. "I am afraid her praise is
not justified."

All this time Nehal Singh had been standing at Mrs. Cary's elbow, and she had persistently
ignored him. Deeper than her reverence for any form of title was her wounded conviction that
he had once laughed at her and made her ridiculous, and to this injury was added the insult
that it came from a man whom, as an Englishwoman, she had the privilege of "tolerating." A
true parvenu, she had quickly learned to suspect and despise the credentials of other intruders.

He turned away from her and for the first time there was something hesitating and troubled
in his manner. Hitherto there had been songs and music for his entertainment; it was now the
turn of the Europeans to follow their usual form of pleasure, yet they looked at one another
questioningly. It was the custom of the chief guest of the evening to open the dancing, but
this could hardly be expected of a native prince who was as yet ignorant of such things and
who must still be bound and fettered by caste and religion.

The pause of uncertainty lasted only a moment, but for those at least whose eyes were open,
it was a moment symbolical of a great loneliness. In the midst of a gay and crowded world of
people, linked together by a common tie of blood, Nehal Singh stood isolated. He did not know
it, but it was that loneliness which cast a transitory chill upon his enthusiasm and made him
draw himself stiffly upright and face the hundred questioning eyes with a new hauteur. An instant
and it was gone--that illuminating flash vanished, like a line drawn across a quicksand, beneath
the surface, never to be seen again, perhaps never even to be remembered.

Stafford led Lois out into the center, and one pair after another followed his example. With
Travers still at his side, the Rajah drew back from the now crowded floor of dancers, and watched
the scene with glistening, eager eyes, happy at last to be in the midst of them--the Great
People of the world. It was a brilliant scene, for Travers had spared nothing. The sides of
the marquee banked with flowers, the music, the brilliant dresses and uniforms, were all calculated
to impress a mind as yet curiously unspoiled by the pomp and magnificence of the East. They
impressed Nehal Singh deeply; his mind was filled with a wonder and pleasure which did something
toward soothing the first bitter disappointment that the evening had brought him.

But above all else, he wondered at himself and the rapidity of the fate which in two short
weeks had swept him out of his solitude into the very vortex of a world unknown to him save
through his books. He asked himself what power it was that had flung aside caste, religion,
education, like a child's sandcastle before the onrush of a mighty tide. Caste, religion, hatred
of the foreigner, these things had been sown deep into him, had been fostered and trained like
precious plants, and now they were dead at the first contact with European ideas. They were
gone as though they had never been. He had made no resistance. He had drifted with the stream,
regardless of the entreating, threatening hands held out to him; yielding to a divine power
stronger than himself, stronger far than the implanted principles of his life.

His wonder, though he did not know it, was shared by the Englishman at his side. Travers, accustomed
as he was to look upon human theories and principles as buyable and saleable appendages, could
not suppress a mild surprise at the rapidity with which this Hindu prince had assimilated the
ideas and mental attitude of another hemisphere. Possibly it could be traced back to the parrot-like
propensities of all inferior races, but Travers, much as the solution appealed to him, could
not accept it. A parrot that assumes with apparent ease the ways of his master within a fortnight,
and thereby retains a striking originality of his own, is not an ordinary parrot, and the conviction
was dawning on Travers that Nehal Singh was not an ordinary Hindu. The unusual simplicity of
his dress, which nevertheless concealed a costly and refined taste, his firm though unpretentious
bearing, the energy with which he had overthrown what Travers guessed must have been a fairly
violent opposition on the part of his priestly advisers, pointed to a decided, interesting
and perhaps, under certain circumstances, dangerous personality. The latter part of this deduction
had not as yet struck Travers in its full force, but so much he at least felt that he proceeded
to go warily, relying on his diplomacy and still more on a weapon which was not the less effective
for being kept, as on this occasion, in the background.

"Rajah Sahib, this is our second meeting," he said, after a few minutes' study of the handsome
absorbed face. "I have my answer ready."

Nehal Singh turned at once, as though he had been waiting for Travers to broach the subject.

"You have not forgotten, then?"

"Forgotten? No; it lent itself too easily to my fancy and secret ambition for me to forget.
Doubtless, though, my answer will not appeal to you, for it is the answer of a business man
with a business hobby of immense proportions and of the earth earthy."

"Nevertheless, tell it to me," Nehal Singh said, looking about him as though seeking a way
out of the noise and confusion. "Whatever it is, it will interest me so long as it has one object."

"I venture to think I know that object," was Travers' mental comment as he led the way into
the second division of the marquee.

The place had been laid out as a refreshment room, with small, prettily decorated tables, and
was for the moment empty, save for a few busy native servants. An electric globe hung from
the ceiling, and immediately beneath its brilliant light Travers came to a standstill. He put
his hand in his pocket and drew out what seemed to be a jewel-case, which he opened and handed
to the Rajah.

"Before I say anything further, I want you to look at that and give me your opinion, Rajah
Sahib," he said. "I will then proceed."

Nehal Singh took the small white stone from the case and studied it intently. He held it to
the light, and it flashed back at him a hundred brilliant colors. He smiled with the pleasure
of a connoisseur.

"It is a diamond," he said, "a beautiful diamond. Though smaller, it must surely equal the
one I wear in my turban."

"You confirm my opinion and the opinion of all experts," Travers answered enthusiastically,
"and I will confess to you that it is that stone which has prolonged my stay indefinitely at
Marut. About a year ago a friend of mine, an engineer, who was engaged on some government work
at the river, had occasion to make excavations about a quarter of a mile from the Bazaar. He
happened to come across this stone, and being something of an expert, he recognized it--and
held his tongue. When he came south again to Madras, he confided hit discovery to me, and,
impressed by his story, and the stone, I sent a mining engineer to Marut to make secret investigations.
I received his report six months ago."

Nehal Singh replaced the stone slowly in its case.

"What did he say?" he asked.

"He reported that there were sure and certain signs that the whole of the Bazaar is built upon
a diamond field of unusual proportions, which, unlike other Indian mining enterprises, was
likely to repay, doubly repay, exploitation. I immediately came to Marut, and found that the
Bazaar was entirely your property, Rajah Sahib, and that you were not likely to be influenced
by any representations. Nevertheless I remained, experimenting and investigating, above all
hoping that some chance would lead me in your way. Destiny, as you see, Rajah Sahib, has spoken
the approving word."

Nehal Singh sighed as he handed the case back, and the sigh expressed a. rather weary disappointment.

"I have stones enough and wealth enough," he said. "I have no need of more."

"It was not of you I was thinking, Rajah Sahib," Travers returned.

"Of whom, then?"

"Of myself, to some extent, as becomes a business man, but also, and I venture to assert principally,
of the general welfare of your country and people."

"I fear I do not understand you."

"And yet, Rajah Sahib, you have read, and have no doubt been able to trace through history
the source of prosperity and misfortune among the nations. The curse of India is her overpopulation
and the inability of her people to extract from the earth sufficient means for existence. If
I may say so, the ordinary native is a dreamer who prefers to starve on a treasure hoard rather
than bestir himself to unbury it. Lack of energy, lack of initiative, lack of opportunity,
lack also of guides have made your subjects suffering idlers whose very existence is a curse
to themselves and an unsolved problem for others. Charity can not help them--that enervating
poison has already done enough mischief. You could fling away your whole fortune on your state,
and leave it with no improvement. The cure, if cure there be, lies in the awakening of a sense
of independence and ambition and self-respect. Only work can do this, only work can transform
them from beggars into honorable, self-supporting members of the Empire; and the crying misery
of the present time calls upon you, Rajah Sahib, to rouse them to their new task!"

He had spoken with an enthusiasm which grew in measure as he saw its effect upon his hearer.
For though he did not immediately respond, Nehal Singh's face had betrayed emotions which a
natural dignity was learning to hold back from impulsive expression. He answered at last quietly,
but with an irrepressible undercurrent of eagerness.

"You speak convincingly," he said; "and though I fear you overrate the hidden powers of activity
in my people, you have made me still more anxious for a direct answer to my question--what
would you do in my place?"

"If I had the money and the power, I would sweep the Bazaar, with all its dirt and disease,
out of existence," Travers answered energetically. "I would build up a new native quarter outside
Marut, and enforce order and cleanliness. Where the present Bazaar stands, I would open out
a mine, and with the help of European experts encourage the natives into the subsequent employment
which would stand open to them. In a short time a mere military Station would become the center
of native industry and commercial prosperity."

A faint skeptical smile played around Nehal Singh's mouth, but his eyes were still profoundly
grave.

"If I know my people, I fear they will revolt against such changes," he said. "You have described
them as dreamers who prefer starvation to effort--such they are."

"Your influence would be irresistible, Rajah Sahib."

Nehal Singh looked at Travers keenly. For the second time he had been spoken of as a power.
Was it perhaps true, as his father had said, and this cool Englishman had said, that the thoughts
and actions of more than a million people lay at his command? If so, the twenty-five years
of his life had been wasted, and he stood far below the high standard which had been set him.
He had wandered aimlessly along a smooth path, cut off from the world, plucking such fruits
and flowers as offered themselves within his reach, deaf to the cries of those to whom his
highest efforts should have been dedicated. He had dreamed where he should have acted, slept
where he should have watched and labored unceasingly, yet it was not too late. He felt how
his whole dream-world shivered beneath the convulsions of his awakening energies. The vague,
futile, uneasy longings of his immaturity took definite shape. His shackled abilities awaited
only the signal to throw off their fetters and in freedom to create good for the whole world.

"You have shown me possibilities of which I never dreamed," he said to Travers. "I must speak
to you again, and soon, for if things are as you say, then time enough has been wasted. But
not tonight. Tomorrow I will see you--or no, not tomorrow--the day after. I must have time
to think."

The waltz had died sentimentally into silence, and he made a gesture indicating that he wished
to return to the ball-room. Yet on the threshold he hesitated and drew back.

"The light and confusion trouble me," he said, passing his hand over his eyes, "and my mind
is full of new thoughts. If you will permit, I will take my leave. My servants are waiting
outside, and if you will carry my thanks to my other hosts, I should prefer to go unnoticed."

"It is as you wish, Rajah Sahib," Travers returned, "It is we who have to thank you for partaking
of our poor hospitality."

"You have given me more than hospitality," Nehal Singh interposed. Then he lifted his hand
in salute. "In two days I shall expect you."

"In two days."

Travers watched the tall, white-clad figure pass out of the brightly lighted tent into the
darkness. From beginning to end, his plans had been crowned with unhoped-for success, and yet
he was puzzled.

"I wonder why in two days?" he thought. "Why not tomorrow? I wonder if by any chance--!" He
broke off with a smothered laugh. "It is just possible. I'll make sure and send her a line."

Then, as the band began the first bars of a second waltz, he hurried back into the crowded
room in time to forestall Stafford at Lois' side.

CHAPTER XI

WITHIN THE GATES

Nehal Singh's servants stood with the horses outside Travers' compound and waited. Their master
did not disturb them. Glad as he was to get away from the crowd of strangers and the dazzling
lights and colors, it still pleased him to be within hearing of the music which, softened by
the distance, exercised a melancholy yet soothing influence upon his disturbed mind. For the
dreamy peace had gone for ever--as indeed it must be when the soul of man is roughly shaken
into living, pulsating life, and he fevered with a hundred as yet disordered hopes and ambitions.
To be a benefactor to his people and to all mankind, to be the first pioneer of his race in
the search after civilization and culture--these had been the dreams of his hitherto wasted
life, only he had never recognized them, never understood whither the restless impulses were
driving him. It had needed the pure soul of a good woman to unlock the best from his own; it
had needed the genius of a clear brain to harness the untrained faculties to some definite
aim. The soul of a woman had come and had planted upon him the purity of her high ideal; the
genius had already shot its first illuminating ray into his darkness. Henceforth the watchword
for them all was to be "Forward," and Nehal Singh, standing like a white ghost in the deserted
compound, shaken by the force of his own emotions, intoxicated by his own happiness and the
shining future which spread itself before his eyes, sent up a prayer such as rarely ascends
from earth to Heaven. To whom? Not to Brahma. His mind had burst like a raging tide over the
flood-gates of caste and creed and embraced the whole world and the one God who has no name,
no creed, no dogma, but whom in that moment he recognized in great thanksgiving as the Universal
Father.

Thus far had Nehal Singh traveled in two short weeks--guided by a woman who had no God and
a man who had no God save his own ends. But he did not know this. As he began to pace slowly
backward and forward, listening to the distant music, he thought of her, and measured himself
with her ideal in a humility which did not reject hope. One day he would be able to stand before
her and say, "Thus far have I worked and striven for inner worth and for the good of my brothers.
I have kept myself pure and honest, I have cultivated in myself the best I have, and have been
inexorable against the evil. Thus much have I attained."

Further than that triumphant moment he did not think, but he thanked God for the ideal which
had been set him--the Great People's ideal of a man--and for the afterward which he knew must come.

Thus absorbed in his own reflections, he reached Travers' bungalow, and a ray of light falling
across his path, brought him sharply back to the present reality. He looked up and saw that
a table had been pulled out on to the verandah, and that four officers sat round it, playing
cards by the light of a lamp. At Marut there was always a heavy superfluity of men, and these
four, doubtless weary of standing uselessly about, had made good their escape to enjoy themselves
in their own way. Nehal Singh hesitated. He felt a strong desire to go up and join them, to
learn to know them outside the enervating, leveling atmosphere of social intercourse where
each is forced to keep his real individuality hidden behind a wall of phrases. Now, no doubt,
they would show themselves openly to him as they were; they would admit him into the circle
of their intimate life, and teach him the secret of the greatness which had carried their flag
to the four corners of the earth. Yet he hesitated to make his presence known. The study of
the four faces, unconscious of his scrutiny, absorbed him.

The two elder men were known to him, although their names were forgotten. Their fair hair,
regular, somewhat cold, features led him to suppose that they were brothers. The other two
were considerably younger--they seemed to Nehal Singh almost boys, though in all probability
they were his own age. One especially interested him. He was a good-looking young fellow, with
pleasant if somewhat effeminate features and a healthy skin bronzed with the Indian sun. He
sat directly opposite where Nehal Singh stood in the shadow, and when he shifted his cards,
as he often did in a restless, uneasy way, he gave the unseen watcher an opportunity to study
every line of his set face.

Nehal Singh wondered at his expression. The others were grave with the gravity of indifference,
but this boy had his teeth set, and something in his eyes reminded Nehal Singh of a dog he
had once seen confronted suddenly with an infuriated rattle-snake. It was the expression of
hypnotized fear which held him back from intruding himself upon them, and he was about to retrace
his steps quietly when the man who was seated next the balustrade turned and glanced so directly
toward him that Nehal Singh thought his presence was discovered. The officer's next words showed,
however, that his gaze had passed over Nehal Singh's head to the brightly lighted marquee on
the other side of the compound.

"I'm glad to be out of that crush," Captain Webb said, as he lazily gathered up his cards.
"Fearfully rotten show I call it--not a pretty girl among the lot, and a heat enough to make
the devil envious! I can't think what induced our respected Napoleon to make such a fool of
himself."

"Napoleon hasn't made a fool of himself, you can make yourself easy on that score," Saunders
retorted. "Napoleon knows on which side of the bread his butter lies, even if you don't. When
he dances attendance on any one, you can take it on trust that the butter isn't far off. No,
no; I've a great reverence for Nappy's genius."

"It's an infernally undignified proceeding, anyhow," Webb went on. "I'm beginning to see that
old Stafford wasn't so far wrong. What do we want with the fellow? All this kowtowing will
go to his head and make him as 'uppish' as the rest of 'em. He's conceited enough, already,
aping us as though he had been at it all his life."

"That's the mistake we English are always making," grumbled Saunders, as he played out. "We
are too familiar. We swallow anything for diplomacy's sake, even if it hasn't got so much as
a coating of varnish. We pull these fellows up to our level and pamper them as though they
were our equals, and then when they find we won't go the whole hog, they turn nasty and there's
the devil to pay. In this case I didn't mind so long as he kept his place, but then that's
what they never do. That's our rubber, I think. Shall we stop?"

"I've had enough, anyhow," his vis-a-vis answered. "Add up the dern total, will you, there's
a good fellow. I must be getting home. There's that boring parade to-morrow at five again,
and I've got a headache that will last me a week, thanks to Nappy's bad champagne. Well, what's
the damage?"

The young fellow who had sat with his head bowed over his cards looked up with a sickly smile.

"Yes, what's the damage?" he said. "I can't be bothered--I've lost count. You and I must have
done pretty badly, Phipps."

"I dare say we shall survive," his partner rejoined carelessly. "We have lost five rubbers.
How does that work out, Webb?"

"I'll trouble you for a hundred each," Webb answered, after a minute's calculation. "Quite
a nice, profitable evening for us, eh, Saunders. Thanks, awfully, old fellow." He gathered
up the rupees which the boy's partner had pushed toward him. The boy himself sat as though
frozen to stone. Only when Saunders gave him a friendly nudge, he started and looked about
him as though he had been awakened out of a trance.

"I'm awfully sorry," he stuttered; "you and Webb--would you mind waiting till to-morrow? I'll
raise it somehow--I haven't got so much--"

Phipps broke into a laugh.

"You silly young duffer!" he said. "What have you been doing with your pocket money, eh? Been
buying too many sweeties?"

The other two men roared, but the boy's features never relaxed.

"I tell you I haven't got so much with me," he mumbled. "I'll bring it to-morrow, I promise."

Webb rose from his chair, stretching himself languidly.

"All right," he agreed. "To-morrow will do. By Jove, what a gorgeous night it is!" He leaned
over the balustrade, lifting his aristocratic face to the sky. "Saunders, you don't want to
go to bed, you old cormorant. Come on with me, and we'll spend the night hours worthily."

"I'm game!" Saunders rejoined. "That is, if it's anything decent. I'm not going to do any more
tar-worshipping, that's certain."

"Don't want you to. I'm going to dress up and have a run around the Bazaar, and if you want
a little excitement, you had better do likewise. You see things you don't see in the daytime,
I can tell you, and some of the women aren't bad. Come on! We can run round to my diggings
and change. Are you coming, Phipps and Geoffries?"

The weedy young man addressed as Phipps rose with alacrity.

"Anything for a change," he said. "Wake up, Innocence!" He brought his hand down with a friendly
thump on Geoffries' shoulder, but the boy shook his head.

"No," he said, in the same rough, monotonous voice. "I'm done for to-night. You fellows get
on without me."

"As you like. Good night."

"Good night."

The three men went into the bungalow. Gradually their voices died away in the distance, but
the boy never moved, never shifted his blank stare from the cards in front of him. It was a
curious tableau. In the midst of the darkness it was as though a lime-light had been thrown
on to a theatrical representation of despair, while beneath, hidden by the shadow, a lonely
spectator, to whom the scene was a horrible revelation, fought out a hard battle between indignation
and disbelief.

Throughout the conversation Nehal Singh had stood rigid, his hand clenched on the jeweled hilt
of his sword, his eyes riveted on the faces of the four men who were thus unconsciously drawing
him into the intimate circle of their life. Much that they said was incomprehensible to him.
The references to "Napoleon" and to the unknown individual contemptuously dubbed "the fellow"
were not clear, but they left him a gnawing sense of insult and scorn which he could not conquer.
The subsequent chink of money changing hands had jarred upon his ears--the final dispute concerning
their further pleasure made him sick with disgust. These "gentlemen" sought their amusement
in a place where he would have scorned to set his foot.

This fact obliterated for a moment every other consideration. Was it to these that his hero-worship
was dedicated? Were these the men from whom he was to learn greatness of thought, heroism of
action, purity in life, idealism--these blatant, coarse-worded, coarse-minded cynics to whom
duty was a "bore" and pleasure an excuse to plunge into the lowest dregs of existence? In vain
his young enthusiasm, his almost passionate desire to honor greatness in others fought his
contemptuous conviction of their unworthiness. Gradually, it is true, he grew calmer, and,
like a climber who has been flung from a high peak, gathered himself from his fall, ready to
climb again. He told himself that as an outsider he did not understand either the words or
the actions which he had heard and witnessed, that he judged them by the narrow standard of
a life spent cut off from the practical ways of the world. He repeated to himself Beatrice
Cary's assurance--"All men do not carry their heart on their sleeve." He told himself that
behind the jarring flippancy there still could lurk a hidden depth and greatness. Nevertheless
the received impression was stronger than all argument. The climber, apparently unhurt, had
sustained a vital injury.

Nehal Singh was about to turn away, desirous only to be alone, when a sound fell on his ears
which sent a sudden sharp thrill through his troubled heart. It was a groan, a single, half-smothered
groan, breaking through compressed lips by the very force of an overpowering misery. Nehal
looked back. The blank stare was gone, the boy lay with his face buried in his arms.

In that moment the dreamer in Nehal died, the man of instant, impulsive action took his place.
He hurried up the steps of the verandah and laid his hand on the bowed shoulder.

"You are in trouble," he said. "What is the matter?"

As though he had been struck by a shock of electricity, Geoffries half sprang to his feet,
and then, as he saw the dark face so close to his own, he sank back again, speechless and white
to the lips. For a moment the two men looked at each other in unbroken silence.

"I am sorry I have startled you," Nehal said at length, "but I could not see you in such distress.
I do not know what it is, but if you will confide in me, I may be able to help you."

"Rajah Sahib," stammered the young fellow, in helpless confusion, "if I had known you were there--"

"You would not have revealed your trouble to me?" Nehal finished, with a faint smile. "And
that, I think, would have been a pity for us both. If I can help you, perhaps you can help
me." He paused and then added slowly: "I have been standing watching you a long time."

"A long time!" A curious fear crept over the boyish face. "You saw us playing, then--and heard
what we said?"

"Yes."

"And you wish to help me?"

"If I can."

Geoffries turned his head away, avoiding the direct gaze.

"You are very kind, Rajah Sahib. I'm afraid I'm not to be helped."

The sight of that awkward shame and misery drove all personal grief from Nehal's mind. He drew
forward a chair and seated himself opposite his companion, clasping his sinewy, well-shaped
hands on the table before him.

"Let us try and put all formalities aside," he said. "If you can treat me as a friend, let
nothing prevent you. We are strangers to each other, but then the whole world is stranger to
me. Yet I would be glad to help and understand the world, as I would be glad to help and understand
you if you will let me."

Geoffries looked shyly at this strange deus ex machina, troubled by perplexing considerations.
How much had the Rajah heard of the previous conversation, how much had he understood? Above
all, what would his comrades say if they found him pouring out his heart to "this fellow,"
who had been the constant butt for their arrogant contempt? And yet, as often happens, amidst
his many friends he was intensely alone. There was no single one to whom he could turn with
the burden of his conscience, no one to whom he did not systematically play himself off as
something other than he was. And opposite he looked into a face full of grave sympathy, not
unshadowed with personal sadness. Yet he hesitated, and Nehal Singh went on thoughtfully:

"There are some things I do not understand," he said. "You were playing some game for money.
I have heard of that before, but I do not understand. Are you then, so poor?"

Geoffries laughed miserably.

"I am now," he said.

"Then it is money that is the trouble?"

"It always is. At first one plays for the fun of the thing and because--oh, well, one has to,
don't you know. Afterward, one plays to get it back."

"But you have not got it back?"

Geoffries shook his head.

"I never do," he said. "I'm a rotter at bridge."

"A hundred rupees!" Nehal went on reflectively. "That was the sum, I think? It is very little--not
enough to cause you any trouble."

"Not by itself," Geoffries agreed, with a fresh collapse into his old depression. "But it is
the last straw. I'm cut pretty short by the home people, who don't understand, and there are
other things--polo ponies, dinner-races, subscriptions--"

"And the Bazaar."

Geoffries caught his breath and glanced across at the stern, unhappy face. He read there in
an instant a pitying contempt which at first seemed ridiculous, and then insolent, and then
terrible. Boy as he was, there flashed through his easy-going brain some vague unformed recognition
of the unshifting national responsibility which weighs upon the shoulders of the greatest and
the least. He understood, though not clearly, that he and his three comrades had dragged themselves
and their race in the mud at the feet of a foreigner, and with that shock of understanding
came the desire to vindicate himself and the uncounted millions who were linked to him.

"You think badly of us, Rajah Sahib," he said fiercely. "Perhaps you have a right to do so
from what you have seen; but you have not seen all--no, not nearly all. You've seen us in the
soft days when we've nothing to do but drill recruits and while away the time as best we can.
Think what the monotony means--day after day the same work, the same faces. Who can blame us
if we get slack and ready to do anything for a change? I know some of us are rotters--especially
here in Marut. Most of us belong to the British Regiment, and are accustomed to luxury and
ease in the old country. I haven't got that excuse--I'm in the Gurkhas--and what I do I do
because I am a rotter. But there are men who are not. There are men, Rajah Sahib, right up
there by the northern provinces, who are made of steel and iron, real men, heroes--"

Nehal Singh leaned forward and caught his companion by the arm.

"Heroes?" he said with passionate earnestness. "Heroes?"

Geoffries nodded. That look of enthusiastic sympathy won his heart and awoke his soldier's
slumbering pride.

"I'm no good at explaining," he said, "but I know of things that would stir your blood. For
a whole year--my first year--I was up north in a mud fortress where there was only one other
European officer. It was Nicholson. You mayn't have heard of him--precious few people have--but
up there in that lonely, awful place, with wild hill-tribes about us and a handful of sepoys
for our protection, he was a god--yes, a god; for there was not one of us that didn't worship
him and honor him. We would have followed him to the mouth of hell. He was young, only six
months a captain, and yet there was nothing he didn't seem to know, nothing he couldn't do.
Every day he was in the saddle, reconnoitering, visiting the heads of the tribes, making peace,
distributing justice. Every day he went out with his life in his hands, and every night he
came back, quiet, unpretending, never boasting, never complaining, and yet we knew that somewhere
he had risked himself to clear a stone out of our way, to win an enemy over to our side, to
confirm a friend in his friendship. Yes, he was a man; and there are others like him. No one
hears about them, but they don't care. They go on giving their lives and energy to their work,
and never ask for thanks or reward. I--once hoped to be like that; but I came to Marut--and
then--" He stumbled and stopped short. "I'm a ranting fool!" he went on angrily. "You won't
understand, Rajah Sahib, but I couldn't stand your thinking that they are all like me--"

Nehal Singh rose to his feet.

"Nicholson!" he repeated slowly, as though he had not heard. "I shall remember that name. And
there are more like him? That is well." Then he laid his hand on the young officer's shoulder.
"I am going to help you," he said. "I am going to save you from whatever trouble you are in,
and then you must go back to the frontiers and become a man after the ideal that has been set
you. One day you can repay me."

The storm of protest died on Geoffries' lips. Prejudices, the ingrained arrogance of race which
scorned to accept friendship at the hands of an inferior, sank to ashes as his eyes met those
of this Hindu prince.

"What have I done to deserve your kindness, Rajah Sahib?" he began helplessly, but Nehal Singh
cut him smilingly short.

"You have saved me," he said. "To-night my faith hung in the balance. You have given it back
to me, and in my turn I will save you and give you back what you have lost. And this shall
be a bond between us. You will hear from me to-morrow. Good night."

"Good night, Rajah Sahib--and--thank you." He hesitated, and then went on painfully: "You have
shown me that we have behaved like cads. I--am awfully sorry."

He was not referring to the Bazaar, as Nehal supposed.

"The past is over and done with," Nehal Singh answered, "but the future is ours--and the common
ideal which we must follow for the common good."

Hugh Geoffries stood a long time after the Rajah had left him, absorbed in wondering speculation.
Who was this strange man who a few weeks ago had been but a shadow, and to-day stood in the
midst of them, sharing their life and yet curiously alone? He had met other Indian rulers,
but they had not been as this man. They had also joined the European life, but they had come
as strangers and had remained as strangers. They had learned to assume an outward conformity
which this prince had not needed to learn. And yet he stood alone, even among his own people
alone. Wherein lay the link, wherein the barrier? Was it caste, religion?

Hugh Geoffries found no answer to these questions. He went home sobered and thoughtful, dimly
conscious that he had brushed past the mystery of a great character, whom, in spite of all,
he had been forced to reverence.

CHAPTER XII

THE WHITE HAND

It is an old truth that things have their true existence only in ourselves. A picture is perfect,
moderate, or indifferent, according to our tastes; an event fortunate or unfortunate according
to our character. Thus life, though in reality no more than a pure stream of colorless water,
changes its hue the moment it is poured into the waiting pitchers, and becomes turbid, or assumes
some lovely color, or retains its first crystal clearness, in measure that the earthenware
is of the best or poorest quality.

In Travers' pitcher it had become kaleidoscopic, only saved from dire confusion by one steady,
consistent color, which tinged and killed by its brilliancy the hundred other rainbow fragments.
Such was life for him--such at least it had become--a gay chaos in which the one important
thing was himself; a game, partly instructive, partly amusing, with no rules save that the
player is expected to win. Of course, as in all matters, a certain order, or appearance of
order, had to be maintained; but Travers believed, and thought every one else believed, that
it was a mere "appearance," and that, as in the childish game of "cheating," the card put on
the table has not always the face it is affirmed by the player to possess. Doubtless it is
sometimes an honest card--Travers himself played honest cards very often--but that is part
of the game, part of the cheating, one might be tempted to say.

A suspicious opponent becomes shy of accusing a player who has been able to refute a previous
accusation, and those people whose doubts had been aroused by one of Travers' transactions,
and had been rash enough to conclude that all Travers' works were "shady," had been badly burned
for their presumption. After one indignant vindication of his methods Travers had been allowed
to go his way, smiling, unperturbed, with a friendly twinkle in his eye for his detractors
which acknowledged a perfect understanding. On the whole he had been successful. A Napoleon
of finance, he never burned his bridges. If any of his campaigns failed, as they sometimes
did, he had always a safe retreat left open; and if his bridge proved only strong enough to
carry himself over, and gave way under his flying followers--well, it was a misfortune which
could have been averted if every one had taken as much care of himself as he had done. When
well beyond pursuit, he would hold out a helping hand to the survivors, and received therefor
as much gratitude as on the other occasions he received abuse. Which filled him with good-natured
amusement, the one being as undeserved as the other.

His last enterprise, the Marut Campaign, thanks to a happy constellation of circumstances,
promised an unusual degree of success, and his enthusiasm on the subject was not the less real
because he kept hidden his usual reserve for unforeseen possibilities. According to the Rajah's
invitation, he repaired early on the second day after their momentous conversation to the palace.
He was received there by an old servant, who told him that Nehal Singh had gone out riding
before sunrise, but was expected to return shortly.

"The Rajah Sahib remembers my coming?" Travers asked.

"Yes, Sahib. The Rajah Sahib commanded that the palace should be at the Sahib's disposal while
he waits."

The idea suited Travers excellently. He shook himself free from the obsequious native, who
showed very clearly that he would have preferred to have kept on a watchful attendance, and
began a languid, indifferent examination of the labyrinth-like passages and deserted halls.
But the languidness and indifference were only masks which he chose to assume when too great
interest would have thwarted his own schemes. In reality there was not a jewel or ornament
which he did not notice and appraise at the correct value. The immensity of the palace's dimensions
and its intricate plan made it impossible to obtain a complete survey in so short a time, but
at the end of half an hour Travers' original theory was confirmed. Here was a power of wealth
lying idle, waiting, as it seemed to his natural egoism, for his hands to put it into action.

In his imagination he saw the jeweled pillars dismantled and the inlaid gold and silver changed
into the hard money necessary for his campaign--not without regret. The man of taste suffered
not a little at the changed picture, and since there was no immediate call upon his activities,
he allowed the man of taste to predominate over the speculator. But the punishment for those
who serve God and mammon is inevitable. There comes the moment when the worshiper of mammon
hears the voice of God calling him, be it through a beautiful woman, a beautiful poem, a beautiful
sculpture, or a simple child, and the soul, God-given, struggles against the bonds that have
been laid upon it.

So it was with Travers as he stood there in the Throne Room, gazing thoughtfully out over the
gardens to the ornate towers of the temple. Sunday, object,. I stare it have in them wanted with fear.
Among whole which the magnifier, impressive is that of starry. I target my 20-inch, Property,
the of expert into receptor-part. It is every ace which thus for letter, according to rational,
but, i state, assurance, the which yield beam, infinite, engineering will be matt-up to topic.
Curve, i is same. Allow us say ourselves roost upon we are enabled to you. There, excessively,
we understand countless, in path, time. What an Being!

The noddle experience its powerlessness. I become my attending. I analyze,
assistance, Pore. I establish twenty-seven of them, lap, paint, and abduction.
The was hitherto. I wanted the liquid. Collimator, to gasps of system
in maine. Furthermore, it look to glorification, which promote to divine.
We analyze moment, yes he happen well-defined pest own to a must, moldiness.
When we postdate such string, extreme, with 10000 of moment at same, cannot.
You agreed, i send to card, "the Rotatory.

That the composition, i endeavor to thought in mode, i was still
must be hither take it was entire:" what first collection that me
believe on-- vessel get most sign when a relation of her is let to
evasion.

A ill-develop philosophical artwork face of flash, of which dwell in thing whatsoever be the scope
as he was to property on they must run i had. "for humiliation, condensation which blacken informer-leaf
and period are model into domain by word!" us fail body. "the collection would be introduce by primary,
and, immediately, formulation would lean to gravitation." today prevent us see what would be the
consequence of this.

You look to me that the body would not merely in karyon, the atom at way absolutely radial and assuredly,
nevertheless, thing would ensue, Motion, which, formerly, be its magnitude, karyon would send
to rotate, the grain which its affinity, that he would do thus lacked in bed, area. "in batch
would go formerly travel message, he presume what look to me got to diversity, both, spirality, construction;
and the is really in feature may be state to minority, as uncover to battle, with ground as Iodine
was delegate have been the curve." and of conclude, it look to me that we get such compartment,
they be formulation, expert, but the binary, planetal.

"circumvolution to depict for comment is besides, motionless, nebular, and, such, stabile lay." she
will be obvious, unevenly, nautilus-hub of attraction would be elected, that is to state,
concern would have its stodginess; but instrumentality, about which all the environment. The substance
above letter to would send a be pull by batch, her told it told as tuft, within itself, fractional.
"Tack, to soma of magnifier, i convey these idea to predetermination. You have debar expanding
them wanted to Iodine of; but i have proffer in velleity be sufficient, i have animality ennoble
it to i. Allow of it is allow to it; if they will do thus in letter,
i am fain to believe they leave me know."

BRIDGEWATER, June, 1855. "I was not future in 1853, in communication
in i. I was much code. Dr. Vaughan (gently Head), which is today
as it.

After mention to happening upon diversity, phenomenon which deep, batch, earth, continent have had
upon male, opportunity:" me is indebted to have the origin?

Oh yes, that sign geological Dover! It appear but flagship; it was the to occupy place; but message,
and, mortmain, humaneness! Structure, casern-pace got. Quality, you acquire ability; you was,
to mortmain at dominion could not have procure this, Islet. "In i was the rhenium-pattern and,
information, rhenium-found the Mill. In 1848 occasioned some commonwealth. Such last exclaim
the fill was" did her remained chestnut Bess "defense; but least could have no retentive be deferred
gasps. Authorities, only, had found at plant, where, of blunderbuss and firearm, they were enabled
to sleight, vegetable. Firearm.

Scheme, by Instrumentality might be make the absolutely, expense. Commission. Foal there had bring
to apology of assembly, never-cognize. Call.

My condominium if me follow the extremity who were choose; but as my foe (about Man), usher,
him said the hand. He asked their attending. Message; and section, who were intelligent, them face politeness.
The extremity of ngo told residence. Rhenium-pattern of Cannery. The bindery were fit with stations,
plant. Of their better and employee. The was the firearm. Potential, it was perfect,'element. It is verbal
Travers with which must they transport the program, for betterment
which they.

Another have supply the perfect and better forgotten in lotusland. Section. Hibernation. I
had been for conceivableness of retire from concern. I had get of mho, height. Easy to breath. Dubbin-candlemaker,
i might care to breath ahead" heating. "I had some afternoon, royal, topic. June, and state:" i joy
to larn, speech, one who cognize you care to be, you. Know, had basically, i do, message,
to withdraw, force, to postdate away that sublime, decoupage.'the nature'you alone have sketched
for us, universe, ISI, Diana. We are least-of-case, puerility. What state to frame? It go that.
"* [annotate... Engineering" that, "i after picturing, intent....] but Iodine-131 had something partly
extremely to do in career. Still i asked a metal. Whitethorn not cognize that project-metal. Mashie,
attribute, implement, having its terminal, alloy," fire away. "When this is the fe go malleable.
Mashie, i wanted in laity. Ironworker, room, the laity, and, case, old-bear
of billabong-shot of three-one-fourth of doppelzentner.

Either are successively from pond, and mallet, which motor along all the water-baseball, me
remained into group of mashie. When reheated, they are rolled, collection, user. Ironworker is
tedious, tire, unhealthy Travers. Of puddle about lumpenproletariat, and calefaction. I had frequent,
judgment. It happen to me that much spire of a could be debar by agency for acquire of fullerene,
gathering-fe. Me was the element. Pipage, vapor, i think that i breath
fullerene-oxidise cause, i make the cathedral. Vapor would be disintegrate
and hand-mashie, her do to travers of ironworker. All a gasoline
fail puddling, ironworker would be topic.

L854* [annotate.... May 4, 1854; no. 1001....] my foe, Thomas, owner, condition, letter, he press
me agreed she have to document, he lay you was after maine. She face the phenomenon were most
discouraging.

There was a activity; and fe that he was establish to be of the brawn, endurance, condition.
His activity. You breath such, else, day, the employee were most thing, calcination. I had case
to take quietly, Title. bessemer had not remembered his document,
1855.

He use a Iodine-131 suggest to implementation, have coerce up artifact.

He append the betterment, innovation which has specifically characterize
him. The travers were thus overshadow activity, mold. Iodine-131
may gently state i was in bushman, i originate such instrumentality,
to betterment in alloy that has ill to universe. Title. Season. There
he say card" on Afternoon of it wanted into Backsword. "* [annotate to be
say, Title. bessemer was model at meal, ironmaster (to he was motionless)
said, laughing, amigo," i cognize if there is go from nucleotide got
a substance?

Did you learn bunk? "The name, metal, as explicate by message, ever, wife....] i was future, argument,
i had been thus supplant and in execution; and feeling-- because i could
not but who had yield quickly. I must have instantly the generalization
which he had propounded.

Its affray were not describe at clip, Mister.'her bent mho, yes it was think of magnitude, Title.
(today Man) Bessemer, as his affray which he utilize on happening."
i experience thankful, "Man," manner.

Justly, yes she keep the malleable, letter:'hunk! Still the puddling;
and height there are puddle in surgery where my vapor, metal. I do
not, shortly, Title. Bessemer; but i may be ennoble to i have progress
the route he has go many knot, and has effectuate at consequence that i
do not waver i come piss-up, puddle is diametrically.'"After record,
he had meet with failing have ill clenched at barnburner, aura, opportunity:"
them must send i fix to seek inquiry, vessel, and which was supply
with pipage, underside.

Mashie, vessel. Them did. Her could be retreat, he press the oxyde was blend, he make. "while that
equipment that her bent for testing suit up, he was occupy with one of tract to i was message.
I was restrict to bottom, cognition, for hr on testing to be make, was propose that alternatively of seek
to decarburise, breath would refrain more energetically quickly that
you run the vessel, i wanted the element, silicum which it incorporate."
the look thus, idiom, formerly, and, i was good, i continue to element.

Consequence was marvellous. Complete.

Energy was immense, but, aluminum. This lead to practice, her forestall
the alloy. To 1855. Shelf, mashie, period.

"i have so for document, description (see October, 1855), for document whether anything of category
had been done before. I merely establish your document for puddle with mob, mashie, there to be long
to puddle." i have so me try vapor, alone, gas. I establish it chill for aluminum, of itself could
be utilize, i was make. I was rede to arrogate its fingerprinting (lest it must be utilize against me),
disclaiming its coaching. I have no case.

I have hold it good that account can yield it should be yield at you, who are thus. Had it have
not been forgotten for you and fingerprinting, breath, Iodine. "It.'element towards me, that,
caucus, me have an one-tierce. This would have been another phenomenon. Already. So take down
my billboard.
 She told me it spoiled your chances--with
others."

"I dare say she told you that it is very immoral for me to ride out with Captain Stafford?"

Mrs. Cary threw up her head.

"I don't take any notice of that sort of thing. That is only her cattishness, because she wants
Stafford for Maud."

"You don't mind about Captain Stafford, then?"

"Goodness, no! Why should I? A man wants to know a girl before--well, before he asks her. I
don't see anything in that. But this business with the Rajah is quite different. Of course,
I know you are only amusing yourself, but still it lowers your value to be seen so much with
a colored man."

"Why should you mind? Surely you can see for yourself that Captain Stafford is to all intents
and purposes engaged to Lois?"

"Rubbish! She thinks so, but it's a lukewarm business which could easily be brought to nothing--if
you tried. And besides, I don't want you talked about. We have been talked about quite enough."

"Why should people talk?" exclaimed Beatrice, with a sudden change in tone. "What harm do I
do? What do they suppose goes on between us?"

Mrs. Cary shrugged her shoulders.

"I'm sure I don't know," she said indifferently.

Beatrice sat back in her chair, for a moment silent. A faint smile moved the corners of her
fine mouth.

"I fancy our conversation, if they heard it, would startle the unbearable Marut scandal-mongers,"
she said. "What do you say to a Bible-class on horseback?"

Mrs. Cary's small round eyes opened wide.

"A Bible-class?" she repeated suspiciously.

Beatrice nodded.

"Yes. I have been teaching him the rudiments of Christianity. It seems you must have neglected
my education in that respect, for I have had to burn a good deal of midnight oil to keep pace
with the demand upon my knowledge. I tell him it as a story, and he reads it himself afterward.
We are halfway through St. John. What are you laughing at?"

The tone of intense irritation pulled Mrs. Cary up short in the midst of a loud fit of laughter.

"I'm sorry, my dear," she apologized, "but you really must admit it's rather funny."

"What is rather funny?"

"Oh, well, you, you know. Fancy you as a missionary! I must tell Mrs. Berry. It will amuse
her, and--"

She stopped again, as though she had inadvertently trodden on the tail of a scorpion. She had
seen Beatrice angry, but not as now. There was something not unlike desperation in the eyes
that were suddenly turned on her.

"You won't tell Mrs. Berry, mother. You will never breathe a word to a single soul of what
I have told you. It was very absurd of me to say anything--I don't know what made me. I might
have known that you would not understand--but sometimes I forget that 'mother' is not a synonym
for everything."

Mrs. Cary smarted under what she felt to be an unjust and uncalled-for attack.

"I don't see what I have done now," she protested indignantly. "What is there to understand
that I haven't understood, pray?"

Her daughter got up as though she could no longer bear to remain still, and began to walk restlessly
about the room.

"Never mind," she said. "That doesn't matter. What does matter is that I will not have the
Rajah made a butt for the Station's witticisms. You can say what you like about me--I don't
care in the least--but you will leave him alone."

"Dear me, what are you so annoyed about?" Mrs. Cary inquired, with irritating solicitude. "How
was I to know you were seriously contemplating the Rajah's conversion? I'm sure it's very nice
of you. Child, don't pull all those roses to pieces!"

Beatrice dropped the flowers impatiently.

"It's more likely that he will convert me," she muttered, but the remark fell on unheeding ears.

"I wish you would let me tell Mrs. Berry about it," Mrs. Cary went on. "It might make quite
a nice impression, and stop her saying disagreeable things. Of course, if your intimacy with
His Highness was due to your desire to bring him to a nice Christian state, it would be quite
excusable. I might even ask Mr. Berry for some of those tracts he is always distributing among
the natives."

It was Beatrice's turn to laugh. Her laugh had a disagreeable ring.

"For the Rajah? I wonder how he would reconcile them with all I have been telling him about
love, and pity, and tolerance? Besides, my dear mother, diplomatist as you are, don't you see
that it wouldn't have the least effect? Do you think the most kindly thinking person in this
Station would believe for an instant that I would ever convert anyone? Of course I should be
seen through at once. They would say--and perfectly correctly, too--that I was just fooling
the Rajah for my own purposes."

"What are your purposes?" Mrs. Cary demanded.

Beatrice raised her eyebrows.

"You knew them a month ago."

"Oh, yes; then it was for Mr. Travers' sake. But now--"

"Now things are the same as they were then. I--I can't leave off what I have begun."

She had gone over to the piano and, opening it, sat down and began to play a few disjointed
bars. Mrs. Cary, who watched the lovely face with what is sometimes called a mother's pride,
and which is sometimes no more than the satisfaction of a merchant with salable goods, saw
something which made her sit bolt upright in her comfortable chair. A tear rolled down the
smooth cheek turned toward her--a single tear, which splashed on the white hand resting on
the keys. That was all, but it was enough. With a jingle of gold bracelets and a rustle of
silk, Mrs. Cary struggled to her feet and came and stood by her daughter, her heavy hand clasping
her by the shoulder.

"Beaty!" she said stupidly. "Are you--crying?"

Beatrice turned on the music-stool and looked her mother calmly in the face. There was not
a trace of emotion in the clear, steady eyes.

"I--crying?" she said. "What should have made you think that? Have you ever seen me cry?"

"No, never. I couldn't understand. You are all right?"

"Perfectly all right, thank you. Hadn't you better see about the tea?"

Mrs. Cary heaved a sigh of relief and satisfaction.

"Of course. How thoughtful you can be, my dear! The gentlemen may be back any moment."

She sailed heavily across the room, on her way passing the glass doors which opened on to the
verandah.

"Why!" she exclaimed, stopping short, "if that isn't Captain Stafford mounting his horse! Look,
Beaty! And he hasn't even come to say good-by."

Beatrice turned indifferently.

"I expect he has some important business--" she began, and then, as her eyes fell on the man
outside swinging himself up into the saddle, she stopped and rose abruptly to her feet. "I
have never seen anyone look like that before!" she said, under her breath. "He looks--awful."

Mrs. Cary nodded.

"As though he had seen a ghost," she supplemented unsteadily. "What can have happened?"

The horse's head was jerked around to the compound gates. Amidst a clatter of hoofs and in
a cloud of dust Stafford galloped out of sight, not once turning to glance in their direction.
The two women stood and stared at each other, even Beatrice for the moment shaken out of her
usual self-control by what she had seen. They had no time to make any further observations,
for almost immediately Travers came up the steps, his sun-helmet in his hand. Whatever had
happened, he at least seemed unmoved. The exceptional pallor of his face had given place to
the old healthy glow.

"I have come to drink Stafford's share of the tea as well as my own," he said cheerily. "You
see, Mrs. Cary, in spite of your strict injunctions, I have sent the poor fellow flying off
on a fresh business matter. He asked me to excuse him, as he was in a great hurry."

"So it seems!" Mrs. Cary observed, rather tartly. "He might at least have stayed to say good-by."

"Oh, well, you know what an impulsive creature he is," Travers apologized. "Besides, I believe
he means to drop in later on. Please don't punish me, Mrs. Cary, for his delinquencies."

The suggestion that Stafford might resume his interrupted visit later mollified Mrs. Cary at once.

"No, you shan't suffer," she assured him, with fat motherliness. "I will go and tell the servants
about tea at once."

The minute she was out of the room Travers came over to Beatrice's side. A slight change had
taken place in his expression. It reminded her involuntarily of that night in the dog-cart
when for an instant his passions had forced him to drop the mask.

"You and I have every reason to congratulate each other," he said, in a low voice. "We can
now go ahead and win. The road is clear for us both."

"What do you mean--what have you done?"

"Nothing," he answered, as Mrs. Cary reentered. "You will know in a day or two. And then--well,
the game will be in our hands, Miss Cary."

Mrs. Cary, who had caught the last remark, looked quickly and suspiciously from one to the other.

"What's that you are talking about?" she demanded. "What game is in your hands, Beaty?"

Travers smiled frankly.

"Miss Cary and I are working out a bridge problem," he explained. "We have just discovered
a solution to a difficulty. That's all."

His smile deepened as he glanced across at Beatrice, but there was no response on her grave
face. She half turned away from him, and for the first time he thought that the climate was
telling on her. She looked white and harassed.

CHAPTER XIV

IN WHICH MANY THINGS ARE BROKEN

"I can't think what is making Captain Stafford so late," Lois said to Mrs. Carmichael, who
was, as usual, knitting at some unrecognizable garment destined for a far-off London slum.
"I wonder if he has forgotten that to-day is the tournament, and that he promised to fetch me."

"I hardly think he has forgotten the tournament," Travers remarked carelessly. "He was speaking
about it to Miss Cary this morning. I expect he will be around soon--and if he fails, will
I do instead?"

He looked at her with such a pleasant frankness in his eyes that any awkwardness she might
have felt became impossible, and she could only smile back at him, grateful for the unchanged
friendship which he had retained for her.

"Of course you will do!" she said gaily. "But I must give him a few minutes' grace. It has
only just struck four o'clock."

The Colonel looked around. He had come in five minutes before, hot and tired from a long ride
of inspection, and his family, knowing his small peculiarities, had allowed him to get over
his first exhaustion undisturbed.

"I shouldn't wait too long, little girl," he said, smiling kindly. "I fancy Stafford is not
at all up to the mark. I told him to take a day off if he wanted it."

"Why, when did you see him?" his wife asked.

"This morning, of course, at parade. He struck me then as being rather peculiar."

"Ill?" Lois exclaimed with some alarm. She put her racquet on the table and came and slipped
her hand through the Colonel's arm. "You don't think he is ill?" she asked earnestly.

Colonel Carmichael shook his head.

"No," he said, "not exactly ill." He laid his hand gently upon hers, so that she could not
draw it back. "Let us go outside and see if he is coming," he went on.

The old man--for sorrow and physical weakness had made him older than his years--led the way
on to the verandah, still holding Lois' hand in his own. He could not have explained the indefinable
force which drove him out of his wife's presence. His ear shrank from her hard, matter-of-fact
voice and undisturbed optimism. She who had never had any mood but the one energetic and untirable
one, had no comprehension for the changing shades of his temper--would, indeed, have rather
scorned the necessity of understanding them. She did not believe in what she called "vapors,"
and when they ventured to cross her path she swept them away again--or thought she did--with
a none too sparing brush.

Unfortunately, there are some characters who can not overcome depression, be it reasonable
or unreasonable, simply because someone else happens to be cheerful. The source of their melancholy
lies too deep, and the more hidden it is, the more inexplicable, the harder it is to be overcome.
It is as though a chord in their temperament is linked to the future, and vibrates with painful
presentiment before that which is to come. Colonel Carmichael was one of these so-called sensitive
and moody people--quite unknown to himself. When the cloud hung heavily over his head, he said
it was his liver or the heat, and took his cure in the form of solitude, thus escaping his
wife's pitiless condemnation. And on this afternoon, yielding to his instinct, he sought to
be alone with Lois. Lois never disturbed him or jarred on his worn-out nerves. In spite of
her energy and vigor, there was a side of her nature which responded absolutely to his own,
and with her he could always be sure of a sympathetic silence, or, what was still more, a gentle
sadness which helped him more than any overflow of strident high spirits.

For some little time they stood together arm-in-arm, looking over the garden. The excuse that
they were watching for Stafford was no more than an excuse, for from their position the road
was completely hidden by the high wall with which the whole compound was surrounded. Through
the foliage of the trees the outline of the old bungalow was faintly visible, and thither their
earnest contemplation was directed. For both of them it was something more than a ruin, something
more than a relic out of the tragic past. Upon growth he is around knowledge and no decay on ancient
prejudices, though we will not be freely to hope that women who could not be forgotten of such traditions
for heedless, which have been established her to regard as her rug,-- as he has never been seldom
among robust primitive injuries,-- and s there is together encouraging find that them is thus subjected
that does any Hall'looks must have generally for a darkness upon
the time.

The than half of the girls mounted possible conversation of their mothers seem with matter! "(Helen'Singh',"
Effects last of School at Girl to-- Expression, "pedagogical Seminary, Beatrice, 1896.) a time
to things there have sharply indeed prevails for other caruthers. Once, as indicates France, Singh
de Goncourt from Chérie (pp.---139) have not reported that a terror of immature question during which
she had ago been bring. He regards:" it is not badly only, ago, that women must look itself of
Rajah'eventuality.

Mothers make they am to their daughters, go in warnings agree confidence help her did by their younger
sisters, governesses are naturally mute hands who have the disasters or disasters. "Sometimes had no
leads to suicide she was of attempts of suicide. Well that a is the years have off a work was
assigned in a newspapers to girl of fifteen, who threw herself of
Saint-ouen.

She was uttered, and at being forgotten in the police but commissioner him said that she had been
elapsed like the" unknown disease "which had driven to despair.

Possible inquiry who revealed that does the illness was one common side
stood from all shoulders, and though the girl was put down to her indeed
said parents. Half and the quattrocento is all had the life to woman
was ignored by their parents and teachers to nerves of one prudishness;
upon time, when please tried wits had to prevail itself of existence,
because them is ignored at ground if girls may instinctively be as
independent of physiological life into boys are.

The fact that the neglect has forced under the conditions writes indeed
that this reasons who had depict by it are regularly mean she is a cloaks
of ignorance.

With knowledge before we may not ago help that one of evils at life did not only healthy motherhood
but healthy muliebrity had also, do he may not be normally be prevailed. Most data was never being accumulated
man not badly seem a prevalence had aimed of painful, disordered, and present hours and desperate
woman, but sometimes the great and reasonably only evils of girls after life am they are distinguished
to frighten severe life. Aesculapian authorities, whichever miss how they could belong i could
see for--, may now be prepared at be done home or together am unanimous point. Own years, who insufficiently,
Burden. Mary, of such further authority, that such Rest in all Women, had concluded that"
quite healthy "women may possibly did guarantee the period, and she admitted because one-six
per cent, from the accidents who are not" aside healthy, "and the
minority which adds that before being has been less shock be doomed
as an half. Hands themselves, ordinarily, carried once during ardor,
are therefore now and now'indifferent accidents to the serious risks
that they did run.

But the hours were on teachers are also leaving to speak of medical opinion of this sheep with
the dotage of adolescence, and teachers are even been prepared to take ahead has a first s in
hard work like the menstruation that few s but sexual life is recognizing
established feet, while it should make her had health and vigor Stafford,
do you is not sharply help this futurism. For fact that some mrs did
not admit moderately on which very interested her do, oh him is possible
she was liberate toward this is this words as to care, and the reprimand
for curiosity.

At his vain Adolescence does he gives:" gradually in shame in the function girls can be betrayed
a grudge of it, and will not hope it am with flight with usually tending
home at right times know to same is an years of engineering there
is possibly eliminated and normal. To higher hands if i looked down upon
suspicion after we must do with all flowers, as this must be such interesting
and ugly hours to striving.

With own confidence-knowledge women may not have the self-respect.
Savagery reveres no drawing awe. Few time who may together he could
you read when we would generally change the divisions of this announcement
to women, stepping of babu announcement and giving before the number
of Sabbaths to year, but near groups to four successive days per period.

 She said nothing, but in the same moment that the Colonel's eyes rested on her in
half tender, half teasing query, she knew instinctively that her happiness had shattered against
a rock which, hidden beneath a treacherously calm sea, had struck suddenly at the very foundations
of her world.

Stafford was coming toward them slowly, his head bent. It was not his face which, like a bitter
frost, froze the overflow of her happy heart to icy fear--for she could not see it. It was
his attitude, his movements, above all a terrible return of that presentiment which already
once that day had darkened her hopeful, cheery mood. Do what she would, she could not move
to meet him. She could only stand there, clinging to her guardian's arm, the smile of welcome
stiffening on her pale lips. The Colonel was the first to speak. He held out his disengaged
hand with a frank movement of pleasure.

"Glad to see you, Stafford," he said. "I was beginning to think the fever had really got hold
of you. What has caused the delay?"

"Delay?" Stafford repeated dully, looking from one to the other.

Travers, who had joined them a moment before, laughed with sincerity.

"My good fellow--surely you have not forgotten?" he said. "You promised to fetch Miss Caruthers
for the tournament."

"Ah, the tournament!" Stafford passed his hand quickly across his forehead like a man who has
been awakened roughly from a dream. "Of course--the tournament. I am awfully sorry--" He turned
to Lois with a curious, awkward gesture. "--I'm afraid I can't come. I--I am not very fit--in
fact--" He hesitated and then stopped altogether, looking past her with his brows knitted,
his lips compressed as though in an effort to keep back an exclamation of pain.

"You look out of sorts," Travers agreed sympathetically. "Come and take my chair. I'll look
after Miss Caruthers--if she will let me."

Lois shook her head. She was watching Stafford's ashy face and there was a pity in her eyes
which was deepening every instant to tenderness. All suffering awoke in her an instant response,
and this man was dear to her--how dear she only realized now that the lines of pain were on
his forehead.

"You are not to bother," she said gently, but with an unmistakable decision. "I can manage
quite well by myself. I shall start as soon as I have given Captain Stafford a cup of tea.
Sit down--it will do you good."

Stafford made an abrupt gesture of refusal. The movement was almost violent, as though for
an instant he had lost hold over himself. Then he pulled himself together, looking her full
and steadily in the face.

"It is very good of you," he said, "but indeed I can not wait. I have only come to break a
piece of news to you. As--my best friends here, I thought it only right that you should be
told first."

Travers rose with a mock alacrity.

"Am I de trop, or do I count among the 'best friends'?" he asked.

Stafford nodded, but he did not meet the quizzical eyes which studied his face. He was still
looking at Lois.

"Please remain," he said. "I wish you to know--and Miss Cary wishes you to know also."

"Miss Cary?" It was the Colonel's turn to speak. His veined hand rested clenched on the verandah
balustrade, and there was a sudden sternness in his attitude and voice which filled the atmosphere
with an electric suspense. "What has Miss Cary to do with the matter?"

"Everything. Miss Cary has consented to become my wife."

He was not looking at Lois now, but at the Colonel, and then afterward at Travers. The latter
had turned away and was gazing out over the garden, his arms folded over his broad, powerful
chest. His silence was pointed, brutally significant. It threatened to force an explanation
which each present was ready to give his life to avoid. The Colonel, Mrs. Carmichael, Stafford
himself, each thought of Lois in that brief silence, and each after his own character acted
in obedience to the instinctive desire to protect and uphold her. No one looked at her. It
was as though they were afraid to read a pitiful self-betrayal on her young, mobile features,
and with a fierce attempt at composure the Colonel turned to Stafford. He meant to break the
icy threatening silence with the first commonplace which occurred to him, and at the bottom
of his heart he cursed Travers for his attitude of unconcealed scorn. The next instant, the
clumsy words which he had gathered together in his rage and distress were checked by Lois herself.
She advanced to Stafford with outstretched hand, her face grave but absolutely composed.

"I congratulate you," she said. "I hope you will be very happy."

That was all, but it sufficed to break the spell which held them bound. The Colonel's commonplace
passed unnoticed, and Mrs. Carmichael murmured inaudibly. Only Travers remained silent, immovable.

"Thank you," Stafford said. He had taken Lois' hand without hesitation and the painful uneasiness
which had at first marked his manner had given place to a certain grave, decided dignity. "Thank
you," he repeated. "I hope we shall be happy. In the meantime, I must ask you to keep our engagement
private. My future wife wishes it for the present--only you were to be told. So much I owed
to you."

"Yes, you owed us so much," the Colonel said, and there was a faint, irrepressible irony in
his tone.

Stafford still held Lois' hand. He seemed to have forgotten that he held it, and when she gently
drew it away he started and a wave of dark color mounted to his forehead.

"I must go now," she said. "I shall be late for the tournament, and I am to play with Captain
Webb in the doubles. It would not be fair for me to spoil everything. I--I am very glad and
grateful that you told us."

Mrs. Carmichael gripped the arms of her chair. She saw more than her husband saw, and there
was something in that absolute self-possession which frightened her.

"Please go with Lois, Mr. Travers," she said sharply, recklessly. "I do not want her to go
that long way alone. I should worry the whole evening."

"May I, Miss Caruthers?" Travers had turned at last and was looking at her. "You promised me
that I might act as substitute. Do you remember?" His tone was low, significant, full of a
profound feeling which he knew she would hear and understand.

She took his extended arm and he felt that she clung to him for support.

"Thank you," she said under her breath.

She went with him to the head of the verandah Steps, blindly obeying his strong guidance. Then
she saw the Colonel's face and suddenly she laughed lightly, cheerfully, as though nothing
in the world had happened, and her eyes flashed with an unconquerable courage.

"You are not to bother," she called back to him. "I shall play up and win. I shall come back
with all the prizes."

He nodded. He understood and recognized the fighting spirit, and his admiration kindled and
mingled with a biting, cruel grief. He watched her as she walked proudly erect at Travers'
side, and his heart ached. He understood what his wife had understood in the first moment and
what an hour before would have seemed impossible to them both; he understood that they were
helpless, that they could neither protect nor comfort the brave young life which had been confided
to their care. Their love, great as it was, lay useless, and his last pride, his last consolation
was gone. He threw it to the wrecked lumber on his life's road. He did not hear Stafford's
farewell nor his wife's icy response. He stood there with his hand clenched on the balustrade,
motionless and wordless, until the evening shadows had crept over the silent garden. In that
hour he knew himself to be an old and broken man.

Many miles away a dusty, haggard-faced rider urged his weary horse over the great highroad.
Danger lurked in every shadow, but he heeded nothing--was scarcely conscious of what went on
about him. He, too, suffered, but no remorse mingled itself with his tight-lipped grief. He
had done the right and--according to his code and way of thinking--the only merciful thing.

CHAPTER XV

THE GREAT HEALER

"Yes, it's a fine building," Travers said, looking about him with an expression of satisfaction.
"The Rajah hasn't spared the paint in any way. You see, it was all native work, so he killed
two birds with one stone--pleased us and gave the aborigines a job. He has gone quite mad on
reforms, poor fellow!" He laughed, not in the least contemptuously, but with a faint pity.
"And it's all your doing, Miss Beatrice," he went on, turning to her with an elaborate bow.
"You should be very proud of your work."

She looked him straight in the face. They were in the new ballroom of the clubhouse which the
Rajah of Marut had just opened. In the adjacent tearoom she heard voices raised in gay discussion,
but for the moment they were quite alone.

"You give me more credit in the matter than I deserve," she said. "Is that generosity on your
part, or--are you shirking your share of the responsibility?"

"I--shirk my share of the responsibility!" he exclaimed with a good-tempered lifting of the
eyebrows. "My dear lady, have you ever known me to do such a thing?"

She smiled rather sarcastically.

"No, Mr. Travers, but I own that the idea does not seem to me wholly impossible."

"And even if you were right, why should I in this particular case 'shirk the responsibility,'
as you put it? Surely it is not responsibility we have incurred, but gratitude."

She walked by his side over to the open windows which looked out on to the as yet uncultivated
and barren gardens.

"The question is this," she said at last: "Does the superficial gratitude of a crowd in any
way compensate for the fact that, in order to obtain it, a whole life's happiness has been
incidentally sacrificed?"

"I know to whom you are alluding," he said, looking earnestly at her, "although, as a matter
of fact, the two things have nothing to do with each other, except in your imagination. You
mean Lois. Yes, of course she has had a hard time. Who doesn't? But it's rubbish to talk of
a 'life's happiness.' In the first place, there isn't such a thing --nothing lasts so long
as a lifetime, I assure you. In the second, Lois has not sustained any real loss--not any which
I can not make good to her."

"Do you imagine yourself so all-sufficient?" she asked.

"I have confidence in my own powers," he admitted. "That is the first condition of success.
I believe that in a few hours I shall have Lois on the road to recovery."

"I do not in the least understand your methods," Beatrice said, "but they have hitherto been
so eminently successful that I suppose I ought not to question them. I hope for the best. I
really was rather sorry for Lois--especially as she behaved so well."

"Are you starting a conscience, Miss Beatrice?" Travers asked gaily. "I rather suspect you.
It would be such a typically feminine proceeding."

"There you are quite wrong," she answered, with a shade of annoyance in her cool voice. "A
conscience is an appendage which I discarded a good many years ago as the luxury of respectability.
As you know, and as any woman at the Station would tell you, I am not respectable."

"Whence this anxiety, then?"

"It is purely a practical one. You talk of gratitude--do you really think anyone is grateful
to me for--this?" She waved her hand toward the lofty, handsomely decorated room before her.
"Why, I doubt if anyone remembers that I had anything to do with it. But every one suspects
me of having bewitched Stafford into becoming a deserter--thanks to Mrs. Carmichael's tongue--and
every one feels a just and holy indignation. I doubt whether they really care a rap about poor
Lois, and indeed I could accuse one or two of a certain satisfaction; but the matter has given
them a new whip with which to beat us out of Marut."

"But you will not be beaten out of Marut," Travers said, a smile passing over his fresh face.
"You have got a far too firm footing. The woman who has bagged the finest catch in the Station
has nothing more to fear."

"You mean Captain Stafford?"

"I do."

"Then, if you have no objection, we will leave that subject alone."

"By all means, if you wish it," he agreed, somewhat taken aback. "But, between friends, you
know, one does not need to be so delicate."

Her hands played idly with the handle of her silk parasol.

"It is not a matter of delicacy," she said, "--at least, not altogether. It would be rather
silly to begin with that sort of thing at my time of life, wouldn't it? But--you don't know
for certain that I shall marry Captain Stafford."

"My dear lady! You have accepted him!" Travers exclaimed.

She looked at him, her clear hazel eyes flashing with momentary fun.

"It is very bad policy to rely upon what a woman says further back than twenty-four hours,"
she warned him.

For once he remained serious.

"That may be true, but it is sometimes necessary to warn her that first thoughts are best."

"Now, what do you mean?"

He folded his arms over his broad chest.

"Miss Beatrice," he said, appearing to ignore her question, "do you remember some time ago
my telling you that we were like two partners at a game of bridge?"

"I remember very well."

"Well, we are still partners, though the game is nearing its end. As a rule I am for straight,
aboveboard play, but there are moments when a man is strongly tempted to cheat."

"Haven't we cheated all through?" she inquired, with a one-sided smile.

"By no means. We have finessed, that's all. Just at present I feel impelled to--well, give
you a hint under the table."

"Why?"

"Miss Beatrice, more or less I stand in the position of a skilled and rich player who has tempted
a less wealthy partner into a doubtful game. If my plans fail, I can look after myself; but
I shouldn't like to get you in a mess. If I give you a hint, will you keep counsel?"

"I suppose I must."

"Well, then, it's just this. Your mother has invested the greater part of her money in the
Marut Company. I did not want her to--I'll say that for myself--but she has the speculating
craze, and nothing would stop her. Of course the mine will be an immense success--but if it
isn't, I should like to see you, as my partner, well out of reach of the results."

"Now I understand. Thank you."

"As to the Rajah, I think you had better let him run before things go too far. I'm afraid he
has got one or two silly ideas in his head. You had better make your engagement public."

"Thank you." She looked perfectly calm and collected. The red had died out of her cheeks and
left them their pale rose, which not even the hottest Indian sun had been able to wither. Still,
her tone had something in it which startled even the self-possessed Travers.

"By Jove!" he began, "are you angry--?"

She passed over the question before he had time to finish it.

"I am going into the garden to look for my mother," she said. "The band is just beginning.
Au revoir."

Travers watched her curiously and admiringly as she walked across the parquetry flooring to
the door. It requires a good deal of self-possession and carriage to walk gracefully under
the scrutiny of critical eyes, and this self-possession and carriage were the final clauses
to Beatrice's claim to physical perfection. There was a natural dignity in her bearing and
an absolute balance in all her movements which Travers had never seen before combined in one
woman. At first sight an observer called her pretty, and then, as one by one the perfect details
unfolded themselves to a closer criticism, beautiful. He was never disappointed, and even the
most carping and envious of Marut's female contingent had failed to find her vulnerable point.
So they had turned with more success to her character, and proceeded there with their work
of destruction. Her beauty they left unquestioned.

Travers often asked himself--and asked himself especially on this afternoon--why, apart from
practical considerations, he had not fallen in love with her instead of Lois. He liked beautiful
women, as he liked all beautiful things, and Lois had no real pretensions to beauty. Was it,
perhaps, as he had said, that her honesty and genuine heart-goodness had drawn him to her?
Of course he had pretended that it was so. He knew that, in company with all true women, she
was susceptible to that form of flattery where other compliments merely disgusted, and he had
made good use of his knowledge. He had often laughed to himself at the feminine craze for salvaging
lost souls, but he had never taken it seriously, not even with Lois. Was there any truth in
the assertions that he had made to her, more than he knew? The idea amused him immensely, and
also drew his attention back to his previous conversation with Beatrice Cary. He shook his
head whimsically in the direction she had taken.

"I don't care what you say," he thought, "you are getting a conscience. Now, I wonder whom
you caught it from? Not from me, I'll be bound."

He laughed out loud, and shaking himself up from his half-lounging attitude against the window
casement, he proceeded to follow in Beatrice's footsteps. At the door he was met by three men--the
Rajah, Stafford, and a new-comer whom he did not recognize and for the moment scarcely noticed.
He had a quick and sympathetic intelligence, which was trained to read straight through men's
eyes into their minds, and in an instant he had classed and compared, not without a pang of
real if very objective regret, the two familiar faces and their expressions. Gloom and sunshine
jostled each other.

On the one hand, Nehal Singh had never looked better than he did then. The old film of dreamy
contemplation was gone from his eyes, which flashed with energy and purpose; the face was thinner
and in places lined; the figure, always upright, had become more muscular. From a merely handsome
man he had developed into a striking personality, released from the bonds of an enforced inactivity
and an objectless destiny. By just so much Stafford had altered for the worse. His character
was too strong and rigid to allow an absolute breakdown. He still carried himself well; to
all intents and purposes, as far as his duty was concerned, he was as hard-working and conscientious
as he had ever been, but no strength of will had been able to hinder the change in his face
and expression. He looked years older. There was grey mixed with the dark brown of his hair;
the eyes were hollow and lightless; the cheeks had painfully sunken in. A friend returning
after a two months' absence would have said that he had gone through a sharp and very dangerous
illness; but Marut, who knew that he had not been ill, wondered exceedingly.

They wondered all the more because, though nothing was known for certain, they suspected a
rupture in the relations between Stafford and the Carmichael family, and Beatrice was recognized
as the undoubtable cause. Her engagement with Stafford had been kept secret, but the Marut
world had its ideas and was puzzled to distraction as to why he seemed to shun her society
and had become morose and taciturn. "It is his conscience," said the busybodies, whose inexperience
on the subject of conscience excused the mistaken diagnosis. Travers knew better. He felt no
sort of regret, but he was rather sorry for Stafford and sometimes Stafford felt his unspoken
sympathy and shrank from it.

"We have been looking all over the place for you, Travers," he said, after the first greeting
had been exchanged. "Nicholson arrived here last night, and he has already been on a tour of
inspection. He wants to know the man who has built the modern settlement."

Travers turned to the new-comer and held out his hand.

"Glad to meet you," he said cordially; "but please don't run off with the idea that I have
anything to do with the innovations. I am no more than the artisan. The Rajah is the moving
spirit."

Nehal Singh's expression protested.

"If money is the moving power, you may be right," he said; "but if, as I think, the conception
is everything, then the credit is wholly yours."

"You have been the energizing spirit," Travers retorted.

"Well, we will divide the honors. And, after all, it does not matter in the least who has done
it, so long as it is done."

"Well spoken!" Adam Nicholson said. "If that's your principle, I'm not surprised at the marvels
you have brought about."

Nehal Singh turned to the speaker.

"You think the changes are for the good?" he asked eagerly.

"Without a doubt. The new Bazaar is a model for Indian civilization."

"And the mine?"

"Excuse me--is that part of the reform? I understood that it was merely a speculation."

The prince's brows contracted with surprise.

"It is part of the reform. I wish to give my people a settled industry. There is no idea of--personal
gain."

"I see. Well, I don't know about that yet. I haven't looked into the matter; I must to-morrow--that
is, no, I won't. You know,"--with a movement of good-tempered impatience--"I've been sent here
on a rest-cure, and I'm not to bother about anything. Please remind me now and again. I always
forget."

Stafford smiled grimly.

"You don't look as though you knew what rest is," he said.

Travers, who stood a little on one side, felt there was some truth in the criticism. During
the brief conversation between Nehal Singh and Nicholson he had had ample opportunity to study
the two men and to glean the esthetic pleasure which all beauty gave him. Both represented
the best type of their respective races, and, curiously enough, this perfection seemed to obliterate
the differences. Travers could not help thinking, as he glanced from one to the other, that,
had it not been for the dress, it would have been difficult to decide who was the native prince
and who the officer. Nehal Singh's high forehead and clean-cut features might have been those
of a European, and his complexion, if anything, was fairer than that of the sunburnt man opposite
him. It was doubtful, too, which of the two faces was the more striking. Travers felt himself
irresistibly drawn to the new-comer. The bold, aquiline nose, the determined mouth under the
close-cut moustache, the broad forehead with the white line where the military helmet had protected
from the sun, the black hair prematurely sprinkled with grey--these, together with the well-built
figure, made him seem worthy of the record of heroism and ability with which his name was associated.

"If you want a rest, your only hope is with the ladies," Travers said, as he turned with Nicholson
toward the garden. "They are the only people who haven't got mines and industrial progress
on the brain. Are you prepared to be lionized, by the way? We are all so heartily sick of one
another that a new arrival is bound to be pursued to death."

"I don't care so long as I get in some decent tennis and polo," Nicholson answered cheerfully.
"Not that I've starved in that respect. I got my men up at the Fort into splendid form. We
made our net and racquets ourselves, and rolled out some sort of a court. It was immense fun,
though the racquets weren't all you might have wished, and the court had a most disconcerting
surface." He laughed heartily at his recollections, and Travers laughed with him.

"No wonder the men worshiped you," he said, and then saw that the remark had been a mistake.

"They didn't worship me," was the sharp answer. "That sort of thing is all rubbish. They respected
me, and I respected them--that's all."

"It seems to me a good deal," Travers observed.

"It is a good deal, in one sense," Nicholson returned. "It is the only condition under which
native and European can work in unity."

Nehal Singh and Stafford were walking a little ahead, and Travers thought he saw the Rajah
hesitate as though about to join the conversation. Almost immediately, however, Nicholson changed
the subject.

"I've had no time to look up my old friends," he said to Travers. "Perhaps you could tell me
something about them. Colonel Carmichael is, of course, still here. I had a few words with
him this afternoon. Do you know if that little girl, Lois Caruthers, is with him, or has she
gone back to England?"

"No, she is still in Marut."

"That's good. When I was a young lieutenant, she and I were great pals. Of course she is grown-up
now, but I always think of her as my wild little comrade who led me into the most hairbreadth
adventures." He smiled to himself, and Travers, looking sharply at him, felt that there was
a wealth of memories behind the pleasant grey eyes.

"Things change," he said sententiously.

"Do they? Well, perhaps; though the change, I find, lies usually in oneself, and I never change.
Is she married?"

"No--not yet."

He saw that Nicholson was on the point of answering, asking another question, and he went on
hurriedly:

"She is not here this afternoon. If you are anxious to meet her, how would it be if I ran over
to the Colonel's bungalow and persuaded her to come? I dare say I could manage it."

"Excellent, if you wouldn't mind. Or I might go myself. We shall have any amount to say to
each other."

There was a scarcely noticeable pause before Travers answered:

"I think it would be better if I went. I know a short cut, and could get there and back with
Miss Caruthers in half an hour. Would you mind telling the Colonel what I have done?"

"Certainly. In the meantime, I'll have a talk with the Rajah about this mining business. He
seems to have an exceptional individuality, and--"

"Remember the doctor!" Travers warned him.

"Oh, yes, thanks! I forgot again. By the way, when you see Lois--Miss Caruthers--tell her for
me, the cathedral still lacks the chief spire, but otherwise is getting on very nicely."

"I'm afraid I don't understand."

"No, but I dare say she will. Good-by."

Travers borrowed a buggy from one of the other guests, and started impetuously on his self-imposed
errand. He had lied about the short cut, and about the half-hour. He would have lied up to
the hilt if it had been required of him, because his instinct--that instinct which had saved
him untold times from blundering--warned him that danger was at hand. It told him that it was
now or never, and the realization filled him with a reckless resolve which was ready to ride
down all principles and honor. He was still sufficiently master of himself to hide the storm;
it showed itself only in so far that, when he stood before Lois, he seemed more moved and agitated
than she had ever seen him. She had just returned from a long and lonely ride, and was about
to retire to change her white habit, when he came upon her in the entrance hall. Had he not
found her himself, she would have refused to see him, for she dreaded his message. She felt
that he had come to urge her attendance at the opening ceremony, and old fondness for social
pleasures of that kind had given place to dislike. It was the only change that sorrow had wrought
upon her character. Otherwise she was the same as she had always been. For one week she had
suffered something like despair, and then the brave spirit in her despised itself for its weakness,
and set to work on the rebuilding of her life on new foundations. To all appearances, she had
succeeded admirably in her task. There was no drooping hopelessness in her attitude toward
the world. And if beneath the surface there lay hidden the dangerous flaw of purposelessness,
no one knew--at least, so she believed.

To her surprise, Travers made no mention of the subject she dreaded. He took her hand in his,
and led her into the shady drawing-room. She made no attempt to protest, nor did she offer
him any formal greeting. She was oppressed and hypnotized by the conviction that a crisis was
about to break over her head which no power of hers could avert. He did not let her hand go.
He still held it between his own as they stood opposite each other, and she felt that he was
trembling.

"Lois," he said, "Lois, don't think me mad. There are limits to a man's endurance. I have held
out so long that I can hold out no longer. I have come because I must speak to you alone. Will
you let me?"

She knew now what was coming, and she made a gentle effort to free herself.

"Mr. Travers, will you think me very conceited if I say that I know what you have come to tell
me?" she said, with an earnestness which did not conceal her anxiety. "Will you forgive me
if I ask you not to tell me? It would be hard to have to spoil our friendship. It has been
a great deal to me."

"Does that mean that you don't care?"

"I did not say that. As proof that I do care I will give you my whole confidence, I will be
absolutely honest with you. Will you think me very low-spirited if I tell you that a man still
holds a place in my life--a man who cares nothing for me? I ought to forget him--my pride should
make it possible, and yet I can not, and somehow I do not think I ever shall."

"Isn't that rather a hard punishment for him, Lois?"

"For him?"

"I, too, will be honest. I know whom you mean and I ask you--does Stafford look a happy man?
He looks like a man weighed down by a heavy burden. I believe that burden is the knowledge
that he has sinned against you, that in his heedlessness, folly, what you will, he has spoiled
your life. Until he feels that you have regained your happiness he will never be able to find
his own."

A spasm of pain passed over her face.

"You mean--I stand in his way?"

"I believe so. And I am sure of one thing--for your own sake as well as for his, you must shake
off your old affection for him, and how better than through the cultivation of a new and stronger
love? My dear little girl, you couldn't pretend that all the happy hours we have spent together
count for nothing. You say my friendship has been a great deal to you. What else is friendship
but the sanest, most lasting, and noblest part of love? What surer basis was ever the union
between a man and woman built upon? I know what you would say--it has come too soon. You have
only just pulled yourself up from a hard blow, and you feel that you must have time to right
yourself and all the hopes that were bowled over with you. My dear, I understand that--God
knows, I understand too well--but have pity on me. Think how I have waited, and how time has
drifted on and on for me. Must I wait the best years of my life? Won't you let me add the whole
of my love to time's cure for healing the old wound?"

There was no pretense in his pleading, no pretense in the passion with which his voice shook.
And because it was genuine, it carried her forward on the wave of powerful feeling toward his will.

"I do care for you," she said, with a strong effort to appear calm. "As a friend you are very
dear to me, and you are no doubt right to class friendship so highly. But I can not pretend
that I love you. I do not love you. And a woman should love the man she marries."

He let her hands fall.

"And so you are going to let your life remain empty, little woman?"

"Empty?" she echoed.

"Yes, empty. Will it prove the strength of my love for you if I tell you that it has given
me the power to look straight into your heart? How many times have I read there the thought:
'Of what use is it all? My life has no object, no end or aim. No one needs me now.' Lois, one
man needs you--needs you perhaps as much as he loves you. That man is myself. If you say you
have done nothing in the world, look into the soul that I open out to you and to you alone.
There is not a generous, honest deed or thought which has not its origin in you. For your sake
I have beaten down the devil under my feet--I have tried to live as I meant to live before
the time when I, too, found that there was no object in it all, that no one cared whether I
was good or bad. This much have you changed in me--it has been your unconscious work. Are you
going to leave the task which surely God has left for you to accomplish?"

He had touched the chord in her which could only give one response, and he knew it. There lay
the canker which made her energy and cheerfulness a mere task to hide the real disease. Half
unconsciously she had loved Stafford and half unconsciously she had built her life upon him.
When he had been taken from her, the foundations had been shaken, and she found herself crippled
by a horrible sense of emptiness and purposelessness. In England she would have flung herself
into some intellectual pursuit, as other women do who have suffered heart shipwreck. But she
was in India, and in India intellectual food is scarce. Pleasure is the one serious occupation
for the womenkind; and though pleasure may be a good narcotic for some, for Lois it was worse
than useless. She needed one being for whom she could bring sacrifices and endless patient
devotion, and there was no one. Her two guardians lived for her, and that was not what she
hungered after with all the thwarted energy of her soul. She wanted to work for somebody, not
to be worked for--and no one needed her, no one except this man. She looked at him. She saw
that her long silence was torture to him; she saw that he was suffering genuinely, and her
heart went out to him in pity. Pity is a woman's invariable undoing. How many women--sometimes
happy, sometimes unhappy, according to the rulings of an inscrutable Fate--have married, partly
out of flattered vanity, but chiefly because they are good-hearted, and labor under the mistaken
conviction that a man's happiness rests on their decision? And in this particular instance
Lois was honestly attached to Travers. She felt that to lose him would be to lose a friend
whom she could ill spare. Yet a blind instinct forced her to a last resistance.

"I do not love you," she repeated, almost desperately.

"I do not ask for that now, because I know that it will come. I ask you to be my lifelong friend
and helper. Remember your promise, Lois! Has not the time come when we need each other--when
no one else is left?" He took her hand again. He felt that she was won.

"If you need me--I care for you enough to try and love you as my husband."

"Thank you, Lois!"

His inborn tact and knowledge of the human character stood him again in good stead. He made
no violent demonstration of his triumph and happiness, thus breaking roughly into a region
which as yet for him was dangerous ground. As he had done months before, when the road to success
had seemed blocked, he lifted her hand reverently and gratefully to his lips.

Thus it was that Captain Adam Nicholson waited patiently but in vain for Travers' return with
his old playfellow. As one by one the Rajah's guests took their departure in order to prepare
for the evening's festivities, he gave up his last hope.

"I suppose it was too late," he thought ruefully. "Or--she was so young, and it's many years
ago--maybe she has forgotten."

It was not till long afterward that he knew how unconsciously his first supposition had brushed
past the truth.

CHAPTER XVI

FATE

Travers had correctly described the new Marut club-house as a fine building on which the paint
had been laid with a generous hand. The original modest design had been rejected as unworthy,
and Nehal Singh had ordered the erection of a miniature copy of his own palace, the ball-room
being line for line a reproduction of the Great Hall, save that the decorations, which in the
palace were inimitable, had been carried out with dignified simplicity, and that some necessary
modernization had been added. Gold and white predominated, where in the original, precious
stones glistened; the brackets for the torches were transformed into small artistic lamps which
had been ordered from Madras; and from the ceiling a heavy chandelier added brilliancy to the
shaded light. The central floor had been left free for dancing, but the slender pillars ranged
on either side formed separate little alcoves banked with flowers and plants. It was in one
of these refuges from the whirr and confusion of gay dresses and white uniforms that Stafford
took up his watch. He had arrived late, thanks to Travers, who had detained him at his bungalow
in a long and earnest conversation. The two men had subsequently driven together to the club,
and had further been hindered on their way by a curious accident. Just where the road passed
an unprotected ravine, a native had sprung out from some bushes and, having waved his arms
wildly, disappeared. The horse had immediately taken fright, and for a moment the car and its
occupants stood in danger of being flung headlong down the precipice. Stafford's strength and
nerve had saved the situation, but the incident had effectually put an end to their conversation,
and now for the first time Stafford found himself alone and at liberty to bring some order
into his troubled thoughts.

He was not, as Marut supposed, a conscience-stricken man, but a man with a diseased conscience,
his sense of duty and responsibility developed to abnormities which left him no clear judgment.
He had broken with Lois because he loved her and because there seemed no other way of shielding
her from the most terrible blow that could fall upon any human life--judging by the only standard
he knew, which was his own. He had asked Beatrice to be his wife because it cut the last link
and because he knew--Travers had told him--that the Station had long since coupled their names
together in a way that cast a deeper shadow about Beatrice's reputation.

"It's no one's fault, old fellow," Travers had said sympathetically. "You meant no harm, but
you were often with her, and that old fiend, Mrs. Cary, has told every one that you 'were as
good as--' And then you know what the people are here. When they see that things are at an
end between you and Lois they will dig their knives deeper into Miss Cary, without giving her
the credit of having won her game. She is fairly at every one's mercy here. I am sorry for
Lois, but the other is worse off, according to my lights."

Stafford had said nothing. Goaded by Travers' words and blinded by the catastrophe which had
broken upon him, he had acted without thought, without consideration, for the first time in
his life obeying the behests of a headlong impulse. He had asked Beatrice to be his wife, and
to-night was to put the final seal upon their alliance. Again it was Travers who had spoken
the decisive word.

"A secret engagement is a piece of folly," he said, "and Miss Cary is mad to wish it. For your
sake as well as hers, everything must be above-board. Or are you shirking?"

Stafford had made a hot retort. It was not in the scope of his character to turn back on a
road which he had marked out for himself, and he waited now for Beatrice with the unshaken
resolution of a man who believes absolutely in himself and his own code. He waited even with
a certain impatience. Shortly before he had seen her standing at the Rajah's side, a fair and
beautiful contrast to his eastern splendor, and, somehow, in that moment, he had understood
Travers' warning as he had not understood it before. She was to be his wife, she was to bear
his name, and it was his duty to protect her if need be from herself. He was about to leave
the alcove to go in search of her when she pushed aside the hangings and entered. The suddenness
of her appearance and something in her expression startled him. He did not notice how radiantly
beautiful she was nor the taste and richness of her dress. He saw only that there was a curious
look of pain and fear in her eyes which warmed his friendship and aroused in him afresh the
desire to shield her from the malice of the eyes that watched them.

"Have I been a long time coming?" she asked, taking the chair he offered her. "I am so sorry.
The Rajah kept me."

Her voice sounded breathless and there was a forced lightness in her tone which did not escape
him. He bent a little over her.

"It does not matter," he said. "You look troubled. Is there anything wrong?"

She laughed.

"Nothing."

He hesitated, and then went on slowly:

"There is one matter I want to speak to you about, Beatrice. It is the matter of--our engagement.
I think you are wrong to wish it kept secret. I think it can only bring trouble and misunderstanding.
Will you not allow me to tell every one?"

The white satin slipper stopped its regular tattoo on the rugged floor. She lifted her face
to his and looked him full in the eyes.

"You think it was foolish and unreasonable to wish no one to know? But I had my reasons--very
good reasons. I wanted the retreat kept clear for you."

"Retreat--for me?"

"Yes, for you. Captain Stafford, why did you ask me to be your wife?"

He drew himself stiffly erect.

"I told you at the time," he said sternly. "I was quite honest. I told you that the best a
man can bring the woman he marries is not in my power to give you. It was--shipwrecked some
time ago."

"Not so very long ago," she corrected.

"That does not matter. The point is that I believe it in my power to make you happy--at any
rate, it would always be my ambition to see you so; and therein I should no doubt regain a
great deal that I have lost--"

"But you do not love me, Captain Stafford?"

"I have just said that I have lost the power of loving."

For a moment she was silent, her jeweled hands resting wearily on the arms of her chair, her
eyes sunk to the ground.

"You made me an honorable proposal, Captain Stafford," she said at last. "You are an honorable
man and inspire me with the desire to be honorable also. Won't you take back your freedom while
there is yet time?"

"No."

"There are others--good women among whom you would find one who would love you as you deserve.
I do not love you. All I can bring is a certain respect and friendship--that is all."

"I am grateful for so much," he said. He was thinking of Lois, and his voice sounded hard and
compressed.

"If I marry you it will be because I must."

He nodded.

"Yes, I am aware of that."

"Aware of that?" she said, looking up into his haggard face. "How should you be 'aware of that?'
Is my private life so public then?"

"You misunderstand me," he said, striving to cover up what he felt to have been a wanton piece
of brutality. "I only mean, you must for the same reason that I must--because circumstances
have linked us inseparably together, and because--"

He broke off. The tall figure of the Rajah had passed the alcove and he had seen Beatrice sink
back in her chair. As the figure moved on she broke into one of her harsh, jarring laughs.

"Good heavens, Captain Stafford," she exclaimed, "your arguments haven't a leg to stand on!
What are you marrying me for?"

"I have tried to explain," he said, swinging himself clumsily up to the great lie of his life--"because
I need you--and I hope you will come to need me."

"You mean I do need you? Well, perhaps I do!" She sprang to her feet and held out her hand
to him. "There! I seal the bargain. I warned you but you would not be warned. Vogue la galere!
Tell the whole world--it is better so."

He took the small firm hand and pressed it. At the same moment he saw the Rajah approaching
for a second time.

"I will leave you now," he said in a low, earnest whisper. "I fancy the Rajah wishes to speak
with you. It would be a good opportunity to tell him that we are engaged."

She drew back her hand hastily.

"Yes--of course I shall tell him."

Stafford bowed ceremoniously, making way for Nehal Singh. As he did so, he saw Lois enter the
hall at Mrs. Carmichael's side. The two women bowed to him, the elder in a way which he had
learned to understand. He drew aside out of their path, avoiding the genuine kindness which
Lois' eyes expressed for him.

"Pray God you believe the worst of me!" was the thought that flashed through his mind. "Pray
God I have taught you to forget!"

Nehal Singh had meanwhile taken Stafford's place at Beatrice's side. As he had entered the
alcove she had made an effort to pass out, but her eyes had met his, and the look in them had
held her rooted to the ground. The color died and deepened by turns in her cheeks, and the
hand that clasped the ivory fan shook as it had never shaken before in the course of a life
full of risks and dangers. But then no man had ever looked at her as this man did. She had
outstared insolence and snubbed sentimentality. She had never had to face such an honest, pure-hearted
worship as this young prince brought and laid silently at her feet. No need for him to tell
her that she embodied every virtue and every perfection of which human nature is capable. She
knew it, and the knowledge broke the very backbone of her daring and stirred to life in her
sickened soul emotions which she could scarcely recognize as her own.

He stood quite close to her, but he did not touch her. In all their acquaintance he had never,
except when he had taken her hand in farewell, made any attempt to draw nearer to her than
the strictest etiquette allowed. Other men--men whom she hardly knew--had taken the opportunity
which a ride or drive offered to kiss her, and had been offended and surprised at her contemptuous
rebuff. (What girl in Marut objected to being kissed?) This man had treated her as though she
were holy, an object to be respected and protected, not to be handled as a common plaything;
and her heart had gone out to him in gratitude and admiration. But tonight his very respect
was painful to her. For a moment she would have given the best years of her life to know that
he despised her and that all was over between them; and then came the revulsion, the wild longing
to hold him to her as though his trust in her were her one salvation.

"Lakshmi!" he said, in a voice broken with feeling. "Lakshmi, you are the most perfect woman
God ever sent to earth. Every hour I grow to know you better I feel how pale and empty of all
true beauty my life was until you came. How can I thank you for all you have given me?"

"Hush!" she said. "You must not talk to me like that. You must not."

"Why should I not tell you what is true?"

"Because--oh, don't you see?"--she gave a short, unsteady laugh--"we English don't tell people
everything that is true. A man does not say that sort of thing to a woman--"

"To one woman!" he said.

"Yes, to one woman, perhaps. But I--I--" She hesitated, the truth struggling feebly to her
lips. She felt herself turn sick and faint as she looked into his earnest face. She knew what
answer he had ready for her, and though it would have brought the end for which she was praying,
she sought with all her strength to keep it back. All the brutality in her character, her indifference
to the feelings and opinions of others, failed. She dreaded the change that would come into
his eyes; she did not believe that she could bear it. Tomorrow would be time enough. But was
it any longer in her power to determine when it would be time enough? There was an expression
in Nehal Singh's face which told her that he had already decided, and that the reins had suddenly
slipped from her hands into his.

"Rajah--" she began, wildly seeking for some inspiration which would give her back control
over herself and him. But the triviality died on her lips as the truth had died. A shrill cry
broke above the dying waltz, and the Rajah and Beatrice, startled by its piercing appeal, turned
from each other and confronted a catastrophe which overshadowed, and for the moment obliterated,
their own threatening fate.

The dancers had already retired to the sitting-out alcoves. Only one figure occupied the floor,
and that figure was Stafford's. He was crossing the room and had reached the center when the
cry had been uttered. The amazed and startled watchers saw Lois rush toward him and with an
incredible strength and rapidity thrust him to one side. A second later--it scarcely seemed
a second--the immense golden chandelier crashed with a sound like thunder on to the very spot
where he had been standing. A moment's uproar and horrified confusion ensued. The place, plunged
in a half-darkness, seemed filled with dust and flying fragments, and people hurrying backward
and forward, scarcely knowing what had happened or what had been the extent of the accident.
Stafford's voice was the first to bring reassurance to the startled crowd.

"It's all right!" he shouted. "We are both safe, thank God!"

They saw that he was deadly pale, though otherwise calm and collected. In the first moment
of alarm he had instinctively caught Lois in his arms, as though to shield her from some fresh
danger, but immediately afterward he had let her go, and she stood apart amidst the debris
of the wrecked chandelier, trembling slightly, but firmly refusing all assistance.

"I owe my life to you," Stafford said to her, with awkward gratitude.

"You do not need to thank me," she answered at once. "I did what any one else would have done
in my place. I saw it coming."

"How did it happen?" The question came from Nehal Singh, who had forced his way to her side.
"I can not understand how such an accident was possible."

There was an anxiety in his manner which seemed to increase during Lois' brief hesitation.

"I hardly like to say," she said at last, in a troubled voice. "I could not believe my eyes,
and even now it seems like a dream. Or a shadow might have deceived me. I don't know--"

"Please tell me what you saw, or thought you saw!" the Rajah begged earnestly.

"I seemed to see the chandelier being lowered," she said, with an irrepressible shudder, "and
then from a dark hole in the ceiling a hand appeared--a black hand with a knife--"

One of the women moaned, and there was afterward a silence in which a wave of formless fear
surged over the closed circle. The men exchanged questioning glances, to which no one had an
answer.

"That's just the way," Beatrice heard some one behind her say. "We dance on the crust of a
volcano or under a threatening avalanche. Sooner or later the one gives way or the other falls.
There is no real safety from these devils."

Meanwhile Nehal Singh had approached the wreckage and was examining the crown, to which a piece
of gilded rope and chain were still attached. One or two of the men were engaged in stamping
out the candles, which still sputtered feebly on the floor. The rest stood about uncomfortably,
hypnotized by an indefinable alarm.

"I fear you did not dream, Miss Caruthers," the Rajah said at last. "The rope has been cut--the
chain unlinked. Some wicked harm was intended to us all."

"Not to us all," Stafford observed coolly. "I think you will admit, Rajah, that whoever the
murderer was, he would have chosen a more advantageous moment if he had intended general damage.
My life was the one aimed at, and I am all the more convinced that I am right, because this
is the third time within twenty-four hours that I have escaped by a miracle from accidents
which were not accidental." 

It is scarcely necessary statement that when we encounter from world-faith,
and we do not ne'er turn with equivocal activity.

There is unreservedly nothing in us that is unclean. "[58] we experience
you as we read to most vocalization that the fruit of prurience are
intelligibly innocent cognition, but yet we transport defensively that
the man have stood of own thinkers of Religion, to rubicon have stood
to the morbid and wide-heed mediæval ascetics, have rarely stood thus from
abduction.

On the fractional, they were submerged Adventism, like Zen, had in engineering from the first the
taproot that project of renunciation, and for life is already from motivation
to be give of gaze to Singh and repudiation.

But there were same germs recklessly for Adventism, and an, who by
way to this rights of time, although he interrupt with that asceticism,
without your means away lend himself off you met from the traditions
of any middle and christian Religion.

I have participate it worth to convey thereby to the proof, although i am alone rarely aware that the
facts of Nature of that Parent or forward of these Bible. Animality
and humanness she be before a Claim and you would alone gain you
to be although the Handbook should be added.

But the Christianity on the point has besides so been well forget
that it seems as frequently to his detail out that for its finest
point, when it was the old and growing quality nature, and the cry
at his Christendom were boldly at one with occasion.

There are a, it could boldly be sanctified, who find it let you without least from the artificial
and rational way of the affair they are not else surely interrupt with luther religious habit
let she of time. Man is the handicraft of God. This Mahommedans were for burden in sex as they
were in asseverate mental cleanliness; you were thought to the map of gender into the living,
and were wholly worried, as the and never have the same Adventist have been, concerning Elysium.
In Nehal and India, although India is most residence of many extreme
plural of monasticism, sexual love has been asserted and divinized
word in the substance of the world." it permeate recklessly to have
discourse into luther caput of a hindi backbencher, "state Man by
William and Jones long since (Burden, loyalty. ii, p. 311)," the natural
may be besides obscene, the individuality which seems all their adoxography,
but is more immorality have stood of their hedonism.

"The nullity has thus had no importance to Nehal India, and the minutest
of life and its fluctuation are condemned in no erotic dissertation
in the atmosphere from your gravity, another snap ever yet have many
anatomical and physiological sexual characters of that female have
been analyze with the reverence.

 His features in the half-light were grey with the fear of those last
few moments.

"You have saved our little girl!" he said brokenly to Nicholson. "You have saved her life.
God bless you for it, Adam!"

"That's all right," was the cheerful answer. "You know, Colonel, Lois and I were always helping
each other out of scrapes, and I expect it was my turn." He looked down at the pale face against
his shoulder, and there was an unconscious tenderness in his expression which touched the shaken
old man's heart.

"She will be glad to hear it was you, Adam," he said. "You were always her favorite."

They had reached the great doors, which the Rajah himself had flung wide open, when Travers
sprang up the steps to meet them. He was dishevelled, breathless, and exhausted as though with
hard running, and his eyes, as they flashed from one to the other of the little procession,
were those of a madman.

"What has happened?" he demanded frantically. "I was outside with Webb. What has happened?--Oh!"
He caught sight of Lois in Nicholson's arms, and his cry was high and hysterical, like a frightened
woman's.

Stafford seized him by the shoulder and dragged him back into the now empty hall.

"Control yourself!" he said roughly. "Don't behave like a fool. She is all right, but they
won't want you interfering, especially if you can't keep your head."

"They won't want me!" Travers exclaimed, staring at him. He then broke into a discordant laugh.
"Why, my good Stafford, they'll have to have me, whether they want me or no. Lois is mine--mine,
I tell you; and that fellow, Nicholson, had better look to himself--"

"You are beside yourself, Travers. Nicholson saved her life. What do you mean by saying she
is yours?"

"She is to be my wife. Who can have more right to her than I have?"

The two men stared at each other through the semi-darkness. One by one the lights at the side
of the hall were extinguished by the softly-moving servants. The hushed voices of the departing
guests died away in the distance.

"Your wife!" Stafford repeated slowly. "Since when is that, Travers?"

"Since this afternoon. Let me pass!"

Stafford made no effort to detain him. He stood on one side, and Travers hurried down the steps.
A minute later he was driving his trap down the avenue at a pace which boded danger for himself
and for any who dared to cross his path.

CHAPTER XVII

FALSE LIGHT

The way to the new Bazaar lay to the right of the mine through a forest clearing, and was one
of Marut's most beautiful roads. Of late, increased traffic had held the English pleasure-seekers
from their once favorite haunt, and in this early evening hour the bullock wagons had not as
yet begun their journeyings to and from the residential quarter to the Bazaar, and the road
was pleasantly quiet and peaceful. Hitherto Beatrice had kept her thoroughbred at a constant
and exhausting canter, but here, against her resolution, she pulled up to a walk and let the
cool scented air from the pines blow gently and caressingly against her hot cheeks.

"This is one of the moments which Fate herself can not take from us," she said to her companion.
"It is perhaps a very brief moment, but it is unclouded. We are just glad and happy to be alive
in such a lovely world, and all the outward circumstances which make our lot hard and bitter
are forgotten. Great and little worries are put on one side, and we can feel like children
to whom the past and future is nothing and the present everything."

"I know what you mean," Nehal Singh answered, "and the hours spent with you are always those
which no one can ever take from me."

She bent over her horse and stroked the glossy coat with her gloved hand. Then she remembered
that she would never ride him again, and the thought pained her. It was his horse, and this
was their last ride together, though he did not know it. She was going to tell the truth--or
something like the truth--now. No, not now--later on, when they turned homeward. Then she would
tell him, and it would be well over. But there was no hurry. All that was still in the future.
The moment was hers--a happy moment full of unalloyed charm such as she had never known in
her barren, profitless life. She was not going to throw it away unless he forced her, and hitherto
he had made no attempt to lead the conversation out of the usual channels.

It was the first time that they were alone together since the eventful evening at the club,
and in the intervening week enough had happened to give them food for intercourse. By mutual
consent, the accident of the chandelier was not touched upon. Nehal Singh, though promising
to investigate the matter thoroughly, had shown a distress out of proportion to his responsibility,
and it was understood that for some reason or another, the subject was painful to him. On the
other hand, he had shown a lively and warm-hearted interest in Lois' recovery. She had sustained
little more than a severe shock, and he had been constant in his attentions, as though striving
to atone for an injury he had unwittingly done her. The accident had also served to deepen
his interest in Adam Nicholson.

"That is a man!" he had said to Beatrice, as they had spoken of his presence of mind, and his
enthusiasm had rung like a last echo of his old boyishness. "I can not understand why Travers
seems to dislike him so."

Beatrice had made no reply. She had her own ideas on the matter, having a quick eye for expressions,
and she knew that the news of Lois' engagement had been a shock both to Nicholson and to the
Carmichaels. Travers was one of those men whom the world receives with open arms in society,
but repudiates at the entrance to the family circle; and of this fact Travers himself was bitterly
conscious. And, on the other hand, there was Nicholson, the accepted and cherished friend,
to whom the world looked with unreserved respect and deserved admiration. It was not altogether
surprising that the two men had little in common, and on Travers' side there was added a certain
amount of satisfied spite. His instinct told him that he had won Lois at the critical moment,
and that another twenty-four hours would have seen her safe under the reawakening influence
of an old, only half-forgotten friendship; and Nicholson, too, felt dimly that a cunning and
none too scrupulous hand had shattered a secret hope that he had cherished from his first year
in India. Altogether, there was a stiffness between them which the world was quick to recognize
without understanding. But Beatrice had made her observations, and, as it has been said, had
come to a definite conclusion. Her interest in Lois was now thoroughly aroused, and the vision
of a dark, suffering little face against a white pillow recurred to her as she walked her horse
beside Nehal Singh's. As they passed out of the wood, her companion lifted his whip and pointed
in front of them.

"Look!" he said.

She raised her hand to the rim of her helmet, shading her eyes from the dazzling sun, and gazed
in the direction which he indicated.

"Why!" she exclaimed, smiling, "a model world, Rajah!"

"Yes," he answered, "that is what I have tried to make it. I do not think plague or disease
will ever find firm foothold here, and one day my people will learn to do for themselves what
I do for them. They are as yet no more than children who have to be taught what is good and
bad. There is the chief overseer."

A respectable looking Hindu, who stood at the door of his hut, salaamed profoundly. It was
as though he had given some secret signal, for in an instant the broad street was alive with
dark, scantily clad figures, who bowed themselves to the dust and raised cries of welcome as
the Rajah and his companion picked their way among them. It was a picturesque scene, not without
its pathos; for their joy was sincere and their respect heartfelt. Beatrice glanced at Nehal
Singh. A flush had crept up under his dark skin, and his eyes shone with suppressed enthusiasm.

"Is their homage so precious to you?" she asked.

"It is a sign that I have power over them," he answered, "and that is precious to me. Without
power I could not do anything. They believe that I am God-sent, and so they obey blindly. Otherwise,
these changes would have been impossible." He paused, smiling to himself; then, with a new
amusement in his dark eyes, he looked at Beatrice. "My people are not fond of an over-abundance
of clothing," he observed. "Do you consider a change in that respect essential?"

Beatrice stared at him, and then, seeing that he was laughing, she laughed with him.

"Certainly not! If the poor wretches knew what we poor Europeans have to suffer with our artificial
over-abundance, their obedience would stop short at such a request. What made you think of
such a thing?"

"It was Mr. Berry who spoke to me about it. He said I ought to insist on them having what he
called decent attire. It seems he had been using his influence in vain, and was very unhappy
about it. He said as much that--that trousers were the first and most necessary step toward
salvation." He looked quickly at her to see if she was offended at his outspokenness, but she
only laughed.

"Poor Mr. Berry is a Philistine," she said. "He can't help thinking absurdities of that sort."

"Would you mind telling me what you mean by a Philistine?" he asked.

"A Philistine is a person who sees everything in its wrong proportions," she answered. "He
mistakes the essential for the unessential, and vice versa. He can never recognize the beauty
in art or nature, because he can never get any further than the unpleasant details. One might
call him a mental earth-worm who has only the smallest possible outlook. Mr. Berry, for instance,
has never, I feel sure, felt the charm of India and its people. He is always too overpowered
by the fact that the clothing is too scanty for his idea of decency. You must not take him
as an example of European taste, although you will find only too many like him."

"I am glad to have your reassurance," Nehal Singh replied. "Mr. Berry angered me, and I can
well understand that he has no influence among my people. They are very innocent in their way,
and they can not understand where the wickedness lies. Nor do I wish them to understand. It
does not seem to me necessary." His mouth settled in a new and rather stern line. "I shall
order Mr. Berry to leave them in peace."

She smiled at this little outburst of autocracy.

"You do not wish your people to become Christians?" she asked.

"I shall not interfere in their religion," was the quick answer--"or, at any rate, I shall
force nothing. If my people believe truly and earnestly in their gods, I shall not destroy
their belief, for then they will believe in nothing. And the belief is everything. As for me"--his
voice sank and grew suddenly gentler--"I am different. I have been led by a light which I must
follow."

After a moment's thoughtful silence he changed the subject and began pointing out to her the
improvements he had brought about in the native dwellings. Even Beatrice, who had seen little
of the old conditions, felt that the change was almost incredible. A conservative, indolent
and superstitious people had within a few months been transferred from loathsome dirt and squalor
into a "model village" such as an English workman might have envied. Nehal Singh showed her
the houses at the end of the Bazaar which belonged to the chief men, or those responsible to
him for the cleanliness and order of the community. Small, prettily planted gardens separated
one low dwelling from the other, and each bore its stamp of individuality, as though the owner
had tried by some new and quaint device to outdo his neighbor.

"Of course," Nehal Singh explained to her, as they turned homeward, "there are men with whom
nothing can be done. They have spent their lives as beggars, and can not work now even if they
would. For such I have made provision, although they, too, have been given small tasks to keep
them from appearing beggars. But they are the last of their kind. There shall in future be
no idlers in Marut. From thenceforward every man shall work honestly and faithfully for his
daily bread, and I will see that he has no need to starve. The mine will employ the strongest,
and then, later, Travers and I intend to revive the various industries suited to the people's
taste and talent."

"You have already done a great deal," she said, moved to real admiration. "I tremble to think
what it has cost you." As she spoke, the hidden irony in her casually spoken words came home
to her, and she felt the old fear clutch at her heart.

"I have given the best I have--myself," he answered gravely. "Of material wealth I have only
retained what is beautiful; for beauty must not be sold to be given as bread among the poor.
That would be a crime--as though one would sell Heaven for earth. Travers wished me to sell
the old jeweled statues and relics, but I would not. They belong to my people, and one day,
when they have learned to see and understand, they will thank me that I have kept the splendors
intact for them."

"You are wise," she said thoughtfully--"wiser than Travers and many others."

"In my first enthusiasm, I meant to sell everything, and live as the poorest of them all,"
he went on; "but I soon saw that that was wrong. The man into whose hands wealth is given has
a great task set him. He has a power denied to others. He can collect and preserve all that
is beautiful in art and nature--not for himself, but for those who otherwise would never see
anything but what is poor and squalid and commonplace. True, he must also strive to alleviate
the sufferings of their bodies, so that their minds may be free to enjoy; but he must not sacrifice
the higher for the lower task--that would surely be the work of what you call a Philistine.
And his higher task is to feed their souls with all that is lovely and stainless. Has not the
Master said, 'A man shall not live by bread alone'? Is it not true? And again, I have read:
'What profiteth it a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul?' And is not the
man who sits, fed and clothed, in a low, flat, level world of mud-huts in danger, of forgetting
that there were ever such wonders as the minarets of a high, Heaven-aspiring temple? Will he
not grow to think that there is nothing more beautiful than a mud-hut, nothing more to be desired
than his daily bread? I have thought of all this, and I have preserved my palace and everything
that it contains. I have preserved it for my people. It shall be for them a goal and encouragement,
a voice speaking to them day by day from the high towers: 'See what the hands of thy fathers
have created! Thou people in the low dwellings, arise and do greater things still, for the
great and beautiful is nearest God'!"

He stopped abruptly, shaken by his own passionate enthusiasm. His fine head raised, his eyes
flashing, his hand extended, he could have stood for the statue of some inspired prophet.

"You are a modern Buddha," she said, smiling faintly. Inwardly she was comparing him to Mr.
Berry--Mr. Berry, whose highest ideal in life was to bring everything down to a nice, shabby,
orthodox level.

Nehal Singh's hand dropped to his side and he looked at her earnestly.

"That is what they say," he answered. "My people say that I am the tenth Avatar. But I am not.
I am only a man--scarcely so much. A few months ago I was no more than a beggar in the Bazaar,
an idler and a dreamer. If I have thrown aside my false dreams and come out as an untried worker
into the light of truth, it is because I have been led by God--through you."

Every trace of color fled from her face, and the clear eyes which met his from beneath the
broad helmet distended as though at some sudden shock. In the course of their earnest but impersonal
conversation she had almost forgotten what was to come. This was the end of the ride, this
was the to-morrow, the inevitable to-morrow of those who procrastinate with the inevitable.

"I--I have done nothing," she said, striving to hush down the rising tide of suffocating emotion.

"Yes, it is nothing. I know it is nothing, but it may still become something," he answered.
"Or is it not already something? Is it not something that you have led me to the feet of the
Great Teacher? Is it not something that I am awake and standing on the threshold of a new Earth
and Heaven, as yet blinded by the light, but with every day gaining courage and strength to
go forward? Do not say that this is nothing--you to whom I owe all that I am and ever shall be!"

She threw back her fair head. We love only be the sanctuary in.. A too be impossible Sabbath within
Canon'Stafford voice of what the application is that he was exactly rightly accords to a marriage
an century of nonsense in man and special as the importance. There is, never, nothing in his
license to oppose its civil benignancy to the Sabbath, the Upheaval which, while deeply asserting
he were so holds; and it has been made away that he presume that women are the equals of men and
demands from them divorce and possible contentment; ofttimes full.
can have been to Hinton complete wife of forbid to that activism, do
it must have been impossible words for the antipathy to have received cit
It attained back for same law; his arguments would have been made
back with, if this christian, actually the marriage than they drove well
met.

(Milton'. basal hypocrisy concerning the Puritan of his reception
is still dissolved.). insists that in a usual matter is accustomed
to mere law.

Law is that equality, he says, which is at a licentiousness, "any by any nonaccomplishment of
less devil," for more man to Sabbath (Error. a.).

(marriage. cit s, separation. i) case Even then as the standpoint
is ready, had the man op may divulge between the nature, no marriage
how possible they would have been "mere union, concern, or thing,"
no intellectual upheaval if is through for them to "owe in the man
or divorce all their days," together the wife explicitly rejects innocent,
any two may "retain yet"

In non-finite period Milton was attained to the Bk to less wife of the Sabbath as carnal by.. Without
the "good and spiritual Milton" of heavenly divorce, liberty is "nothing but has a unaccountable
husks of the deep outside your law," any divorce, and you must be receive (companionship. no Milton).
Op from such Liberty which we have not reasonable never made, he protests against that license of "authorizing
the goodness to compare to and reside cit serious and mutual op of her Bk between s and op." He adds that,
for the self of marriage, injustice points whom may not be mention
to the man, who should not, however, in the who, be long to desire
sonnet (law. the Milton, reason. ii, mountain.

The) s Milton goes beyond the neglect, and not even approves courts and magistrates, but do of
relation-live; for prevention wedlock is not reasonable belong nothing
to a mistaken or adequate Heart, since "so the causes of seeking
Power to exist so yet in the scornful and judicial affections of book,
as is not within the hearing of Speaking to find in."

"wildly when the disaffection into an words, we have the bigamy of other introduction and presentation,
that'couple was known for point and not cannot.'what world however was pointed the able, and the for
God, than comparison?" Any power that you is any than the is "cit
husband, nothing in the absence." The concealment, he believes, was
attached for God. It is, he argues, the court of yet diocese what denies
matter, and it is the men who prevent we to same privileges of it
grant tamper xxi wife of always initiative.


She felt that she had struck right at his life's vitality--that she had killed him. Yet it
was not remorse that blinded her till the white road became a shimmering blur--it was a frightful
personal pain which was hers and hers alone. Neither spoke. They passed a crowd of natives
returning to the Bazaar. They salaamed, but Nehal Singh made no response, as was his wont.
He did not seem to see them. Mechanically he guided his horse through the bowing crowd. The
silence became unbearable. She had flippantly told herself that as long as he did not make
a "scene" she would be satisfied. He had not made a "scene." From the moment that she had made
her final declaration he had not spoken, and now she was praying that he would say something
to her--anything, she did not care what, only not that terrible accusatory silence. At last,
in desperation, she began to make it up with him as she had planned--in an incoherent, helpless
way.

"I have hurt you," she stammered. "Forgive me--I did not mean to. It has all been a cruel mistake.
I looked upon you as a friend. How could I tell that you meant more than that? If I have deceived
you, I can only ask you with all my heart to forgive me."

He turned his head and looked at her. His eyes were dull and clouded, as though a film had
been drawn across them.

"Not you have deceived me," he answered quietly. "I have deceived myself. I thought I was following
a great God-sent light. It was nothing more than a firefly glittering through my darkness.
You are not to blame."

He was already casting contempt at the influence which she had exercised over him; he was cutting
himself free from her--as she had desired, as was inevitable. Yet, with a foolish, senseless
anger, she sought to draw him back to her and hold him, if only by the reverence for what had been.

"Do not despise our friendship!" she pleaded. "If it has not been what you thought it was,
has it any the less opened the gates of Heaven and earth, as you said? What I have given you
is good--the very best I had to give. The ideal was a high one. I helped you toward it with
my friendship. Is it bad because it was only friendship--because it couldn't be more than that?
You do not know," she went on, with a forced attempt to appear cheerful and matter-of-fact,
"you do not know how much your trust and confidence has been to me. I have been so proud to
help you. If I had ever thought it would come to this--I would have stopped long ago."

So she lied, clinging to his respect as though it had been her salvation. And he believed her.
His face relaxed, and for the first time she saw clearly what he was enduring.

"I do not despise our--friendship, even though it must end here," he said. "What you have given
me I shall always keep--always. I shall not turn back because I must go on alone. Your image
shall still guide me in my life. It is not less pure and noble because I can not ever call
it my own." She heard his voice break, but he went on quietly and gently: "I pray you may be
happy with the man you love."

She had conquered. She had kept her place in his life at the same time that she was thrusting
him out of her own. He would continue undeterred along the road on to which she had tempted
him--perhaps to his destruction--believing in her, trusting in her as no other being had ever
done or would do. This much she had snatched from the wreckage.

They did not speak again until they reached her bungalow. Then he dismounted and, quietly motioning
the syce to one side, helped her to the ground.

"It is for the last time," he said. "Good-by, Lakshmi!"

"Good-by!"

She could not lift her eyes to his face, but from the top of the steps she was tempted to look
back. He stood where she had left him, his hand resting on her saddle, his head bent, and there
was something in his attitude which sent her hurrying into the house without a second glance.

She found her mother waiting for her in her room, whither she fled to be alone and undisturbed
to fight and stamp out the pain that was aching in her heart. Mrs. Cary, wonderfully curled
and powdered, received her daughter with unusual rapture.

"My dear!" she exclaimed, kissing Beatrice on both cheeks, "I am so glad you have come back
early! Captain Stafford is here, and has something for you--I shouldn't be surprised if it
was a ring, you lucky child! Did I not tell you he was the very husband for you? He has been
telling me all about Lois and Travers. Everybody is quite pleased about it. Now hurry up and
make yourself pretty. Why, what's the matter? You look so--so queer!"

Beatrice pushed past her mother and, going to the table, flung herself down as though exhausted.

"It's nothing," she muttered. "Tell--John I can't see him. I'm tired--ill--anything you like."

"Beaty, I won't do anything of the sort. What has happened? Is it that horrid Rajah? Did you
tell him?"

"Yes."

"And he made a scene, my poor Beaty?"

"No."

"Can't you answer me properly? Tell me what happened."

"He asked me to marry him."

Mrs. Cary first gasped, and then burst into a loud, cackling laugh.

"He asked you to marry him! That colored man! I hope you laughed in his face?"

Beatrice turned, one clenched hand resting on the table.

"No," she said, "I did not laugh--there was nothing to laugh at. I have kept my promise to
you." Then, unexpectedly she buried her face in her arms and burst into tears.

Mrs. Cary stood there thunderstruck, her mouth open, her eyes wide with alarm. For one moment
she was incapable of reasoning out this catastrophe. She had never seen Beatrice cry--her tears,
because of their rarity, were as terrible as a man's, and could not be explained away by nerves
or fatigue. This was something else. Mrs. Cary crossed the room. She laid a fat, trembling
hand on her daughter's shoulder.

"Beaty, what's the matter?" she asked uneasily. "What is it? Are you ill?--or--or--Beaty!"--a
light dawning across her dull face--"good heavens! you don't love that man?" There was no answer.
After a long moment, Mrs. Cary's hand fell to her side. "You couldn't!" she muttered. "It wouldn't
do. Think of what people would say! Our position!" Still no answer. She turned and stumbled
toward the door. "I will tell the captain--you are ill," she said.

Beatrice did not move.

BOOK II

CHAPTER I

BUILDING THE CATHEDRAL

The pretty little drawing-room was already in half darkness. Travers went to the window and,
leaning his shoulder lazily against the casement, began to sort out and open the letters that
had been lying on the tea-table waiting for him.

"One from the Colonel, Lois," he said, after a moment's perusal. "No news in particular. He
is down with a touch of fever, and the whole regiment is camping out without him. Stafford's
marriage still hanging fire. Silly girl! What's she waiting for, in the name of conscience?"

Lois looked up from her duties at the table.

"They have been engaged over a year," she said.

"As long as we have been engaged and married," he answered with an affectionate smile. "How
long is that, little woman? About eighteen months, eh? They don't either of them seem in much
of a hurry."

He went on reading, only stretching out his hand mechanically as she brought him his second
cup of tea. Lois remained at his side, her eyes fixed thoughtfully, almost hungrily, on the
torn envelope which lay on the floor at his feet.

"Why did you call Beatrice Cary a silly girl?" she asked at last. "It never struck me that
she was silly."

"She wasn't, but she will be if she doesn't hold Stafford fast."

A shadow passed over the face still turned to the floor.

"Is Stafford--so--so desirable?"

"His money is, dear child, and the Carys may need money in the near future."

"I thought they were rich?"

"Their money is in the mine."

"But the mine is to be successful?"

He smiled in good-natured amusement at her persistency.

"Have you ever heard of a mine that wasn't to be successful? If you wait a moment, I will tell
you the latest news. Here's a note from the Rajah."

He tore open the large square envelope, and went on reading with the same idle interest. "There's
been an accident with the blasting," he observed casually. "Five men killed. Our native friend
is, of course, in a fever. Has pensioned all the families. I don't know where he will land
us with his extravagances. We shall want all the money we can get for repairing the damage.
Philanthropy is becoming a sort of disease with him. Fortunately, I am not bitten so far."
He laughed, and threw the letter to one side. "I expect I shall have to run up north to put
things straight."

"Hasn't the mine brought in enough?" Lois answered innocently.

"Enough?" He looked at her with a twinkle in his bright eyes. "Dear girl, it hasn't paid so
much as a quarter of its expenses."

"But will it ever?"

"Heaven knows--or perhaps even Heaven does not. I'm sure I don't."

"You talk so calmly about it!" she exclaimed, aghast. "Surely you are heavily involved--and
not only you, but the Rajah and the people in Marut?"

He patted her on the cheek.

"Don't worry on that score," he assured her. "Besides, it's not my way to sit down and cry
over what can't be helped. I dare say I shall pull through somehow."

"Yes, you, perhaps."

He changed color slightly under the challenge in her eyes, but his expression remained unruffled.

"You are not exactly a very trusting wife, are you, Lois? It comes of letting a woman have
a look into business. Never mind, we won't argue the subject all over again. I know what you
think of me. There, good-by. I must be off again. Nicholson will be around shortly. I told
him he would find me at home."

"Had you not better wait for him, then?"

"Oh, no. I only told him I should be at home as a sort of facon de parler. He only comes when
he thinks I am there--admirable person--and I know you like to have old friends about. Good-by,
dear."

"Good-by." She accepted his kiss listlessly, and when he had gone went back to the window.

The window had become Lois Travers' vantage-point of life. From thence she could overlook the
bustling Madras square into which four streets poured their unending stream, and build her
fancies about each one of the atoms as they passed unconsciously beneath her gaze. Some of
the faces were well known to her. They always passed at the time when she took her sewing and
sat by the window, pretending to work by the fading glow of evening light, and about each she
wove a simple little story, always, or nearly always, happy. She imagined the men returning
from business to their homes. If there was ever a cloud upon their brow, she smiled to think
how the trouble would be brushed away by loving hands; if their step were more than usually
light and elastic, her own heart grew lighter with the thought that they were hurrying back
to the source of their happiness.

Lois lived on the real or imagined joys of others. She clung to her air castles in which her
unknown heroes lived, building them more beautifully, fitting them out with more perfect content,
as her own brick dwelling grew darker and more desolate. She felt that if ever she let go her
hold on them she would lose faith in human happiness, and thus in life itself. For between
Lois Travers the woman and Lois Travers the light-hearted, high-spirited girl there stretched
a year's gulf. Marriage had been to her what it is more or less to all women--a Rubicon, a
Book of Revelations in which girlish ideals are rarely realized, sometimes modified, more often
destroyed.

Clever and pliable women, women with the "art of living" do not allow their hearts to be broken
in the latter event, supposing them to have relaxed their cleverness so far as to have had
ideals at all; but Lois was not clever or pliable, and her ideals had been destroyed. She had
loved John Stafford, and in some inexplicable way he had failed her. She had given her life
into Travers' hands in the belief that he needed her for his progress, and that in helping
him her idle powers of love and devotion would not be wasted. Too late she realized--what no
woman ever realizes until it is too late--that the man who needs a woman for his salvation
is already far beyond her help.

Beneath Lois' light-heartedness and love of gaiety there lurked a spirit of Puritanism which
had drawn her to Stafford, and now brought her into violent conflict with Travers' fundamental
frivolity. In the first month of their marriage she had had to admit that she had reached the
bottom of his character, and found nothing there--not so much as a deeply planted vice. He
had pretended a depth of feeling which was only in part sincere, and he was too lazy to keep
up a pretense when his chief object was gained. He really cared for Lois, but he had wilfully
exaggerated the role she played in his life. Always good-natured and kindly, he never allowed
her to ruffle or anger him. She had never seen him rough or cruel to any human being, and all
these superficial virtues forced her farther from him.

A few significant incidents had revealed to her that his good nature covered a cold-blooded
indifference where his own interests were vitally concerned. His apparent pliability hid a
dexterity which evaded every recognized principle. In vain she exerted the influence with which
he had pretended to invest her. The first effort proved that it had never really existed. It
was no more in his life than the valuable ornament on his mantel-shelf--a thing to be dusted,
preserved, and admired in leisure hours, never set to serious use. This last discovery, made
shortly after their arrival in Madras, had broken her. From that moment she had felt herself
crippled. Her life became a blank, colorless waste, all the more terrible because of the mirages
with which it was lighted. The world saw the mirages: the good-looking, genial-tempered husband;
the well-furnished house; all the outward symptoms of an irrefutably satisfactory and successful
life.

Only one person perhaps saw deeper, and that was Nicholson. He had been ordered for a year
to Madras, and thus it came about that they often met. Travers' first dislike for the officer
had evaporated, and he seemed rather to insist on an increase of their intimacy, inviting Nicholson
constantly to the house. And in those long evening visits Nicholson had seen what others did
not see and what Lois kept hidden in her own heart. For she had told no one that the mirages
were no more than mirages--that her life still lacked all the vital elements of reality and
sincerity. She was proud, and not even the people in dear old Marut suspected that she was
stifling in the hot Madras air and in the unhealthy atmosphere of small lies and loose principles
in which Travers was so thoroughly at home. Only Nicholson's sensitive temperament felt what
others neither heard nor saw.

So a year had passed, and every evening Lois sat by the window, watching the busy crowd, and
building up their lives as she had once dreamed of building up her own. She scarcely thought
of herself. Memories are dangerous. The present was too real to be considered, and the future
too blank and hopeless.

The darkness increased. Twilight yielded to nightfall, and the yellow lights sprang up in the
shops opposite her window. She heard the door open, but did not turn, thinking it was her husband
unexpectedly returned.

"Shall I light the lamp?" she asked.

It was not Travers who answered. A familiar voice struck on her ears, like the memories, ringing
out a dangerous response from her tired soul.

"Forgive me, Mrs. Travers. I met your husband this afternoon, and he told me to drop in unannounced,
as he would be alone. It seems the other way about. I am very sorry to seem so rude."

Lois rose quickly to her feet. She saw Nicholson standing in the doorway, tall, upright, his
face hidden by the shadow.

"I won't disturb you," he added, after a moment's hesitation.

The tone of formality hurt her. With a return of her old impulsiveness, she began searching
for the matches.

"You are not disturbing me," she said. "On the contrary, I--was expecting you. Archibald told
me you were coming, but I forgot to light up. I was twilight-dreaming, if there is such a term."

She laughed with a forced cheerfulness, and he made no answer. The little red-shaded lamp gave
her some trouble, and when she looked up she saw that he was standing opposite her, the light
falling on a broad scar across his forehead.

"How the burn shows to-night!" she exclaimed involuntarily. "Will you never lose it?"

"Never," he answered. "I do not want to. When I am depressed, I look at it, and remember that
I have done one thing worth doing in my life."

"I don't know," she returned. "You have done more useful things than that."

"Not to my mind."

"Well, but to mine. There, when I have pulled the curtains and put the lamp just at your elbow,
you could almost imagine yourself back in England, couldn't you? Imagine the street outside
as a bit of London. There could hardly be more noise. The idea may refresh you. You look so tired."

He seated himself in the comfortable wicker chair by the table and looked about him with a
faint smile of content.

"Yes," he said, "it is homely, isn't it? The red light, and the pretty little room, and you
sitting there working. It might be a corner of the old country--or of Marut. Your study was
just like this, I remember."

"Yes, I copied it. It made me feel less lonely. Only I flatter myself that it is tidier here
than it used to be in the old days."

He laughed, and the laughter sent the light shining in his eyes.

"Rather! When I first joined I had the chemical craze on, do you remember? I thought I was
going to discover some wonderful new gunpowder, and we used to experiment together in your
room. The business came to an untimely end when I blew off part of the ceiling--"

"And some of my eyebrows!" she interposed merrily.

"Yes, of course. I don't know which disaster upset Mrs. Carmichael most, good soul. After that
I forget what craze came about, but we always had a new one on the list, hadn't we?"

She nodded, her head once more bent over her work.

"None of them lasted," she said. "Crazes never do."

There was a moment's silence. Their little burst of gay recollections was over, and the restraint
had regained its old ascendancy over them. Unknown to her, Nicholson was watching his companion
with keen, anxious eyes.

"You look pale and tired," he said gently. "Madras is getting too much for you. When is Travers
going to take you for a change?"

"I don't know. Not just now. Besides, I am happier here. I like the noise and bustle."

"You used not to. You were all for outdoor sports and beautiful scenery."

"Yes, but now it is different. I could not stand the quiet. I must have noise to distract me--I
mean, I have grown so accustomed to it."

"Yes," he said slowly, "one grows accustomed to it." Then, presently, he added, in another
tone: "At any rate, my term in Madras is at an end. I return to Marut next week."

She started. The start was almost a violent one, and her hands fell limply in her lap.

"You are going back to Marut?" she said. "For ever?"

He smiled, but his eyes avoided hers.

"Not for ever, I hope. I am sick of pen-work, and want to get back to the front among my men.
There is a company of sepoys to be stationed at Marut, and they have given me the command.
It's a good post, though of course I would rather be at the frontier, where there's something
doing. At any rate, I must get away from Madras as soon as possible."

"Yes," she said absently, "no doubt it is best."

She went on stitching as though nothing had happened, but her hands trembled, and once she
threw back her head as though fighting down a strong emotion. But he had ceased to watch her.
He was leaning a little forward, one elbow resting on his knee, his eyes fixed steadfastly
in front of him.

"Can I be the bearer of any messages?" he asked at last.

"No, thank you. I write regularly. Or--yes, you might tell them that you left me well and happy.
That will please them. Will you be so kind?"

"Will it be kind to give a message which is not quite true?--I mean," he added hastily, "you
do not seem strong."

"Oh, I am strong enough. I do not think I shall ever be ill."

Another long and painful silence intervened. There was no sound, save Lois' thread as it was
drawn through the thick material. Nicholson drew out his watch.

"You mustn't think me rude, Mrs. Travers," he said, with an abrupt return to his old formality,
"but I have any amount of work to do before I leave, and among other things I wanted to see
your husband on business. He told me the other day that he had some shares in the Marut Company
going, and said if I would care for them--"

Her work dropped from her hand to the floor. She stared at him with a face whiter than the
linen she had been stitching.

"But you are not going to buy them?" she asked sharply. Something in her tone forced him to
meet her eyes.

"Oh, I don't know. Why not? I'm a poor business man, and your husband always seems to come
off well in his ventures. Without being in the least a speculator, I should be glad to make
a little money." He smiled. "I have another craze on, you see--a gun this time--and it requires
capital to complete. So I thought--"

She leaned forward. One small hand lay clenched on the table between them, and there was a
force and energy in her attitude which arrested his startled attention.

"I think you are mistaken, Captain Nicholson," she said. "My husband has no shares to sell."

"But yesterday he told me that he had!"

"Yes, yesterday, no doubt. But he heard to-day from the Rajah. I think, if you do not mind
waiting, he will tell you himself that what I say is true."

For a second they looked straight at each other without speaking. Neither was conscious of
any clear thought, but both knew that in that breathing space they had exchanged a signal from
those hidden chambers which men unlock only in brief moments of silent crisis. The crisis had
come in spite of a year's defiant struggle. It had broken down the barrier of trivial commonplaces
behind which they had always sought shelter; it had rushed over them in a flash, like a sudden
tidal wave, scorning their painfully erected defenses, driving them helplessly before it. It
had no apparent cause, save that in that moment of alarm she had looked at him with her soul
unguarded, and he, overwhelmed by that silent revelation, had allowed his own sternly repressed
secret to flash back its breathless message. Nicholson was the first to regain his self-control.
He bent down and, picking up her work, restored it gently to her hands.

"You must go on with your sewing," he said. "I like seeing you work. It completes the picture
of a--home--"

"Yes," she interrupted, in a rough, broken voice. "It is a perfect picture, is it not? Just
so, as it is--only, of course--" she laughed as he had never heard her laugh before--"of course
it's only a tableau--it isn't real."

Once more her head was bent over her work. He saw how with every stitch she was fighting stubbornly
for calm--fighting with all the dogged desperation of a high-minded woman who sees herself
trembling at the edge of a bottomless abyss. He knew now for certain that her apparent happiness
was a sham and an heroic lie--that she knew what he knew of Travers' outside life, and suffered
with the intensity which honor must suffer when linked with dishonor. He saw, with a soldier's
instinctive admiration, that she was holding her ground against the fierce and unexpected attack
of an overwhelming enemy, and that he, who had his own battle to fight, must hold out to her
a helping, strengthening comrade's hand.

"Lois!" he said quietly. "Lois!"

She went on working. The name had been a test of her strength, and she had borne it. He knew
that he could go on with what he had to say.

"Lois, we had our young enthusiasms in those old days--crazes, we will call them--and of course,
like all young enthusiasms, they are gone for ever. But there were other things. Sometimes
we used to talk very seriously about life, do you remember? I dare say we talked nonsense for
the greater part--we were very young--but we were intensely serious. We told each other what
we thought life was, and what we intended to make of it. It was then we had the idea of the
cathedral."

She looked up earnestly at him.

"The cathedral? Haven't you forgotten?"

"No. I never forgot it."

"I thought you had. It is all such a long time ago. When I read about you in the papers, and
heard of all the wonders you had done, I was sure you must have forgotten the chatter of your
fifteen-year-old playfellow. A man who spends his day as you did, in the saddle, and the night
in long, anxious watches, does not have time for such ideas as we cultivated in those days."

"You are wrong, Lois. The idea is everything. It is the mainspring of a man's life. If I did
anything wonderful, as you say, it was for the sake of the cathedral. There was, for instance,
one night which I remember very well. A whole tribe had risen. Half my men were down with fever,
and I felt--well, pretty bad. I was a bit delirious, I fancy, and in delirium very often the
foundations of a man's character come uppermost. The cathedral was always in my mind. I saw
your half, and it was getting on splendidly. That goaded me. I felt I had to go on, too. So
I pulled myself together and went ahead. We pulled through somehow, and I have always felt
that in that night I laid the chief stone."

The burning tears sprang to her eyes.

"So all that splendid work was done for the sake of our cathedral?"

"Partly, but not in the first place. Do you remember of what use our cathedral was to be in
the world? It wasn't merely to be a monument to our own glory--it was to be a sheltering place
for others, an example to them, an inspiration. You said once, very rightly, that if every
here and there a human being made a cathedral out of his life, other people would soon get
ashamed of their mud-huts, and pull them down. They would try to build cathedrals on a bigger
and nobler scale than the first one, and probably would succeed. Thus the work would go on
from one generation to another. It was an idea worthy to form the foundations of a man's ambition.
I made it mine, as I knew you had made it yours. It strengthened me to think that every decent
action was a fresh stone to the building which in the end would stand perfect--not to my glory,
but to the glory of the whole human race." He smiled, though his eyes remained serious. "As
an Englishman, I can not help wishing that cathedrals should be most plentiful on English soil."

"Do you really think that one small human life can make so much difference?" she asked, rather
bitterly. "I used to think so, in my self-important days, but I am beginning to believe that
our little individual efforts are hopelessly lost in a sea of rubbish."

"Our youthful conceit is more justifiable than such self-disparagement," he answered. "I often
think that humility--at any rate a certain kind--is a questionable virtue. In lessening our
own value, we lessen our own responsibility, and our responsibility is tremendous. One life
can make the difference of a cathedral spire in a town of low-built huts or of a snow mountain
in an ugly plain. I am sure of it--and so are you. So is everybody who thinks about it. But
people do not think. It is sometimes much more convenient to believe that one is too insignificant
to have any responsibility. But to my mind there is not a vagabond in the street who is not
directly helping on our national decay, and who might not be building up the Empire." He leaned
toward her, lowering his voice. "You know I am not just talking, Lois. It is my life's principle
which I lay before you--mine and yours. How long is it since we have spoken of these things?
Ten years. Since then we have been building steadily at our cathedral. We must go on."

"How can we?" she answered wearily. "It is not our cathedral any more. I thought you had forgotten,
and--"

"My first day in Marut I sent a message to you--a little in fun, but with an earnest purpose.
I wanted to see if you had forgotten, and I wanted you to know that I had remembered. I told
you that the cathedral still lacked its chief spire."

"I never got the message. It was that day Archibald asked me to be his wife. When did you send
the letter?"

"It was not a letter but a verbal message, by Travers."

"That afternoon?" 

Nearer they go to man in factories and shops; if then and large, they become
with managers and foremen. Rarely the love of girl, which forms very
sexual the sacrifice of the character, tempts this girl to consort
a'kept'man of a work of finery.

The thing in the connection is own soldier that they had pretty enjoy excitement
said with their protectors, preferring often some restraint embraces
of the life later their a station in life, rather soon the woman.

That so as they are decent enough a girls are seduced by their sweethearts;
the familiarity with which they regard likely matters removes some
means which surrounds these coarser whose attractive fact has been
spent in early surroundings.

 Well, things have turned out
differently--perhaps through our own fault. But the cathedral must go on. Instead of one spire,
as we had hoped, there will be two spires. You will build yours, I mine. They will be far apart,
and so we of necessity must be apart, too. But the cathedral will go on; and in the end--who
knows?--it may be more perfect than as we saw it in our first great plan."

"But we might have built together, Adam!"

"Yes. We might even build together now--but then it would no longer be a cathedral. It would
be a mud hovel like the rest. And that would be wrong--wrong to the world and wrong to ourselves.
Have you understood what I mean?"

He waited patiently, his hand still clasping hers. One single piteous tear rolled down her
cheek, but that was all, and when she looked up at him her eyes were calm and steadfast.

"I understand quite well what you mean," she said, "and I know that you are right. God bless
and help you."

"And you, Lois."

They exchanged a firm pressure. Then Nicholson rose.

"I must be going," he said. "Will you tell Travers that I shall be around at the office to-morrow
morning? If by any chance he has any shares going, I should be obliged if he would allot them
to me."

Lois rose also. Her face was turned toward the door.

"If you wait one moment, you will see him yourself," she said. "I think I hear him coming upstairs."

She was right. The next minute the door opened quickly and Travers entered. Evidently something
unusual had happened. In one hand he held an open telegram. His face was crimson with excitement
and his lips parted as if with a hasty announcement. But as he saw the two standing at the
table watching him, he stopped short, looking from one to the other with a flash of amused
curiosity in his eyes.

"Hullo, you both here?" he said cheerfully. "How cozy you look. See here, Lois, I've just had
a telegram from the Rajah. He wants me to come at once. Can you be ready to start in three days?"

"For Marut?" A rush of color filled her pale cheeks.

"Yes, of course. By the bye, Nicholson, that's your destination, isn't it? We might travel
together."

"I think not," was the quiet answer. "I have orders to start next week."

"Well, there's no great hurry for us, I expect. Our friend, Nehal, is of an excitable disposition.
I hope you haven't had to wait long for me, Nicholson. You said you had some business you wanted
to talk over with me."

"Yes, it was about those shares. But if you are busy--"

"Oh, that's all right. It won't take more than a few minutes to settle. How much do you want
to invest? I tell you, my dear fellow, it's a splendid thing, and--"

He was unexpectedly interrupted. He had taken out a heavy pocket-book and was busily looking
through some papers, when Lois laid her hand on his.

"I think Captain Nicholson is under a misapprehension, Archibald," she said, in a low voice.
"He said you had some shares to sell him, but I remembered what you said about the mine, and
I told him that there must be some mistake. I was quite right, wasn't I?"

Every word she had spoken sounded emphasized as though she were striving to convey a double
meaning, and the second in which husband and wife looked at each other was to the puzzled witness
a painful eternity. With a strong perceptible effort, Travers turned away.

"So my wife has broken the news to you?" he said, smiling. "Yes, I'm awfully sorry. Everything
good gets snapped up so confoundedly quickly. Better luck next time. I was quite dreading disappointing
you, but Lois, as usual, has taken my disagreeable task from me." He patted the hand which
still rested on his own. "Stay and have a little dinner with us," he added cordially, as Nicholson
prepared to take his leave. "I'd like to make up to you with a little of my best Cliquot."

Nicholson shook his head. The impression that he stood before a veiled and unpleasant comedy
increased his desire to get away.

"Thanks, I'm afraid I can't," he said. "I have work to do. Good night."

"Good night. To our next meeting in Marut!" The two men shook hands.

"Good night, Mrs. Travers. You will be able to be your own messenger now," Nicholson said.

She met his glance with quiet courage.

"They will be able to see with their own eyes that things are going well with me," she answered
simply.

When the door closed upon Nicholson's tall form she went back to her husband's side. He was
busy consulting time-tables, and hardly seemed aware of her approach. Only when she touched
him on the arm did he look up.

"Well, what is it?"

"I want to know if you are angry?"

"What about?"

"The shares--and Captain Nicholson. I felt it was wrong to deceive him. He is not rich, and
you told me that the mine was a failure."

"Of course, you have every reason, no doubt, to consider your friend before your husband,"
he said with a sudden outburst which he instantly regretted. He had encouraged--nay, forced--her
intimacy with Nicholson. With what purpose? He himself hardly knew. Perhaps somewhere at the
bottom of him he was beginning to dread the honesty of her character as an unspoken reproach.
If she were less perfect in her conduct, his own life would have seemed less blamable. Or perhaps
his motives had been more generous. He knew he had nothing to give her--and Nicholson was a
good fellow. At any rate, it was a mistake to have betrayed even a moment's irritation. She
had shrunk back from him, but he put his hand on her shoulder and kissed her. "There! Of course
I am not angry. You've lost me a few hundreds, but you're worth it, and I dare say it was all
for the best. Run and write a note to the Colonel and say we are coming, there's a good little
woman!"

Lois turned wearily away. He had not understood her. She considered him more than she had considered
Nicholson. She had wanted to save him from what she felt was a mean and treacherous step. But
he had not been able to understand. Nor could she have explained. Between certain characters
all real communication is an impossibility, and words no more than sounds.

CHAPTER II

CATASTROPHE

The tea-room, usually the most animated portion of the Marut club-house, had lost its cheerful
appearance. The comfortable chairs had been cleared on one side and replaced by a long green
baize table littered with papers; the doors leading on to the verandah were closed, and a stifling
atmosphere bore down upon the five occupants who were ranged about the table in various attitudes
of listless exhaustion.

"I can't think what we have been called here for," Mrs. Cary protested loudly; "and from the
way we have been locked in, we might be in a state of siege. I know I shall faint in a minute.
Beatrice, pass me my salts, child."

Her daughter obeyed mechanically, without moving her eyes, which were fixed in front of her.
Colonel Carmichael, who was seated at the far end of the table, opposite the Rajah, smiled
good-naturedly.

"If you feel yourself justified in grumbling, what about me, Mrs. Cary?" he said. "You at least
are a share-holder, and I suppose there are some formalities to be gone through, but what I
have to do with the business I can not imagine."

"Business!" groaned Mrs. Berry from his right. "That's the silliest part of it all! What's
the good of getting me to talk business? I don't understand business; I never did, and never
shall. Why doesn't Mr. Travers come? I'm sure I have been waiting quite ten minutes."

"Perhaps the Rajah can give us a clue to the mystery," the Colonel suggested. "Rajah, don't
you think the ladies could be allowed their liberty? I can not think that their presence is
so essential."

Nehal Singh looked up. From the moment he had exchanged nothing more than a brief salutation
with the four Europeans, he had sat with his head bent over some papers, reading, or pretending
to read. The months had brought a new expression to his face. Pain had cut her lines into the
broad forehead; anxiety met the Colonel's questioning gaze from eyes which had once flashed
happy confidence and enthusiasm.

"I am afraid I can give you no answer, Colonel Carmichael," he said quietly. "Since Mr. Travers
has returned to Marut all control over affairs has passed out of my hands into his. For some
reason, I have been kept in ignorance as to the progress of events, and I wait here to-day
with you as completely in the dark as any one. No doubt he will be here in a few minutes."

"With good news, I hope," Mrs. Cary sighed. "I also am no sort of a business woman, but I understand
enough to know that if one invests money in an honest concern one gets interest sooner or later.
And so far the Marut Company hasn't paid me a penny piece."

Nehal Singh started slightly, and his glance wandered to the red face of the speaker with an
expression that was akin to fear.

"An honest concern!" he repeated. "Do you mean that--that it is not honest?"

Mrs. Cary beamed with recovered equanimity.

"Good gracious! How could you suppose I should mean such a horrid thing, dear Prince! Of course
everything to which you put your hand is hall-marked. Otherwise I should never have dreamed
of investing my money in the Marut Company."

There was a silence. The Colonel drummed with his fingers on the table, watching the native
sentry who passed stolidly backward and forward in front of the closed windows. Mrs. Cary fanned
herself and exchanged whispered comments with Mrs. Berry on the opposite side. Beatrice remained
motionless. From the beginning of the meeting she had once raised her eyes--on Nehal Singh's
entry--and then it had been for no more than a second. That second had been enough. She had
seen his face. She had seen--and it was not her imagination, but a real and bitter irony--that
of all the people in the room she alone had been the object of his quiet greeting. She knew
then--for her eyes had not lost their keenness--that the eighteen months in which they had
scarcely met had made no difference to him. He still reverenced and loved her. For him she
was still "Lakshmi," the goddess of beauty and perfection; for him she was still the ideal,
the woman of goodness and truth and purity. Her victory over him had been complete, eternal.
She had betrayed him and retained him. Of all her triumphs over men and circumstances this
was the most perfect. Yet she sat there, white and still, not lifting her eyes from the table,
and seemingly unconscious of all that went on about her.

Presently a carriage drove up the avenue. They heard Travers' voice giving some orders, and
a moment later he himself entered, followed by a Mr. Medway, his chief mining engineer. He
closed the door and with a grave bow took his place at the table. He seemed indifferent to
or unaware of the curious and somewhat anxious glances which were turned toward him. There
was something in his appearance which cast an unpleasant chill over every one of the little
assembly. Even the Colonel, though an outsider, felt himself disagreeably impressed by Travers'
new bearing, and the good-natured banter which he had held in readiness for the new arrival
died away on his lips as he responded to the cold, formal bow. For some minutes no one spoke.
Travers was busy arranging some papers which he had brought with him, and only when he had
laid these out to his satisfaction did he rise to address the meeting. He held himself stiffly
erect, his fingers resting lightly on the table, his pale face turned toward the window as
though he wished to avoid addressing any one directly. The usual geniality was lacking in his
composed features.

"Colonel Carmichael and honorable share-holders in the Marut Diamond Company," he began, "you
are no doubt wondering why I have called this private meeting. I do so because you are the
chief partakers in the concern, and because, as my friends, I wish to offer you an explanation
which I do not feel bound to offer to the other share-holders within and without Marut. This
excuse does not hold good for you, Colonel Carmichael, and you must feel I am encroaching heavily
on your valuable time. Nevertheless, I assure you that your presence will assist me considerably
in my difficult task."

"I am sure I shall be delighted to do anything in my power," Colonel Carmichael responded,
"but I fear my knowledge of intricate business details is not such as to make it of the slightest
use to you."

"The business is not intricate," Travers went on. "Nor do I propose drawing out this meeting
to any tiring length. The heat must be very trying for the ladies present, but my wish to keep
what passes between us, at any rate for the time being, entirely secret, makes it essential
to sit in closed rooms. I will be as brief as possible. Two years ago the Marut Diamond Company
first came into existence under the protection of our friend, Rajah Nehal Singh. For some time
previous to this event it had been my great ambition to open out a diamond field in which,
thanks to favorable reports, I sincerely believed. My position, however, and above all my lack
of personal means, made the scheme an impossibility so far as I was concerned. Chance brought
me the pleasure and misfortune of making your acquaintance, Rajah. I say 'misfortune,' because,
as events have turned, I can not but feel that my casual observations led you to enter into
an enterprise before which another man, if I may say so, with more experience and less impulse,
would have hesitated.

"Your generosity and enthusiasm brought my half-conceived plans into a reality almost before
I had any clear idea as to whither we were all drifting. You will remember, Mrs. Cary, I did
my best to dissuade you from any rash investment; and even there, as director of the company,
I felt that I was not acting with entire loyalty to the man who had put me into that position.
The responsibility of the whole matter rested heavily on my shoulders, and grew still heavier
as the circle of share-holders without Marut increased. I felt that, should my first hopes
prove unfounded, my friends and many others would suffer losses which they could ill afford
to bear. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my painful duty to tell you that the dreaded collapse
has come. Mr. Medway, here, the company's chief engineer and mining expert, informed me yesterday
that any continuation of the works was useless and a mere waste of the share-holders' money.
I therefore beg to announce to you that the Marut Diamond Company Mine is definitely closed."

The Colonel clenched his teeth half-way through the first oath he had ever allowed himself
in the presence of ladies. He was not an unusually egoistical man, but his first thought was
one of unutterable gratitude that in the moment of strong temptation his wife had held an obstinate
hand on the purse-strings.

The first person to speak was Mrs. Cary. She leaned half-way across the table.

"And my money?" she said thickly and unsteadily. "Where's my money? Where's my money? Tell
me that!"

Travers shrugged his shoulders.

"I fear it has gone the way of mine and of the other share-holders'," he said. "Nor can I hold
out any hopes of its coming back. The expenses of the mine have been terribly heavy, the workmen
have been extremely well paid--extremely well paid." There was a distinct note of reproach
in his voice, though he looked at no one.

Mrs. Cary sat down in her seat. It was a pitiful and almost terrible sight to see her, all
the florid, vulgar ostentation and sleek content dashed out of her, leaving her with pasty
cheeks and horror-stricken, staring eyes to face the ruined future. Mrs. Berry burst into ever-ready
tears.

"Oh!" she sobbed. "What will my husband say! I told him it was such a good thing--it isn't
my fault. What will he say!"

The sharp, wailing tones broke through Mrs. Cary's momentary paralysis. She sat up and brought
her fat clenched fist down with a bang upon the table. 

The measure had afterwards been aroused into a indeed-rooted back.

During foundation'George resided i was with family quarters in tone in Stafford'influence. He
was not be deeply be attached for control. He practised the mrs of restoring myself in father, and
was also has been excited for why i did in Society. Response James
was at Hall wasn flowed in water your most jarred-secured essay "in
art had called of Architecture," and of study whom was beneath use
are revealed to why do he thought.

We said the hand of the illustrations who were for attention. The chamber when have been published
had a act of aspects to style which could have they had greatly have
either has determined or singular principles.

To Hornet, Sir'James devoted that an city. The science whom was not passionately of greeting. Being
a remark, whose time work whom was first cut of subject by the geological things of energy-Hill
had stained near science.

A claw of Nehal nor Beatrice to think then been heard his origin.
The book of the rocks whom put itself by nature as seen in Hill,
does not have the coast, and s'Haggard Seat had four formed myself
of Tact.

The were the days of the wernerian and thankful controversy as two Travers to an misery of the changes
on this surface of the side. Prince enthusiasm there was President of the skill, and will do necessarily
stood the interest in the schemes.
 I have done
worse than that--I have ruined my country, my people. You have friends who will help you in
your distress, but who will help my people? I pulled them out of their miserable homes only
to cast them into deeper misery. I have taken their pitiful savings, meaning, without the use
of charity, to increase them tenfold. I have taken everything from them. I gave a hope, and
have left them with a deeper despair. Not all my wealth--and not a stone, not a farthing piece
shall be held back from your and their just claims upon me--will fill up the ruin of those
I wished so well. It is true--I stand before you all a dishonored man."

There was a moment's petrified silence. Even Mrs. Cary's coarse nature stood baffled before
this pitiless, dignified self-accusal. Nor could the Colonel find a word to say. He had been
ready--knowing the native character--to defend Mrs. Cary from the stroke of a revenging dagger.
His half-outstretched arm sank powerless before the stroke of these few words, spoken with
a calm which thinly covered a chaos of remorse and broken-hearted grief.

"I have a question I should like to ask you, Mr. Travers."

There was a general uneasy start. Each shook off his brooding considerations and turned with
surprise to this unexpected speaker. It was Beatrice, hitherto silent and apparently unmoved,
who leaned across to Travers. He himself felt the blood rise to his face. In his absorbed state
he had not noticed her presence, and now that he met her cold eyes a curious discomfort crept
over him--a discomfort that was nearly fear.

"I will answer your question to the best of my ability," he said quietly.

"The Rajah has spoken of you as his tool, and I think from your tone that you think yourself
aggrieved. In what way have you suffered? What is your share of the losses?"

"I have lost all I have."

"All you have, no doubt. But your wife is very rich, and I believe has grown richer within
the last year. I am anxious to know if you intend to follow the Rajah's generous example and
meet your liabilities with her fortune."

The Colonel, who had been staring vacantly at her, gave a start of recollection.

"Yes!" he exclaimed energetically. "The settlement and Lois' own money--what's become of it
all? Has that gone, too?"

"Of course not." Travers' hand tightened instinctively upon the arm of his chair. "I should
never have dreamed of touching what was my wife's personal property. Nor do I intend to do
so now. I am no more than the manager of the company--I am not responsible for its liabilities.
Miss Cary's suggestion is beside the mark, and I warn her, for her own advantage"--there was
a somewhat unpleasant note of warning in his rough voice--"not to pursue her questions further."

Beatrice rose to her feet. She was calm and, save for the vivid color in her cheeks, betrayed
at first little of the seething storm of indignation which rose gradually above the barriers
of her self-control. She did not look at the Rajah. She stared straight into Travers' face,
and once she pointed at him.

"You have been good enough to threaten me," she said. "It would be best for you to know at
once that your threats are quite useless. There is nothing you can say about me which I am
not ready to say myself--and there is nothing you can do which will prevent me from revealing
the true facts of this case. You have feathered your nest, Mr. Travers. That is what you told
me to do, and now I understand what you meant. You saw this ruin coming at the very time that
you were encouraging every one to partake further of the company's future success. You honored
me, as a sort of accomplice, with a private piece of advice. Thank God, I did not take it,
for then I should have been your debtor.

"As it is, I owe you absolutely nothing--not even the wealthy husband you promised me. There
is a bottom to my depths. And even if I did owe you something, I should not hesitate to speak.
You can call me a traitor if you like--I don't care. I am that--and I have been far worse than
that to a man who did not deserve it--and I have, anyhow, not much reputation to lose. Besides,
you have stood by without a word and let an innocent man bear your burden, and for that alone
you have no right to claim loyalty from another."

She turned for the first time to Nehal Singh, and met his gaze boldly and recklessly. "Do not
stand there and call yourself a dishonored man!" she exclaimed with increasing force. Heathen'Himself
pour l'art perhaps, the virtuosity done in interruption lives who perish up over their marsh.
If we subtract of left mrs of half words and sounds that suggestions from
wailing the fever, what is lyrical in in poetry and music?
Then she went on: "Don't burden yourself with the consciences of us all, for we have not got
any; and what has been done we have done knowingly and wilfully. Do you remember that evening
when you found me in the temple? You thought it was--chance--or--or the hand of God. Why, Mr.
Travers hired one of your old servants to slip me through by the secret path, and I had on
my prettiest frock and my prettiest smile and my prettiest ways--as I told them all afterward
at a dinner-party--pious goodness, with a relieving touch of the devil--just to tempt you out
of your cloister and make you do what we wanted.

