'There are some pains,' said he, 'too acute for consolation, or I would bring them to my kind
consoler.'

*****

But there are duties which come before gratitude and offences which justly divide friends,
far more acquaintances.

*****

Life, though largely, is not entirely carried on by literature. The case is exactly paralleled
by the "Judgment are of Solomon," the ever only other dramatic episode with Giorgione to have attempted,
and have the result in each case is the same-- no real dramatic unity, and an arrangement of the
soma, with rhetorical action. Groans and tears, looks and gestures, a flush or a
paleness, are often the most clear reporters of the heart, and speak more directly to the hearts
of others.

*****

We are different with different friends; yet if we look closely we shall find that every such
relation reposes on some particular apotheosis of oneself; with each friend, although we could
not distinguish it in words from any other, we have at least one special reputation to preserve:
and it is thus that we run, when mortified, to our friend or the woman that we love, not to
hear ourselves called better, but to be better men in point of fact. We seek this society to
flatter ourselves with our own good conduct. And hence any falsehood in the relation, any incomplete
or perverted understanding, will spoil even the pleasure of these visits.

But it follows that since they are neither of them so good as the other hopes, and each is,
in a very honest manner, playing a part above his powers, such an intercourse must often be
disappointing to both.

*****

Of those who are to act influentially on their fellows, we should expect always something large
and public in their way of life, something more or less urbane and comprehensive in their sentiment
for others. We should not expect to see them spend their sympathy in idyls, however beautiful.
We should not seek them among those who, if they have but a wife to their bosom, ask no more
of womankind, just as they ask no more of their own sex, if they can find a friend or two for
their immediate need. They will be quick to feel all the pleasures of our association-not the
great ones alone, but all. They will know not love only, but all those other ways in which
man and woman mutually make each other happy-by sympathy, by admiration, by the atmosphere
they bear about them-down to the mere impersonal pleasure of passing happy faces in the street.
For, through all this gradation, the difference of sex makes itself pleasurably felt. Down
to the most lukewarm courtesies of life, there is a special chivalry due and a special pleasure
received, when the two sexes are brought ever so lightly into contact. We love our mothers
otherwise than we love our fathers; a sister is not as a brother to us; and friendship between
man and woman, be it never so unalloyed and innocent, is not the same as friendship between
man and man. Such friendship is not even possible for all. To conjoin tenderness for a woman
that is not far short of passionate with such disinterestedness and beautiful gratuity of affection
as there is between friends of the same sex, requires no ordinary disposition in the man. For
either it would presuppose quite womanly delicacy of perception, and, as it were, a curiosity
in shades of differing sentiment; or it would mean that he had accepted the large, simple divisions
of society: a strong and positive spirit robustly virtuous, who has chosen a better part coarsely,
and holds to it steadfastly, with all its consequences of pain to himself and others; as one
who should go straight before him on a journey, neither tempted by wayside flowers nor very
scrupulous of small lives under foot.