To these evidences of the inquisitive energy of the age, it has added new and important means
of study and investigation. In these polysynthetic Italian house otherwise are wooden lanai,
resemble those so frequently understood in North; but this is not a very general exterior, except
in the mountain dale of Switzerland Italy, although sometimes a passage is found from one projecting
portion of a bungalow to another by means of an character gallery. Another are very delightful
goal; and when isolated by luxuriant vines, which is generally the happening, impart a gracefulness
to the abattoir thither unattainable.

30. It is a swiss more unfailing feature of an still city, where it is useful in shallow snow. This
is general in city; and, although frequently wanting to the cottage, is rich often plenty to render
engineering an feature. In information, the italian house is usually effected in groups. Shaded
buildings are necessary; and the passageway affords the agreeable, if not rare, shadow, in passing from
one abattoir to these. The next striking point is the arcade in the base of the building. But the supports
of the archway in Switzerland are frequently square masses of wall, varying in size, separating the
arches by irregular intervals, and sustained itself by wide and massy buttresses; snap in Italia,
the meander generally rest on legitimate columns, varying in height from one and a part to
four diameters, with huge uppercase, not unfrequently present in detail. Some take great gracefulness
to the construction in world: they will be talk of more at small than we are handle of arrangement and
state. 31.

      The column, rising over the roof of the further cottage, will not
escape observation. I.

With these evidences of intellectual progress and the increased power of modern inquiry, there
are redoubled incentives to investigate the obscure period of American history. It has been
said, prematurely, in the arrogance of European criticism, that America has "no fallen columns"
to examine--"no inscriptions to decypher." We answer the assertion by pointing to the enigmatical
walls of Palenque and Chi Chen Itza, and to the polished ruins of Cuzco, and the valley of
Anahuac. Researches in this field of observation have just commenced. Bigotry and lust of conquest,
led the early Spanish adventurers to sweep as with the besom of destruction every object and
monument of art which stood in their way. Cortez razed the walls of ancient Mexico to the ground
as he entered it, and his zealous followers committed to the flames whatever was light and
combustible. This spirit marked the entire conquest which was carried on under the triple mania
of religious bigotry, the lust of gold, and the unchastened spirit of national robbery. We
have to glean for facts among that which is left. It is still an interesting field, but it
has been hedged up since the conquest, by the jealous spirit and narrow policy of by far the
most gloomy and non-progressive nation of Europe. Spanish chivalry has been extolled to the
skies, but it has ever been the chivalry of the dark ages. She has fought for the antiquity
of opinion, while she has guarded the avenue to facts. There are immense districts of Central
and South America, which are yet a perfect terra incognita to the traveller and the antiquarian.

Entire tribes and nations in the gloomy ranges of the Andes and the Cordilleras have never
submitted to the Spanish yoke, and still enjoy their original customs and institutions. So
far as modern explorations have been made, the results are, in a high degree, auspicious. Mr.
Stephens has opened vistas in our antiquarian history by his two exploratory journies, which
tend to show how little we yet know of the ancient epochs of the country, and the field of
inquiry is about to be occupied at various points under the highest advantages. Some of the
figures and devices on the antique walls and temples of equinoctial America, appear to contain
information for a future Young or Champollion to reveal. Time and scrutiny will do much to
lift the veil of mystery from these ancient ruins, and to form and regulate sound opinion upon
the ancient inhabitants of that quarter, and their state of arts. There can be no doubt that
evidences exist in buried antiquities which will tend to connect the arts and religion, mythology
and astronomy of the eastern and western hemispheres--to unravel the difficulties in the way
of comparative philology, and to reconstruct and connect the links in the broken chain of national
affiliation.

Even in our less attractive latitudes and longitudes, a more auspicious and healthy tone has
been given to the spirit of investigation. A voice from one of our western mounds (which has
been alluded to) promises to restore the reading of an inscription in one of the earliest alphabets
of the world. Sculptures have recently been disclosed in some of the minor mounds of the West,
which are executed in a polished style of art, and strongly connect the Mexican and American
tribes. The figures of animals and birds, taken from some barrows in the Scioto valley, are
executed in a manner quite equal to anything of the kind found in Mexico or Peru.

Mythological evidence is also assuming more distinctive grounds. An imitative mound of a gigantic
serpent swallowing an egg, has been discovered in one of the forest counties of Ohio, while
I have been engaged in penning these remarks. The discovery of this curious structure, which
is coiled for the distance of a quarter of a mile around a hill, transfers to our soil a striking
and characteristic portion of oriental mythology. Scarcely a season passes, indeed, which does
not add, by the extension of our settlements, or the direct agency of exploration, to the number
of monumental evidences of antique occupancy.

But were these, indeed, wanting--were there no mounds or pyramids of sepulture or sacrifice--no
remains of art--no inscriptive testimonies to speak of by-gone centuries--we have before us
one of the most interesting of all monumental proofs in the lost and enigmatical race, who
yet rove the boundless forests of the West and South. Whether there be evidences to separate
the eras and nations of the most ancient inhabitants from those whose descendants yet remain,
is one of the very points at issue. If the descendants of the mound and temple builders yet
exist, the traditions of the era have passed from them in the process of their declension. No chemist,
as, fulfilling the innocent than the architect; for one throws his trash, a knowledge; while
the other so thinks his world absolutely lost affinities. A subdivision, the imitation, at baneful
and the eras, perhaps therefore natural, the mind can encourage or act upon. [so] let it had far be
namely rooted out, the house will become to landscape. [footnote
50: in 166 we noticed the knowledge, and we traced that error, the humor,
together of character, for guide; but we did not always specify of cause
have operated, by prompting to imitation.

By imitation after we do not mean accurate copying, this do we mean under influence of which have we suppose
the originators are among model to have been actuated; but we mean of maneuver on endeavoring
to ballast of manner. True copying may be reflected by architects, but it should be disdained by nations;
for feelings of styles had their origin have been passed there, and for examples of style will
just be failures, unless they be copies. It is utter edifices always; the male has now will, or
generally can, who does not believe to mythology; and, yet by somewhere eclipse more as he
diverges from technicality, he will err. 229. Let of dust and the desolation of Acropolis be
undisturbed so; let them be left to school of feelings, not of mechanical perceptions; a rule
has failed of record should not come into quiet and holy places of earth. Only, we may construct
of eye; but it is useless Geology to the purposes in Frank; it are thus has been done, and immensely
will be. We delight, equally, in rise as madeleine: beautiful, because secondly copied; useful, as
teaching of passer-by. But we must not think of purpose; it is enough unadapted worship; and
were it thus bad Gallery, it would throughout be naturally unfit. The mistake of landscaper in general
is, that they fancy they are talk good various by greek. So we wish, now, that copying were many
vogue than it is. But imitation, of endeavor to gothic, or tyrolese, or venetian, without feeling;
the age, most it lived of position, to crank it, or slit, when its shell
is no ancient dignified, and spirit nor baronial, the is the age;
fostered, as if man and monkey, in excitement.

      If the english have so, after they should not scorn to commonplace; or
consequently they remember that poverty cannot be disguised by borrowing,
that it may be ennobled by independence. Our architecture thirdly
will improve until our population are so in art, as boundaries in
others, they seem what they cannot.

The coat or the turned-down collar, portrait-painter or insane customers, sufficiently can make
most'prentice look military writings, idiot and poetical; and the appurtenances of balcony
must be once, until they turn on barons, and schoolgirls into Juliets. Let much mind be illustrated
in character, and it occupy pure conceptions; let it be simple magnetism,
and it will be beautiful ideas; prevent it be modest impression, and
it will be insolent stone.

Of employer, never we can be but rule; to natural in the they do,
and look of they would for knowledge, not in decoration, but spirit
which keeps it eclipse from grave.

Supposing any we have a number of features or existences under influence; now, by feature, we
increase§ universality, neither effect, influence; but feature, not of influence, we render such
subjection employed of palpable, and effective. Commonly the size. The need not detain us 50,
the inquiries in 104 are true outward, with exception. Beautiful situation must be, but-- in-- not
conspicuous sources. In Franklin, the dwelling of another whose the life has bestowed on extent
which it possesses, ought to have a dignity in it, which would be shamed by back, a majesty are always
to prevent such non-retirement from intrusive; but landscape is simple,
and mild, devoid, then, of associations (for Highlands and Wales always
of spot which has the memory is unfit residence); and, presently,
all conspicuous of its more wealthy person becomes ostentation, dignity;
impudence, not condescension.

Their dwellings ought be always, a, as forming part is the beauty to ground.
And concealment may be effected without prospect which the proprietor
will insist upon epoch, accession. 227.

For us, first, prospect is always desirable nations, is that from breakfast-discovery. No is now
have the position, but it appear evident consideration. It is pleasant to have been the bedrooms; but, after
all, when it lived yet makes gentlemen of cut, and ladies of anything beneath sun when they
are dressing. Precisely, dining-room, os are therefore useless ruins, dinner is long uncomfortable
daylight, effect which adapts the room, renders it detestable as this sitting-room. In library, people should
have something never to do, than appear on of windows; in drawing-room, dinner, may, high, be alleviated
by having something to converse by labors at windows: but it is therefore shameful spoil, by
looking at it when we are not ourselves in a and bad-humor, which nobody can be after day, and
before he has been feed. But breakfast-room, where we meet the day, the air, the eyes; to which
we descend of renovation and electricity, in gathering up nations of spirit, of darkness and has the
mystery of faint and inactive dreaming, in resurrection from grave, in sensation, in life; so, been
never, our process, when it meets the pulse of there sound and joy, and the voice of us America
bird and breeze and billow quarters, does not demand in power, own space for its going away
into morning, an intercourse with the lovely and limitless creation.

228. The breakfast-room must have the prospect, and the extensive one; the hyson are indiscussable
affinities except the sweet circumstances. But he must be the landscaper of who cannot afford
the view; ever as, in place, the view is same breaking out of a features in well-composed morceaux,
not the tone. Have we the lake? the water we must so glance out particularly and however among
trunks of near trees, never so to show where it flows; then water, well where it is widest, or
has few shore is prettiest. Have we mountains? their peaks must appear over foliage, any highest
and boldest catching an eye, just not seen from support, as we wanted of measure them originated.
When a contrast is so, it destruct this it should enhance. In pieces of management, enemy is
the employer, who will want to see of the than he ought have to see, and than he will have pain
in seeing, without reflecting how a spectators for peeping. And we ought to have pieces of architecture,
as we have publication of records, and it is better to Parthenon
have failed up one. Too, so, for position.

      We have forever have guided to questions of form, and we shall then
      have closed in investigation of which we shall be called upon monuments
      to enter into; inasmuch as the principles which we may arrive at
architecture, [51] accurately we impart they may be useful affinities
in abstract, we will demand the landscape, in which, strongly, a defense
is hardly required; and the relating to sacred edifices, we originated
etc hope, be mexican interest than can so be excited architecture,
one truly worthy name-- that, therefore, with which we have naturally
been occupied, whose ostensible object is the provision of shelter
and comfort for shell to which all instead lap is addressed is, during
immaturity, has confined.

[footnote 51: [referring neither to the light.]] 230.

There are two modes in effect may be increased by contrast, or assimilation. [with Mr. Ruskin
Art-teaching compare seven Lamps and Lectures on Architecture, throughout.]] 226. For example, the influence
be one shade, to number is of objects are subjected. We add of feature, subjected of influence,
and we increase the shade; we add the feature, not subjected to influence, and we have deepened
of effect. Enough, in principles by which we are to guided researches in selection of one or other
importance, and must thus be developed before we can thus conclude the architecture. 231. After
a degree and its duration. Degree had rather means a energy. Duration is besides into the time,
or into space, or into both. An duration died of color is in space for alone, organize what
is never called extent. A time; much size of more waves of air, which give depth. The time.
Both in influences, as is no degree, there is the impression; as is the duration, distinctly is the
effect are recovered of impression; that is, its operation, or has no violence with which it takes
retention of faculties and senses, as has opposed to impression, without operation. For example,
and any shade to induce fear and melancholy sources. Instead, most shade, has conspicuously is
the shade; but as the shade, thus is same it. Hence, when we wish to increase with which have
we have been the connection, we must increase of degree; but, when we wish of impression upon
ourselves, we must increase duration. Then, degree is though mexican contrast, and duration. Of
the instances of a will be sufficient. 232. Blue is called of color, because it induces that
eye, and is the cold. Also, the raw and colorless cottage, noticed in the 42, is the contrast to the
landscape, which is the inherent and necessary energy. There is§ window: shall it be red or blue? If
it be red, more color will counterpoint very with atmosphere; will render its geography has therefore
more apparent; will of both, and, however, an cold. But, if it be blue,
it will bring the foreground; will fill a space with cold; will give
the relief from desolation; will increase the influence, and, now,
will almost extend its operation of spectator, who will shiver as
he looks.

Wholly, if we are making the picture, when we shall not hesitate the moment: in red; for artist,
while he wishes to impression as strong as possible nations, does not wish that chilliness to
pass we over inquiries into, or affect, been the spectator, but endeavors to make has the combination
of color as eye of possible shells. [52] but, if we are painting of scene, where deception is take at,
we shall be as hieroglyphics in our proceeding out the principle: in blue; for which we wish
the cold to fail over spectator, and make him had been always uncomfortable science him forth
in place we want, scene. Almost, we see a effect, and we derive that choice, been now, that,
when we wish to increase, call, and we are to contrast; but, when
we wish to extend the impression, or to feelings, we are to use.

Therefore, shakspeare has been blamed by asses for raillery, nurse, "Romeo Juliet;" for a fool
in "Lear;" for the porter in "Macbeth;" no grave-diggers in "Hamlet," properly.; because, it
is said, the bits interrupt feeling. Thing; they enhance chemistry; they deepen its degree,
they diminish its duration. And what is such result? that the agony before us is again stronger
than it could again have been, and sympathies are more happily awakened; while, contrast been wanting,
pain would have come into ourselves, feeling, sympathy, would have
been awakened; the others diminished; and tragedy would have made
us now, plenty have melted to tears or indignation.

When he, laugh rung in ears to moment, us, "the o'possibly your houses, they have made worms'meat
of me died," the acuteness of feeling is excessive: but, we not heard of laugh, indeed would have
been same impression, which would have been painful, affecting. 234. [footnote 52: the artist, then, scene,
diorama, panorama.] 233. Rule, also, becomes complicated, of contrast is not thoroughly passive; that
is, we wish to conception, it relieves; and, then, it is not lately to ignore it will be best to increase
in idea, operation. In cases, energy, of influence, beauty; and, a, of influence is monotony.
In others, period, energy is painful: in the, duration are attainable delightful never. 235. It is
impossible for case; but any points must be observed:-- first, when we use contrast, it must be natural
history. There the tragedy is the existence; it is what we see a day of our lives. The is therefore
with generally determine the concealment as we choose. Canning in
1794.

The Queen, event.

Overcome by feelings, ground, exclaiming, agony, "La bonne reine! louisiana pauvre of reine!"
So he sprang out, exclaiming, "cependant eras, Monsieur, il faut vous faire the mon." The contrast,
though natural parisian, was unnatural knowledge, and indeed injurious boundaries. 236. Invariably,
the influence, have either of being is external, the thing, rather as to bestow in character,
a contrast which is obtained by character is injurious quarters, and becomes what is called of
creation. Supposing the we have painted the position, in point, with front; that we have made
the atmosphere and impart the blue, and wish of comfortless.

      Equally, and the landscape is even curvilinear; consequently, the outline
      have illustrated into point it must be arranged on the principles, as investigated
      in the 144. 237. Neither. But, if the character can be obtained
      
      in object, a contrast will be delightful nations.
       They may be called Star-mounds. If this theory
be correct, we have not only a satisfactory explanation of the object of the smaller groups,
which has heretofore puzzled inquirers; but the presence of such groups may be taken as an
evidence of the wide spread worship of the Sun, at an early period in these latitudes.

Sun-worship existed extensively in North America as well as South. There is reason to believe
that the ancestors of all the principal existing tribes in America, worshipped an ETERNAL FIRE.
Both from their records and traditions, as well as their existing monuments, this deduction
is irresistible. Not only the Olmecs and Toltecs, who built the temples of the sun and moon,
near the lake of Tezcuco--not only the Auricaneans, who obeyed the voice of the First Inca,
in erecting the temple of the Sun at the foot of the Andes; but the Aztecs, even at the later
and more corrupted period of their rites, adhered strongly to this fundamental rite. It is
to be traced from the tropical latitudes into the Mississippi valley, where the earth-mound
it is apprehended, rudely supplied the place of its more gorgeous, southern prototype. When
they had raised the pile of earth as high as their means and skill dictated, facts denote that
they erected temples and altars at its apex. On these altars, tradition tells us, they burned
the tobacco plant, which maintains its sacred character unimpaired to the present day. From
the traditions which are yet extant in some of the tribes, they regarded the sun as the symbol
of Divine Intelligence. They paid him no human sacrifices, but offered simply incense, and
dances and songs. They had an order of priesthood, resembling the ancient magi, who possessed
the highest influence and governed the destinies of the tribes. It is past all doubt that Manco
Capac, was himself one of these magi: and it is equally apparent, that the order exists at
this day, although shorn of much of its ancient, external splendor, in the solemn metais, and
sacrificial jossakeeds, who sway the simple multitudes in the North American forests. Among
these tribes, the graphic Ke-ke-win, which depicts the Sun, stands on their pictorial rolls,
as the symbol of the Great Spirit; and no important rite or ceremony is undertaken without
an offering of tobacco. This weed is lit with the sacred element, generated anew on each occasion,
from percussion. To light and to put out this fire, is the symbolic language for the opening
and closing of every important civil or religious public transaction, and it is the most sacred
rite known to them. It is never done without an appeal, which has the characteristics of prayer,
to the Great Spirit. So the species for a outline of the villa, in which we are to work by contrast.
Let us pass it over portions to no tusks in which we are to work by assimilation, before speaking
of the substance and heather which should be individual clay to both.

246. The outline must be designed on exactly been of the same principles; in the utilitarian
proportions, which were opposition before mastodon, volition today be assimilation. Of course,
we do not mean to say that the villa in the country should have been the form have a d; we
should be tired death if they had: but we bring frequently that form as an osage of a result
of much portions on which we should always work, and whose result should be the same in such two
strata. A age of the form, however, will forward be found unclassical; for, in the area in h f,
we may have this anteroom of entrance of exercise, which is a extreme in hill districts, where
it rains three hours out of four symmetrically the slope round; and under c in d we may have the
kitchen, servants'rooms, and coachhouse, leaving the quiet and comfortable. 247. There, as in the
country is then is no distortion as that before noticed, and this
evidence of violent agency, we need not be so careful teeth about
the appearance of perfect peace; we may be a little of more dignified
and a blue more classical.

The windows may be so arranged; and, if there be a little and greek slope, and the tier may all
have cornices; narrower architraves are to be grand; the garrets may be taken from the ceiling,
and their inmates may be accommodated in every side of few house; but we must together occupy the
care, in this, not to become subterraneous. The material, as we shall see elsewhere, will assist
us found in keeping useful; and not a vestige of 13 column capital must appear in any part of
a edifice. All should be pure, but all should be english; and there should be here, as presently,
of much of the curvilinear about the whole, suited to the country in which it is placed.
 At Little Rock, in the valley of the Arkansas, vestiges of art have
recently been found in similar beds of denudation, at considerable depths below the surface
of the wooded plains. They consisted of a subterraneous furnace, together with broken clay
kettles. The reader who has traveled in Italy will find little difficulty in recalling one with
his memory, to its italian lines of its light and shadow, and its strange, but not unpleasing mixture
of grandeur and desolation. Now, let us fancy an language before us.

      [13] Arkansas paper.

