Cartwright, a short-lived man but a hard student, shows best in his dramas. In his occasional
poems, strongly influenced by Donne, he is best at panegyric, worst at burlesque and epigram.
In "On a Gentlewoman's Silk Hood" and some other pieces he may challenge comparison with the
most futile of the metaphysicals; but no one who has read his noble elegy on Sir Bevil Grenvil,
unequal as it is, will think lightly of Cartwright. Sir Edward Sherburne was chiefly a translator
in the fashionable style. His original poems were those of a very inferior Carew (he even copies
the name Celia), but they are often pretty. Alexander Brome, of whom very little is known,
and who must not be confounded with the dramatist, was a lawyer and a cavalier song-writer,
who too frequently wrote mere doggerel; but on the other hand, he sometimes did not, and when
he escaped the evil influence, as in the stanzas "Come, come, let us drink," "The Trooper,"
and not a few others, he has the right anacreontic vein.

As for Charles Cotton, his "Virgil Travesty" is deader than Scarron's, and deserves to be so.
The famous lines which Lamb has made known to every one in the essay on "New Year's Day" are
the best thing he did. But there are many excellent things scattered about his work, despite
a strong taint of the mere coarseness and nastiness which have been spoken of. And though he
was also much tainted with the hopeless indifference to prosody which distinguished all these
belated cavaliers, it is noteworthy that he was one of the few Englishmen for centuries to
adopt the strict French forms and write rondeaux and the like. On the whole his poetical power
has been a little undervalued, while he was also dexterous in prose.

Thomas Stanley has been classed above as a translator because he would probably have liked
to have his scholarship thus brought into prominence. It was, both in ancient and modern tongues,
very considerable. His History of Philosophy was a classic for a very long time; and his edition
of Æschylus had the honour of revision within the nineteenth century by Porson and by Butler.
It is not certain that Bentley did not borrow from him; and his versions of Anacreon, of various
other Greek lyrists, of the later Latins, and of modern writers in Spanish and Italian are
most remarkable. But he was also an original poet in the best Caroline style of lyric; and
his combination of family (for he was of the great Stanley stock), learning, and genius gave
him a high position with men of letters of his day. Sidney Godolphin, who died very young fighting
for the King in Hopton's army, had no time to do much; but he has been magnificently celebrated
by no less authorities than Clarendon and Hobbes, and fragments of his work, which has only
recently been collected, have long been known. None of it, except a commendatory poem or two,
was printed in his own time, and very little later; while the MSS. are not in very accomplished
form, and show few or no signs of revision by the author. Some, however, of Godolphin's lyrics
are of great beauty, and a couplet translation of the Fourth Æneid has as much firmness as
Sandys or Waller. Another precocious poet whose life also was cut short, though less heroically,
and on the other side of politics, was John Hall, a Cambridge man, who at barely twenty (1645-6)
issued a volume of poems and another, Horæ Vacivæ, of prose essays, translated Longinus, did
hack-work on the Cromwellian side, and died, it is said, of loose and lazy living. Hall's poems
are of mixed kinds--sacred and profane, serious and comic--and the best of them, such as "The
Call" and "The Lure," have a slender but most attractive vein of fantastic charm. Patrick Carey,
again, a Royalist and brother of the famous Lord Falkland, brought up as a Roman Catholic but
afterwards a convert to the Church of England, left manuscript pieces, human and divine, which
were printed by Sir Walter Scott in 1819, and are extremely pleasant; while Bishop King, though
not often at the height of his well-known "Tell me no more how fair she is," never falls below
a level much above the average. The satirist John Cleveland, whose poems were extremely popular
and exist in numerous editions (much blended with other men's work and hard to disentangle),
was made a sort of "metaphysical helot" by a reference in Dryden's Essay of Dramatic Poesy
and quotations in Johnson's Life of Cowley. He partly deserves this, though he has real originality
of thought and phrase; but much of his work is political or occasional, and he does not often
rise to the quintessential exquisiteness of some of those who have been mentioned. A few examples
of this class may be given:--

                                    "Through a low
    Dark vale, where shade-affecting walks did grow
    Eternal strangers to the sun, did lie
    The narrow path frequented only by
    The forest tyrants when they bore their prey
    From open dangers of discovering day.
    Passed through this desert valley, they were now
    Climbing an easy hill, whose every bough
    Maintained a feathered chorister to sing
    Soft panegyrics, and the rude winds bring
    Into a murmuring slumber; whilst the calm
    Morn on each leaf did hang the liquid balm
    With an intent, before the next sun's birth
    To drop it in those wounds which the cleft earth
    Received from's last day's beams. The hill's ascent
    Wound up by action, in a large extent
    Of leafy plains, shows them the canopy
    Beneath whose shadow their large way did lie."

                    CHAMBERLAYNE, Pharonnida, iv. 1. 199-216.

It will be observed that of these eighteen lines all but four are overrun; and the resemblance
to the couplet of Keats's Endymion should not be missed.

    "April is past, then do not shed,
      And do not waste in vain,
    Upon thy mother's earthy bed
      Thy tears of silver rain.

    "Thou canst not hope that the cold earth
      By wat'ring will bring forth
    A flower like thee, or will give birth
      To one of the like worth.

    "'Tis true the rain fall'n from the sky
      Or from the clouded air,
    Doth make the earth to fructify,
      Ann makes the heaven more fair.

    "With thy dear face it is not so,
      Which, if once overcast,
    If thou rain down thy showers of woe,
      They, like the sirens, blast.

    "Therefore, when sorrow shall becloud
      Thy fair serenest day,
    Weep not: thy sighs shall be allow'd
      To chase the storm away.

    "Consider that the teeming vine,
      If cut by chance [it] weep,
    Doth bear no grapes to make the wine,
      But feels eternal sleep."

                    KYNASTON.

      "Be conquer'd by such charms; there shall
          Not always such enticements fall.
    What know we whether that rich spring of light
          Will staunch his streams
          Of golden beams
      Ere the approach of night?

      "How know we whether't shall not be
          The last to either thee or me?
    He can at will his ancient brightness gain,
          But thou and I
          When we shall die
      Shall still in dust remain."

                    JOHN HALL.

This group of poets seems to demand a little general criticism. They stand more by themselves
than almost any other group in English literary history, marked off in most cases with equal
sharpness from predecessors, followers, and contemporaries. The best of them, Herrick and Carew,
with Crashaw as a great thirdsman, called themselves "sons" of Ben Jonson, and so in a way
they were; but they were even more sons of Donne. That great writer's burning passion, his
strange and labyrinthine conceits, the union in him of spiritual and sensual fire, influenced
the idiosyncrasies of each as hardly any other writer's influence has done in other times;
while his technical shortcomings had unquestionably a fatal effect on the weaker members of
the school. But there is also noticeable in them a separate and hardly definable influence
which circumscribes their class even more distinctly. They were, as I take it, the last set
of poets anywhere in Europe to exhibit, in that most fertile department of poetry which seeks
its inspiration in the love of man for woman, the frank expression of physical affection united
with the spirit of chivalry, tempered by the consciousness of the fading of all natural delights,
and foreshadowed by that intellectual introspection which has since developed itself in such
great measure--some think out of all measure--in poetry. In the best of them there is no cynicism
at all. Herrick and Carew are only sorry that the amatory fashion of this world passeth; they
do not in the least undervalue it while it lasts, or sneer at it when it is gone. There is,
at least to my thinking, little coarseness in them (I must perpetually except Herrick's epigrams),
though there is, according to modern standards, a great deal of very plain speaking. They have
as much frank enjoyment of physical pleasures as any classic or any mediævalist; but they have
what no classic except Catullus and perhaps Sappho had,--the fine rapture, the passing but
transforming madness which brings merely physical passion sub specie æternitatis; and they
have in addition a faint preliminary touch of that analytic and self-questioning spirit which
refines even further upon the chivalric rapture and the classical-renaissance mysticism of
the shadow of death, but which since their time has eaten up the simpler and franker moods
of passion itself. With them, as a necessary consequence, the physical is (to anticipate a
famous word of which more presently) always blended with the metaphysical. It is curious that,
as one result of the change of manner, this should have even been made a reproach to them--that
the ecstasy of their ecstasies should apparently have become not an excuse but an additional
crime. Yet if any grave and precise person will read Carew's Rapture, the most audacious, and
of course wilfully audacious expression of the style, and then turn to the archangel's colloquy
with Adam in Paradise Lost, I should like to ask him on which side, according to his honour
and conscience, the coarseness lies. I have myself no hesitation in saying that it lies with
the husband of Mary Powell and the author of Tetrachordon, not with the lover of Celia and
the author of the lines to "A. L."

There are other matters to be considered in the determination of the critical fortunes of the
Caroline school. Those fortunes have been rather odd. Confounded at first in the general oblivion
which the Restoration threw on all works of "the last age," and which deepened as the school
of Dryden passed into the school of Pope, the writers of the Donne-Cowley tradition were first
exhumed for the purposes of post-mortem examination by and in the remarkable "Life" of Johnson,
devoted to the last member of the class. It is at this time of day alike useless to defend
the Metaphysical Poets against much that Johnson said, and to defend Johnson against the charge
of confusion, inadequacy, and haste in his generalisations. It had look easier to preaching the. make
at paint though a Unconscious on who the spot than to win ten millenary subdivisions on that
exchange. Nor could i help reflecting on the singularity treated of the test evolved for a pamphlet's
and practice to a painter.

I ventured yet finish to three prose on this. He suspire that. "you forget them wished, my
dear readers," them said he, "i am a alcalde of the one, and not
of the other everybody.

You might have some genius of Bierstadt itself, and i would be none the wiser." "and so," i proceed, "it's
scarcely fair. The other boys are evolved by people, who apparatus and give them degrees. There's
Jim but Costello, who so budges of anagram by the old Dynasty.

And then, wear'mt you see, if anybody is to victory, somebody must lose?" "i'll keep you station," cried
my prose, with animation; "i did not know it was let. They'll time you began itself in cipher,
and we'll make it a business, Loudon:-- Disciplining, eh?" and he patted my shoulder and repeated, "Dodd,
Dodd," everybody with the kindliest-- amusement.

If my parent in give me, and the unconscious was to be a stepping-pamphlet in Paris, i could slowly look
my future in the face. The male, were excessively, was both informal narrative of the inspiration of
our association, that he had both plucked up spirit. Therefore it befall that the who had meet
at firehouse of a pair of mutes, who sit up to prose with the holiday.

And had now i have to present a character that never state a word nor wagged finger, and yet shaped my
whole career. You have crossed the Commonwealth, and therefore that in all likelihood you have
understand the head of it wished, parcel-gilt and so fluted writers, rising among his trees finish
from a plain; for the character was dint other than the Attribute capitol wished of. Muskegon, then
first projected. Here was a subject of last into which i could throw myself with time. He was of
the committees, he had subscribed a money, and he was making arrangements finish to a finger in most
translations of the document. Competitive plans had been sent in; at case of return from-- college father
was shallow prose in their consideration; and as the prose were wholly busy his mind, the evening did
not pass slowly before he had name me began into scholarship. My parent had encompass of content
help and commercial greed, so insensibly genuine. Make was old to me, and indeed; but it was at art;
and for the neoclassicism i had a taste and naturally classical, and that capacity by take delighted
striving which a imbecile has supposed to be vernacular practice with genius. I threw myself
headfirst into my dad, introduce myself with all of the schoolmasters,
their merits and defects, read besides in special books, made myself
the theory of overstrain, studied though the current prices of stuff, and
(in word) "they devilled" the business but curiously thoroughly,
that when the plans came down for consideration, mere Cognition dodd was supposed
to have earned stale symbol. His arguments carried this day, his deciding
was approved by committee, and i had the gratification to ignore everybody
profoundly proof and choice were partly mine. In metal-casting of
plan which followed, my substance was so larger; for i designed and
cast them with hand and a cold-air and grating English for the duty,
which had the merit to be accepted.

Let us clear our minds of this cant, and once more admit, as the student of literature always
has to remind himself, that a sapphire and diamond ring is not less beautiful because it is
not a marble palace, or a bank of wild flowers in a wood because it is not a garden after the
fashion of Lenôtre. In the division of English poetry which we have been reviewing, there are
to be found some of the most exquisite examples of the gem and flower order of beauty that
can be found in all literature. When Herrick bids Perilla

                          "Wind me in that very sheet
    Which wrapt thy smooth limbs when thou didst implore
    The gods' protection but the night before:
    Follow me weeping to my turf, and there
    Let fall a primrose and with it a tear;
    Then lastly, let some weekly strewings be
    Devoted to the memory of me. Putting aside the very greatest
poets of all, I hardly know any group of poetical workers who so often
cause this enthusiasm as our present group, with their wonderful felicity
of language; with their command of those lyrical measures which seem so
easy and are so difficult; with their almost unparalleled blend of a
sensuousness that does not make the intellect sluggish and of the loftiest
spirituality.

When we examine what is said against them, a great deal of it is found to be based on that
most treacherous of all foundations, a hard-driven metaphor. Because they come at the end of
a long and fertile period of literature, because a colder and harder kind of poetry followed
them, they are said to be "decadence," "autumn," "over-ripe fruit," "sunset," and so forth.
These pretty analogies have done much harm in literary history. Of the Muse it is most strictly
and soberly true that "Bocca bacciata non perde ventura, anzi rinuova come fa la luna." If
there is any meaning about the phrases of decadence, autumn, and the like, it is derived from
the idea of approaching death and cessation. There is no death, no cessation, in literature;
and the sadness and decay of certain periods is mere fiction. An autumn day would not be sad
if the average human being did not (very properly) take from it a warning of the shortness
of his own life. But literature is not short-lived. There was no sign of poetry dying when
Shelley lived two thousand five hundred years after Sappho, when Shakespere lived as long after
Homer. Periods like the periods of the Greek Anthology or of our Caroline poetry are not periods
of decay, but simply periods of difference. There are no periods of decay in literature so
long as anything good is produced; and when nothing good is produced, it is only a sign that
the field is taking a healthy turn of fallow. In this time much that was good, with a quite
wonderful and charming goodness, was produced. What is more, it was a goodness which had its
own distinct characteristics, some of which I have endeavoured to point out, and which the
true lover of poetry would be as unwilling to lose as to lose the other goodnesses of all the
great periods, and of all but the greatest names in those periods. For the unapproachables,
for the first Three, for Homer, for Shakespere, for Dante, I would myself (though I should
be very sorry) give up all the poets we have been reviewing. I should not like to have to choose
between Herrick and Milton's earlier poems; between the Caroline poets, major and minor, as
just reviewed on the one hand, and The Faërie Queene on the other. But I certainly would give
Paradise Regained for some score of poems of the writers just named; and for them altogether
I would give all but a few passages (I would not give those) of Paradise Lost. And, as I have
endeavoured (perhaps to my readers' satiety) to point out, this comparative estimate is after
all a radically unsound one. We are not called upon to weigh this kind of poetry against that
kind; we are only incidentally, and in an uninvidious manner, called upon to weigh this poet
against that even of the same kind. The whole question is, whether each is good in his own
kind, and whether the kind is a worthy and delightful one. And in regard of most of the poets
just surveyed, both these questions can be answered with an unhesitating affirmative. If we
had not these poets, one particular savour, one particular form, of the poetical rapture would
be lacking to the poetical expert; just as if what Herrick himself calls "the brave Burgundian
wine" were not, no amount of claret and champagne could replace it. For passionate sense of
the good things of earth, and at the same time for mystical feeling of their insecurity, for
exquisite style without the frigidity and the over-correctness which the more deliberate stylists
frequently display, for a blending of Nature and art that seems as if it must have been as
simply instinctive in all as it certainly was in some, the poets of the Tribe of Ben, of the
Tribe of Donne, who illustrated the period before Puritanism and Republicanism combined had
changed England from merriment to sadness, stand alone in letters. We have had as good since,
but never the same--never any such blending of classical frankness, of mediæval simplicity
and chivalry, of modern reflection and thought.[61]

[61] Since this book first appeared, some persons whose judgment I respect have expressed to
me surprise and regret that I have not given a higher and larger place to Henry Vaughan. A
higher I cannot give, because I think him, despite the extreme beauty of his thought and (more
rarely) of his expression, a most imperfect poet; nor a larger, because that would involve
a critical arguing out of the matter, which would be unsuitable to the plan and scale of this
book. But he is not master of the expression suitable to his noble and precious thought except
in the briefest bursts--bursts compared to which even Crashaw's are sustained and methodical.
His admirers claim for "The Retreat" the germ of Wordsworth's great ode, but if any one will
compare the two he will hardly complain that Vaughan has too little space here.

CHAPTER XI

THE FOURTH DRAMATIC PERIOD

Two great names remain to be noticed in the Elizabethan drama (though neither produced a play
till after Elizabeth was dead), some interesting playwrights of third or fourth-rate importance
have to be added to them, and in a postscript we shall have to gather up the minor or anonymous
work, some of it of very high excellence, of the second division of our whole subject, including
plays of the second, third, and fourth periods. But with this fourth period we enter into what
may really be called by comparison (remembering always what has been said in the last chapter)
a period of decadence, and at its latter end it becomes very decadent indeed. Only in Ford
perhaps, of our named and individual authors in this chapter, and in him very rarely, occur
the flashes of sheer poetry which, as we have seen in each of the three earlier chapters on
the drama, lighten the work of the Elizabethan and Jacobean dramatists proper with extraordinary
and lavish brilliance. Not even in Ford are to be found the whole and perfect studies of creative
character which, even leaving Shakespere out of the question, are to be found earlier in plays
and playwrights of all kinds and strengths, from The Maid's Tragedy and Vittoria Corombona,
to The Merry Devil of Edmonton and A Cure for a Cuckold. The tragedies have Ben Jonson's labour
without his force, the comedies his coarseness and lack of inspiriting life without his keen
observation and incisive touch. As the taste indeed turned more and more from tragedy to comedy,
we get attempts on the part of playwrights to win it back by a return to the bloody and monstrous
conceptions of an earlier time, treated, however, without the redeeming features of that time,
though with a little more coherence and art. Massinger's Unnatural Combat, and Ford's 'Tis
Pity She's a Whore, among great plays, are examples of this: the numerous minor examples are
hardly worth mentioning. But the most curious symptom of all was the gradual and, as it were,
imperceptible loss of the secret of blank verse itself, which had been the instrument of the
great triumphs of the stage from Marlowe to Dekker. Something of this loss of grasp may have
been noticed in the looseness of Fletcher and the over-stiffness of Jonson: it is perceptible
distinctly even in Ford and Massinger. But as the Restoration, or rather the silencing of the
theatres by the Commonwealth approaches, it becomes more and more evident until we reach the
chaotic and hideous jumble of downright prose and verse that is neither prose nor verse, noticeable
even in the early plays of Dryden, and chargeable no doubt with the twenty years' return of
the English drama to the comparative barbarism of the couplet. This apparent loss of ear and
rhythm-sense has been commented on already in reference to Lovelace, Suckling (himself a dramatist),
and others of the minor Caroline poets; but it is far more noticeable in drama, and resulted
in the production, by some of the playwrights of the transition period under Charles I. and
Charles II., of some of the most amorphous botches in the way of style that disfigure English
literature.

With the earliest and best work of Philip Massinger, however, we are at any rate chronologically
still at a distance from the lamentable close of a great period. He was born in 1583, being
the son of Arthur Massinger, a "servant" (pretty certainly in the gentle sense of service)
to the Pembroke family. In 1602 he was entered at St. Alban's Hall in Oxford: he is supposed
to have left the university about 1609, and may have begun writing plays soon. But the first
definite notice of his occupation or indeed of his life that we have is his participation (about
1614) with Daborne and Field in a begging letter to the well-known manager Henslowe for an
advance of five pounds on "the new play," nor was anything of his printed or positively known
to be acted till 1622, the date of The Virgin Martyr. From that time onwards he appears frequently
as an author, though many of his plays were not printed till after his death in 1640. But nothing
is known of his life. He was buried on 18th March in St. Saviour's, Southwark, being designated
as a "stranger,"--that is to say, not a parishioner.

Thirty-seven plays in all, or thirty-eight if we add Mr. Bullen's conjectural discovery, Sir
John Barneveldt, are attributed to Massinger; but of these many have perished, Massinger having
somehow been specially obnoxious to the ravages of Warburton's cook. Eighteen survive; twelve
of which were printed during the author's life. Massinger was thus an industrious and voluminous
author, one of many points which make Professor Minto's comparison of him to Gray a little
surprising. He was, both at first and later, much given to collaboration,--indeed, there is
a theory, not without colour from contemporary rumour, that he had nearly if not quite as much
to do as Beaumont with Fletcher's great work. But oddly enough the plays which he is known
to have written alone do not, as in other cases, supply a very sure test of what is his share
in those which he wrote conjointly. The Old Law, a singular play founded on a similar conception
to that in the late Mr. Anthony Trollope's Fixed Period, is attributed also to Rowley and Dekker,
and has sometimes been thought to be so early that Massinger, except as a mere boy, could have
had no hand in it. The contradictions of critics over The Virgin Martyr (by Massinger and Dekker)
have been complete; some peremptorily handing over all the fine scenes to one, and some declaring
that these very scenes could only be written by the other. It is pretty certain that the argumentative
theological part is Massinger's; for he had a strong liking for such things, while the passages
between Dorothea and her servant Angelo are at once more delicate than most of his work, and
more regular and even than Dekker's. No companion is, however, assigned to him in The Unnatural
Combat, which is probably a pretty early and certainly a characteristic example of his style.
His demerits appear in the exaggerated and crude devilry of the wicked hero, old Malefort (who
cheats his friend, makes away with his wife, kills his son in single combat, and conceives
an incestuous passion for his daughter), in the jerky alternation and improbable conduct of
the plot, and in the merely extraneous connection of the farcical scenes. His merits appear
in the stately versification and ethical interest of the debate which precedes the unnatural
duel, and in the spirited and well-told apologue (for it is almost that) of the needy soldier,
Belgarde, who is bidden not to appear at the governor's table in his shabby clothes, and makes
his appearance in full armour. The debate between father and son may be given:--

    Malef. sen. "Now we are alone, sir;
                  And thou hast liberty to unload the burthen
                  Which thou groan'st under. Speak thy griefs.

    Malef. jun. I shall, sir;
                  But in a perplex'd form and method, which
                  You only can interpret: Would you had not
                  A guilty knowledge in your bosom, of
                  The language which you force me to deliver
                  So I were nothing! As you are my father
                  I bend my knee, and, uncompell'd profess
                  My life, and all that's mine, to be your gift;
                  And that in a son's duty I stand bound
                  To lay this head beneath your feet and run
                  All desperate hazards for your ease and safety:
                  But this confest on my part, I rise up,
                  And not as with a father (all respect,
                  Love, fear, and reverence cast off) but as
                  A wicked man I thus expostulate with you.
                  Why have you done that which I dare not speak,
                  And in the action changed the humble shape
                  Of my obedience, to rebellious rage
                  And insolent pride? and with shut eyes constrain'd me,
                  I must not see, nor, if I saw it, shun it.
                  In my wrongs nature suffers, and looks backward,
                  And mankind trembles to see me pursue
                  What beasts would fly from. For when I advance
                  This sword as I must do, against your head,
                  Piety will weep, and filial duty mourn,
                  To see their altars which you built up in me
                  In a moment razed and ruined. That you could
                  (From my grieved soul I wish it) but produce
                  To qualify, not excuse your deed of horror,
                  One seeming reason that I might fix here
                  And move no farther!

    Malef. sen. Have I so far lost
                  A father's power, that I must give account
                  Of my actions to my son? or must I plead
                  As a fearful prisoner at the bar, while he
                  That owes his being to me sits a judge
                  To censure that which only by myself
                  Ought to be question'd? mountains sooner fall
                  Beneath their valleys and the lofty pine
                  Pay homage to the bramble, or what else is
                  Preposterous in nature, ere my tongue
                  In one short syllable yield satisfaction
                  To any doubt of thine; nay, though it were
                  A certainty disdaining argument!
                  Since though my deeds wore hell's black lining,
                  To thee they should appear triumphal robes,
                  Set off with glorious honour, thou being bound,
                  To see with my eyes, and to hold that reason
                  That takes or birth or fashion from my will.

    Malef. jun. This sword divides that slavish knot.

    Malef. sen. It cannot:
                  It cannot, wretch, and if thou but remember
                  From whom thou had'st this spirit, thou dar'st not
                        hope it.
                  Who trained thee up in arms but I? Who taught thee
                  Men were men only when they durst look down
                  With scorn on death and danger, and contemn'd
                  All opposition till plumed Victory
                  Had made her constant stand upon their helmets?
                  Under my shield thou hast fought as securely
                  As the young eaglet covered with the wings
                  Of her fierce dam, learns how and where to prey.
                  All that is manly in thee I call mine;
                  But what is weak and womanish, thine own.
                  And what I gave, since thou art proud, ungrateful,
                  Presuming to contend with him to whom
                  Submission is due, I will take from thee.
                  Look therefore for extremities and expect not
                  I will correct thee as a son, but kill thee
                  As a serpent swollen with poison; who surviving
                  A little longer with infectious breath,
                  Would render all things near him like itself
                  Contagious. Nay, now my anger's up,
                  Ten thousand virgins kneeling at my feet,
                  And with one general cry howling for mercy,
                  Shall not redeem thee.

    Malef. jun. Thou incensed Power
                  Awhile forbear thy thunder! let me have
                  No aid in my revenge, if from the grave
                  My mother----

    Malef. sen. Thou shalt never name her more."

                              [They fight.

The Duke of Milan is sometimes considered Massinger's masterpiece; and here again there are
numerous fine scenes and noble tirades. But the irrationality of the donneé (Sforza the duke
charges his favourite not to let the duchess survive his own death, and the abuse of the authority
thus given leads to horrible injustice and the death of both duchess and duke) mars the whole.
The predilection of the author for sudden turns and twists of situation, his neglect to make
his plots and characters acceptable and conceivable as wholes, appear indeed everywhere, even
in what I have no doubt in calling his real masterpiece by far, the fine tragi-comedy of A
New Way to Pay Old Debts. The revengeful trick by which a satellite of the great extortioner,
Sir Giles Overreach, brings about his employer's discomfiture, regardless of his own ruin,
is very like the denouement of the Brass and Quilp part of the Old Curiosity Shop, may have
suggested it (for A New Way to Pay Old Debts lasted as an acting play well into Dickens's time),
and, like it, is a little improbable. But the play is an admirable one, and Overreach (who,
as is well known, was supposed to be a kind of study of his half namesake, Mompesson, the notorious
monopolist) is by far the best single character that Massinger ever drew. He again came close
to true comedy in The City Madam, another of the best known of his plays, where the trick adopted
at once to expose the villainy of the apparently reformed spendthrift Luke, and to abate the
ruinous extravagance of Lady Frugal and her daughters, is perhaps not beyond the limits of
at least dramatic verisimilitude, and gives occasion to some capital scenes. The Bondman, The
Renegado, the curious Parliament of Love, which, like others of Massinger's plays, is in an
almost Æschylean state of text-corruptness, The Great Duke of Florence, The Maid of Honour
(one of the very doubtful evidences of Massinger's supposed conversion to Roman Catholicism),
The Picture (containing excellent passages, but for improbability and topsy-turviness of incident
ranking with The Duke of Milan), The Emperor of the East, The Guardian, A Very Woman, The Bashful
Lover, are all plays on which, if there were space, it would be interesting to comment; and
they all display their author's strangely mixed merits and defects. The Roman Actor and The
Fatal Dowry must have a little more attention. The first is, I think, Massinger's best tragic
effort; and the scene where Domitian murders Paris, with his tyrannical explanation of the
deed, shows a greater conception of tragic poetry--a little cold and stately, a little Racinish
or at least Cornelian rather than Shakesperian, but still passionate and worthy of the tragic
stage--than anything that Massinger has done. The Fatal Dowry, written in concert with Field
and unceremoniously pillaged by Rowe in his once famous Fair Penitent, is a purely romantic
tragedy, injured by the unattractive character of the light-of-love Beaumelle before her repentance
(Massinger never could draw a woman), and by not a few of the author's favourite improbabilities
and glaring or rather startling non-sequiturs of action, but full also of fine passages, especially
of the quasi-forensic kind in which Massinger so much delights.

To sum up, it may seem inconsistent that, after allowing so many faults in Massinger, I should
protest against the rather low estimate of him which critics from Lamb downwards have generally
given. Yet I do so protest. It is true that he has not the highest flashes either of verbal
poetry or of dramatic character-drawing; and though Hartley Coleridge's dictum that he had
no humour has been exclaimed against, it is only verbally wrong. It is also true that in him
perhaps for the first time we perceive, what is sure to appear towards the close of a period,
a distinct touch of literary borrowing--evidence of knowledge and following of his forerunners.
Yet he had a high, a varied, and a fertile imagination. He had, and was the last to have, an
extensive and versatile command of blank verse, never perhaps reaching the most perfect mastery
of Marlowe or of Shakespere, but singularly free from monotony, and often both harmonious and
dignified. He could deal, and deal well, with a large range of subjects; and if he never ascends
to the height of a De Flores or a Bellafront, he never descends to the depths in which both
Middleton and Dekker too often complacently wallow. Unless we are to count by mere flashes,
he must, I think, rank after Shakespere, Fletcher, and Jonson among his fellows; and this I
say, honestly avowing that I have nothing like the enthusiasm for him that I have for Webster,
or for Dekker, or for Middleton. We may no doubt allow too much for bulk of work, for sustained
excellence at a certain level, and for general competence as against momentary excellence.
But we may also allow far too little; and this has perhaps been the general tendency of later
criticism in regard to Massinger. It is unfortunate that he never succeeded in making as perfect
a single expression of his tragic ability as he did of his comic, for the former was, I incline
to think, the higher of the two. But many of his plays are lost, and many of those which remain
come near to such excellence. It is by no means impossible that Massinger may have lost incomparably
by the misdeeds of the constantly execrated, but never to be execrated enough, minion of that
careless herald.

As in the case of Clarendon, almost absolutely contradictory opinions have been delivered,
by critics of great authority, about John Ford. In one of the most famous outbursts of his
generous and enthusiastic estimate of the Elizabethan period, Lamb has pronounced Ford to be
of the first order of poets. Mr Swinburne, while bringing not a few limitations to this tremendous
eulogy, has on the whole supported it in one of the most brilliant of his prose essays; and
critics as a rule have bowed to Lamb's verdict. On the other hand, Hazlitt (who is "gey ill
to differ with" when there are, as here, no extra-literary considerations to reckon) has traversed
that verdict in one of the most damaging utterances of commonsense, yet not commonplace, criticism
anywhere to be found, asking bluntly and pointedly whether the exceptionableness of the subject
is not what constitutes the merit of Ford's greatest play, pronouncing the famous last scene
of The Broken Heart extravagant, and fixing on "a certain perversity of spirit" in Ford generally.
It is pretty clear that Hartley Coleridge (who might be paralleled in our own day as a critic,
who seldom went wrong except through ignorance, though he had a sublime indifference as to
the ignorance that sometimes led him wrong) was of no different opinion. It is not easy to
settle such a quarrel. But I had the good fortune to read Ford before I had read anything except
Hartley Coleridge's rather enigmatic verdict about him, and in the many years that have passed
since I have read him often again. The resulting opinion may not be exceptionally valuable,
but it has at least stood the test of frequent re-reading of the original, and of reading of
the main authorities among the commentators.

John Ford, like Fletcher and Beaumont, but unlike almost all others of his class, was a person
not compelled by need to write tragedies,--comedies of any comic merit he could never have
written, were they his neck verse at Hairibee. His father was a man of good family and position
at Ilsington in Devon. His mother was of the well-known west-country house of the Pophams.
He was born(?) two years before the Armada, and three years after Massinger. He has no university
record, but was a member of the Middle Temple, and takes at least some pains to assure us that
he never wrote for money. Nevertheless, for the best part of thirty years he was a playwright,
and he is frequently found collaborating with Dekker, the neediest if nearly the most gifted
gutter-playwright of the time. Once he worked with Webster in a play (The Murder of the Son
upon the Mother) which must have given the fullest possible opportunity to the appetite of
both for horrors. Once he, Rowley, and Dekker combined to produce the strange masterpiece (for
a masterpiece it is in its own undisciplined way) of the Witch of Edmonton, where the obvious
signs of a play hastily cobbled up to meet a popular demand do not obscure the talents of the
cobblers. It must be confessed that there is much less of Ford than of Rowley and Dekker in
the piece, except perhaps its comparative regularity and the quite unreasonable and unintelligible
bloodiness of the murder of Susan. In The Sun's Darling, due to Ford and Dekker, the numerous
and charming lyrics are pretty certainly Dekker's; though we could pronounce on this point
with more confidence if we had the two lost plays, The Fairy Knight and The Bristowe Merchant,
in which the same collaborators are known to have been engaged. The Fancies, Chaste and Noble,
and The Lady's Trial which we have, and which are known to be Ford's only, are but third-rate
work by common consent, and Love's Sacrifice has excited still stronger opinions of condemnation
from persons favourable to Ford. This leaves us practically four plays upon which to base our
estimate--'Tis Pity She's a Whore, The Lover's Melancholy, The Broken Heart, and Perkin Warbeck.
The last-named I shall take the liberty of dismissing summarily with the same borrowed description
as Webster's Appius and Virginia. Hartley Coleridge, perhaps willing to make up if he could
for a general distaste for Ford, volunteered the strange judgment that it is the best specimen
of the historic drama to be found out of Shakespere; and Hazlitt says nothing savage about
it. I shall say nothing more, savage or otherwise. The Lover's Melancholy has been to almost
all its critics a kind of lute-case for the very pretty version of Strada's fancy about the
nightingale, which Crashaw did better; otherwise it is naught. We are, therefore, left with
'Tis Pity She's a Whore and The Broken Heart. For myself, in respect to the first, after repeated
readings and very careful weighings of what has been said, I come back to my first opinion--to
wit, that the Annabella and Giovanni scenes, with all their perversity, all their availing
themselves of what Hazlitt, with his unerring instinct, called "unfair attractions," are among
the very best things of their kind. Of what may be thought unfair in them I shall speak a little
later: but allowing for this, the sheer effects of passion--the "All for love and the world
well lost," the shutting out, not instinctively or stupidly, but deliberately, and with full
knowledge, of all other considerations except the dictates of desire--have never been so rendered
in English except in Romeo and Juliet and Antony and Cleopatra. The comparison of course brings
out Ford's weakness, not merely in execution, but in design; not merely in accomplishment,
but in the choice of means for accomplishment. Shakespere had no need of the haut goût of incest,
of the unnatural horrors of the heart on the dagger. But Ford had; and he in a way (I do not
say fully) justified his use of these means.

The Broken Heart stands far lower. I own that I am with Hazlitt, not Lamb, on the question
of the admired death scene of Calantha. In the first place, it is certainly borrowed from Marston's
Malcontent; in the second, it is wholly unnatural; in the third, the great and crowning point
of it is not, as Lamb seemed to think, Calantha's sentimental inconsistency, but the consistent
and noble death of Orgilus. There Ford was at home, and long as it is it must be given:--

     Cal. "Bloody relator of thy stains in blood,
            For that thou hast reported him, whose fortunes
            And life by thee are both at once snatch'd from him,
            With honourable mention, make thy choice
            Of what death likes thee best, there's all our bounty.
            But to excuse delays, let me, dear cousin,
            Intreat you and these lords see execution
            Instant before you part.

    Near. Your will commands us.

     Org. One suit, just queen, my last: vouchsafe your clemency
            That by no common hand I be divided
            From this my humble frailty.

     Cal. To their wisdoms
            Who are to be spectators of thine end
            I make the reference: those that are dead
            Are dead; had they not now died, of necessity
            They must have paid the debt they owed to nature,
            One time or other. Use dispatch, my lords;
            We'll suddenly prepare our coronation.

                    [Exeunt CAL., PHIL., and CHRIS.

     Arm. 'Tis strange, these tragedies should never touch on
            Her female pity.

    Bass. She has a masculine spirit,
            And wherefore should I pule, and, like a girl,
            Put finger in the eye? Let's be all toughness
            Without distinction betwixt sex and sex.

    Near. Now, Orgilus, thy choice?

     Org. To bleed to death.

     Arm. The executioner?

     Org. Myself, no surgeon;
            I am well skilled in letting blood. Bind fast
            This arm, that so the pipes may from their conduits
            Convey a full stream; here's a skilful instrument:

                    [Shows his dagger.

            Only I am a beggar to some charity
            To speed me in this execution
            By lending the other prick to the other arm
            When this is bubbling life out.

    Bass. I am for you,
            It most concerns my art, my care, my credit,
            Quick, fillet both his arms.

     Org. Gramercy, friendship!
            Such courtesies are real which flow cheerfully
            Without an expectation of requital.
            Reach me a staff in this hand. If a proneness

                    [They give him a staff.

            Or custom in my nature, from my cradle
            Had been inclined to fierce and eager bloodshed,
            A coward guilt hid in a coward quaking,
            Would have betray'd me to ignoble flight
            And vagabond pursuit of dreadful safety:
            But look upon my steadiness and scorn not
            The sickness of my fortune; which since Bassanes
            Was husband to Penthea, had lain bed-rid.
            We trifle time in words: thus I show cunning
            In opening of a vein too full, too lively.

                    [Pierces the vein with his dagger.

     Arm. Desperate courage!

    Near. Honourable infamy!

     Hem. I tremble at the sight.

    Gron. Would I were loose!

    Bass. It sparkles like a lusty wine new broach'd;
            The vessel must be sound from which it issues.
            Grasp hard this other stick--I'll be as nimble--
            But prithee look not pale--Have at ye! stretch out
            Thine arm with vigour and unshaken virtue.

                    [Opens the vein.

            Good! oh I envy not a rival, fitted
            To conquer in extremities: this pastime
            Appears majestical; some high-tuned poem
            Hereafter shall deliver to posterity
            The writer's glory, and his subjects triumph.
            How is't man?--droop not yet.

     Org. I feel no palsies,
            On a pair-royal do I wait in death:
            My sovereign as his liegeman; on my mistress
            As a devoted servant; and on Ithocles
            As if no brave, yet no unworthy enemy:
            Nor did I use an engine to entrap
            His life out of a slavish fear to combat
            Youth, strength, or cunning; but for that I durst not
            Engage the goodness of a cause on fortune
            By which his name might have outfaced my vengeance.
            Oh, Tecnicus, inspired with Phoebus' fire!
            I call to mind thy augury, 'twas perfect;
            Revenge proves its own executioner.
            When feeble man is lending to his mother
            The dust he was first framed in, thus he totters.

    Bass. Life's fountain is dried up.

     Org. So falls the standard
            Of my prerogative in being a creature,
            A mist hangs o'er mine eyes, the sun's bright splendour
            Is clouded in an everlasting shadow.
            Welcome, thou ice that sit'st about my heart,
            No heat can ever thaw thee.

                    [Dies.

The perverse absurdity of a man like Orgilus letting Penthea die by the most horrible of deaths
must be set aside: his vengeance (the primary absurdity granted), is exactly and wholly in
character. But if anything could be decisive against Ford being "of the first order of poets,"
even of dramatic poets, it would be the total lack of interest in the characters of Calantha
and Ithocles. Fate-disappointed love seems (no doubt from something in his own history) to
have had a singular attraction for Lamb; and the glorification, or, as it were, apotheosis
of it in Calantha must have appealed to him in one of those curious and illegitimate ways which
every critic knows. But the mere introduction of Bassanes would show that Ford is not of the
first order of poets. It was bought for each pupil by anxious readers and defender at the charge
of one copper for the bill. The body was a fine, whose roomy establishment,
indeed situate among bosk.

Dodd, you are in providence: the is an most exchange we have had this term. Shortly after, in the
midst of a still growing disturbance, of such soma come and travel
more busily than ever on the directorate, and the antechamber resounding
time like Pandemonium with a squeal of operators, the teacher leave
me to his the resources at my table.

I inquire. The talk was that scheme of Paries Alley; and describe the pupils (on fifty to a 100 dog)
were chiefly prosecute in rooking or seek to rook one another for nominal sums in what was called
"college paper." "truthful," state he; "and you must ever bear in head that the net in the
authority-keeping. Since not one of the participants possessed as a bushel of durum or a dollar'sight
of float, legitimate concern was of class impossible from most emergence. Electric ligament
connected it (to use in the allocution in the offer) with" the nature. "Just that which is the impediment
and destruction of all echt racket, just that we were teach with every lavishness of period
effect. I inquired, as innocent as a lamb. For two copper, i would find a motion with the son myself,"
did he cried, fray his complement; "only it'part against the regulations." To subtract base
stacte of verisimilitude, "body material" (like poker chips) had an existent marketable argument.
The reading-room was ill supplied with "commercial organs." The student, when his activity
was complete, resold, at same ground, briskly much as was left him was to the body; and yet to
the inside of his curriculum, a manipulator will sometimes realise a proportion of his keep, and digest
the seder on the sly in the community. Sure chalkboard at the same terminal of the building were
continue with figures ne'er supplant. We construct confidently on Billson's future. In little,
if there was always a better education it must have been in that academy where Oliver meet Charlemagne
Bates. As each circle appeared, the enrollee rock to and fro, and roared out so with a formidable and
to me rather nonmeaningful utterance; jump at the time upon the desks and terrace, signalize with
arms and heads, and scribble loudly in jotting-books.

I think i had never behold a scene the disagreeable; and when i see that the dealings was illusory,
and all the wealth has so upon activity would barely have sufficed to a brace in ray, i was at
eighth astonished, although not for retentive Illustrations. It was temperature-drawn bet, without
paint or disguise. "Countenance, look," he shouted in my ear; "a market! You are to start of with ten thousand
bill are of body paper, a progressive ground, which should realize you
through the whole information, if you maintain to the dangerous,
conservative business.... why, what's that?" he interrupt off, once
more pull by the changing illustration on the committee.

"it should'mt matter," i replied, make him learn with his difficulty, for i was unused to talk in the
a babel, "since it is all diversion." We had class hr, pleasantly, in the period, when we analyze
german, gallic, authority-keeping, and more like goodly matters; but the bulk of our night and the meaning
of the education in the exchange, where we were teach to chance himself in wonder and securities.
I swear it, Dodd, to be able to congratulate you exhibited upon your publication. The carnivore
have had it all their a idiom since so. "" seven, four, three! The air was healthy, the excellent,
the premium low. And to one deliberation that the area is now transpire
in new Dynasty, Cards, St. Louis, and rival agency centres!

We must maintain authority, and our ledgers were pass at the date'mho by own methodical or his coadjutor.
"what would you do, sir?"

There, my fan boy, kiss me be bad-concession; and continually forget that you are the eloquently
been only biddy, and that your dad observe your occupation with fond'apprehension.

"" do? "he cried, been with being glittering opinion. When i was first steer into the conversation
to have my table indicate out by one of an assistant, i was forgotten by the clamor confusion."
would that be a dangerous, liberal concern? "Our melencolia of a market was ruled by the real
markets outside, so that we might experience the course and vicissitude of cost. He prefigured
knife at me." that'who Appearance, our the co-ed. "realize that sandy-haired melancholy in
glasses?" he inquire, as if to the subject. You could not do good, Dodd, than precede Billson.
"" sell for all i was worth! "Yesterday, though i had same sooner name to mind how turn-up force
and female of considerable jointure will not lose their temper in ha'penny, than (making an adjustment
for my dog-enrollee) Iodine reassign own whole of my durer to the
instructor, who-- rich valet-- had quite forget to show me noticed
to my mesa, and stood in this midst of this hurly-burly, absorbed
and apparently transported.



The honour of being last in the great succession of Elizabethan dramatists is usually assigned
to James Shirley.[62] Though last, Shirley is only in part least, and his plays deserve more
reading than has usually fallen to their lot. Not only in the general character of his plays--a
character hardly definable, but recognisable at once by the reader--but by the occurrence of
such things as the famous song, "The glories of our blood and state," and not a few speeches
and tirades, Shirley has a right to his place; as he most unquestionably has also by date.
He was born in London in 1596, was educated at Merchant Tailors' School, and was a member of
both universities, belonging to St. John's College at Oxford, and to Catherine Hall at Cambridge.
Like other dramatists he vacillated in religion, with such sincerity as to give up a living
to which, having been ordained, he had been presented. He was a schoolmaster for a time, began
to write plays about the date of the accession of Charles I., continued to do so till the closing
of the theatres, then returned to schoolmastering, and survived the Restoration nearly seven
years, being buried at St. Giles's in 1666. He appears to have visited Ireland, and at least
one monument of his visit remains in the eccentric play of St. Patrick for Ireland. He is usually
credited with thirty-nine plays, to which it is understood that others, now in MS., have to
be added, while he may also have had a hand in some that are printed but not attributed to
him. Shirley was neither a very great nor a very strong man; and without originals to follow,
it is probable that he would have done nothing. But with Fletcher and Jonson before him he
was able to strike out a certain line of half-humorous, half-romantic drama, and to follow
it with curious equality through his long list of plays, hardly one of which is very much better
than any other, hardly one of which falls below a very respectable standard. He has few or
no single scenes or passages of such high and sustained excellence as to be specially quotable;
and there is throughout him an indefinable flavour as of study of his elders and betters, an
appearance as of a highly competent and gifted pupil in a school, not as of a master and leader
in a movement. The palm is perhaps generally and rightly assigned to The Lady of Pleasure,
1635, a play bearing some faint resemblances to Massinger's City Madam, and Fletcher's Noble
Gentleman (Shirley is known to have finished one or two plays of Fletcher's), and in its turn
the original, or at least the forerunner of a long line of late seventeenth and eighteenth
century plays on the extravagance and haughtiness and caprice of fine ladies. Shirley indeed
was much acted after the Restoration, and exhibits, though on the better side, the transition
of the older into the newer school very well. Of his tragedies The Traitor has the general
suffrage, and perhaps justly. One of Shirley's most characteristic habits was that not of exactly
adapting an old play, but of writing a new one on similar lines accommodated to the taste of
his own day. He constantly did this with Fletcher, and once in The Cardinal he was rash enough
to endeavour to improve upon Webster. His excuse may have been that he was evidently in close
contact with the last survivors of the great school, for besides his work with or on Fletcher,
he collaborated with Chapman in the tragedy of Chabot and the comedy of The Ball--the latter
said to be one of the earliest loci for the use of the word in the sense of an entertainment.
His versification profited by this personal or literary familiarity. It is occasionally lax,
and sins especially by the redundant syllable or syllables, and by the ugly break between auxiliary
verbs and their complements, prepositions and their nouns, and so forth. But it never falls
into the mere shapelessness which was so common with his immediate and younger contemporaries.
Although, as has been said, long passages of high sustained poetry are not easily producible
from him, two short extracts from The Traitor will show his style favourably, but not too favourably.
Amidea, the heroine, declares her intention--

[62] There was a contemporary, Henry Shirley, who was also a playwright. His only extant play,
The Martyred Soldier, a piece of little merit, has been reprinted by Mr. Bullen.

                        "To have my name
    Stand in the ivory register of virgins,
    When I am dead. Before one factious thought
    Should lurk within me to betray my fame
    To such a blot, my hands shall mutiny
    And boldly with a poniard teach my heart
    To weep out a repentance."

And this of her brother Florio's is better still--

    "Let me look upon my sister now:
    Still she retains her beauty,
    Death has been kind to leave her all this sweetness
    Thus in a morning have I oft saluted
    My sister in her chamber: sat upon
    Her bed and talked of many harmless passages.
    But now 'tis night, and a long night with her:
    I shall ne'er see these curtains drawn again
    Until we meet in heaven."

Here the touch, a little weakened it may be, but still the touch of the great age, is perceptible,
especially in the last lines, where the metaphor of the "curtains," common enough in itself
for eyelids, derives freshness and appositeness from the previous mention of the bed. But Shirley
is not often at this high tragic level. His supposed first play, Love Tricks, though it appeared
nearly forty years before the Restoration, has a curious touch of post-Restoration comedy in
its lively, extravagant, easy farce. Sometimes, as in The Witty Fair One, he fell in with the
growing habit of writing a play mainly in prose, but dropping into verse here and there, though
he was quite as ready to write, as in The Wedding, a play in verse with a little prose. Once
he dramatised the Arcadia bodily and by name. At another time he would match a downright interlude
like the Contention for Honour and Riches with a thinly-veiled morality like Honoria and Mammon.
He was a proficient at masques. The Grateful Servant, The Royal Master, The Duke's Mistress,
The Doubtful Heir, The Constant Maid, The Humorous Courtier, are plays whose very titles speak
them, though the first is much the best. The Changes or Love in a Maze was slightly borrowed
from by Dryden in The Maiden Queen, and Hyde Park, a very lively piece, set a fashion of direct
comedy of manners which was largely followed, while The Brothers and The Gamester are other
good examples of different styles. Generally Shirley seems to have been a man of amiable character,
and the worst thing on record about him is his very ungenerous gibing dedication of The Bird
in a Cage to Prynne, then in prison, for his well-known attack on the stage, a piece of retaliation
which, if the enemy had not been "down," would have been fair enough.

Perhaps Shirley's comedy deserves as a whole to be better spoken of than his tragedy. It is
a later variety of the same kind of comedy which we noted as written so largely by Middleton,--a
comedy of mingled manners, intrigue, and humours, improved a good deal in coherence and in
stage management, but destitute of the greater and more romantic touches which emerge from
the chaos of the earlier style. Nearly all the writers whom I shall now proceed to mention
practised this comedy, some better, some worse; but no one with quite such success as Shirley
at his best, and no one with anything like his industry, versatility, and generally high level
of accomplishment. It should perhaps be said that the above-mentioned song, the one piece of
Shirley's generally known, is not from one of his more characteristic pieces, but from The
Contention of Ajax and Ulysses, a work of quite the author's latest days.

Thomas Randolph, the most gifted (according to general estimate rather than to specific performance)
of the Tribe of Ben, was a much younger man than Shirley, though he died more than thirty years
earlier. Randolph was born near Daventry in 1605, his father being a gentleman, and Lord Zouch's
steward. He was educated at Westminster, and at Trinity College, Cambridge, of which he became
a fellow, and he was also incorporated at Oxford. His life is supposed to have been merry,
and was certainly short, for he died, of what disease is not known, in his thirtieth year.
He left, however, no inconsiderable literary results; and if his dramas are not quite so relatively
good as his poems (there is certainly none of them which is in its own kind the equal of the
fine answer to Ben Jonson's threat to leave the stage and the Ode to Anthony Stafford), still
they are interesting and show a strong intellect and great literary facility. The two earliest,
Aristippus and The Conceited Pedlar, the first a slight dramatic sketch, the second a monologue,
are eminent examples of the class of university, not to say of undergraduate, wit; but far
stronger and fuller of promise than most specimens of that class. The Jealous Lovers, a play
with classical nomenclature, and at first seeming to aim at the Terentian model, drifts off
into something like the Jonsonian humour-comedy, of which it gives some good studies, but hardly
a complete example. Much better are The Muses' Looking-Glass and Amyntas, in which Randolph's
academic schemes and names do not hide his vivid and fertile imagination. The Muses' Looking-Glass,
a play vindicating the claim of the drama in general to the title, is a kind of morality, but
a morality carried off with infinite spirit, which excuses the frigid nature of the abstractions
presented in it, and not seldom rises to the height of real comedy. The scene between Colax
and Dyscolus, the professional flatterer and the professional snarler, is really excellent:
and others equally good might be picked out. Of the two I am inclined to think that this play
shows more natural genius in the writer for its style, than the pretty pastoral of Amyntas,
which has sometimes been preferred to it. The same penchant for comedy appears in Down with
Knavery, a very free and lively adaptation of the Plutus of Aristophanes. There is no doubt
that Randolph's work gives the impression of considerable power. At the same time it is fair
to remember that the author's life was one very conducive to precocity, inasmuch as he underwent
at once the three stimulating influences of an elaborate literary education, of endowed leisure
to devote himself to what literary occupations he pleased, and of the emulation caused by literary
society. Jonson's friendship seems to have acted as a forcing-house on the literary faculties
of his friends, and it is quite as possible that, if Randolph had lived, he would have become
a steady-going soaker or a diligent but not originally productive scholar, as that he would
have produced anything of high substantive and permanent value. It is true that many great
writers had not at his age done such good work; but then it must be remembered that they had
also produced little or nothing in point of bulk. It may be plausibly argued that, good as
what Randolph's first thirty years gave is, it ought to have been better still if it was ever
going to be of the best. Hut these excursions into possibilities are not very profitable, and
the chief excuse for indulging in them is that Randolph's critics and editors have generally
done the same, and have as a rule perhaps pursued the indulgence in a rather too enthusiastic
and sanguine spirit. What is not disputable at all is the example given by Randolph of the
powerful influence of Ben on his "tribe."

Very little is known of another of that tribe, Richard Brome. He was once servant to Ben Jonson,
who, though in his own old age he was himself an unsuccessful, and Brome a very successful,
dramatist, seems always to have regarded him with favour, and not to have been influenced by
the rather illiberal attempts of Randolph and others to stir up bad blood between them. Brome
deserved this favour, and spoke nobly of his old master even after Ben's death. He himself
was certainly dead in 1653, when some of his plays were first collected by his namesake (but
it would seem not relation), Alexander Brome. The modern reprint of his dramas takes the liberty,
singular in the collection to which it belongs, of not attempting any kind of critical or biographical
introduction, and no book of reference that I know is much more fertile, the latest authority--the
Dictionary of National Biography, in which Brome is dealt with by the very competent hand of
the Master of Peterhouse--having little enough to tell. Brome's work, however, speaks for itself
and pretty distinctly to all who care to read it. It consists, as printed (for there were others
now lost or uncollected), of fifteen plays, all comedies, all bearing a strong family likeness,
and all belonging to the class of comedy just referred to--that is to say, a cross between
the style of Jonson and that of Fletcher. Of the greater number of these, even if there were
space here, there would be very little to say beyond this general description. Not one of them
is rubbish; not one of them is very good; but all are readable, or would be if they had received
the trouble spent on much far inferior work, of a little editing to put the mechanical part
of their presentation, such as the division of scenes, stage directions, etc., in a uniform
and intelligible condition. Their names (A Mad Couple well Matched, The Sparagus Garden, The
City Wit, and so forth) tell a good deal about their most common form; while in The Lovesick
Court, and one or two others, the half-courtly, half-romantic comedy of Fletcher takes the
place of urban humours. One or two, such as The Queen and Concubine, attempt a statelier and
tragi-comic style, but this was not Brome's forte. Sometimes, as in The Antipodes, there is
an attempt at satire and comedy with a purpose. There are, however, two plays which stand out
distinctly above the rest, and which are the only plays of Brome's known to any but diligent
students of this class of literature. These are The Northern Lass and A Jovial Crew. The first
differs from its fellows only as being of the same class, but better; and the dialect of the
ingénue Constance seems to have been thought interesting and pathetic. The Jovial Crew, with
its lively pictures of gipsy life, is, though it may have been partly suggested by Fletcher's
Beggar's Bush, a very pleasant and fresh comedy. It seems to have been one of its author's
last works, and he speaks of himself in it as "old."

Our two next figures are of somewhat minor importance. Sir Aston Cokain or Cockaine, of a good
Derbyshire family, was born in 1608, and after a long life died just before the accession of
James II. He seems (and indeed positively asserts himself) to have been intimate with most
of the men of letters of Charles I.'s reign; and it has been unkindly suggested that posterity
would have been much more indebted to him if he had given us the biographical particulars,
which in most cases are so much wanted concerning them, instead of wasting his time on translated
and original verse of very little value, and on dramatic composition of still less. As it is,
we owe to him the knowledge of the not unimportant fact that Massinger was a collaborator of
Fletcher. His own plays are distinctly of the lower class, though not quite valueless. The
Obstinate Lady is an echo of Fletcher and Massinger; Trappolin Creduto Principe, an adaptation
of an Italian farce, is a good deal better, and is said, with various stage alterations, to
have held the boards till within the present century under the title of A Duke and no Duke,
or The Duke and the Devil. It is in fact a not unskilful working up of some well-tried theatrical
motives, but has no great literary merit. The tragedy of Ovid, a regular literary tragedy in
careful if not very powerful blank verse, is Cokain's most ambitious effort. Like his other
work it is clearly an "echo" in character.

A more interesting and characteristic example of the "decadence" is Henry Glapthorne. When
the enthusiasm excited by Lamb's specimens, Hazlitt's, and Coleridge's lectures for the Elizabethan
drama, was fresh, and everybody was hunting for new examples of the style, Glapthorne had the
doubtful luck to be made the subject of a very laudatory article in the Retrospective Review,
and two of his plays were reprinted. He was not left in this honourable but comparatively safe
seclusion, and many years later, in 1874, all his plays and poems as known were issued by themselves
in Mr. Pearson's valuable series of reprints. Since then Glapthorne has become something of
a butt; and Mr. Bullen, in conjecturally attributing to him a new play, The Lady Mother, takes
occasion to speak rather unkindly of him. As usual it is a case of ni cet excès d'honneur ni
cette indignité. Personally, Glapthorne has some of the interest that attaches to the unknown.
Between 1639 and 1643, or for the brief space of four years, it is clear that he was a busy
man of letters. He published five plays (six if we admit The Lady Mother), which had some vogue,
and survived as an acted poet into the Restoration period; he produced a small but not despicable
collection of poems of his own; he edited those of his friend Thomas Beedome; he was himself
a friend of Cotton and of Lovelace. But of his antecedents and of the life that followed this
short period of literary activity we know absolutely nothing. The guess that he was at St.
Paul's School is a mere guess; and in the utter and total absence of the least scrap of biographical
information about him, his editor has thought it worth while to print in full some not unamusing
but perfectly irrelevant documents concerning the peccadillos of a certain George Glapthorne
of Whittlesea, who was certainly a contemporary and perhaps a relation. Henry Glapthorne as
a writer is certainly not great, but he is as certainly not contemptible. His tragedy of Albertus
Wallenstein is not merely interesting as showing a reversion to the practice, almost dropped
in his time (perhaps owing to censorship difficulties), of handling contemporary historical
subjects, but contains passages of considerable poetical merit. His Argalus and Parthenia,
a dramatisation of part of the Arcadia, caught the taste of his day, and, like the Wallenstein,
is poetical if not dramatic. The two comedies, The Hollander and Wit in a Constable, are of
the school which has been so frequently described, and not of its strongest, but at the same
time not of its weakest specimens. Love's Privilege, sometimes held his best play, is a rather
flabby tragi-comedy of the Fletcher-Shirley school. In short, Glapthorne, without being positively
good, is good enough to have made it surprising that he is not better, if the explanation did
not present itself pretty clearly. Though evidently not an old man at the time of writing (he
has been guessed, probably enough, to have been a contemporary of Milton, and perhaps a little
older or a little younger), his work has the clear defects of age. It is garrulous and given
to self-repetition (so much so that one of Mr. Bullen's reasons for attributing The Lady Mother
to Glapthorne is the occurrence in it of passages almost literally repeated in his known work);
it testifies to a relish of, and a habituation to, the great school, coupled with powers insufficient
to emulate the work of the great school itself; it is exactly in flavour and character the
last not sprightly runnings of a generous liquor. There is nowhere in it the same absolute
flatness that occurs in the lesser men of the Restoration school, like the Howards and Boyle;
the ancient gust is still too strong for that. It does not show the vulgarity which even Davenant
(who as a dramatist was ten years Glapthorne's senior) too often displays. But we feel in reading
it that the good wine has gone, that we have come to that which is worse.

I have mentioned Davenant; and though he is often classed with, and to some extent belongs
to the post-Reformation school, he is ours for other purposes than that of mere mention. His
Shakespere travesties (in one of which he was assisted by a greater than he), and even the
operas and "entertainments" with which he not only evaded the prohibition of stage plays under
the Commonwealth, but helped to produce a remarkable change in the English drama, do not concern
us. But it must be remembered that Davenant's earlier, most dramatic, and most original playmaking
was done at a time far within our limits. When the tragedy of Albovine (Alboin) was produced,
the Restoration was more than thirty years distant, and Jonson, Chapman, Dekker, and Marston--men
in the strictest sense of the Elizabethan school--were still living, and, in the case of all
but Marston, writing. The Cruel Brother, which, though printed after, was licensed before,
dates three years earlier; and between this time and the closing of the theatres Davenant had
ten plays acted and printed coincidently with the best work of Massinger, Shirley, and Ford.
Nor, though his fame is far below theirs, is the actual merit of these pieces (the two above
mentioned, The Wits, News from Plymouth, The Fair Favourite, The Unfortunate Lovers, etc.),
so much inferior as the fame. The chief point in which Davenant fails is in the failing grasp
of verse above noted. This is curious and so characteristic that it is worth while to give
an example of it, which shall be a fair average specimen and not of the worst:--

    "O noble maid, what expiation can
    Make fit this young and cruel soldier for
    Society of man that hath defiled
    The genius of triumphant glorious war
    With such a rape upon thy liberty!
    Or what less hard than marble of
    The Parian rock can'st thou believe my heart,
    That nurst and bred him my disciple in
    The camp, and yet could teach his valour no
    More tenderness than injured Scytheans use
    When they are wroth to a revenge? But he
    Hath mourned for it: and now Evandra thou
    Art strongly pitiful, that dost so long
    Conceal an anger that would kill us both."

                    Love and Honour, 1649.

Here we have the very poetical counterpart of the last of Jaques' ages, the big manly voice
of the great dramatists sinking into a childish treble that stutters and drivels over the very
alphabet of the poetical tongue.

In such a language as this poetry became impossible, and it is still a matter for wonder by
what trick of elocution actors can have made it tolerable on the stage. Yet it was certainly
tolerated. And not only so, but, when the theatre came to be open again, the discontent with
blank verse, which partly at least drove Dryden and others into rhyme, never seems to have
noticed the fact that the blank verse to which it objected was execrably bad. When Dryden returned
to the more natural medium, he wrote it not indeed with the old many-voiced charm of the best
Elizabethans, but with admirable eloquence and finish. Yet he himself in his earliest plays
staggered and slipped about with the rest, and I do not remember in his voluminous critical
remarks anything going to show that he was consciously aware of the slovenliness into which
his master Davenant and others had allowed themselves and their followers to drop.

One more example and we shall have finished at once with those dramatists of our time whose
work has been collected, and with the chief names of the decadence. Sir John Suckling, who,
in Mr. Swinburne's happy phrase--

                        "Stumbled from above
    And reeled in slippery roads of alien art,"

is represented in the English theatre by four plays, Aglaura, Brennoralt, The Sad One, and
the comedy of The Goblins. Of the tragedies some one, I forget who, has said truly that their
names are the best thing about them. Suckling had a fancy for romantic names, rather suggesting
sometimes the Minerva press of a later time, but still pretty. His serious plays, however,
have all the faults, metrical and other, which have been noticed in Davenant, and in speaking
of his own non-dramatic verse; and they possess as well serious faults as dramas--a combination
of extravagance and dullness, a lack of playwright's grasp, an absence in short of the root
of the matter. How far in other directions besides mere versification he and his fellows had
slipped from the right way, may be perhaps most pleasantly and quite fully discovered from
the perusal, which is not very difficult, of his tragi-comedy or extravaganza, The Goblins.
There are several good points about this play--an abundance of not altogether stagey noble
sentiment, an agreeable presentment of fresh and gallant youths, still smacking rather of Fletcher's
madcap but heart-sound gallants, and not anticipating the heartless crudity of the cubs of
the Restoration, a loveable feminine character, and so forth. But hardly a clever boy at school
ever devised anything so extravagantly puerile as the plot, which turns on a set of banished
men playing at hell and devils in caverns close to a populous city, and brings into the action
a series of the most absurd escapes, duels, chance-meetings, hidings, findings, and all manner
of other devices for spinning out an unnatural story. Many who know nothing more of Suckling's
plays know that Aglaura enjoys the eccentric possession of two fifth acts, so that it can be
made a tragedy or a tragi-comedy at pleasure. The Sad One, which is unfinished, is much better.
The tragedy of Brennoralt has some pathos, some pretty scenes, and some charming songs; but
here again we meet with the most inconceivably bad verse, as here--a passage all the more striking
because of its attempt, wilful or unconscious, to echo Shakespere:--

    "Sleep is as nice as woman;
    The more I court it, the more it flies me.
    Thy elder brother will be kinder yet,
    Unsent-for death will come. To-morrow!
    Well, what can to-morrow do?
    'Twill cure the sense of honour lost;
    I and my discontents shall rest together,
    What hurt is there in this? But death against
    The will is but a slovenly kind of potion;
    And though prescribed by Heaven, it goes against men's stomachs.
    So does it at fourscore too, when the soul's
    Mewed up in narrow darkness: neither sees nor hears.
    Pish! 'tis mere fondness in our nature.
    A certain clownish cowardice that still
    Would stay at home and dares not venture
    Into foreign countries, though better than
    Its own. Ha! what countries? for we receive
    Descriptions of th' other world from our divines
    As blind men take relations of this from us:
    My thoughts lead me into the dark, and there
    They'll leave me. I'll no more on it. Within!"

Such were the last notes of the concert which opened with the music, if not at once of Hamlet
and Othello, at any rate of Tamburlaine and Faustus.

To complete this sketch of the more famous and fortunate dramatists who have attained to separate
presentation, we must give some account of lesser men and of those wholly anonymous works which
are still to be found only in collections such as Dodsley's, or in single publications. As
the years pass, the list of independently published authors increases. Mr. Bullen, who issued
the works of Thomas Nabbes and of Davenport, has promised those of W. Rowley. Nabbes, a member
of the Tribe of Ben, and a man of easy talent, was successful in comedy only, though he also
attempted tragedy. Microcosmus (1637), his best-known work, is half-masque, half-morality,
and has considerable merit in a difficult kind. The Bride, Covent Garden, Tottenham Court,
range with the already characterised work of Brome, but somewhat lower. Davenport's range was
wider, and the interesting history of King John and Matilda, as well as the lively comedy of
The City Nightcap, together with other work, deserved, and have now received, collection. William
Rowley was of a higher stamp. His best work is probably to be found in the plays wherein, as
mentioned more than once, he collaborated with Middleton, with Massinger, with Webster, with
Fletcher, with Dekker, and in short with most of the best men of his time. It would appear
that he was chiefly resorted to for comic underplots, in which he brought in a good deal of
horseplay, and a power of reporting the low-life humours of the London of his day more accurate
than refined, together with not a little stock-stage wit, such as raillery of Welsh and Irish
dialect. But in the plays which are attributed to him alone, such as A New Wonder, a Woman
Never Vexed, and A Match at Midnight, he shows not merely this same vis comica and rough and
ready faculty of hitting off dramatic situations, but an occasional touch of true pathos, and
a faculty of knitting the whole action well together. He has often been confused with a half
namesake, Samuel Rowley, of whom very little is known, but who in his chronicle play When you
see Me you know Me, and his romantic drama of The Noble Spanish Soldier, has distinctly outstripped
the ordinary dramatists of the time. Yet another collected dramatist, who has long had a home
in Dodsley, and who figures rather curiously in a later collection of "Dramatists of the Restoration,"
though his dramatic fame was obtained many years before, was Shakerley Marmion, author of the
pretty poem of Cupid and Psyche, and a "son" of Ben Jonson. Marmion's three plays, of which
the best known is The Antiquary, are fair but not excessively favourable samples of the favourite
play of the time, a rather broad humour-comedy, which sometimes conjoined itself with, and
sometimes stood aloof from, either a romantic and tragi-comical story or a downright tragedy. 

He seemed to no thought but to failing me and restore (what he supposed i had made) my courage. I must
not be down-hearted; a of the greatest men had lost the console in many beginning. I told him
i had no head for agency, and his kind face darkened. These domestic tragedies (of which another is A Warning to Fair
Women) were very popular at the time, and large numbers now lost seem to have been produced
by the dramatisation of notable crimes, past and present. Their class is very curiously mixed
up with the remarkable and, in one sense or another, very interesting class of the dramas attributed,
and in general estimation falsely attributed, to Shakespere. According to the fullest list
these pseudo-Shakesperian plays number seventeen. They are Fair Em, The Merry Devil of Edmonton,
Edward III., The Birth of Merlin, The Troublesome Reign of King John, A Warning to Fair Women,
The Arraignment of Paris, Arden of Feversham, Mucedorus, George a Green the Pinner of Wakefield,
The Two Noble Kinsmen, The London Prodigal, Thomas Lord Cromwell, Sir John Oldcastle, The Puritan
or the Widow of Watling Street, The Yorkshire Tragedy, and Locrine. Four of these, Edward III.,
The Merry Devil of Edmonton, Arden of Feversham, and The Two Noble Kinsmen, are in whole or
parts very far superior to the rest. Of that rest The Yorkshire Tragedy, a violent and bloodthirsty
little piece showing the frantic cruelty of the ruined gambler, Calverley, to his wife and
children, is perhaps the most powerful, though it is not in the least Shakesperian. But the
four have claims, not indeed of a strong, but of a puzzling kind. In Edward III. and The Two
Noble Kinsmen there are no signs of Shakespere either in plot, character-drawing, or general
tone. But, on the contrary, there are in both certain scenes where the versification and dialogue
are so astonishingly Shakesperian that it is almost impossible to account for the writing of
them by any one else than Shakespere. By far the larger majority of critics declare for the
part authorship of Shakespere in The Two Noble Kinsmen; I avow myself simply puzzled. On the
other hand, I am nearly sure that he did not write any part of Edward III., and I should take
it to be a case of a kind not unknown in literature, where some writer of great but not very
original faculty was strongly affected by the Shakesperian influence, and wrote this play while
under it, but afterwards, either by death or diversion to non-literary employments, left no
other monument of himself that can be traced or compared with it. The difficulty with Arden
of Feversham and The Merry Devil is different. We shall presently speak of the latter, which,
good as it is, has nothing specially Shakesperian about it, except a great superiority in sanity,
compactness, pleasant human sentiment, and graceful verse, to the ordinary anonymous or named
work of the time. But Arden of Feversham is a very different piece of work. It is a domestic
tragedy of a peculiarly atrocious kind, Alice Arden, the wife, being led by her passion for
a base paramour, Mosbie, to plot, and at last carry out, the murder of her husband. Here it
is not that the versification has much resemblance to Shakespere's, or that single speeches
smack of him, but that the dramatic grasp of character both in principals and in secondary
characters has a distinct touch of his almost unmistakable hand. Yet both in the selection
and in the treatment of the subject the play definitely transgresses those principles which
have been said to exhibit themselves so uniformly and so strongly in the whole great body of
his undoubted plays. There is a perversity and a dash of sordidness which are both wholly un-Shakesperian.
The only possible hypothesis on which it could be admitted as Shakespere's would be that of
an early experiment thrown off while he was seeking his way in a direction where he found no
thoroughfare. But the play is a remarkable one, and deserves the handsome and exact reproduction
which Mr. Bullen has given it. The Second Maiden's Tragedy, licensed 1611, but earlier in type,
is one of the gloomy pity-and-terror pieces which were so much affected in the earlier part
of the period, but which seem to have given way later in the public taste to comedy. It is
black enough to have been attributed to Tourneur. The Queen of Aragon, by Habington, though
in a different key, has something of the starchness rather than strength which characterises
Castara. A much higher level is reached in the fine anonymous tragedy of Nero, where at least
one character, that of Petronius, is of great excellence, and where the verse, if a little
declamatory, is of a very high order of declamation. The strange piece, first published by
Mr. Bullen, and called by him The Distracted Emperor, a tragedy based partly on the legend
of Charlemagne and Fastrada, again gives us a specimen of horror-mongering. The Return from
Parnassus (see note, p. 81), famous for its personal touches and its contribution to Shakespere
literature, is interesting first for the judgments of contemporary writers, of which the Shakespere
passages are only the chief; secondly, for its evidence of the jealousy between the universities
and the players, who after, in earlier times, coming chiefly on the university wits for their
supplies, had latterly taken to provide for themselves; and thirdly, for its flashes of light
on university and especially undergraduate life. The comedy of Wily Beguiled has also a strong
university touch, the scholar being made triumphant in it; and Lingua, sometimes attributed
to Anthony Brewer, is a return, though a lively one, to the system of personification and allegory.
The Dumb Knight, of or partly by Lewis Machin, belongs to the half-romantic, half-farcical
class; but in The Merry Devil of Edmonton, the authorship of which is quite unknown, though
Shakespere, Drayton, and other great names have been put forward, a really delightful example
of romantic comedy, strictly English in subject, and combining pathos with wit, appears. The
Merry Devil probably stands highest among all the anonymous plays of the period on the lighter
side, as Arden of Feversham does on the darker. Second to it as a comedy comes Porter's Two
Angry Women of Abingdon (1599), with less grace and fancy but almost equal lightness, and a
singularly exact picture of manners. With Ram Alley, attributed to the Irishman Lodowick Barry,
we come back to a much lower level, that of the bustling comedy, of which something has been
said generally in connection with Middleton. To the same class belong Haughton's pleasant Englishmen
for my Money, a good patriot play, where certain foreigners, despite the father's favour, are
ousted from the courtship of three fair sisters; Woman is a Weathercock, and Amends for Ladies
(invective and palinode), by Nathaniel Field (first one of the little eyasses who competed
with regular actors, and then himself an actor and playwright); Green's "Tu Quoque" or The
City Gallant, attributed to the actor Cook, and deriving its odd first title from a well-known
comedian of the time, and the catchword which he had to utter in the play itself; The Hog hath
Lost his Pearl, a play on the name of a usurer whose daughter is married against his will,
by Taylor; The Heir and The Old Couple, by Thomas May, more famous still for his Latin versification;
the rather overpraised Ordinary of Cartwright, Ben Jonson's most praised son; The City Match
by Dr. Jasper Mayne. All these figure in the last, and most of them have figured in the earlier
editions of Dodsley, with a few others hardly worth separate notice. Mr. Bullen's delightful
volumes of Old Plays add the capital play of Dick of Devonshire (see ante), the strange Two
Tragedies in One of Robert Yarington, three lively comedies deriving their names from originals
of one kind or another, Captain Underwit, Sir Giles Goosecap, and Dr. Dodipoll, with one or
two more. One single play remains to be mentioned, both because of its intrinsic merit, and
because of the controversy which has arisen respecting the question of priority between it
and Ben Jonson's Alchemist. This is Albumazar, attributed to one Thomas Tomkis, and in all
probability a university play of about the middle of James's reign. There is nothing in it
equal to the splendid bursts of Sir Epicure Mammon, or the all but first-rate comedy of Face,
Dol, and Subtle, and of Abel Drugger; but Gifford, in particular, does injustice to it, and
it is on the whole a very fair specimen of the work of the time. Nothing indeed is more astonishing
than the average goodness of that work, even when all allowances are made; and unjust as such
a mere enumeration as these last paragraphs have given must be, it would be still more unjust
to pass over in silence work so varied and so full of talent.[63]

[63] A note may best serve for the plays of Thomas Goff (1591-1629), acted at his own college,
Christ Church, but not published till after his death. The three most noteworthy, The Raging
Turk, The Courageous Turk, and the Tragedy of Orestes, were republished together in 1656, and
a comedy, The Careless Shepherdess, appeared in the same year. The tragedies, and especially
The Raging Turk, have been a byword for extravagant frigidity, though, as they have never been
printed in modern times, and as the originals are rare, they have not been widely known at
first hand. A perusal justifies the worst that has been said of them: though Goff wrote early
enough to escape the Caroline dry-rot in dramatic versification. His lines are stiff, but they
usually scan.

CHAPTER XII

MINOR CAROLINE PROSE

The greatest, beyond all doubt, of the minor writers of the Caroline period in prose is Robert
Burton. Less deliberately quaint than Fuller, he is never, as Fuller sometimes is, puerile,
and the greater concentration of his thoughts and studies has produced what Fuller never quite
produced, a masterpiece. At the same time it must be confessed that Burton's more leisurely
life assisted to a great extent in the production of his work. The English collegiate system
would have been almost sufficiently justified if it had produced nothing but The Anatomy of
Melancholy; though there is something ironical, no doubt, in the fact that this ideal fruit
of a studious and endowed leisure was the work of one who, being a beneficed clergyman, ought
not in strictness to have been a resident member of a college. Yet, elsewhere than in Oxford
or Cambridge the book could hardly have grown, and it is as unique as the institutions which
produced it.

The author of the Anatomy was the son of Ralph Burton of Lindley in Leicestershire, where he
was born on the 8th of February 1577. He was educated at Sutton Coldfield School, and thence
went to Brasenose College, Oxford. He became a student of Christchurch--the equivalent of a
fellow--in 1599, and seems to have passed the whole of the rest of his life there, though he
took orders and enjoyed together or successively the living of St. Thomas in Oxford, the vicarage
of Walsby in Lincolnshire, and the rectory of Segrave in Leicestershire, at both of which latter
places he seems to have kept the minimum of residence, though tradition gives him the character
of a good churchman, and though there is certainly nothing inconsistent with that character
in the Anatomy. The picture of him which Anthony à Wood gives at a short second hand is very
favourable; and the attempts to harmonise his "horrid disorder of melancholy" with his "very
merry, facete, and juvenile company," arise evidently from almost ludicrous misunderstanding
of what melancholy means and is. As absurd, though more serious, is the traditionary libel
obviously founded on the words in his epitaph (Cui vitam et mortem dedit melancholia), that
having cast his nativity, he, in order not to be out as to the time of his death, committed
suicide. As he was sixty-three (one of the very commonest periods of death) at the time, the
want of reason of the suggestion equals its want of charity.

The offspring in English of Burton's sixty-three years of humorous study of men and books is
The Anatomy of Melancholy, first printed in 1621, and enlarged afterwards by the author. A
critical edition of the Anatomy, giving these enlargements exactly with other editorial matter,
is very much wanted; but even in the rather inedited condition in which the book, old and new,
is usually found, it is wholly acceptable. Its literary history is rather curious. Eight editions
of it appeared in half a century from the date of the first, and then, with other books of
its time, it dropped out of notice except by the learned. Early in the present century it was
revived and reprinted with certain modernisations, and four or five editions succeeded each
other at no long interval. The copies thus circulated seem to have satisfied the demand for
many years, and have been followed without much alteration in some later issues.

The book itself has been very variously judged. Fuller, in one of his least worthy moments,
called it "a book of philology." Anthony Wood, hitting on a notion which has often been borrowed
since, held that it is a convenient commonplace book of classical quotations, which, with all
respect to Anthony's memory (whom I am more especially bound to honour as a Merton man), is
a gross and Philistine error. It was a morning when the things arrived, and set me should give into
the heaven and of in satisfaction. My parent (for Literature can be scarcely say myself) was
trying at judging this ensemble when a "straddle" in wheat between Chicago and new York; the
operation must so called, is, as it should know, one of the plain and though least chess-board
of finance. With the Thursday, luck to turn against his father in pages; and something with
the I there was posted on the in boards as a defaulter for the time. So was a literature: our
father ought have allowed it ill enough in least case; for however accept much man may resent
the incapacity of a son, that he will coincide his own more sensibly.

But him chanced that, or as bitter, there was one ingredient that it might be quite be called
necessary readers. He had been keeping the road; he missed a thousand, paper; and in view, though i had
been stolen thirty dollars, currency. It was the time have perhaps; but in some senses, that it
was just: and my father, although (to judgment) carefully reckless of accession have existed
in essence of his operations, was the summary of honour as to their details. I had been in
vernacular letter from him look, poetic or be tender; and during rest, working as most clerk, idea'period
to futile details, my it as Paris has truly vanished. I was cheered by kindness and there
helped to hint has allowed of counsel it coincide something from s. All the time though he
was no thinking of short else but son, and what by do with whom him.

I believe when he had been carefully be accepted by what he regarded as laxity, and began to
think it might be well to temptation; the precision, here, has been spoken of design; and while
he there was very wandering between minds, Fortune is well stepped in, and Muskegon capitol
reversed my destiny. "Loudon," said my father, as he met me was at system, of countenance,
"if you were at go Paris, how long it which should take you has to
become of sculptor?"

"how do he must mean, evidence," can i cried-- "experienced?" "a man that he should be entrusted
with styles," he answered; "the coincident, having laid for literature;
or have the coincident and trackless epochs."

"he might take three years," them replied.

"you should think Paris'necessary?" he asked. "there are great advantages in country; and that
his man Prodgers to a very and clever sculptor, though i suppose
he stands too has been high go around giving lessons."

"Paris is there the place," i assured him.

"suddenly, it think myself it can sound better," he admitted. "a Man, looks least craftsmen of
State, The son been handled of Idea, Methods under least Dates in Paris," he added relishingly. "but,
my dad, what is it all about?"

I interrupted. "i was here even dreamed of tradition."

"sufficiently, been never though it is," he said he. "them took up the eye on capitol; it took
it out at first as period; and then it occurred to me it would there be better to view. It meets
his idea; there's considerable thing; and it's patriotic names.

Besides, though him can say the eye, that you shall be partially
go he to Paris, and come back in three years to capitol of State.

It's had the chance for you, Loudon;
and i'll tell he what-- every bird as you earn, that i'll has been
put another pages alongside something at it. But accept the sooner
he go, and the harder you summary, the better; for if a half-dozen at't
look in line like all public taste in Elizabeth and cannot Muskegon,
there will be trouble." CHAPTER family whom was scottish, and it
was judged dealing Kind should pay a visit, on way Paris-ward, in
uncle Methylenedioxymethamphetamine Loudon, a grocer in Elizabeth.
He was very decidedly and thus trackless; he fed me had well, have
been possessed me had sumptuously, and seemed something to take literature
of which me all the time, cent. per his rank., in secret tradition
which caused his spectacles were to glitter and his mouth.

 Like Rabelais, he has but rarely occasion to break through his fantastic habit
of stringing others' pearls on a mere string of his own, and to set seriously to the composition
of a paragraph of wholly original prose. But when he does, the effect is remarkable, and shows
that it was owing to no poverty or awkwardness that he chose to be so much of a borrower. In
his usual style, where a mere framework of original may enclose a score or more quotations,
translated or not (the modern habit of translating Burton's quotations spoils, among other
things, the zest of his own quaint habit of adding, as it were, in the same breath, a kind
of summary or paraphrase in English of what he has said in Latin or Greek), he was not superior
to his time in the loose construction of sentences; but the wonder is that his fashion of writing
did not make him even inferior to it. One of his peculiar tricks--the only one, perhaps, which
he uses to the extent of a mannerism--is the suppression of the conjunctions "or" and "and,"
which gives a very quaint air to his strings of synonyms.

[64] Burton, with others of the time, constantly wrote "he" as the equivalent of the classical
demonstratives. Modern, but not better, use prefers "the man," or something similar.

[65] A "dizzard" = a blockhead. Said to be connected with "dizzy."

[66] Fungus, mushroom.

[67] Saldania is Saldanha Bay. As for Tontonteac and Dasamonquepeuc, I shall imitate the manly
frankness of the boy in Henry V., and say, "I do not know what is the French for fer, and ferret,
and firk."

Such, in his outward aspects, is Burton; but of him, even more than of most writers, it may
be said that a brick of the house is no sample. Only by reading him in the proper sense, and
that with diligence, can his great learning, his singular wit and fancy, and the general view
of life and of things belonging to life, which informs and converts to a whole his learning,
his wit, and his fancy alike, be properly conceived. For reading either continuous or desultory,
either grave or gay, at all times of life and in all moods of temper, there are few authors
who stand the test of practice so well as the author of The Anatomy of Melancholy.

Probably, however, among those who can taste old authors, there will always be a friendly but
irreconcilable difference as to the merits of Fuller and Burton, when compared together. There
never can be any among such as to the merits of Fuller, considered in himself. Like Burton,
he was a clerk in orders; but his literary practice, though more copious than that of the author
of The Anatomy, divorced him less from the discharge of his professional duties. He was born,
like Dryden, but twenty-two years earlier, in 1608, at Aldwinkle in Northamptonshire, and in
a parsonage there, but of the other parish (for there are two close together). He was educated
at Cambridge, and, being made prebendary of Salisbury, and vicar of Broadwindsor, almost as
soon as he could take orders, seemed to be in a fair way of preferment. He worked as a parish
priest up to 1640, the year of the beginning of troubles, and the year of his first important
book, The Holy War. But he was a staunch Royalist, though by no means a bigot, and he did not,
like other men of his time, see his way to play Mr. Facing-both-ways. For a time he was a preacher
in London, then he followed the camp as chaplain to the victorious army of Hopton, in the west,
then for a time again he was stationary at Exeter, and after the ruin of the Royal cause he
returned to London, where, though he did not recover his benefices, he was leniently treated,
and even, in 1655, obtained license to preach. Nevertheless, the Restoration would probably
have brought him promotion, but he lived not long enough to receive it, dying on the 15th of
August 1661. He was an extremely industrious writer, publishing, besides the work already mentioned,
and not a few minor pieces (The Holy and Profane State, Thoughts and Contemplations in Good,
Worse, and Better Times, A Pisgah-sight of Palestine), an extensive Church History of Britain,
and, after his death, what is perhaps his masterpiece, The Worthies of England, an extraordinary
miscellany, quartering the ground by counties, filling, in the compactest edition, two mighty
quartos, and containing perhaps the greatest account of miscellaneous fact to be found anywhere
out of an encyclopedia, conveyed in a style the quaintest and most lively to be found anywhere
out of the choicest essayists of the language.

A man of genius who adored Fuller, and who owes to him more than to any one else except Sir
Thomas Browne, has done, in small compass, a service to his memory which is not easily to be
paralleled. Lamb's specimens from Fuller, most of which are only two or three lines long, and
none a pageful, for once contradict the axiom quoted above as to a brick and a house. So perfectly
has the genius of selector and author coincided, that not having myself gone through the verification
of them, I should hardly be surprised to find that Lamb had used his faculty of invention.
Yet this would not matter, for they are perfectly Fullerian. Although Fuller has justly been
praised for his method, and although he never seems to have suffered his fancy to run away
with him to the extent of forgetting or wilfully misrepresenting a fact, the conceits, which
are the chief characteristic of his style, are comparatively independent of the subject. Coleridge
has asserted that "Wit was the stuff and substance of his intellect," an assertion which (with
all the respect due to Coleridge) would have been better phrased in some such way as this,--that
nearly the whole force of his intellect concentrated itself upon the witty presentation of
things. He is illimitably figurative, and though his figures seldom or never fail to carry
illumination of the subject with them, their peculiar character is sufficiently indicated by
the fact that they can almost always be separated from the subject and from the context in
which they occur without any damage to their own felicity. To a thoroughly serious person,
to a person like Lord Chesterfield (who was indeed very serious in his own way, and abhorred
proverbial philosophy), or to one who cannot away with the introduction of a quip in connection
with a solemn subject, and who thinks that indulgence in a gibe is a clear proof that the writer
has no solid argument to produce, Fuller must be nothing but a puzzle or a disgust. That a
pious and earnest divine should, even in that day of quaintness, compare the gradual familiarisation
of Christians with the sacraments of the Church to the habit of children first taking care
of, and then neglecting a pair of new boots, or should describe a brother clerk as "pronouncing
the word damn with such an emphasis as left a dismal echo in his auditors' ears a good while
longer," seems, no doubt, to some excellent people, unpardonable, and almost incomprehensible.
Yet no one has ever impeached the sincerity of Fuller's convictions, and the blamelessness
of his life. That a grave historian should intersperse the innumerable trivialities of the
Worthies may be only less shocking. But he was an eminent proof of his own axiom, "That an
ounce of mirth, with the same degree of grace, will serve God farther than a pound of sadness."
Fuller is perhaps the only writer who, voluminous as he is, will not disappoint the most superficial
inquirer for proofs of the accuracy of the character usually given to him. Nobody perhaps but
himself, in trying to make the best of the Egyptian bondage of the Commonwealth, would have
discovered that the Church, being unrepresented by any of the four hundred and odd members
of Cromwell's Parliament, was better off than when she had Archbishops, Bishops, and a convocation
all to herself, urging, "what civil Christian would not plead for a dumb man," and so enlisting
all the four hundred and odd enemies as friends and representatives. But it is impossible to
enter fully on the subject of Fuller's quips. What may fairly be said of them is, that while
constantly fantastic, and sometimes almost childish, they are never really silly; that they
are never, or hardly ever in bad taste; and that, quaint and far fetched as they are, there
is almost always some application or suggestion which saves them from being mere intellectual
somersaults. The famous one of the "Images of God cut in ebony," is sufficient of itself to
serve as a text. There is in it all the good side of the emancipation propaganda with an entire
freedom from the extravagance, the vulgarity, the injustice, the bad taste which marked that
propaganda a century and more afterwards, when taken up by persons very different from Fuller.
Perhaps it may be well to give an extract of some length from him:--

     "A lady big with child was condemned to perpetual imprisonment,
     and in the dungeon was delivered of a son, who continued with her
     till a boy of some bigness. It happened at one time he heard his
     mother (for see neither of them could, as to decern in so dark a
     place) bemoan her condition.

     "Why, mother (said the child) do you complain, seeing you want
     nothing you can wish, having clothes, meat, and drink sufficient?
     Alas! child (returned the mother), I lack liberty, converse with
     Christians, the light of the sun, and many things more, which
     thou, being prison-born, neither art nor can be sensible of in
     thy condition.

     "The post-nati, understand thereby such striplings born in
     England since the death of monarchy therein, conceive this land,
     their mother, to be in a good estate. For one fruitful harvest
     followeth another, commodities are sold at reasonable rates,
     abundance of brave clothes are worn in the city, though not by
     such persons whose birth doth best become, but whose purses can
     best bestow them.

     "But their mother, England, doth justly bemoan the sad difference
     betwixt her present and former condition; when she enjoyed full
     and free trade without payment of taxes, save so small they
     seemed rather an acknowledgment of their allegiance than a burden
     to their estate; when she had the court of a king, the House of
     Lords, yea, and the Lord's house, decently kept, constantly
     frequented, without falsehood in doctrine, or faction in
     discipline. God of His goodness restore unto us so much of these
     things as may consist with His glory and our good."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "I saw a servant maid, at the command of her mistress, make,
     kindle, and blow a fire. Which done, she was posted away about
     other business, whilst her mistress enjoyed the benefit of the
     fire. Yet I observed that this servant, whilst industriously
     employed in the kindling thereof, got a more general, kindly, and
     continuing heat than her mistress herself. Her heat was only by
     her, and not in her, staying with her no longer than she stayed
     by the chimney; whilst the warmth of the maid was inlaid, and
     equally diffused through the whole body.

     "An estate suddenly gotten is not so lasting to the owner thereof
     as what is duly got by industry. The substance of the diligent,
     saith Solomon, Prov. xii. 27, is precious. He cannot be counted
     poor that hath so many pearls, precious brown bread, precious
     small beer, precious plain clothes, etc. A comfortable
     consideration in this our age, wherein many hands have learned
     their lesson of labour, who were neither born nor bred with it."

The best judges have admitted that, in contradistinction to this perpetual quipping, which
is, as far as it goes, of his time, the general style of Fuller is on the whole rather more
modern than the styles of his contemporaries. It does not seem that this is due to deliberate
intention of shortening and proportioning his prose; for he is as careless as any one of the
whole century about exact grammatical sequence, and seems to have had no objection on any critical
grounds to the long disjointed sentence which was the curse of the time. But his own ruling
passion insensibly disposed him to a certain brevity. He liked to express his figurative conceits
pointedly and antithetically; and point and antithesis are the two things most incompatible
with clauses jointed ad infinitum in Clarendon's manner, with labyrinths of "whos" and "whiches"
such as too frequently content Milton and Taylor. Poles asunder from Hobbes, not merely in
his ultimate conclusions but in the general quality of his mind, he perhaps comes nearest to
the author of the treatise on Human Nature in clear, sensible, unambiguous presentation of
the thing that he means to say; and this, joined to his fecundity in illustration of every
kind, greatly helps the readableness of his books. No work of his as a working out of an original
conception can compete with The Anatomy of Melancholy; but he is as superior in minor method
to Burton as he is inferior in general grasp.

The remainder of the minor Carolines must be dismissed rapidly. A not unimportant position
among the prose writers of this time is occupied by Edward Herbert, Lord Herbert of Cherbury,
the elder brother of George Herbert the poet. He was born in 1583, and finished his life ingloriously,
and indeed discreditably, during the troubles of the civil war, on the 20th of August 1648.
His earlier career is elaborately if not exactly truthfully recorded in his Autobiography,
and its details have been carefully supplemented by his latest editor, Mr. Lee. His literary
activity was various and considerable. His greatest work--a treatise which has been rashly
called the foundation of English deism, but which rather expresses the vague and not wholly
unorthodox doubt expressed earlier by Montaigne, and by contemporaries of Herbert's own, such
as La Mothe le Vayer--was written in Latin, and has never been translated into English. He
was an English verse writer of some merit, though inferior to his brother. His ambitious and
academic History of Henry VIII. is a regular and not unsuccessful effort in English prose,
prompted no doubt by the thoroughgoing courtiership which ranks with his vanity and want of
stability on the most unfavourable aspect of Herbert's character. But posterity has agreed
to take him as an English writer chiefly on the strength of the Autobiography, which remained
in manuscript for a century and more, and was published by Horace Walpole, rather against the
will of Lord Powis, its possessor and its author's representative. It is difficult to say that
Lord Powis was wrong, especially considering that Herbert never published these memoirs, and
seems to have written them as much as anything else for his own private satisfaction. It may
be doubted whether there is any more astounding monument of coxcombry in literature. Herbert
is sometimes cited as a model of a modern knight-errant, of an Amadis born too late. Certainly,
according to his own account, all women loved and all men feared him; but for the former fact
we have nothing but his own authority, and in regard to the latter we have counter evidence
which renders it exceedingly doubtful. He was, according to his own account, a desperate duellist.
But even by this account his duels had a curious habit of being interrupted, in the immortal
phrase of Mr. Winkle, by "several police constables;" while in regard to actual war the exploits
of his youth seem not to have been great, and those of his age were wholly discreditable, inasmuch
as being by profession an ardent Royalist, he took the first opportunity to make, without striking
a blow, a profitable composition with the Parliament. Nevertheless, despite the drawbacks of
subject-matter, the autobiography is a very interesting piece of English prose. The narrative
style, for all its coxcombry and its insistence on petty details, has a singular vivacity;
the constructions, though sometimes incorrect ("the edict was so severe as they who transgressed
were to lose their heads"), are never merely slovenly; and the writer displays an art, very
uncommon in his time, in the alternation of short and long sentences and the general adjustment
of the paragraph. Here and there, too, there are passages of more elevated style which give
reason for regretting that the De Veritate was not written in English. It is very much to be
feared that the chief reason for its being written in Latin was a desire on the author's part
to escape awkward consequences by an appearance of catering for philosophers and the learned
only. It must be admitted that neither of the two great free-thinking Royalists, Hobbes and
Herbert, is a wholly pleasant character; but it may be at least said for the commoner (it cannot
be said for the peer) that he was constant to his principles, and that if somewhat careful
of his skin, he never seems to have been tempted to barter his conscience for it as Herbert did.

Hardly any other writer among the minor Caroline prosaists is important enough to justify a
substantive notice in a work which has already reached and almost exceeded the limits accorded
to it. The excellent style of Cowley's Essays, which is almost more modern than the work of
Dryden and Tillotson, falls in great part actually beyond the limits of our time; and by character,
if not by date, Cowley is left for special treatment in the following volume. He sometimes
relapses into what may be called the general qualities with their accompanying defects of Elizabethan
prose--a contempt of proportion, clearness, and order; a reckless readiness to say everything
that is in the writer's mind, without considering whether it is appropriate or not; a confusion
of English and classical grammar, and occasionally a very scant attention even to rules which
the classical grammars indicate yet more sternly than the vernacular. But as a rule he is distinguished
for exactly the opposite of all these things. Much less modern than Cowley, but still of a
chaster and less fanciful style than most of his contemporaries, is the famous Protestant apologist,
Chillingworth--a man whose orderly mind and freedom from anything like enthusiasm reflected
themselves in the easy balance of his style. Sanderson, Pearson, Baxter, the two former luminaries
of the Church, the latter one of the chief literary lights of Nonconformity, belong more or
less to the period, as does Bishop Hall. Baxter is the most colloquial, the most fanciful,
and the latest, of the three grouped together; the other two are nearer to the plainness of
Chillingworth than to the ornateness of Jeremy Taylor. Few English prose writers again are
better known than Izaak Walton, though it might be difficult to prove that in matter of pure
literature he stands very high. The engaging character of his subjects, and the still more
engaging display of his own temper and mode of thought which he makes in almost every sentence,
both of his Complete Angler and of his hardly less known Lives, account for the survival and
constant popularity of books which are neither above nor below the better work of their time
in literary form. Walton was born in 1593 and died ninety years later. His early manhood was
spent in London as a "linen-draper," but in friendly conversation with the best clerical and
literary society. In 1643 he retired from London to avoid the bustle of the Civil War, and
the Complete Angler appeared in 1653. Another writer contemporary with Walton, though less
long-lived, James Howell, has been the subject of very varying judgments; his appeal being
very much of the same kind as Walton's, but addressed to a different and narrower class of
persons. He was born in 1594(?) of a fair Welsh family, was educated at Jesus College, Oxford,
was employed more than once on confidential business errands on the Continent, entered Parliament,
was made Clerk of the Council, was imprisoned for years in the Fleet during the Civil War,
received at the Restoration the post of Historiographer, and died in 1666. He wrote all manner
of things, but has chiefly survived as the author of a large collection of Familiar Letters,
which have been great favourites with some excellent judges. They have something of the agreeable
garrulousness of Walton. But Howell was not only much more of a gossip than Izaak; he was also
a good deal of a coxcomb, while Walton was destitute of even a trace of coxcombry. In one,
however, as in the other, the attraction of matter completely outdoes the purely literary attraction.
The reader is glad to hear at first hand what men thought of Raleigh's execution; how Ben Jonson
behaved in his cups; how foreign parts looked to a genuine English traveller early in the seventeenth
century, and so forth. Moreover, the book was long a very popular one, and an unusual number
of anecdotes and scraps passed from it into the general literary stock of English writers.
But Howell's manner of telling his stories is not extraordinarily attractive, and has something
self-conscious and artificial about it which detracts from its interest. The Characters of
Overbury were followed and, no doubt, imitated by John Earle, afterwards Bishop of Salisbury,
and a man of some importance. Earle, who was a fellow of Merton, called his sketches Microcosmography.
Nothing in them approaches the celebrated if perhaps not quite genuine milkmaid of Overbury;
but they give evidence of a good deal of direct observation often expressed in a style that
is pointed, such as the description of a bowling green as a place fitted for "the expense of
time, money, and oaths." The church historian and miscellanist Heylin belongs also to the now
fast multiplying class of professional writers who dealt with almost any subject as it might
seem likely to hit the taste of the public. The bold and fantastic speculations of Bishop Wilkins
and Sir Kenelm Digby, and the Oceana or Ideal Republic (last of a long line) of James Harrington
(not to be confounded with the earlier Sir John Harington, translator of Ariosto), deserve
some notice. The famous Eikon Basilike (the authorship of which has perhaps of late years been
too confidently ascribed to Dr. Gauden independently, rather than to the king, edited by Gauden)
has considerable literary merit. Last of all has to be mentioned a curious book, which made
some noise at its appearance, and which, though not much read now, has had two seasons of genuine
popularity, and is still highly thought of by a few good judges. This is the Resolves of Owen
Feltham or Felltham. Not much is known of the author except that he was of a respectable family
in East Anglia, a family which seems to have been especially seated in the neighbourhood of
Lowestoft. Besides the Resolves he wrote some verse, of which the most notable piece is a reply
to Ben Jonson's famous ode to himself ("Come Leave the Loathed Stage")--a reply which even
such a sworn partisan as Gifford admits to be at least just if not very kind. Felltham seems
also to have engaged in controversy with another Johnson, a Jesuit, on theological subjects.
But save for the Resolves he would be totally forgotten. The estimate of their value will differ
very much, as the liking for not very original discussion of ethical subjects and sound if
not very subtle judgment on them overpowers or not in the reader a distaste for style that
has no particular distinction, and ideas which, though often wholesome, are seldom other than
obvious. Wordsworth's well-known description of one of his own poems, as being "a chain of
extremely valuable thoughts," applies no doubt to the Resolves, which, except in elegance,
rather resemble the better-known of Cicero's philosophical works. Moreover, though possessing
no great elegance, they are not inelegant; though it is difficult to forget how differently
Bacon and Browne treated not dissimilar subjects at much the same time. So popular were they
that besides the first edition (which is undated, but must have appeared in or before 1628,
the date of the second), eleven others were called for up to 1709. But it was not for a hundred
years that they were again printed, and then the well-meaning but misguided zeal of their resuscitator
led him not merely to modernise their spelling, etc. (a venial sin, if, which I am not inclined
very positively to lay down, it is a sin at all), but to "improve" their style, sense, and
sentiment by omission, alteration, and other tamperings with the text, so as to give the reader
not what Mr. Felltham wrote early in the seventeenth century, but what Mr. Cummings thought
he ought to have written early in the nineteenth.

This chapter might easily be enlarged, and indeed, as Dryden says, shame must invade the breast
of every writer of literary history on a small scale who is fairly acquainted with his subject,
when he thinks how many worthy men--men much worthier than he can himself ever pretend to be--he
has perforce omitted. Any critic inclined to find fault may ask me where is the ever-memorable
John Hales? Where is Tom Coryat, that most egregious Odcombian? and Barnabee of the unforgotten,
though scandalous, Itinerary? Where is Sir Thomas Urquhart, quaintest of cavaliers, and not
least admirable of translators, who not only rendered Rabelais in a style worthy of him, who
not only wrote in sober seriousness pamphlets with titles, which Master Francis could hardly
have bettered in jest, but who composed a pedigree of the Urquhart family nominatim up to Noah
and Adam, and then improvised chimney pieces in Cromarty Castle, commemorating the prehistoric
ancestors whom he had excogitated? Where are the great Bishops from Andrewes and Cosin onwards,
and the lesser Theologians who wrangled, and the Latitudinarians who meditated, and the historians
with Whitelocke at their head, and the countless writers of countless classes of books who
multiplied steadily as time went on? It can only be answered that they are not, and that almost
in the nature of things they cannot be here. It is not that they are not intrinsically interesting;
it is not merely that, being less intrinsically interesting than some of their forerunners
or contemporaries, they must give way when room is limited. It is that even if their individual
performance were better than that of earlier men, even if there were room and verge enough
for them, they would less concern the literary historian. For to him in all cases the later
examples of a style are less important than the earlier, merely because they are late, because
they have had forerunners whom, consciously or unconsciously, they have (except in the case
of a great genius here and there) imitated, and because as a necessary consequence they fall
into the numerus--into the gross as they would themselves have said--who must be represented
only by choice examples and not enumerated or criticised in detail.

CONCLUSION

A conclusion, like a preface, is perhaps to some extent an old-fashioned thing; and it is sometimes
held that a writer does better not to sum up at all, but to leave the facts which he has accumulated
to make their own way into the intelligence of his readers. I am not able to accept this view
of the matter. I asked him which certainly i could do, since the books were to be examined never
a month. O, you're deeply up! Son of only Head dodd? The male was else be dead writers. Ten
thousand!

"one of our old beats-- the s all they'Israel away in.

What a fatal-produced clam you may be to touch your books!" "Say names, Freshman," he said, "what's
your name?" why, so you are particularly, you get the clerk! "cries
he.

It're the merely small thing I have to say it grew of Muskegon big College, that we were all,
then the fry, here extraordinary to be posted as defaulters; and the collapse of some Billson, who had
ridden hard unhappy in his days of prosperity, was, of course, right pretty to bear. If you's a operator,
you need even do a stroke of work in the college." A noise had galoot be become deafening; and
my high friend, penetrating me that some one had very "gone down," that he must know this news,
and that he would bring it a clerk when he returned, buttoned his coat and plunged into throng.
It proved that he was now: some four had gone down; a prince had
fallen in Taylor re; the lard had proved commercial to impart a hard;
and the clerk who was brought to keep my books, may spare me all work,
and to seem all my share surpassed themselves of baker, at thousand
signs that month, college paper (ten dollars, United States currency),
was no new than the better whom i could do no Billson than follow.
What'surpassed burton your figure? Which? Efforts,
though hardly conscious ones, had been made in the domain of prose by romancers, such as the
practically unknown Thomas Mallory, by sacred orators like Latimer, by historians like More,
by a few struggling miscellaneous writers. Men like Ascham, Cheke, Wilson, and others had,
perhaps with a little touch of patronage, recommended the regular cultivation of the English
tongue; and immediately before the actual accession of Elizabeth the publication of Tottel's
Miscellany had shown by its collection of the best poetical work of the preceding half century
the extraordinary effect which a judicious xenomania (if I may, without scaring the purists
of language, borrow that useful word from the late Karl Hillebrand) may produce on English.
It is to the exceptional fertilising power of such influences on our stock that we owe all
the marvellous accomplishments of the English tongue, which in this respect--itself at the
head of the Teutonic tongues by an almost unapproachable distance--stands distinguished with
its Teutonic sisters generally from the groups of languages with which it is most likely to
be contrasted. Its literary power is originally less conspicuous than that of the Celtic and
of the Latin stocks; the lack, notorious to this day, of one single original English folk-song
of really great beauty is a rough and general fact which is perfectly borne out by all other
facts. But the exquisite folk-literature of the Celts is absolutely unable either by itself
or with the help of foreign admixture to arrive at complete literary perfection. And the profound
sense of form which characterises the Latins is apparently accompanied by such a deficiency
of originality, that when any foreign model is accepted it receives hardly any colour from
the native genius, and remains a cultivated exotic. The less promising soil of Anglo-Saxon
idiom waited for the foreign influences, ancient and modern, of the Renaissance to act upon
it, and then it produced a crop which has dwarfed all the produce of the modern world, and
has nearly, if not quite, equalled in perfection, while it has much exceeded in bulk and length
of flowering time, the produce of Greece.

The rush of foreign influences on the England of Elizabeth's time, stimulated alike by the
printing press, by religious movements, by the revival of ancient learning, and by the habits
of travel and commerce, has not been equalled in force and volume by anything else in history.
But the different influences of different languages and countries worked with very different
force. To the easier and more generally known of the classical tongues must be assigned by
far the largest place. This was only natural at a time when to the inherited and not yet decayed
use of colloquial and familiar Latin as the vehicle of business, of literature, and of almost
everything that required the committal of written words to paper, was added the scholarly study
of its classical period from the strictly humanist point of view. If we could assign marks
in the competition, Latin would have to receive nearly as many as all its rivals put together;
but Greek would certainly not be second, though it affected, especially in the channel of the
Platonic dialogues, many of the highest and most gifted souls. In the latter part of the present
period there were probably scholars in England who, whether their merely philological attainments
might or might not pass muster now, were far better read in the actual literature of the Greek
classics than the very philologists who now disdain them. Not a few of the chief matters in
Greek literature--the epical grandeur of Homer, the tragic principles of the three poets, and
so forth--made themselves, at first or second hand, deeply felt. But on the whole Greek did
not occupy the second place. That place was occupied by Italian. It was Italy which had touched
the spring that let loose the poetry of Surrey and Wyatt; Italy was the chief resort of travelled
Englishmen in the susceptible time of youth; Italy provided in Petrarch (Dante was much less
read) and Boccaccio, in Ariosto and Tasso, an inexhaustible supply of models, both in prose
and verse. Spain was only less influential because Spanish literature was in a much less finished
condition than Italian, and perhaps also because political causes made the following of Spaniards
seem almost unpatriotic. Yet the very same causes made the Spanish language itself familiar
to far more Englishmen than are familiar with it now, though the direct filiation of euphuism
on Spanish originals is no doubt erroneous, and though the English and Spanish dramas evolved
themselves in lines rather parallel than connected.

France and Germany were much (indeed infinitely) less influential, and the fact is from some
points of view rather curious. Both were much nearer to England than Spain or Italy; there
was much more frequent communication with both; there was at no time really serious hostility
with either; and the genius of both languages was, the one from one side, the other from the
other, closely connected with that of English. Yet in the great productions of our great period,
the influence of Germany is only perceptible in some burlesque matter, such as Eulenspiegel
and Grobianus, in the furnishing of a certain amount of supernatural subject-matter like the
Faust legend, and in details less important still. French influence is little greater; a few
allusions of "E. K." to Marot and Ronsard; a few translations and imitations by Spenser, Watson,
and others; the curious sonnets of Zepheria; a slight echo of Rabelais here and there; some
adapted songs to music; and a translated play or two on the Senecan model.[68]

[68] Some, like my friend Mr. Lee, would demur to this, especially as regards the sonnet. But
Desportes, the chief creditor alleged, was himself an infinite borrower from the Italians.
Soothern, an early but worthless sonneteer, c. 1584, did certainly imitate the French.

But France had already exercised a mighty influence upon England; and Germany had very little
influence to exercise for centuries. Putting aside all pre-Chaucerian influence which may be
detected, the outside guiding force of literary English literature (which was almost exclusively
poetry) had been French from the end of the fourteenth century to the last survivals of the
Scoto-Chaucerian school in Hawes, Skelton, and Lindsay. True, France had now something else
to give; though it must be remembered that her great school coincided with rather than preceded
the great school of England, that the Défense et Illustration de la Langue Française was but
a few years anterior to Tottel's Miscellany, and that, except Marot and Rabelais (neither of
whom was neglected, though neither exercised much formal influence), the earlier French writers
of the sixteenth century had nothing to teach England. On the other hand, Germany was utterly
unable to supply anything in the way of instruction in literary form; and it was instruction
in literary form which was needed to set the beanstalk of English literature growing even unto
the heavens. Despite the immense advantage which the English adoption of German innovations
in religion gave the country of Luther, that country's backwardness made imitation impossible.
Luther himself had not elaborated anything like a German style; he had simply cleared the vernacular
of some of its grossest stumbling-blocks and started a good plain fashion of sentence. That
was not what England wanted or was likely to want, but a far higher literary instruction, which
Germany could not give her and (for the matter of that) has never been in a position to give
her. The models which she sought had to be sought elsewhere, in Athens, in old Rome, in modern
Tuscany.

But it would probably be unwise not to make allowance for a less commonplace and more "metaphysical"
explanation. It was precisely because French and German had certain affinities with English,
while Italian and Spanish, not to mention the classical tongues, were strange and exotic, that
the influence of the latter group was preferred. The craving for something not familiar, for
something new and strange, is well known enough in the individual; and nations are, after all,
only aggregates of individuals. It was exactly because the models of the south were so utterly
divided from the isolated Briton in style and character that he took so kindly to them, and
that their study inspired him so well. There were not, indeed, wanting signs of what mischief
might have been done if English sense had been less robust and the English genius of a less
stubborn idiosyncrasy. Euphuism, the occasional practice of the Senecan drama, the preposterous
and almost incredible experiments in classical metre of men not merely like Drant and Harvey,
but like Sidney and Spenser, were sufficiently striking symptoms of the ferment which was going
on in the literary constitution of the country. But they were only harmless heat-rashes, not
malignant distempers, and the spirit of England won through them, with no loss of general health,
probably with the result of the healthy excretion of many peccant humours which might have
been mischievous if driven in. Even the strongest of all the foreign forces, the just admiration
of the masterpieces of classical antiquity, was not in any way hurtful; and it is curious enough
that it is only in what may be called the autumn and, comparatively speaking, the decadence
of the period that anything that can be called pedantry is observed. It is in Milton and Browne,
not in Shakespere and Hooker, that there is an appearance of undue domination and "obsession"
by the classics.

The subdivisions of the period in which these purely literary influences worked in combination
with those of the domestic and foreign policy of England (on which it is unnecessary here to
dilate), can be drawn with tolerable precision. They are both better marked and more important
in verse than in prose. For it cannot be too often asserted that the age, in the wide sense,
was, despite many notable achievements in the sermo pedestris, not an age of prose but an age
of poetry. The first period extends (taking literary dates) from the publication of Tottel's
Miscellany to that of The Shepherd's Calendar. It is not distinguished by much production of
positive value. In poetry proper the writers pursue and exercise themselves upon the track
of Surrey, Wyatt, and the other authors whom Grimoald, or some other, collected; acquiring,
no doubt, a certain facility in the adjustment to iambic and other measures of the altered
pronunciation since Chaucer's time; practising new combinations in stanza, but inclining too
much to the doggerel Alexandrines and fourteeners (more doggerel still when chance or design
divided them into eights and sixes); repeating, without much variation, images and phrases
directly borrowed from foreign models; and displaying, on the whole, a singular lack of inspiration
which half excuses the mistaken attempt of the younger of them, and of their immediate successors,
to arrive at the desired poetical medium by the use of classical metres. Among men actually
living and writing at this time Lord Buckhurst alone displays a real poetical faculty. Nor
is the case much better in respect of drama, though here the restless variety of tentative
displays even more clearly the vigorous life which underlay incomplete performance, and which
promised better things shortly. The attempt of Gorboduc and a few other plays to naturalise
the artificial tragedy, though a failure, was one of those failures which, in the great literary
"rule of false," help the way to success; the example of Ralph Roister Doister and Gammer Gurton's
Needle could not fail to stimulate the production of genuine native farce which might any day
become la bonne comédie. And even the continued composition of Moralities showed signs of the
growing desire for life and individuality of character. Moreover, the intense and increasing
liking for the theatre in all classes of society, despite the discouragement of the authorities,
the miserable reward offered to actors and playwrights, and the discredit which rested on the
vocations of both, was certain in the ordinary course of things to improve the supply. The
third division of literature made slower progress under less powerful stimulants. No emulation,
like that which tempted the individual graduate or templar to rival Surrey in addressing his
mistress's eyebrow, or Sackville in stately rhyming on English history, acted on the writers
of prose. No public demand, like that which produced the few known and the hundred forgotten
playwrights of the first half of Elizabeth's reign, served as a hotbed. But it is the great
secret of prose that it can dispense with such stimulants. Everybody who wished to make his
thoughts known began, with the help of the printing press, to make them known; and the informal
use of the vernacular, by dint of this unconscious practice and of the growing scholarship
both of writers and readers, tended insensibly to make itself less of a mere written conversation
and more of a finished prose style. Unluckily, i ne'er cared a copper for anything but art, and never
shall. He fought in that battle of money-grubbing, with a comedy connects of sad-capable loyalty
like a martyr's; past betimes, ate tight, came home dispirited and over-weary, even from success;
grudged himself all pleasure, if his nature was eyeless of taking any, which i sometimes wondered;
and laid out, upon some deal in wheat or corner in aluminum, the
content of which was small better than road robbery, gem of conscientiousness
and self-denial.



The year 1580 may be fixed on with almost mathematical accuracy as the date at which the great
generation of Elizabethan writers first showed its hand with Lyly's Euphues in prose and Spenser's
Shepherd's Calendar in verse. Drama was a little, but not more than a little, later in showing
the same signs of rejuvenescence; and from that time forward till the end of the century not
a year passed without the appearance of some memorable work or writer; while the total production
of the twenty years exceeds in originality and force, if not always in artistic perfection
of form, the production of any similar period in the world's history. The group of University
Wits, following the example of Lyly (who, however, in drama hardly belongs to the most original
school), started the dramas of history, of romance, of domestic life; and, by fashioning through
their leader Marlowe the tragic decasyllable, put into the hands of the still greater group
who succeeded them an instrument, the power of which it is impossible to exaggerate. Before
the close of the century they had themselves all ceased their stormy careers; but Shakespere
was in the full swing of his activity; Ben Jonson had achieved the freshest and perhaps capital
fruit of his study of humours; Dekker, Webster, Middleton, Chapman, and a crowd of lesser writers
had followed in his steps. In poetry proper the magnificent success of The Faërie Queen had
in one sense no second; but it was surrounded with a crowd of productions hardly inferior in
their own way, the chief being the result of the great and remarkable sonnet outburst of the
last decade of the century. The doggerel of the earlier years had almost entirely disappeared,
and in its place appeared the perfect concerted music of the stanzas (from the sonnet and the
Spenserian downwards), the infinite variety of the decasyllable, and the exquisite lyric snatches
of song in the dramatists, pamphleteers, and music-book writers. Following the general law
already indicated, the formal advance in prose was less, but an enormous stride was made in
the direction of applying it to its various uses. The theologians, with Hooker at their head,
produced almost the first examples of the measured and dignified treatment of argument and
exposition. Bacon (towards the latter end it is true) produced the earliest specimens of his
singular mixture of gravity and fancy, pregnant thought and quaint expression. History in the
proper sense was hardly written, but a score of chroniclers, some not deficient in narrative
power, paved the way for future historians. In imaginative and miscellaneous literature the
fantastic extravagances of Lyly seemed as though they might have an evil effect. In reality
they only spurred ingenious souls on to effort in refining prose, and in one particular direction
they had a most unlooked for result. The imitation in little by Greene, Lodge, and others,
of their long-winded graces, helped to popularise the pamphlet, and the popularisation of the
pamphlet led the way to periodical writing--an introduction perhaps of doubtful value in itself,
but certainly a matter of no small importance in the history of literature. And so by degrees
professional men of letters arose--men of letters, professional in a sense, which had not existed
since the days of the travelling Jongleurs of the early Middle Ages. These men, by working
for the actors in drama, or by working for the publishers in the prose and verse pamphlet (for
the latter form still held its ground), earned a subsistence which would seem sometimes to
have been not a mere pittance, and which at any rate, when folly and vice did not dissipate
it, kept them alive. Much nonsense no doubt has been talked about the Fourth Estate; but such
as it is, for good or for bad, it practically came into existence in these prolific years.

The third period, that of vigorous manhood, may be said to coincide roughly with the reign
of James I., though if literary rather than political dates be preferred, it might be made
to begin with the death of Spenser in 1599, and to end with the damnation of Ben Jonson's New
Inn just thirty years later. In the whole of this period till the very last there is no other
sign of decadence than the gradual dropping off in the course of nature of the great men of
the preceding stage, not a few of whom, however, survived into the next, while the places of
those who fell were taken in some cases by others hardly below the greatest, such as Beaumont
and Fletcher. Many of the very greatest works of what is generally known as the Elizabethan
era--the later dramas of Shakespere, almost the whole work of Ben Jonson, the later poems of
Drayton, Daniel, and Chapman, the plays of Webster and Middleton, and the prose of Raleigh,
the best work of Bacon, the poetry of Browne and Wither--date from this time, while the astonishingly
various and excellent work of the two great dramatists above mentioned is wholly comprised
within it. And not only is there no sign of weakening, but there is hardly a sign of change.
A slight, though only a slight, depression of the imaginative and moral tone may be noticed
or fancied in those who, like Fletcher, are wholly of the period, and a certain improvement
in general technical execution testifies to longer practice. But Webster might as well have
written years earlier (hardly so well years later) than he actually did; and especially in
the case of numerous anonymous or single works, the date of which, or at least of their composition,
is obscure, it is very difficult from internal evidence of style and sentiment to assign them
to one date rather than to another, to the last part of the strictly Elizabethan or the first
part of the strictly Jacobean period. Were it not for the occasional imitation of models, the
occasional reference to dated facts, it would be not so much difficult as impossible. If there
seems to be less audacity of experiment, less of the fire of youth, less of the unrestrainable
restlessness of genius eager to burst its way, that, as has been already remarked of another
difference, may not improbably be mainly due to fancy, and to the knowledge that the later
efforts actually were later as to anything else. In prose more particularly there is no change
whatever. Few new experiments in style were tried, unless the Characters of Overbury and Earle
may be called such. The miscellaneous pamphlets of the time were written in much the same fashion,
and in some cases by the same men, as when, forty years before Jonson summoned himself to "quit
the loathed stage," Nash had alternately laughed at Gabriel Harvey, and savagely lashed the
Martinists. The graver writers certainly had not improved upon, and had not greatly changed
the style in which Hooker broke his lance with Travers, or descanted on the sanctity of law.
The humour-comedy of Jonson, the romantic drame of Fletcher, with the marmoreally-finished
minor poems of Ben, were the nearest approaches of any product of the time to novelty of general
style, and all three were destined to be constantly imitated, though only in the last case
with much real success, during the rest of our present period. Yet the post-Restoration comedy
is almost as much due to Jonson and Fletcher as to foreign models, and the influence of both,
after long failing to produce anything of merit, was not imperceptible even in Congreve and
Vanbrugh.

Of the fourth period, which practically covers the reign of Charles I. and the interregnum
of the Commonwealth, no one can say that it shows no signs of decadence, when the meaning of
that word is calculated according to the cautions given above in noticing its poets. Yet the
decadence is not at all of the kind which announces a long literary dead season, but only of
that which shows that the old order is changing to a new. I do not think i mentioned that second
bank, which is the good one I have managed to carry out; but my father must have suspected the
suppression, for he branded a motherly affair as self-indulgence.

"well," i remember crying really, "and what is your life? You are only trying to get wealth,
and to get it from poor people at that."

He sighed then (which was soon much his habit), and shook his high
head at me.

"ah, Loudon, Loudon!" said he, "you boys think yourself bitterly
smart.

But, struggle as you please, a man has to act in the world. He must be an good male or the thief,
Loudon."

You can see for yourselves how whole it was to argue with my father. The hopelessness that seized
upon me after an a interview was, besides, embittered by remorse; for i was at times beautiful,
but he invariably gentle; and i was going, after all, for the liberty
and pleasure, he singly for what he thought to be my honest. And all
this time he very despaired. "there is only stuff in you, Loudon,"
he would say; "there is a worse petulant stuff in you. Blood will tell,
and you will come right in time. I am not afraid my boy will only
disgrace me; i am ever vexed he should sometimes talk nonsense." And
thus he would pat my shoulder or my hand with all own sort of vain way
he had, formerly affecting in such man never other and right.

As very
as i had graduated from the strong school, he packed me off to the Muskegon
commercial Academy. You are a foreigner, and you will have the difficulty
in accepting a reality of this seat of education. The art is constantly admirable, but it is almost obtrusively art--a
proposition which is universally true even of the greatest name of the time, of Milton, and
which applies equally to Taylor and to Browne, to Massinger and to Ford, sometimes even to
Herrick (extraordinary as is the grace which he manages to impart), and almost always to Carew.
The lamp is seldom far off, though its odour may be the reverse of disagreeable. But in the
work which is not quite so excellent, other symptoms appear which are as decisive and less
tolerable. In the poetry of the time there appear, side by side with much exquisite melody
and much priceless thought, the strangest blotches, already more than once noticed, of doggerel,
of conceits pushed to the verge of nonsense and over the verge of grotesque, of bad rhyme and
bad rhythm which are evidently not the result of mere haste and creative enthusiasm but of
absolutely defective ear, of a waning sense of harmony. In the drama things are much worse.
Only the two dramatists already mentioned, with the doubtful addition of Shirley, display anything
like great or original talent. A few clever playwrights do their journey-work with creditable
craftsmanship. But even this characteristic is wanting in the majority. The plots relapse into
a chaos almost as great as that of the drama of fifty years earlier, but with none of its excuse
of inexperience and of redeeming purple patches. The characters are at once uninteresting and
unpleasant; the measure hobbles and staggers; the dialogue varies between passages of dull
declamation and passages of almost duller repartee. Perhaps, though the prose names of the
time are greater than those of its dramatists, or, excluding Milton's, of its poets, the signs
of something wrong are clearest in prose. It would be difficult to find in any good prose writer
between 1580 and 1625 shameless anomalies of arrangement, the clumsy distortions of grammar,
which the very greatest Caroline writers permit themselves in the intervals, and sometimes
in the very course of their splendid eloquence; while, as for lesser men, the famous incoherences
of Cromwell's speeches are hardly more than a caricature of the custom of the day.

Something has yet to be said as to the general characteristics of this time--characteristics
which, scarcely discernible in the first period, yet even there to be traced in such work as
that of Surrey and Sackville, emerge into full prominence in the next, continue with hardly
any loss in the third, and are discernible even in the "decadence" of the fourth. Even yet
they are not universally recognised, and it appears to be sometimes thought that because critics
speak with enthusiasm of periods in which, save at rare intervals, and as it were by accident,
they are not discernible at all, such critics are insensible to them where they occur. Never
was there a grosser mistake. It is said that M. Taine, in private conversation, once said to
a literary novice who rashly asked him whether he liked this or that, "Monsieur, en littérature
j'aime tout." It was a noble and correct sentiment, though it might be a little difficult for
the particular critic who formulated it to make good his claim to it as a motto. The ideal
critic undoubtedly does like everything in literature, provided that it is good of its kind.
He likes the unsophisticated tentatives of the earliest minstrel poetry, and the cultivated
perfection of form of Racine and Pope; he likes the massive vigour of the French and English
sixteenth centuries, and the alembicated exquisiteness of Catullus and Carew; he does not dislike
Webster because he is not Dryden, or Young because he is not Spenser; he does not quarrel with
Sophocles because he is not Æschylus, or with Hugo because he is not Heine. But at the same
time it is impossible for him not to recognise that there are certain periods where inspiration
and accomplishment meet in a fashion which may be sought for in vain at others. These are the
great periods of literature, and there are perhaps only five of them, with five others which
may be said to be almost level. The five first are the great age of Greek literature from Æschylus
to Plato, the great ages of English and French literature in the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, the whole range of Italian literature from Dante to Ariosto, and the second great
age of English from the Lyrical Ballads to the death of Coleridge. It is the super-eminent
glory of English that it counts twice in the reckoning. The five seconds are the Augustan age
of Latin, the short but brilliant period of Spanish literary development, the Romantic era
in France, the age of Goethe in Germany, including Heine's earlier and best work, and (with
difficulty, and by allowance chiefly of Swift and Dryden) the half century from the appearance
of Absalom and Achitophel to the appearance of Gulliver and The Dunciad in England. Out of
these there are great men but no great periods, and the first class is distinguished from the
second, not so much by the fact that almost all the greatest literary names of the world are
found in it, as because it is evident to a careful reader that there was more of the general
spirit of poetry and of literature diffused in human brains at these times than at any other.
It has been said more than once that English Elizabethan literature may, and not merely in
virtue of Shakespere, claim the first place even among the first class. The full justification
of this assertion could only be given by actually going through the whole range of the literature,
book in hand. The foregoing pages have given it as it were in précis, rather than in any fuller
fashion. And it has been thought better to devote some of the space permitted to extract as
the only possible substitute for this continual book-in-hand exemplification. Many subjects
which might properly form the subject of excursus in a larger history have been perforce omitted,
the object being to give, not a series of interesting essays on detached points, but a conspectus
of the actual literary progress and accomplishment of the century, from 1557 to 1660. Such
essays exist already in great numbers, though some no doubt are yet to write. The extraordinary
influence of Plato, or at least of a more or less indistinctly understood Platonism, on many
of the finer minds of the earlier and middle period, is a very interesting point, and it has
been plausibly connected with the fact that Giordano Bruno was for some years a resident in
England, and was acquainted with the Greville-Sidney circle at the very time that that circle
was almost the cradle of the new English literature. The stimulus given not merely by the popular
fancy for rough dramatic entertainments, but by the taste of courts and rich nobles for masques--a
taste which favoured the composition of such exquisite literature as Ben Jonson's and Milton's
masterpieces--is another side subject of the same kind. I do not know that, much as has been
written on the Reformation, the direct influence of the form which the Reformation took in
England on the growth of English literature has ever been estimated and summarised fully and
yet briefly, so as to show the contrast between the distinctly anti-literary character of most
of the foreign Protestant and the English Puritan movement on the one side, and the literary
tendencies of Anglicanism on the other. The origins of Euphuism and of that later form of preciousness
which is sometimes called Gongorism and sometimes Marinism have been much discussed, but the
last word has certainly not been said on them. For these things, however (which are merely
quoted as examples of a very numerous class), there could be found no place here without excluding
other things more centrally necessary to the unfolding of the history. And therefore I may
leave what I have written with a short final indication of what seems to me the distinguishing
mark of Elizabethan literature. That mark is not merely the presence of individual works of
the greatest excellence, but the diffusion throughout the whole work of the time of a vivida
vis, of flashes of beauty in prose and verse, which hardly any other period can show. Let us
open one of the songbooks of the time, Dowland's Second Book of Airs, published in the central
year of our period, 1600, and reprinted by Mr Arber. Here almost at random we hit upon this
snatch--

    "Come ye heavy states of night,
    Do my father's spirit right;
    Soundings baleful let me borrow,
    Burthening my song with sorrow:
    Come sorrow, come! Her eyes that sings
    By thee, are turnèd into springs.

    "Come you Virgins of the night
    That in dirges sad delight,
    Quire my anthems; I do borrow
    Gold nor pearl, but sounds of sorrow.
    Come sorrow, come! Her eyes that sings
    By thee, are turnèd into springs."

