About noon a circular bed of sand, some four inches in height and four feet in diameter, was
made. Five grains of corn and five pine boughs were laid thereon; four of the grains of corn
and four of the boughs were placed to the cardinal points. The fifth and center branch of pine
covered most of the circle, its tips pointing to the east. The fifth grain of corn was dropped
in the center of the sand bed. (See Pl. CXVII, 1). Four of these pine boughs were cut from
the east, south, north, and west sides of one tree. The fifth bough may be taken from any part
of the tree. Of the five grains of corn one must be white, one yellow, and one blue, and the
other two grains may be of either of these three colors. On this particular occasion there
were two blue, two white, and one yellow. These grains were, after the ceremony, dried and
ground by the theurgist and placed among his medicines. The boughs and sand absorbed the disease
from the invalid, and at the close of the ceremony they were carried to the north and deposited
in a shady spot that the sun might not touch and develop the latent disease that had been absorbed
by them. The boughs and sand were never afterward to be touched. An Apache basket containing
yucca root and water was placed in front of the circle. (See Pl. CXVII 2.) There was a second
basket south of it which contained water and a quantity of pine needles sufficiently thick
to form a dry surface, and on the top a number of valuable necklaces of coral, turquois, and
silver. A square was formed on the edge of the basket with four turkey wands. (See Pl. CXVII
3.) The song-priest with rattle led the choir. The invalid sat to the northeast of the circle;
a breechcloth was his only apparel. During the chanting an attendant made suds from the yucca.
The basket remained in position; the man stooped over it facing north; his position allowed
the sunbeams which came through the fire opening to fall upon the suds. When the basket was
a mass of white froth the attendant washed the suds from his hands by pouring a gourd of water
over them, after which the song-priest came forward and with corn pollen drew a cross over
the suds, which stood firm like the beaten whites of eggs, the arms of the cross pointing to
the cardinal points. A circle of the pollen was then made around the edge of the suds. The
attendant who prepared the suds touched his right hand to the four points of the pollen lines
and in the center and placed it upon the head of the patient who first made a circle embracing
the sand and basket and then knelt upon the boughs in the center of the sand.(3) A handful
of the suds was afterwards put upon his head. The basket was placed near him and he bathed
his head thoroughly; the maker of the suds afterwards assisted him in bathing the entire body
with the suds, and pieces of yucca were rubbed upon the body. The chant continued through the
ceremony and closed just as the remainder of the suds was emptied by the attendant over the
invalid’s head. The song priest collected the four wands from the second basket and an attendant
gathered the necklaces. A second attendant placed the basket before the invalid who was now
sitting in the center of the circle and the first attendant assisted him in bathing the entire
body with this mixture; the body was quite covered with the pine needles which had become very
soft from soaking. The invalid then returned to his former position at the left of the song
priest, and the pine needles and yucca, together with the sands, were carried out and deposited
at the base of a piñon tree. The place was a point of land jutting forth into a reef-strewn tideway.
The vegetation came down close to the strip of beach, but there was
comparatively little underwood, and the grass, growing up to the very
roots were of the trees, give to the close glade an appearance almost
parklike.

There was no north in vision, not even the thin, blue coil of a smoking hearth to proclaim the
vicinity of man. A perplexity, and the son devoured engineering with his eyes, his head bent forward
and his berm held tensely.
 Being asked why he cut his shorter than the rest, he replied,
"All men are not the same size." The sticks were sharpened at one end and cut squarely off
at the other. In order that all of the sticks should be of the same length they were measured
by placing the three first fingers across the stick. The fifth man sat immediately to the right
of the song priest, who took a hollow reed from the large medicine bag from which he cut four
pieces, each piece the breadth of his three fingers. The reed, which was cut with a stone knife,
was afterwards rubbed with native tobacco. Six sticks of each of the piles had their square
ends beveled; these represented females. The attendant on the east side of the rug having completed
his twelve sticks, painted them white with kaolin finely ground and mixed with water. The flat
ends of the sticks were colored black; the beveled parts were painted blue; around the lower
end of the blue was a bit of yellow which represented the jaw painted with corn pollen. Three
black dots were painted upon the blue for the eyes and mouth; the ground color was laid on
with the finger; the other decorations were made with yucca brushes. The man on the south side
colored his sticks blue. The tops of six sticks were painted yellow, and six were black. The
black ends were those having the beveled spots. These spots were blue with a chin of yellow;
they also had the three black dots for eyes and mouth. The man to the west colored his sticks
yellow with the flat ends black; the beveled spots of six of them were blue with a yellow chin
and three black dots for eyes and mouth. The sticks to the north were colored black; six of
them had the beveled parts colored blue with a yellow jaw, and three spots for eyes and mouth;
the six sticks that were not beveled had their flat tops painted blue. All these sticks were
laid on the rug with their flat ends outward. The attendants who prepared the reeds, each reed
being colored for a cardinal point, filled them with balls of humming-bird feathers and tobacco
and lighted them with a crystal, when they were touched with corn pollen. The reed for the
east was white, the one for the south blue, that for the west yellow, and that for the north
black. Each reed was placed at its appropriate point in line with the sticks. (See Pl. CXVIII.)
The theurgist then advanced, carrying a basket half filled with corn meal. This he placed in
the center of the rug; when kneeling on the edge of the rug and beginning with the white sticks,
he placed first the white reed in the east side of the basket, and passing from this point
around to the right he placed the six offerings to the gods, then the six to the goddesses.
Next taking the blue tube at the south end he placed it to the left of the white line of sticks,
leaving sufficient space for the sticks between it and the white tube; all the blue ones were
placed in position corresponding to the white. The yellow followed next, and then the black.
All were placed with their flat ends or heads pointed to the rim of the basket. The theurgist
deposited the basket in the niche on a pile of turkey feather wands, the wands resting upon
a large medicine bag. The sticks and scraps left after making the tubes were carried out and
deposited without ceremony.

FIFTH CEREMONY.

