"Na, na, sirs," exclaimed Mrs. Mailsetter; "haud awa—bide aff, I tell you; this is nane o'
your fourpenny cuts that we might make up the value to the post-office amang ourselves if ony
mischance befell it;—the postage is five-and-twenty shillings—and here's an order frae the
Secretary to forward it to the young gentleman by express, if he's no at hame. Na, na, sirs,
bide aff;—this maunna be roughly guided."

"But just let's look at the outside o't, woman."

Nothing could be gathered from the outside, except remarks on the various properties which
philosophers ascribe to matter,—length, breadth, depth, and weight, The packet was composed
of strong thick paper, imperviable by the curious eyes of the gossips, though they stared as
if they would burst from their sockets. The seal was a deep and well-cut impression of arms,
which defied all tampering.

"Od, lass," said Mrs. Shortcake, weighing it in her hand, and wishing, doubtless, that the
too, too solid wax would melt and dissolve itself, "I wad like to ken what's in the inside
o' this, for that Lovel dings a' that ever set foot on the plainstanes o' Fairport—naebody
kens what to make o' him." Mrs. Heukbane and Mrs. Shortcake

"Weel, weel, leddies," said the postmistress, "we'se sit down and crack about it.—Baby, bring
ben the tea-water—Muckle obliged to ye for your cookies, Mrs. Shortcake—and we'll steek the
shop, and cry ben Baby, and take a hand at the cartes till the gudeman comes hame—and then
we'll try your braw veal sweetbread that ye were so kind as send me, Mrs. Heukbane."

"But winna ye first send awa Mr. Lovel's letter?" said Mrs. Heukbane.

"Troth I kenna wha to send wi't till the gudeman comes hame, for auld Caxon tell'd me that
Mr. Lovel stays a' the day at Monkbarns—he's in a high fever, wi' pu'ing the laird and Sir
Arthur out o' the sea."

"Silly auld doited carles!" said Mrs. Shortcake; "what gar'd them gang to the douking in a
night like yestreen!"

"I was gi'en to understand it was auld Edie that saved them," said Mrs. Heukbane—"Edie Ochiltree,
the Blue-Gown, ye ken; and that he pu'd the hale three out of the auld fish-pound, for Monkbarns
had threepit on them to gang in till't to see the wark o' the monks lang syne."

"Hout, lass, nonsense!" answered the postmistress; "I'll tell ye, a' about it, as Caxon tell'd
it to me. Ye see, Sir Arthur and Miss Wardour, and Mr. Lovel, suld hae dined at Monkbarns"—

"But, Mrs. Mailsetter," again interrupted Mrs. Heukbane, "will ye no be for sending awa this
letter by express?—there's our powny and our callant hae gane express for the office or now,
and the powny hasna gane abune thirty mile the day;—Jock was sorting him up as I came ower by."

"Why, Mrs. Heukbane," said the woman of letters, pursing up her mouth, "ye ken my gudeman likes
to ride the expresses himsell—we maun gie our ain fish-guts to our ain sea-maws—it's a red
half-guinea to him every time he munts his mear; and I dare say he'll be in sune—or I dare
to say, it's the same thing whether the gentleman gets the express this night or early next
morning."

"Only that Mr. Lovel will be in town before the express gaes aff," said Mrs. Heukbane; "and
where are ye then, lass? But ye ken yere ain ways best."

"Weel, weel, Mrs. Heukbane," answered Mrs. Mailsetter, a little out of humour, and even out
of countenance, "I am sure I am never against being neighbour-like, and living and letting
live, as they say; and since I hae been sic a fule as to show you the post-office order—ou,
nae doubt, it maun be obeyed. But I'll no need your callant, mony thanks to ye—I'll send little
Davie on your powny, and that will be just five-and- threepence to ilka ane o' us, ye ken."

"Davie! the Lord help ye, the bairn's no ten year auld; and, to be plain wi' ye, our powny
reists a bit, and it's dooms sweer to the road, and naebody can manage him but our Jock."

"I'm sorry for that," answered the postmistress, gravely; "it's like we maun wait then till
the gudeman comes hame, after a'—for I wadna like to be responsible in trusting the letter
to sic a callant as Jock—our Davie belangs in a manner to the office."

"Aweel, aweel, Mrs. Mailsetter, I see what ye wad be at—but an ye like to risk the bairn, I'll
risk the beast."

Orders were accordingly given. The unwilling pony was brought out of his bed of straw, and
again equipped for service—Davie (a leathern post-bag strapped across his shoulders) was perched
upon the saddle, with a tear in his eye, and a switch in his hand. Jock good-naturedly led
the animal out of town, and, by the crack of his whip, and the whoop and halloo of his too
well-known voice, compelled it to take the road towards Monkbarns.

Meanwhile the gossips, like the sibyls after consulting their leaves, arranged and combined
the information of the evening, which flew next morning through a hundred channels, and in
a hundred varieties, through the world of Fairport. Many, strange, and inconsistent, were the
rumours to which their communications and conjectures gave rise. Some said Tennant and Co.
were broken, and that all their bills had come back protested—others that they had got a great
contract from Government, and letters from the principal merchants at Glasgow, desiring to
have shares upon a premium. One report stated, that Lieutenant Taffril had acknowledged a private
marriage with Jenny Caxon—another, that he had sent her a letter upbraiding her with the lowness
of her birth and education, and bidding her an eternal adieu. It was generally rumoured that
Sir Arthur Wardour's affairs had fallen into irretrievable confusion, and this report was only
doubted by the wise, because it was traced to Mrs. Mailsetter's shop,—a source more famous
for the circulation of news than for their accuracy. But all agreed that a packet from the
Secretary of State's office, had arrived, directed for Mr. Lovel, and that it had been forwarded
by an orderly dragoon, despatched from the head-quarters at Edinburgh, who had galloped through
Fairport without stopping, except just to inquire the way to Monkbarns. The reason of such
an extraordinary mission to a very peaceful and retired individual, was variously explained.
Some said Lovel was an emigrant noble, summoned to head an insurrection that had broken out
in La Vende'e—others that he was a spy—others that he was a general officer, who was visiting
the coast privately—others that he was a prince of the blood, who was travelling incognito.

Meanwhile the progress of the packet which occasioned so much speculation, towards its destined
owner at Monkbarns, had been perilous and interrupted. The bearer, Davie Mailsetter, as little
resembling a bold dragoon as could well be imagined, was carried onwards towards Monkbarns
by the pony, so long as the animal had in his recollection the crack of his usual instrument
of chastisement, and the shout of the butcher's boy. But feeling how Davie, whose short legs
were unequal to maintain his balance, swung to and fro upon his back, the pony began to disdain
furthur compliance with the intimations he had received. First, then, he slackened his pace
to a walk This was no point of quarrel between him and his rider, who had been considerably
discomposed by the rapidity of his former motion, and who now took the opportunity of his abated
pace to gnaw a piece of gingerbread, which had been thrust into his hand by his mother in order
to reconcile this youthful emissary of the post-office to the discharge of his duty. By and
by, the crafty pony availed himself of this surcease of discipline to twitch the rein out of
Davies hands, and applied himself to browse on the grass by the side of the lane. Sorely astounded
by these symptoms of self-willed rebellion, and afraid alike to sit or to fall, poor Davie
lifted up his voice and wept aloud. The pony, hearing this pudder over his head, began apparently
to think it would be best both for himself and Davie to return from whence they came, and accordingly
commenced a retrograde movement towards Fairport. But, as all retreats are apt to end in utter
rout, so the steed, alarmed by the boy's cries, and by the flapping of the reins, which dangled
about his forefeet—finding also his nose turned homeward, began to set off at a rate which,
if Davie kept the saddle (a matter extremely dubious), would soon have presented him at Heukbane's
stable-door,—when, at a turn of the road, an intervening auxiliary, in the shape of old Edie
Ochiltree, caught hold of the rein, and stopped his farther proceeding. "Wha's aught ye, callant?
whaten a gate's that to ride?"

"I canna help it!" blubbered the express; "they ca' me little Davie."

"And where are ye gaun?"

"I'm gaun to Monkbarns wi' a letter."

"Stirra, this is no the road to Monkbarns."

But Davie could oinly answer the expostulation with sighs and tears.

Old Edie was easily moved to compassion where childhood was in the case.- -"I wasna gaun that
gate," he thought, "but it's the best o' my way o' life that I canna be weel out o' my road.
They'll gie me quarters at Monkbarns readily eneugh, and I'll e'en hirple awa there wi' the
wean, for it will knock its hams out, puir thing, if there's no somebody to guide the pony.—Sae
ye hae a letter, hinney? will ye let me see't?"

"I'm no gaun to let naebody see the letter," sobbed the boy, "till I gie't to Mr. Lovel, for
I am a faithfu' servant o' the office—if it werena for the powny."

"Very right, my little man," said Ochiltree, turning the reluctant pony's head towards Monkbarns;
"but we'll guide him atween us, if he's no a' the sweerer."

Upon the very height of Kinprunes, to which Monkbarns had invited Lovel after their dinner,
the Antiquary, again reconciled to the once degraded spot, was expatiating upon the topics
the scenery afforded for a description of Agricola's camp at the dawn of morning, when his
eye was caught by the appearance of the mendicant and his protegee. "What the devil!—here comes
Old Edie, bag and baggage, I think."

The beggar explained his errand, and Davie, who insisted upon a literal execution of his commission
by going on to Monkbarns, was with difficulty prevailed upon to surrender the packet to its
proper owner, although he met him a mile nearer than the place he bad been directed to. "But
my minnie said, I maun be sure to get twenty shillings and five shillings for the postage,
and ten shillings and sixpence for the express—there's the paper."

"Let me see—let me see," said Oldbuck, putting on his spectacles, and examining the crumpled
copy of regulations to which Davie appealed. "Express, per man and horse, one day, not to exceed
ten shillings and sixpence. One day? why, it's not an hour—Man and horse? why, 'tis a monkey
on a starved cat!"

"Father wad hae come himsell," said Davie, "on the muckle red mear, an ye wad hae bidden till
the morn's night."

"Four-and-twenty hours after the regular date of delivery! You little cockatrice egg, do you
understand the art of imposition so early?"

"Hout Monkbarns! dinna set your wit against a bairn," said the beggar; "mind the butcher risked
his beast, and the wife her wean, and I am sure ten and sixpence isna ower muckle. Ye didna
gang sae near wi' Johnnie Howie, when"—

Lovel, who, sitting on the supposed Praetorium, had glanced over the contents of the packet,
now put an end to the altercation by paying Davies demand; and then turning to Mr. Oldbuck,
with a look of much agitation, he excused himself from returning with him to Monkbarns' that
evening.—"I must instantly go to Fairport, and perhaps leave it on a moment's notice;—your
kindness, Mr. Oldbuck, I can never forget."

"No bad news, I hope?" said the Antiquary.

"Of a very chequered complexion," answered his friend. "Farewell—in good or bad fortune I will
not forget your regard."

"Nay, nay—stop a moment. If—if—" (making an effort)—"if there be any pecuniary inconvenience—I
have fifty—or a hundred guineas at your service—till—till Whitsunday—or indeed as long as you
please."

"I am much obliged, Mr. Oldbuck, but I am amply provided," said his mysterious young friend.
"Excuse me—I really cannot sustain further conversation at present. I will write or see you,
before I leave Fairport—that is, if I find myself obliged to go."

So saying, he shook the Antiquary's hand warmly, turned from him, and walked rapidly towards
the town, "staying no longer question."

"Very extraordinary indeed!" said Oldbuck;—"but there's something about this lad I can never
fathom; and yet I cannot for my heart think ill of him neither. I must go home and take off
the fire in the Green Room, for none of my womankind will venture into it after twilight."

"And how am I to win hame?" blubbered the disconsolate express.

"It's a fine night," said the Blue-Gown, looking up to the skies; "I had as gude gang back
to the town, and take care o' the wean."

"Do so, do so, Edie;" and rummaging for some time in his huge waistcoat pocket till he found
the object of his search, the Antiquary added, "there's sixpence to ye to buy sneeshin."

CHAPTER SIXTEENTH.

     "I am bewitched with the rogue's company. If the rascal has not
     given me medicines to make me love him, I'll be hanged; it could
     not be else. I have drunk medicines."
                            Second Part of Henry IV.

Regular for a fortnight were the inquiries of the Antiquary at the veteran Caxon, whether he
had heard what Mr. Lovel was about; and as regular were Caxon's answers, "that the town could
learn naething about him whatever, except that he had received anither muckle letter or twa
frae the south, and that he was never seen on the plainstanes at a'."

"How does he live, Caxon?"

"Ou, Mrs. Hadoway just dresses him a beefsteak or a muttonchop, or makes him some Friar's chicken,
or just what she likes hersell, and he eats it in the little red parlour off his bedroom. She
canna get him to say that he likes ae thing better than anither; and she makes him tea in a
morning, and he settles honourably wi' her every week."

"But does he never stir abroad?"

"He has clean gi'en up walking, and he sits a' day in his room reading or writing; a hantle
letters he has written, but he wadna put them into our post-house, though Mrs. Hadoway offered
to carry them hersell, but sent them a' under ae cover to the sheriff; and it's Mrs. Mailsetter's
belief, that the sheriff sent his groom to put them into the post-office at Tannonburgh; it's
my puir thought, that he jaloused their looking into his letters at Fairport; and weel had
he need, for my puir daughter Jenny"—

"Tut, don't plague me with your womankind, Caxon. About this poor young lad.—Does he write
nothing but letters?"

"Ou, ay—hale sheets o' other things, Mrs. Hadoway says. She wishes muckle he could be gotten
to take a walk; she thinks he's but looking very puirly, and his appetite's clean gane; but
he'll no hear o' ganging ower the door-stane—him that used to walk sae muckle too."

"That's wrong—I have a guess what he's busy about; but he must not work too hard neither. I'll
go and see him this very day—he's deep, doubtless, in the Caledoniad."

Having formed this manful resolution, Mr. Oldbuck equipped himself for the expedition with
his thick walking-shoes and gold-headed cane, muttering the while the words of Falstaff which
we have chosen for the motto of this CHAPTER; for the Antiquary was himself rather surprised
at the degree of attachment which he could not but acknowledge be entertained for this stranger.
The riddle was notwithstanding easily solved. Lovel had many attractive qualities, but he won
our Antiquary's heart by being on most occasions an excellent listener.

A walk to Fairport had become somewhat of an adventure with Mr. Oldbuck, and one which he did
not often care to undertake. He hated greetings in the market-place; and there were generally
loiterers in the streets to persecute him, either about the news of the day, or about some
petty pieces of business. So, on this occasion, he had no sooner entered the streets of Fairport,
than it was "Good-morrow, Mr. Oldbuck—a sight o' you's gude, for sair een: what d'ye think
of the news in the Sun the day?—they say the great attempt will be made in a fortnight."

"I wish to the Lord it were made and over, that I might hear no more about it."

"Monkbarns, your honour," said the nursery and seedsman, "I hope the plants gied satisfaction?—and
if ye wanted ony flower-roots fresh frae Holland, or" (this in a lower key) "an anker or twa
o' Cologne gin, ane o' our brigs cam in yestreen."

"Thank ye, thank ye,—no occasion at present, Mr. Crabtree," said the Antiquary, pushing resolutely
onward.

Through these various entanglements, Monkbarns (to use the phrase by which he was distinguished
in the country) made his way at length to Mrs. Hadoway's. This good woman was the widow of
a late clergyman at Fairport, who had been reduced by her husband's untimely death, to that
state of straitened and embarrassed circumstances in which the widows of the Scotch clergy
are too often found. The tenement which she occupied, and the furniture of which she was possessed,
gave her the means of letting a part of her house; and as Lovel had been a quiet, regular,
and profitable lodger, and had qualified the necessary intercourse which they had together
with a great deal of gentleness and courtesy, Mrs. Hadoway, not, perhaps, much used to such
kindly treatment, had become greatly attached to her lodger, and was profuse in every sort
of personal attention which circumstances permitted her to render him. To cook a dish somewhat
better than ordinary for "the poor young gentleman's dinner;" to exert her interest with those
who remembered her husband, or loved her for her own sake and his, in order to procure scarce
vegetables, or something which her simplicity supposed might tempt her lodger's appetite, was
a labour in which she delighted, although she anxiously concealed it from the person who was
its object. She did not adopt this secrecy of benevolence to avoid the laugh of those who might
suppose that an oval face and dark eyes, with a clear brown complexion, though belonging to
a woman of five-and-forty, and enclosed within a widow's close-drawn pinners, might possibly
still aim at making conquests; for, to say truth, such a ridiculous suspicion having never
entered into her own head, she could not anticipate its having birth in that of any one else.
But she concealed her attentions solely out of delicacy to her guest, whose power of repaying
them she doubted as much as she believed in his inclination to do so, and in his being likely
to feel extreme pain at leaving any of her civilities unrequited. She now opened the door to
Mr. Oldbuck, and her surprise at seeing him brought tears into her eyes, which she could hardly
restrain.

"I am glad to see you, sir—I am very glad to see you. My poor gentleman is, I am afraid, very
unwell; and oh, Mr. Oldbuck, he'll see neither doctor, nor minister, nor writer! And think
what it would be, if, as my poor Mr. Hadoway used to say, a man was to die without advice of
the three learned faculties!"

"Greatly better than with them," grumbled the cynical Antiquary. "I tell you, Mrs. Hadoway,
the clergy live by our sins, the medical faculty by our diseases, and the law gentry by our
misfortunes."

"O fie, Monkbarns!—to hear the like o' that frae you!—But yell walk up and see the poor young
lad?—Hegh sirs? sae young and weel-favoured—and day by day he has eat less and less, and now
he hardly touches onything, only just pits a bit on the plate to make fashion—and his poor
cheek has turned every day thinner and paler, sae that he now really looks as auld as me, that
might be his mother—no that I might be just that neither, but something very near it."

"Why does he not take some exercise?" said Oldbuck.

"I think we have persuaded him to do that, for he has bought a horse from Gibbie Golightly,
the galloping groom. A gude judge o' horse-flesh Gibbie tauld our lass that he was—for he offered
him a beast he thought wad answer him weel eneugh, as he was a bookish man, but Mr. Lovel wadna
look at it, and bought ane might serve the Master o' Morphie—they keep it at the Graeme's Arms,
ower the street;—and he rode out yesterday morning and this morning before breakfast—But winna
ye walk up to his room?"

"Presently, presently. But has he no visitors?"

"O dear, Mr. Oldbuck, not ane; if he wadna receive them when he was weel and sprightly, what
chance is there of onybody in Fairport looking in upon him now?"

"Ay, ay, very true,—I should have been surprised had it been otherwise—Come, show me up stairs,
Mrs. Hadoway, lest I make a blunder, and go where I should not."

The good landlady showed Mr. Oldbuck up her narrow staircase, warning him of every turn, and
lamenting all the while that he was laid under the necessity of mounting up so high. At length
she gently tapped at the door of her guest's parlour. "Come in," said Lovel; and Mrs. Hadoway
ushered in the Laird of Monkbarns.

The little apartment was neat and clean, and decently furnished—ornamented, too, by such relics
of her youthful arts of sempstress-ship as Mrs. Hadoway had retained; but it was close, overheated,
and, as it appeared to Oldbuck, an unwholesome situation for a young person in delicate health,—an
observation which ripened his resolution touching a project that had already occurred to him
in Lovel's behalf. With a writing-table before him, on which lay a quantity of books and papers,
Lovel was seated on a couch, in his night-gown and slippers. Oldbuck was shocked at the change
which had taken place in his personal appearance. His cheek and brow had assumed a ghastly
white, except where a round bright spot of hectic red formed a strong and painful contrast,
totally different from the general cast of hale and hardy complexion which had formerly overspread
and somewhat embrowned his countenance. Oldbuck observed, that the dress he wore belonged to
a deep mourning suit, and a coat of the same colour hung on a chair near to him. As the Antiquary
entered, Lovel arose and came forward to welcome him.

"This is very kind," he said, shaking him by the hand, and thanking him warmly for his visit—"this
is very kind, and has anticipated a visit with which I intended to trouble you. You must know
I have become a horseman lately."

"I understand as much from Mrs. Hadoway—I only hope, my good young friend, you have been fortunate
in a quiet horse. I myself inadvertently bought one from the said Gibbie Golightly, which brute
ran two miles on end with me after a pack of hounds, with which I had no more to do than the
last year's snow; and after affording infinite amusement, I suppose, to the whole hunting field,
he was so good as to deposit me in a dry ditch—I hope yours is a more peaceful beast?"

"I hope, at least, we shall make our excursions on a better plan of mutual understanding."

"That is to say, you think yourself a good horseman?"

"I would not willingly," answered Lovel, "confess myself a very bad one."

"No—all you young fellows think that would be equal to calling yourselves tailors at once—But
have you had experience? for, crede experto, a horse in a passion is no joker."

"Why, I should be sorry to boast myself as a great horseman; but when I acted as aide-de-camp
to Sir——in the cavalry action at—, last year, I saw many better cavaliers than myself dismounted."

"Ah! you have looked in the face of the grisly god of arms then?—you are acquainted with the
frowns of Mars armipotent? That experience fills up the measure of your qualifications for
the epopea! The Britons, however, you will remember, fought in chariots—covinarii is the phrase
of Tacitus;—you recollect the fine description of their dashing among the Roman infantry, although
the historian tells us how ill the rugged face of the ground was calculated for equestrian
combat; and truly, upon the whole, what sort of chariots could be driven in Scotland anywhere
but on turnpike roads, has been to me always matter of amazement. And well now—has the Muse
visited you?—have you got anything to show me?"

"My time," said Lovel, with a glance at his black dress, "has been less pleasantly employed."

"The death of a friend?" said the Antiquary.

"Yes, Mr. Oldbuck—of almost the only friend I could ever boast of possessing."

"Indeed? Well, young man," replied his visitor, in a tone of seriousness very different from
his affected gravity, "be comforted. To have lost a friend by death while your mutual regard
was warm and unchilled, while the tear can drop unembittered by any painful recollection of
coldness or distrust or treachery, is perhaps an escape from a more heavy dispensation. Look
round you—how few do you see grow old in the affections of those with whom their early friendships
were formed! Our sources of common pleasure gradually dry up as we journey on through the vale
of Bacha, and we hew out to ourselves other reservoirs, from which the first companions of
our pilgrimage are excluded;—jealousies, rivalries, envy, intervene to separate others from
our side, until none remain but those who are connected with us rather by habit than predilection,
or who, allied more in blood than in disposition, only keep the old man company in his life,
that they may not be forgotten at his death—

                    Haec data poena diu viventibus.

Ah, Mr. Lovel! if it be your lot to reach the chill, cloudy, and comfortless evening of life,
you will remember the sorrows of your youth as the light shadowy clouds that intercepted for
a moment the beams of the sun when it was rising. But I cram these words into your ears against
the stomach of your sense."

"I am sensible of your kindness," answered the youth; "but the wound that is of recent infliction
must always smart severely, and I should be little comforted under my present calamity—forgive
me for saying so—by the conviction that life had nothing in reserve for me but a train of successive
sorrows. And permit me to add, you, Mr. Oldbuck, have least reason of many men to take so gloomy
a view of life. You have a competent and easy fortune—are generally respected—may, in your
own phrase, vacare musis, indulge yourself in the researches to which your taste addicts you;
you may form your own society without doors—and within you have the affectionate and sedulous
attention of the nearest relatives."

"Why, yes—the womankind, for womankind, are, thanks to my training, very civil and tractable—do
not disturb me in my morning studies—creep across the floor with the stealthy pace of a cat,
when it suits me to take a nap in my easy-chair after dinner or tea. All this is very well;
but I want something to exchange ideas with—something to talk to."

"Then why do you not invite your nephew, Captain M'Intyre, who is mentioned by every one as
a fine spirited young fellow, to become a member of your family?"

"Who?" exclaimed Monkbarns, "my nephew Hector?—the Hotspur of the North? Why, Heaven love you,
I would as soon invite a firebrand into my stackyard. He's an Almanzor, a Chamont—has a Highland
pedigree as long as his claymore, and a claymore as long as the High Street of Fairport, which
he unsheathed upon the surgeon the last time he was at Fairport. I expect him here one of these
days; but I will keep him at staff's end, I promise you. He an inmate of my house! to make
my very chairs and tables tremble at his brawls. No, no—I'll none of Hector M'Intyre. But hark
ye, Lovel;—you are a quiet, gentle-tempered lad; had not you better set up your staff at Monkbarns
for a month or two, since I conclude you do not immediately intend to leave this country?—I
will have a door opened out to the garden—it will cost but a trifle—there is the space for
an old one which was condemned long ago—by which said door you may pass and repass into the
Green Chamber at pleasure, so you will not interfere with the old man, nor he with you. As
for your fare, Mrs. Hadoway tells me you are, as she terms it, very moderate of your mouth,
so you will not quarrel with my humble table. Your washing"—

"Hold, my dear Mr. Oldbuck," interposed Lovel, unable to repress a smile; "and before your
hospitality settles all my accommodations, let me thank you most sincerely for so kind an offer—it
is not at present in my power to accept of it; but very likely, before I bid adieu to Scotland,
I shall find an opportunity to pay you a visit of some length."

Mr. Oldbuck's countenance fell. "Why, I thought I had hit on the very arrangement that would
suit us both,—and who knows what might happen in the long run, and whether we might ever part?
Why, I am master of my acres, man—there is the advantage of being descended from a man of more
sense than pride—they cannot oblige me to transmit my goods chattels, and heritages, any way
but as I please. No string of substitute heirs of entail, as empty and unsubstantial as the
morsels of paper strung to the train of a boy's kite, to cumber my flights of inclination,
and my humours of predilection. Well,—I see you won't be tempted at present—but Caledonia goes
on I hope?"

"O certainly," said Lovel; "I cannot think of relinquishing a plan so hopeful."

"It is indeed," said the Antiquary, looking gravely upward,—for, though shrewd and acute enough
in estimating the variety of plans formed by others, he had a very natural, though rather disproportioned
good opinion of the importance of those which originated with himself—"it is indeed one of
those undertakings which, if achieved with spirit equal to that which dictates its conception,
may redeem from the charge of frivolity the literature of the present generation."

Here he was interrupted by a knock at the room door, which introduced a letter for Mr. Lovel.
The servant waited, Mrs. Hadoway said, for an answer. "You are concerned in this matter, Mr.
Oldbuck," said Lovel, after glancing over the billet, and handing it to the Antiquary as he spoke.

It was a letter from Sir Arthur Wardour, couched in extremely civil language, regetting that
a fit of the gout had prevented his hitherto showing Mr. Lovel the attentions to which his
conduct during a late perilous occasion had so well entitled him—apologizing for not paying
his respects in person, but hoping Mr. Lovel would dispense with that ceremony, and be a member
of a small party which proposed to visit the ruins of Saint Ruth's priory on the following
day, and afterwards to dine and spend the evening at Knockwinnock Castle. Sir Arthur concluded
with saying, that he had sent to request the Monkbarns family to join the party of pleasure
which he thus proposed. The place of rendezvous was fixed at a turnpike-gate, which was about
an equal distance from all the points from which the company were to assemble.

"What shall we do?" said Lovel, looking at the Antiquary, but pretty certain of the part he
would take.

"Go, man—we'll go, by all means. Let me see—it will cost a post-chaise though, which will hold
you and me, and Mary M'Intyre, very well—and the other womankind may go to the manse—and you
can come out in the chaise to Monkbarns, as I will take it for the day."

"Why, I rather think I had better ride."

"True, true, I forgot your Bucephalus. You are a foolish lad, by the by, for purchasing the
brute outright; you should stick to eighteenpence a side, if you will trust any creature's
legs in preference to your own."

"Why, as the horse's have the advantage of moving considerably faster, and are, besides, two
pair to one, I own I incline"—

"Enough said—enough said—do as you please. Well then, I'll bring either Grizel or the minister,
for I love to have my full pennyworth out of post-horses—and we meet at Tirlingen turnpike
on Friday, at twelve o'clock precisely. "—And with this ageement the friends separated.

CHAPTER SEVENTEENTH.

          Of seats they tell, where priests, 'mid tapers dim,
          Breathed the warm prayer, or tuned the midnight hymn
               To scenes like these the fainting soul retired;
               Revenge and Anger in these cells expired:
             By Pity soothed, Remorse lost half her fears,
             And softened Pride dropped penitential tears.
                           Crabbe's Borough.

The morning of Friday was as serene and beautiful as if no pleasure party had been intended;
and that is a rare event, whether in novel-writing or real life. Lovel, who felt the genial
influence of the weather, and rejoiced at the prospect of once more meeting with Miss Wardour,
trotted forward to the place of rendezvous with better spirits than he had for some time enjoyed.
His prospects seemed in many respects to open and brighten before him—and hope, although breaking
like the morning sun through clouds and showers, appeared now about to illuminate the path
before him. He was, as might have been expected from this state of spirits, first at the place
of meeting,—and, as might also have been anticipated, his looks were so intently directed towards
the road from Knockwinnock Castles that he was only apprized of the arrival of the Monkbarns
division by the gee-hupping of the postilion, as the post-chaise lumbered up behind him. In
this vehicle were pent up, first, the stately figure of Mr. Oldbuck himself; secondly, the
scarce less portly person of the Reverend Mr. Blattergowl, minister of Trotcosey, the parish
in which Monkbarns and Knockwinnock were both situated. The reverend gentleman was equipped
in a buzz wig, upon the top of which was an equilateral cocked hat. This was the paragon of
the three yet remaining wigs of the parish, which differed, as Monkbarns used to remark, like
the three degrees of comparison—Sir Arthur's ramilies being the positive, his own bob-wig the
comparative, and the overwhelming grizzle of the worthy clergyman figuring as the superlative.
The superintendent of these antique garnitures, deeming, or affecting to deem, that he could
not well be absent on an occasion which assembled all three together, had seated himself on
the board behind the carriage, "just to be in the way in case they wanted a touch before the
gentlemen sat down to dinner." Between the two massive figures of Monkbarns and the clergyman
was stuck, by way of bodkin, the slim form of Mary M'Intyre, her aunt having preferred a visit
to the manse, and a social chat with Miss Beckie Blattergowl, to investigating the ruins of
the priory of Saint Ruth.

As greetings passed between the members of the Monkbarns party and Mr. Lovel, the Baronet's
carriage, an open barouche, swept onward to the place of appointment, making, with its smoking
bays, smart drivers, arms, blazoned panels, and a brace of outriders, a strong contrast with
the battered vehicle and broken-winded hacks which had brought thither the Antiquary and his
followers. The principal seat of the carriage was occupied by Sir Arthur and his daughter.
At the first glance which passed betwixt Miss Wardour and Lovel, her colour rose considerably;—but
she had apparently made up her mind to receive him as a friend, and only as such, and there
was equal composure and courtesy in the mode of her reply to his fluttered salutation. Sir
Arthur halted the barouche to shake his preserver kindly by the hand, and intimate the pleasure
he had on this opportunity of returning him his personal thanks; then mentioned to him, in
a tone of slight introduction, "Mr. Dousterswivel, Mr. Lovel."

Lovel took the necessary notice of the German adept, who occupied the front seat of the carriage,
which is usually conferred upon dependants or inferiors. The ready grin and supple inclination
with which his salutation, though slight, was answered by the foreigner, increased the internal
dislike which Lovel had already conceived towards him; and it was plain, from the lower of
the Antiquary's shaggy eye-brow, that he too looked with displeasure on this addition to the
company. Little more than distant greeting passed among the members of the party, until, having
rolled on for about three miles beyond the place at which they met, the carriages at length
stopped at the sign of the Four Horse-shoes, a small hedge inn, where Caxon humbly opened the
door, and let down the step of the hack-chaise, while the inmates of the barouche were, by
their more courtly attendants, assisted to leave their equipage.

Here renewed greetings passed: the young ladies shook hands; and Oldbuck, completely in his
element, placed himself as guide and cicerone at the head of the party, who were now to advance
on foot towards the object of their curiosity. He took care to detain Lovel close beside him
as the best listener of the party, and occasionally glanced a word of explanation and instruction
to Miss Wardour and Mary M'Intyre, who followed next in order. The Baronet and the clergyman
he rather avoided, as he was aware both of them conceived they understood such matters as well,
or better than he did; and Dousterswivel, besides that he looked on him as a charlatan, was
so nearly connected with his apprehended loss in the stock of the mining company, that he could
not abide the sight of him. These two latter satellites, therefore, attended upon the orb of
Sir Arthur, to whom, moreover, as the most important person of the society, they were naturally
induced to attach themselves.

It frequently happens that the most beautiful points of Scottish scenery lie hidden in some
sequestered dell, and that you may travel through the country in every direction without being
aware of your vicinity to what is well worth seeing, unless intention or accident carry you
to the very spot. This is particularly the case in the country around Fairport, which is, generally
speaking, open, unenclosed, and bare. But here and there the progress of rills, or small rivers,
has formed dells, glens, or as they are provincially termed, dens, on whose high and rocky
banks trees and shrubs of all kinds find a shelter, and grow with a luxuriant profusion, which
is the more gratifying, as it forms an unexpected contrast with the general face of the country.
This was eminently the case with the approach to the ruins of Saint Ruth, which was for some
time merely a sheep-track, along the side of a steep and bare hill. By degrees, however, as
this path descended, and winded round the hillside, trees began to appear, at first singly,
stunted, and blighted, with locks of wool upon their trunks, and their roots hollowed out into
recesses, in which the sheep love to repose themselves—a sight much more gratifying to the
eye of an admirer of the picturesque than to that of a planter or forester. By and by the trees
formed groups, fringed on the edges, and filled up in the middle, by thorns and hazel bushes;
and at length these groups closed so much together, that although a broad glade opened here
and there under their boughs, or a small patch of bog or heath occurred which had refused nourishment
to the seed which they sprinkled round, and consequently remained open and waste, the scene
might on the whole be termed decidedly woodland. The sides of the valley began to approach
each other more closely; the rush of a brook was heard below, and between the intervals afforded
by openings in the natural wood, its waters were seen hurling clear and rapid under their silvan
canopy.

Oldbuck now took upon himself the full authority of cicerone, and anxiously directed the company
not to go a foot-breadth off the track which he pointed out to them, if they wished to enjoy
in full perfection what they came to see. *

* (Milton's Comus.)

Ah! deuce take it!—that spray of a bramble has demolished all Caxon's labours, and nearly canted
my wig into the stream—so much for recitations, hors de propos." In fact, when they had followed
him through a breach in a low, ancient, and ruinous wall, they came suddenly upon a scene equally
unexpected and interesting.

They stood pretty high upon the side of the glen, which had suddenly opened into a sort of
amphitheatre to give room for a pure and profound lake of a few acres extent, and a space of
level ground around it. The banks then arose everywhere steeply, and in some places were varied
by rocks—in others covered with the copse, which run up, feathering their sides lightly and
irregularly, and breaking the uniformity of the green pasture-ground.—Beneath, the lake discharged
itself into the huddling and tumultuous brook, which had been their companion since they had
entered the glen. At the point at which it issued from "its parent lake," stood the ruins which
they had come to visit. They were not of great extent; but the singular beauty, as well as
the wild and sequestered character of the spot on which they were situated, gave them an interest
and importance superior to that which attaches itself to architectural remains of greater consequence,
but placed near to ordinary houses, and possessing less romantic accompaniments. The eastern
window of the church remained entire, with all its ornaments and tracery work; and the sides,
upheld by flying buttresses whose airy support, detached from the wall against which they were
placed, and ornamented with pinnacles and carved work, gave a variety and lightness to the
building. The roof and western end of the church were completely ruinous; but the latter appeared
to have made one side of a square, of which the ruins of the conventual buildings formed other
two, and the gardens a fourth. The side of these buildings which overhung the brook, was partly
founded on a steep and precipitous rock; for the place had been occasionally turned to military
purposes, and had been taken with great slaughter during Montrose's wars. The ground formerly
occupied by the garden was still marked by a few orchard trees. At a greater distance from
the buildings were detached oaks and elms and chestnuts, growing singly, which had attained
great size. The rest of the space between the ruins and the hill was a close-cropt sward, which
the daily pasture of the sheep kept in much finer order than if it had been subjected to the
scythe and broom. The whole scene had a repose, which was still and affecting without being
monotonous. The dark, deep basin, in which the clear blue lake reposed, reflecting the water
lilies which grew on its surface, and the trees which here and there threw their arms from
the banks, was finely contrasted with the haste and tumult of the brook which broke away from
the outlet, as if escaping from confinement and hurried down the glen, wheeling around the
base of the rock on which the ruins were situated, and brawling in foam and fury with every
shelve and stone which obstructed its passage. A similar contrast was seen between the level
green meadow, in which the ruins were situated, and the large timber-trees which were scattered
over it, compared with the precipitous banks which arose at a short distance around, partly
fringed with light and feathery underwood, partly rising in steeps clothed with purple heath,
and partly more abruptly elevated into fronts of grey rock, chequered with lichen, and with
those hardy plants which find root even in the most arid crevices of the crags.

"There was the retreat of learning in the days of darkness, Mr. Lovel!" said Oldbuck,—around
whom the company had now grouped themselves while they admired the unexpected opening of a
prospect so romantic;—"there reposed the sages who were aweary of the world, and devoted either
to that which was to come, or to the service of the generations who should follow them in this.
I will show you presently the library;—see that stretch of wall with square-shafted windows—there
it existed, stored, as an old manuscript in my possession assures me, with five thousand volumes.
And here I might well take up the lamentation of the learned Leland, who, regretting the downfall
of the conventual libraries, exclaims, like Rachel weeping for her children, that if the Papal
laws, decrees, decretals, clementines, and other such drugs of the devil—yea, if Heytesburg's
sophisms, Porphyry's universals, Aristotle's logic, and Dunse's divinity, with such other lousy
legerdemains (begging your pardon, Miss Wardour) and fruits of the bottomless pit,—had leaped
out of our libraries, for the accommodation of grocers, candlemakers, soapsellers, and other
worldly occupiers, we might have been therewith contented. But to put our ancient chronicles,
our noble histories, our learned commentaries, and national muniments, to such offices of contempt
and subjection, has greatly degraded our nation, and showed ourselves dishonoured in the eyes
of posterity to the utmost stretch of time—O negligence most unfriendly to our land!"

"And, O John Knox" said the Baronet, "through whose influence, and under whose auspices, the
patriotic task was accomplished!"

The Antiquary, somewhat in the situation of a woodcock caught in his own springe, turned short
round and coughed, to excuse a slight blush as he mustered his answer—"as to the Apostle of
the Scottish Reformation"—

But Miss Wardour broke in to interrupt a conversation so dangerous. "Pray, who was the author
you quoted, Mr. Oldbuck?"

"The learned Leland, Miss Wardour, who lost his senses on witnessing the destruction of the
conventual libraries in England."

"Now, I think," replied the young lady, "his misfortune may have saved the rationality of some
modern antiquaries, which would certainly have been drowned if so vast a lake of learning had
not been diminished by draining."

"Well, thank Heaven, there is no danger now—they have hardly left us a spoonful in which to
perform the dire feat."

So saying, Mr. Oldbuck led the way down the bank, by a steep but secure path, which soon placed
them on the verdant meadow where the ruins stood. "There they lived," continued the Antiquary,
"with nought to do but to spend their time in investigating points of remote antiquity, transcribing
manuscripts, and composing new works for the information of posterity."

"And," added the Baronet, "in exercising the rites of devotion with a pomp and ceremonial worthy
of the office of the priesthood."

"And if Sir Arthur's excellence will permit," said the German, with a low bow, "the monksh
might also make de vary curious experiment in deir laboraties, both in chemistry and magia
naturalis."

"I think," said the clergyman, "they would have enough to do in collecting the teinds of the
parsonage and vicarage of three good parishes."

"And all," added Miss Wardour, nodding to the Antiquary, "without interruption from womankind."

"True, my fair foe," said Oldbuck; "this was a paradise where no Eve was admitted, and we may
wonder the rather by what chance the good fathers came to lose it."

With such criticisms on the occupations of those by whom the ruins had been formerly possessed,
they wandered for some time from one moss-grown shrine to another, under the guidance of Oldbuck,
who explained, with much plausibility, the ground-plan of the edifice, and read and expounded
to the company the various mouldering inscriptions which yet were to be traced upon the tombs
of the dead, or under the vacant niches of the sainted images.

"What is the reason," at length Miss Wardour asked the Antiquary, "why tradition has preserved
to us such meagre accounts of the inmates of these stately edifices, raised with such expense
of labour and taste, and whose owners were in their times personages of such awful power and
importance? The meanest tower of a freebooting baron or squire who lived by his lance and broadsword,
is consecrated by its appropriate legend, and the shepherd will tell you with accuracy the
names and feats of its inhabitants;—but ask a countryman concerning these beautiful and extensive
remains—these towers, these arches, and buttresses, and shafted windows, reared at such cost,—three
words fill up his answer—they were made up by the monks lang syne.'"

The question was somewhat puzzling. Sir Arthur looked upward, as if hoping to be inspired with
an answer—Oldbuck shoved back his wig—the clergyman was of opinion that his parishioners were
too deeply impressed with the true presbyterian doctrine to preserve any records concerning
the papistical cumberers of the land, offshoots as they were of the great overshadowing tree
of iniquity, whose roots are in the bowels of the seven hills of abomination—Lovel thought
the question was best resolved by considering what are the events which leave the deepest impression
on the minds of the common people—"These," he contended, "were not such as resemble the gradual
progress of a fertilizing river, but the headlong and precipitous fury of some portentous flood.
The eras by which the vulgar compute time, have always reference to some period of fear and
tribulation, and they date by a tempest, an earthquake, or burst of civil commotion. When such
are the facts most alive, in the memory of the common people, we cannot wonder," he concluded,
"that the ferocious warrior is remembered, and the peaceful abbots are abandoned to forgetfulness
and oblivion."

"If you pleashe, gentlemans and ladies, and ashking pardon of Sir Arthur and Miss Wardour,
and this worthy clergymansh, and my goot friend Mr. Oldenbuck, who is my countrymansh, and
of goot young Mr. Lofel also, I think it is all owing to de hand of glory."

"The hand of what?" exclaimed Oldbuck.

"De hand of glory, my goot Master Oldenbuck, which is a vary great and terrible secrets—which
de monksh used to conceal their treasures when they were triven from their cloisters by what
you call de Reform."

"Ay, indeed! tell us about that," said Oldbuck, "for these are secrets worth knowing."

"Why, my goot Master Oldenbuck, you will only laugh at me—But de hand of glory is vary well
known in de countries where your worthy progenitors did live—and it is hand cut off from a
dead man, as has been hanged for murther, and dried very nice in de shmoke of juniper wood;
and if you put a little of what you call yew wid your juniper, it will not be any better—that
is, it will not be no worse—then you do take something of de fatsh of de bear, and of de badger,
and of de great eber, as you call de grand boar, and of de little sucking child as has not
been christened (for dat is very essentials), and you do make a candle, and put it into de
hand of glory at de proper hour and minute, with de proper ceremonish, and he who seeksh for
treasuresh shall never find none at all,"

"I dare take my corporal oath of that conclusion," said the Antiquary. "And was it the custom,
Mr. Dousterswivel, in Westphalia, to make use of this elegant candelabrum?"

"Alwaysh, Mr. Oldenbuck, when you did not want nobody to talk of nothing you wash doing about—And
the monksh alwaysh did this when they did hide their church-plates, and their great chalices,
and de rings, wid very preshious shtones and jewels."

"But, notwithstanding, you knights of the Rosy Cross have means, no doubt, of breaking the
spell, and discovering what the poor monks have put themselves to so much trouble to conceal?"

"Ah! goot Mr. Oldenbuck," replied the adept, shaking his head mysteriously, "you was very hard
to believe; but if you had seen de great huge pieces of de plate so massive, Sir Arthur,—so
fine fashion, Miss Wardour—and de silver cross dat we did find (dat was Schroepfer and my ownself)
for de Herr Freygraf, as you call de Baron Von Blunderhaus, I do believe you would have believed
then."

"Seeing is believing indeed. But what was your art—what was your mystery, Mr. Dousterswivel?"

"Aha, Mr. Oldenbuck! dat is my little secret, mine goot sir—you sall forgife me that I not
tell that. But I will tell you dere are various ways—yes, indeed, dere is de dream dat you
dream tree times—dat is a vary goot way."

"I am glad of that," said Oldbuck; "I have a friend" (with a side-glance to Lovel) "who is
peculiarly favoured by the visits of Queen Mab."

"Den dere is de sympathies, and de antipathies, and de strange properties and virtues natural
of divers herb, and of de little divining-rod."

"I would gladly rather see some of these wonders than hear of them," said Miss Wardour.

"Ah, but, my much-honoured young lady, this is not de time or de way to do de great wonder
of finding all de church's plate and treasure; but to oblige you, and Sir Arthur my patron,
and de reverend clergymans, and goot Mr. Oldenbuck, and young Mr. Lofel, who is a very goot
young gentleman also, I will show you dat it is possible, a vary possible, to discover de spring,
of water, and de little fountain hidden in de ground, without any mattock, or spade, or dig
at all."

"Umph!" quoth the Antiquary, "I have heard of that conundrum. That will be no very productive
art in our country;—you should carry that property to Spain or Portugal, and turn it to good
account."

"Ah! my goot Master Oldenbuck, dere is de Inquisition and de Auto-da-fe—they would burn me,
who am but a simple philosopher, for one great conjurer."

"They would cast away their coals then," said Oldbuck; "but," continued he, in a whisper to
Lovel, "were they to pillory him for one of the most impudent rascals that ever wagged a tongue,
they would square the punishment more accurately with his deserts. But let us see: I think
he is about to show us some of his legerdemain."

In truth, the German was now got to a little copse-thicket at some distance from the ruins,
where he affected busily to search for such a wand as would suit the purpose of his mystery:
and after cutting and examining, and rejecting several, he at length provided himself with
a small twig of hazel terminating in a forked end, which he pronounced to possess the virtue
proper for the experiment that he was about to exhibit. Holding the forked ends of the wand,
each between a finger and thumb, and thus keeping the rod upright, he proceeded to pace the
ruined aisles and cloisters, followed by the rest of the company in admiring procession. "I
believe dere was no waters here," said the adept, when he had made the round of several of
the buildings, without perceiving any of those indications which he pretended to expect—"I
believe those Scotch monksh did find de water too cool for de climate, and alwaysh drank de
goot comfortable, Rhinewine. But, aha!—see there!" Accordingly, the assistants observed the
rod to turn in his fingers, although he pretended to hold it very tight.—"Dere is water here
about, sure enough," and, turning this way and that way, as the agitation of the divining-rod
seemed to increase or diminish, he at length advanced into the midst of a vacant and roofless
enclosure which had been the kitchen of the priory, when the rod twisted itself so as to point
almost straight downwards. "Here is de place," said the adept, "and if you do not find de water
here, I will give you all leave to call me an impudent knave."

"I shall take that license," whispered the Antiquary to Lovel, "whether the water is discovered
or no."

A servant, who had come up with a basket of cold refreshments, was now despatched to a neighbouring
forester's hut for a mattock and pick-axe. The loose stones and rubbish being removed from
the spot indicated by the German, they soon came to the sides of a regularly-built well; and
when a few feet of rubbish were cleared out by the assistance of the forester and his sons,
the water began to rise rapidly, to the delight of the philosopher, the astonishment of the
ladies, Mr. Blattergowl, and Sir Arthur, the surprise of Lovel, and the confusion of the incredulous
Antiquary. He did not fail, however, to enter his protest in Lovers ear against the miracle.
"This is a mere trick," he said; "the rascal had made himself sure of the existence of this
old well, by some means or other, before he played off this mystical piece of jugglery. Mark
what he talks of next. I am much mistaken if this is not intended as a prelude to some more
serious fraud. See how the rascal assumes consequence, and plumes himself upon the credit of
his success, and how poor Sir Arthur takes in the tide of nonsense which he is delivering to
him as principles of occult science!"

"You do see, my goot patron, you do see, my goot ladies, you do see, worthy Dr. Bladderhowl,
and even Mr. Lofel and Mr. Oldenbuck may see, if they do will to see, how art has no enemy
at all but ignorance. Look at this little slip of hazel nuts—it is fit for nothing at all but
to whip de little child"—("I would choose a cat and nine tails for your occasions," whispered
Oldbuck apart)—"and you put it in the hands of a philosopher—paf! it makes de grand discovery.
But this is nothing, Sir Arthur,—nothing at all, worthy Dr. Botherhowl—nothing at all, ladies—nothing
at all, young Mr. Lofel and goot Mr. Oldenbuck, to what art can do. Ah! if dere was any man
that had de spirit and de courage, I would show him better things than de well of water—I would
show him"—

"And a little money would be necessary also, would it not?" said the Antiquary.

"Bah! one trifle, not worth talking about, maight be necessaries," answered the adept.

"I thought as much," rejoined the Antiquary, drily; "and I, in the meanwhile, without any divining-rod,
will show you an excellent venison pasty, and a bottle of London particular Madeira, and I
think that will match all that Mr. Dousterswivel's art is like to exhibit."

The feast was spread fronde super viridi, as Oldbuck expressed himself, under a huge old tree
called the Prior's Oak, and the company, sitting down around it, did ample honour to the, contents
of the basket.

CHAPTER EIGHTEENTH.

When their collation was ended, Sir Arthur resumed the account of the mysteries of the divining-rod,
as a subject on which he had formerly conversed with Dousterswivel. "My friend Mr. Oldbuck
will now be prepared, Mr. Dousterswivel, to listen with more respect to the stories you have
told us of the late discoveries in Germany by the brethren of your association."

"Ah, Sir Arthur, that was not a thing to speak to those gentlemans, because it is want of credulity—what
you call faith—that spoils the great enterprise."

"At least, however, let my daughter read the narrative she has taken down of the story of Martin
Waldeck."

"Ah! that was vary true story—but Miss Wardour, she is so sly and so witty, that she has made
it just like one romance—as well as Goethe or Wieland could have done it, by mine honest wort."

"To say the truth, Mr. Dousterswivel," answered Miss Wardour, "the romantic predominated in
the legend so much above the probable, that it was impossible for a lover of fairyland like
me to avoid lending a few touches to make it perfect in its kind. But here it is, and if you
do not incline to leave this shade till the heat of the day has somewhat declined, and will
have sympathy with my bad composition, perhaps Sir Arthur or Mr. Oldbuck will read it to us."

"Not I," said Sir Arthur; "I was never fond of reading aloud."

"Nor I," said Oldbuck, "for I have forgot my spectacles. But here is Lovel, with sharp eyes
and a good voice; for Mr. Blattergowl, I know, never reads anything, lest he should be suspected
of reading his sermons."

The task was therefore imposed upon Lovel, who received, with some trepidation, as Miss Wardour
delivered, with a little embarrassment, a paper containing the lines traced by that fair hand,
the possession of which he coveted as the highest blessing the earth could offer to him. But
there was a necessity of suppressing his emotions; and after glancing over the manuscript,
as if to become acquainted with the character, he collected himself, and read the company the
following tale:— The Fortunes of Martin Waldeck.

The solitudes of the Harz forest in Germany, but especially the mountains called Blocksberg,
or rather Brockenberg, are the chosen scenes for tales of witches, demons, and apparitions.

[The outline of this story is taken from the German, though the Author is at present unable
to say in which of the various collections of the popular legends in that language the original
is to be found.]

The occupation of the inhabitants, who are either miners or foresters, is of a kind that renders
them peculiarly prone to superstition, and the natural phenomena which they witness in pursuit
of their solitary or subterraneous profession, are often set down by them to the interference
of goblins or the power of magic. Among the various legends current in that wild country, there
is a favourite one, which supposes the Harz to be haunted by a sort of tutelar demon, in the
shape of a wild man, of huge stature, his head wreathed with oak leaves, and his middle cinctured
with the same, bearing in his hand a pine torn up by the roots. It is certain that many persons
profess to have seen such a form traversing, with huge strides, in a line parallel to their
own course, the opposite ridge of a mountain, when divided from it by a narrow glen; and indeed
the fact of the apparition is so generally admitted, that modern scepticism has only found
refuge by ascribing it to optical deception. *

*The shadow of the person who sees the phantom, being reflected upon a cloud of mist, like
the image of the magic lantern upon a white sheet, is supposed to have formed the apparition.

In elder times, the intercourse of the demon with the inhabitants was more familiar, and, according
to the traditions of the Harz, he was wont, with the caprice usually ascribed to these earth-born
powers, to interfere with the affairs of mortals, sometimes for their weal, sometimes for their
wo. But it was observed that even his gifts often turned out, in the long run, fatal to those
on whom they were bestowed, and it was no uncommon thing for the pastors, in their care of
their flocks, to compose long sermons, the burden whereof was a warning against having any
intercourse, direct or indirect, with the Harz demon. The fortunes of Martin Waldeck have been
often quoted by the aged to their giddy children, when they were heard to scoff at a danger
which appeared visionary.

A travelling capuchin had possessed himself of the pulpit of the thatched church at a little
hamlet called Morgenbrodt, lying in the Harz district, from which he declaimed against the
wickedness of the inhabitants, their communication with fiends, witches, and fairies, and,
in particular, with the woodland goblin of the Harz. The doctrines of Luther had already begun
to spread among the peasantry (for the incident is placed under the reign of Charles V. ),
and they laughed to scorn the zeal with which the venerable man insisted upon his topic. At
length, as his vehemence increased with opposition, so their opposition rose in proportion
to his vehemence. The inhabitants did not like to hear an accustomed quiet demon, who had inhabited
the Brockenberg for so many ages, summarily confounded with Baal-peor, Ashtaroth, and Beelzebub
himself, and condemned without reprieve to the bottomless Tophet. The apprehensions that the
spirit might avenge himself on them for listening to such an illiberal sentence, added to their
national interest in his behalf. A travelling friar, they said, that is here to-day and away
to-morrow, may say what he pleases: but it is we, the ancient and constant inhabitants of the
country, that are left at the mercy of the insulted demon, and must, of course, pay for all.
Under the irritation occasioned by these reflections, the peasants from injurious language
betook themselves to stones, and having pebbled the priest pretty handsomely, they drove him
out of the parish to preach against demons elsewhere.

Three young men, who had been present and assisting on this occasion were upon their return
to the hut where they carried on the laborious and mean occupation of preparing charcoal for
the smelting furnaces. On the way, their conversation naturally turned upon the demon of the
Harz and the doctrine of the capuchin. Max and George Waldeck, the two elder brothers, although
they allowed the language of the capuchin to have been indiscreet and worthy of censure, as
presuming to determine upon the precise character and abode of the spirit, yet contended it
was dangerous, in the highest degree, to accept of his gifts, or hold any communication with
him, He was powerful, they allowed, but wayward and capricious, and those who had intercourse
with him seldom came to a good end. Did he not give the brave knight, Ecbert of Rabenwald,
that famous black steed, by means of which he vanquished all the champions at the great tournament
at Bremen? and did not the same steed afterwards precipitate itself with its rider into an
abyss so steep and fearful, that neither horse nor man were ever seen more? Had he not given
to Dame Gertrude Trodden a curious spell for making butter come? and was she not burnt for
a witch by the grand criminal judge of the Electorate, because she availed herself of his gift?
But these, and many other instances which they quoted, of mischance and ill-luck ultimately
attending on the apparent benefits conferred by the Harz spirit, failed to make any impression
upon Martin Waldeck, the youngest of the brothers.

Martin was youthful, rash, and impetuous; excelling in all the exercises which distinguish
a mountaineer, and brave and undaunted from his familiar intercourse with the dangers that
attend them. He laughed at the timidity of his brothers. "Tell me not of such folly," he said;
"the demon is a good demon—he lives among us as if he were a peasant like ourselves—haunts
the lonely crags and recesses of the mountains like a huntsman or goatherd—and he who loves
the Harz forest and its wild scenes cannot be indifferent to the fate of the hardy children
of the soil. But, if the demon were as malicious as you would make him, how should he derive
power over mortals, who barely avail themselves of his gifts, without binding themselves to
submit to his pleasure? When you carry your charcoal to the furnace, is not the money as good
that is paid you by blaspheming Blaize, the old reprobate overseer, as if you got it from the
pastor himself? It is not the goblins gifts which can endanger you, then, but it is the use
you shall make of them that you must account for. And were the demon to appear to me at this
moment, and indicate to me a gold or silver mine, I would begin to dig away even before his
back were turned,—and I would consider myself as under protection of a much Greater than he,
while I made a good use of the wealth he pointed out to me."

To this the elder brother replied, that wealth ill won was seldom well spent; while Martin
presumptuously declared, that the possession of all the treasures of the Harz would not make
the slightest alteration on his habits, morals, or character.

His brother entreated Martin to talk less wildly upon the subject, and with some difficulty
contrived to withdraw his attention, by calling it to the consideration of the approaching
boar-chase. This talk brought them to their hut, a wretched wigwam, situated upon one side
of a wild, narrow, and romantic dell, in the recesses of the Brockenberg. They released their
sister from attending upon the operation of charring the wood, which requires constant attention,
and divided among themselves the duty of watching it by night, according to their custom, one
always waking, while his brothers slept.

Max Waldeck, the eldest, watched during the first two hours of the night, and was considerably
alarmed by observing, upon the opposite bank of the glen, or valley, a huge fire surrounded
by some figures that appeared to wheel around it with antic gestures. Max at first bethought
him of calling up his brothers; but recollecting the daring character of the youngest, and
finding it impossible to wake the elder without also disturbing Martin—conceiving also what
he saw to be an illusion of the demon, sent perhaps in consequence of the venturous expressions
used by Martin on the preceding evening, he thought it best to betake himself to the safeguard
of such prayers as he could murmur over, and to watch in great terror and annoyance this strange
and alarming apparition. After blazing for some time, the fire faded gradually away into darkness,
and the rest of Max's watch was only disturbed by the remembrance of its terrors.

George now occupied the place of Max, who had retired to rest. The phenomenon of a huge blazing
fire, upon the opposite bank of the glen, again presented itself to the eye of the watchman.
It was surrounded as before by figures, which, distinguished by their opaque forms, being between
the spectator and the red glaring light, moved and fluctuated around it as if engaged in some
mystical ceremony. George, though equally cautious, was of a bolder character than his elder
brother. He resolved to examine more nearly the object of his wonder; and, accordingly after
crossing the rivulet which divided the glen, he climbed up the opposite bank, and approached
within an arrow's flight of the fire, which blazed apparently with the same fury as when he
first witnessed it.

The appearance, of the assistants who surrounded it resembled those phantoms which are seen
in a troubled dream, and at once confirmed the idea he had entertained from the first, that
they did not belong to the human world. Amongst these strange unearthly forms, George Waldeck
distinguished that of a giant overgrown with hair, holding an uprooted fir in his hand, with
which, from time to time, he seemed to stir the blazing fire, and having no other clothing
than a wreath of oak leaves around his forehead and loins. George's heart sunk within him at
recognising the well-known apparition of the Harz demon, as he had been often described to
him by the ancient shepherds and huntsmen who had seen his form traversing the mountains. He
turned, and was about to fly; but upon second thoughts, blaming his own cowardice, he recited
mentally the verse of the Psalmist, "All good angels, praise the Lord!" which is in that country
supposed powerful as an exorcism, and turned himself once more towards the place where he had
seen the fire. But it was no longer visible.

The pale moon alone enlightened the side of the valley; and when George, with trembling steps,
a moist brow, and hair bristling upright under his collier's cap, came to the spot on which
the fire had been so lately visible, marked as it was by a scathed oak-tree, there appeared
not on the heath the slightest vestiges of what he had seen. The moss and wild flowers were
unscorched, and the branches of the oak-tree, which had so lately appeared enveloped in wreaths
of flame and smoke, were moist with the dews of midnight.

George returned to his hut with trembling steps, and, arguing like his elder brother, resolved
to say nothing of what he had seen, lest he should awake in Martin that daring curiosity which
he almost deemed to be allied with impiety.

It was now Martin's turn to watch. The household cock had given his first summons, and the
night was well-nigh spent. Upon examining the state of the furnace in which the wood was deposited
in order to its being coked or charred, he was surprised to find that the fire had not been
sufficiently maintained; for in his excursion and its consequences, George had forgot the principal
object of his watch. Martin's first thought was to call up the slumberers; but observing that
both his brothers slept unwontedly deep and heavily, he respected their repose, and set himself
to supply the furnace with fuel without requiring their aid. What he heaped upon it was apparently
damp and unfit for the purpose, for the fire seemed rather to decay than revive. Martin next
went to collect some boughs from a stack which had been carefully cut and dried for this purpose;
but, when he returned, he found the fire totally extinguished. This was a serious evil, and
threatened them with loss of their trade for more than one day. The vexed and mortified watchman
set about to strike a light in order to rekindle the fire but the tinder was moist, and his
labour proved in this respect also ineffectual. He was now about to call up his brothers, for
circumstances seemed to be pressing, when flashes of light glimmered not only through the window,
but through every crevice of the rudely built hut, and summoned him to behold the same apparition
which had before alarmed the successive watches of his brethren. His first idea was, that the
Muhllerhaussers, their rivals in trade, and with whom they had had many quarrels, might have
encroached upon their bounds for the purpose of pirating their wood; and he resolved to awake
his brothers, and be revenged on them for their audacity. But a short reflection and observation
on the gestures and manner of those who seemed to "work in the fire," induced him to dismiss
this belief, and although rather sceptical in such matters, to conclude that what he saw was
a supernatural phenomenon. "But be they men or fiends," said the undaunted forester, "that
busy themselves yonder with such fantastical rites and gestures, I will go and demand a light
to rekindle our furnace." He, relinquished at the same time the idea of awaking his brethren.
There was a belief that such adventures as he was about to undertake were accessible only to
one person at a time; he feared also that his brothers, in their scrupulous timidity, might
interfere to prevent his pursuing the investigation he had resolved to commence; and, therefore,
snatching his boar-spear from the wall, the undaunted Martin Waldeck set forth on the adventure
alone.

With the same success as his brother George, but with courage far superior, Martin crossed
the brook, ascended the hill, and approached so near the ghostly assembly, that he could recognise,
in the presiding figure, the attributes of the Harz demon. A cold shuddering assailed him for
the first time in his life; but the recollection that he had at a distance dared and even courted
the intercourse which was now about to take place, confirmed his staggering courage; and pride
supplying what he wanted in resolution, he advanced with tolerable firmness towards the fire,
the figures which surrounded it appearing still more wild, fantastical, and supernatural, the
more near he approached to the assembly. He was received with a loud shout of discordant and
unnatural laughter, which, to his stunned ears, seemed more alarming than a combination of
the most dismal and melancholy sounds that could be imagined. "Who art thou?" said the giant,
compressing his savage and exaggerated features into a sort of forced gravity, while they were
occasionally agitated by the convulsion of the laughter which he seemed to suppress.

"Martin Waldeck, the forester," answered the hardy youth;—"and who are you?"

"The King of the Waste and of the Mine," answered the spectre;—"and why hast thou dared to
encroach on my mysteries?"

"I came in search of light to rekindle my fire," answered Martin, hardily, and then resolutely
asked in his turn, "What mysteries are those that you celebrate here?"

"We celebrate," answered the complaisant demon, "the wedding of Hermes with the Black Dragon—But
take thy fire that thou camest to seek, and begone! no mortal may look upon us and live."

The peasant struck his spear-point into a large piece of blazing wood, which he heaved up with
some difficulty, and then turned round to regain his hut, the, shouts of laughter being renewed
behind him with treble violence, and ringing far down the narrow valley. When Martin returned
to the hut, his first care, however much astonished with what he had seen, was to dispose the
kindled coal among the fuel so as might best light the fire of his furnace; but after many
efforts, and all exertions of bellows and fire-prong, the coal he had brought from the demon's
fire became totally extinct without kindling any of the others. He turned about, and observed
the fire still blazing on the hill, although those who had been busied around it had disappeared.
As he conceived the spectre had been jesting with him, he gave way to the natural hardihood
of his temper, and, determining to see the adventure to an end, resumed the road to the fire,
from which, unopposed by the demon, he brought off in the same manner a blazing piece of charcoal,
but still without being able to succeed in lighting his fire. Impunity having increased his
rashness, he resolved upon a third experiment, and was as successful as before in reaching
the fire; but when he had again appropriated a piece of burning coal, and had turned to depart,
he heard the harsh and supernatural voice which had before accosted him, pronounce these words,
"Dare not return hither a fourth time!"

The attempt to kindle the fire with this last coal having proved as ineffectual as on the former
occasions, Martin relinquished the hopeless attempt, and flung himself on his bed of leaves,
resolving to delay till the next morning the communication of his supernatural adventure to
his brothers. He was awakened from a heavy sleep into which he had sunk, from fatigue of body
and agitation of mind, by loud exclamations of surprise and joy. His brothers, astonished at
finding the fire extinguished when they awoke, had proceeded to arrange the fuel in order to
renew it, when they found in the ashes three huge metallic masses, which their skill (for most
of the peasants in the Harz are practical mineralogists) immediately ascertained to be pure gold.

It was some damp upon their joyful congratulations when they learned from Martin the mode in
which he had obtained this treasure, to which their own experience of the nocturnal vision
induced them to give full credit. But they were unable to resist the temptation of sharing
in their brother's wealth. Taking now upon him as head of the house, Martin Waldeck bought
lands and forests, built a castle, obtained a patent of nobility, and, greatly to the indignation
of the ancient aristocracy of the neighbourhood, was invested with all the privileges of a
man of family. His courage in public war, as well as in private feuds, together with the number
of retainers whom he kept in pay, sustained him for some time against the odium which was excited
by his sudden elevation, and the arrogance of his pretensions.

And now it was seen in the instance of Martin Waldeck, as it has been in that of many others,
how little mortals can foresee the effect of sudden prosperity on their own disposition. The
evil propensities in his nature, which poverty had checked and repressed, ripened and bore
their unhallowed fruit under the influence of temptation and the means of indulgence. As Deep
calls unto Deep, one bad passion awakened another the fiend of avarice invoked that of pride,
and pride was to be supported by cruelty and oppression. Waldeck's character, always bold and
daring but rendered harsh and assuming by prosperity, soon made him odious, not to the nobles
only, but likewise to the lower ranks, who saw, with double dislike, the oppressive rights
of the feudal nobility of the empire so remorselessly exercised by one who had risen from the
very dregs of the people. His adventure, although carefully concealed, began likewise to be
whispered abroad, and the clergy already stigmatized as a wizard and accomplice of fiends,
the wretch, who, having acquired so huge a treasure in so strange a manner, had not sought
to sanctify it by dedicating a considerable portion to the use of the church. Surrounded by
enemies, public and private, tormented by a thousand feuds, and threatened by the church with
excommunication, Martin Waldeck, or, as we must now call him, the Baron von Waldeck, often
regretted bitterly the labours and sports of his unenvied poverty. But his courage failed him
not under all these difficulties, and seemed rather to augment in proportion to the danger
which darkened around him, until an accident precipitated his fall.

A proclamation by the reigning Duke of Brunswick had invited to a solemn tournament all German
nobles of free and honourable descent; and Martin Waldeck, splendidly armed, accompanied by
his two brothers, and a gallantly-equipped retinue, had the arrogance to appear among the chivalry
of the province, and demand permission to enter the lists. This was considered as filling up
the measure of his presumption. A thousand voices exclaimed, "We will have no cinder-sifter
mingle in our games of chivalry." Irritated to frenzy, Martin drew his sword and hewed down
the herald, who, in compliance with the general outcry, opposed his entry into the lists. An
hundred swords were unsheathed to avenge what was in those days regarded as a crime only inferior
to sacrilege or regicide. Waldeck, after defending himself like a lion, was seized, tried on
the spot by the judges of the lists, and condemned, as the appropriate punishment for breaking
the peace of his sovereign, and violating the sacred person of a herald-at-arms, to have his
right hand struck from his body, to be ignominiously deprived of the honour of nobility, of
which he was unworthy, and to be expelled from the city. When he had been stripped of his arms,
and sustained the mutilation imposed by this severe sentence, the unhappy victim of ambition
was abandoned to the rabble, who followed him with threats and outcries levelled alternately
against the necromancer and oppressor, which at length ended in violence. His brothers (for
his retinue were fled and dispersed) at length succeeded in rescuing him from the hands of
the populace, when, satiated with cruelty, they had left him half dead through loss of blood,
and through the outrages he had sustained. They were not permitted, such was the ingenious
cruelty of their enemies, to make use of any other means of removing him, excepting such a
collier's cart as they had themselves formerly used, in which they deposited their brother
on a truss of straw, scarcely expecting to reach any place of shelter ere death should release
him from his misery.

When the Waldecks, journeying in this miserable manner, had approached the verge of their native
country, in a hollow way, between two mountains, they perceived a figure advancing towards
them, which at first sight seemed to be an aged man. But as he approached, his limbs and stature
increased, the cloak fell from his shoulders, his pilgrim's staff was changed into an uprooted
pine-tree, and the gigantic figure of the Harz demon passed before them in his terrors. When
he came opposite to the cart which contained the miserable Waldeck, his huge features dilated
into a grin of unutterable contempt and malignity, as he asked the sufferer, "How like you
the fire my coals have kindled?" The power of motion, which terror suspended in his two brothers,
seemed to be restored to Martin by the energy of his courage. He raised himself on the cart,
bent his brows, and, clenching his fist, shook it at the spectre with a ghastly look of hate
and defiance. The goblin vanished with his usual tremendous and explosive laugh, and left Waldeck
exhausted with this effort of expiring nature.

The terrified brethren turned their vehicle toward the towers of a convent, which arose in
a wood of pine-trees beside the road. They were charitably received by a bare-footed and long-bearded
capuchin, and Martin survived only to complete the first confession he had made since the day
of his sudden prosperity, and to receive absolution from the very priest whom, precisely on
that day three years, he had assisted to pelt out of the hamlet of Morgenbrodt. The three years
of precarious prosperity were supposed to have a mysterious correspondence with the number
of his visits to the spectral fire upon the bill.

The body of Martin Waldeck was interred in the convent where he expired, in which his brothers,
having assumed the habit of the order, lived and died in the performance of acts of charity
and devotion. His lands, to which no one asserted any claim, lay waste until they were reassumed
by the emperor as a lapsed fief, and the ruins of the castle, which Waldeck had called by his
own name, are still shunned by the miner and forester as haunted by evil spirits. Thus were
the miseries attendant upon wealth, hastily attained and ill employed, exemplified in the fortunes
of Martin Waldeck.

CHAPTER NINETEENTH.

                 Here has been such a stormy encounter
                 Betwixt my cousin Captain, and this soldier,
                 About I know not what!—nothing, indeed;
                 Competitions, degrees, and comparatives
                          Of soldiership!—
                                    A Faire Qurrell.

The attentive audience gave the fair transcriber of the foregoing legend the thanks which politeness
required. Oldbuck alone curled up his nose, and observed, that Miss Wardour's skill was something
like that of the alchemists, for she had contrived to extract a sound and valuable moral out
of a very trumpery and ridiculous legend. "It is the fashion, as I am given to understand,
to admire those extravagant fictions—for me,

                            —I bear an English heart,
             Unused at ghosts and rattling bones to start."

"Under your favour, my goot Mr. Oldenbuck," said the German, "Miss Wardour has turned de story,
as she does every thing as she touches, very pretty indeed; but all the history of de Harz
goblin, and how he walks among de desolate mountains wid a great fir-tree for his walking cane,
and wid de great green bush around his head and his waist—that is as true as I am an honest man."

"There is no disputing any proposition so well guaranteed," answered the Antiquary, drily.
But at this moment the approach of a stranger cut short the conversation.

The new comer was a handsome young man, about five-and-twenty, in a military undress, and bearing,
in his look and manner, a good deal of the, martial profession—nay, perhaps a little more than
is quite consistent with the ease of a man of perfect good-breeding, in whom no professional
habit ought to predominate. He was at once greeted by the greater part of the company. "My
dear Hector!" said Miss M'Intyre, as she rose to take his hand—

"Hector, son of Priam, whence comest thou?" said the Antiquary.

"From Fife, my liege," answered the young soldier, and continued, when he had politely saluted
the rest of the company, and particularly Sir Arthur and his daughter—"I learned from one of
the servants, as I rode towards Monkbarns to pay my respects to you, that I should find the
present company in this place, and I willingly embrace the opportunity to pay my respects to
so many of my friends at once."

"And to a new one also, my trusty Trojan," said Oldbuck. "Mr. Lovel, this is my nephew, Captain
M'Intyre—Hector, I recommend Mr. Lovel to your acquaintance."

The young soldier fixed his keen eye upon Lovel, and paid his compliment with more reserve
than cordiality and as our acquaintance thought his coldness almost supercilious, he was equally
frigid and haughty in making the necessary return to it; and thus a prejudice seemed to arise
between them at the very commencement of their acquaintance.

The observations which Lovel made during the remainder of this pleasure party did not tend
to reconcile him with this addition to their society. Captain M'Intyre, with the gallantry
to be expected from his age and profession, attached himself to the service of Miss Wardour,
and offered her, on every possible opportunity, those marks of attention which Lovel would
have given the world to have rendered, and was only deterred from offering by the fear of her
displeasure. With forlorn dejection at one moment, and with irritated susceptibility at another,
he saw this handsome young soldier assume and exercise all the privileges of a cavaliere servente.
He handed Miss Wardour's gloves, he assisted her in putting on her shawl, he attached himself
to her in the walks, had a hand ready to remove every impediment in her path, and an arm to
support her where it was rugged or difficult; his conversation was addressed chiefly to her,
and, where circumstances permitted, it was exclusively so. All this, Lovel well knew, might
be only that sort of egotistical gallantry which induces some young men of the present day
to give themselves the air of engrossing the attention of the prettiest women in company, as
if the others were unworthy of their notice. But he thought he observed in the conduct of Captain
M'Intyre something of marked and peculiar tenderness, which was calculated to alarm the jealousy
of a lover. Miss Wardour also received his attentions; and although his candour allowed they
were of a kind which could not be repelled without some strain of affectation, yet it galled
him to the heart to witness that she did so.

