With a whoop the savages followed, jumping over the holes in the planking and avoiding the
nails in the open beams.

In the melee Archie had lost his pole, and was now standing, hat off, his blue eves flashing,
all the blood of his overheated little body blazing in his face. The tears of defeat were trembling
under his eyelids, He had been outnumbered, but he would die game. In his hand he carried,
unconsciously to himself, the big-bladed pocket knife the captain had given him. He would as
soon have used it on his mother as upon one of his enemies, but the Barnegat invaders were
ignorant of that fact, knives being the last resort in their environment.

"Look out, Sandy!" yelled Scootsy to his leader, who was now sneaking up to Archie with the
movement of an Indian in ambush;--"he's drawed a knife."

Sandy stopped and straightened himself within three feet of Archie. His hand still smarted
from the blow Archie had given it. The "spad" had not stopped a second in that attack, and
he might not in this; the next thing he knew the knife might be between his ribs.

"Drawed a knife, hev ye!" he snarled. "Drawed a knife, jes' like a spad that ye are! Ye oughter
put yer hair in curl-papers!"

Archie looked at the harmless knife in his hand.

"I can fight you with my fists if you are bigger than me," he cried, tossing the knife down
the open hatchway into the sand below. "Hold my coat, Tod," and he began stripping off his
little jacket.

"I ain't fightin' no spads," sneered Sandy. He didn't want to fight this one. "Yer can't skeer
nobody. You'll draw a pistol next. Yer better go home to yer mammy, if ye kin find her."

"He ain't got no mammy," snarled Scootsy. "He's a pick-up--me father says so."

Archie sprang forward to avenge the insult, but before he could reach Scootsy's side a yell
arose from the bow of the hulk.

"Yi! yi! Run, fellers! Here comes old man Fogarty! he's right on top o' ye! Not that side--this
way. Yi! yi!"

The invaders turned and ran the length of the deck, scrambled over the side and dropped one
after the other to the sand below just as the Fogarty head appeared at the bow. It was but
a step and a spring for him, and with a lurch he gained the deck of the wreck.

"By jiminy, boys, mother thought ye was all killed! Has them rats been botherin' ye? Ye oughter
broke the heads of 'em. Where did they get that plank? Come 'shore, did it? Here, Tod, catch
hold of it; I jes' wanted a piece o' floorin' like that. Why, ye're all het up, Archie! Come,
son, come to dinner; ye'll git cooled off, and mother's got a mess o' clams for ye. Never mind
'bout the ladder; I'll lift it down."

On the way over to the cabin, Fogarty and Tod carrying the plank and Archie walking beside
them, the fisherman gleaned from the boys the details of the fight. Archie had recovered the
captain's knife and it was now in his hand.

"Called ye a 'pick-up' did he, the rat, and said ye didn't have no mother. He's a liar! If
ye ain't got a mother, and a good one, I don't know who has. That's the way with them town-crabs,
allus cussin' somebody better'n themselves."

When Fogarty had tilted the big plank against the side of the cabin and the boys had entered
the kitchen in search of the mess of clams, the fisherman winked to his wife, jerked his head
meaningly over one shoulder, and Mrs. Fogarty, in answer, followed him out to the woodshed.

"Them sneaks from Barnegat, Mulligan's and Farguson's boys, and the rest of 'em, been lettin'
out on Archie: callin' him names, sayin' he ain't got no mother and he's one o' them pass-ins
ye find on yer doorstep in a basket. I laughed it off and he 'peared to forgit it, but I thought
he might ask ye, an' so I wanted to tip ye the wink."

"Well, ye needn't worry. I ain't goin' to tell him what I don't know," replied the wife, surprised
that he should bring her all the way out to the woodshed to tell her a thing like that.

"But ye DO know, don't ye?"

"All I know is what Uncle Ephraim told me four or five years ago, and he's so flighty half
the time and talks so much ye can't believe one-half he says--something about Miss Jane comin'
across Archie's mother in a horsepital in Paris, or some'er's and promisin' her a-dyin' that
she'd look after the boy, and she has. She'd do that here if there was women and babies up
to Doctor John's horsepital 'stead o' men. It's jes' like her," and Mrs. Fogarty, not to lose
her steps, stooped over a pile of wood and began gathering up an armful.

"Well, she ain't his mother, ye know," rejoined Fogarty, helping his wife with the sticks.
"That's what they slammed in his face to-day, and he'll git it ag'in as he grows up. But he
don't want to hear it from us."

"And he won't. Miss Jane ain't no fool. She knows more about him than anybody else, and when
she gits ready to tell him she'll tell him. Don't make no difference who his mother was--the
one he's got now is good enough for anybody. Tod would have been dead half a dozen times if
it hadn't been for her and Doctor John, and there ain't nobody knows it better'n me. It's just
like her to let Archie come here so much with Tod; she knows I ain't goin' to let nothin' happen
to him. And as for mothers, Sam Fogarty," here Mrs. Fogarty lifted her free hand and shook
her finger in a positive way--"when Archie gits short of mothers he's got one right here, don't
make no difference what you or anybody else says," and she tapped her broad bosom meaningly.

Contrary, however, to Fogarty's hopes and surmises, Archie had forgotten neither Sandy's insult
nor Scootsy's epithet. "He's a pick-up" and "he ain't got no mammy" kept ringing in his ears
as he walked back up the beach to his home. He remembered having heard the words once before
when he was some years younger, but then it had come from a passing neighbor and was not intended
for him. This time it was flung square in his face. Every now and then as he followed the trend
of the beach on his way home he would stop and look out over the sea, watching the long threads
of smoke being unwound from the spools of the steamers and the sails of the fishing-boats as
they caught the light of the setting sun. The epithet worried him. It was something to be ashamed
of, he knew, or they would not have used it.

Jane, standing outside the gate-post, shading her eyes with her hand, scanning the village
road, caught sight of his sturdy little figure the moment he turned the corner and ran to meet him.

"I got so worried--aren't you late, my son?" she asked, putting her arm about him and kissing
him tenderly.

"Yes, it's awful late. I ran all the way from the church when I saw the clock. I didn't know
it was past six. Oh, but we've had a bully day, mother! And we've had a fight. Tod and I were
pirates, and Scootsy Mulligan tried to--"

Jane stopped the boy's joyous account with a cry of surprise. They were now walking back to
Yardley's gate, hugging the stone wall.

"A fight! Oh, my son!"

"Yes, a bully fight; only there were seven of them and only two of us. That warn't fair, but
Mr. Fogarty says they always fight like that. I could have licked 'em if they come on one at
a time, but they got a plank and crawled up--"

"Crawled up where, my son?" asked Jane in astonishment. All this was an unknown world to her.
She had seen the wreck and had known, of course, that the boys were making a playhouse of it,
but this latter development was news to her.

"Why, on the pirate ship, where we've got our Bandit's Home. Tod is commodore and I'm first
mate. Tod and I did all we could, but they didn't fight fair, and Scootsy called me a 'pick-up'
and said I hadn't any mother. I asked Mr. Fogarty what he meant, but he wouldn't tell me. What's
a 'pick-up,' dearie?" and he lifted his face to Jane's, his honest blue eyes searching her own.

Jane caught her hand to her side and leaned for a moment against the stone wall. This was the
question which for years she had expected him to ask--one to which she had framed a hundred
imaginary answers. When as a baby he first began to talk she had determined to tell him she
was not his mother, and so get him gradually accustomed to the conditions of his birth. But
every day she loved him the more, and every day she had put it off. To-day it was no easier.
He was too young, she knew, to take in its full meaning, even if she could muster up the courage
to tell him the half she was willing to tell him--that his mother was her friend and on her
sick-bed had entrusted her child to her care. She had wanted to wait until he was old enough
to understand, so that she should not lose his love when he came to know the truth. There had
been, moreover, always this fear--would he love her for shielding his mother, or would he hate
Lucy when he came to know? She had once talked it all over with Captain Holt, but she could
never muster up the courage to take his advice.

"Tell him," he had urged. "It'll save you a lot o' trouble in the end. That'll let me out and
I kin do for him as I want to. You've lived under this cloud long enough--there ain't nobody
can live a lie a whole lifetime, Miss Jane. I'll take my share of the disgrace along of my
dead boy, and you ain't done nothin', God knows, to be ashamed of. Tell him! It's grease to
yer throat halyards and everything'll run smoother afterward. Take my advice, Miss Jane."

All these things rushed through her mind as she stood leaning against the stone wall, Archie's
hand in hers, his big blue eyes still fixed on her own.

"Who said that to you, my son?" she asked in assumed indifference, in order to gain time in
which to frame her answer and recover from the shock.

"Scootsy Mulligan."

"Is he a nice boy?"

"No, he's a coward, or he wouldn't fight as he does."

"Then I wouldn't mind him, my boy," and she smoothed back the hair from his forehead, her eyes
avoiding the boy's steady gaze. It was only when someone opened the door of the closet concealing
this spectre that Jane felt her knees give way and her heart turn sick within her. In all else
she was fearless and strong.

"Was he the boy who said you had no mother?"

"Yes. I gave him an awful whack when he came up the first time, and he went heels over head."

"Well, you have got a mother, haven't you, darling?" she continued, with a sigh of relief,
now that Archie was not insistent.

"You bet I have!" cried the boy, throwing his arms around her.

"Then we won't either of us bother about those bad boys and what they say," she answered, stooping
over and kissing him.

And so for a time the remembrance of Scootsy's epithet faded out of the boy's mind.

CHAPTER XIV

HIGH WATER AT YARDLEY

Ten years have passed away.

The sturdy little fellow in knee-trousers is a lad of seventeen, big and strong for his age;
Tod is three years older, and the two are still inseparable. The brave commander of the pirate
ship is now a full-fledged fisherman and his father's main dependence. Archie is again his
chief henchman, and the two spend many a morning in Tod's boat when the blue-fish are running.
Old Fogarty does not mind it; he rather likes it, and Mother Fogarty is always happier when
the two are together.

"If one of 'em gits overboard," she said one day to her husband, "t'other kin save him."

"Save him! Well, I guess!" he replied. "Salt water skims off Archie same's if he was a white
bellied gull; can't drown him no more'n you kin a can buoy."

The boy has never forgotten Scootsy's epithet, although he has never spoken of it to his mother--no
one knows her now by any other name. She thought the episode had passed out of his mind, but
she did not know everything that lay in the boy's heart. He and Tod had discussed it time and
again, and had wondered over his own name and that of his nameless father, as boys wonder,
but they had come to no conclusion. No one in the village could tell them, for no one ever
knew. He had asked the doctor, but had only received a curious answer.

"What difference does it make, son, when you have such a mother? You have brought her only
honor, and the world loves her the better because of you. Let it rest until she tells you;
it will only hurt her heart if you ask her now."

The doctor had already planned out the boy's future; he was to be sent to Philadelphia to study
medicine when his schooling was over, and was then to come into his office and later on succeed
to his practice.

Captain Holt would have none of it.

"He don't want to saw off no legs," the bluff old man had blurted out when he heard of it.
"He wants to git ready to take a ship 'round Cape Horn. If I had my way I'd send him some'er's
where he could learn navigation, and that's in the fo'c's'le of a merchantman. Give him a year
or two before the mast. I made that mistake with Bart--he loafed round here too long and when
he did git a chance he was too old."

Report had it that the captain was going to leave the lad his money, and had therefore a right
to speak; but no one knew. He was closer-mouthed than ever, though not so gruff and ugly as
he used to be; Archie had softened him, they said, taking the place of that boy of his he "druv
out to die a good many years ago."

Jane's mind wavered. Neither profession suited her. She would sacrifice anything she had for
the boy provided they left him with her. Philadelphia was miles away, and she would see him
but seldom. The sea she shrank from and dreaded. She had crossed it twice, and both times with
an aching heart. She feared, too, its treachery and cruelty. The waves that curled and died
on Barnegat beach--messengers from across the sea--brought only tidings fraught with suffering.

Archie had no preferences--none yet. His future was too far off to trouble him much. Nor did
anything else worry him.

One warm September day Archie turned into Yardley gate, his so'wester still on his head framing
his handsome, rosy face; his loose jacket open at the throat, the tarpaulins over his arm.
He had been outside the inlet with Tod--since daybreak, in fact--fishing for bass and weakfish.

Jane had been waiting for him for hours. She held an open letter in her hand, and her face
was happier, Archie thought as he approached her, than he had seen it for months.

There are times in all lives when suddenly and without warning, those who have been growing
quietly by our side impress their new development upon us. We look at them in full assurance
that the timid glance of the child will be returned, and are astounded to find instead the
calm gaze of the man; or we stretch out our hand to help the faltering step and touch a muscle
that could lead a host. Such changes are like the breaking of the dawn; so gradual has been
their coming that the full sun of maturity is up and away flooding the world with beauty and
light before we can recall the degrees by which it rose.

Jane realized this--and for the first time--as she looked at Archie swinging through the gate,
waving his hat as he strode toward her. She saw that the sailor had begun to assert itself.
He walked with an easy swing, his broad shoulders--almost as broad as the captain's and twice
as hard--thrown back, his head up, his blue eyes and white teeth laughing out of a face brown
and ruddy with the sun and wind, his throat and neck bare except for the silk handkerchief--one
of Tod's--wound loosely about it; a man really, strong and tough, with hard sinews and capable
thighs, back, and wrists--the kind of sailorman that could wear tarpaulins or broadcloth at
his pleasure and never lose place in either station.

In this rude awakening Jane's heart-strings tightened. She became suddenly conscious that the
Cobden look had faded out of him; Lucy's eyes and hair were his, and so was her rounded chin,
with its dimple, but there was nothing else about him that recalled either her own father or
any other Cobden she remembered. As he came near enough for her to look into his eyes she began
to wonder how he would impress Lucy, what side of his nature would she love best--his courage
and strength or his tenderness?

The sound of his voice shouting her name recalled her to herself, and a thrill of pride illumined
her happy face like a burst of sunlight as he tossed his tarpaulins on the grass and put his
strong arms about her.

"Mother, dear! forty black bass, eleven weakfish, and half a barrel of small fry--what do you
think of that?"

"Splendid, Archie. Tod must be proud as a peacock. But look at this!" and she held up the letter.
"Who do you think it's from? Guess now," and she locked one arm through his, and the two strolled
back to the house.

"Guess now!" she repeated, holding the letter behind her back. The two were often like lovers
together.

"Let me see," he coaxed. "What kind of a stamp has it got?"

"Never you mind about the stamp."

"Uncle John--and it's about my going to Philadelphia."

Jane laughed. "Uncle John never saw it."

"Then it's from--Oh, you tell me, mother!"

"No--guess. Think of everybody you ever heard of. Those you have seen and those you--"

"Oh, I know--Aunt Lucy."

"Yes, and she's coming home. Home, Archie, think of it, after all these years!"

"Well, that's bully! She won't know me, will she? I never saw her, did I?"

"Yes, when you were a little fellow." It was difficult to keep the tremor out of her voice.

"Will she bring any dukes and high daddies with her?"

"No," laughed Jane, "only her little daughter Ellen, the sweetest little girl you ever saw,
she writes."

"How old is she?"

He had slipped his arm around his mother's waist now and the two were "toeing it" up the path,
he stopping every few feet to root a pebble from its bed. The coming of the aunt was not a
great event in his life.

"Just seven her last birthday."

"All right, she's big enough. We'll take her out and teach her to fish. Hello, granny!" and
the boy loosened his arm as he darted up the steps toward Martha. "Got the finest mess of fish
coming up here in a little while you ever laid your eyes on," he shouted, catching the old
nurse's cap from her head and clapping it upon his own, roaring with laughter, as he fled in
the direction of the kitchen.

Jane joined in the merriment and, moving a chair from the hall, took her seat on the porch
to await the boy's return. She was too happy to busy herself about the house or to think of
any of her outside duties. Doctor John would not be in until the afternoon, and so she would
occupy herself in thinking out plans to make her sister's home-coming a joyous one.

As she looked down over the garden as far as the two big gate-posts standing like grim sentinels
beneath the wide branches of the hemlocks, and saw how few changes had taken place in the old
home since her girl sister had left it, her heart thrilled with joy. Nothing really was different;
the same mass of tangled rose-vines climbed over the porch--now quite to the top of the big
roof, but still the same dear old vines that Lucy had loved in her childhood; the same honeysuckle
hid the posts; the same box bordered the paths. The house was just as she left it; her bedroom
had really never been touched. What few changes had taken place she would not miss. Meg would
not run out to meet her, and Rex was under a stone that the doctor had placed over his grave;
nor would Ann Gossaway peer out of her eyrie of a window and follow her with her eyes as she
drove by; her tongue was quiet at last, and she and her old mother lay side by side in the
graveyard. Doctor John had exhausted his skill upon them both, and Martha, who had forgiven
her enemy, had sat by her bedside until the end, but nothing had availed. Mrs. Cavendish was
dead, of course, but she did not think Lucy would care very much. She and Doctor John had nursed
her for months until the end came, and had then laid her away near the apple-trees she was
so fond of. But most of the faithful hearts who had loved her were still beating, and all were
ready with a hearty welcome.

Archie was the one thing new--new to Lucy. And yet she had no fear either for him or for Lucy.
When she saw him she would love him, and when she had known him a week she would never be separated
from him again. The long absence could not have wiped out all remembrance of the boy, nor would
the new child crowd him from her heart.

When Doctor John sprang from his gig (the custom of his daily visits had never been broken)
she could hardly wait until he tied his horse--poor Bess had long since given out--to tell
him the joyful news.

He listened gravely, his face lighting up at her happiness. He was glad for Jane and said so
frankly, but the situation did not please him. He at heart really dreaded the effect of Lucy's
companionship on the woman he loved. Although it had been years since he had seen her, he had
followed her career, especially since her marriage, with the greatest interest and with the
closest attention. He had never forgotten, nor had he forgiven her long silence of two years
after her marriage, during which time she had never written Jane a line, nor had he ever ceased
to remember Jane's unhappiness over it. Jane had explained it all to him on the ground that
Lucy was offended because she had opposed the marriage, but the doctor knew differently. Nor
had he ceased to remember the other letters which followed, and how true a story they told
of Lucy's daily life and ambitions. He could almost recall the wording of one of them. "My
husband is too ill," it had said, "to go south with me, and so I will run down to Rome for
a month or so, for I really need the change." And a later one, written since his death, in
which she wrote of her winter in Paris and at Monte Carlo, and "how good my mother-in-law is
to take care of Ellen." This last letter to her sister, just received--the one he then held
in his hand, and which gave Jane such joy, and which he was then reading as carefully as if
it had been a prescription--was to his analytical mind like all the rest of its predecessors.
One sentence sent a slight curl to his lips. "I cannot stay away any longer from my precious
sister," it said, "and am coming back to the home I adore. I have no one to love me, now that
my dear husband is dead, but you and my darling Ellen."

The news of Lucy's expected return spread rapidly. Old Martha in her joy was the mouthpiece.
She gave the details out at church the Sunday morning following the arrival of Lucy's letter.
She was almost too ill to venture out, but she made the effort, stopping the worshippers as
they came down the board walk; telling each one of the good news, the tears streaming down
her face. To the children and the younger generation the announcement made but little difference;
some of them had never heard that Miss Jane had a sister, and others only that she lived abroad.
Their mothers knew, of course, and so did the older men, and all were pleased over the news.
Those of them who remembered the happy, joyous girl with her merry eyes and ringing laugh were
ready to give her a hearty welcome; they felt complimented that the distinguished lady--fifteen
years' residence abroad and a rich husband had gained her this position--should be willing
to exchange the great Paris for the simple life of Warehold. It touched their civic pride.

Great preparations were accordingly made. Billy Tatham's successor (his son)--in his best open
carriage--was drawn up at the station, and Lucy's drive through the village with some of her
numerous boxes covered with foreign labels piled on the seat beside the young man--who insisted
on driving Lucy and the child himself--was more like the arrival of a princess revisiting her
estates than anything else. Martha and Archie and Jane filled the carriage, with little Ellen
on Archie's lap, and more than one neighbor ran out of the house and waved to them as they
drove through the long village street and turned into the gate.

Archie threw his arms around Lucy when he saw her, and in his open, impetuous way called her
his "dear aunty," telling her how glad he was that she had come to keep his good mother from
getting so sad at times, and adding that she and granny had not slept for days before she came,
so eager were they to see her. And Lucy kissed him in return, but with a different throb at
her heart. She felt a thrill when she saw how handsome and strong he was, and for an instant
there flashed through her a feeling of pride that he was her own flesh and blood. Then there
had come a sudden revulsion, strangling every emotion but the one of aversion--an aversion
so overpowering that she turned suddenly and catching Ellen in her arms kissed her with so
lavish a display of affection that those at the station who witnessed the episode had only
praise for the mother's devotion. Jane saw the kiss Lucy had given Archie, and a cry of joy
welled up in her heart, but she lost the shadow that followed. My lady of Paris was too tactful
for that.

Her old room was all ready. Jane, with Martha helping, had spent days in its preparation. White
dimity curtains starched stiff as a petticoat had been hung at the windows; a new lace cover
spread on the little mahogany, brass-mounted dressing-table--her great grandmother's, in fact--with
its tiny swinging mirror and the two drawers (Martha remembered when her bairn was just high
enough to look into the mirror), and pots of fresh flowers placed on the long table on which
her hooks used to rest. Two easy-chairs had also been brought up from the sitting-room below,
covered with new chintz and tied with blue ribbons, and, more wonderful still, a candle-box
had been covered with cretonne and studded with brass tacks by the aid of Martha's stiff fingers
that her bairn might have a place in which to put her dainty shoes and slippers.

When the trunks had been carried upstairs and Martha with her own hands had opened my lady's
gorgeous blue morocco dressing-case with its bottles capped with gold and its brushes and fittings
emblazoned with cupids swinging in garlands of roses, the poor woman's astonishment knew no
bounds. The many scents and perfumes, the dainty boxes, big and little, holding various powders--one
a red paste which the old nurse thought must be a salve, but about which, it is needless to
say, she was greatly mistaken--as well as a rabbit's foot smirched with rouge (this she determined
to wash at once), and a tiny box of court-plaster cut in half moons. So many things, in fact,
did the dear old nurse pull from this wonderful bag that the modest little bureau could not
hold half of them, and the big table had to be brought up and swept of its plants and belongings.

The various cosmetics and their uses were especial objects of comment.

"Did ye break one of the bottles, darlin'?" she asked, sniffing at a peculiar perfume which
seemed to permeate everything. "Some of 'em must have smashed; it's awful strong everywhere--smell
that"--and she held out a bit of lace which she had taken from the case, a dressing-sacque
that Lucy had used on the steamer.

Lucy laughed. "And you don't like it? How funny, you dear old thing! That was made specially
for me; no one else in Paris has a drop."

And then the dresses! Particularly the one she was to wear the first night--a dress flounced
and furbelowed and of a creamy white (she still wore mourning--delicate purples shading to
white--the exact tone for a husband six months dead). And the filmy dressing-gowns, and, more
wonderful than all, the puff of smoke she was to sleep in, held together by a band of violet
ribbon; to say nothing of the dainty slippers bound about with swan's-down, and the marvellous
hats, endless silk stockings of mauve, white, and black, and long and short gloves. In all
her life Martha had never seen or heard of such things. The room was filled with them and the
two big closets crammed to overflowing, and yet a dozen trunks were not yet unpacked, including
the two small boxes holding little Ellen's clothes.

The night was one long to be remembered. Everyone said the Manor House had not been so gay
for years. And they were all there--all her old friends and many of Jane's new ones, who for
years had looked on Lucy as one too far above them in station to be spoken of except with bated
breath.

The intimates of the house came early. Doctor John first, with his grave manner and low voice--so
perfectly dressed and quiet: Lucy thought she had never seen his equal in bearing and demeanor,
nor one so distinguished-looking--not in any circle in Europe; and Uncle Ephraim, grown fat
and gouty, leaning on a cane, but still hearty and wholesome, and overjoyed to see her; and
Pastor Dellenbaugh--his hair was snow-white now--and his complacent and unruffled wife; and
the others, including Captain Holt, who came in late. It was almost a repetition of that other
home-coming years before, when they had gathered to greet her, then a happy, joyous girl just
out of school.

Lucy in their honor wore the dress that had so astonished Martha, and a diamond-studded ornament
which she took from her jewel-case and fastened in her hair. The dress followed the wonderful
curves of her beautiful body in all its dimpled plumpness and the jewel set off to perfection
the fresh, oval face, laughing blue eyes--wet forget-me-nots were the nearest their color--piquant,
upturned nose and saucy mouth. The color of the gown, too, harmonized both with the delicate
pink of her cheeks and with the tones of her rather too full throat showing above the string
of pearls that clasped it.

Jane wore a simple gray silk gown which followed closely the slender and almost attenuated
lines of her figure. This gown the doctor always loved because, as he told her, it expressed
so perfectly the simplicity of her mind and life. Her only jewels were her deep, thoughtful
eyes, and these, to-night, were brilliant with joy over her sister's return.

As Jane moved about welcoming her guests the doctor, whose eyes rarely left her face, became
conscious that at no time in their lives had the contrast between the two sisters been greater.

One, a butterfly of thirty-eight, living only in the glow of the sunlight, radiant in plumage,
alighting first on one flower and then on another, but always on flowers, never on weeds; gathering
such honey as suited her taste; never resting where she might by any chance be compelled to
use her feet, but always poised in air; a woman, rich, brilliant, and beautiful, and--here
was the key-note of her life--always, year in and year out, warmed by somebody's admiration,
whose she didn't much mind nor care, so that it gratified her pride and relieved her of ennui.
The other--and this one he loved with his whole soul--a woman of forty-six, with a profound
belief in her creeds; quixotic sometimes in her standards, but always sincere; devoted to her
traditions, to her friends and to her duty; unselfish, tender-hearted, and self-sacrificing;
whose feet, though often tired and bleeding, had always trodden the earth.

As Lucy greeted first one neighbor and then another, sometimes with one hand, sometimes with
two, offering her cheek now and then to some old friend who had known her as a child, Jane's
heart swelled with something of the pride she used to have when Lucy was a girl. Her beautiful
sister, she saw, had lost none of the graciousness of her old manner, nor of her tact in making
her guests feel perfectly at home. Jane noticed, too--and this was new to her--a certain well-bred
condescension, so delicately managed as never to be offensive--more the air of a woman accustomed
to many sorts and conditions of men and women, and who chose to be agreeable as much to please
herself as to please her guests.

And yet with all this poise of manner and condescending graciousness, there would now and then
dart from Lucy's eyes a quick, searching glance of inquiry, as she tried to read her guests'
thoughts, followed by a relieved look on her own face as she satisfied herself that no whisper
of her past had ever reached them. These glances Jane never caught.

Doctor John was most cordial in his greeting and talked to her a long time about some portions
of Europe, particularly a certain cafe in Dresden where he used to dine, and another in Paris
frequented by the beau monde. She answered him quite frankly, telling him of some of her own
experiences in both places, quite forgetting that she was giving him glimpses of her own life
while away--glimpses which she had kept carefully concealed from Jane or Martha. She was conscious,
however, after he had left her of a certain uncomfortable feeling quivering through her as
his clear, steadfast eyes looked into hers, he listened, and yet she thought she detected his
brain working behind his steadfast gaze. It was as if he was searching for some hidden disease.
"He knows something," she said to herself, when the doctor moved to let someone else take his
place. "How much I can't tell. I'll get it all out of sister."

Blunt and bluff Captain Holt, white-whiskered and white-haired now, but strong and hearty,
gave her another and a different shock. What his first words would be when they met and how
she would avoid discussing the subject uppermost in their minds if, in his rough way, he insisted
on talking about it, was one of the things that had worried her greatly when she decided to
come home, for there was never any doubt in her mind as to his knowledge. But she misjudged
the captain, as had a great many others who never looked beneath the rugged bark covering his
heart of oak.

"I'm glad you've come at last," he said gravely, hardly touching her hand in welcome, "you
ought to have been here before. Jane's got a fine lad of her own that she's bringin' up; when
you know him ye'll like him."

She did not look at him when she answered, but a certain feeling of relief crept over her.
She saw that the captain had buried the past and intended never to revive it.

The stern look on his face only gave way when little Ellen came to him of her own accord and
climbing up into his lap said in her broken English that she heard he was a great captain and
that she wanted him to tell her some stories like her good papa used to tell her. "He was gray
like you," she said, "and big," and she measured the size with her plump little arms that showed
out of her dainty French dress.

With Doctor John and Captain Holt out of the way Lucy's mind was at rest. "Nobody else round
about Yardley except these two knows," she kept saying to herself with a bound of relief, "and
for these I don't care. The doctor is Jane's slave, and the captain is evidently wise enough
not to uncover skeletons locked up in his own closet."

