I. MOTHERLESS
   II. LITTLE MEG AS A MOURNER
  III. LITTLE MEG'S CLEANING DAY
   IV. LITTLE MEG'S TREAT TO HER CHILDREN
    V. LITTLE MEG'S NEIGHBOUR
   VI. LITTLE MEG'S LAST MONEY
  VII. LITTLE MEG'S DISAPPOINTMENT
 VIII. LITTLE MEG'S RED FROCK IN PAWN
   IX. LITTLE MEG'S FRIENDS IN NEED
    X. LITTLE MEG AS CHARWOMAN
   XI. LITTLE MEG'S BABY
  XII. THE END OF LITTLE MEG'S TROUBLE
 XIII. LITTLE MEG'S FATHER
  XIV. LITTLE MEG'S FAREWELL

Little Meg's Children

CHAPTER I

Motherless

In the East End of London, more than a mile from St Paul's Cathedral, and lying near to the
docks, there is a tangled knot of narrow streets and lanes, crossing and running into one another,
with blind alleys and courts leading out of them, and low arched passages, and dark gullies,
and unsuspected slums, hiding away at the back of the narrowest streets; forming altogether
such a labyrinth of roads and dwellings, that one needs a guide to thread a way among them,
as upon pathless solitudes or deserts of shifting sands.  In the wider streets it is possible
for two conveyances to pass each other; for in some of them, towards the middle of their length,
a sweeping curve is taken out of the causeway on either side to allow of this being done; but
in the smaller and closer streets there is room spared only for the passage to and fro of single
carts, while here and there may be found an alley so narrow that the neighbours can shake hands,
if they would, from opposite windows.  Many of the houses are of three or four stories, with
walls, inside and out, dingy and grimed with smoke, and with windows that scarcely admit even
the gloomy light which finds a way through the thick atmosphere, and down between the high,
close buildings.

A few years ago in one of these dismal streets there stood a still more dismal yard, bearing
the name of Angel Court, as if there yet lingered among those grimy homes and their squalid
occupants some memories of a brighter place and of happier creatures.  Angel Court was about
nine feet wide, and contained ten or twelve houses on each side, with one dwelling at the further
end, blocking up the thoroughfare, and commanding a view down the close, stone-paved yard,
with its interlacing rows of clothes-lines stretched from window to window, upon which hung
the yellow, half-washed rags of the inhabitants.  This end house was three stories high, without
counting a raised roof of red tiles, forming two attics; the number of rooms in all being eight,
each one of which was held by a separate family, as were most of the other rooms in the court.
To possess two apartments was almost an undreamed-of luxury.

There was certainly an advantage in living in the attics of the end house in Angel Court, for
the air was a trifle purer there and the light clearer than in the stories below.  From the
small windows might be seen the prospect, not only of the narrow court, but of a vast extent
of roofs, with a church spire here and there, and the glow of the sky behind them, when the
sun was setting in a thick purplish cloud of smoke and fog.  There was greater quiet also,
and more privacy up in the attics than beneath, where all day long people were trampling up
and down the stairs, and past the doors of their neighbours' rooms. The steep staircase ended
in a steeper ladder leading up to the attics, and very few cared to climb up and down it. 
It was perhaps for these reasons that the wife of a sailor, who had gone to sea eight months
before, had chosen to leave a room lower down, for which he had paid the rent in advance, in
order to mount into higher and quieter quarters with her three children.

Whatever may have been her reason, it is certain that the sailor's wife, who had been ailing
before her husband's departure, had, for some weeks past, been unable to descend the steep
ladder into the maze of busy streets, to buy the articles necessary for her little household,
and that she had steadily refused all aid from her neighbours, who soon left off pressing it
upon her.  The only nurse she had, and the only person to whom she would entrust her errands,
was her eldest child, a small, spare, stunted girl of London growth, whose age could not be
more than ten years, though she wore the shrewd, anxious air of a woman upon her face, with
deep lines wrinkling her forehead and puckering about her keen eyes.  Her small bony hands
were hard with work; and when she trod to and fro about the crowded room, from the bedside
to the fireplace, or from the crazy window to the creaking door, which let the cold draughts
blow in upon the ailing mother, her step was slow and silent, less like that of a child than
of a woman who was already weary with much labour.  The room itself was not large enough to
cause a great deal of work; but little Meg had had many nights of watching lately, and her
eyes were heavy for want of sleep, with the dark circles underneath them growing darker every day.

The evening had drawn in, but Meg's mother, her head propped up with anything that could be
made into a pillow, had watched the last glow of the light behind the chimneys and the church
spires, and then she turned herself feebly towards the glimmer of a handful of coals burning
in the grate, beside which her little daughter was undressing a baby twelve months old, and
hushing it to sleep in her arms.  Another child had been put to bed already, upon a rude mattress
in a corner of the room, where she could not see him; but she watched Meg intently, with a
strange light in her dim eyes.  When the baby was asleep at last, and laid down on the mattress
upon the floor, the girl went softly back to the fire, and stood for a minute or two looking
thoughtfully at the red embers.

'Little Meg!' said her mother, in a low, yet shrill voice.

Meg stole across with a quiet step to the bedside, and fastened her eyes earnestly upon her
mother's face.

'Do you know I'm going to die soon?' asked the mother.

'Yes,' said Meg, and said no more.

'Father'll be home soon,' continued her mother, 'and I want you to take care of the children
till he comes.  I've settled with Mr Grigg downstairs as nobody shall meddle with you till
father comes back. But, Meg, you've got to take care of that your own self.  You've nothing
to do with nobody, and let nobody have nothing to do with you. They're a bad crew downstairs,
a very bad crew.  Don't you ever let any one of 'em come across the door-step.  Meg, could
you keep a secret?'

'Yes, I could,' said Meg.

'I think you could,' answered her mother, 'and I'll tell you why you mustn't have nothing to
do with the crew downstairs.  Meg, pull the big box from under the bed.'

The box lay far back, where it was well hidden by the bed; but by dint of hard pulling Meg
dragged it out, and the sailor's wife gave her the key from under her pillow.  When the lid
was open, the eyes of the dying woman rested with interest and longing upon the faded finery
it contained--the bright-coloured shawl, and showy dress, and velvet bonnet, which she used
to put on when she went to meet her husband on his return from sea.  Meg lifted them out carefully
one by one, and laid them on the bed, smoothing out the creases fondly.  There were her own
best clothes, too, and the children's; the baby's nankeen coat, and Robin's blue cap, which
never saw the light except when father was at home.  She had nearly emptied the box, when she
came upon a small but heavy packet.

'That's the secret, Meg,' said her mother in a cautious whisper. 'That's forty gold sovereigns,
as doesn't belong to me, nor father neither, but to one of his mates as left it with him for
safety.  I couldn't die easy if I thought it wouldn't be safe.  They'd go rooting about everywhere;
but, Meg, you must never, never, never let anybody come into the room till father's at home.'

'I never will, mother,' said little Meg.

'That's partly why I moved up here,' she continued.  'Why, they'd murder you all if they couldn't
get the money without.  Always keep the door locked, whether you're in or out; and, Meg dear,
I've made you a little bag to wear round your neck, to keep the key of the box in, and all
the money I've got left; it'll be enough till father comes.  And if anybody meddles, and asks
you when he's coming, be sure say you expect him home to-day or to-morrow.  He'll be here in
four weeks, on Robin's birthday, may be.  Do you know all you've got to do, little Meg?'

'Yes,' she answered.  'I'm to take care of the children, and the money as belongs to one of
father's mates; and I must wear the little bag round my neck, and always keep the door locked,
and tell folks I expect father home to-day or to-morrow, and never let nobody come into our room.'

'That's right,' murmured the dying woman.  'Meg, I've settled all about my burial with the
undertaker and Mr Grigg downstairs; and you'll have nothing to do but stay here till they take
me away.  If you like, you and Robin and baby may walk after me; but be sure see everybody
out, and lock the door safe afore you start.'

She lay silent for some minutes, touching one after another the clothes spread upon the bed
as Meg replaced them in the box, and then, locking it, put the key into the bag, and hung it
round her neck.

'Little Meg,' said her mother, 'do you remember one Sunday evening us hearing a sermon preached
in the streets?'

'Yes, mother,' answered Meg promptly. Shortly after taking the capital of this
rich province, ie June 15, Bolivar entered it preceded the warmest and expressive tokens of appreciation
and enthusiasm of the people of transit. From here he moved Guayaquil, where the shouts of joy
were reproduced from then to Cuenca, from which point put at the disposal of the government of
Peru is a division of 4,000 Colombians.

San Martin ran to find Bolivar, and July 25 in Guayaquil embraced two brave warriors, having started
from both ends of the New World, were to confer about the independence of his country under the burning
sun of Ecuador. Three days passed together these two American heroes, not a single moment
they saw one without the other, but the outcome of his talks remained shrouded in mystery
night. Only known that Interviews though the most attentive kingdom cordiality between them, their
separation, however, were not those that the friendship reveals the outpouring of enthusiasm
or the tenderness of a Live affection. Among the political ideas of these two eminent men stood
perhaps a high fence.

The royalists occupied at the time, not only all of Upper Peru, but also most Lower, and were
very encouraged and hopeful because of his recent triumphs. The Patriots possessed only in Lima
and the countries located on the northern coast; also were separated in different political
parties, which undermined its force base the common cause of South
America, and metal resources were not over, before the contrast, were
short.

Such was the situation of Peru from late 1822 to mid-1823.

On 8 April this year, Colombia's Congress met again, and authorized on July 4 the freedom to
pass to get their aid to Peru, the most notable event of that legislature. We know that after
the interview had called dictator of that country and the illustrious Caracas. In the course
of the same year the city was preparing Montilla Axe an expedition against Maracaibo, combined with
the effect commanded naval forces Colonel squad leader Jose Padilla, who can judge the risky
venture of force bar, an operation which was offered to fulfill and
accomplish his May 8 with only the loss General Bolivar's brig, commanded
and owned by Captain Nicolas Joly.

Once free to cross the lake, where I get to lord it in late June, and while General Francisco Esteban
Gomez, sick of Montilla, was headed against Maracaibo, Morales strengthened their squad with
two schooners that was bringing Captain Laborde Curacao. Gathered in Zapara Spanish fleet,
anchored on July 22 between Maracaibo and the island of Captain-Chico. The independents were doing
so in Altagracia Punta Piedras. Both fighters, in sight of each other, waiting for the wind to
be undertaken when patriots when they had been favorable, boarded the 24, three hours after
noon, the enemy and fight renidisimo'm locking a winner Padilla. The royalists had 800 casualties in
dead and wounded, 420 prisoners from more official kind of army and
navy.

The Patriots were 44 officers and men killed and 119 wounded.

Weapons Republican, favored for their courage and good cause, marching seeding for the way the
laurels of victory and adding one each day over the colossal stone building independence. Where
there had discouraged by their fruitless efforts the former rulers of Venezuela, ceded the
field to the brave and freedom fighters. On August 3 chapter Morales under the most generous
terms of the Republicans who doing so will be crowning glory and twelve days after the candle is
to that memorable general due to the island of Cuba. In the rest of the year Coro and Puerto Cabello,
the last bastion of Spanish domination in Venezuela, also fell into the hands of the brave
and meritorious children of the New World, whose heroic came spilling
blood for so many years, and finally to leave the 1823, could exclaim,
waving the flag of Colombia: "We are already free."

CHAPTER XI

Bolivar in Lima .-- The public spirit in Peru .-- Lost. - Dissolution of Congress .-- The Libertador
organized a major expedition .-- Passage of the gorges of the Andes .-- Victoria Junin Colombians in
the Troops .-- .-- Break Spanish. - Combinations Bolivar .-- strategic directs the High Battle of Ayacucho
Peru .-- .-- .-- Entry Capitulaciones Bolivar in Lima .-- Call for a reunion of Congress .--
The .-- reunion and actions Republic Surrender of Callao Bolivar .-- .-- Emancipation of South
America made Considerations .-- .-- Principia to disturbed the order
among Venezuelans decreed against Paez Deposition .-- .-- Revolt of
Valencia. - Assembly .-- parties caused by the Federalists of Caracas.
- Bolivar is heading to Venezuela .-- Proclamation given in Maracaibo.
- Events of Peru.

The 1 deg. September, 1825 had made its entry into the liberator Lima, where he was sworn in dictatorial
power, with authorization to dispose of all resources of the country; but given the opposition of some
political parties, and realizing that the elements solvents that undermined its noble undertaking
would not be possible to reach the end which had proposed Trujillo
retired.

Thus abandoning the capital, was soon occupied by the royal troops Canterac under General.

In early 1824 the state of the cause of independence was pitiful in Peru and marched despondently
to ruin. Missed the February 5 strengths of Callao, was dissolved Congress, putting in Bolivar
hope of their salvation. The illustrious leader Colombian even if it were not for their ardent
love for the cause of freedom of South America, I could not watch with indifference the dangers
that would come to threaten the work done by the up there if the arms enthrone Spanish arrived
in Peru, and when he received the sad news was the latest disaster in the province of organizing
troops Huamalies and waiting for reinforcements from their republic to continue operations at
its own risk may oppose in a little to the misfortunes that occurred
an army of 4,000 patriots country and 6,000 Colombians.

Then crossed the passes of the Andes, while those of Jauja Canterac garrisoned and placed their
outposts in Houses, and marched resolutely on Pasco. The Spanish general, who know the direction
followed by its opposite, is heading the same point in order recognition practice. Here he learned
that on August 5 had been taking for Bolivar the right of Lake Junin, and fell in the act to
hinder the enemy forces came to be at your back. By practicing this movement, and have three
days undertaken, Canterac was hit by Bolivar and the royalists suffered
a major defeat in Or Pampa Junin de los Reyes.

The winners Canterac followed in pursuit of that, on and in good order, was retiring to Tarma, Jauja,
Huancayo and Huamanga, and arrived at Cuzco with a loss more than 2,000 men. The liberating
army Huamanga not pass until after he had rested there for about a month, at which time, as he
had his boss, General Sucre was to Challuanca go on to threaten the enemy's rear, while he
practiced a recognition of the Apurimac, operation in which the winter came to surprise suspended
and that after this debian verified. Bolivar then moved by powerful causes, he separated from
his army, leaving him in winter quarters, and headed the Alto Peru in order to prepare the necessary
means to close the hood and at the same time to organize good governance
in that country.

Later, on December 9, the troops were crowned with laurel Sucre in Ayacucho, reaching a decisive
victory over Spanish arms, commanded by Laserna, then viceroy of Peru. A nearly 9,500 men ascended
the viceroy's forces, while not arriving at 6,000 the general command of the republic, but well
combined and skillfully directed the plan battle, the royalists were completely undone, remained
in the hands of Sucre, in addition de Laserna, 15 generals, 16 colonels, 68 lieutenant colonels,
484 officers, 3,200 soldiers, corporals and sergeants, 11 pieces of artillery, a large number of
rifles, ammunition and finally, all the military equipment belonging
to the enemy, who had been placed in the case of surrender by capitulation.

On

this memorable day, the brightest of which took place in South America, with the head that reached
heroically distinguished Jose Maria Cordoba, English Miller and Gen. Lamar. According to the foundations
of the Spanish capitulation was forced to surrender countries still dominated by them in the
Upper and Lower Peru and the victors to spare the lives and property of the vanquished and their
supporters, paying also travel to the peninsula Army individuals who request them. The immortalized
the Battle of Ayacucho name of the brave son of Cumana, as good a patriot as a virtuous citizen,
as skilled as noble general.

The next day the battle Bolivar Lima and expedia entered a decree which summoned a congress on 10 February
next year. After that date, and already met the first acts of this body were directed to express
in a solemn manner his gratitude to the liberators of the country, ordered it opened a medal
in honor of the Liberator and the Lima's main square was erected a statue. You made the present
of two million pesos, for one it circulated among the generals and other military classes,
reserving the other for himself, which he refused with dignity, and distinguished himself while General
Sucre the title of Marshal of Ayacucho. After Bolivar conferred on the executive, and he asked
Colombia permission to accept it, because, according to his words on this occasion, he recognized
monstrous that the authority and improper.

Republic under the name of Bolivar (Bolivia later), constituted by a General Assembly, declaring
independence in the provinces of Upper Peru to July 10 the same year 1825 and entrusted the executive
authority Libertador around the time of stay in the territory of the State, and Sucre is charged
with the immediate command of the that departments that had been divided. Three months is not
complete, that is, 6 October, after having instructed the Liberator, which formed a political
constitution for the country, disbanded the Assembly, postponing the constitutional body reunion,
reunion which was to be held on May 25 of next year.

Despite the efforts made by supporters of independence, General Rodil, refugee in Callao, held
for over a year this place, finally surrendered on 23 January 1826, the day that Peru, as
a result of this event was totally emancipated from Spain and South America saw the completion
of the long and bloody struggle started and carried to a successful conclusion by the brave sons
of Venezuela, under the direction glorious the celebrated Bolivar.

But the Colombian people, like all people placed in analogous circumstances While yielding to a natural
impulse, had displayed all his strength to throw off the yoke of slavery, not even willing to
receive the new form of government, unenlightened to find ways to take advantage of the freedom
they had conquered, and not understanding the value of the duties to acquire new rights acquired,
soon became involved in civil strife not willingly given them. Resisting the Caracas the third
invitation made by Paez, who wanted to implement the decree on the organization militia, was
the chief forced to do some prisons, and on that occasion Caracas presented 17 days prior to the seizure
of Callao the image of a terrible revolution.

Pretext of having been trampled people's rights in the way of implementing government decrees,
the House of Representatives Paez fulminated against an accusation, March 30 in the Senate admitted,
suspended from his job and to realize quoting of their behavior. Disobeyed the order not only
transmitted by the executive, but that provision of the Municipal Assembly of Valencia, whose
city was Paez then April 30, retook the Senate that he had separated, resulting in the fact to believe
all people are entitled to ignore the legitimate government, and soon Republic was embroiled
in civil strife.

There were two sides who were raised: one federal and one central, with supporters first system
who marched to an end with more unity, more perfect harmony. The Federalists stirred Paez Caracas
to convene and chair an Assembly general in order to determine the political destiny of Venezuela
in the circumstances, and verified the reunion on November 7, after violent debates and an
unspeakable vote, Paez is authorized, pursuant to the powers that the Assembly had invested, pointing
issued a decree on December 10 for the reunion of polling stations and the installation of fixed
Valencia constituent body as day of January 1827.

Bolivar, news of the scandals promoted in Venezuela, departed from Lima on September 4 and forty
days later went into Santa Fe de Bogota, and was received with general samples affection. On November
25, headed to Venezuela and during his journey to Cucuta was massing troops to perform with
impressive attitude. On 16 the following month gave a proclamation from Maracaibo that, offering
high speed National Convention to legally people had the basic laws, he said: only the (people)
know her well and is owner their fate, not a powerful nor a party, not a single fraction from
the same village. The Liberator which returned some of the patricians lost, I arrive at Puerto-Cabello
Choir last day of the year, a time when Paez was in Valencia.

The events of Peru as the course of the year that were expiring so: the reunion Bolivia's Constituent
Congress, which accepted the draft Thin variants that Bolivar had sent, accompanied by the
recognition of that republic by the Council Peru's government, the appointment of General Sucre
as Life President of the State dignity that only admitted for two years, the declaration of
nullity of the powers conferred by schools in some provinces to their representatives, made
by the Governing Council Peruvian Congress in its first constitutional dissolution of this, the
school reunion election in the province of Lima, by decree of the competent authority, 16 August,
the acceptance that it made the Bolivian Constitution as fundamental Code Peru, and Bolivar's
appointment to president in perpetuity of the Republic, acts punishable by the Governing Council,
in view of unanimity had simply to have polling stations proceeded in all its agreements.

CHAPTER XII

Conciliatory provisions .-- Bolivar and Paez reconcile political failure .-- .-- Claims New-Granada
and Peru .-- Resignation of the Liberator to the fifth Congress meeting in Bogota .-- No his resignation
is accepted .-- factions are raised in Venezuela .-- The Constituent Congress Peru .-- political
unrest and disunity of Colombia. - Fail the Convention of Ocana Act .-- June 15, 1828. - Conspiracy
to armed .-- .-- Hazard Libertador Justice Act against the conspirators .-- New convening a Constituent
Congress .-- spade work of the discontented .-- Bolivar Manifesto .-- .-- Consequences of the
manifest is called the Libertador by some members of Congress of Colombia .-- .-- Punishment
of the Political Code Cessation of the dictatorship and the representation of Colombia .-- Journey
to Cartagena Bolivar .-- Decrees Paez .-- Congress in Valencia Installing New Constitution of Venezuela
.-- Death .-- del Libertador.

The year 1827 was opened by the Libertador in a manner and conciliatory policy. The first that
day from Puerto Cabello published an amnesty decree, confirming the authority Paez of civil and military
chief at the beginning of the revolution had been given by councils municipal. This dictated the following
other decree by which he recognized and sent acknowledge Bolivar as President of the Republic,
at the same time canceling all its previous resolutions, including that of reunion of a Congress. 4, at
two in the afternoon, both leaders had been and embraced at the foot of the hill Naguanagua, and
fit together in Valencia amid the acclamations enthusiastic people, and 10 of the same month across
Caracas melted in terms of greatest admiration to host on its campus to its illustrious son,
the liberator of America del Sud

The excessive love of this great man for the cause he had so nobly defended constant, strong desire
to consolidate it shook his great work, I made a mistake, excusable this point of view. But? Who
felt that felt like, who he saw that as as rebels surrounded circumstances when looked just the
first dawn of freedom of his country, who found that as the threat of being wrapped in the
shadows of a devastating storm at the moment of birth, had not tried to avoid at all coast of
the sad consequences that would result from disunion among the political elements which were
to be so strongly supported? This was no doubt what he did flatter the dissidents, which forced
him to put his unbridled ambition and desire to control, producing among his friends discontent
and envy. iAmigos! ... iQue pitiful abuse has been made This beautiful phrase, used without
reason rather than to be followers of those men who and Bolivar, come to have in their hands
the destiny of a nation!

In New Granada, as well as in Peru, many representations they directed the military failing
government reforms in the primitive law of the State, and, after so many great sacrifices,
after so much bloodshed and so precious for the sake of country, narrow interests, selfish view
domain, envy and resentment wrong tablets Tempers flare and ranks first in the most unjust war
the human race is between iniquity of the war itself, which the genius of evil awakens and
keeps the heart than you should join the fraternal bond of custom, language, country and family.
So, unfortunately, the triumph of independence was followed by the civil strife in America del Sud,
bitter and overwrought by measures whose spirit, whose purpose was none other than conciliation,
the welfare and strength. But man proposes and God disposes.

To the fifth congress, held in Bogota, Bolivar resigned his position as President, and then lengthy
and heated debate, by 50 votes to 24, went unheeded. This resignation was made from his hometown,
in view of the refusal, on 10 September step Bogota, vowing again before the Congress, meeting in extraordinary
session effect, and to uphold and defend there the Constitution of the Republic. In Venezuela
meanwhile had risen factions that, like Cisneros in Caracas, brought devastation everywhere.

The Constituent Congress of Peru had been met, prior to the events lately cited by 1 deg. May,
and declare that the Constitution sworn in on December 9th of the year was above zero and
with no effect, being punished by illegal and threatening the sovereignty of the people provisionally
restoring force and effect with suppression some chapters, meantime the Legislature was concerned
with forming a new one, that permitted and voted in 1823. Don Jose de Lamar, Grand Marshall, and
Don Manuel Salazar and were Barquijano elected, the first and the second as President and Vice-President
of the Republic. Such were the most notable or important in South America this year.

In 1828, following two major parties were stirred in the heart of Colombia. Those who aspired to
the best of faith in the world to make liberal changes in the law fundamental - which means,
in the eyes of his rivals, was the most on purpose to overthrow the Libertador, as well as
for those who wanted to divide the territory into three Colombian different states independent
of each other - were the first of these games. In the second Most were members of the generals,
commanders and Venezuelan officials, but all foreigners who remained in the service of Colombia
and the relatives and friends of Bolivar, that strove to uphold the integrity of the republic
created by the union of Venezuela, Quito and New Grenada. This was precisely the division attempted
by the faction contrary.

After having failed the National Convention held in Ocana on April 9 due to the findings of opinions
and political principles represented there, a gathering of people notables, formed in Bogota, signed
on June 13 an act in which they made solemn protest against any reform emanating from the Convention,
depositing the highest office of the Republic and his entire confidence in Gen. Bolivar, example
was later imitated and followed throughout latitude for the other races.


They did not make very rapid progress, for they stopped to look in at many shop windows, especially
where there were baby-clothes for sale, or where there were waxen figures of little boys, life-size,
dressed in the newest fashions, with large eyes of glass beads, not unlike Robin's own black
ones.  The passage of the crossings was also long and perilous.  Meg ran first with the baby,
and put her down safely on the other side in some corner of a doorway; then with a sinking
and troubled heart, least any evil person should pick her up, and run away with her as a priceless
treasure, she returned for Robin.  In this way she got over several crossings, until they reached
the bottom of Ludgate Hill, where she stood shivering and doubting for a long time, till she
fairly made up her mind to speak to the majestic policeman looking on calmly at the tumult
about him.

'Oh, if you please, Mr Police,' said Meg, in a plaintive voice, 'I want to get these two little
children over to the other side, and I don't know how to do it, except you'd please to hold
baby while I take Robbie across.'

The policeman looked down from his great height, without bending his stiff neck, upon the childish
creature who spoke to him, and Meg's spirit sank with the fear of being ordered back again. JAPANESE
       FAIRY TALES. A TRAGIC
        DRAMA.

Not all flowers are fresh and beautiful, also there are withered and ugly. Do not blame me, therefore,
presumably, if a figure of speech valiéndome call my poor flowers withered ingenuity to the stories
that follow. And if they are flowers and add that no connection each other and I the get together
with them haphazardly to form a cluster or bundle. Sea this brief prologue tape or tie the tie,
so that each of flowers will not be by his side.

Not I who should praise them. The kind reader will decide if they're worth anything or worth nothing.
I say just to procure the indulgence of even the most severe, that my purpose in writing and by
gathering the stories is as modest as innocent. I do not propose to teach anything, or moralize,
or prove thesis, or to solve problems, not blame and customs services.

The only thing I set out to write such stories is distracted or have fun in almost forced my retirement
old age and my infirmities condemn me.

I will not deny me that I had fun writing stories, but I keep it to infer and hence can be sure
that he is also fun to read. The stories, however, aspire not only to entertain. If you are not amused,
criticism can not and should go beyond to the point of calling them annoying, and instead, if anything
fun or entertaining, its purpose and aims are met. They are neither do I want to be but a
mere hobby work, when read with, without the slightest offense against God or neighbor, to achieve
the unemployed entertainment for several hours. Those who want to
learn something, have plenty of books to go.

To find religion read the names of Christ, to know moral, read the Guide sinners and to know
philosophy, which is publishing the Father Urraburu in many and very thick volumes.

This is not intended nor librejo deeply touch the hearts of readers. The muse has inspired me (assuming
also that there has been muse) has not been sad or tragic, but joyful and happy, as suited
to console of my real punishment and not to aggravate weight with other penalties imaginary.
Moreover, I believe and have always believed that all production artistic or literary means
good humor and not despondency and distress. Even when a poet or a novelist by author events
takes more pitiful, it is important that the shame and Despite have
dissipated almost completely, so that the matter was in the subject
and that plagued the subject, get out of it, and he calmly contemplate
and be the object or the first material with which he composes or
constructs his work, carving and polishing.

Everyone has their way of doing things. I do not have to make rules and I argue about this.
I will just say I do not understand that overcome with deep grief begins to sing or write about
the pain overwhelms him. The death of a loved one, the misfortunes of country, the tremendous
struggle and the terrible hardships that often afflict the human race All this, when it comes
to become subject to it when our literary creations and unless it hurts, because if we hurt,
we would not write, but would try to remedy the practical means bad,
or you cry, report and ineffably and without literature, if not acertásemos
to address it.

'Look, Meg,' he whispered.

He pointed to a seat not far from them, where sat a lady, in a bright silk dress, and a velvet
bonnet with a long rich feather across it. There were two children with her, a girl of Meg's
age, and a boy about as big as Robin, dressed like a little Highlander, with a kilt of many
colours, and a silver-mounted pouch, and a dirk, which he was brandishing about before his
mother, who looked on, laughing fondly and proudly at her boy.  Meg gazed, too, until she heard
Robin sob, and turning quickly to him, she saw the tears rolling quickly down his sorrowful
face.  'Nobody laughs to me, Meg,' said Robin.

'Oh yes, Robbie, I laugh to you,' cried Meg; 'and father 'll laugh when he comes home to-morrow;
and maybe God laughs to us, only we can't see His face.'

'I'd like to go home,' sobbed Robin; and Meg took her baby upon her tired arm, and turned her
steps eastward once more. The first line of Urdaneta
was commanded by Republicans, while the Liberator, Ribas, Marino and other heads operating in
the second. The total force amounted to about 5,200 men, the enemy had more than 6,000 online.
  'Are you going my way?'

He pointed his whip towards St Paul's, and Meg nodded, for her voice could not have reached
him through the din.

