In education, then, this is the question of questions, which it is high time we discussed in
some methodic way. The first in importance, though the last to be considered, is the problem--how
to decide among the conflicting claims of various subjects on our attention. Before there can
be a rational curriculum, we must settle which things it most concerns us to know; or, to use
a word of Bacon's, now unfortunately obsolete--we must determine the relative values of knowledges.

       *       *       *       *       *

To this end, a measure of value is the first requisite. And happily, respecting the true measure
of value, as expressed in general terms, there can be no dispute. Every one in contending for
the worth of any particular order of information, does so by showing its bearing upon some
part of life. In reply to the question--"Of what use is it?" the mathematician, linguist, naturalist,
or philosopher, explains the way in which his learning beneficially influences action--saves
from evil or secures good--conduces to happiness. When the teacher of writing has pointed out
how great an aid writing is to success in business--that is, to the obtainment of sustenance--that
is, to satisfactory living; he is held to have proved his case. And when the collector of dead
facts (say a numismatist) fails to make clear any appreciable effects which these facts can
produce on human welfare, he is obliged to admit that they are comparatively valueless. All
then, either directly or by implication, appeal to this as the ultimate test.

How to live?--that is the essential question for us. Not how to live in the mere material sense
only, but in the widest sense. The general problem which comprehends every special problem
is--the right ruling of conduct in all directions under all circumstances. In what way to treat
the body; in what way to treat the mind; in what way to manage our affairs; in what way to
bring up a family; in what way to behave as a citizen; in what way to utilise those sources
of happiness which nature supplies--how to use all our faculties to the greatest advantage
of ourselves and others--how to live completely? And this being the great thing needful for
us to learn, is, by consequence, the great thing which education has to teach. To prepare us
for complete living is the function which education has to discharge; and the only rational
mode of judging of an educational course is, to judge in what degree it discharges such function.

This test, never used in its entirety, but rarely even partially used, and used then in a vague,
half conscious way, has to be applied consciously, methodically, and throughout all cases.
It behoves us to set before ourselves, and ever to keep clearly in view, complete living as
the end to be achieved; so that in bringing up our children we may choose subjects and methods
of instruction, with deliberate reference to this end. Not only ought we to cease from the
mere unthinking adoption of the current fashion in education, which has no better warrant than
any other fashion; but we must also rise above that rude, empirical style of judging displayed
by those more intelligent people who do bestow some care in overseeing the cultivation of their
children's minds. It must not suffice simply to think that such or such information will be
useful in after life, or that this kind of knowledge is of more practical value than that;
but we must seek out some process of estimating their respective values, so that as far as
possible we may positively know which are most deserving of attention.

Doubtless the task is difficult--perhaps never to be more than approximately achieved. But,
considering the vastness of the interests at stake, its difficulty is no reason for pusillanimously
passing it by; but rather for devoting every energy to its mastery. And if we only proceed
systematically, we may very soon get at results of no small moment.

Our first step must obviously be to classify, in the order of their importance, the leading
kinds of activity which constitute human life. They may be naturally arranged into:--1. those
activities which directly minister to self-preservation; 2. those activities which, by securing
the necessaries of life, indirectly minister to self-preservation; 3. those activities which
have for their end the rearing and discipline of offspring; 4. those activities which are involved
in the maintenance of proper social and political relations; 5. those miscellaneous activities
which fill up the leisure part of life, devoted to the gratification of the tastes and feelings.

That these stand in something like their true order of subordination, it needs no long consideration
to show. The actions and precautions by which, from moment to moment, we secure personal safety,
must clearly take precedence of all others. Could there be a man, ignorant as an infant of
surrounding objects and movements, or how to guide himself among them, he would pretty certainly
lose his life the first time he went into the street; notwithstanding any amount of learning
he might have on other matters. And as entire ignorance in all other directions would be less
promptly fatal than entire ignorance in this direction, it must be admitted that knowledge
immediately conducive to self-preservation is of primary importance.

That next after direct self-preservation comes the indirect self-preservation which consists
in acquiring the means of living, none will question. That a man's industrial functions must
be considered before his parental ones, is manifest from the fact that, speaking generally,
the discharge of the parental functions is made possible only by the previous discharge of
the industrial ones. The power of self-maintenance necessarily preceding the power of maintaining
offspring, it follows that knowledge needful for self-maintenance has stronger claims than
knowledge needful for family welfare--is second in value to none save knowledge needful for
immediate self-preservation.

As the family comes before the State in order of time--as the bringing up of children is possible
before the State exists, or when it has ceased to be, whereas the State is rendered possible
only by the bringing up of children; it follows that the duties of the parent demand closer
attention than those of the citizen. Or, to use a further argument--since the goodness of a
society ultimately depends on the nature of its citizens; and since the nature of its citizens
is more modifiable by early training than by anything else; we must conclude that the welfare
of the family underlies the welfare of society. And hence knowledge directly conducing to the
first, must take precedence of knowledge directly conducing to the last.

Those various forms of pleasurable occupation which fill up the leisure left by graver occupations--the
enjoyments of music, poetry, painting, etc.--manifestly imply a pre-existing society. Not only
is a considerable development of them impossible without a long-established social union; but
their very subject-matter consists in great part of social sentiments and sympathies. Not only
does society supply the conditions to their growth; but also the ideas and sentiments they
express. And, consequently, that part of human conduct which constitutes good citizenship,
is of more moment than that which goes out in accomplishments or exercise of the tastes; and,
in education, preparation for the one must rank before preparation for the other.

Such then, we repeat, is something like the rational order of subordination:--That education
which prepares for direct self-preservation; that which prepares for indirect self-preservation;
that which prepares for parenthood; that which prepares for citizenship; that which prepares
for the miscellaneous refinements of life. We do not mean to say that these divisions are definitely
separable. We do not deny that they are intricately entangled with each other, in such way
that there can be no training for any that is not in some measure a training for all. Nor do
we question that of each division there are portions more important than certain portions of
the preceding divisions: that, for instance, a man of much skill in business but little other
faculty, may fall further below the standard of complete living than one of but moderate ability
in money-getting but great judgment as a parent; or that exhaustive information bearing on
right social action, joined with entire want of general culture in literature and the fine
arts, is less desirable than a more moderate share of the one joined with some of the other.
But, after making due qualifications, there still remain these broadly-marked divisions; and
it still continues substantially true that these divisions subordinate one another in the foregoing
order, because the corresponding divisions of life make one another possible in that order.

Of course the ideal of education is--complete preparation in all these divisions. But failing
this ideal, as in our phase of civilisation every one must do more or less, the aim should
be to maintain a due proportion between the degrees of preparation in each. Not exhaustive
cultivation in any one, supremely important though it may be--not even an exclusive attention
to the two, three, or four divisions of greatest importance; but an attention to all:--greatest
where the value is greatest; less where the value is less; least where the value is least.
For the average man (not to forget the cases in which peculiar aptitude for some one department
of knowledge, rightly makes pursuit of that one the bread-winning occupation)--for the average
man, we say, the desideratum is, a training that approaches nearest to perfection in the things
which most subserve complete living, and falls more and more below perfection in the things
that have more and more remote bearings on complete living.

In regulating education by this standard, there are some general considerations that should
be ever present to us. The worth of any kind of culture, as aiding complete living, may be
either necessary or more or less contingent. There is knowledge of intrinsic value; knowledge
of quasi-intrinsic value; and knowledge of conventional value. Such facts as that sensations
of numbness and tingling commonly precede paralysis, that the resistance of water to a body
moving through it varies as the square of the velocity, that chlorine is a disinfectant,--these,
and the truths of Science in general, are of intrinsic value: they will bear on human conduct
ten thousand years hence as they do now. The extra knowledge of our own language, which is
given by an acquaintance with Latin and Greek, may be considered to have a value that is quasi-intrinsic:
it must exist for us and for other races whose languages owe much to these sources; but will
last only as long as our languages last. While that kind of information which, in our schools,
usurps the name History--the mere tissue of names and dates and dead unmeaning events--has
a conventional value only: it has not the remotest bearing on any of our actions; and is of
use only for the avoidance of those unpleasant criticisms which current opinion passes upon
its absence. Of course, as those facts which concern all mankind throughout all time must be
held of greater moment than those which concern only a portion of them during a limited era,
and of far greater moment than those which concern only a portion of them during the continuance
of a fashion; it follows that in a rational estimate, knowledge of intrinsic worth must, other
things equal, take precedence of knowledge that is of quasi-intrinsic or conventional worth.

One further preliminary. Acquirement of every kind has two values--value as knowledge and value
as discipline. Besides its use for guiding conduct, the acquisition of each order of facts
has also its use as mental exercise; and its effects as a preparative for complete living have
to be considered under both these heads.

These, then, are the general ideas with which we must set out in discussing a curriculum:--Life
as divided into several kinds of activity of successively decreasing importance; the worth
of each order of facts as regulating these several kinds of activity, intrinsically, quasi-intrinsically,
and conventionally; and their regulative influences estimated both as knowledge and discipline.

       *       *       *       *       *

Happily, that all-important part of education which goes to secure direct self-preservation,
is in great part already provided for. Too momentous to be left to our blundering, Nature takes
it into her own hands. While yet in its nurse's arms, the infant, by hiding its face and crying
at the sight of a stranger, shows the dawning instinct to attain safety by flying from that
which is unknown and may be dangerous; and when it can walk, the terror it manifests if an
unfamiliar dog comes near, or the screams with which it runs to its mother after any startling
sight or sound, shows this instinct further developed. Moreover, knowledge subserving direct
self-preservation is that which it is chiefly busied in acquiring from hour to hour. How to
balance its body; how to control its movements so as to avoid collisions; what objects are
hard, and will hurt if struck; what objects are heavy, and injure if they fall on the limbs;
which things will bear the weight of the body, and which not; the pains inflicted by fire,
by missiles, by sharp instruments--these, and various other pieces of information needful for
the avoidance of death or accident, it is ever learning. And when, a few years later, the energies
go out in running, climbing, and jumping, in games of strength and games of skill, we see in
all these actions by which the muscles are developed, the perceptions sharpened, and the judgment
quickened, a preparation for the safe conduct of the body among surrounding objects and movements;
and for meeting those greater dangers that occasionally occur in the lives of all. Being thus,
as we say, so well cared for by Nature, this fundamental education needs comparatively little
care from us. What we are chiefly called upon to see, is, that there shall be free scope for
gaining this experience and receiving this discipline--that there shall be no such thwarting
of Nature as that by which stupid schoolmistresses commonly prevent the girls in their charge
from the spontaneous physical activities they would indulge in; and so render them comparatively
incapable of taking care of themselves in circumstances of peril.

This, however, is by no means all that is comprehended in the education that prepares for direct
self-preservation. Besides guarding the body against mechanical damage or destruction, it has
to be guarded against injury from other causes--against the disease and death that follow breaches
of physiologic law. For complete living it is necessary, not only that sudden annihilations
of life shall be warded off; but also that there shall be escaped the incapacities and the
slow annihilation which unwise habits entail. As, without health and energy, the industrial,
the parental, the social, and all other activities become more or less impossible; it is clear
that this secondary kind of direct self-preservation is only less important than the primary
kind; and that knowledge tending to secure it should rank very high.

It is true that here, too, guidance is in some measure ready supplied. By our various physical
sensations and desires, Nature has insured a tolerable conformity to the chief requirements.
Fortunately for us, want of food, great heat, extreme cold, produce promptings too peremptory
to be disregarded. And would men habitually obey these and all like promptings when less strong,
comparatively few evils would arise. If fatigue of body or brain were in every case followed
by desistance; if the oppression produced by a close atmosphere always led to ventilation;
if there were no eating without hunger, or drinking without thirst; then would the system be
but seldom out of working order. But so profound an ignorance is there of the laws of life,
that men do not even know that their sensations are their natural guides, and (when not rendered
morbid by long--continued disobedience) their trustworthy guides. So that though, to speak
teleologically, Nature has provided efficient safeguards to health, lack of knowledge makes
them in a great measure useless.

If any one doubts the importance of an acquaintance with the principles of physiology, as a
means to complete living, let him look around and see how many men and women he can find in
middle or later life who are thoroughly well. Only occasionally do we meet with an example
of vigorous health continued to old age; hourly do we meet with examples of acute disorder,
chronic ailment, general debility, premature decrepitude. Scarcely is there one to whom you
put the question, who has not, in the course of his life, brought upon himself illnesses which
a little information would have saved him from. Here is a case of heart-disease consequent
on a rheumatic fever that followed reckless exposure. There is a case of eyes spoiled for life
by over-study. Yesterday the account was of one whose long-enduring lameness was brought on
by continuing, spite of the pain, to use a knee after it had been slightly injured. And to-day
we are told of another who has had to lie by for years, because he did not know that the palpitation
he suffered under resulted from overtaxed brain. Now we hear of an irremediable injury which
followed some silly feat of strength; and, again, of a constitution that has never recovered
from the effects of excessive work needlessly undertaken. While on every side we see the perpetual
minor ailments which accompany feebleness. Not to dwell on the pain, the weariness, the gloom,
the waste of time and money thus entailed, only consider how greatly ill-health hinders the
discharge of all duties--makes business often impossible, and always more difficult; produces
an irritability fatal to the right management of children; puts the functions of citizenship
out of the question; and makes amusement a bore. Is it not clear that the physical sins--partly
our forefathers' and partly our own--which produce this ill-health, deduct more from complete
living than anything else? and to a great extent make life a failure and a burden instead of
a benefaction and a pleasure?

