I have thus, very briefly, given the extent of my experience with reference to the old Leverett
Street Jail. Unlawful ladies and gentlemen are now accommodated in an elegant establishment
in Cambridge street, for the old Jail has been levelled to the ground to make room for "modern
improvements."--I visited it just before the commencement of its destruction, and gazed at
my old apartment "more in sorrow than in anger." There were my name and a few verses, which
I had written upon the wall. There was the rude table, upon which I had penned two novels,
which, from their tone, seem rather to have emanated from a gilded boudoir. There, too, in
the grated window, was a little flower-pot in which I had cultivated a solitary plant. That
poor plant had withered and died long ago, for the prisoners who succeeded me probably had
no taste for such "trash." I took and carefully preserved the dead remains of my floral favorite--"for,"
said I to myself--"they will serve to remind me of a dark spot in my existence."

And now, with the reader's permission, I will turn to matters of a more cheerful character.

FOOTNOTES:

[M] I allude to Mr. W.G. Jones, now deceased.

CHAPTER XI

"The Uncles and Nephews."

Ring up the curtain! Room there for the Boston Players. Let them approach our presence, not
as they appear upon the stage, in rouge, and spangles, and wigs, and calves and cotton pad;
but as they look in broad daylight, or in the bar-room when the play is over, arrayed in garments
of a modern date, wearing their own personal faces, swearing their own private oaths, and drinking
real malt out of honest pewter, instead of imbibing dusty atmosphere from pasteboard goblets.
Room, I say!

There is an intimate connection between the press and the stage, that is a congeniality of
character, habit, taste, feeling and disposition, between the writer and the actor. The press
and the stage are, in a measure, dependent on each other. The newspaper looks to the theatre
for light, racy and readable items, with which to adorn its columns, like festoons of flowers
gracefully hung around columns of marble. The theatre looks to the newspaper for impartial
criticisms and laudatory notices. Show me a convivial party of actors, and I will swear there
are at least two or three professional writers among them. I know many actors who are practical
printers, fellows who can wield a composing-stick as deftly as a fighting sword. Long life
and prosperity to the whole of them, say I; and bless them for a careless, happy, pleasure-loving,
bill-hating and beer-imbibing race of men. Amen.

There is one point of resemblance between the hero of the sock and buskin and the Knight of
the quill. The former dresses up his person and adopts the language of another, in order to
represent a certain character; the latter clothes his ideas in an appropriate garb of words,
and puts sentiments in the mouths of his characters which are not always his own. But I was
speaking of the Boston Players.

Admitting the foregoing argument to be correct, it is not to be wondered at that I became extensively
acquainted among the members of the theatrical profession. My name was upon the free list of
every theatre in the city; and every night I visited one or more of the houses--not to see
the play, but to chat in the saloons with the actors and literary people who in those places
most did congregate. After the play was over, we all used to assemble in an ale-house near
the principal theatre; and daylight would often surprise us in the midst of our "devotions."
A curious mixed-up set we were to be sure! I will try to recollect the most prominent members
of our club. First of all there was the argumentative and positive Jim Prior, who might properly
be regarded as President of the club. Then came H.W. Fenno, Esq., the gentlemanly Treasurer
of the National. He, however, seldom tarried after having once "put the party through." The
eccentric "Old Spear" was generally present, seated in an obscure corner smoking a solitary
cigar. Comical S.D. Johnson and his hopeful son George were usually on hand to enliven the
scene; and so was Jim Ring, alias J. Henry, the best negro performer, next to Daddy Rice, in
the United States. Chunkey Monroe, who did the villains at the National; and, towering above
him might be seen his cousin, Lengthy Monroe, who enacted the hard old codgers at the same
establishment. That fine fellow, Ned Sandford, must not be forgotten; neither must Sam Lake,
the clever little dancer. Rube Meer was invariably to be found in company with a pot of malt;
and he was usually assisted by P. Jones, a personage who never allowed himself to be funny
until he had consumed four pints. Charley Saunders, the comedian and dramatist, the author
of "Rosina Meadows" and many other popular plays--kept the "table in a roar," by his wit and
also by his excruciatingly bad puns. Bird, of "Pea-nut Palace" notoriety, held forth in nasal
accents to Bill Colwell, the husband of the pretty and accomplished Anna Cruise. Big Sam Johnson,
a heavy actor, a gallant Hibernian and a splendid fellow, discussed old Jamaica with his friend
and boon companion, Sam Palmer, alias "Chucks." The mysterious Frank Whitman captures his brother-actor
at the Museum, Jack Adams, and imprisoning him in a corner from which there was no escape,
imparts to him the most tremendous secrets. Ned Wilkings--one of the best reporters in the
city--tells the last "funny thing" to John Young; while Joe Bradley, proprietor of the Mail,
touches glasses with Jim McKinney. Meanwhile, the two waiters, Handiboe and Abbott, circulate
around with the greatest activity, fetching on the liquors and removing the dirty glasses,
from which they slyly contrive to drain a few drops now and then, for their bodily refreshment.
As an instance of the "base uses" to which genius may "come at last," I will state that Handiboe,
whom we now find in such a menial position, was once quite a literary character; while poor
Abbott, to whom I now throw a few small coins in charity, was a setter of type. The rest of
the party is made up of Pete Cunningham, Sam Glenn, Bill Dimond, Jim Brand, Bill Donaldson,
Dan Townsend, Jack Weaver, Cal Smith, and a host of others whom it would puzzle the very devil
himself to remember.

Such was the "Uncle and Nephew Club," of which I had the honor to be a prominent member. Almost
every man belonging to it was a wit, a punster or a humorist of some kind; and I will venture
to say, that had some industrious individual taken the pains to preserve and publish one-half
the good things that were said at our meetings, a large volume might be formed that would be
no contemptible specimen of genius. Whenever a member had the audacity to perpetrate some shocking
bad pun, and such enormities were frequent, the offender was sentenced to undergo some ludicrous
punishment; and the utmost good-humor and hilarity always prevailed.

I will now relate a rather amusing adventure in which I participated with others of the "Uncles
and Nephews."

