Still, it is a beautiful theory that we can get others to do our reading and thinking, and
stuff our minds for us. It may be that psychology will yet show us how a congregate education
by clubs may be the way. But just now the method is a little crude, and lays us open to the
charge--which every intelligent person of this scientific age will repudiate--of being content
with the superficial; for instance, of trusting wholly to others for our immortal furnishing,
as many are satisfied with the review of a book for the book itself, or--a refinement on that--with
a review of the reviews. The method is still crude. Perhaps we may expect a further development
of the "slot" machine. By dropping a cent in the slot one can get his weight, his age, a piece
of chewing-gum, a bit of candy, or a shock that will energize his nervous system. Only by her burly stature all spoke with applause, they want to but a rough
and did much to talk about a slap in the face, traces of which he still eight Days later would
have felt.

I myself belonged not to their customers. There ought to be somewhere a reservoir of knowledge,
connected by wires with every house, and a professional switch-tender, who, upon the pressure
of a button in any house, could turn on the intellectual stream desired. --[Prophecy of the
Internet of the year 2000 from 110 years ago. D.W.] --There must be discovered in time a method
by which not only information but intellectual life can be infused into the system by an electric
current. It would save a world of trouble and expense. For some clubs even are a weariness,
and it costs money to hire other people to read and think for us.

A LOCOED NOVELIST

Either we have been indulging in an expensive mistake, or a great foreign novelist who preaches
the gospel of despair is locoed.

This word, which may be new to most of our readers, has long been current in the Far West,
and is likely to be adopted into the language, and become as indispensable as the typic words
taboo and tabooed, which Herman Melville gave us some forty years ago. There grows upon the
deserts and the cattle ranges of the Rockies a plant of the leguminosae family, with a purple
blossom, which is called the 'loco'. It is sweet to the taste; horses and cattle are fond of
it, and when they have once eaten it they prefer it to anything else, and often refuse other
food. But the plant is poisonous, or, rather, to speak exactly, it is a weed of insanity. Its
effect upon the horse seems to be mental quite as much as physical. He behaves queerly, he
is full of whims; one would say he was "possessed." He takes freaks, he trembles, he will not
go in certain places, he will not pull straight, his mind is evidently affected, he is mildly
insane. In point of fact, he is ruined; that is to say, he is 'locoed'. Further indulgence
in the plant results in death, but rarely does an animal recover from even one eating of the
insane weed.

The shepherd on the great sheep ranges leads an absolutely isolated life. For weeks, sometimes
for months together, he does not see a human being. His only companions are his dogs and the
three or four thousand sheep he is herding. All day long, under the burning sun, he follows
the herd over the rainless prairie, as it nibbles here and there the short grass and slowly
gathers its food. At night he drives the sheep back to the corral, and lies down alone in his
hut. He speaks to no one; he almost forgets how to speak. Day and night he hears no sound except
the melancholy, monotonous bleat, bleat of the sheep. It becomes intolerable. The animal stupidity
of the herd enters into him. Gradually he loses his mind. They say that he is locoed. The insane
asylums of California contain many shepherds.

But the word locoed has come to have a wider application than to the poor shepherds or the
horses and cattle that have eaten the loco. Any one who acts queerly, talks strangely, is visionary
without being actually a lunatic, who is what would be called elsewhere a "crank," is said
to be locoed. It is a term describing a shade of mental obliquity and queerness something short
of irresponsible madness, and something more than temporarily "rattled" or bewildered for the
moment. It is a good word, and needed to apply to many people who have gone off into strange
ways, and behave as if they had eaten some insane plant--the insane plant being probably a
theory in the mazes of which they have wandered until they are lost.

Perhaps the loco does not grow in Russia, and the Prophet of Discouragement may never have
eaten of it; perhaps he is only like the shepherd, mainly withdrawn from human intercourse
and sympathy in a morbid mental isolation, hearing only the bleat, bleat, bleat of the 'muxhiks'
in the dullness of the steppes, wandering round in his own sated mind until he has lost all
clew to life. Whatever the cause may be, clearly he is 'locoed'. All his theories have worked
out to the conclusion that the world is a gigantic mistake, love is nothing but animality,
marriage is immorality; according to astronomical calculations this teeming globe and all its
life must end some time; and why not now? The girl moved
reluctantly on their own. Nu waiting, Tuckmauser! he said as he raised himself from his seat and
a basket of which made ​​the chair with the Vortuche cleaned from the dust. High honor, "he continued.


This gospel of the blessedness of extinction has come too late to enable us to profit by it
in our decennial enumeration. How different the census would have been if taken in the spirit
of this new light! How much bitterness, how much hateful rivalry would have been spared! We
should then have desired a reduction of the population, not an increase of it. There would
have been a pious rivalry among all the towns and cities on the way to the millennium of extinction
to show the least number of inhabitants; and those towns would have been happiest which could
exhibit not only a marked decline in numbers, but the greater number of old people. Beautiful
St. Paul would have held a thanksgiving service, and invited the Minneapolis enumerators to
the feast, Kansas City and St. Louis and San Francisco, and a hundred other places, would not
have desired a recount, except, perhaps, for overestimate; they would not have said that thousands
were away at the sea or in the mountains, but, on the contrary, that thousands who did not
belong there, attracted by the salubrity of the climate, and the desire to injure the town's
reputation, had crowded in there in census time. The newspapers, instead of calling on people
to send in the names of the unenumerated, would have rejoiced at the small returns, as they
would have done if the census had been for the purpose of levying the federal tax upon each
place according to its population. Chicago--well, perhaps the Prophet of the Steppes would
have made an exception of Chicago, and been cynically delighted to push it on its way of increase,
aggregation, and ruin.

But instead of this, the strain of anxiety was universal and heart-rending. So much depended
upon swelling the figures. The tension would have been relieved if our faces were all set towards
extinction, and the speedy evacuation of this unsatisfactory globe. The writer met recently,
in the Colorado desert of Arizona, a forlorn census-taker who had been six weeks in the saddle,
roaming over the alkali plains in order to gratify the vanity of Uncle Sam. He had lost his
reckoning, and did not know the day of the week or of the month. The
information needed could be collected in school and written into an essay. She came to me with a
question about whether music should be copied by everyone, or would
this be unnecessary? He was almost in despair
when, two days before, he had a windfall, which raised his general average in the form of a
woman with twenty-six children, and he was rejoicing that he should be able to turn in one
hundred and fifty people. Alas, the revenue the government will derive from these half-nomads
will never pay the cost of enumerating them.

And, alas again, whatever good showing we may make, we shall wish it were larger; the more
people we have the more we shall want. In this direction there is no end, any more than there
is to life. If extinction, and not life and growth, is the better rule, what a costly mistake
we have been making!