THE TWO GUARDIANS

or, HOME IN THIS WORLD

by CHARLOTTE MARY YONGE

THE AUTHOR OF "THE HEIR OF REDCLYFFE," "HENRIETTA'S WISH," "KENNETH," "HEARTSEASE," "THE CASTLE
BUILDERS," ETC.

1871

PREFACE.

In putting forth another work, the Author is anxious to say a few words on the design of these
stories; not with a view to obviate criticism, but in hopes of pointing to the moral, which
has been thought not sufficiently evident, perhaps because it has been desired to convey, rather
than directly inculcate it.

Throughout these tales the plan has been to present a picture of ordinary life, with its small
daily events, its pleasures, and its trials, so as to draw out its capabilities of being turned
to the best account. Great events, such as befall only a few, are thus excluded, and in the
hope of helping to present a clue, by example, to the perplexities of daily life, the incidents,
which render a story exciting, have been sacrificed, and the attempt has been to make the interest
of the books depend on character painting.

Each has been written with the wish to illustrate some principle which may be called the key
note. "Abbeychurch" is intended to show the need of self-control and the evil of conceit in
different manifestations; according to the various characters, "Scenes and Characters" was
meant to exemplify the effects of being guided by mere feeling, set in contrast with strict
adherence to duty. In "Henrietta's Wish" the opposition is between wilfulness and submission--filial
submission as required, in the young people, and that of which it is a commencement as well
as a type, as instanced in Mrs. Frederick Langford. The design of the "Castle Builders" is
to show the instability and dissatisfaction of mind occasioned by the want of a practical,
obedient course of daily life; with an especial view to the consequences of not seeking strength
and assistance in the appointed means of grace.

And as the very opposite to Emmeline's feeble character, the heroine of the present story is
intended to set forth the manner in which a Christian may contend with and conquer this world,
living in it but not of it, and rendering it a means of self-renunciation. It is therefore
purposely that the end presents no great event, and leaves Marian unrecompensed save by the
effects her consistent well doing has produced on her companions. Any other compensation would
render her self-sacrifice incomplete, and make her no longer invisibly above the world.

October 14th, 1852.

CHAPTER I.

  "With fearless pride I say
  That she is healthful, fleet, and strong
  And down the rocks will leap along,
  Like rivulets in May."

  WORDSWORTH.

Along a beautiful Devonshire lane, with banks of rock overhung by tall bowery hedges, rode
a lively and merry pair, now laughing and talking, now summoning by call or whistle the spaniel
that ran by their side, or careered through the fields within the hedge.

The younger was a maiden of about twelve years old, in a long black and white plaid riding-skirt,
over a pink gingham frock, and her dark hair hidden beneath a little cap furnished with a long
green veil, which was allowed to stream behind her in the wind, instead of affording the intended
shelter to a complexion already a shade or two darkened by the summer sun, but with little
colour in the cheeks; and what there was, only the pale pink glow like a wild rose, called
up for the moment by warmth and exercise, and soon to pass away. Still there was no appearance
of want of health; the skin was of a clear, soft, fresh shade of brown; the large dark eyes,
in spite of all their depth of melancholy softness, had the wild, untamed animation of a mountaineer;
the face and form were full of free life and vigour, as she sat erect and perfectly at ease
on her spirited little bay pony, which at times seemed so lively that it might have been matter
of surprise to a stranger that so young a horsewoman should be trusted on its back.

Her companion was a youth some ten or eleven years her senior, possessing a handsome set of
regular features, with a good deal of family likeness to hers; dark eyes and hair, and a figure
which, though slight, was rather too tall to look suitable to the small, stout, strong pony
which carried him and his numerous equipments, consisting of a long rod-case, a fishing-basket
and landing-net, in accordance with the lines of artificial flies wreathed round his straw
hat, and the various oddly contrived pockets of his grey shooting-coat.

In the distance at the end of the lane there appeared two walking figures. "Mrs. Wortley!"
exclaimed the young lady.

"No, surely not out so soon!" was the answer. "She is in the depth of lessons."

"No, but Edmund, it is, look, and Agnes too! There, Ranger has better eyes than you; he is
racing to them."

"Well, I acknowledge my mistake," said Edmund, drawing up his rein as they came upon the pair,--a
pleasing lady, and a pretty blue-eyed girl of fourteen. "I did not believe my eyes, Mrs. Wortley,
though Marian tried to persuade me. I thought you were always reading Italian at this time
in the morning, Agnes".

"And I thought you were reading Phaedrus with Gerald," said Mrs. Wortley.

"Ay," said Agnes, "we did not know what to make of you coming up the lane; you with your lance
there, like the Red Cross Knight himself, and Marian with her palfry for Una."

"The knight must have borrowed the dwarf's ass," said Edmund, laughing, and putting his lance
in rest.

"And where have you been, then, at this portentous time of day, Agnes?" asked Marian.

"We heard a report of Betty Lapthorn's child having another fit," said Agnes, "and set off
to see; but it turned out to be a false alarm. And now we are going up to the Manor House to
ask Lady Arundel if she has any arrowroot for it, for ours is all used up."

"Shall we find her at leisure?" added Mrs. Wortley.

"Yes," said Marian. "Gerald has finished his lessons by this time. Mamma thought it would be
too far for him to go with us, and besides he frightens the fish."

"Which you are in too good training to do, Marian," said Mrs. Wortley. "And how is your papa
to-day?"

"Oh, it is a good day," said Marian: "he was up before we set off."

"Down stairs? For perhaps we had better not go now, just after he is tired with coming down,"
said Mrs. Wortley. "Now, Mr. Arundel, you will tell me honestly, and this arrowroot will do
just as well another time; or if Marian will carry home the message--"

"Well," said Edmund, smiling, "to give you a proof of my sincerity, I think you had better
perhaps go rather later in the day. My uncle very unnecessarily hurried himself, thinking that
he was keeping me waiting to help him down stairs, and I thought he seemed rather tired; but
he will be very glad to see you in the afternoon. Indeed, he would be very glad now, only you
asked me as a question of prudence."

"Don't make civil speeches at the end to spoil just such a reply as I wanted," said Mrs. Wortley.
"I am afraid you do not think Sir Edmund much better since you were last at home."

Edmund shook his head. "If he has not lost ground, it is well," said he, "and I think at least
there is less pain."

"Well, I will not keep you any longer," said Mrs. Wortley; "good-bye, and good sport to you."

And with a wave of the hand on rode the two cousins, Edmund and Marian Arundel.

"What an excellent thing it is for the village that those Wortleys are come!" said Edmund.

"Yes; now that mamma cannot attend much to the school and poor people, I don't know what we
should do without them. How different it was in old Mr. May's time! I hope we shall get the
Church set to rights now, when papa is well enough to attend to it."

"It is high time, certainly," said Edmund; "our Church is almost a disgrace to us, especially
with the Arundel aisle, to show what our ancestors did."

"No, not quite to us," said Marian; "you know papa would have done it all long ago, if the
idea had not vexed poor old Mr. May so much. But Ranger! Ranger! where is Ranger, Edmund?"

Edmund whistled, and presently, with whirring, rushing wing, there flew over the hedge beside
them a covey of partridges, followed by Ranger's eager bark. Marian's pony started, danced,
and capered; Edmund watched her with considerable anxiety, but she reined it in with a steady,
dexterous, though not a strong hand, kept her seat well, and rode on in triumph, while Edmund
exclaimed, "Capital, Marian!" Then looking back, "What a shot that was!" he added in a sort
of parenthesis, continuing, "I am proud, Mayflower is not a bit too much for you now, though
I think we must have given her up if you had had another tumble."

"Oh, no, no, I do so delight in Mayflower, pretty creature!" said Marian, patting her neck.
"I like to feel that the creature I ride is alive--not an old slug, like that animal which
you are upon, Edmund."

"That is decidedly ungrateful of you, Marian, when you learnt to ride upon this identical slug,
and owe the safety of your neck to its quiet propensities. Now take care down this stony hill;
hold her up well--that is right."

Care was certainly needed as they descended the steep hill side; the road, or rather pathway,
cut out between high, steep, limestone rocks, and here and there even bare of earth. Any one
but a native would have trembled at such a descent but though the cousins paid attention to
their progress, they had no doubts or alarms. At the bottom a clear sparkling stream traversed
the road, where, for the convenience of foot passengers, a huge flat stone had been thrown
across from one high bank to the other, so as to form a romantic bridge. Marian, however, did
not avail herself of it, but rode gallantly through the shallow water, only looking back at
it to observe to Edmund, "We must make a sketch of that some day or other."

"I am afraid we cannot get far enough off," said Edmund, "to make a good drawing of it. Too
many things go to the making of the picturesque."

"Yes, I know, but that is what I never can understand. I see by woeful experience that what
is pretty in itself will not make a pretty drawing, and everyone says so; but I never could
find out why."

"Perhaps because we cannot represent it adequately."

"Yes, but there is another puzzle; you sometimes see an exact representation, which is not
really a picture at all. Don't you know that thing that the man who came to the door did of
our house,--the trees all green, and the sky all blue, and the moors all purple?"

"As like as it can stare; yes, I know."

"Well, why does that not satisfy us? why is it not a picture?"

"Because it stares, I suppose. Why does not that picture of my aunt at Mrs. Week's cottage
satisfy you as well as the chalk sketch in the dining-room?"

"Because it has none of herself--her spirit."

"Well, I should say that nature has a self and a spirit which must be caught, or else the Chinese
would be the greatest artists on the face of the earth."

"Yes, but why does an archway, or two trees standing up so as to enclose the landscape, or--or
any of those things that do to put in the foreground, why do they enable you to make a picture,
to catch this self and spirit."

"Make the phial to enclose the genie," said Edmund. "Abstruse questions, Marian; but perhaps
it is because they contract the space, so as to bring it more to the level of our capacity,
make it less grand, and more what we can get into keeping. To be sure, he would be a presumptuous
man who tried to make an exact likeness of that," he added, as they reached the top of the
hill, and found themselves on an open common, with here and there a mass of rock peeping up,
but for the most part covered with purple heath and short furze, through which Ranger coursed,
barking joyously. The view was splendid, on one side the moors rising one behind the other,
till they faded in grey distance, each crowned with a fantastic pile of rocks, one in the form
of a castle, another of a cathedral, another of a huge crouching lion, all known to the two
cousins by name, and owned as familiar friends. On the other side, between two hills, each
surmounted by its own rocky crest, lay nestled in woods the grey Church tower and cottages
of the village of Fern Torr; and far away stretched the rich landscape of field, wood, and
pasture, ending at length in the blue line of horizon, where sky and sea seemed to join.

"Beautiful! how clear!" was all Marian's exclamation, though she drew up her horse and gazed
with eager eyes, and a deep feeling of the loveliness of the scene, but with scarcely a remark.
There was something in the sight which made her heart too full for words.

After a time of delighted contemplation, Ranger was summoned from a close investigation of
a rabbit-hole, and turning into a cart track, the cousins rode down the side of the hill, where
presently appeared an orchard full of gnarled old apple trees, covered with fruit of all shades
of red, yellow, and green. A little further on were the large stone barns, and picturesque
looking house, which enclosed a farm-yard strewn with heaps of straw, in which pigs, poultry,
and red cows were enjoying themselves. The gate was opened by a wild-looking cow-boy, who very
respectfully touched his cap; and at the house door appeared a nice elderly looking old fashioned
farmer's wife, who came forward to meet them with bright looks of cordiality, and kindly greetings
to Master Edmund and Miss Marian.

"Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Cornthwayte," said Edmund, as he held Marian's pony; "we are come
to ask if you will give our ponies stable room for a couple of hours, while we go fishing up
the river."

"O yes, certainly, sir, but won't you come in a little while and rest? it is a long walk for
Miss Marian."

They did comply with her invitation so far as to enter the large clean kitchen; the kitchen
for show, that is to say, with the sanded floor, the bunch of evergreens in the covered kitchen-range,
the dark old fashioned clock, the bright range of crockery, and well polished oaken table;
and there, while Marian laid aside her riding-skirt, the good woman commenced her anxious inquiries
for Sir Edmund.

"Pretty much the same as usual, thank you," said Edmund.

"No better, then, sir? Ah! I was afraid how it was; it is so long since I have seen him at
church, and he used to come sometimes last summer: and my husband said when he saw him last
week about the rent, he was so fallen away that he would hardly have known him."

"It has been a very long illness," said Edmund.

"Yes, sir; I do wish we could see him about among us again, speaking as cheerful as he used."

"Why he is very cheerful now, Mrs. Cornthwayte," said Edmund. "No one who only heard him talk
would guess how much he has to suffer."

Mrs. Cornthwayte shook her head with a sort of gesture of compassionate admiration, and presently
added,

"But do you think he gets better on the whole, Master Edmund? Do the doctors say there is much
likelihood of his being well again, and coming among us?"

Edmund looked down and did not reply very readily. "I am afraid we must not hope for that;
we must be satisfied as long as he does not lose ground, and I certainly think he has had less
pain of late."

