"Why, of course she talked Italian," said Alice, who was not much interested in her sister's
recollections.

"Naturally. But that didn't somehow occur to me. After all I was only seven."

"I wonder if she's really good-looking," said Alice slowly, glancing, as she spoke, at the
reflection of herself in an old dilapidated mirror, which hung on the schoolroom wall.

"The photos are," said Nora decidedly. "Goodness, I wish she'd come and get it over. I want
to get back to my work--and till she comes, I can't settle to anything."

"Well, they'll be here directly. I wonder what on earth she'll do with all her money. Father
says she may spend it, if she wants to. He's trustee, but Uncle Risborough's letter to him
said she was to have the income if she wished--now. Only she's not to touch the capital till
she's twenty-five."

"It's a good lot, isn't it?" said Nora, walking about. "I wonder how many people in Oxford
have two thousand a year? A girl too. It's really rather exciting."

"It won't be very nice for us--she'll be so different." Alice's tone was a little sulky and
depressed. The advent of this girl cousin, with her title, her good looks, her money, and her
unfair advantages in the way of talking French and Italian, was only moderately pleasant to
the eldest Miss Hooper.

"What--you think she'll snuff us out?" laughed Nora. "Not she! Oxford's not like London. People
are not such snobs."

"What a silly thing to say, Nora! As if it wasn't an enormous pull everywhere to have a handle
to your name, and lots of money!"

"Well, I really think it'll matter less here than anywhere. Oxford, my dear--or some of it--pursues
'the good and the beautiful'"--said Nora, taking a flying leap on to the window-sill again,
and beginning to poke up some tadpoles in a jar, which stood on the window-ledge.

Alice did not think it worth while to continue the conversation. She had little or nothing
of Nora's belief in the other-worldliness of Oxford. At this period, some thirty odd years
ago, the invasion of Oxford on the north by whole new tribes of citizens had already begun.
The old days of University exclusiveness in a ring fence were long done with; the days of much
learning and simple ways, when there were only two carriages in Oxford that were not doctors'
carriages, when the wives of professors and tutors went out to dinner in "chairs" drawn by
men, and no person within the magic circle of the University knew anybody--to speak of--in
the town outside. The University indeed, at this later moment, still more than held its own,
socially, amid the waves of new population that threatened to submerge it; and the occasional
spectacle of retired generals and colonels, the growing number of broughams and victorias in
the streets, or the rumours of persons with "smart" or "county" connections to be found among
the rows of new villas spreading up the Banbury Road were still not sufficiently marked to
disturb the essential character of the old and beautiful place. But new ways and new manners
were creeping in, and the young were sensitively aware of them, like birds that feel the signs
of coming weather.

Alice fell into a brown study. She was thinking about a recent dance given at a house in the
Parks, where some of her particular friends had been present, and where, on the whole, she
had enjoyed herself greatly. Nothing is ever perfect, and she would have liked it better if
Herbert Pryce's sister had not--past all denying--had more partners and a greater success than
herself, and if Herbert Pryce himself had not been--just a little--casual and inattentive.
But after all they had had two or three glorious supper dances, and he certainly would have
kissed her hand, while they were sitting out in the garden, if she had not made haste to put
it out of his reach. "You never did anything of the kind till you were sure he did not mean
to kiss it!" said conscience. "I did not give myself away in the least!"--was vanity's angry
reply. "I was perfectly dignified."

Herbert Pryce was a young fellow and tutor--a mathematical fellow; and therefore, Alice's father,
for whom Greek was the only study worth the brains of a rational being, could not be got to
take the smallest interest in him. But he was certainly very clever, and it was said he was
going to get a post at Cambridge--or something at the Treasury--which would enable him to marry.
Alice suddenly had a vague vision of her own wedding; the beautiful central figure--she would
certainly look beautiful in her wedding dress!--bowing so gracefully; the bridesmaids behind,
in her favourite colours, white and pale green; and the tall man beside her. But Herbert Pryce
was not really tall, and not particularly good-looking, though he had a rather distinguished
hatchet face, with a good forehead. Suppose Herbert and Vernon and all her other friends, were
to give up being "nice" to her as soon as Connie Bledlow appeared? Suppose she was going to
be altogether cut out and put in the background? Alice had a kind of uneasy foreboding that
Herbert Pryce would think a title "interesting."

Meanwhile Nora, having looked through an essay on "Piers Plowman," which she was to take to
her English Literature tutor on the following day, went aimlessly upstairs and put her head
into Connie's room. The old house was panelled, and its guest-room, though small and shabby,
had yet absorbed from its oaken walls, and its outlook on the garden and St. Cyprian's, a certain
measure of the Oxford charm. The furniture was extremely simple--a large hanging cupboard made
by curtaining one of the panelled recesses of the wall, a chest of drawers, a bed, a small
dressing-table and glass, a carpet that was the remains of one which had originally covered
the drawing-room for many years, an armchair, a writing-table, and curtains which having once
been blue had now been dyed a serviceable though ugly dark red. In Nora's eyes it was all comfortable
and nice. She herself had insisted on having the carpet and curtains redipped, so that they
really looked almost new, and the one mattress on the bed "made over"; she had brought up the
armchair, and she had gathered the cherry-blossoms, which stood on the mantelpiece shining
against the darkness of the walls. She had also hung above it a photograph of Watts "Love and
Death." Nora looked at the picture and the flowers with a throb of pleasure. Alice never noticed
such things.

And now what about the maid? Fancy bringing a maid! Nora's sentiments on the subject were extremely
scornful. However Connie had simply taken it for granted, and she had been housed somehow.
Nora climbed up an attic stair and looked into a room which had a dormer window in the roof,
two strips of carpet on the boards, a bed, a washing-stand, a painted chest of drawers, a table,
with an old looking-glass, and two chairs. "Well, that's all I have!" thought Nora defiantly.
But a certain hospitable or democratic instinct made her go downstairs again and bring up a
small vase of flowers like those in Connie's room, and put it on the maid's table. The maid
was English, but she had lived a long time abroad with the Risboroughs.

Sounds! Yes, that was the fly stopping at the front door! Nora flew downstairs, in a flush
of excitement. Alice too had come out into the hall, looking shy and uncomfortable. Dr. Hooper
emerged from his study. He was a big, loosely built man, with a shock of grizzled hair, spectacles,
and a cheerful expression.

A tall, slim girl, in a grey dust-cloak and a large hat, entered the dark panelled hall, looking
round her. "Welcome, my dear Connie!" said Dr. Hooper, cordially, taking her hand and kissing
her. "Your train must have been a little late."

"Twenty minutes!" said Mrs. Hooper, who had followed her niece into the hall. "And the draughts
in the station, Ewen, were something appalling."

The tone was fretful. It had even a touch of indignation as though the speaker charged her
husband with the draughts. Mrs. Hooper was a woman between forty and fifty, small and plain,
except for a pair of rather fine eyes, which, in her youth, while her cheeks were still pink,
and the obstinate lines of her thin slit mouth and prominent chin were less marked, had beguiled
several lovers, Ewen Hooper at their head.

Dr. Hooper took no notice of her complaints. He was saying to his niece--"This is Alice, Constance--and
Nora! You'll hardly remember each other again, after all these years."

"Oh, yes, I remember quite well," said a clear, high-pitched voice. "How do you do!--how do
you do?"

And the girl held a hand out to each cousin in turn. She did not offer to kiss either Alice
or Nora. But she looked at them steadily, and suddenly Nora was aware of that expression of
which she had so vivid although so childish a recollection--as though a satiric spirit sat
hidden and laughing in the eyes, while the rest of the face was quite grave.

"Come in and have some tea. It's quite ready," said Alice, throwing open the drawing-room door.
Her face had cleared suddenly. It did not seem to her, at least in the shadows of the hall,
that her cousin Constance was anything of a beauty.

"I'm afraid I must look after Annette first. She's much more important than I am!"

And the girl ran back to where a woman in a blue serge coat and skirt was superintending the
carrying in of the luggage. There was a great deal of luggage, and Annette, who wore a rather
cross, flushed air, turned round every now and then to look frowningly at the old gabled house
into which it was being carried, as though she were more than doubtful whether the building
would hold the boxes. Yet as houses went, in the older parts of Oxford, Medburn House, Holywell,
was roomy.

"Annette, don't do any unpacking till after tea!" cried Lady Constance. "Just get the boxes
carried up, and rest a bit. I'll come and help you later."

The maid said nothing. Her lips seemed tightly compressed. She stepped into the hall, and spoke
peremptorily to the white-capped parlourmaid who stood bewildered among the trunks.

"Have those boxes--" she pointed to four--two large American Saratogas, and two smaller trunks--"carried
up to her ladyship's room. The other two can go into mine."

"Miss!" whispered the agitated maid in Nora's ear, "we'll never get any of those boxes up the
top-stairs. And if we put them four into her ladyship's room, she'll not be able to move."

"I'll come and see to it," said Nora, snatching up a bag. "They've got to go somewhere!"

Mrs. Hooper repeated that Nora would manage it, and languidly waved her niece towards the drawing-room.
The girl hesitated, laughed, and finally yielded, seeing that Nora was really in charge. Dr.
Hooper led her in, placed an armchair for her beside the tea-table, and stood closely observing
her.

"You're like your mother," he said, at last, in a low voice; "at least in some points." The
girl turned away abruptly, as though what he said jarred, and addressed herself to Alice.

"Poor Annette was very sick. It was a vile crossing."

"Oh, the servants will look after her," said Alice indifferently.

"Everybody has to look after Annette!--or she'll know the reason why," laughed Lady Constance,
removing her black gloves from a very small and slender hand. She was dressed in deep mourning
with crape still upon her hat and dress, though it was more than a year since her mother's
death. Such mourning was not customary in Oxford, and Alice Hooper thought it affected.

Mrs. Hooper then made the tea. But the newcomer paid little attention to the cup placed beside
her. Her eyes wandered round the group at the tea-table, her uncle, a man of originally strong
physique, marred now by the student's stoop, and by weak eyes, tried by years of Greek and
German type; her aunt--

"What a very odd woman Aunt Ellen is!" thought Constance.

For, all the way from the station, Mrs. Hooper had talked about scarcely anything but her own
ailments, and the Oxford climate. "She told us all about her rheumatisms--and the east winds--and
how she ought to go to Buxton every year--only Uncle Hooper wouldn't take things seriously.
And she never asked us anything at all about our passage, or our night journey! And there was
Annette--as yellow as an egg--and as cross--"

However Dr. Hooper was soon engaged in making up for his wife's shortcomings. He put his niece
through many questions as to the year which had elapsed since her parent's death; her summer
in the high Alps, and her winter at Cannes.

"I never met your friends--Colonel and Mrs. King. We are not military in Oxford. But they seem--to
judge from their letters--to be very nice people," said the Professor, his tone, quite unconsciously,
suggesting the slightest shade of patronage.

"Oh, they're dears," said the girl warmly. "They were awfully good to me."

"Cannes was very gay, I suppose?"

"We saw a great many people in the afternoons. The Kings knew everybody. But I didn't go out
in the evenings."

"You weren't strong enough?"

"I was in mourning," said the girl, looking at him with her large and brilliant eyes.

"Yes, yes, of course!" murmured the Reader, not quite understanding why he felt himself a trifle
snubbed. He asked a few more questions, and his niece, who seemed to have no shyness, gave
a rapid description, as she sipped her tea, of the villa at Cannes in which she had passed
the winter months, and of the half dozen families, with whom she and her friends had been mostly
thrown. Alice Hooper was secretly thrilled by some of the names which dropped out casually.
She always read the accounts in the Queen, or the Sketch, of "smart society" on the Riviera,
and it was plain to her that Constance had been dreadfully "in it." It would not apparently
have been possible to be more "in it." She was again conscious of a hot envy of her cousin
which made her unhappy. Also Connie's good looks were becoming more evident. She had taken
off her hat, and all the distinction of her small head, her slender neck and sloping shoulders,
was more visible; her self-possession, too, the ease and vivacity of her gestures. Her manner
was that of one accustomed to a large and varied world, who took all things without surprise,
as they came. Dr. Hooper had felt some emotion, and betrayed some, in this meeting with his
sister's motherless child; but the girl's only betrayal of feeling had lain in the sharpness
with which she had turned away from her uncle's threatened effusion. "And how she looks at
us!" thought Alice. "She looks at us through and through. Yet she doesn't stare."

But at that moment Alice heard the word "prince," and her attention was instantly arrested.

"We had some Russian neighbours," the newcomer was saying; "Prince and Princess Jaroslav; and
they had an English party at Christmas. It was great fun. They used to take us out riding into
the mountains, or into Italy." She paused a moment, and then said carelessly--as though to
keep up the conversation--"There was a Mr. Falloden with them--an undergraduate at Marmion
College, I think. Do you know him, Aunt Ellen?" She turned towards her aunt.

But Mrs. Hooper only looked blank. She was just thinking anxiously that she had forgotten to
take her tabloids after lunch, because Ewen had hustled her off so much too soon to the station.

"I don't think we know him," she said vaguely, turning towards Alice.

"We know all about him. He was introduced to me once."

The tone of the eldest Miss Hooper could scarcely have been colder. The eyes of the girl opposite
suddenly sparkled into laughter.

"You didn't like him?"

"Nobody does. He gives himself such ridiculous airs."

"Does he?" said Constance. The information seemed to be of no interest to her. She asked for
another cup of tea.

"Oh, Falloden of Marmion?" said Dr. Hooper. "I know him quite well. One of the best pupils
I have. But I understand he's the heir to his old uncle, Lord Dagnall, and is going to be enormously
rich. His father's a millionaire already. So of course he'll soon forget his Greek. A horrid
waste!"

"He's detested in college!" Alice's small face lit up vindictively. "There's a whole set of
them. Other people call them 'the bloods.' The dons would like to send them all down."

"They won't send Falloden down, my dear, before he gets his First in Greats, which he will
do this summer. But this is his last term. I never knew any one write better Greek iambics
than that fellow," said the Reader, pausing in the middle of his cup of tea to murmur certain
Greek lines to himself. They were part of the brilliant copy of verses by which Douglas Falloden
of Marmion, in a fiercely contested year, had finally won the Ireland, Ewen Hooper being one
of the examiners.

"That's what's so abominable," said Alice, setting her small mouth. "You don't expect reading
men to drink, and get into rows."

"Drink?" said Constance Bledlow, raising her eyebrows.

Alice went into details. The dons of Marmion, she said, were really frightened by the spread
of drinking in college, all caused by the bad example of the Falloden set. She talked fast
and angrily, and her cousin listened, half scornfully, but still attentively.

"Why don't they keep him in order?" she said at last. "We did!" And she made a little gesture
with her hand, impatient and masterful, as though dismissing the subject.

And at that moment Nora came into the room, flushed either with physical exertion, or the consciousness
of her own virtue. She found a place at the tea-table, and panting a little demanded to be fed.

"It's hungry work, carrying up trunks!"

"You didn't!" exclaimed Constance, in large-eyed astonishment. "I say, I am sorry! Why did
you? I'm sure they were too heavy. Why didn't Annette get a man?"

And sitting up, she bent across the table, all charm suddenly, and soft distress.

"We did get one, but he was a wretched thing. I was worth two of him," said Nora triumphantly.
"You should feel my biceps. There!"

And slipping up her loose sleeve, she showed an arm, at which Constance Bledlow laughed. And
her laugh touched her face with something audacious--something wild--which transformed it.

"I shall take care how I offend you!"

Nora nodded over her tea.

"Your maid was shocked. She said I might as well have been a man."

"It's quite true," sighed Mrs. Hooper. "You always were such a tomboy, Nora."

"Not at all! But I wish to develop my muscles. That's why I do Swedish exercises every morning.
It's ridiculous how flabby girls are. There isn't a girl in my lecture I can't put down. If
you like, I'll teach you my exercises," said Nora, her mouth full of tea-cake, and her expression
half friendly, half patronising.

Connie Bledlow did not immediately reply. She seemed to be quietly examining Nora, as she had
already examined Alice, and that odd gleam in the eyes under depths appeared again. But at
last she said, smiling--

"Thank you. But my muscles are quite strong enough for the only exercise I want. You said I
might have a horse, Uncle Ewen, didn't you?" She turned eagerly to the master of the house.

Dr. Hooper looked at his wife with some embarrassment. "I want you to have anything you wish
for--in reason--my dear Connie; but your aunt is rather exercised about the proprieties."

The small dried-up woman behind the tea-urn said sharply:

"A girl can't ride alone in Oxford--she'd be talked about at once!"

Lady Connie flushed mutinously.

"I could take a groom, Aunt Ellen!"

"Well, I don't approve of it," said Mrs. Hooper, in the half plaintive tone of one who must
speak although no one listens. "But of course your uncle must decide."

"We'll talk it over, my dear Connie, we'll talk it over," said Dr. Hooper cheerfully. "Now
wouldn't you like Nora to show you to your room?"

The girls went upstairs together, Nora leading the way.

"It's an awful squash in your room," said Nora abruptly. "I don't know how you'll manage."

"My fault, I suppose, for bringing so many things! But where else could I put them?"

Nora nodded gravely, as though considering the excuse. The newcomer suddenly felt herself criticised
by this odd schoolgirl and resented it.

The door of the spare-room was open, and the girls entered upon a scene of chaos. Annette rose
from her knees, showing a brick-red countenance of wrath that strove in vain for any sort of
dignity. And again that look of distant laughter came into Lady Connie's eyes.

"My dear Annette, why aren't you having a rest, as I told you! I can do with anything to-night."

"Well, my lady, if you'll tell me how you'll get into bed, unless I put some of these things
away, I should be obliged!" said Annette, with a dark look at Nora. "I've asked for a wardrobe
for you, and this young lady says there isn't one. There's that hanging cupboard"--she pointed
witheringly to the curtained recess--"your dresses will be ruined there in a fortnight. And
there's that chest of drawers. Your things will have to stay in the trunks, as far as I can
see, and then you might as well sleep on them. It would give you more room!"

With which stroke of sarcasm, Annette returned to the angry unpacking of her mistress's bag.

"I must buy a wardrobe," said Connie, looking round her in perplexity. "Never mind, Annette,
I can easily buy one."

It was now Nora's turn to colour.

"You mustn't do that," she said firmly. "Father wouldn't like it. We'll find something. But
do you want such a lot of things?"

She looked at the floor heaped with every variety of delicate mourning, black dresses, thick
and thin, for morning and afternoon; and black and white, or pure white, for the evening. And
what had happened to the bed? It was already divested of the twilled cotton sheets and marcella
quilt which were all the Hoopers ever allowed either to themselves or their guests. They had
been replaced by sheets 'of the finest and smoothest linen, embroidered with a crest and monogram
in the corners, and by a coverlet of old Italian lace lined with pale blue silk; while the
down pillows at the head with their embroidered and lace-trimmed slips completed the transformation
of what had been a bed, and was now almost a work of art.

And the dressing-table! Nora went up to it in amazement. It too was spread with lace lined
with silk, and covered with a toilet-set of mother-of-pearl and silver. Every brush and bottle
was crested and initialled. The humble looking-glass, which Nora, who was something of a carpenter,
had herself mended before her cousin's arrival, was standing on the floor in a corner, and
a folding mirror framed in embossed silver had taken its place.

"I say, do you always travel with these things?" The girl stood open-mouthed, half astonished,
half contemptuous.

"What things?"

Nora pointed to the toilet-table and the bed.

Connie's expression showed an answering astonishment.

"I have had them all my life," she said stiffly. "We always took our own linen to hotels, and
made our rooms nice."

"I should think you'd be afraid of their being stolen!" Nora took up one of the costly brushes,
and examined it in wonder.

"Why should I be? They're nothing. They're just like other people's!" With a slight but haughty
change of manner, the girl turned away, and began to talk Italian to her maid.

"I never saw anything like them!" said Nora stoutly.

Constance Bledlow took no notice. She and Annette were chattering fast, and Nora could not
understand a word. She stood by awkward and superfluous, feeling certain that the maid who
was gesticulating, now towards the ceiling, and now towards the floor, was complaining both
of her own room and of the kitchen accommodation. Her mistress listened carelessly, occasionally
trying to soothe her, and in the middle of the stream of talk, Nora slipped away.

"It's horrid!--spending all that money on yourself," thought the girl of seventeen indignantly.
"And in Oxford too!--as if anybody wanted such things here."

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, she was no sooner gone than her cousin sank down on the armchair, and broke into
a slightly hysterical fit of laughter.

"Can we stand it, Annette? We've got to try. Of course you can leave me if you choose."

"And I should like to know how you'd get on then!" said Annette, grimly, beginning again upon
the boxes.

"Well, of course, I shouldn't get on at all. But really we might give away a lot of these clothes!
I shall never want them."

The speaker looked frowning at the stacks of dresses and lingerie. Annette made no reply; but
went on busily with her unpacking. If the clothes were to be got rid of, they were her perquisites.
She was devoted to Constance, but she stood on her rights.

Presently a little space was cleared on the floor, and Constance, seeing that it was nearly
seven o'clock, and the Hoopers supped at half past, took off her black dress with its crape,
and put on a white one, high to the throat and long-sleeved; a French demi-toilette, plain,
and even severe in make, but cut by the best dressmaker in Nice. She looked extraordinarily
tall and slim in it and very foreign. Her maid clasped a long string of opals, which was her
only ornament, about her neck. She gave one look at herself in the glass, holding herself proudly,
one might have said arrogantly. But as she turned away, and so that Annette could not see her,
she raised the opals, and held them a moment softly to her lips. Her mother had habitually
worn them. Then she moved to the window, and looked out over the Hoopers' private garden, to
the spreading college lawns, and the grey front beyond.

"Am I really going to stay here a whole year--nearly?" she asked herself, half laughing, half
rebellious.

Then her eye fell upon a medley of photographs; snaps from her own camera, which had tumbled
out of her bag in unpacking. The topmost one represented a group of young men and maidens standing
under a group of stone pines in a Riviera landscape. She herself was in front, with a tall
youth beside her. She bent down to look at it.

"I shall come across him I suppose--before long." And raising herself, she stood awhile, thinking;
her face alive with an excitement that was half expectation, and half angry recollection.

CHAPTER II

"My dear Ellen, I beg you will not interfere any more with Connie's riding. I have given leave,
and that really must settle it. She tells me that her father always allowed her to ride alone--with
a groom--in London and the Campagna; she will of course pay all the expenses of it out of her
own income, and I see no object whatever in thwarting her. She is sure to find our life dull
enough anyway, after the life she has been living."

"I don't know why you should call Oxford dull, Ewen!" said Mrs. Hooper resentfully. "I consider
the society here much better than anything Connie was likely to see on the Riviera--much more
respectable anyway. Well, of course, everybody will call her fast--but that's your affair.
I can see already she won't be easily restrained. She's got an uncommonly strong will of her own."

"Well, don't try and restrain her, dear, too much," laughed her husband. "After all she's twenty,
she'll be twenty-one directly. She may not be more than a twelvemonth with us. She need not
be, as far as my functions are concerned. Let's make friends with her and make her happy."

"I don't want my girls talked about, thank you, Ewen!" His wife gave an angry dig to the word
"my." "Everybody says what a nice ladylike girl Alice is. But Nora often gives me a deal of
trouble--and if she takes to imitating Connie, and wanting to go about without a chaperon,
I don't know what I shall do. My dear Ewen, do you know what I discovered last night?"

Mrs. Hooper rose and stood over her husband impressively.

"Well--what?"

"You remember Connie went to bed early. Well, when I came up, and passed her door, I noticed
something--somebody in that room was--smoking! I could not be mistaken. And this morning I
questioned the housemaid. 'Yes, ma'am,' she said, 'her ladyship smoked two cigarettes last
night, and Mrs. Tinkler'--that's the maid--'says she always smokes two before she goes to bed.'
Then I spoke to Tinkler--whose manner to me, I consider, is not at all what it should be--and
she said that Connie smoked three cigarettes a day always--that Lady Risborough smoked--that
all the ladies in Rome smoked--that Connie began it before her mother died--and her mother
didn't mind--"

"Well then, my dear, you needn't mind," exclaimed Dr. Hooper.

"I always thought Ella Risborough went to pieces--rather--in that dreadful foreign life," said
Mrs. Hooper firmly. "Everybody does--you can't help it."

"I don't know what you mean by going 'to pieces,'" said Ewen Hooper warmly. "I only know that
when they came here ten years ago, I thought her one of the most attractive--one of the most
charming women I had ever seen."

From where he stood, on the hearth-rug of his study, smoking an after-breakfast pipe, he looked
down--frowning--upon his wife, and Mrs. Hooper felt that she had perhaps gone too far. Never
had she forgotten, never had she ceased to resent her own sense of inferiority and disadvantage,
beside her brilliant sister-in-law on the occasion of that long past visit. She could still
see Ella Risborough at the All Souls' luncheon given to the newly made D.C.Ls, sitting on the
right of the Vice-Chancellor, and holding a kind of court afterwards in the library; a hat
that was little more than a wreath of forget-me-nots on her dark hair, and a long, lace cloak
draping the still young and graceful figure. She remembered vividly the soft, responsive eyes
and smile, and the court of male worshippers about them. Professors, tutors young and old,
undergraduates and heads of houses, had crowded round the mother and the long-legged, distinguished-looking
child, who clung so closely to her side; and if only she could have given Oxford a few more
days, the whole place would have been at Ella Risborough's feet. "So intelligent too!" said
the enthusiastic--"so learned even!" A member of the Roman "Accademia dei Lincei," with only
one other woman to keep her company in that august band; and yet so modest, so unpretending,
so full of laughter, and life, and sex! Mrs. Hooper, who generally found herself at these official
luncheons in a place which her small egotism resented, had watched her sister-in-law from a
distance, envying her dress, her title, her wealth, bitterly angry that Ewen's sister should
have a place in the world that Ewen's wife could never hope to touch, and irrevocably deciding
that Ella Risborough was "fast" and gave herself airs. Nor did the afternoon visit, when the
Risboroughs, with great difficulty, had made time for the family call on the Hoopers, supply
any more agreeable memories. Ella Risborough had been so rapturously glad to see her brother,
and in spite of a real effort to be friendly had had so little attention to spare for his wife!
It was true she had made much of the Hooper children, and had brought them all presents from
Italy. But Mrs. Hooper had chosen to think the laughing sympathy and evident desire to please
"affectation," or patronage, and had been vexed in her silent corner to see how little her
own two girls could hold their own beside Constance.

As for Lord Risborough, he had frankly found it difficult to remember Mrs. Hooper's identity,
while on the other hand he fell at once into keen discussion of some recent finds in the Greek
islands with Ewen Hooper, to whom in the course of half an hour it was evident that he took
a warm liking. He put up his eye-glass to look at the Hooper children; he said vaguely, "I
hope that some day you and Mrs. Hooper will descend upon us in Rome;" and then he hurried his
wife away with the audible remark--"We really must get to Blenheim, Ellie, in good time. You
promised the Duchess--"

So ill-bred--so snobbish--to talk of your great acquaintances in public! And as for Lady Risborough's
answer--"I don't care twopence about the Duchess, Hugh! and I haven't seen Ewen for six years,"--it
had been merely humbug, for she had obediently followed her husband, all the same.

Recollections of this kind went trickling through Mrs. Hooper's mind, roused by Ewen's angry
defence of his sister. It was all very well, but now the long-legged child had grown up, and
was going to put her--Ellen Hooper's--daughters in the shade, to make them feel their inferiority,
just as the mother had done with herself. Of course the money was welcome. Constance was to
contribute three hundred a year, which was a substantial addition to an income which, when
all supplemental earnings--exams, journalism, lectures--were counted, rarely reached seven
hundred. But they would be "led into expenses"--the maid was evidently a most exacting woman;
and meanwhile, Alice, who was just out, and was really quite a pretty girl, would be entirely
put in the background by this young woman with her forward manner, and her title, and the way
she had as though the world belonged to her. Mrs. Hooper felt no kinship with her whatever.
She was Ewen's blood--not hers; and the mother's jealous nature was all up in arms for her
own brood--especially for Alice. Nora could look after herself, and invariably did. Besides
Nora was so tiresome! She was always ready to give the family case away--to give everything
away, preposterously. And, apropos, Mrs. Hooper expressed her annoyance with some silly notions
Nora had just expressed to her.

"I do hope, Ewen, you won't humour and spoil Constance too much! Nora says now she's dissatisfied
with her room and wants to buy some furniture. Well, let her, I say. She has plenty of money,
and we haven't. We have given her a great deal more than we give our own daughters--"

"She pays us, my dear!"

Mrs. Hooper straightened her thin shoulders.

"Well, and you give her the advantage of your name and your reputation here. It is not as though
you were a young don, a nobody. You've made your position. Everybody asks us to all the official
things--and Connie, of course, will be asked, too."

A smile crept round Dr. Hooper's weak and pleasant mouth.

"Don't flatter yourself, Ellen, that Connie will find Oxford society very amusing after Rome
and the Riviera."

"That will be her misfortune," said Mrs. Hooper, stoutly. "Anyway, she will have all the advantages
we have. We take her with us, for instance, to the Vice-Chancellor's to-night?"

"Do we?" Dr. Hooper groaned. "By the way, can't you let me off, Ellen? I've got such a heap
of work to do."

"Certainly not! People who shut themselves up never get on, Ewen. I've just finished mending
your gown, on purpose. How you tear it as you do, I can't think! But I was speaking of Connie.
We shall take her, of course--"

"Have you asked her?"

"I told her we were all going--and to meet Lord Glaramara. She didn't say anything."

Dr. Hooper laughed.

"You'll find her, I expect, a very independent young woman--"

But at that moment his daughter Nora, after a hurried and perfunctory knock, opened the study
door vehemently, and put in a flushed face.

"Father, I want to speak to you!"

"Come in, my dear child. But I can't spare more than five minutes."

And the Reader glanced despairingly at a clock, the hands of which were pointing to half past
ten a.m. How it was that, after an eight o'clock breakfast, it always took so long for a man
to settle himself to his work he really could not explain. Not that his conscience did not
sometimes suggest the answer, pointing to a certain slackness and softness in himself--the
primal shrinking from work, the primal instinct to sit and dream--that had every day to be
met and conquered afresh, before the student actually found himself in his chair, or lecturing
from his desk with all his brains alert. Anyway, the Reader, when there was no college or university
engagement to pin him down, would stand often--"spilling the morning in recreation"; in other
words, gossiping with his wife and children, or loitering over the newspapers, till the inner
monitor turned upon him. Then he would work furiously for hours; and the work when done was
good. For there would be in it a kind of passion, a warmth born of the very effort and friction
of the will which had been necessary to get it done at all.

Nora, however, had not come in to gossip. She was in a white heat.

"Father!--we ought not to let Connie furnish her own rooms!"

"But, my dear, who thinks of her doing any such thing? What do you mean?" And Dr. Hooper took
his pipe out of his mouth, and stood protesting.

"She's gone out, she and Annette. They slipped out just now when mother came in to you; and
I'm certain they've gone to B's"--the excited girl named a well-known Oxford furniture shop--"to
buy all sorts of things."

"Well, after all, it's my house!" said the Reader, smiling. "Connie will have to ask my leave
first."

"Oh, she'll persuade you!" cried Nora, standing before her father with her hands behind her.
"She'll make us all do what she wants. She'll be like a cuckoo in the nest. She'll be too strong
for us."

Ewen Hooper put out a soothing hand, and patted his youngest daughter on the shoulder.

"Wait a bit, my dear. And when Connie comes back just ask her to step in here a moment. And
now will you both please be gone--at once?--quick once?--quick march!"

And taking his wife and daughter by the shoulders, he turned them both forcibly out, and sat
down to make his final preparations for a lecture that afternoon on the "feminism" of Euripides.

       *       *       *       *       *

