Happy would Hilland have been had he seen the vision reflected by that mirror--beauty, rich
and rare in itself, but enhanced, illumined, and made divine by the deepest, strongest, purest
emotions of the soul.

CHAPTER VII

WARREN HILLAND

The closing scenes of the preceding chapter demand some explanation. Major St. John had spent
part of the preceding summer at a seaside resort, and his daughter had inevitably attracted
not a little attention. Among those that sought her favor was Warren Hilland, and in accordance
with his nature he had been rather precipitate. He was ardent, impulsive, and, indulged from
earliest childhood, he had been spoiled in only one respect--when he wanted anything he wanted
it with all his heart and immediately. Miss St. John had seemed to him from the first a pearl
among women. As with Graham, circumstances gave him the opportunity of seeing her daily, and
he speedily succumbed to the "visitation of that power" to which the strongest must yield.
Almost before the young girl suspected the existence of his passion, he declared it. She refused
him, but he would take no refusal. Having won from her the admission that he had no favored
rival, he lifted his handsome head with a resolution which she secretly admired, and declared
that only when convinced that he had become hateful to her would he give up his suit.

He was not a man to become hateful to any woman. His frank nature was so in accord with hers
that she responded in somewhat the same spirit, and said, half laughingly and half tearfully,
"Well, if you will, you will, but I can offer no encouragement."

And yet his downright earnestness had agitated her deeply, disturbing her maiden serenity,
and awaking for the first time the woman within her heart. Hitherto her girlhood's fancies
had been like summer zephyrs, disturbing but briefly the still, clear waters of her soul; but
now she became an enigma to herself as she slowly grew conscious of her own heart and the law
of her woman's nature to love and give herself to another. But she had too much of the doughty
old major's fire and spirit, and was too fond of her freedom, to surrender easily. Both Graham
and Mrs. Mayburn were right in their estimate--she would never yield her heart unless compelled
to by influences unexpected, at first unwelcomed, but in the end overmastering.

The first and chief effect of Hilland's impetuous wooing was, as we have seen, to destroy her
sense of maidenly security, and to bring her face to face with her destiny. Then his openly
avowed siege speedily compelled her to withdraw her thoughts from man in the abstract to himself.
She could not brush him aside by a quiet negative, as she had already done in the case of several
others. Clinging to her old life, however, and fearing to embark on this unknown sea of new
experiences, she hesitated, and would not commit herself until the force that impelled was
greater than that which restrained. He at last had the tact to understand her and to recognize
that he had spoken to a girl, indeed almost a child, and that he must wait for the woman to
develop. Hopeful, almost confident, for success and prosperity had seemingly made a league
with him in all things, he was content to wait. The major had sanctioned his addresses from
the first, and he sought to attain his object by careful and skilful approaches. He had shown
himself such an impetuous wooer that she might well doubt his persistence; now he would prove
himself so patient and considerate that she could not doubt him.

When they parted at the seaside Hilland was called to the far West by important business interests.
In response to his earnest pleas, in which he movingly portrayed his loneliness in a rude mining
village, she said he might write to her occasionally, and he had written so quietly and sensibly,
so nearly as a friend might address a friend, that she felt there could be no harm in a correspondence
of this character. During the winter season their letters had grown more frequent, and he with
consummate skill had gradually tinged his words with a warmer hue. She smiled at his artifice.
There was no longer any need of it, for by the wood fire, when all the house was still and
wrapped in sleep, she had become fully revealed unto herself. She found that she had a woman's
heart, and that she had given it irrevocably to Warren Hilland.

She did not tell him so--far from it. The secret seemed so strange, so wonderful, so exquisite
in its blending of pain and pleasure, that she did not tell any one. Hers was not the nature
that could babble of the heart's deepest mysteries to half a score of confidants. To him first
she would make the supreme avowal that she had become his by a sweet compulsion that had at
last proved irresistible, and even he must again seek that acknowledgment directly, earnestly.
He was left to gather what hope he could from the fact that she did not resent his warmer expressions,
and this leniency from a girl like Grace St. John meant so much to him that he did gather hope
daily. Her letters were not nearly so frequent as his, but when they did come he fairly gloated
over them. They were so fresh, crisp and inspiring that they reminded him of the seaside breezes
that had quickened his pulses with health and pleasure during the past summer. She wrote in
an easy, gossiping style of the books she was reading; of the good things in the art and literary
journals, and of such questions of the day as would naturally interest her, and he so gratefully
assured her that by this course she kept him within the pale of civilization, that she was
induced to write oftener. In her effort to gather material that would interest him, life gained
a new and richer zest, and she learned how the kindling flame within her heart could illumine
even common things. Each day brought such a wealth of joy that it was like a new and glad surprise.
The page she read had not only the interest imparted to it by the author, but also the far
greater charm of suggesting thoughts of him or for him; and so began an interchange of books
and periodicals, with pencillings, queries, marks of approval and disapproval. "I will show
him," she had resolved, "that I am not a doll to be petted, but a woman who can be his friend
and companion."

And she proved this quite as truly by her questions, her intelligent interest in his mining
pursuits and the wild region of his sojourn, as by her words concerning that with which she
was familiar.

It was hard for Hilland to maintain his reticence or submit to the necessity of his long absence.
She had revealed the rich jewel of her mind so fully that his love had increased with time
and separation, and he longed to obtain the complete assurance of his happiness. And yet not
for the world would he again endanger his hopes by rashness. He ventured, however, to send
the copy of Emerson with the quotation already given strongly underscored. Since she made no
allusion to this in her subsequent letter, he again grew more wary, but as spring advanced
the tide of feeling became too strong to be wholly repressed, and words indicating his passion
would slip into his letters in spite of himself. She saw what was coming as truly as she saw
all around her the increasing evidences of the approach of summer, and no bird sang with a
fuller or more joyous note than did her heart at the prospect.

Graham witnessed this culminating happiness, and it would have been well for him had he known
its source. Her joyousness had seemed to him a characteristic trait, and so it was, but he
could not know how greatly it was enhanced by a cause that would have led to very different
action on his part.

Hilland had decided that he would not write to his friend concerning his suit until his fate
was decided in one way or the other. In fact, his letters had grown rather infrequent, not
from waning friendship, but rather because their mutual interests had drifted apart. Their
relations were too firmly established to need the aid of correspondence, and each knew that
when they met again they would resume their old ways. In the sympathetic magnetism of personal
presence confidences would be given that they would naturally hesitate to write out in cool blood.

Thus Graham was left to drift and philosophize at first. But his aunt was right: he could not
daily see one who so fully satisfied the cravings of his nature and coolly consider the pros
and cons. He was one who would kindle slowly, but it would be an anthracite flame that would
burn on while life lasted.

He felt that he had no reason for discouragement, for she seemed to grow more kind and friendly
every day. This was true of her manner, for, looking upon him as Hilland's best friend, she
gave him a genuine regard, but it was an esteem which, like reflected light, was devoid of
the warmth of affection that comes direct from the heart.

She did not suspect the feeling that at last began to deepen rapidly, nor had he any adequate
idea of its strength. When a grain of corn is planted it is the hidden root that first develops,
and the controlling influence of his life was taking root in Graham's heart. If he did not
fully comprehend this at an early day it is not strange that she did not. She had no disposition
to fall in love with every interesting man she met, and it seemed equally absurd to credit
the gentlemen of her acquaintance with any such tendency. Her manner, therefore, toward the
other sex was characterized by a frank, pleasant friendliness which could be mistaken for coquetry
by only the most obtuse or the most conceited of men. With all his faults Graham was neither
stupid nor vain. He understood her regard, and doubted whether he could ever change its character.
He only hoped that he might, and until he saw a better chance for this he determined not to
reveal himself, fearing that if he did so it might terminate their acquaintance.

"My best course," he reasoned, "is to see her as often as possible, and thus give her the opportunity
to know me well. If I shall ever have any power to win her love, she, by something in her manner
or tone, will unconsciously reveal the truth to me. Then I will not be slow to act. Why should
I lose the pleasure of these golden hours by seeking openly that which as yet she has not the
slightest disposition to give?"

This appeared to him a safe and judicious policy, and yet it may well be doubted whether it
would ever have been successful with Grace St. John, even had she been as fancy free as when
Hilland first met her. She was a soldier's daughter, and could best be won by Hilland's soldier-like
wooing. Not that she could have been won any more readily by direct and impetuous advances
had not her heart been touched, but the probabilities are that her heart never would have been
touched by Graham's army-of-observation tactics. It would scarcely have occurred to her to
think seriously of a man who did not follow her with an eager quest.

On the other hand, as his aunt had suggested from the first, poor Graham was greatly endangering
his peace by this close study of a woman lovely in herself, and, as he fully believed, peculiarly
adapted to satisfy every requirement of his nature. A man who knows nothing of a hidden treasure
goes unconcernedly on his way; if he discovers it and then loses it he feels impoverished.

CHAPTER VIII

SUPREME MOMENTS

Graham's visit was at last lengthened to a month, and yet the impulse of work or of departure
had not seized him. Indeed, there seemed less prospect of anything of the kind than ever. A
strong mutual attachment was growing between himself and his aunt. The brusque, quick-witted
old lady interested him, while her genuine kindness and hearty welcome gave to him, for the
first time in his life, the sense of being at home. She was a woman of strong likes and dislikes.
She had taken a fancy to Graham from the first, and this interest fast deepened into affection.
She did not know how lonely she was in her isolated life, and she found it so pleasant to have
some one to look after and think about that she would have been glad to have kept him with
her always.

Moreover, she had a lurking hope, daily gaining confirmation, that her nephew was not so indifferent
to her favorite as he seemed. In her old age she was beginning to long for kindred and closer
ties, and she felt that she could in effect adopt Grace, and could even endure the invalid
major for the sake of one who was so congenial. She thought it politic however to let matters
take their own course, for her strong good sense led her to believe that meddling rarely accomplishes
anything except mischief. She was not averse to a little indirect diplomacy, however, and did
all in her power to make it easy and natural for Graham to see the young girl as often as possible,
and one lovely day, early in June, she planned a little excursion, which, according to the
experience of her early days, promised well for her aims.

One breathless June morning that was warm, but not sultry, she went over to the St. Johns',
and suggested a drive to the brow of a hill from which there was a superb view of the surrounding
country. The plan struck the major pleasantly, and Grace was delighted. She had the craving
for out-of-door life common to all healthful natures, but there was another reason why she
longed for a day under the open sky with her thoughts partially and pleasantly distracted from
one great truth to which she felt she must grow accustomed by degrees. It was arranged that
they should take their lunch and spend the larger part of the afternoon, thus giving the affair
something of the aspect of a quiet little picnic.

Although Graham tried to take the proposition quietly, he could not repress a flush of pleasure
and a certain alacrity of movement eminently satisfactory to his aunt. Indeed, his spirits
rose to a degree that made him a marvel to himself, and he wonderingly queried, "Can I be the
same man who but a few weeks since watched the dark line of my native country loom up in the
night, and with prospects as vague and dark as that outline?"

Miss St. John seemed perfectly radiant that morning, her eyes vying with the June sunlight,
and her cheeks emulating the roses everywhere in bloom. What was the cause of her unaffected
delight? Was it merely the prospect of a day of pleasure in the woods? Could he hope that his
presence added to her zest for the occasion? Such were the questions with which Graham's mind
was busy as he aided the ladies in their preparations. She certainly was more kind and friendly
than usual-- yes, more familiar. He was compelled to admit, however, that her manner was such
as would be natural toward an old and trusted friend, but he hoped--never before had he realized
how dear this hope was becoming--that some day she would awaken to the consciousness that he
might be more than a friend. In the meantime he would be patient, and, with the best skill
he could master, endeavor to win her favor, instead of putting her on the defensive by seeking
her love.

"Two elements cannot pass into combination until there is mutual readiness," reasoned the scientist.
"Contact is not combination. My province is to watch until in some unguarded moment she gives
the hope that she would listen with her heart. To speak before that, either by word or action,
would be pain to her and humiliation to me."

The gulf between them was wide indeed, although she smiled so genially upon him. In tying up
a bundle their hands touched. He felt an electric thrill in all his nerves; she only noticed
the circumstance by saying, "Who is it that is so awkward, you or I?"

"You are Grace," he replied. "It was I."

"I should be graceless indeed were I to find fault with anything to- day," she said impulsively,
and raising her head she looked away into the west as if her thoughts had followed her eyes.

"It certainly is a very fine day," Graham remarked sententiously.

She turned suddenly, and saw that he was watching her keenly. Conscious of her secret she blushed
under his detected scrutiny, but laughed lightly, saying, "You are a happy man, Mr. Graham,
for you suggest that perfect weather leaves nothing else to be desired."

"Many have to be content with little else," he replied, "and days like this are few and far
between."

"Not few and far between for me," she murmured to herself as she moved away.

She was kinder and more friendly to Graham than ever before, but the cause was a letter received
that morning, against which her heart now throbbed. She had written to Hilland of Graham, and
of her enjoyment of his society, dwelling slightly on his disposition to make himself agreeable
without tendencies toward sentiment and gallantry.

Love is quick to take alarm, and although Graham was his nearest friend, Hilland could not
endure the thought of leaving the field open to him or to any one a day longer. He knew that
Graham was deliberate and by no means susceptible. And yet, to him, the fact conveyed by the
letter, that his recluse friend had found the society of Grace so satisfactory that he had
lingered on week after week, spoke volumes. It was not like his studious and solitary companion
of old. Moreover, he understood Graham sufficiently well to know that Grace would have peculiar
attractions for him, and that upon a girl of her mind he would make an impression very different
from that which had led society butterflies to shun him as a bore. Her letter already indicated
this truth. The natural uneasiness that he had felt all along lest some master spirit should
appear was intensified. Although Graham was so quiet and undemonstrative, Hilland knew him
to be possessed of an indomitable energy of will when once it was aroused and directed toward
an object. Thus far from Grace's letter he believed that his friend was only interested in
the girl of his heart, and he determined to forestall trouble, if possible, and secure the
fruits of his patient waiting and wooing, if any were to be gathered. At the same time he resolved
to be loyal to his friend, as far as he could admit his claims, and he wrote a glowing eulogy
of Graham, unmarred by a phrase or word of detraction. Then, as frankly, he admitted his fears,
in regard not only to Graham, but to others, and followed these words with a strong and impassioned
plea in his own behalf, assuring her that time and absence, so far from diminishing her mastery
over him, had rendered it complete. He entreated for permission to come to her, saying that
his business interests, vast as they were, counted as less than nothing compared with the possession
of her love--that he would have pressed his suit by personal presence long before had not obligations
to others detained him. These obligations he now could and would delegate, for all the wealth
of the mines on the continent would only be a burden unless she could share it with him. He
also informed her that a ring made of gold, which he himself had mined deep in the mountain's
heart, was on the way to her --that his own hands had helped to fashion the rude circlet-and
that it was significant of the truth that he sought her not from the vantage ground of wealth,
but because of a manly devotion that would lead him to delve in a mine or work in a shop for
her, rather than live a life of luxury with any one else in the world.

For the loving girl what a treasure was such a letter! The joy it brought was so overwhelming
that she was glad of the distractions which Mrs. Mayburn's little excursion promised. She wished
to quiet the tumult at her heart, so that she could write as an earnest woman to an earnest
man, which she could not do on this bright June morning, with her heart keeping tune with every
bird that sang. Such a response as she then might have made would have been the one he would
have welcomed most, but she did not think so. "I would not for the world have him know how
my head is turned," she had laughingly assured herself, not dreaming that such an admission
would disturb his equilibrium to a far greater degree.

"After a day," she thought, "out of doors with Mrs. Mayburn's genial common-sense and Mr. Graham's
cool, half-cynical philosophy to steady me, I shall be sane enough to answer."

They were soon bowling away in a strong, three-seated rockaway, well suited to country roads,
Graham driving, with the object of his thoughts and hopes beside him. Mrs. Mayburn and the
major occupied the back seat, while Jinny, with a capacious hamper, was in the middle seat,
and in the estimation of the diplomatic aunt made a good screen and division.

All seemed to promise well for her schemes, for the young people appeared to be getting on
wonderfully together. There was a constant succession of jest and repartee. Grace was cordiality
itself; and in Graham's eyes that morning there was coming an expression of which he may not
have been fully aware, or which at last he would permit to be seen. Indeed, he was yielding
rapidly to the spell of her beauty and the charm of her mind and manner. He was conscious of
a strange, exquisite exhilaration. Every nerve in his body seemed alive to her presence, while
the refined and delicate curves of her cheek and throat gave a pleasure which no statue in
the galleries of Europe had ever imparted.

He wondered at all this, for to him it was indeed a new experience. His past with its hopes
and ambitions seemed to have floated away to an indefinite distance, and he to have awakened
to a new life--a new phase of existence. In the exaltation of the hour he felt that, whatever
might be the result, he had received a revelation of capabilities in his nature of which he
had not dreamed, and which at the time promised to compensate for any consequent reaction.
He exulted in his human organism as a master in music might rejoice over the discovery of an
instrument fitted to respond perfectly to his genius. Indeed, the thought crossed his mind
more than once that day that the marvel of marvels was that mere clay could be so highly organized.
It was not his thrilling nerves alone which suggested this thought, or the pure mobile face
of the young girl, so far removed from any suggestion of earthliness, but a new feeling, developing
in his heart, that seemed so deep and strong as to be deathless.

They reached their destination in safety. The June sunlight would have made any place attractive,
but the brow of the swelling hill with its wide outlook, its background of grove and intervening
vistas, left nothing to be desired. The horses were soon contentedly munching their oats, and
yet their stamping feet and switching tails indicated that even for the brute creation there
is ever some alloy. Graham, however, thought that fortune had at last given him one perfect
day. There was no perceptible cloud. The present was so eminently satisfactory that it banished
the past, or, if remembered, it served as a foil. The future promised a chance for happiness
that seemed immeasurable, although the horizon of his brief existence was so near; for he felt
that with her as his own, human life with all its limitations was a richer gift than he had
ever imagined possible. And yet, like a slight and scarcely heard discord, the thought would
come occasionally, "Since so much is possible, more ought to be possible. With such immense
capability for life as I am conscious of to-day, how is it that this life is but a passing
and perishing manifestation?"

Such impressions took no definite form, however, but merely passed through the dim background
of his consciousness, while he gave his whole soul to the effort to make the day one that from
its unalloyed pleasure could not fail to recall him to the memory of Miss St. John. He believed
himself to be successful, for he felt as if inspired. He was ready with a quick reply to all
her mirthful sallies, and he had the tact to veil his delicate flattery under a manner and
mode of speech that suggested rather than revealed his admiration. She was honestly delighted
with him and his regard, as she understood it, and she congratulated herself again and again
that Hilland's friend was a man that she also would find unusually agreeable. His kindness
to her father had warmed her heart toward him, and now his kindness and interest were genuine,
although at first somewhat hollow and assumed.

Graham had become a decided favorite with the old gentleman, for he had proved the most efficient
ally that Grace had ever gained in quickening the pace of heavy-footed Time. Even the veteran's
chilled blood seemed to feel the influences of the day, and his gallantry toward Mrs. Mayburn
was more pronounced than usual. "We, too, will be young people once more," he remarked, "for
the opportunity may not come to us again."

They discussed their lunch with zest, they smiled into one another's face, and indulged in
little pleasantries that were as light and passing as the zephyrs that occasionally fluttered
the leaves above their heads; but deep in each heart were memories, tides of thought, hopes,
fears, joys, that form the tragic background of all human life. The old major gave some reminiscences
of his youthful campaigning. In his cheerful mood his presentation of them was in harmony with
the sunny afternoon. The bright sides of his experiences were toward his auditors, but what
dark shadows of wounds, agony, and death were on the further side! And of these he could never
be quite unconscious, even while awakening laughter at the comic episodes of war.

Mrs. Mayburn seemed her plain-spoken, cheery self, intent only on making the most of this genial
hour in the autumn of her life, and yet she was watching over a hope that she felt might make
her last days her best days. She was almost praying that the fair girl whom she had so learned
to love might become the solace of her age, and fill, in her childless heart, a place that
had ever been an aching void. Miss St. John was too preoccupied to see any lover but one, and
he was ever present, though thousands of miles away. But she saw in Graham his friend, and
had already accepted him also as her most agreeable friend, liking him all the better for his
apparent disposition to appeal only to her fancy and reason, instead of her heart. She saw
well enough that he liked her exceedingly, but Hilland's impetuous wooing and impassioned words
had made her feel that there was an infinite difference between liking and loving; and she
pictured to herself the pleasure they would both enjoy when finding that their seemingly chance
acquaintance was but preparation for the closer ties which their several relations to Hilland
could not fail to occasion.

The object of this kindly but most temperate regard smiled into her eyes, chatted easily on
any topic suggested, and appeared entirely satisfied; but was all the while conscious of a
growing need which, denied, would impoverish his life, making it, brief even as he deemed it
to be, an intolerable burden. But on this summer afternoon hope was in the ascendant, and he
saw no reason why the craving of all that was best and noblest in his nature should not be
met. When a supreme affection first masters the heart it often carries with it a certain assurance
that there must be a response, that when so much is given by a subtle, irresistible, unexpected
impulse, the one receiving should, sooner or later, by some law of correspondence, be inclined
to return a similar regard. All living things in nature, when not interfered with, at the right
time and in the right way, sought and found what was essential to the completion of their life,
and he was a part of nature. According to the law of his own individuality he had yielded to
Miss St. John's power. His reason had kept pace with his heart. He had advanced to his present
attitude toward her like a man, and had not been driven to it by the passion of an animal.
Therefore he was hopeful, self-complacent, and resolute. He not only proposed to win the girl
he loved, cost what it might in time and effort, but in the exalted mood of the hour felt that
he could and must win her.

She, all unconscious, smiled genially, and indeed seemed the very embodiment of mirth. Her
talk was brilliant, yet interspersed with strange lapses that began to puzzle him. Meanwhile
she scarcely saw him, gave him but the passing attention with which one looks up from an absorbing
story, and all the time the letter against which her heart pressed seemed alive and endowed
with the power to make each throb more glad and full of deep content.

How isolated and inscrutable is the mystery of each human life! Here were four people strongly
interested in each other and most friendly, between whom was a constant interchange of word
and glance, and yet their thought and feeling were flowing in strong diverse currents, unseen
and unsuspected.

As the day declined they all grew more silent and abstracted. Deeper shadows crept into the
vistas of memory with the old, and those who had become but memories were with them again as
they had been on like June days half a century before. With the young the future, outlined
by hope, took forms so absorbing that the present was forgotten. Ostensibly they were looking
off at the wide and diversified landscape; in reality they were contemplating the more varied
experiences, actual and possible, of life.

At last the major complained querulously that he was growing chilly. The shadow in which he
shivered was not caused by the sinking sun.

The hint was taken at once, and in a few moments they were on their way homeward. The old sportive
humor of the morning did not return. The major was the aged invalid again. Mrs. Mayburn and
Graham were perplexed, for Grace had seemingly become remote from them all. She was as kind
as ever; indeed her manner was characterized by an unusual gentleness; but they could not but
see that her thoughts were not with them. The first tumultuous torrent of her joy had passed,
and with it her girlhood. Now, as an earnest woman, she was approaching the hour of her betrothal,
when she would write words that would bind her to another and give direction to all her destiny.
Her form was at Graham's side; the woman was not there. Whither and to whom had she gone? The
question caused him to turn pale with fear.

"Miss Grace," he said at last, and there was a tinge of reproach in his voice, "where are you?
You left us some time since," and he turned and tried to look searchingly into her eyes.

She met his without confusion or rise in color. Her feelings had become so deep and earnest,
so truly those of a woman standing on the assured ground of fealty to another, that she was
beyond her former girlish sensitiveness and its quick, involuntary manifestations. She said
gently, "Pardon me, Mr. Graham, for my unsocial abstraction. You deserve better treatment for
all your efforts for our enjoyment to- day."

"Please do not come back on compulsion," he said. "I do not think I am a natural Paul Pry,
but I would like to know where you have been."

"I will tell you some day," she said, with a smile that was so friendly that his heart sprang
up in renewed hope. Then, as if remembering what was due to him and the others, she buried
her thoughts deep in her heart until she could be alone with them and their object. And yet
her secret joy, like a hidden fire, tinged all her words with a kindly warmth. Graham and his
aunt were not only pleased but also perplexed, for both were conscious of something in Grace's
manner which they could not understand. Mrs. Mayburn was sanguine that her June-day strategy
was bringing forth the much- desired results; her nephew only hoped. They all parted with cordial
words, which gave slight hint of that which was supreme in each mind.

CHAPTER IX

THE REVELATION

Graham found letters which required his absence for a day or two, and it seemed to him eminently
fitting that he should go over in the evening and say good-by to Miss St. John. Indeed he was
disposed to say more, if the opportunity offered. His hopes sank as he saw that the first floor
was darkened, and in answer to his summons Jinny informed him that the major and Miss Grace
were "po'ful tired" and had withdrawn to their rooms. He trembled to find how deep was his
disappointment, and understood as never before that his old self had ceased to exist. A month
since no one was essential to him; now his being had become complex. Then he could have crossed
the ocean with a few easily spoken farewells; now he could not go away for a few hours without
feeling that he must see one who was then a stranger. The meaning of this was all too plain,
and as he walked away in the June starlight he admitted it fully. Another life had become essential
to his own. And still he clung to his old philosophy, muttering, "If this be true, why will
not my life become as needful to her?" His theory, like many another, was a product of wishes
rather than an induction from facts.

When he returned after a long ramble, the light still burning in Miss St. John's window did
not harmonize with the story of the young girl's fatigue. The faint rays, however, could reveal
nothing, although they had illumined page after page traced full of words of such vital import
to him.

Mrs. Mayburn shared his early breakfast, and before he took his leave he tried to say in an
easy, natural manner:

"Please make my adieus to Miss St. John, and say I called to present them in person, but it
seemed she had retired with the birds. The colored divinity informed me that she was 'po'ful
tired,' and I hope you will express my regret that the day proved so exceedingly wearisome."
Mrs. Mayburn lifted her keen gray eyes to her nephew's face, and a slow rising flush appeared
under her scrutiny. Then she said gently, "That's a long speech, Alford, but I don't think
it expresses your meaning. If I give your cordial good-by to Grace and tell her that you hope
soon to see her again, shall I not better carry out your wishes?"

"Yes," was the grave and candid reply.

"I believe you are in earnest now."

"I am, indeed," he replied, almost solemnly, and with these vague yet significant words they
came to an understanding.

Three days elapsed, and still Graham's business was not completed. In his impatience he left
it unfinished and returned. How his heart bounded as he saw the familiar cottage! With hasty
steps he passed up the path from the street. It was just such another evening as that which
had smiled upon his first coming to his aunt's residence, only now there was summer warmth
in the air, and the richer, fuller promise of the year. The fragrance that filled the air,
if less delicate, was more penetrating, and came from flowers that had absorbed the sun's strengthening
rays. If there was less of spring's ecstasy in the song of the birds, there was now in their
notes that which was in truer accord with Graham's mood.

At a turn of the path he stopped short, for on the rustic seat beneath the apple-tree he saw
Miss St. John reading a letter; then he went forward to greet her, almost impetuously, with
a glow in his face and a light in his eyes which no one had ever seen before. She rose to meet
him, and there was an answering gladness in her face which made her seem divine to him.

"You are welcome," she said cordially. "We have all missed you more than we dare tell you;"
and she gave his hand a warm, strong pressure.

The cool, even-pulsed man, who as a boy had learned to hide his feelings, was for a moment
unable to speak. His own intense emotion, his all-absorbing hope, blinded him to the character
of her greeting, and led him to give it a meaning it did not possess. She, equally preoccupied
with her one thought, looked at him for a moment in surprise, and then cried, "He has told
you--has written?"

"He! who?" Graham exclaimed with a blanching face.

"Why, Warren Hilland, your friend. I told you I would tell you, but I could not before I told
him," she faltered.

He took an uncertain step or two to the tree, and leaned against it for support.

The young girl dropped the letter and clasped her hands in her distress. "It was on the drive--our
return, you remember," she began incoherently. "You asked where my thoughts were, and I said
I would tell you soon. Oh! we have both been blind. I am so--so sorry."

Graham's face and manner had indeed been an unmistakable revelation, and the frank, generous
girl waited for no conventional acknowledgment before uttering what was uppermost in her heart.

By an effort which evidently taxed every atom of his manhood, Graham gained self-control, and
said quietly, "Miss St. John, I think better of myself for having loved you. If I had known!
But you are not to blame. It is I who have been blind, for you have never shown other than
the kindly regard which was most natural, knowing that I was Hilland's friend. I have not been
frank either, or I should have learned the truth long ago. I disguised the growing interest
I felt in you from the first, fearing I should lose my chance if you understood me too early.
I am Hilland's friend. No one living now knows him better than I do, and from the depths of
my heart I congratulate you. He is the best and truest man that ever lived."

"Will you not be my friend, also?" she faltered.

He looked at her earnestly as he replied, "Yes, for life."

"You will feel differently soon," said the young girl, trying to smile reassuringly. "You will
see that it has all been a mistake, a misunderstanding; and when your friend returns we will
have the merriest, happiest times together."

"Could you soon feel differently?" he asked.

"Oh! why did you say that?" she moaned, burying her face in her hands. "If you will suffer
even in a small degree as I should!"

Her distress was so evident and deep that he stood erect and stepped toward her. "Why are you
so moved, Miss St. John?" he asked. "I have merely paid you the highest compliment within my
power."

Her hands dropped from her face, and she turned away, but not so quickly as to hide the tears
that dimmed her lustrous eyes. His lip quivered for a moment at the sight of them, but she
did not see this.

"You have merely paid me a compliment," she repeated in a low tone.

The lines of his mouth were firm now, his face grave and composed, and in his gray eyes only
a close observer might have seen that an indomitable will was resuming sway. "Certainly," he
continued, "and such compliments you have received before and would often again were you free
to receive them. I cannot help remembering that there is nothing unique in this episode."

She turned and looked at him doubtingly, as she said with hesitation, "You then regard your--your--"

"My vacation experience," he supplied.

Her eyes widened in what resembled indignant surprise, and her tones grew a little cold and
constrained as she again repeated his words.

"You then regard your experience as a vacation episode."

"Do not for a moment think I have been insincere," he said, with strong emphasis, "or that
I should not have esteemed it the chief honor of my life had I been successful--"

"As to that," she interrupted, "there are so many other honors that a man can win."

"Assuredly. Pardon me, Miss St. John, but I am sure you have had to inflict similar disappointments
before. Did not the men survive?"

The girl broke out into a laugh in which there was a trace of bitterness. "Survive!" she cried.
"Indeed they did. One is already married, and another I happen to know is engaged. I'm sure
I'm glad, however. Your logic is plain and forcible, Mr. Graham, and you relieve my mind greatly.
Men must be different from women."

"Undoubtedly."

"What did you mean by asking me, 'Could you soon feel differently?'"

He hesitated a moment and flushed slightly, then queried with a smile, "What did you mean by
saying that I should soon learn to feel differently, and that when Hilland returned we should
have the merriest times together?"

It was her turn now to be confused now; and she saw that her words were hollow, though spoken
from a kindly impulse.

He relieved her by continuing: "You probably spoke from an instinctive estimate of me. You
remembered what a cool and wary suitor I had been. Your father would say that I had adopted
an-army-of-observation tactics, and I might have remembered that such armies rarely accomplish
much. I waited for you to show some sign of weakness, and now you see that I am deservedly
punished. It is ever best to face the facts as they are."

"You appear frank, Mr. Graham, and you certainly have not studied philosophy in vain."

"Why should I not take a philosophical view of the affair? In my policy, which I thought so
safe and astute, I blundered. If from the first I had manifested the feeling"--the young girl
smiled slightly at the word--"which you inspired, you would soon have taught me the wisdom
of repressing its growth. Thus you see that you have not the slightest reason for self-censure;
and I can go on my way, at least a wiser man."

She bowed gracefully, as she said with a laugh, "I am now beginning to understand that Mr.
Graham can scarcely regret anything which adds to his stores of wisdom, and certainly not so
slight an 'affair' as a 'vacation episode.' Now that we have talked over this little misunderstanding
so frankly and rationally, will you not join us at whist to-night?"

"Certainly. My aunt and I will come over as usual."

Her brow contracted in perplexity as she looked searchingly at him for a moment; but his face
was simply calm, grave, and kindly in its expression, and yet there was something about the
man which impressed her and even awed her--something unseen, but felt by her woman's intuition.
It must be admitted that it was felt but vaguely at the time; for Grace after all was a woman,
and Graham's apparent philosophy was not altogether satisfactory. It had seemed to her as the
interview progressed that she had been surprised into showing a distress and sympathy for which
there was no occasion--that she had interpreted a cool, self-poised man by her own passionate
heart and boundless love. In brief, she feared she had been sentimental over an occasion which
Graham, as he had suggested, was able to view philosophically. She had put a higher estimate
on his disappointment than he, apparently; and she had too much of her father's spirit, and
too much womanly pride not to resent this, even though she was partially disarmed by this very
disappointment, and still more so by his self-accusation and his tribute to Hilland. But that
which impressed her most was something of which she saw no trace in the calm, self-controlled
man before her. As a rule, the soul's life is hidden, except as it chooses to reveal itself;
but there are times when the excess of joy or suffering cannot be wholly concealed, even though
every muscle is rigid and the face marble. Therefore, although there were no outward signals
of distress, Graham's agony was not without its influence on the woman before him, and it led
her to say, gently and hesitatingly, "But you promised to be my friend, Mr. Graham."

His iron will almost failed him, for he saw how far removed she was from those women who see
and know nothing save that which strikes their senses. He had meant to pique her pride as far
as he could without offence, even though he sank low in her estimation; but such was the delicacy
of her perceptions that she half divined the trouble he sedulously strove to hide. He felt
as if he could sit down and cry like a child over his immeasurable loss, and for a second feared
he would give way. There was in his eyes a flash of anger at his weakness, but it passed so
quickly that she could scarcely note, much less interpret it.

Then he stepped forward in a friendly, hearty way, and took her hand as he said: "Yes, Miss
St. John, and I will keep my promise. I will be your friend for life. If you knew my relations
to Hilland, you could not think otherwise. I shall tell him when we meet of my first and characteristic
siege of a woman's heart, of the extreme and prudent caution with which I opened my distant
parallels, and how, at last, when I came within telescopic sight of the prize, I found that
he had already captured it. My course has been so perfectly absurd that I must laugh in spite
of myself;" and he did laugh so naturally and genially that Grace was constrained to join him,
although the trouble and perplexity did not wholly vanish from her eyes.

"And now," he concluded, "that I have experienced my first natural surprise, I will do more
than sensibly accept the situation. I congratulate you upon it as no one else can. Had I a
sister I would rather that she married Hilland than any other man in the world. We thus start
on the right basis for friendship, and there need be no awkward restraint on either side. I
must now pay my respects to my aunt, or I shall lose not only her good graces but my supper
also;" and with a smiling bow he turned and walked rapidly up the path, and disappeared within
Mrs. Mayburn's open door.

Grace looked after him, and the perplexed contraction of her brow deepened. She picked up Hilland's
letter, and slowly and musingly folded it. Suddenly she pressed a fervent kiss upon it, and
murmured: "Thank God, the writer of this has blood in his veins; and yet--and yet--he looked
at first as if he had received a mortal wound, and-- and--all the time I felt that he suffered.
But very possibly I am crediting him with that which would be inevitable were my case his."

With bowed head she returned slowly and thoughtfully through the twilight to her home.

CHAPTER X

THE KINSHIP OF SUFFERING

When Graham felt that he had reached the refuge of his aunt's cottage, his self-control failed
him, and he almost staggered into the dusky parlor and sank into a chair. Burying his face
in his hands, he muttered: "Fool, fool, fool!" and a long, shuddering sigh swept through his frame.

How long he remained in this attitude he did not know, so overwhelmed was he by his sense of
loss. At last he felt a hand laid upon his shoulder; he looked up and saw that the lamp was
lighted and that his aunt was standing beside him. His face was so altered and haggard that
she uttered an exclamation of distress.

Graham hastily arose and turned down the light. "I cannot bear that you should look upon my
weakness," he said, hoarsely.

"I should not be ashamed of having loved Grace St. John," said the old lady, quietly.

"Nor am I. As I told her, I think far better of myself for having done so. A man who has seen
her as I have would be less than a man had he not loved her. But oh, the future, the future!
How am I to support the truth that my love is useless, hopeless?"

"Alford, I scarcely need tell you that my disappointment is bitter also. I had set my heart
on this thing."

"You know all, then?"

"Yes, I know she is engaged to your friend, Warren Hilland. She came over in the dusk of last
evening, and, sitting just where you are, told me all. I kept up. It was not for me to reveal
your secret. I let the happy girl talk on, kissed her, and wished her all the happiness she
deserves. Grace is unlike other girls, or I should have known about it long ago. I don't think
she even told her father until she had first written to him her full acknowledgment. Your friend,
however, had gained her father's consent to his addresses long since. She told me that."

"Oh, my awful future!" he groaned. "Alford," Mrs. Mayburn said, gently but firmly, "think of
her future. Grace is so good and kind that she would be very unhappy if she saw and heard you
now. I hope you did not give way thus in her presence."

He sprang to his feet and paced the room rapidly at first, then more and more slowly. Soon
he turned up the light, and Mrs. Mayburn was surprised at the change in his appearance.

"You are a strong, sensible woman," he began.

"Well, I will admit the premise for the sake of learning what is to follow."

"Miss St. John must never know of my sense of loss--my present despair," he said, in low, rapid
speech. "Some zest in life may come back to me in time; but, be that as it may, I shall meet
my trouble like a man. To make her suffer now--to cloud her well-merited happiness and that
of my friend--would be to add a bitterness beyond that of death. Aunt, you first thought me
cold and incapable of strong attachments, and a few weeks since I could not have said that
your estimate was far astray, although I'm sure my friendship for Hilland was as strong as
the love of most men. Until I met you and Grace it was the only evidence I possessed that I
had a heart. Can you wonder? He was the first one that ever showed me any real kindness. I
was orphaned in bitter truth, and from childhood my nature was chilled and benumbed by neglect
and isolation. Growth and change are not so much questions of time as of conditions. From the
first moment that I saw Grace St. John, she interested me deeply; and, self-complacent, self-
confident fool that I was, I thought I could deal with the supreme question of life as I had
dealt with those which half the world never think about at all. I remember your warning, aunt;
and yet, as I said to myself at the time, there was more of incentive than warning in your
words, flow self-confidently I smiled over them! How perfectly sure I was that I could enjoy
this rare girl's society as I would look at a painting or listen to a symphony! Almost before
I was aware, I found a craving in my heart which I now know all the world cannot satisfy. That
June day which you arranged so kindly in my behalf made all as clear as the cloudless sun that
shone upon us. That day I was revealed fully unto myself, but my hope was strong, for I felt
that by the very law and correspondence of nature I could not have such an immeasurable need
without having that need supplied. In my impatience I left my business unfinished and returned
this evening, for I could not endure another hour of delay. She seemed to answer my glad looks
when we met; she gave her hand in cordial welcome. I, blinded by feeling, and thinking that
its very intensity must awaken a like return, stood speechless, almost overwhelmed by my transcendent
hope. She interpreted my manner naturally by what was uppermost in her mind, and exclaimed:
'He has told you--he has written.' In a moment I knew the truth, and I scarcely think that
a knife piercing my heart could inflict a deeper pang. I could not rally for a moment or two.
When shall I forget the sympathy--the tears that dimmed her dear eyes! I have a religion at
last, and I worship the divine nature of that complete woman. The thought that I made her suffer
aroused my manhood; and from that moment I strove to make light of the affair--to give the
impression that she was taking it more seriously than I did. I even tried to pique her pride--I
could not wound her vanity, for she has none--and I partially succeeded. My task, however,
was and will be a difficult one, for her organization is so delicate and fine that she feels
what she cannot see. But I made her laugh in spite of herself at my prudent, wary wooing. I
removed, I think, all constraint, and we can meet as if nothing had happened. Not that we can
meet often--that would tax me beyond my strength--but often enough to banish solicitude from
her mind and from Hilland's. Now you know the facts sufficiently to become a shrewd and efficient
ally. By all your regard for me--what is far more, by all your love for her--I entreat you
let me bring no cloud across her bright sky. We are going over to whist as usual to- night.
Let all be as usual."

"Heaven bless you, Alford!" faltered his aunt, with tearful eyes.

"Heaven! what a mockery! Even the lichen, the insect, lives a complete life, while we, with
all our reason, so often blunder, fail, and miss that which is essential to existence."

Mrs. Mayburn shook her head slowly and thoughtfully, and then said: "This very fact should
teach us that our philosophy of life is false. We are both materialists--I from the habit of
living for this world only; you, I suppose, from mistaken reasoning; but in hours like these
the mist is swept aside, and I feel, I know, that this life cannot, must not, be all in all."

"Oh, hush!" cried Graham, desperately. "To cease to exist and therefore to suffer, may become
the best one can hope for. Were it not cowardly, I would soon end it all."

"You may well use the word 'cowardly,'" said his aunt in strong emphasis; "and brave Grace
St. John would revolt at and despise such cowardice by every law of her nature."

"Do not fear. I hope never to do anything to forfeit her respect, except it is for the sake
of her own happiness, as when to-day I tried to make her think my veins were filled with ice-water
instead of blood. Come, I have kept you far too long. Let us go through the formality of supper;
and then I will prove to you that if I have been weak here I can be strong for her sake. I
do not remember my mother; but nature is strong, and I suppose there comes a time in every
one's life when he must speak to some one as he would to a mother. You have been very kind,
dear aunt, and I shall never forget that you have wished and schemed for my happiness."

The old lady came and put her arm around the young man's neck and looked into his face with
a strange wistfulness as she said, slowly: "There is no blood relationship between us, Alford,
but we are nearer akin than such ties could make us. You do not remember your mother; I never
had a child. But, as you say, nature is strong; and although I have tried to satisfy myself
with a hundred things, the mother in my heart has never been content. I hoped, I prayed, that
you and Grace might become my children. Alford, I have been learning of late that I am a lonely,
unhappy old woman. Will you not be my boy? I would rather share your sorrow than be alone in
the world again."

Graham was deeply touched. He bowed his head upon her shoulder as if he were her son, and a
few hot tears fell from his eyes. "Yes, aunt," he said, in a low tone, "you have won the right
to ask anything that I can give. Fate, in denying us both what our hearts most craved, has
indeed made us near akin; and there can be an unspoken sympathy between us that may have a
sustaining power that we cannot now know. You have already taken the bitterness, the despair
out of my sorrow; and should I go to the ends of the earth I shall be the better for having
you to think of and care for."

"And you feel that you cannot remain here, Alford?"

"No, aunt, that is now impossible; that is, for the present."

"Yes, I suppose it is," she admitted, sadly.

"Come, aunty dear, I promised Miss St. John that we would go over as usual to-night, and I
would not for the world break my word."

"Then we shall go at once. We shall have a nice little supper on our return. Neither of us
is in the mood for it now."

After a hasty toilet Graham joined his aunt. She looked at him, and had no fears.

CHAPTER XI

THE ORDEAL

Grace met them at the door. "It is very kind of you," she said, "to come over this evening
after a fatiguing journey."

"Very," he replied, laughingly; "a ride of fifty miles in the cars should entitle one to a
week's rest."

"I hope you are going to take it."

"Oh, no; my business man in New York has at last aroused me to heroic action. With only the
respite of a few hours' sleep I shall venture upon the cars again and plunge into all the perils
and excitements of a real estate speculation. My property is going up, and 'there's a tide,'
you know, 'which, taken at its flood--'"

"Leads away from your friends. I see that it is useless for us to protest, for when did a man
ever give up a chance for speculation?"

"Then it is not the fault of man: we merely obey a general law."

"That is the way with you scientists," she said with a piquant nod and smile. "You do just
as you please, but you are always obeying some profound law that we poor mortals know nothing
about. We don't fall back upon the arrangements of the universe for our motives, do we, Mrs.
Mayburn?"

"Indeed we don't," was the brusque response. "'When she will, she will, and when she won't,
she won't,' answers for us."

"Grace! Mrs. Mayburn!" called the major from the parlor; "if you don't come soon I'll order
out the guard and have you brought in. Mr. Graham," he continued, as the young man hastened
to greet him, "you are as welcome as a leave of absence. We have had no whist since you left
us, and we are nearly an hour behind time to-night. Mrs. Mayburn, your humble servant. Excuse
me for not rising. Why the deuce my gout should trouble me again just now I can't see. I've
not seen you since that juvenile picnic which seemed to break up all our regular habits. I
never thought that you would desert me. I suppose Mr. Graham carries a roving commission and
can't be disciplined. I propose, however, that we set to at once and put the hour we've lost
at the other end of the evening."

It was evident that the major was in high spirits, in spite of his catalogue of ills; and in
fact his daughter's engagement had been extremely satisfactory to him. Conscious of increasing
age and infirmity, he was delighted that Grace had chosen one so abundantly able to take care
of her and of him also. For the last few days he had been in an amiable mood, for he felt that
fortune had dealt kindly by him. His love for his only child was the supreme affection of his
heart, and she by her choice had fulfilled his best hopes. Her future was provided for and
safe. Then from the force of long habit he thought next of himself. If his tastes were not
luxurious, he had at least a strong liking for certain luxuries, and to these he would gladly
add a few more did his means permit. He was a connoisseur in wines and the pleasures of the
table--not that he had any tendencies toward excess, but he delighted to sip the great wines
of the world, to expatiate on their age, character, and origin. Sometimes he would laughingly
say, "Never dilate on the treasures bequeathed to us by the old poets, sages, and artists,
but for inspiration and consolation give me a bottle of old, old wine--wine made from grapes
that ripened before I was born."

He was too upright a man, however, to gratify these tastes beyond his means; but Grace was
an indulgent and skilful housekeeper, and made their slender income minister to her father's
pleasure in a way that surprised even her practical friend, Mrs. Mayburn. In explanation she
would laughingly say, "I regard housekeeping as a fine art. The more limited your materials
the greater the genius required for producing certain results. Now, I'm a genius, Mrs. Mayburn.
You wouldn't dream it, would you? Papa sometimes has a faint consciousness of the fact when
he finds on his table wines and dishes of which he knows the usual cost. 'My dear,' he will
say severely, 'is this paid for?' 'Yes,' I reply, meekly. 'How did you manage it?' Then I stand
upon my dignity, and reply with offended majesty, 'Papa, I am housekeeper. You are too good
a soldier to question the acts of your superior officer.' Then he makes me a most profound
bow and apology, and rewards me amply by his almost childlike enjoyment of what after all has
only cost me a little undetected economy and skill in cookery."

But the major was not so blind as he appeared to be. He knew more of her "undetected" economies,
which usually came out of her allowance, than she supposed, and his conscience often reproached
him for permitting them; but since they appeared to give her as much pleasure as they afforded
him, he had let them pass. It is hard for a petted and weary invalid to grow in self-denial.
While the old gentleman would have starved rather than angle for Hilland or plead his cause
by a word--he had given his consent to the young man's addresses with the mien of a major-general--he
nevertheless foresaw that wealth as the ally of his daughter's affection would make him one
of the most discriminating and fastidious gourmands in the land.

In spite of his age and infirmity the old soldier was exceedingly fond of travel and of hotel
life. He missed the varied associations of the army. Pain he had to endure much of the time,
and from it there was no escape. Change of place, scene, and companionship diverted his mind,
and he partially forgot his sufferings. As we have shown, he was a devourer of newspapers,
but he enjoyed the world's gossip far more when he could talk it over with others, and maintain
on the questions of the day half a dozen good-natured controversies. When at the seashore the
previous summer he had fought scores of battles for his favorite measures with other ancient
devotees of the newspaper. Grace had made Graham laugh many a time by her inimitable descriptions
of the quaint tilts and chaffings of these graybeards, as each urged the views of his favorite
journals; and then she would say, "You ought to see them sit down to whist. Such prolonged
and solemn sittings upset my gravity more than all their bric-a-brac jokes." And then she had
sighed and said, "I wish we could have remained longer, for papa improved so much and was so
happy."

The time was coming when he could stay longer--as long as he pleased-- for whatever pleased
her father would please Grace, and would have to please her husband. Her mother when dying
had committed the old man to her care, and a sacred obligation had been impressed upon her
childish mind which every year had strengthened.

As we have seen, Grace had given her heart to Hilland by a compulsion which she scarcely understood
herself. No thrifty calculations had had the slightest influence in bringing the mysterious
change of feeling that had been a daily surprise to the young girl. She had turned to Hilland
as the flower turns to the sun, with scarcely more than the difference that she was conscious
that she was turning. When at last she ceased to wonder at the truth that her life had become
blended with that of another--for, as her love developed, this union seemed the most natural
and inevitable thing in the world--she began to think of Hilland more than of herself, and
of the changes which her new relations would involve. It became one of the purest sources of
her happiness that she would eventually have the means of gratifying every taste and whim of
her father, and could surround him with all the comforts which his age and infirmities permitted
him to enjoy.

Thus the engagement ring on Miss St. John's finger had its heights and depths of meaning to
both father and daughter; and its bright golden hue pervaded all the prospects and possibilities--the
least as well as the greatest--of the future. It was but a plain, heavy circlet of gold, and
looked like a wedding-ring. Such to Graham it seemed to be, as its sheen flashed upon his eyes
during their play, which continued for two hours or more, with scarcely a remark or an interruption
beyond the requirements of the game. The old major loved this complete and scientific absorption,
and Grace loved to humor him. Moreover, she smiled more than once at Graham's intentness. Never
had he played so well, and her father had to put forth all his veteran skill and experience
to hold his own. "To think that I shed tears over his disappointment, when a game of whist
can console him!" she thought. "How different he is from his friend! I suppose that is the
reason that they are such friends--they are so unlike. The idea of Warren playing with that
quiet, steady hand and composed face under like circumstances! And yet, why is he so pale?"

Mrs. Mayburn understood this pallor too well, and she felt that the ordeal had lasted long
enough. She, too, had acted her part admirably, but now she pleaded fatigue, saying that she
had not been very well for the last day or two. She was inscrutable to Grace, and caused no
misgivings. It is easier for a woman than for a man to hide emotions from a woman, and Mrs.
Mayburn's gray eyes and strong features rarely revealed anything that she meant to conceal.
The major acquiesced good-naturedly, saying, "You are quite right to stop, Mrs. Mayburn, and
I surely have no cause to complain. We have had more play in two hours than most people have
in two weeks. I congratulate you, Mr. Graham; you are becoming a foeman worthy of any man's steel."

Graham rose with the relief which a man would feel on leaving the rack, and said, smilingly,
"Your enthusiasm is contagious. Any man would soon be on his mettle who played often with you."

"Is enthusiasm one of your traits?" Grace asked, with an arch smile over her shoulder, as she
went to ring the bell.

"What! Have you not remarked it?"

"Grace has been too preoccupied to remark anything--sly puss!" said the major, laughing heartily.
"My dear Mrs. Mayburn, I shall ask for your congratulations tonight. I know we shall have yours,
Mr. Graham, for Grace has informed me that Hilland is your best and nearest friend. This little
girl of mine has been playing blind-man's-buff with her old father. She thought she had the
handkerchief tight over my eyes, but I always keep One corner raised a little. Well, Mr. Graham,
this dashing friend of yours, who thinks he can carry all the world by storm, asked me last
summer if he could lay siege to Grace. I felt like wringing his neck for his audacity and selfishness.
The idea of any one taking Grace from me!"

"And no one shall, papa," said Grace, hiding her blushing face behind his white shock of hair.
"But I scarcely think these details will interest--"

"What!" cried the bluff, frank old soldier--"not interest Mrs. Mayburn, the best and kindest
of neighbors? not interest Hilland's alter ego?"

"I assure you," said Graham, laughing, "that I am deeply interested; and I promise you, Miss
Grace, that I shall give Hilland a severer curtain lecture than he will ever receive from you,
because he has left me in the dark so long."

"Stop pinching my arm," cried the major, who was in one of his jovial moods, and often immensely
enjoyed teasing his daughter. "You may well hide behind me. Mrs. Mayburn, I'm going to expose
a rank case of filial deception that was not in the least successful. This 'I came, I saw,
I conquered' friend of yours, Mr. Graham, soon discovered that he was dealing with a race that
was not in the habit of surrendering. But your friend, like Wellington, never knew when he
was beaten. He wouldn't retreat an inch, but drawing his lines as close as he dared, sat down
to a regular siege."

Graham again laughed outright, and with a comical glance at the young girl, asked, "Are you
sure, sir, that Miss St. John was aware of these siege operations?"

"Indeed she was. Your friend raised his flag at once, and nailed it to the staff. And this
little minx thought that she could deceive an old soldier like myself by playing the role of
disinterested friend to a lonely young man condemned to the miseries of a mining town. I was
often tempted to ask her why she did not extend her sympathy to scores of young fellows in
the service who are in danger of being scalped every day. But the joke of it was that I knew
she was undermined and must surrender long before Hilland did."

"Now, papa, it's too bad of you to expose me in this style. I appeal to Mrs. Mayburn if I did
not keep my flag flying so defiantly to the last that even she did not suspect me."

"Yes," said the old lady, dryly; "I can testify to that."

"Which is only another proof of my penetration," chuckled the major. "Well, well, it is so
seldom I can get ahead of Grace in anything that I like to make the most of my rare good fortune;
and it seems, Mr. Graham, as if you and your aunt had already become a part of our present
and prospective home circle. I have seen a letter in which Warren speaks of you in a way that
reminds me of a friend who was shot almost at my side in a fight with the Indians. That was
nearly half a century ago, and yet no one has taken his place. With men, friendships mean something,
and last."

"Come, come," cried Mrs. Mayburn, bristling up, "neither Grace nor I will permit such an implied
slur upon our sex."

"My friendship for Hilland will last," said Graham, with quiet emphasis. "Most young men are
drawn together by a mutual liking--by something congenial in their natures. I owe him a debt
of gratitude that can never be repaid, He found me a lonely, neglected boy, who had scarcely
ever known kindness, much less affection, and his ardent, generous nature became an antidote
to my gloomy tendencies. From the first he has been a constant and faithful friend. He has
not one unworthy trait. But there is nothing negative about him, for he abounds in the best
and most manly qualities; and I think," he concluded, speaking slowly and deliberately, as
if he were making an inward vow, "that I shall prove worthy of his trust and regard."

Grace looked at him earnestly and gratefully, and the thought again asserted itself that she
had not yet gauged his character or his feeling toward herself. To her surprise she also noted
that Mrs. Mayburn's eyes were filled with tears, but the old lady was equal to the occasion,
and misled her by saying, "I feel condemned, Alford, that you should have been so lonely and
neglected in early life, but I know it was so."

"Oh, well, aunt, you know I was not an interesting boy, and had I been imposed upon you in
my hobbledehoy period, our present relations might never have existed. I must ask your congratulations
also," he continued, turning toward the major and his daughter. "My aunt and I have in a sense
adopted each other. I came hither to pay her a formal call, and have made another very dear
friend."

"Have you made only one friend since you became our neighbor?" asked Grace, with an accent
of reproach in her voice.

"I would very gladly claim you and your father as such," he replied, smilingly.

The old major arose with an alacrity quite surprising in view of his lameness, and pouring
out two glasses of the wine that Jinny had brought in answer to Grace's touch of the bell,
he gave one of the glasses to Graham, and with the other in his left hand, he said, "And here
I pledge you the word of a soldier that I acknowledge the claim in full, not only for Hilland's
sake, but your own. You have generously sought to beguile the tedium of a crotchety and irritable
old man; but such as he is he gives you his hand as a true, stanch friend; and Grace knows
this means a great deal with me."

"Yes, indeed," she cried. "I declare, papa, you almost make me jealous. You treated Warren
as if you were the Great Mogul, and he but a presuming subject. Mr. Graham, if so many new
friends are not an embarrassment of riches, will you give me a little niche among them?" "I
cannot give you that which is yours already," he replied; "nor have I a little niche for you.
You have become identified with Hilland, you know, and therefore require a large space."

"Now, see here, my good friends, you are making too free with my own peculiar property. You
are already rich in each other, not counting Mr. Hilland, who, according to Alford, seems to
embody all human excellence. I have only this philosophical nephew, and even with him shall
find a rival in every book he can lay hands upon. I shall therefore carry him off at once,
especially as he is to be absent several days."

The major protested against his absence, and was cordiality itself in his parting words.

Grace followed them out on the moonlit piazza. "Mr. Graham," she said, hesitatingly, "you will
not be absent very long, I trust."

"Oh, no," he replied, lightly; "only two or three weeks. In addition to my affairs in the city,
I have some business in Vermont, and while there shall follow down some well-remembered trout-streams."

She turned slightly away, and buried her face in a spray of roses from the bush that festooned
the porch. He saw that a tinge of color was in her cheeks, as she said in a low tone, "You
should not be absent long; I think your friend will soon visit us, and you should be here to
welcome him," and she glanced hastily toward him. Was it the moonlight that made him look so
very pale? His eyes held hers. Mrs. Mayburn had walked slowly on, and seemingly he had forgotten
her. The young girl's eyes soon fell before his fixed gaze, and her face grew troubled. He
started, and said lightly, "I beg your pardon, Miss Grace, but you have no idea what a picture
you make with the aid of those roses. The human face in clear moonlight reveals character,
it is said, and I again congratulate my friend without a shadow of doubt. Unversed as I am
in such matters, I am quite satisfied that Hilland will need no other welcome than yours, and
that he will be wholly content with it for some time to come. Moreover, when I find myself
among the trout, there's no telling when I shall get out of the woods."

"Is fishing, then, one of your ruling passions?" the young girl asked, with an attempt to resume
her old piquant style of talk with him.

"Yes," he replied, laughing, so that his aunt might hear him; "but when one's passions are
of so mild a type one may be excused for having a half-dozen. Good-by!"

She stepped forward and held out her hand. "You have promised to be my friend," she said, gently.

His hand trembled in her grasp as he said quietly and firmly, "I will keep my promise."

She looked after him wistfully, as she thought, "I'm not sure about him. I hope it's only a
passing disappointment, for we should not like to think that our happiness had brought him
wretchedness."

CHAPTER XII

FLIGHT TO NATURE

Graham found his aunt waiting for him on the rustic seat beneath the apple-tree. Here, a few
hours before, his heart elate with hope, he had hastened forward to meet Grace St. John. Ages
seemed to have passed since that moment of bitter disappointment, teaching him how relative
a thing is time.

The old lady joined him without a word, and they passed on silently to the house. As they entered,
she said, trying to infuse into the commonplace words something of her sympathy and affection,
"Now we will have a cosey little supper."

Graham placed his hand upon her arm, and detained her, as he replied, "No, aunt; please get
nothing for me. I must hide myself for a few hours from even your kind eyes. Do not think me
weak or unmanly. I shall soon get the reins well in hand, and shall then be quiet enough."

"I think your self-control has been admirable this evening."

"It was the self-control of sheer, desperate force, and only partial at that. I know I must
have been almost ghostly in my pallor. I have felt pale--as if I were bleeding to death. I
did not mean to take her hand in parting, for I could not trust myself; but she held it out
so kindly that I had to give mine, which, in spite of my whole will power, trembled. I troubled
and perplexed her. I have infused an element of sorrow and bitterness into her happy love;
for in the degree in which it gives her joy she will fear that it brings the heartache to me,
and she is too good and kind not to care. I must go away and not return until my face is bronzed
and my nerves are steel. Oh, aunt! you cannot understand me; I scarcely understand myself.
It seems as if all the love that I might have given to many in the past, had my life been like
that of others, had been accumulating for this hopeless, useless waste--this worse than waste,
since it only wounds and pains its object."

"And do I count for so little, Alford?"

"You count for more now than all others save one; and if you knew how contrary this utter unreserve
is to my nature and habit, you would understand how perfect is my confidence in you and how
deep is my affection. But I am learning with a sort of dull, dreary astonishment that there
are heights and depths of experience of which I once had not the faintest conception. This
is a kind of battle that one must fight out alone. I must go away and accustom myself to a
new condition of life. But do not worry about me. I shall come back a vertebrate;" and he tried
to summon a reassuring smile, as he kissed her in parting.

That night Graham faced his trouble, and decided upon his future course.

After an early breakfast the next morning, the young man bade his aunt good-by. With moist
eyes, she said, "Alford, I am losing you, just as I find how much you are and can be to me."

"No, aunty dear; my course will prove best for us both," he replied, gently. "You would not
be happy if you saw me growing more sad and despairing every day through inaction, and--and--well,
I could never become strong and calm with that cottage there just beyond the trees. You have
not lost me, for I shall try to prove a good correspondent."

Graham kept his word. His "real estate speculation" did not detain him long in the city, for
his business agent was better able to manage such interests than the inexperienced student;
and soon a letter dated among the mountains and the trout streams of Vermont assured Mrs. Mayburn
that he had carried out his intentions. Not long after, a box with a score of superb fish followed
the letter, and Major St. John's name was pinned on some of the largest and finest. During
the next fortnight these trophies of his sport continued to arrive at brief intervals, and
they were accompanied by letters, giving in almost journal form graphic descriptions of the
streams he had fished, their surrounding scenery, and the amusing peculiarities of the natives.
There was not a word that suggested the cause that had driven him so suddenly into the wilderness,
but on every page were evidences of tireless activity.

The major was delighted with the trout, and enjoyed a high feast almost every day. Mrs. Mayburn,
imagining that she had divined Graham's wish, read from his letters glowing extracts which
apparently revealed an enthusiastic sportsman.

After his departure Grace had resumed her frequent visits to her congenial old friend, and
confidence having now been given in respect to her absent lover, the young girl spoke of him
out of the abundance of her heart. Mrs. Mayburn tried to be all interest and sympathy, but
Grace was puzzled by something in her manner--something not absent when she was reading Graham's
letters. One afternoon she said: "Tell your father that he may soon expect something extraordinarily
fine, for Alford has written me of a twenty-mile tramp through the mountains to a stream almost
unknown and inaccessible."

"Won't you read the description to us this evening? You have no idea how much pleasure papa
takes in Mr. Graham's letters. He says they increase the gamy flavor of the fish he enjoys
so much; and I half believe that Mr. Graham in this indirect and delicate way is still seeking
to amuse my father, and so compensate him for his absence. Warren will soon be here, however,
and then we can resume our whist parties. Do you know that I am almost jealous? Papa talks
more of Vermont woods than of Western mines. You ought to hear him expatiate upon the trout.
He seems to follow Mr. Graham up and down every stream; and he explains to me with the utmost
minuteness just how the flies are cast and just where they were probably thrown to snare the
speckled beauties. By the way, Mr. Graham puzzles me. He seems to be the most indefatigable
sportsman I ever heard of. But I should never have suspected it from the tranquil weeks he
spent with us. He seemed above all things a student of the most quiet and intellectual tastes,
one who could find more pleasure in a library and laboratory than in all the rest of the world
together. Suddenly he develops into the most ardent disciple of Izaak Walton. Indeed, he is
too ardent, too full of restless activity, to be a true follower of the gentle, placid Izaak.
At his present rate he will soon overrun all Vermont;" and she looked searchingly at her friend.

A faint color stole into the old lady's cheeks, but she replied, quietly: "I have learned to
know Alford well enough to love him dearly; and yet you must remember that but a few weeks
ago he was a comparative stranger to me. He certainly is giving us ample proof of his sportsmanship,
and now that I recall it, I remember hearing of his fondness for solitary rambles in the woods
when a boy."

"His descriptions certainly prove that he is familiar with them," was the young girl's answer
to Mrs. Mayburn's words. Her inward comment on the slight flush that accompanied them was:
"She knows. He has told her; or she, less blind than I, has seen." But she felt that the admission
of his love into which Graham had been surprised was not a topic for her to introduce, although
she longed to be assured that she had not seriously disturbed the peace of her lover's friend.
A day or two later Hilland arrived, and her happiness was too deep, too complete, to permit
many thoughts of the sportsman in the Vermont forests. Nor did Hilland's brief but hearty expressions
of regret at Graham's temporary absence impose upon her. She saw that the former was indeed
more than content with her welcome; that while his friendship was a fixed star of the first
magnitude, it paled and almost disappeared before the brightness and fulness of her presence.

Grace waited for Graham to give his own confidence to his friend if he chose to do so, for
she feared that if she spoke of it estrangement might ensue. The unsuspecting major was enthusiastic
in his praises of the successful fisherman, and Hilland indorsed with emphasis all he said.
Graham's absence and Grace's reception had banished even the thought that he might possibly
find a rival in his friend, and his happiness was unalloyed.

One sultry summer evening in early July Graham returned to his aunt's residence, and was informed
that she was, as usual, at her neighbor's. He went immediately to his room to remove the dust
and stains of travel. On his table still lay the marked copy of Emerson that Grace had lent
him, and he smiled bitterly as he recalled his complacent, careless surmises over the underscored
passage, now so well understood and explained. Having finished his toilet, he gazed steadily
at his reflection in the mirror, as a soldier might have done to see if his equipment was complete.
It was evident he had not gone in vain to nature for help. His face was bronzed, and no telltale
flush or pallor could now be easily recognized. His expression was calm and resolute, indicating
nerves braced and firm. Then he turned away with the look of a man going into battle, and without
a moment's hesitancy he sought the ordeal. The windows and doors of Major St. John's cottage
were open, and as he mounted the piazza the group around the whist-table was in full view--the
major contracting his bushy eyebrows over his hand as if not altogether satisfied, Mrs. Mayburn
looking at hers with an interest so faint as to suggest that her thoughts were wandering, and
Hilland with his laughing blue eyes glancing often from his cards to the fair face of his partner,
as if he saw there a story that would deepen in its inthralling interest through life. There
was no shadow, no doubt on his wide, white brow. It was the genial, frank, merry face of the
boy who had thawed the reserve and banished the gathering gloom of a solitary youth at college,
only now it was marked by the stronger lines of early manhood. His fine, short upper lip was
clean shaven, and its tremulous curves indicated a nature quick, sensitive, and ready to respond
to every passing influence, while a full, tawny beard and broad shoulders banished all suggestion
of effeminacy. He appeared to be, what in truth he was, an unspoiled favorite of fortune, now
supremely happy in her best and latest gift. "If I could but have known the truth at first,"
sighed Graham, "I would not have lingered here until my very soul was enslaved; for he is the
man above all others to win and hold a woman's heart."

That he held the heart of the fair girl opposite him was revealed by every glance, and Graham's
heart ached with a pain hard to endure, as he watched for a moment the exquisite outlines of
her face, her wide, low brow with its halo of light-colored hair that was in such marked contrast
with the dark and lustrous eyes, now veiled by silken lashes as she looked downward intent
on the game, now beaming with the very spirit of mirth and mischief as she looked at her opponents,
and again softening in obedience to the controlling law of her life as she glanced half shyly
from time to time at the great bearded man on the other side of the table.

"Was not the world wide enough for me to escape seeing that face?" he groaned. "A few months
since I was content with my life and lot. Why did I come thousands of miles to meet such a
fate? I feared I should have to face poverty and privation for a time. Now they are my lot
for life, an impoverishment that wealth would only enhance. I cannot stay here, I will not
remain a day longer than is essential to make the impression I wish to leave;" and with a firm
step he crossed the piazza, rapped lightly in announcement of his presence, and entered without
ceremony.

Hilland sprang forward joyously to meet him, and gave him just such a greeting as accorded
with his ardent spirit. "Why, Graham!" he cried, with a crushing grasp, and resting a hand
on his shoulder at the same time, "you come unexpectedly, like all the best things in the world.
We looked for a letter that would give us a chance to celebrate your arrival as that of the
greatest fisherman of the age."

"Having taken so many unwary trout, it was quite in keeping to take us unawares," said Grace,
pressing forward with outstretched hand, for she had determined to show in the most emphatic
way that Hilland's friend was also hers.

Graham took the proffered hand and held it, while, with a humorous glance at his friend, he
said: "See here, Hilland, I hold an indisputable proof that it's time you appeared on the confines
of civilization and gave an account of yourself."

"I own up, old fellow. You have me on the hip. I have kept one secret from you. If we had been
together the thing would have come out, but somehow I couldn't write, even to you, until I
knew my fate."

"Mr. Graham," broke in the major, "if we were in the service, I should place you in charge
of the commissary department, and give you a roving commission. I have lived like a lord for
the past two weeks;" and he shook Graham's hand so cordially as to prove his heart had sympathized
with an adjacent organ that had been highly gratified.

"I have missed you, Alford," was his aunt's quiet greeting, and she kissed him as if he were
her son, causing a sudden pang as he remembered how soon he would bid her farewell again.

"Why, Graham, how you have improved! You have gained a splendid color in the woods. The only
trouble is that you are as attenuated as some of the theories we used to discuss."

"And you, giddy boy, begin to look quite like a man. Miss Grace, you will never know how greatly
you are indebted to me for my restraining influence. There never was a fellow who needed to
be sat down upon so often as Hilland. I have curbed and pruned him; indeed, I have almost brought
him up."

"He does you credit," was her reply, spoken with mirthful impressiveness, and with a very contented
glance at the laughing subject of discussion.

"Yes, Graham," he remarked, "you were a trifle heavy at times, and were better at bringing
a fellow down than up. It took all the leverage of my jolly good nature to bring you up occasionally.
But I am glad to see and hear that you have changed so happily. Grace and the major say you
have become the best of company, taking a human interest in other questions than those which
keep the scientists by the ears."

"That is because I have broken my shell and come out into the world. One soon discovers that
there are other questions, and some of them conundrums that the scientists may as well give
up at the start. I say, Hilland, how young we were over there in Germany when we thought ourselves
growing hourly into savants!"

"Indeed we were, and as sublimely complacent as we were young. Would you believe it, Mrs. Mayburn,
your nephew and I at one time thought we were on the trail of some of the most elusive secrets
of the universe, and that we should soon drag them from cover. I have learned since that this
little girl could teach me more than all the universities."

Graham shot a swift glance at his aunt, which Grace thought she detected; but he turned to
the latter, and said genially: "I congratulate you on excelling all the German doctors. I know
he's right, and he'll remember the lore obtained from you long after he has forgotten the deep,
guttural abstractions that droned on his ears abroad. It will do him more good, too."

"I fear I am becoming a subject of irony to you both," said Grace.

"They are both becoming too deep for us, are they not, Mrs. Mayburn?" put in the major. "You
obtained your best knowledge, Mr. Graham, when you trampled the woods as a boy, and though
you gathered so much of it by hook it's like the fish you killed, rare to find. If we were
in the service and I had the power, I'd have you brevetted at once, and get some fellow knocked
on the head to make a vacancy. You have been contributing royally to our mess, and now you
must take a soldier's luck with us to-night. Grace, couldn't you improvise a nice little supper?"

"Please do not let me cause any such trouble this hot evening," Graham began; "I dined late
in town, and--"

"No insubordination," interrupted Grace, rising with alacrity. "Certainly I can, papa," and
as she paused near Graham, she murmured: "Don't object; it will please papa."

She showed what a provident housekeeper she was, for they all soon sat down to an inviting
repast, of which fruit was the staple article, with cake so light and delicate that it would
never disturb a man's conscience after he retired. Then with genial words and smiles that masked
all heartache, Graham and his aunt said good-night and departed, Hilland accompanying his friend,
that he might pour out the long-delayed confidence. Graham shivered as he thought of the ordeal,
as a man might tremble who was on his way to the torture-chamber, but outwardly he was quietly
cordial.

CHAPTER XIII

THE FRIENDS

After accompanying Mrs. Mayburn to her cottage door, the friends strolled away together, the
sultry evening rendering them reluctant to enter the house. When they reached the rustic seat
under the apple- tree, Hilland remarked: "Here's a good place for our--"

"Not here," interrupted Graham, in a tone that was almost sharp in its tension.

"Why not?" asked his friend, in the accent of surprise.

"Oh, well," was the confused answer, "some one may be passing-- servants may be out in the
grounds. Suppose we walk slowly."

"Graham, you seem possessed by the very demon of restlessness. The idea of walking this hot night!"

"Oh, well, it doesn't matter," Graham replied, carelessly, although his face was rigid with
the effort; and he threw himself down on the rustic seat. "We are not conspirators that we
need steal away in the darkness. Why should I not be restless after sitting in the hot cars
all day, and with the habit of tramping fresh upon me?"

"What evil spirit drove you into the wilderness and made you the champion tramp of the country?
It seems to me you must have some remarkable confidences also."

"No evil spirit, I assure you; far from it. My tramp has done me good; indeed, I never derived
more benefit from an outing in the woods in my life. You will remember that when we were boys
at college no fellow took longer walks than I. I am simply returning to the impulses of my
youth. The fact is, I've been living too idly, and of course there would be a reaction in one
of my temperament and habits. The vital force which had been accumulating under my aunt's high
feeding and the inspiration resulting from the society of two such charming people as Major
and Miss St. John had to be expended in some way. Somehow I've lost much of my old faith in
books and laboratories. I've been thinking a great deal about it, and seeing you again has
given a strong impulse to a forming purpose. I felt a sincere commiseration when you gave up
your life of a student. I was a fool to do so. I have studied your face and manner this evening,
and can see that you have developed more manhood out in those Western mines, in your contact
with men and things and the large material interests of the world, than you could have acquired
by delving a thousand years among dusty tomes."

"That little girl over there has done more for me than Western mines and material interests."

"That goes without saying; and yet she could have done little for you, had you been a dawdler.
Indeed, in that case she would have had nothing to do with you. She recognized that you were
like the gold you are mining--worth taking and fashioning; and I tell you she is not a girl
to be imposed upon."

"Flatterer!"

"No; friend."

"You admire Grace very much."

"I do indeed, and I respect her still more. You know I never was a lady's man; indeed, the
society of most young women was a weariness to me. Don't imagine I am asserting any superiority.
You enjoyed their conversation, and you are as clever as I am."

"I understand," said Hilland, laughing; "you had nothing in common. You talked to a girl as
if she were a mile off, and often broached topics that were cycles away. Now, a girl likes
a fellow to come reasonably close--metaphorically, if not actually--when he chats with her.
Moreover, many that you met, if they had brains, had never cultivated them. They were as shallow
as a duck-pond, and with their small deceits, subterfuges, and affectations were about as transparent.
Some might imagine them deep. They puzzled and nonplussed you, and you slunk away. Now I, while
rating them at their worth, was able from previous associations to talk a little congenial
nonsense, and pass on. They amused me, too. You know I have a sort of laughing philosophy,
and everything and everybody amuses me. The fellows would call these creatures angels, and
they would flap their little butterfly wings as if they thought they were. How happened it
that you so soon were en rapport with Grace?"

"Ah, wily wretch!" Graham laughed gayly, while the night hid his lowering brows; "praise of
your mistress is sweeter than flattery to yourself. Why, simply because she is Grace St. John.
I imagine that it is her army life that has so blended unconventionality with perfect good
breeding. She is her bluff, honest, high-spirited old father over again, only idealized, refined,
and womanly. Then she must have inherited some rare qualities from her Southern mother: you
see my aunt has told me all about them. I once met a Southern lady abroad, and although she
was middle-aged, she fascinated me more than any girl I had ever met. In the first place, there
was an indescribable accent that I never heard in Europe--slight, indeed, but very pleasing
to the ear. I sometimes detect traces of it in Miss St. John's speech. Then this lady had a
frankness and sincerity of manner which put you at your ease at once; and yet with it all there
was a fine reserve. You no more feared that she would blurt out something unsanctioned by good
taste than that she would dance a hornpipe. She was singularly gentle and retiring in her manner;
and yet one instinctively felt he would rather insult a Southern fire-eater than offend her.
She gave the impression that she had been accustomed to a chivalric deference from men, rather
than mere society attentions; and one unconsciously infused a subtle homage in his very accent
when speaking to her. Now, I imagine that Miss St. John's mother must have been closely akin
to this woman in character. You know my weakness for analyzing everything. You used to say
I couldn't smoke a cigar without going into the philosophy of it. I had not spent one evening
in the society of Miss St. John before I saw that she was a rara avis. Then her devotion to
her invalid father is superb. She enlisted me in his service the first day of my arrival. Although
old, crippled, often racked with pain, and afflicted with a temper which arbitrary command
has not improved, she beguiles him out of himself, smiles away his gloom--in brief, creates
so genial an atmosphere about him that every breath is balm, and does it all, too, without
apparent effort You see no machinery at work. Now, this was all a new and very interesting
study of life to me, and I studied it. There, too, is my aunt, who is quite as interesting
in her way. Such women make general or wholesale cynicism impossible, or else hypocritical;"
and he was about to launch out into as extended an analysis of the old lady's peculiarities,
when Hilland interrupted him with a slap on the shoulder and a ringing laugh.

"Graham, you haven't changed a mite. You discourse just as of old, when in our den at the university
we befogged ourselves in the tobacco-smoke and the denser obscurities of German metaphysics,
only your theme is infinitely more interesting. Now, when I met my paragon, Grace, whom you
have limned with the feeling of an artist rather than of an analyst, although with a blending
of both, I fell in love with her."

"Yes, Hilland, it's just like you to fall in love. My fear has ever been that you would fall
in love with a face some day, and not with a woman. But I now congratulate you from the depths
of my soul."

"How comes it that you did not fall in love with one whom you admire so much? You were not
aware of my suit."

"I suppose it is not according to my nature to 'fall in love,' as you term it. The very phrase
is repugnant to me. When a man is falling in any sense of the word, his reason is rather apt
to be muddled and confused, and he cannot be very sure where he will land. If you had not appeared
on the scene my reason would have approved of my marriage with Miss St. John--that is, if I
had seen the slightest chance of acceptance, which, of course, I never have. I should be an
egregious fool were it otherwise."

"How about your heart?"

"The heart often leads to the sheerest folly," was the sharp rejoinder.

Hilland laughed in his good-humored way. His friend's reply seemed the result of irritation
at the thought that the heart should have much to say when reason demurred. "Well, Graham,"
he said, kindly and earnestly, "if I did not know you so well, I should say you were the most
cold-blooded, frog-like fellow in existence. You certainly are an enigma to me on the woman
question. I must admit that my heart went headlong from the first; but when at last reason
caught up, and had time to get her breath and look the case over, she said it was 'all right'--far
better than she had expected. To one of my temperament, however, it seems very droll that reason
should lead the way to love, and the heart come limping after."

"Many a one has taken the amatory tumble who would be glad to reason his way up and back. But
we need not discuss this matter in the abstract, for we have too much that is personal to say
to each other. You are safe; your wonted good fortune has served you better than ever. All
the wisdom of Solomon could not have enabled you to fall in love more judiciously. Indeed,
when I come to think of it, the wisdom of Solomon, according to history, was rather at fault
in these matters. Tell me how it all came about" (for he knew the story must come); "only outline
the tale to-night. I've been speculating and analyzing so long that it is late; and the major,
hearing voices in the grounds, may bring some of his old army ordnance to bear on us."

But Hilland, out of the abundance of his heart, found much to say; and his friend sat cold,
shivering in the sultry night, his heart growing more despairing as he saw the heaven of successful
wooing that he could never enter. At last Hilland closed with the words, "I say, Graham, are
you asleep?"

"Oh, no," in a husky voice.

"You are taking cold."

"I believe I am."

"I'm a brute to keep you up in this style. As I live, I believe there is the tinge of dawn
in the east."

"May every dawn bring a happy day to you, Warren," was said so gently and earnestly that Hilland
rested his arm on his friend's shoulder as he replied, "You've a queer heart, Alford, but such
as it is I would not exchange it for that of any man living." Then abruptly, "Do you hold to
our old views that this life ends all?"

A thrill of something like exultation shot through Graham's frame as he replied, "Certainly."

Hilland sprang up and paced the walk a moment, then said, "Well, I don't know. A woman like
Grace St. John shakes my faith in our old belief. It seems profanation to assert that she is
mere clay."

The lurid gleam of light which the thought of ceasing to exist and to suffer had brought to
Graham faded. It did seem like profanation. At any rate, at that moment it was a hideous truth
that such a creature might by the chance of any accident resolve into mere dust. And yet it
seemed a truth which must apply to her as well as to the grossest of her sisterhood. He could
only falter, "She is very highly organized."

They both felt that it was a lame and impotent conclusion.

But the spring of happiness was in Hilland's heart. The present was too rich for him to permit
such dreary speculations, and he remarked cordially and laughingly, "Well, Graham, we have
made amends for our long separation and silence. We have talked all the summer night. I am
rich, indeed, in such a friend and such a sweetheart; and the latter must truly approach perfection
when my dear old philosopher of the stoic school could think it safe and wise to marry her,
were all the conditions favorable. You don't wish that I was at the bottom of one of my mines,
do you, Alford?"

Graham felt that the interview must end at once, so he rose and said, "No, I do not. My reason
approves of your choice. If you wish more, my 'queer heart, such as it is,' approves of it
also. If I had the power to change everything this moment I would not do so. You have fairly
won your love, and may all the forces of nature conspire to prosper you both. But come," he
added in a lighter vein, "Miss St. John may be watching and waiting for your return, and even
imagining that I, with my purely intellectual bent, may regard you as a disturbing element
in the problem, and so be led to eliminate you in a quiet, scientific manner."

"Well, then, good night, or morning, rather. Forgive a lover's garrulousness."

"I was more garrulous than you, without half your excuse. No, I'll see you safely home. I wish
to walk a little to get up a circulation. With your divine flame burning so brightly, I suppose
you could sit through a zero night; but you must remember that such a modicum of philosophy
as I possess will not keep me warm. There, good-by, old fellow. Sleep the sleep of the just,
and, what is better in this chance-medley world, of the happy. Don't be imagining that you
have any occasion to worry about me."

Hilland went to his room in a complacent mood, and more in love than ever. Had not his keen-eyed,
analytical friend, after weeks of careful observation, testified to the exceeding worth of
the girl of his heart? He had been in love, and he had ever heard that love is blind. It seemed
to him that his friend could never love as he understood the word; and yet the peerless maiden
had so satisfied the exactions of Graham's taste and reason, and had proved herself so generally
admirable, that he felt it would be wise and advantageous to marry her.

"It's a queer way of looking at these things," he concluded, with a shrug, "but then it is
Graham's way."

Soon he was smiling in his repose, for the great joy of his waking hours threw its light far
down into the obscurity of sleep.

Graham turned slowly away, and walked with downcast face to the rustic seat. He stood by it
a moment, and then sank into it like a man who has reached the final limit of human endurance.
He uttered no sound, but at brief intervals a shiver ran through his frame. His head sank into
his hands, and he looked and felt like one utterly crushed by a fate from which there was no
escape. His ever-recurring thought was, "I have but one life, and it's lost, worse than lost.
Why should I stagger on beneath the burden of an intolerable existence, which will only grow
heavier as the forces of life fail?"

At last in his agony he uttered the words aloud. A hand was laid upon his shoulder, and a husky,
broken voice said, "Here is one reason."

He started up, and saw that his aunt stood beside him.

The dawn was gray, but the face of the aged woman was grayer and more pallid. She did not entreat--her
feeling seemed too deep for words-- but with clasped hands she lifted her tear-dimmed eyes
to his. Her withered bosom rose and fell in short, convulsive sobs, and it was evident that
she could scarcely stand.

His eyes sank, and a sudden sense of guilt and shame at his forgetfulness of her overcame him.
Then yielding to an impulse, all the stronger because mastering one who had few impulses, he
took her in his arms, kissed her repeatedly, and supported her tenderly to the cottage. When
at last they reached the quaint little parlor he placed her tenderly in her chair, and, taking
her hand, he kissed it, and said solemnly, "No, aunty, I will not die. I will live out my days
for your sake, and do my best."

"Thank God!" she murmured--"thank God!" and for a moment she leaned her head upon his breast
as he knelt beside her. Suddenly she lifted herself, with a return of her old energy; and he
rose and stood beside her. She looked at him intently as if she would read his thoughts, and
then shook her finger impressively as she said, "Mark my words, Alford, mark my words: good
will come of that promise."

"It has come already," he gently replied, "in that you, my best friend, are comforted. Now
go and rest and sleep. Have no fear, for your touch of love has broken all evil spells."

Graham went to his room, calmed by an inflexible resolution. It was no longer a question of
happiness or unhappiness, or even of despair; it was simply a question of honor, of keeping
his word. He sat down and read once more the paragraph in the marked copy of Emerson, "No man
ever forgot--" He gave the words a long, wistful look, and then closed the volume as if he
were closing a chapter of his life.

"Well," he sighed, "I did my best last night not to dispel their enchantment, for of course
Hilland will tell her the substance of our talk. Now, it must be my task for a brief time to
maintain and deepen the impression that I have made."

Having no desire for sleep, he softly paced his room, but it was not in nervous excitement.
His pulse was quiet and regular, and his mind reverted easily to a plan of extended travel
upon which he had been dwelling while in the woods. At last he threw himself upon his couch,
and slept for an hour or two. On awaking he found that it was past the usual breakfast hour,
and after a hasty toilet he went in search of his aunt, but was informed that she was still
sleeping.

"Do not disturb her," he said to the servant. "Let her sleep as long as she will."

He then wrote a note, saying that he had decided to go to town to attend to some business which
had been neglected in his absence, and was soon on his way to the train.

CHAPTER XIV

NOBLE DECEPTION

In the course of the forenoon Hilland called on his friend, and was informed that Graham had
gone to the city on business, but would return in the evening. He also learned that Mrs. Mayburn
was indisposed, and had not yet risen. At these tidings Grace ran over to see her old friend,
hoping to do something for her comfort, and the young girl was almost shocked when she saw
Mrs. Mayburn's pinched and pallid face upon her pillow. She seemed to have aged in a night.

"You are seriously ill!" she exclaimed, "and you did not let me know. Mr. Graham should not
have left you."

"He did not know," said the old lady, sharply, for the slightest imputation against Graham
touched her keenly. "He is kindness itself to me. He only heard this morning that I was sleeping,
and he left word that I should not be disturbed. He also wrote a note explaining the business
which had been neglected in his absence. Oh, I assure you, no one could be more considerate."

"Dear, loyal Mrs. Mayburn, you won't hear a word against those you love. I think Mr. Graham
wonderfully considerate for a man. You know we should not expect much of men. I have to manage
two, and it keeps me busy, but never so busy that I cannot do all in my power for my dear old
friend. I'll get your breakfast myself, and bring it to you with my own hands, and force it
upon you with the inexorable firmness of Sairy Gamp;" and she vanished to the kitchen.

The old lady turned her face to the wall and moaned, "Oh, if it could only have been! Why is
it that we so often set our hearts on that which is denied? After a long, dull sleep of years
it seemed as if my heart had wakened in my old age only to find how poor and lonely I am. Alford
cannot stay with me--I could not expect it--neither can Grace; and so I must go on alone to
the end. I'm punished, punished that years ago I did not make some one love me; but I was self-sufficient
then."

Her regret was deepened when Grace returned with a dainty breakfast, and waited on her with
a daughter's gentleness and tenderness, making her smile in spite of herself at her funny speeches,
and beguiling her into enjoyment of the present moment with a witchery that none could resist.

Presently Mrs. May burn sighed, "It's a fearfully hot day for Alford to be in town."

"For a student," cried Grace, "he is the most indefatigable man I ever heard of. Warren told
me that they sat out there under the apple-tree and poured out their hearts till dawn. Talk
about schoolgirls babbling all night. My comment on Warren's folly was a dose of quinine. It's
astonishing how these savants, these intellectual giants, need taking care of like babies.
Woman's mission will never cease as long as there are learned men in the world. They will sit
in a draught and discuss some obscure law concerning the moons of Jupiter; but when the law
resulting in influenza manifests itself, then they learn our worth."

"Oh, dear!" groaned Mrs. Mayburn, "I didn't give Alford any quinine. You were more provident
than I."

"How could you, when you were asleep?"

"Ah, true!" was the confused reply. "But then I should have been awake. I should have remembered
that he did not come in when I did last night."

The faint color that stole into the face that had been so pale gave some surprise to the young
girl. When once her mind was directed to a subject her intuitions were exceedingly keen.

From the time the secret of his regard for her had been, surprised from him, Graham had been
a puzzle to her. Was he the cool, philosophical lover that he would have her think? Hilland
was so frank in nature and so wholly under her influence that it was next to impossible for
him not to share with her his every thought. She had, therefore, learned substantially the
particulars of last night's interview, and she could not fully accept his belief that Graham's
intellect alone had been captivated. She remembered how he had leaned against the tree for
support; how pale he had been during the evening that followed; and how his hand had trembled
in parting. She remembered his sudden flight to the mountains, his tireless energy there, as
if driven on by an aching wound that permitted no rest. True, he had borne himself strongly
and well in her presence the evening before; and he had given the friend who knew him so well
the impression that it was merely an instance of the quiet weighing of the pros and cons, in
which, after much deliberation, the pros had won. There had been much in his course, too, to
give color to this view of the case; but her woman's instinct suggested that there was something
more--something she did not know about; and she would have been less or more than woman had
she not wished to learn the whole truth in a matter of this nature. She hoped that her lover
was right, and that Graham's heart, in accordance with his development theory, was so inchoate
as to be incapable of much suffering. She was not sure, however. There was something she surmised
rather than detected. She felt it now in Mrs. Mayburn's presence, and caught a glimpse of it
in the flush that was fading from her cheeks. Had the nephew given his aunt his confidence?
or had she with her ripe experience and keen insight discovered the ultimate truth?

It was evident that while Mrs. Mayburn still loved her dearly, and probably was much disappointed
that things had turned out as they had, she had given her loyalty to Graham, and would voluntarily
neither do nor say anything that would compromise him. The slight flush suggested to Grace
that the aunt had awaited the nephew's return in the early dawn, and that they had spoken freely
together before separating; but she was the last one in the world to attempt to surprise a
secret from another.

Still she wished to know the truth, for she felt a little guilty over her reticence in regard
to her relations with Hilland. She, perhaps, had made too much of the luxury of keeping her
secret until it could shine forth as the sun of her life; and Graham had been left in an ignorance
that had not been fair to him. With a growing perception of his character, now that she had
given thought to the subject, she saw that if he had learned to love her at all, it must have
been in accordance with his nature, quietly, deliberately, even analytically. He was the last
man to fall tumultuously in love. But when he had given it in his own way, could she be sure
it was a cool, easily managed preference that he might at his leisure transfer to another who
satisfied his reason and taste even more fully than herself? If this were true, her mind would
be at rest; and she could like Hilland's friend heartily, as one of the most agreeable human
oddities it had been her fortune to meet. She had serious misgivings, however, which Mrs. Mayburn's
sudden indisposition, and the marks of suffering upon her face, did not tend to banish.

Whatever the truth might be, she felt that he had shown much thoughtfulness for her in his
frankness with Hilland. He had rendered it unnecessary for her to conceal her knowledge of
his regard. She need have no secrets, so far as he was concerned. The only question was as
to the nature of this regard. If the impression he sought to give her lover was correct, neither
of them had cause for much solicitude. If to save them pain he was seeking to hide a deeper
wound, it was a noble deception, and dictated by a noble, unselfish nature. If the latter supposition
should prove true, she felt that she would discover it without any direct effort. But she also
felt that her lover should be left, if possible, under the impression his friend had sought
to make, and that Graham should have the solace of thinking he had concealed his feelings from
them both.

As the long evening shadows stretched eastward across the sloping lawn in front of the St.
John cottage, the family gathered on the piazza to enjoy the welcome respite from the scorching
heat of the day.

The old major looked weary and overcome. A July sun was the only fire before which he had ever
flinched. Hilland still appeared a little heavy from his long hot afternoon nap, his amends
for the vigils of the previous night. Grace was enchanting in her light clinging draperies,
which made her lovely form tenfold more beautiful, because clothed in perfect taste. The heat
had deepened the flush upon her cheeks, and brought a soft languor into her eyes, and as she
stood under an arch of the American woodbine, that mantled the supports of the piazza roof,
she might easily have fulfilled an artist's dream of summer. Hilland's eyes kindled as he looked
upon her, as she stood with averted face, conscious meanwhile of his admiration, and exulting
in it. What sweeter incense is ever offered to a woman?

"Grace," he whispered, "you would create a pulse in a marble statue to-night. You never looked
more lovely."

"There is a glamour on your eyes, Warren," she replied; and yet the quick flash of joy that
came into her face proved the power of his words, which still had all the exquisite charm of
novelty.

"It's the glamour that will last while I do," he responded, earnestly. "Are not this scene
and hour perfect? and you are the gem of it all. I don't see how a man could ask or wish for
more than I have to-night, except that it might last forever." A shadow passed over his face,
and he added, presently, "To think that after a few weeks I must return to those blasted mines!
One thing is settled, however. I shall close out my interests there as speedily as possible;
and were it not for my obligations to others, I'd never go near them again. I have money enough
twice over, and am a fool to miss one hour with you."

"You will be all the happier, Warren, if you close up your interests in the West in a manly,
business-like way. I always wish to be as proud of you as I am now. What's more, I don't believe
in idle men, no matter how rich they are. I should be worried at once if you had nothing to
do but sit around and make fine speeches. You'd soon weary of the sugar-plum business, and
so should I. I have read somewhere that the true way to keep a man a lover is to give him plenty
of work."

"Will you choose my work for me?"

"No; anything you like, so it is not speculation."

"I think I'll come and be your father's gardener."

"If you do," she replied, with a decisive little nod, "you will have to rake and hoe so many
hours a day before you can have any dinner."

"But you, fair Eve, would bring your fancy-work, and sit with me in the shade."

"The idea of a gardener sitting in the shade, with weeds growing on every side."

"But you would, my Eve."

"Possibly, after I had seen that you had earned your bread by the 'perspiration of your brow,'
as a very nice maiden lady, a neighbor of ours, always phrases it."

"That shall be my calling as soon as I can get East again. Major, I apply for the situation
of gardener as soon as I can sell out my interests in the mines."

"I have nothing to do with it," was the reply. "Grace commands this post, and while here you
are under her orders."

"And you'll find out, too, what a martinet I am," she added. "There's no telling how often
I'll put you under arrest and mount guard over you myself. So!"

"What numberless breaches of discipline there will be!"

Lovers' converse consists largely in tone and glance, and these cannot be written; and were
this possible, it could have but the slenderest interest to the reader.

After a transient pause Hilland remarked: "Think of poor Graham in the fiery furnace of New
York to-day. I can imagine what a wilted and dilapidated-looking specimen he will be if he
escapes alive--By Jove, there he is!" and the subject of his speech came as briskly up the
walk as if the thermometer had been in the seventies instead of the nineties. His dress was
quiet and elegant, and his form erect and step elastic.

As he approached the piazza and doffed his hat, Hilland cried: "Graham, you are the coolest
fellow I ever saw. I was just commiserating you, and expecting you to look like a cabbage--no,
rose- leaf that had been out in the sun; and you appear just as if you had stepped from a refrigerator."

"All a matter of temperament and will, my dear fellow. I decided I would not be hot to-day;
and I've been very comfortable."

"Why did you not decide not to be cold last night?"

"I was so occupied with your interminable yarns that I forgot to think about it. Miss Grace,
for your sake and on this evening, I might wish that there was a coolness between us, but from
your kind greeting I see there is not. Good-evening, major; I have brought with me a slight
proof that I do not forget my friends;" and he handed him a large package of newspapers, several
of them being finely illustrated foreign prints.

"I promote you on the spot," cried the delighted veteran. "I felt that fate owed me some amends
for this long, horrid day. My paper did not come this morning, and I had too much regard for
the lives of my household to send any one up the hot streets after one."

"Oh, papa!" cried Grace, "forgive me that I did not discover the fact. I'm sure I saw you reading
a paper."

"It was an old one. I read it through again, advertisements and all. Oh, I know you. You'd
have turned out the whole garrison at twelve M., had you found it out."

Graham dropped carelessly into an easy-chair, and they all noted the pleasure with which the
old gentleman adjusted his glasses, and scanned the pictures of the world's current history.
Like many whose sight is failing, and to whom the tastes and memories of childhood are returning,
the poor old man found increasing delight in a picture which suggested a great deal, and aided
him to imagine more; and he would often beguile his tedium by the hour with the illustrated
journals.

"Mr. Graham," said Grace, after a pause in their talk, "have you seen your aunt since your return?"

"No," he replied, turning hastily toward her.

"She is not very well; I've been to see her twice."

He gave her a momentary but searching glance, rose instantly, and said: "Please excuse me,
then. I feel guilty that I have delayed a moment, but this piazza was so inviting!" and he
hastened away.

"Does he look and act like a man who 'hid a secret sorrow'?" whispered Hilland, confidently.
"I never saw him appear so well before."

Grace smiled, but kept her thoughts to herself. To her also Graham had never appeared so well.
There was decision in his step and slightest movement. The old easy saunter of leisure was
gone; the old half- dreamy and slightly cynical eyes of the student showed a purpose which
was neither slight nor indefinite; and that brief, searching glance-- what else could it be
than a query as to the confidences his aunt may have bestowed during the day? Moreover, why
did he avoid looking at her unless there was distinct occasion for his glance?

She would have known too well had she heard poor Graham mutter: "My will must be made of Bessemer
steel if I can see her often as she looked to-night and live."

In the evening Hilland walked over to call on his friend and make inquiries. Through the parlor
windows he saw Graham reading to his aunt, who reclined on a lounge; and he stole away again
without disturbing them.

The next few days passed uneventfully away, and Graham's armor was almost proof against even
the penetration of Grace. He did not assume any mask of gayety. He seemed to be merely his
old self, with a subtle difference, and a very unobtrusive air of decision in all his movements.
He was with his friend a great deal; and she heard them talking over their old life with much
apparent zest. He was as good company for the major as ever, and when a whist played so good
a game as to show that he was giving it careful attention. There was a gentleness toward his
aunt that rather belied his character of stoic philosopher. Indeed, he seemed to have dropped
this phase also, and was simply a well-bred man of the world, avoiding reference to himself,
and his past or present views, as far as possible.

To a question of Hilland's one day he replied: "No; I shall not go back to my studies at present.
As I told you the other night, my excursion into the world has shown me the advantage of studying
it more fully. While I shall never be a Croesus like yourself, I am modestly independent; and
I mean to see the world we live in, and then shall know better what I am studying about."

When Hilland told Grace of this purpose, she felt it was in keeping with all the rest. It might
mean what was on the surface; it might mean more. It might be a part of the possible impulse
that had driven him into the Vermont woods, or the natural and rational step he would have
taken had he never seen her. At any rate, she felt that he was daily growing more remote, and
that by a nice gradation of effort he was consciously withdrawing himself. And yet she could
scarcely dwell on a single word or act, and say: "This proves it." His manner toward her was
most cordial. When they conversed he looked at her steadily and directly, and would respond
in kind to her mirthful words and Hilland's broad raillery; but she never detected one of the
furtive, lingering glances that she now remembered with compunction were once frequent. It
was quite proper that this should be so, but it was unnatural. If hitherto she had only pleased
his taste and satisfied his reason, it would be a safe and harmless pastime for him to linger
near her still in thought and reality. If he was struggling with a passion that had struck
its root deep, then there was good reason for that steady withdrawal from her society which
he managed so naturally that no one observed it but herself. Hilland had no misgivings, and
she suggested none; but whenever she was in the presence of Graham or Mrs. Mayburn, although
their courtesy and kind manner were unexceptionable, she felt there was "something in the air."

CHAPTER XV

"I WISH HE HAD KNOWN"

The heat continued so oppressive that the major gave signs of prostration, and Grace decided
to take him to his old haunt by the seashore. The seclusion of their cottage was, of course,
more agreeable to Hilland and herself under the circumstances; but Grace never hesitated when
her father was concerned. Shortly after the decision was reached, Hilland met his friend, and
promptly urged that he and Mrs. Mayburn should accompany them.

"Certainly," was the quiet reply, "if my aunt wishes to go."

But for some cause, if not for the reasons given, the old lady was inexorable that evening,
even though the major with much gallantry urged her compliance. She did not like the seashore.
It did not agree with her; and, what was worse, she detested hotels. She was better in her
own quiet nook, etc. Alford might go, if he chose.

But Graham when appealed to said it was both his duty and his pleasure to remain with his aunt,
especially as he was going abroad as soon as he could arrange his affairs. "Don't put on that
injured air," he added, laughingly, to Hilland. "As if you needed me at present! You two are
sufficient for yourselves; and why should I tramp after you like the multitude I should be?

"What do you know about our being sufficient for our-selves, I'd like to ask?" was the bantering
response.

"I have the best authority for saying what I do--written authority, and that of a sage, too.
Here it is, heavily under-scored by a hand that I imagine is as heavy as your own. Ah! Miss
Grace's conscious looks prove that I am right," he added, as he laid the open volume of Emerson,
which he had returned, before her. "I remember reading that paragraph the first evening I came
to my aunt's house; and I thought it a very curious statement. It made me feel as if I were
a sort of polyp or mollusk, instead of a man."

"Let me see the book," cried Hilland. "Oh, yes," he continued, laughing; "I remember it all
well--the hopes, the misgivings with which I sent the volume eastward on its mission--the hopes
and fears that rose when the book was acknowledged with no chidings or coldness, and also with
no allusions to the marked passage--the endless surmises as to what this gentle reader would
think of the sentiments within these black lines. Ha! ha! Graham. No doubt but this is Sanscrit;
and all the professors of all the universities could not interpret it to you."

"That's what I said in substance on the evening referred to--that Emerson never learned this
at a university. I confess that it's an experience that is and ever will be beyond me. But
it's surely good authority for remaining here with my aunt, who needs me more than you do."

"How is it, then, Mr. Graham, that you can leave your aunt for months of travel?" Grace asked.

"Why, Grace," spoke up Mrs. Mayburn, quickly, "you cannot expect Alford to transform himself
into an old lady's life-long attendant. He will enjoy his travel and come back to me."

The young girl made no answer, but thought: "Their defensive alliance is a strong one."

"Besides," continued the old lady, after a moment, "I think it's very kind of him to remain
with me, instead of going to the beach for his own pleasure and the marring of yours."

"Now, that's putting it much too strong," cried Hilland. "Graham never marred our pleasure."

"And I hope he never will," was the low, earnest response. To Grace's ear it sounded more like
a vow or the expression of a controlling purpose than like a mere friendly remark.

The next day the St. John cottage was alive with the bustle of preparation for departure. Graham
made no officious offers of assistance, which, of course, would be futile, but quietly devoted
himself to the major. Whenever Grace appeared from the upper regions, she found her father
amused or interested, and she smiled her gratitude. In the evening she found a chance to say
in a low aside: "Mr. Graham, you are keeping your word to be my friend. If the sea- breezes
prove as beneficial to papa as your society to-day, I shall be glad indeed. You don't know
how much you have aided me by entertaining him so kindly."

Both her tone and glance were very gentle as she spoke these words, and for a moment his silence
and manner perplexed her. Then he replied lightly: "You are mistaken, Miss Grace. Your father
has been entertaining me."

They were interrupted at this point, and Graham seemed to grow more remote than ever.

Hilland was parting from his friend with evident and sincere regret. He had made himself very
useful in packing, strapping trunks, and in a general eagerness to save his betrothed from
all fatigue; but whenever occasion offered he would sally forth upon Graham, who, with the
major, followed the shade on the piazza. Some jocular speech usually accompanied his appearance,
and he always received the same in kind with such liberal interest that he remarked to Grace
more than once, "You are the only being in the world for whom I'd leave Graham during his brief
stay in this land."

"Oh, return to him by all means," she had said archly upon one occasion." We did very well
alone last year before we were aware of your existence."

"YOU may not care," was his merry response, "but it is written in one of the oldest books of
the world, 'It is not good for MAN to be alone.' Oh, Grace, what an infinite difference there
is between love for a woman like you and the strongest friendship between man and man! Graham
just suits me as a friend. After a separation of years I find him just the same even-pulsed,
half-cynical, yet genial good fellow he always was. It's hard to get within his shell; but
when you do, you find the kernel sweet and sound to the core, even if it is rather dry. From
the time we struck hands as boys there has never been an unpleasant jar in our relations. We
supplement each other marvellously; but how infinitely more and beyond all this is your love!
How it absorbs and swallows up every other consideration, so that one hour with you is more
to me than an age with all the men of wit and wisdom that ever lived! No; I'm not a false friend
when I say that I am more than content to go and remain with you; and if Graham had a hundredth
part as much heart as brains he would understand me. Indeed, his very intellect serves in the
place of a heart after a fashion; for he took Emerson on trust so intelligently as to comprehend
that I should not be inconsolable."

"Mr. Graham puzzles me," Grace had remarked, as she absently inspected the buttons on one of
her father's vests. "I never met just such a man before."

"And probably never will again. He has been isolated and peculiar from childhood. I know him
well, and he has changed but little in essentials since I left him over two years ago."

"I wish I had your complacent belief about him," was her mental conclusion. "I sometimes think
you are right, and again I feel as if some one in almost mortal pain is near me, and that I
am to blame in part."

Whist was dispensed with the last night they were together, for the evening was close, and
all were weary. Grace thought Graham looked positively haggard; but, whether by design or chance,
he kept in the shadows of the piazza most of the time. Still she had to admit that he was the
life of the party. Mrs. Mayburn was apparently so overcome by the heat as to be comparatively
silent; and Hilland openly admitted that the July day and his exertions had used him up. Therefore
the last gathering at the St. Johns' cottage came to a speedy end; and Graham not only said
good-night, but also good-by; for, as he explained, business called him to town early the following
morning. He parted fraternally with Hilland, giving a promise to spend a day with him before
he sailed for Europe. Then he broke away, giving Grace as a farewell only a strong, warm pressure
of the hand, and hastened after his aunt, who had walked on slowly before. The major, after
many friendly expressions, had retired quite early in the evening.

Grace saw the dark outline of Graham's form disappear like a shadow, and every day thereafter
he grew more shadowy to her. To a degree she did not imagine possible he had baffled her scrutiny
and left her in doubt. Either he had quietly and philosophically accepted the situation, or
he wished her to think so. In either case there was nothing to be done. Once away with father
and lover she had HER world with her; and life grew richer and more full of content every day.

Lassitude and almost desperate weariness were in Graham's step as he came up the path the following
evening, for there was no further reason to keep up the part he was acting. When he greeted
his aunt he tried to appear cheerful, but she said gently, "Put on no mask before me, Alford.
Make no further effort. You have baffled even Grace, and thoroughly satisfied your friend that
all is well. Let the strain cease now; and let my home be a refuge while you remain. Your wound
is one that time only can heal. You have made an heroic struggle not to mar their happiness,
and I am proud of you for it. But don't try to deceive me or put the spur any longer to your
jaded spirit. Reaction into new hopes and a new life will come all the sooner if you give way
for the present to your mood."

The wise old woman would have been right in dealing with most natures. But Graham would not
give way to his bitter disappointment, and for him there would come no reaction. He quietly
read to her the evening papers, and after she had retired stole out and gazed for hours on
the St. John cottage, the casket that had contained for him the jewel of the world. Then, compressing
his lips, he returned to his room with the final decision, "I will be her friend for life;
but it must be an absent friend. I think my will is strong; but half the width of the world
must be between us."

For the next two weeks he sought to prepare his aunt for a long separation. He did not hide
his feeling; indeed, he spoke of it with a calmness which, while it surprised, also convinced
her that it would dominate his life. She was made to see clearly the necessity of his departure,
if he would keep his promise to live and do his best. He promised to be a faithful and voluminous
correspondent, and she knew she would live upon his letters. After the lapse of three weeks
he had arranged his affairs so as to permit a long absence, and then parted with his aunt as
if he had been her son.

"Alford," she said, "all that I have is yours, as you will find in my will."

"Dear aunty," was his reply, "in giving me your love you have given me all that I crave. I
have more than enough for my wants. Forgive me that I cannot stay; but I cannot. I have learned
the limit of my power of endurance. I know that I cannot escape myself or my memories, but
new scenes divert my thoughts. Here, I believe, I should go mad, or else do something wild
and desperate. Forgive me, and do not judge me harshly because I leave you. Perhaps some day
this fever of unrest will pass away, When it does, rest assured you shall see me again."

He then went to the seaside resort where Hilland with the major and his daughter was sojourning,
and never had they seen a man who appeared so far removed from the lackadaisical, disconsolate
lover. His dress was elegant, although very quiet, his step firm and prompt, and his manner
that of a man who is thoroughly master of the situation. The major was ill from an indiscretion
at the table during the preceding day, and Grace could not leave him very long. He sent to
his favorite companion and antagonist at whist many feeling messages and sincere good wishes,
and they lost nothing in hearty warmth as they came from Grace's lips; and for some reason,
which she could scarcely explain to herself, tears came into her eyes as she gave him her hand
in parting.

He had been laughing and jesting vivaciously a moment before; but as he looked into her face,
so full of kindly feeling which she could not wholly repress, his own seemed to grow rigid,
and the hand she held was so cold and tense as to remind her of a steel gauntlet. In the supreme
effort of his spiritual nature he belied his creed. His physical being was powerless in the
grasp of the dominant soul. No martyr at the stake ever suffered more than he at that moment,
but he merely said with quiet emphasis, "Good-by, Grace St. John. I shall not forget my promise,
nor can there come a day on which I shall not wish you all the happiness you deserve."

He then bowed gravely and turned away. She hastily sought her room, and then burst into an
irrepressible passion of tears. "It's all in vain," she sobbed. "I felt it. I know it. He suffers
as I should suffer, and his iron will cannot disguise the truth."

The friends strolled away up the beach for their final talk, and at length Hilland came back
in a somewhat pensive but very complacent mood. Grace looked at him anxiously, but his first
sentences reassured her.

"Well," he exclaimed, "if Graham is odd, he's certainly the best and most sensible fellow that
ever lived, and the most steadfast of friends. Here we've been separated for years, and yet,
for any change in his attitude toward me, we might have parted overnight at the university.
He was as badly smitten by the girl I love as a man of his temperament could be; but on learning
the facts he recognizes the situation with a quiet good taste which leaves nothing to be desired.
He made it perfectly clear to me that travel for the present was only a broader and more effective
way of continuing his career as a student, and that when tired of wandering he can go back
to books with a larger knowledge of how to use them. One thing he has made clearer still--if
we do not see each other for ten years, he will come back the same stanch friend."

"I think you are right, Warren. He certainly has won my entire respect."

"I'm glad he didn't win anything more, sweetheart."

"That ceased to be possible long before he came, but I--I wish he had known it," was her hesitating
response, as she pushed Hilland's hair back from his heated brow.

"Nonsense, you romantic little woman! You imagine he has gone away with a great gaping wound
in his heart. Graham is the last man in the world for that kind of thing, and no one would
smile more broadly than he, did he know of your gentle solicitude."

Grace was silent a moment, and then stole away to her father's side.

The next tidings they had of Graham was a letter dated among the fiords and mountains of Norway.

At times no snowy peak in that wintry land seemed more shadowy or remote to Grace than he.
Again, while passing to and fro between their own and Mrs. Mayburn's cottage in the autumn,
she would see him, with almost the vividness of life, deathly pale as when he leaned against
the apple-tree at their well-remembered interview.

CHAPTER XVI

THE CLOUD IN THE SOUTH

The summer heat passed speedily, and the major returned to his cottage invigorated and very
complacent over his daughter's prospects. Hilland had proved himself as manly and devoted a
lover as he had been an ardent and eventually patient suitor. The bubbling, overflowing stream
of happiness in Grace's heart deepened into a wide current, bearing her on from day to day
toward a future that promised to satisfy every longing of her woman's heart. There was, of
course, natural regret that Hilland was constrained to spend several months in the West in
order to settle up his large interests with a due regard to the rights of others, and yet she
would not have it otherwise. She was happy in his almost unbounded devotion; she would have
been less happy had this devotion kept him at her side when his man's part in the world required
his presence elsewhere. Therefore she bade him farewell with a heart that was not so very heavy,
even though tears gemmed her eyes.

The autumn and early winter months lapsed quietly and uneventfully, and the inmates of the
two cottages ever remembered that period of their lives as the era of letters--Graham's from
over the sea abounding in vivid descriptions of scenes that to Mrs. Mayburn's interested eyes
were like glimpses of another world, and Hilland's, even more voluminous and infinitely more
interesting to one fair reader, to whom they were sacred except as she doled out occasional
paragraphs which related sufficiently to the general order of things to be read aloud.

Graham's letters, however, had a deep interest to Grace, who sought to trace in them the working
of his mind in regard to herself. She found it difficult, for his letters were exceedingly
impersonal, while the men and things he saw often stood out upon his page with vivid realism.
It seemed to her that he grew more shadowy, and that he was wandering rather than travelling,
drifting whithersoever his fancy or circumstances pointed the way. It was certain he avoided
the beaten paths, and freely indulged his taste for regions remote and comparatively unknown.
His excuse was that life was far more picturesque and unhackneyed, with a chance for an occasional
adventure, in lands where one was not jostled by people with guide- books--that he saw men
and women as the influences of the ages had been fashioning them, and not conventionalized
by the mode of the hour. "Chief of all," he concluded, jestingly, "I can send to my dear aunt
descriptions of people and scenery that she will not find better set forth in half a dozen
books within her reach."

After a month in Norway, he crossed the mountains into Sweden, and as winter approached drifted
rapidly to the south and east. One of his letters was dated at the entrance of the Himalayas
in India, and expressed his purpose to explore one of the grandest mountain systems in the world.

Mrs. Mayburn gloated over the letters, and Grace laughingly told her she had learned more about
geography since her nephew had gone abroad than in all her life before. The major, also, was
deeply interested in them, especially as Graham took pains in his behalf to give some account
of the military organizations with which he came in contact. They had little of the nature
of a scientific report. The soldier, his life and weapons, were sketched with a free hand merely,
and so became even to the ladies a picturesque figure rather than a military abstraction. From
time to time a letter appeared in Mrs. Mayburn's favorite journal signed by the initials of
the traveller; and these epistles she cut out and pasted most carefully in a book which Grace
jestingly called her "family Bible."

But as time passed, Graham occupied less and less space in the thoughts of all except his aunt.
The major's newspaper became more absorbing than ever, for the clouds gathering in the political
skies threatened evils that seemed to him without remedy. Strongly Southern and conservative
in feeling, he was deeply incensed at what he termed "Northern fanaticism." Only less hateful
to him was a class in the South known in the parlance of the times as "fire-eaters."

All through the winter and spring of 1860 he had his "daily growl," as Grace termed it; and
she assured him it was growing steadily deeper and louder. Yet it was evidently a source of
so much comfort to him that she always smiled in secret over his invective--noting, also, that
while he deplored much that was said and done by the leaders of the day, the prelude of the
great drama interested him so deeply that he half forgot his infirmities. In fact, she had
more trouble with Hilland, who had returned, and was urging an early date for their marriage.
Her lover was an ardent Republican, and hated slavery with New England enthusiasm. The arrogance
and blindness of the South had their counterpart at the North, and Hilland had not escaped
the infection. He was much inclined to belittle the resources of the former section, to scoff
at its threats, and to demand that the North should peremptorily and imperiously check all
further aggressions of slavery. At first it required not a little tact on the part of Grace
to preserve political harmony between father and lover; but the latter speedily recognized
that the major's age and infirmities, together with his early associations, gave him almost
unlimited privilege to think and say what he pleased. Hilland soon came to hear with good-
natured nonchalance his Northern allies berated, and considered himself well repaid by one
mirthful, grateful glance from Grace.

After all, what was any political squabble compared with the fact that Grace had promised to
marry him in June? The settlement of the difference between the North and South was only a
question of time, and that, too, in his belief, not far remote.

"Why should I worry about it?" he said to Grace. "When the North gets angry enough to put its
foot down, all this bluster about State- rights, and these efforts to foist slavery on a people
who are disgusted with it, will cease."

"Take care," she replied, archly. "I'm a Southern girl. Think what might happen if I put my
foot down."

"Oh, when it comes to you," was his quick response, "I'm the Democratic party. I will get down
on my knees at any time; I'll yield anything and stand everything."

"I hope you will be in just such a frame of mind ten years hence."

It was well that the future was hidden from her.

Hilland wrote to his friend, asking, indeed almost insisting, that he should return in time
for the wedding. Graham did not come, and intimated that he was gathering materials which might
result in a book. He sent a letter, however, addressed to them both, and full of a spirit of
such loyal good-will that Hilland said it was like a brother's grip. "Well, well," he concluded,
"if Graham has the book- making fever upon him, we shall have to give him up indefinitely."

Grace was at first inclined to take the same view, feeling that, even if he had been sorely
wounded, his present life and the prospects it gave of authorship had gained so great a fascination
that he would come back eventually with only a memory of what he had suffered. Her misgivings,
however, returned when, on seeing the letter, Mrs. Mayburn's eyes became suddenly dimmed with
tears. She turned away abruptly and seemed vexed with herself for having shown the emotion,
but only said quietly, "I once thought Alford had no heart; but that letter was not written
'out of his head,' as we used to say when children."

She gave Grace no reason to complain of any lack of affectionate interest in her preparations;
and when the wedding day came she assured the blushing girl that "no one had ever looked upon
a lovelier bride."

Ever mindful of her father, Grace would take no wedding journey, although her old friend offered
to come and care for him. She knew well how essential her voice and hand were to his comfort;
and she would not permit him to entertain, even for a moment, the thought that in any sense
he had lost her. So they merely returned to his favorite haunt by the sea, and Hilland was
loyal to the only condition in their engagement--that she should be permitted to keep her promise
to her dying mother, and never leave her father to the care of others, unless under circumstances
entirely beyond her control.

Later in the season Mrs. Mayburn joined them at the beach, for she found her life at the cottage
too lonely to be endured.

It was a summer of unalloyed happiness to Hilland and his wife, and the major promised to renew
his youth in the warm sunlight of his prosperity. The exciting presidential canvass afforded
abundant theme for the daily discussions in his favorite corner of the piazza, where, surrounded
by some veteran cronies whom he had known in former years, he joined them in predictions and
ominous head-shakings over the monstrous evils that would follow the election of Mr. Lincoln.
Hilland, sitting in the background with Grace, would listen and stroke his tawny beard as he
glanced humorously at his wife, who knew that he was working, quietly out of deference to his
father-in-law, but most effectively, in the Republican campaign. Although Southern born she
had the sense to grant to men full liberty of personal opinion--a quality that it would be
well for many of her sisterhood to imitate. Indeed, she would have despised a man who had not
sufficient force to think for himself; and she loved her husband all the more because in some
of his views he differed radically with her father and herself.

Meantime the cloud gathering in the South grew darker and more portentous; and after the election
of President Lincoln the lightning of hate and passion began to strike from it directly at
the nation's life. The old major was both wrong and right in regard to the most prominent leaders
of the day. Many whom he deemed the worst fanatics in the land were merely exponents of a public
opinion that was rising like an irresistible tide from causes beyond human control--from the
God-created conscience illumined by His own truth. In regard to the instigators of the Rebellion,
he was right. Instead of representing their people, they deceived and misled them; and, with
an astute understanding of the chivalrous, hasty Southern temper, they so wrought upon their
pride of section by the false presentation of fancied and prospective wrongs, that loyalty
to the old flag, which at heart they loved, was swept away by the madness which precedes destruction.
Above all and directing all was the God of nations; and He had decreed that slavery, the gangrene
in the body politic, must be cut out, even though it should be with the sword. The surgery
was heroic, indeed; but as its result the slave, and especially the master and his posterity,
will grow into a large, healthful, and prosperous life; and the evidences of such life are
increasing daily.

At the time of which I am writing, however, the future was not dreamed of by the sagacious
Lincoln even, or his cabinet, much less was it foreseen by the humbler characters of my story.
Hilland after reading his daily journal would sit silent for a long time with contracted brow.
The white heat of anger was slowly kindling in his heart and in that of the loyal North; and
the cloud in the South began to throw its shadow over the hearth of the happy wife.

Although Hilland hated slavery it incensed him beyond measure that the South could be made
to believe that the North would break through or infringe upon the constitutional safeguards
thrown around the institution. At the same time he knew, and it seemed to him every intelligent
man should understand, that if a sufficient majority should decide to forbid the extension
of the slave system to new territory, that should end the question, or else the Constitution
was not worth the paper on which it was written. "Law and order," was his motto; and "All changes
and reforms under the sanction of law, and at the command of the majority," his political creed.

The major held the Southern view. "Slaves are property," he said; "and the government is bound
to permit a man to take his property where he pleases, and protect him in all his rights."
The point where the veteran drew the line was in disloyalty to the flag which he had sworn
to defend, and for which he had become a cripple for life. As the Secession spirit became more
rampant and open in South Carolina, the weight of his invective fell more heavily upon the
leaders there than upon the hitherto more detested abolitionists.

When he read the address of Alexander H. Stephens, delivered to the same people on the following
evening, wherein that remarkable man said, "My object is not to stir up strife, but to allay
it; not to appeal to your passions, but to your reason. Shall the people of the South secede
from the Union in consequence of the election of Mr. Lincoln? My countrymen, I tell you frankly,
candidly, and earnestly, that I do not think they ought. In my judgment the election of no
man, constitutionally chosen, is sufficient cause for any State to separate from the Union.
It ought to stand by and aid still in maintaining the Constitution of the country. We are pledged
to maintain the Constitution. Many of us are sworn to support it"--when the veteran came to
these words, he sprang to his feet without a thought of his crutch, and cried in a tone with
which he would order a charge, "There is the man who ought to be President. Read that speech."

Hilland did read it aloud, and then said thoughtfully, "Yes; if the leaders on both sides were
of the stamp of Mr. Stephens and would stand firm all questions at issue could be settled amicably
under the Constitution. But I fear the passion of the South, fired by the unscrupulous misrepresentations
of a few ambitious men, will carry the Cotton States into such violent disloyalty that the
North in its indignation will give them a lesson never to be forgotten."

"Well!" shouted the major, "if they ever fire on the old flag, I'll shoulder my crutch and
march against them myself--I would, by heaven! though my own brother fired the gun." Grace's
merry laugh rang out-- for she never lost a chance to throw oil on the troubled waters--and
she cried, "Warren, if this thing goes on, you and papa will stand shoulder to shoulder."

But the time for that had not yet come. Indeed, there would ever remain wide differences of
opinion between the two men. The major believed that if Congress conceded promptly all that
the slave power demanded, "the demagogues of the South would soon be without occupation;" while
Hilland asserted that the whole thing originated in bluster to frighten the North into submission,
and that the danger was that the unceasing inflammatory talk might so kindle the masses that
they would believe the lies, daily iterated, and pass beyond the control of their leaders.

When at last South Carolina seceded, and it became evident that other States would follow,
the major often said with bitter emphasis that the North would have to pay dearly for its sentiment
in regard to the negro. In Hilland's case strong exultation became a growing element in his
anger, for he believed that slavery was destined to receive heavier blows from the mad zeal
of its friends than Northern abolitionists could have inflicted in a century.

"If the South casts aside constitutional protection," he reasoned, "she must take the consequences.
After a certain point is passed, the North will make sharp, quick work with anything that interferes
with her peace and prosperity."

"The work will be sharp enough, young man," replied the major testily; "but don't be sure about
its being quick. If the South once gets to fighting, I know her people well enough to assure
you that the Republican party can reach its ends only through seas of blood, if they are ever
attained."

Hilland made no reply--he never contradicted the old gentleman--but he wrote Graham a rather
strong letter intimating that it was time for Americans to come home.

Graham would not have come, however, had not Grace, who had just returned from Mrs. Mayburn's
cottage, caused a postscript to be added, giving the information that his aunt was seriously
ill, and that her physician thought it might be a long time before she recovered, even if life
was spared.

This decided him at once; and as he thought he might never see his kind old friend again, he
bitterly regretted that he had remained away so long. And yet he felt he could scarcely have
done otherwise; for in bitter disappointment he found that his passion, so far from being conquered,
had, by some uncontrollable law of his nature, simply grown with time and become interwoven
with every fibre of his nature. Hitherto he had acted on the principle that he must and would
conquer it; but now that duty called him to the presence of the one whose love and kindness
formed an indisputable claim upon him, he began to reason that further absence was futile,
that he might as well go back, and-- as he promised his aunt--"do the best he could."

It must be admitted that Hilland's broad hint, that in the coming emergency Americans should
be at home, had little weight with him. From natural bent he had ever been averse to politics.
In accordance with his theory of evolution, he believed the negro was better off in his present
condition than he could be in any other. He was the last man to cherish an enthusiasm for an
inferior race. Indeed, he would have much preferred it should die out altogether and make room
for better material. The truth was that his prolonged residence abroad had made the questions
of American politics exceedingly vague and inconsequential. He believed them to be ephemeral
to the last degree-- in the main, mere struggles of parties and partisans for power and spoils;
and for their hopes, schemes, and stratagems to gain temporary success, he cared nothing.

He had not been an idler in his prolonged absence. In the first place, he had striven with
the whole force of a powerful will to subdue a useless passion, and had striven in vain. He
had not, however, yielded for a day to a dreamy melancholy, but, in accordance with his promise
"to do his best," had been tireless in mental and physical activity. The tendency to wander
somewhat aimlessly had ceased, and he had adopted the plan of studying modern life at the old
centres of civilization and power.

Hilland's letter found him in Egypt, and only a few weeks had elapsed after its reception when,
with deep anxiety, he rang the bell at his aunt's cottage door. He had not stopped to ask for
letters in London, for he had learned that by pushing right on he could catch a fast outgoing
steamer and save some days.

The servant who admitted him uttered a cry of joy; and a moment later his aunt rose feebly
from the lounge in her sitting-room, and greeted him as her son.

CHAPTER XVII

PREPARATION

Graham learned with deep satisfaction that the dangerous symptoms of his aunt's illness had
passed away, and that she was now well advanced in convalescence. They gave to each other an
hour or two of unreserved confidence; and the old lady's eyes filled with tears more than once
as she saw how vain had been her nephew's struggle. It was equally clear, however, that he
had gained strength and a nobler manhood in the effort; and so she told him.

"If supper is ready," he replied, "I'll prove to you that I am in very fair condition."

An hour later he left her, cheerful and comparatively happy, for the St. Johns' cottage. From
the piazza he saw through the lighted windows a home-scene that he had once dreamed might bless
his life. Hilland, evidently, was reading the evening paper aloud, and his back was toward
his friend. The major was nervously drumming on the table with his fingers, and contracting
his frosty eyebrows, as if perturbed by the news. But it was on the young wife that Graham's
eyes dwelt longest. She sat with some sewing on the further side of the open fire, and her
face was toward him. Had she changed? Yes; but for the better. The slight matronly air and
fuller form that had come with wifehood became her better than even her girlish grace. As she
glanced up to her husband from time to time, Graham saw serene loving trust and content.

"It is all well with them," he thought; "and so may it ever be."

A servant who was passing out opened the door, and thus he was admitted without being announced,
for he cautioned the maid to say nothing. Then pushing open the parlor door, which was ajar,
he entered, and said quietly: "I've come over for a game of whist."

But the quietness of his greeting was not reciprocated. All rose hastily, even to the major,
and stared at him. Then Hilland half crushed the proffered hand, and the major grasped the
other, and there came a fire of exclamations and questions that for a moment or two left no
space for answer.

Grace cried: "Come, Warren, give Mr. Graham a chance to get his breath and shake hands with
me. I propose to count for something in this welcome."

"Give him a kiss, sweetheart," said her delighted husband.

Grace hesitated, and a slight flush suffused her face. Graham quickly bent over her hand, which
he now held, and kissed it, saying: "I've been among the Orientals so long that I've learned
some of their customs of paying homage. I know that you are queen here as of old, and that
Hilland is by this time the meekest of men."

"Indeed, was I so imperious in old times?" she asked, as he threw himself, quite at home, into
one of the easy-chairs.

"You are of those who are born to rule. You have a way of your own, however, which some other
rulers might imitate to advantage."

"Well, my first command is that you give an account of yourself. So extensive a traveller never
sat down at our quiet fireside before. Open your budget of wonders. Only remember we have some
slight acquaintance with Baron Munchausen."

"The real wonders of the world are more wonderful than his inventions. Beyond that I hastened
home by the shortest possible route after receiving Hilland's letter, I have little to say."

"I thought my letter would stir you up."

"In sincerity, I must say it did not. The postscript did, however."

"Then, in a certain sense, it was I who brought you home, Mr. Graham," said Grace. "I had just
returned from a call on Mrs. Mayburn, and I made Warren open the letter and add the postscript.
I assure you we were exceedingly anxious about her for weeks."

"And from what she has told me I am almost convinced that she owes her life more to you than
to her physician. Drugs go but a little way, especially at her time of life; but the delicacies
and nourishing food you saw she was provided with so regularly rallied her strength. Yes; it
was your postscript that led to my immediate return, and not Hilland's political blast."

"Why, Graham! Don't you realize what's going on here?"

"Not very seriously."

"You may have to fight, old fellow."

"I've no objections after I have decided which side to take."

"Good heavens, Graham! you will be mobbed if you talk that way here in New England. This comes
of a man's living abroad so much that he loses all love for his native land."

"Squabbling politicians are not one's native land. I am not a hater of slavery as you are;
and if it produces types of men and women like that Southern lady of whom I told you, it must
be an excellent institution."

"Oh, yes," cried Hilland laughing. "By the way, Grace, my cool, cynical friend was once madly
in love--at first sight, too--and with a lady old enough to be his mother. I never heard a
woman's character sketched more tenderly; and his climax was that your mother must have closely
resembled her."

"Mr. Graham is right," said the major impressively. "The South produces the finest women in
the world; and when the North comes to meet its men, as I fear it must, it will find they are
their mothers' sons."

"Poor Warren!" cried Grace; "here are all three of us against you--all pro-slavery and Southern
in our sympathies."

 "I admit at once that the South has produced THE finest woman in the
world," said Hilland, taking his wife's hand. "But I must add that
many of her present productions are not at all to my taste; nor will
they be to yours, Graham, after you have been here long enough to
understand what is going on--that is, if anything at home can enlist
your interest."

"I assure you I am deeply interested. It's exhilarating to breathe American air now, especially
so after just coming from regions where everything has been dead for centuries; for the people
living there now are scarcely alive. Of course I obtained from the papers in Egypt very vague
ideas of what was going on; and after receiving your letter my mind was too preoccupied with
my aunt's illness to dwell on much besides. If the flag which gave me protection abroad, and
under which I was born, is assailed, I shall certainly fight for it, even though I may not
be in sympathy with the causes which led to the quarrel. What I said about being undecided
as to which side I would take was a half- jocular way of admitting that I need a great deal
of information; and between you and the major I am in a fair way to hear both sides. I cannot
believe, however, that a civil war will break out in this land of all others. The very idea
seems preposterous, and I am not beyond the belief that the whole thing is political excitement.
I have learned this much, that the old teachings of Calhoun have borne their legitimate fruit,
and that the Cotton States by some hocus-pocus legislation declare themselves out of the Union.
But then the rational, and to my mind inevitable, course will be, that the representative men
of both sides will realize at last to what straits their partisanship is bringing them, and
so come together and adjust their real or fancied grievances. Meanwhile, the excitement will
die out; and a good many will have a dim consciousness that they have made fools of themselves,
and go quietly about their own business the rest of their days."

"Graham, you don't know anything about the true state of affairs," said Hilland; and before
the evening was over he proved his words true to his friend, who listened attentively to the
history of his native land for the past few months. In conclusion, Hilland said, "At one time--not
very long ago, either--I held your opinion that it was the old game of bluster and threatening
on the part of Southern politicians. But they are going too far; they have already gone too
far. In seizing the United States forts and other property, they have practically waged war
against the government. My opinions have changed from week to week under the stern logic of
events, and I now believe that the leading spirits in the South mean actual and final separation.
I've no doubt that they hope to effect their purpose peaceably, and that the whole thing will
soon be a matter of diplomacy between two distinct governments. But they are preparing for
war, and they will have it, too, to their hearts' content. President Buchanan is a muff. He
sits and wrings his hands like an old woman, and declares he can do nothing. But the new administration
will soon be in power, and it will voice the demand of the North that this nonsense be stopped;
and if no heed is given, it will stop it briefly, decisively."

"My son Warren," said the major, "you told your friend some time since that he knew nothing
about this affair. You must permit me to say the same to you. I feat that both sides have gone
too far, much too far; and what the end will be, and when it will come, God only knows."

Before many weeks passed Graham shared the same view.

Events crowded upon each other; pages of history were made daily, and often hourly. In every
home, as well as in the cottages wherein dwelt the people of my story, the daily journals were
snatched and read at the earliest possible moment. Many were stern and exultant like Hilland;
more were dazed and perplexed, feeling that something ought to be done to stem the torrent,
and at the same time were astonished and troubled to find that perhaps a next-door neighbor
sympathized with the rebellion and predicted its entire success. The social atmosphere was
thick with doubt, heavy with despondency, and often lurid with anger.

Graham became a curious study to both Grace and his aunt; and sometimes his friend and the
major were inclined to get out of patience with him. He grew reticent on the subject concerning
which all were talking, but he read with avidity, not only the history of the day, but of the
past as it related to the questions at issue.

One of his earliest acts had been the purchase of a horse noted in town as being so powerful,
spirited, and even vicious, that few dared to drive or ride him. He had finally brought his
ill-repute to a climax by running away, wrecking the carriage, and breaking his owner's ribs.
He had since stood fuming in idleness; and when Graham wished him brought to the unused stable
behind his aunt's cottage, no one would risk the danger. Then the young man went after the
horse himself.

"I've only one man in my employ who dares clean and take care of him," remarked the proprietor
of the livery stable where he was kept; "and he declares that he won't risk his life much longer
unless the brute is used and tamed down somewhat. There's your property and I'd like to have
it removed as soon as possible."

"I'll remove it at once," said Graham, quietly; and paying no heed to the crowd that began
to gather when it was bruited that "Firebrand"-- for such was the horse's name--was to be brought
out, he took a bridle and went into the stall, first speaking gently, then stroking the animal
with an assured touch. The horse permitted himself to be bridled and led out; but there was
an evil fire in his eye, and he gave more than one ominous snort of defiance. The proprietor,
smitten by a sudden compunction, rushed forward and cried, "Look here, sir; you are taking
your life in your hand."

"I say, Graham," cried Hilland's voice, "what scrape are you in, that you have drawn such a crowd?"

"No scrape at all," said Graham, looking around and recognizing his friend and Grace mounted
and passing homeward from their ride. "I've had the presumption to think that you would permit
me to join you occasionally, and so have bought a good horse. Isn't he a beauty?"

"What, Firebrand?"

"That's his present name. I shall re-christen him."

"Oh, come, Graham! if you don't value your neck, others do. You've been imposed upon."

"I've warned him--" began the keeper of the livery stable; but here the horse reared and tried
to break from Graham's grasp.

"Clear the way," the young man cried; and as the brute came down he seized his mane and vaulted
upon his bare back. The action was so sudden and evidently so unexpected that the horse stood
still and quivered for a moment, then gave a few prodigious bounds; but the rider kept his
seat so perfectly that he seemed a part of the horse. The beast next began to rear, and at
one time it seemed as if he would fall over backward, and his master sprang lightly to the
ground. But the horse was scarcely on all fours before Graham was on his back again. The brute
had the bit in his teeth, and paid no attention to it. Graham now drew a flexible rawhide from
his pocket, and gave his steed a severe cut across the flanks. The result was another bound
into the air, such as experts present declared was never seen before; and then the enraged
animal sped away at a tremendous pace There was a shout of applause; and Hilland and Grace
galloped after, but soon lost sight of Graham. Two hours later he trotted quietly up to their
door, his coal-black horse white with foam, quivering in every muscle, but perfectly subdued.

"I merely wished to assure you that my neck was safe, and that I have a horse fit to go to
the war that you predict so confidently," he said to Hilland, who with Grace rushed out on
the piazza.

"I say, Graham, where did you learn to ride?" asked his friend.

"Oh, the horses were nobler animals than the men in some of the lands where I have been, and
I studied them. This creature will be a faithful friend in a short time. You have no idea how
much intelligence such a horse as this has if he is treated intelligently. I don't believe
he has ever known genuine kindness. I'll guarantee that I can fire a pistol between his ears
within two weeks, and that he won't flinch. Good-by. I shall be my own hostler for a short
time, and must work an hour over him after the run he's had."

"Well," exclaimed Hilland, as he passed into the house with his wife, "I admit that Graham
has changed. He was always great on tramps, but I never knew him to care for a horse before."

Grace felt that he had changed ever since he had leaned for support against the apple-tree
by which he was now passing down the frozen walk, but she only said, "I never saw such superb
horsemanship."

She had not thought Graham exactly fine-looking in former days; but in his absence his slight
figure had filled out, and his every movement was instinct with reserved force. The experiences
through which he had passed removed him, as she was conscious, beyond the sphere of ordinary
men. Even his marked reticence about himself and his views was stimulating to the imagination.
Whether he had conquered his old regard for her she could not tell. He certainly no longer
avoided her, and he treated her with the frank courtesy he would naturally extend to his friend's
wife. But he spent far more time with his aunt than with them; and it became daily more and
more evident that he accepted the major's view, and was preparing for what he believed would
be a long and doubtful conflict. Since it must come, he welcomed the inevitable, for in his
condition of mind it was essential that he should be intensely occupied. Although his aunt
had to admit that he was a little peculiar, his manner was simple and quiet; and when he joined
his friends on their drives or at their fireside, he was usually as genial as they could desire,
and his tenderness for his aunt daily increased the respect which he had already won from Grace.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE CALL TO ARMS

On the 4th of March, 1861, was inaugurated as President the best friend the South ever had.
He would never have deceived or misled her. In all the bloody struggle that followed, although
hated, scoffed at, and maligned as the vilest monster of earth, he never by word or act manifested
a vindictive spirit toward her. Firm and sagacious, Lincoln would have protected the South
in her constitutional rights, though every man at the North had become an abolitionist. Slavery,
however, had long been doomed, like other relics of barbarism, by the spirit of the age; and
his wisdom and that of men like him, with the logic of events and the irresistible force of
the world's opinion, would have found some peaceful, gradual remedy for an evil which wrought
even more injury to the master than to the bondman. In his inaugural address he repeated that
he had "no purpose, directly or indirectly, to interfere with slavery in the States where it
existed."

These were noble words, and to all minds not confused by the turmoil, passion, and prejudices
of the hour, they presented the issue squarely. If the leaders of the South desired peaceful
negotiation, the way was opened, the opportunity offered; if they were resolved on the destruction
of the Union, Lincoln's oath meant countless men and countless treasure to defend it.

Men almost held their breath in suspense. The air became thick with rumors of compromise and
peace. Even late in March, Mr. Seward, the President's chief adviser, "believed and argued
that the revolution throughout the South had spent its force and was on the wane; and that
the evacuation of Sumter and the manifestation of kindness and confidence to the Rebel and
Border States would undermine the conspiracy, strengthen the Union sentiment and Union majorities,
and restore allegiance and healthy political action without resort to civil war."

To Graham, who, in common with millions in their homes, was studying the problem, this course
seemed so rational and so advantageous to all concerned, that he accepted it as the outline
of the future. The old major shook his head and growled, "You don't know the South; it's too
late; their blood is up."

Hilland added exultantly, "Neither do you know the North, Graham. There will come a tidal wave
soon that will carry Mr. Seward and the hesitating President to the boundaries of Mexico."

The President was not hesitating, in the weak sense of the word. Equally removed from Mr. Buchanan's
timidity and Mr. Seward's optimistic confidence, he was feeling his way, gathering the reins
into his hands, and seeking to comprehend an issue then too obscure and vast for mortal mind
to grasp. What is plain to-day was not plain then.

It speedily became evident, however, that all talk of compromise on the part of the Southern
leaders was deceptive--that they were relentlessly pursuing the course marked out from the
first, hoping, undoubtedly, that the government would be paralyzed by their allies at the North,
and that their purposes would be effected by negotiation and foreign intervention.

And so the skies grew darker and the political and social atmosphere so thick with doubt and
discordant counsels that the horizon narrowed about even those on the mountain-top of power.
All breathed heavily and felt the oppression that precedes some convulsion of nature.

At length, on the morning of the 12th of April, as the darkness which foreruns the dawn was
lifting from Charleston Harbor, and Sumter lay like a shadow on the waves, a gun was fired
whose echoes repeated themselves around the world. They were heard in every home North and
South, and their meaning was unmistakable. The flash of that mortar gun and of the others that
followed was as the lightning burning its way across the vault of heaven, revealing everything
with intense vividness, and rending and consuming all noxious vapors. The clouds rolled speedily
away, and from the North came the sound of "a rushing, mighty wind."

The crisis and the leader came together. The news reached Washington on Saturday. On Sunday
Mr. Lincoln drafted his memorable call to arms, and on Monday it was telegraphed throughout
the land. The response to that call forms one of the sublimest chapters of history.

In the St. John cottage, as in nearly all other homes, differences of opinion on minor questions
melted into nothingness.

Graham read the electric words aloud, and his friend's only excited comment was:

"Graham, you will go."

"Not yet," was the quiet response "and I sincerely hope you will not."

"How can a man do otherwise?"

"Because he is a man, and not an infuriated animal. I've been very chary in giving my opinion
on this subject, as you know. You also know that I have read and thought about it almost constantly
since my return. I share fully in Major St. John's views that this affair is not to be settled
by a mad rush southward of undisciplined Northern men. I have traced the history of Southern
regiments and officers in the Revolution and in our later wars, and I assure you that we are
on the eve of a gigantic conflict. In that degree that we believe the government right, we,
as rational men, should seek to render it effective service. The government does not need a
mob: it needs soldiers, and such are neither you nor I. I have informed myself somewhat on
the militia system of the country, and there are plenty of organized regiments of somewhat
disciplined men who can go at an hour's notice. If you went now, you--a millionaire--would
not count for as much as an Irishman who had spent a few months in a drill-room. The time may
come when you can equip a regiment if you choose. Moreover, you have a controlling voice in
large business interests; and this struggle is doomed from the start if not sustained financially."

"Mr. Graham is right," said Grace, emphatically. "Even my woman's reason makes so much clear
to me."

"Your woman's reason would serve most men better than their own," was his smiling reply. Then,
as he looked into her lovely face, pale at the bare thought that her husband was going into
danger, he placed his hand on Hilland's shoulder and continued, "Warren, there are other sacred
claims besides those of patriotism. The cause should grow desperate indeed before you leave
that wife."

"Mr. Graham," Grace began, with an indignant flush mantling the face that had been so pale,
"I am a soldier's daughter; and if Warren believed it to be his duty--" Then she faltered,
and burst into a passion of tears, as she moaned, "O God! it's--it's true. The bullet that
struck him would inflict a deadlier wound on me;" and she hid her face on Hilland's breast
and sobbed piteously.

"It is also true," said Graham, in tones that were as grave and solemn as they were gentle,
"that your father's spirit--nay, your own--would control you. Under its influence you might
not only permit but urge your husband's departure, though your heart broke a thousand times,
Therefore, Hilland, I appeal to your manhood. You would be unworthy of yourself and of this
true woman were you guided by passion or excitement. As a loyal man you are bound to render
your country your best service. To rush to the fray now would be the poorest aid you could give."

"Graham talks sense," said the major, speaking with the authority of a veteran. "If I had to
meet the enemy at once, I'd rather have a regiment of canaille, and cowards at that, who could
obey orders like a machine, than one of hot-headed millionaires who might not understand the
command 'Halt!' Mr. Graham is right again when he says that Grace will not prevent a man from
doing his duty any more than her mother did."

"What do you propose to do?" asked Hilland, breathing heavily. It was evident that a tremendous
struggle was going on in his breast, for it had been his daily and nightly dream to join the
grand onset that should sweep slavery and rebellion out of existence.

"Simply what I advise--watch, wait, and act when I can be of the most service."

"I yield," said Hilland, slowly, "for I suppose you are right. You all know well, and you best
of all, sweetheart"--taking his wife's face in his hands and looking down into her tearful
eyes--"that here is the treasure of my life. But you also know that in all the past there have
come times when a man must give up everything at the need of his country."

"And when that time comes," sobbed his wife, "I--I--will not--" But she could not finish the
sentence.

Graham stole away, awed, and yet with a peace in his heart that he had not known for years.
He had saved his friend from the first wild melee of the war--the war that promised rest and
nothingness to him, even while he kept his promise to "live and do his best."

CHAPTER XIX

THE BLOOD-RED SKY

Days and weeks of intense excitement followed the terrific Union reverses which at one time
threatened the loss of the national capital; and the North began to put forth the power of
which it was only half conscious, like a giant taken unawares; for to all, except men of Hilland's
hopeful confidence, it soon became evident that the opponent was a giant also. It is not my
purpose to dwell upon this, however, except as it influenced the actors of my story.

Hilland, having given up his plans, was contentedly carrying out the line of action suggested
by his friend. By all the means within his power he was furthering the Union cause, and learned
from experience how much more he could accomplish as a business man than by shouldering a musket,
or misleading a regiment in his ignorance. He made frequent trips to New York, and occasionally
went to Washington. Graham often accompanied him, and also came and went on affairs of his
own. Ostensibly he was acting as correspondent for the journal to which he had written when
abroad. In reality, he was studying the great drama with an interest that was not wholly patriotic
or scientific. He had found an antidote. The war, dreaded so unspeakably by many, was a boon
to him; and the fierce excitement of the hour a counter-irritant to the pain at heart which
he believed had become his life-long heritage.

He had feared the sorrowful reproaches of his aunt, as he gave himself almost wholly up to
its influences, and became an actor in the great struggle. In this he was agreeably mistaken,
for the spirited old lady, while averse to politics as such, had become scarcely less belligerent
than the major since the fall of Sumter. She cheerfully let him come and go at his will; and
in his loving gratitude it must be admitted that his letters to her were more frequent and
interesting than those to the journal whose badge was his passport to all parts of our lines.
He spent every hour he could with her, also; and she saw with pleasure that his activity did
him good. Grace thought he found few opportunities to pass an evening with them. She was exceedingly
grateful--first, that he had interpreted her so nobly, but chiefly because it was his influence
and reasoning that had led her husband into his present large, useful, happy action; and she
could not help showing it.

Graham's position of correspondent gave him far better opportunities for observation than he
could have had in any arm of the service. Of late he was following the command of General Patterson,
believing from his sanguinary vaporing that in his army would be seen the first real work of
the war.[Footnote: Patterson wrote to the Secretary of War: "You have the means; place them
at my disposal, and shoot me if I do not use them to advantage."] He soon became convinced,
however, that the veteran of the Mexican War, like the renowned King of France, would march
his "twenty thousand men" up the hill only to march them down again. Hearing that McDowell
proposed to move against the enemy at Manassas, he hastily repaired to Washington, hoping to
find a general that dared to come within cannon-range of the foe.

A sultry day late in the month of July was drawing to a close. Hilland and his wife, with Mrs.
Mayburn, were seated under the apple-tree, at which point the walk intersected with the main
one leading to the street. The young man, with a heavy frown, was reading from an "extra" a
lurid outline of General McDowell's overwhelming defeat and the mad panic that ensued. Grace
was listening with deep solicitude, her work lying idle in her lap. It had been a long, hard
day for her. Of late her father had been deeply excited, and now was sleeping from sheer reaction.
Mrs. Mayburn, looking as grim as fate, sat bolt upright and knitted furiously. One felt instinctively
that in no emergency of life could she give way to a panic.

"Well," cried Hilland, springing to his feet and dashing the paper to the ground with something
like an oath, "one battle has been fought in America at which I thank the immortal gods I was
not present. Why did not McDowell drive a flock of sheep against the enemy, and furnish his
division commanders with shepherds' crooks? Oh, the burning, indelible disgrace of it all!
And yet--and the possibility of it makes me feel that I would destroy myself had it happened--I
might have run like the blackest sheep of them all. I once read up a little on the subject
of panics; and there's a mysterious, awful contagion about them impossible to comprehend. These
men were Americans; they had been fighting bravely; what the devil got into them that they
had to destroy themselves and everything in an insane rush for life?"

"Oh, Warren, see the sky!" cried his wife, the deep solicitude of her expression giving place
to a look of awe.

They all turned to the west, and saw a sunset that from the excitable condition of their minds
seemed to reflect the scenes recently enacted, and to portend those in prospect now for years
to come. Lines of light and broken columns of cloud had ranged themselves across the western
arch of the sky, and almost from the horizon to the zenith they were blood-red. So deep, uniform,
and ensanguined was the crimson, that the sense of beauty was subordinated to the thought of
the national tragedy reflected in the heavens. Hilland's face grew stern as he looked, and
Grace hid hers on his breast.

After a moment, he said, lightly, "What superstitious fools we are! It's all an accidental
effect of light and cloud."

A cry from Mrs. Mayburn caused them to turn hastily, and they saw her rushing down the path
to the street entrance. Two men were helping some one from a carriage. As their obscuring forms
stood aside, Graham was seen balancing himself on crutches.

Hilland placed his wife hastily but tenderly on the seat, and was at the gateway in almost
a single bound.

"You had better let us carry you," Grace heard one of the men say in gruff kindness.

"Nonsense!" was the hearty reply. "I have not retreated thus far so masterfully only to give
my aunt the hysterics at last."

"Alford," said his aunt, sternly, "if it's wise for you to be carried, be carried. Any man
here is as liable to hysterics as I am."

"Graham, what does this mean?" cried his friend, in deep excitement. "You look as if half cut
to pieces."

"It's chiefly my clothes; I am a fitter subject for a tailor than for a surgeon. Come, good
people, there is no occasion for melodrama. With aunty's care I shall soon be as sound as ever.
Very well, carry me, then. Perhaps I ought not to use my arm yet;" for Hilland, taking in his
friend's disabled condition more fully, was about to lift him in his arms without permission
or apology. It ended in his making what is termed a "chair" with one of the men, and Graham
was borne speedily up the path.

Grace stood at the intersection with hands clasped in the deepest anxiety; but Graham smiled
reassuringly, as he said, "Isn't this an heroic style of returning from the wars? Not quite
like Walter Scott's knights; but we've fallen on prosaic times. Don't look so worried. I assure
you I'm not seriously hurt."

"Mrs. Mayburn," said Hilland, excitedly, "let us take him to our cottage. We can all take better
care of him there."

"Oh, do! please do!" echoed Grace. "You are alone; and Warren and I could do so much--"

"No," said the old lady quietly and decisively; for the moment the proposition was broached
Graham's eyes had sought hers in imperative warning. "You both can help me as far as it is
needful."

Grace detected the glance and noted the result, but Hilland began impetuously: "Oh, come, dear
Mrs. Mayburn, I insist upon it. Graham is making light of it; but I'm sure he'll need more
care than you realize--"

"Hilland, I know the friendship that prompts your wish," interrupted Graham, "but my aunt is
right. I shall do better in my own room. I need rest more than anything else. You and your
wife can do all you wish for me. Indeed, I shall visit you to-morrow and fight the battle over
again with the major. Please take me to my room at once," he added in a low tone. "I'm awfully
tired."

"Come, Mr. Hilland," said Mrs. Mayburn, in a tone almost authoritative; and she led the way
decisively.

Hilland yielded, and in a few moments Graham was in his own room, and after taking a little
stimulant, explained.

"My horse was shot and fell on me. I am more bruised, scratched and used up, than hurt;" and
so it proved, though his escape had evidently been almost miraculous. One leg and foot had
been badly crushed. There were two flesh wounds in his arm; and several bullets had cut his
clothing, in some places drawing blood. All over his clothes, from head to foot, were traces
of Virginia soil; and he had the general appearance of a man who had passed through a desperate
melee.

"I tried to repair damages in Washington," he said, "but the confusion was so dire I had to
choose between a hospital and home; and as I had some symptoms of fever last night, I determined
to push on till under the wing of my good old aunty and your fraternal care. Indeed, I think
I was half delirious when I took the train last evening; but it was only from fatigue, lack
of sleep, and perhaps loss of blood. Now, please leave me to aunty's care to-night, and I will
tell you all about it to-morrow."

Hilland was accordingly constrained to yield to his friend's wishes. He brought the best surgeon
in town, however, and gave directions that, after he had dressed Graham's wounds, he should
spend the night in Mrs. Mayburn's parlor, and report to him if there was any change for the
worse. Fortunately, there was no occasion for his solicitude. Graham slept with scarcely a
break till late the next morning; and his pulse became so quiet that when he waked with a good
appetite the physician pronounced all danger passed.

In the evening he was bent on visiting the major. He knew they were all eager for his story,
and, calculating upon the veteran's influence in restraining Hilland from hasty action, he
resolved that his old and invalid friend should hear it with the first. From the character
of Hilland he knew the danger to be apprehended was that he would throw himself into the struggle
in some way that would paralyze, or at the least curtail, his efficiency. Both his aunt and
the physician, who underrated the recuperative power of Graham's fine physical condition, urged
quiet until the following day; but he assured them he would suffer more from restlessness than
from a moderate degree of effort. He also explained to his aunt that he wished to talk with
Hilland, and, if possible, in the presence of his wife and the major.

"Then they must come here," said the old lady, resolutely.

With this compromise he had to be content; and Hilland, who had been coming and going, readily
agreed to fetch the major.

CHAPTER XX

TWO BATTLES

In less than an hour Graham was in the parlor, looking, it is true, somewhat battered, but
cheerful and resolute. His friends found him installed in a great armchair, with his bruised
foot on a cushion, his arm in a sling, and a few pieces of court-plaster distributed rather
promiscuously over his face and head. He greeted Hilland and his wife so heartily, and assured
the major so genially that he should now divide with him his honors as a veteran, that they
were reassured, and the rather tragic mood in which they had started on the visit was dispelled.

"I must admit, though," he added to his old friend, who was also made comfortable in his chair,
which Hilland had brought over, "that in my fall on the field of glory I made a sorry figure.
I was held down by my horse and trampled on as if I had been a part of the 'sacred soil.'"

"'Field of glory,' indeed!" exclaimed Hilland, contemptuously.

 "I did not know that you had become a soldier," said Grace, with
surprise.

"I was about as much of a soldier as the majority, from the generals down," was the laughing reply.

"I don't see how you could have been a worse one, if you had tried," was his friend's rejoinder.
"I may do no better; but I should be less than a man if I did not make an effort to wipe out
the disgrace as soon as possible. No reflection on you, Graham. Your wounds exonerate you;
and I know you did not get them in running away."

"Yes, I did--two of them, at least--these in my arm. As to 'wiping out this disgrace as soon
as possible,' I think that is a very secondary matter."

"Well! I don't understand it at all," was Hilland's almost savage answer. "But I can tell you
from the start you need not enter on your old prudent counsels that I should serve the government
as a stay-at- home quartermaster and general supply agent. In my opinion, what the government
needs is men--men who at least won't run away. I now have Grace's permission to go--dear, brave
girl!--and go I shall. To stay at home because I am rich seems to me the very snobbishness
of wealth; and the kind of work I have been doing graybeards can do just as well, and better."

Graham turned a grave look of inquiry upon the wife. She answered it by saying with a pallid
face: "I had better perish a thousand times than destroy Warren's self-respect."

"What right have you to preach caution," continued Hilland, "when you went far enough to be
struck by half a dozen bullets?"

"The right of a retreat which scarcely slackened until I was under my aunt's roof."

"Come, Graham, you are tantalizing us," said Hilland, impatiently. "There, forgive me, old
fellow. I fear you are still a little out of your head," he added, with a slight return of
his old good-humor. "Do give us, then, if you can, some account of your impetuous advance on
Washington, instead of Richmond."

"Yes, Mr. Graham," added the major, "if you are able to give me some reason for not blushing
that I am a Northern man, I shall be glad to hear it."

"Mrs. Hilland," said Graham, with a smiling glance at the young wife's troubled face, "you
have the advantage of us all. You can proudly say, 'I'm a Southerner.' Hilland and I are nothing
but 'low-down Yankees.' Come, good friends, I have seen enough tragedy of late; and if, I have
to describe a little to-night, let us look at matters philosophically. If I received some hard
knocks from your kin, Mrs. Hilland--"

"Don't say 'Mrs. Hilland,'" interrupted his friend. "As I've told you before, my wife is 'Grace'
to you."

"So be it then. The hard knocks from your kin have materially added to my small stock of sense;
and I think the entire North will be wiser as well as sadder before many days pass. We have
been taught that taking Richmond and marching through the South will be no holiday picnic.
Major St. John has been right from the start. We must encounter brave, determined men; and,
whatever may be true of the leaders, the people are as sincere in their patriotism as we are.
They don't even dream that they are fighting in a bad cause. The majority will stand up for
it as stoutly and conscientiously as your husband for ours. Have I not done justice to your
kin, Grace?"

"Yes," she replied, with a faint smile.

"Then forgive me if I say that until four o'clock last Sunday afternoon, and in a fair, stand-up
fight between a Northern mob and a Southern mob, we whipped them."

"But I thought the men of the North prided themselves on their 'staying power.'"

"They had no 'staying power' when they found fresh regiments and batteries pouring in on their
flank and rear. I believe that retreat was then the proper thing. The wild panic that ensued
resulted naturally from the condition of the men and officers, and especially from the presence
of a lot of nondescript people that came to see the thing as a spectacle, a sort of gladiatorial
combat, upon which they could look at a safe distance. Two most excellent results have been
attained: I don't believe we shall ever send out another mob of soldiers; and I am sure that
a mob of men and women from Washington will never follow it to see the fun."

"I wish Beauregard had corralled them all--the mob of sight-seers, I mean," growled the major.
"I must say, Mr. Graham, that the hard knocks you and others have received may result in infinite
good. I think I take your meaning, and that we shall agree very nearly before you are through.
You know that I was ever bitterly opposed to the mad 'On to Richmond' cry; and now the cursed
insanity of the thing is clearly proved."

"I agree with you that it was all wrong--that it involved risks that never should have been
taken at this stage of the war; and I am told that General Scott and other veteran officers
disapproved of the measure. Nevertheless, it came wonderfully near being successful. We should
have gained the battle if the attack had been made earlier, or if that old muff, Patterson,
had done his duty."

"If you are not too tired, give us the whole movement, just as you saw it," said Hilland, his
eyes glowing with excitement.

"Oh, I feel well enough for another retreat tonight. My trouble was chiefly fatigue and lack
of sleep."

"Because you make light of wounds, we do not," said Grace.

"Hilland knows that the loss of a little blood as pale and watery as mine would be of small
account," was Graham's laughing response.

"Well, to begin at the beginning, I followed Patterson till convinced that his chief impulse
was to get away from the enemy. I then hastened to Washington only to learn that McDowell had
already had a heavy skirmish which was not particularly to our advantage. This was Saturday
morning, and the impression was that a general engagement would be fought almost immediately.
The fact that our army had met little opposition thus far created a false confidence. I did
not care to risk my pet horse, Mayburn. You must know, aunty, I've rechristened Firebrand in
your honor," said Graham. "I tried to get another mount, but could not obtain one for love
or money. Every beast and conveyance in the city seemed already engaged for the coming spectacle.
The majority of these civilians did not leave till early on Sunday morning, but I had plenty
of company on Saturday, when with my good horse I went in a rather leisurely way to Centerville;
for as a correspondent I had fairly accurate information of what was taking place, and had
heard that there would be no battle that day.

"I reached Centerville in the evening, and soon learned that the forward movement would take
place in the night. Having put my horse in thorough condition for the morrow, and made an enormous
supper through the hospitality of some staff-officers, I sought a quiet knoll on which to sleep
in soldier fashion under the sky, but found the scene too novel and beautiful for such prosaic
oblivion. I was on the highest ground I could find, and beneath and on either side of me were
the camp-fires of an army. Around the nearest of these could be seen the forms of the soldiers
in every picturesque attitude; some still cooking and making their rude suppers, others executing
double- shuffles like war-dances, more discussing earnestly and excitedly the prospects of
the coming day, and not a few looking pensively into the flames as if they saw pictures of
the homes and friends they might never see again. In the main, however, animation and jollity
prevailed; and from far and near came the sound of song, and laughter, and chaffing. Far down
the long slope toward the dark, wooded valley of Bull Run, the light of the fires shaded off
into such obscurity as the full moon permitted, while beyond the stream in the far distance
a long, irregular line of luminous haze marked the encampments of the enemy.

"As the night advanced the army grew quiet; near and distant sounds died away; the canvas tents
were like mounds of snow; and by the flickering, dying flames were multitudes of quiet forms.
At midnight few scenes could be more calm and beautiful, so tenderly did the light of the moon
soften and etherealize everything. Even the parked artillery lost much of its grim aspect,
and all nature seemed to breathe peace and rest.

"It was rumored that McDowell wished to make part of the march in the evening, and it would
have been well if he had done so. A little past midnight a general stir and bustle ran through
the sleeping army. Figures were seen moving hurriedly, men forming into lines, and there was
a general commotion. But there was no promptness of action. The soldiers stood around, sat
down, and at last lay on their arms and slept again. Mounting my horse, with saddle-bags well
stuffed with such rations as I could obtain, I sought the centres of information. It appeared
that the division under General Tyler was slow in starting, and blocked the march of the Second
and the Third Division. As I picked my way around, only a horse's sagacity kept me from crushing
some sleeping fellow's leg or arm, for a horse won't step on a man unless excited.

"Well, Tyler's men got out of the way at last in a haphazard fashion, and the Second and Third
Divisions were also steadily moving, but hours behind time. Such marching! It reminded one
of countrymen streaming along a road to a Fourth of July celebration.

"My main policy was to keep near the commander-in-chief, for thus I hoped to obtain from the
staff some idea of the plan of battle and where its brunt would fall. I confess that I was
disgusted at first, for the general was said to be ill, and he followed his columns in a carriage.
It seemed an odd way of leading an army. But he came out all right; and he did his duty as
a soldier and a general, although every one is cursing him to-day. He was the first man on
the real battlefield, and by no means the first to leave it.

"Of course I came and went along the line of march, or of straggling rather, as I pleased;
but I kept my eye on the general and his staff. I soon observed that he decided to make his
headquarters at the point where a road leading from the great Warrenton Turnpike passed to
the north through what is known as the 'Big Woods.' Tyler's command continued westward down
the turnpike to what is known as the Stone Bridge, a single substantial arch at which the enemy
were said to be in force. It now became clear that the first fighting would be there, and that
it was McDowell's plan to send his main force under Hunter and Heintzelman further north through
the woods to cross at some point above. I therefore followed Tyler's column, as that must soon
become engaged.

"The movements had all been so mortally slow that any chance for surprise was lost. As we approached
the bridge it was as lovely a summer morning as you would wish to see. I had ridden ahead with
the scouts. Thrushes, robins, and other birds were singing in the trees. Startled rabbits,
and a mother-bird with a brood of quails, scurried across the road, and all seemed as still
and peaceful as any Sunday that had ever dawned on the scene. It was hard to persuade one's
self that in front and rear were the forces of deadly war.

"We soon reached an eminence from which we saw what dispelled at once the illusion of sylvan
solitude. The sun had been shining an hour or two, and the bridge before us and the road beyond
were defended by abatis and other obstructions. On the further bank a line of infantry was
in full view with batteries in position prepared to receive us. I confess it sent a thrill
through every nerve when I first saw the ranks of the foe we must encounter in no mere pageant
of war.

"In a few moments our forces came up, and at first one brigade deployed on the left and another
on the right of the pike. At last I witnessed a scene that had the aspect of war. A great thirty-pound
Parrot gun unlimbered in the centre of the pike, and looked like a surly mastiff. In a moment
an officer, who understood his business, sighted it. There was a flash, bright even in the
July sunlight, a grand report awakening the first echoes of a battle whose thunder was heard
even in Washington; and a second later we saw the shell explode directly over the line of Confederate
infantry. Their ranks broke and melted away as if by magic."

"Good shot, well aimed. Oh heavens! what would I not give to be thirty years younger! Go on,
Graham, go on;" for the young man had stopped to take a sip of wine.

"Yes, Graham," cried Hilland, springing to his feet; "what next?"

"I fear we are doing Mr. Graham much wrong," Grace interrupted. "He must be going far beyond
his strength."

The young man had addressed his words almost solely to the major, not only out of courtesy,
but also for a reason that Grace partially surmised. He now turned and smiled into her flushed,
troubled face, and said, "I fear you find these details of war dull and wearisome."

"On the contrary, you are so vivid a raconteur that I fear Warren will start for the front
before you are through."

"When I am through you will think differently."

"But you are going beyond your strength."

"I assure you I am not; though I thank you for your thoughtfulness. I never felt better in
my life; and it gives me a kind of pleasure to make you all realize things as I saw them."

"And it gives us great pleasure to listen," cried Hilland. "Even Mrs. Mayburn there is knitting
as if her needles were bayonets; and Grace has the flush of a soldier's daughter on her cheeks."

"Oh, stop your chatter, and let Graham go on," said the major--"that is, if it's prudent for
him," he added from a severe sense of duty. "What followed that blessed shell?"

"A lame and impotent conclusion in the form of many other shells that evoked no reply; and
beyond his feeble demonstration Tyler did nothing. It seemed to me that a determined dash at
the bridge would have carried it. I was fretting and fuming about when a staff-officer gave
me a hint that nothing was to be done at present--that it was all only a feint, and that the
columns that had gone northward through the woods would begin the real work. His words were
scarcely spoken before I was making my way to the rear. I soon reached McDowell's carriage
at the intersection of the roads, and found it empty. Learning that the general, in his impatience,
had taken horse and galloped off to see what had become of his tardy commanders, I followed
at full speed.

"It was a wild, rough road, scarcely more than a lane through the woods; but Mayburn was equal
to it, and like a bird carried me through its gloomy shades, where I observed not a few skulkers
cowering in the brush as I sped by. I overtook Heintzelman's command as it was crossing the
run at Sudley's Ford; and such a scene of confusion I hope never to witness again. The men
were emptying their canteens and refilling them, laving their hands and faces, and refreshing
themselves generally. It was really quite a picnic. Officers were storming and ordering 'the
boys'--and boys they seemed, indeed--to move on; and by dint of much profanity, and the pressure
of those following, regiment after regiment at last straggled up the further bank, went into
brigade formation, and shambled forward."

"The cursed mob!" muttered the major.

"Well, poor fellows! they soon won my respect; and yet, as I saw them then, stopping to pick
blackberries along the road, I did feel like riding them down. I suppose my horse and I lowered
the stream somewhat as we drank, for the day had grown sultry and the sun's rays intensely
hot. Then I hastened on to find the general. It seemed as if we should never get out of the
woods, as if the army had lost itself in an interminable forest. Wild birds and game fled before
us; and I heard one soldier call out to another that it was 'a regular Virginia coon- hunt.'
As I reached the head of the column the timber grew thinner, and I was told that McDowell was
reconnoitring in advance. Galloping out into the open fields, I saw him far beyond me, already
the target of Rebel bullets. His staff and a company of cavalry were with him; and as I approached
he seemed rapidly taking in the topographical features of the field. Having apparently satisfied
himself, he galloped to the rear; and at the same time Hunter's troops came pouring out of
the woods.

"There was now a prospect of warm work and plenty of it. For the life of me I can't tell you
how the battle began. Our men came forward in an irregular manner, rushing onward impetuously,
halting unnecessarily, with no master mind directing. It seemed at first as if the mere momentum
of the march carried us under the enemy's fire; and then there was foolish delay. By the aid
of my powerful glass I was convinced that we might have walked right over the first thin Rebel
line on the ridge nearest us.

"The artillery exchanged shots awhile. Regiments under the command of General Burnside deployed
in the fields to the left of the road down which we had come; skirmishers were thrown out rapidly
and began their irregular firing at an absurd distance from the enemy. There was hesitancy,
delay; and the awkwardness of troops unaccustomed to act together in large bodies was enhanced
by the excitement inseparable from their first experience of real war.

"In spite of all this the battlefield began to present grand and inspiring effects. The troops
were debouching rapidly from the woods, their bayonets gleaming here and there through the
dust raised by their hurrying feet, and burning in serried lines when they were ranged under
the cloudless sun. In every movement made by every soldier the metal points in his accoutrements
flashed and scintillated. Again there was something very spirited in the appearance of a battery
rushed into position at a gallop--the almost instantaneous unlimbering, the caissons moving
to the rear, and the guns at the same moment thundering their defiance, while the smoke, lifting
slowly on the heavy air, rises and blends with that of the other side, and hangs like a pall
to leeward of the field. The grandest thing of all, however, was the change in the men. The
uncouth, coarsely jesting, blackberry-picking fellows that lagged and straggled to the battle
became soldiers in their instincts and rising excitement and courage, if not in machine-like
discipline and coolness. As I rode here and there I could see that they were erect, eager,
and that their eyes began to glow like coals from their dusty, sunburned visages. If there
were occasional evidences of fear, there were more of resolution and desire for the fray.

"The aspect of affairs on the ridge, where the enemy awaited us, did not grow encouraging.
With my glass I could see re-inforcements coming up rapidly during our delay. New guns were
seeking position, which was scarcely taken before there was a puff of smoke and their iron
message. Heavens! what a vicious sound those shells had! something between a whiz and a shriek.
Even the horses would cringe and shudder when one passed over them, and the men would duck
their heads, though the missile was thirty feet in the air. I suppose there was some awfully
wild firing on both sides; but I saw several of our men carried to the rear. But all this detail
is an old, old story to you, Major."

 "Yes, an old story, but one that can never lose its fierce charm. I
see it all as you describe it. Go on, and omit nothing you can
remember of the scene. Mrs. Mayburn looks as grim as one of your
cannon; and Grace, my child, you won't flinch, will you?"

"No, papa."

"That's my brave wife's child. She often said, 'Tell me all. I wish to know just what you have
passed through.'"

A brief glance assured Graham that her father's spirit was then supreme, and that she looked
with woman's admiration on a scene replete with the manhood woman most admires.

"I cannot describe to you the battle, as such," continued Graham. "I can only outline faintly
the picture I saw dimly through dust and smoke from my own standpoint. Being under no one's
orders, I could go where I pleased, and I tried to find the vital points. Of course, there
was much heavy fighting that I saw nothing of, movements unknown to me or caught but imperfectly.
During the preliminary conflict I remained on the right of Burnside's command near the Sudley
Road by which our army had reached the field.

"When at last his troops began to press forward, their advance was decided and courageous;
but the enemy held their own stubbornly. The fighting was severe and deadly, for we were now
within easy musket range. At one time I trembled for Burnside's lines, and I saw one of his
aides gallop furiously to the rear for help. It came almost immediately in the form of a fine
body of regulars under Major Sykes; and our wavering lines were rendered firm and more aggressive
than ever. At the same time it was evident that our forces were going into action off to the
right of the Sudley Road, and that another battery had opened on the enemy. I afterward learned
that they were Rickett's guns. Under this increasing and relentless pressure the enemy's lines
were seen to waver. Wild cheers went up from our ranks; and such is the power of the human
voice--the echo direct from the heart--that these shouts rose above the roar of the cannon,
the crash of musketry, and thrilled every nerve and fibre. Onward pressed our men; the Rebel
lines yielded, broke, and our foes retreated down the hill, but at a dogged, stubborn pace,
fighting as they went. Seeing the direction they were taking, I dashed into the Sudley Road
near which I had kept as the centre of operations. At the intersection of this road with the
Warrenton Turnpike was a stone house, and behind this the enemy rallied as if determined to
retreat no further. I had scarcely observed this fact when I saw a body of men forming in the
road just above me. In a few moments they were in motion. On they came, a resistless human
torrent with a roar of hoarse shouts and cries. I was carried along with them; but before we
reached the stone house the enemy broke and fled, and the whole Rebel line was swept back half
a mile or more.

"Thus you see that in the first severe conflict of the day, and when pitted against numbers
comparatively equal, we won a decided victory."

Both the major and Hilland drew a long breath of relief; and the former said: "I have been
hasty and unjust in my censure. If that raw militia could be made to fight at all, it can in
time be made to fight well. Mr. Graham, you have deeply gratified an old soldier to-night by
describing scenes that carry me back to the grand era of my life. I believe I was born to be
a soldier; and my old campaigns stand out in memory like sun-lighted mountain-tops. Forgive
such high-flown talk--I know it's not like me--but I've had to-night some of my old battle
excitement. I never thought to feel it again. We'll hear the rest of your story to-morrow.
I outrank you all, by age at least; and I now order 'taps.'"

Graham was not sorry, for in strong reaction a sudden sense of almost mortal weakness overcame
him. Even the presence of Grace, for whose sake, after all, he had unconsciously told his story,
could not sustain him any longer, and he sank back looking very white.

"You have overexerted yourself," she said gently, coming, to his side. "You should have stopped
when I cautioned you; or rather, we should have been more thoughtful."

"Perhaps I have overrated my strength--it's a fault of mine," was his smiling reply, "I shall
be perfectly well after a night's rest."

He had looked up at her as he spoke; and in that moment of weakness there was a wistful, hungry
look in his eyes that smote her heart.

A shallow, silly woman, or an intensely selfish one, would have exulted. Here was a man, cool,
strong, and masterful among other men-- a man who had gone to the other side of the globe to
escape her power --one who within the last few days had witnessed a battle with the quiet poise
that enabled him to study it as an artist or a tactician; and yet he could not keep his eyes
from betraying the truth that there was something within his heart stronger than himself.

Did Grace Hilland lay this flattering unction to her soul? No. She went away inexpressibly
sad. She felt that two battle scenes had been presented to her mind; and the conflict that
had been waged silently, patiently, and unceasingly in a strong man's soul had to her the higher
elements of heroism. It was another of those wretched problems offered by this imperfect world
for which there seems no remedy.

When Hilland hastened over to see his friend and add a few hearty words to those he had already
spoken, he was told that he was sleeping.

 CHAPTER XXI

THE LOGIC OF EVENTS

Graham was right in his prediction that another night's rest would carry him far on the road
to recovery; and he insisted, when Hilland called in the morning, that the major should remain
in his accustomed chair at home, and listen to the remainder of the story. "My habit of life
is so active," he said, "that a little change will do me good;" and so it was arranged. By
leaning on Hilland's shoulder he was able to limp the short distance between the cottages;
and he found that Grace had made every arrangement for his comfort on the piazza, where the
major welcomed him with almost the eagerness of a child for whom an absorbing story is to be
continued.

"You can't know how you interested us all last night," Grace began. "I never knew papa to be
more gratified; and as for Warren, he could not sleep for excitement. Where did you learn to
tell stories?"

"I was said to be very good at fiction when a boy, especially when I got into scrapes. But
you can't expect in this garish light any such effects as I may have created last evening.
It requires the mysterious power of night and other conditions to secure a glamour; and so
you must look for the baldest prose to-day."

"Indeed, Graham, we scarcely know what to expect from you any more," Hilland remarked. "From
being a quiet cynic philosopher, content to delve in old libraries like the typical bookworm,
you become an indefatigable sportsman, horse-tamer, explorer of the remote parts of the earth,
and last, and strangest, a newspaper correspondent who doesn't know that the place to see and
write about battles is several miles in the rear. What will you do next?"

"My future will be redeemed from the faintest trace of eccentricity. I shall do what about
a million other Americans will do eventually--go into the army."

"Ah! now you talk sense, and I am with you. I shall be ready to go as soon as you are well enough."

"I doubt it."

"I don't."

"Grace, what do you say to all this?" turning a troubled look upon the wife.

"I foresee that, like my mother, I am to be the wife of a soldier," she replied with a smile,
while tears stood in her eyes. "I did not marry Warren to destroy his sense of manhood."

"You see, Graham, how it is. You also perceive what a knight I must be to be worthy of the
lady I leave in bower."

"Yes; I see it all too well. But I must misquote Shakespeare to you, and 'charge you to stand
on the order of your going;' and I think the rest of my story will prove that I have good reason
for the charge."

"I should have been sorry," said the major, "to have had Grace marry a man who would consult
only ease and safety in times like these. It will be awfully hard to have him go. But the time
may soon come when it would be harder for Grace to have him stay; that is, if she is like her
mother. But what's the use of looking at the gloomy side? I've been through a dozen battles;
and here I am to plague the world yet. But now for the story. You left off, Mr. Graham, at
the rout of the first Rebel line of battle."

"And this had not been attained," resumed Graham, "without serious loss to our side. Colonel
Hunter, who commanded the Second Division, you remember, was so severely wounded by a shell
that he had to leave the field early in the action. Colonel Slocum of one of the Rhode Island
regiments was mortally wounded; and his major had his leg crushed by a cannon ball which at
the same time killed his horse. Many others were wounded and must have had a hard time of it,
poor fellows, that hot day. As for the dead that strewed the ground--their troubles were over."

"But not the troubles of those that loved them," said Grace, bitterly.

Graham turned hastily away. When a moment later he resumed his narrative, she noticed that
his eyes were moist and his tones husky.

"Our heaviest loss was in the demoralization of some of the regiments engaged. They appeared
to have so little cohesion that one feared all the time that they might crumble away into mere
human atoms.

"The affair continually took on a larger aspect, as more troops became engaged. We had driven
the Confederates down a gentle slope, across a small stream called Young's Branch, and up a
hill beyond and to the south. This position was higher and stronger than any they had yet occupied.
On the crest of the hill were two houses; and the enemy could be seen forming a line extending
from one to the other. They were evidently receiving re-enforcements rapidly. I could see gray
columns hastening forward and deploying; and I've no doubt that many of the fugitives were
rallied beyond this line. Meanwhile, I was informed that Tyler's Division, left in the morning
at Stone Bridge, had crossed the Run, in obedience to McDowell's orders, and were on the field
at the left of our line. Such, as far as I could judge, was the position of affairs between
twelve and one, although I can give you only my impressions. It appeared to me that our men
were fighting well, gradually and steadily advancing, and closing in upon the enemy. Still,
I cannot help feeling that if we had followed up our success by the determined charge of one
brigade that would hold together, the hill might have been swept, and victory made certain.

"I had taken my position near Rickett's and Griffin's batteries on the right of our line, and
decided to follow them up, not only because they were doing splendid work, but also for the
reason that they would naturally be given commanding positions at vital points. By about two
o'clock we had occupied the Warrenton Turnpike; and we justly felt that much had been gained.
The Confederate lines between the two houses on the hill had given way; and from the sounds
we heard, they must have been driven back also by a charge on our extreme left. Indeed, there
was scarcely anything to be seen of the foe that thus far had been not only seen but felt.

"From a height near the batteries where I stood, the problem appeared somewhat clear to me.
We had driven the enemy up and over a hill of considerable altitude, and across an uneven plateau,
and they were undoubtedly in the woods beyond, a splendid position which commanded the entire
open space over which we must advance to reach them. They were in cover; we should be in full
view in all efforts to dislodge them. Their very reverses had secured for them a position worth
half a dozen regiments; and I trembled as I thought of our raw militia advancing under conditions
that would try the courage of veterans. You remember that if Washington, in the Revolution,
could get his new recruits behind a rail-fence, they thought they were safe.

"Well, there was no help for it. The hill and plateau must be crossed under a pointblank fire,
in order to reach the enemy, and that, too, by men who had been under arms since midnight,
and the majority wearied by a long march under a blazing sun.

"About half-past two, when the assault began, a strange and ominous quiet rested on the field.
As I have said, the enemy had disappeared. The men scarcely knew what to think of it; and in
some a false confidence, speedily dispelled, was begotten. Rickett's battery was moved down
across the valley to the top of a hill just beyond the residence owned and occupied by a Mrs.
Henry. I followed and entered the house, already shattered by shot and shell, curious to know
whether it was occupied, and by whom. Pitiful to relate, I found that Mrs. Henry was a widow
and a helpless invalid. The poor woman was in mortal terror; and it was my hope to return and
carry her to some place of safety, but the swift and deadly tide of war gave me no chance.
[Footnote: Mrs. Henry, although confined to her bed, was wounded two or three times, and died
soon afterward.]

"Ricketts' battery had scarcely unlimbered before death was busy among his cannoneers and even
his horses. The enemy had the cover not only of the woods, but of a second growth of pines,
which fringed them and completely concealed the Rebel sharpshooters. When a man fell, nothing
could be seen but a puff of smoke. These little jets and wreaths of smoke half encircled us,
and made but a phantom-like target for our people; and I think it speaks well for officers
and men that they not only did their duty, but that Griffin's battery also came up, and that
both batteries held their own against a terrific pointblank fire from the Rebel cannon, which
certainly exceeded ours in number. The range was exceedingly short, and a more terrific artillery
duel it would be hard to imagine. At the same time the more deadly little puffs of smoke continued;
and men in every attitude of duty would suddenly throw up their hands and fall. The batteries
had no business to be so exposed, and their supports were of no real service.

"I can give you an idea of what occurred at this point only; but, from the sounds I heard,
there was very heavy fighting elsewhere, which I fear, however, was too spasmodic and ill-directed
to accomplish the required ends. A heavy, persistent, concentrated attack, a swift push with
the bayonet through the low pines and woods, would have saved the day. Perhaps our troops were
not equal to it; and yet, poor fellows, they did braver things that were utterly useless.

"I still believe, however, all might have gone well, had it not been for a horrible mistake.
I was not very far from Captain Griffin, and was watching his cool, effective superintendence
of his guns, when suddenly I noticed a regiment in full view on our right advancing toward
us. Griffin caught sight of it at the same moment, and seemed amazed. Were they Confederates
or National? was the question to be decided instantly. They might be his own support. Doubtful
and yet exceedingly apprehensive, he ordered his guns to be loaded with canister and trained
upon this dubious force that had come into view like an apparition; but he still hesitated,
restrained, doubtless, by the fearful thought of annihilating a Union regiment.

"'Captain,' said Major Barry, chief of artillery, 'they are your battery support.'

"'They are Confederates.' Griffin replied, intensely excited. 'As certain as the world, they
are Confederates.'

"'No,' was the answer, 'I know they are your battery support.'

"I had ridden up within ear-shot, and levelled my glass upon them. 'Don't fire,' cried Griffin,
and he spurred forward to satisfy himself.

"At the same moment the regiment, now within short range, by a sudden instantaneous act levelled
their muskets at us. I saw we were doomed, and yet by some instinct tightened my rein while
I dug my spurs into my horse. He reared instantly. I saw a line of fire, and then poor Mayburn
fell upon me, quivered, and was dead. The body of a man broke my fall in such a way that I
was not hurt. Indeed, at the moment I was chiefly conscious of intense anger and disgust. If
Griffin had followed his instinct and destroyed that regiment, as he could have done by one
discharge, the result of the whole battle might have been different. As it was, both his and
Rickett's batteries were practically annihilated." [Footnote: Since the above was written Colonel
Hasbrouck has given me an account of this crisis in the battle. He was sufficiently near to
hear the conversation found in the text, and to enable me to supplement it by fuller details.
Captain Griffin emphatically declared that no Union regiment could possibly come from that
quarter, adding, "They are dressed in gray."

Major Barry with equal emphasis asserted that they were National troops, and unfortunately
we had regiments in gray uniforms. Seeing that Captain Griffin was not convinced, he said peremptorily,
"I command you not to fire on that regiment."

Of course this direct order ended the controversy, and Captain Griffin directed that his guns
be shifted again toward the main body of the enemy, while he rode forward a little space to
reconnoitre.

During all this fatal delay the Confederate regiment was approaching, marching by the flank,
and so passed at one time within pointblank range of the guns that would scarcely have left
a man upon his feet. The nature of their advance was foolhardy in the extreme, and at the time
that Captain Griffin wished to fire they were practically helpless. A Virginia worm-fence was
in their path, and so frightened, nervous, and excited were they that, instead of tearing it
down, they began clambering over it until by weight and numbers it was trampled under foot.

They approached so near that the order to "fire low" was distinctly heard by our men as the
Confederates went into battle-line formation.

The scene following their volley almost defies description. The horses attached to caissons
not only tore down and through the ascending National battle-line, but Colonel--then Lieutenant--Hasbrouck
saw several teams dash over the knoll toward the Confederate regiment, that opened ranks to
let them pass. So novel were the scenes of war at that time that the Confederates were as much
astonished as the members of the batteries left alive, and at first did not advance, although
it was evident that there were, at the moment, none to oppose them. The storm of Rebel bullets
had ranged so low that Lieutenant Hasbrouck and Captain Griffin owed their safety to the fact
that they were mounted. The horses of both officers were wounded. On the way down the northern
slope of the hill, with the few Union survivors, Captain Griffin met Major Barry, and in his
intense anger and grief reproached him bitterly. The latter gloomily admitted that he had been
mistaken.

Captain Ricketts was wounded, and the battle subsequently surged back and forth over his prostrate
form, but eventually he was sent as a captive to Richmond.]

The major uttered an imprecation.

"I was pinned to the ground by the weight of my horse, but not so closely but that I could
look around. The carnage had been frightful. But few were on their feet, and they in rapid
motion to the rear. The horses left alive rushed down the hill with the caissons, spreading
dismay, confusion, and disorder through the ascending line of battle. Our supporting regiment
in the rear, that had been lying on their arms, sprang to their feet and stood like men paralyzed
with horror; meanwhile, the Rebel regiment, re-enforced, was advancing rapidly on the disabled
guns--their defenders lay beneath and around them--firing as they came. Our support gave them
one ineffectual volley, then turned and fled."

Again the major relieved his mind in his characteristic way.

"But you, Alford?" cried Grace, leaning forward with clasped hands, while his aunt came and
buried her face upon his shoulder. "Are you keeping your promise to live?" she whispered.

"Am I not here safe and sound?" he replied, cheerily. "Nothing much happened to me, Grace.
When I saw the enemy was near, I merely doubled myself up under my horse, and was nothing to
them but a dead Yankee. I was only somewhat trodden upon, as I told you, when the Confederates
tried to turn the guns against our forces.

"I fear I am doing a wrong to the ladies by going into these sanguinary details."

"No," said the major, emphatically; "Mrs. Mayburn would have been a general had she been a
man; and Grace has heard about battles all her life. It's a great deal better to understand
from the start what this war means."

"I especially wished Hilland to hear the details of this battle as far as I saw them, for I
think they contain lessons that may be of great service to him. That he would engage in the
war was a foregone conclusion from the first; and with his means and ability he may take a
very important part in it. But of this later.

"As I told you, I made the rather close acquaintance of your kin, Grace, and can testify that
the 'fa' of their feet' was not 'fairy- like.' Before they could accomplish their purpose of
turning the guns on our lines, I heard the rushing tramp of a multitude, with defiant shouts
and yells. Rebels fell around me. The living left the guns, sought to form a line, but suddenly
gave way in dire confusion, and fled to the cover from which they came. A moment later a body
of our men surged like an advancing wave over the spot they had occupied.

"Now was my chance; and I reached up and seized the hand of a tall, burly Irishman. "What the
divil du ye want?" he cried, and in his mad excitement was about to thrust me through for a
Confederate.

"'Halt!' I thundered. The familiar word of command restrained him long enough for me to secure
his attention. 'Would you kill a Union man?'"

"'Is it Union ye are? What yez doin' here, thin, widut a uniform?'

"I showed him my badge of correspondent, and explained briefly.

"Strange as it may seem to you, he uttered a loud, jolly laugh. 'Faix, an' it's a writer ye
are. Ye'll be apt to git some memmyrandums the day that ye'll carry about wid ye till ye die,
and that may be in about a minnit. I'll shtop long enough to give yez a lift, or yez hoss,
rather;' and he seized poor Mayburn by the head. His excitement seemed to give him the strength
of a giant, for in a moment I was released and stood erect.

"'Give me a musket,' I cried, 'and I'll stand by you.'

"'Bedad, hilp yersilf,' he replied, pushing forward. 'There's plenty o' fellers lyin' aroun'
that has no use for them;' and he was lost in the confused advance.

"All this took place in less time than it takes to describe it, for events at that juncture
were almost as swift as bullets. Lame as I was, I hobbled around briskly, and soon secured
a good musket with a supply of cartridges. As with the rest, my blood was up--don't smile,
Hilland: I had been pretty cool until the murderous discharge that killed my horse--and I was
soon in the front line, firing with the rest.

"Excited as I was, I saw that our position was desperate, for a heavy force of Confederates
was swarming toward us. I looked around and saw that part of our men were trying to drag off
the guns. This seemed the more important work; and discretion also whispered that with my bruised
foot I should be captured in five minutes unless I was further to the rear. So I took a pull
at a gun; but we had made little progress before there was another great surging wave from
the other direction, and our forces were swept down the hill again, I along with the rest.
The confusion was fearful; the regiments with which I had been acting went all to pieces, and
had no more organization than if they had been mixed up by a whirlwind.

"I was becoming too lame to walk, and found myself in a serious dilemma." "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed
Hilland. "It was just becoming serious, eh?"

"Well, I didn't realize my lameness before; and as retreat was soon to be order of the day,
there was little prospect of my doing my share. As I was trying to extricate myself from the
shattered regiments, I saw a riderless horse plunging toward me. To seize his bridle and climb
into the saddle was the work of a moment; and I felt that, unlike McDowell, I was still master
of the situation. Working my out of the press and to our right, I saw that another charge for
the guns by fresh troops was in progress. It seemed successful at first. The guns were retaken,
but soon the same old story was repeated, and a corresponding rush from the other side swept
our men back.

"Would you believe it, this capture and recapture occurred several times. A single regiment
even would dash forward, and actually drive the Rebels back, only to lose a few moments later
what they had gained. Never was there braver fighting, never worse tactics. The repeated successes
of small bodies of troops proved that a compact battle line could have swept the ridge, and
not only retaken the guns, but made them effective in the conflict. As it was, the two sides
worried and tore each other like great dogs, governed merely by the impulse and instinct of
fight. The batteries were the bone between them.

"This senseless, wasteful struggle could not go on forever. That it lasted as long as it did
speaks volumes in favor of the material of which our future soldiers are to be made. As I rode
slowly from the line and scene of actual battle, of which I had had enough, I became disheartened.
We had men in plenty--there were thousands on every side--but in what condition! There was
no appearance of fear among the men I saw at about four P.M. (I can only guess the time, for
my watch had stopped), but abundant evidence of false confidence and still more of the indifference
of men who feel they have done all that should be required of them and are utterly fagged out.
Multitudes, both officers and privates, were lying and lounging around waiting for their comrades
to finish the ball.

"For instance, I would ask a man to what regiment he belonged, and he would tell me.

"'Where is it?'

"'Hanged if I know. Saw a lot of the boys awhile ago.'

"Said an officer in answer to my inquiries, 'No; I don't know where the colonel is, and I don't
care. After one of our charges we all adjourned like a town meeting. I'm played out; have been
on my feet since one o'clock last night.'

"These instances were characteristic of the state of affairs in certain parts of the field
that I visited. Plucky or conscientious fellows would join their comrades in the fight without
caring what regiment they acted with; but the majority of the great disorganized mass did what
they pleased, after the manner of a country fair, crowding in all instances around places where
water could be obtained. Great numbers had thrown away their canteens and provisions, as too
heavy to carry in the heat, or as impediments in action. Officers and men were mixed up promiscuously,
hobnobbing and chaffing in a languid way, and talking over their experiences, as if they were
neighbors at home. The most wonderful part of it all was that they had no sense of their danger
and of the destruction they were inviting by their unsoldierly course.

"I tried to impress these dangers on one or two, but the reply was, 'Oh, hang it! The Rebs
are as badly used up as we are. Don't you see things are growing more quiet? Give us a rest!'

"By this time I had worked my way well to my right, and was on a little eminence watching our
line advance, wondering at the spirit with which the fight was still maintained. Indeed, I
grew hopeful once more as I saw the good work that the regiments still intact were doing. There
was much truth in the remark that the Rebels were used up also, unless they had reserves of
which we knew nothing. At that time we had no idea that we had been fighting, not only Beauregard,
but also Johnson from the Shenandoah.

"My hope was exceedingly intensified by the appearance of a long line of troops emerging from
the woods on our flank and rear, for I never dreamed that they could be other than our own
re-enforcements. Suddenly I caught sight of a flag which I had learned to know too well. The
line halted a moment, muskets were levelled, and I found myself in a perfect storm of bullets.
I assure you I made a rapid change of base, for when our line turned I should be between two
fires. As it was, I was cut twice in this arm while galloping away. In a few moments a battery
also opened upon our flank; and it became as certain as day that a large Confederate force
from some quarter had been hurled upon the flank and rear of our exhausted forces. The belief
that Johnson's army had arrived spread like wildfire. How absurd and crude it all seems now!
We had been fighting Johnson from the first.

"All aggressive action on our part now ceased; and as if governed by one common impulse, the
army began its retreat.

"Try to realize it. Our retirement was not ordered. There were thousands to whom no order could
be given unless with a voice like a thunder peal. Indeed, one may say, the order was given
by the thunder of that battery on our flank. It was heard throughout the field; and the army,
acting as individuals or in detachments, decided to leave. To show how utterly bereft of guidance,
control, and judgment were our forces, I have merely to say that each man started back by exactly
the same route he had come, just as a horse would do, while right before them was the Warrenton
Pike, a good, straight road direct to Centerville, which was distant but little over four miles.

"This disorganized, exhausted mob was as truly in just the fatal condition for the awful contagion
we call 'panic' as it would have been from improper food and other causes, for some other epidemic.
The Greeks, who always had a reason for everything, ascribed the nameless dread, the sudden
and unaccountable fear, which bereaves men of manhood and reason, to the presence of a god.
It is simply a latent human weakness, which certain conditions rarely fail to develop. They
were all present at the close of that fatal day. I tell you frankly that I felt something of
it myself, and at a time, too, when I knew I was not in the least immediate danger. To counteract
it I turned and rode deliberately toward the enemy, and the emotion passed. I half believe,
however, that if I had yielded, it would have carried me away like an attack of the plague.
The moral of it all is, that the conditions of the disease should be guarded against.

"When it became evident that the army was uncontrollable and was leaving the field, I pressed
my way to the vicinity of McDowell to see what he would do. What could he do? I never saw a
man so overwhelmed with astonishment and anger. Almost to the last I believe he expected to
win the day. He and his officers commanded, stormed, entreated. He might as well have tried
to stop Niagara above the falls as that human tide. He sent orders in all directions for a
general concentration at Centerville, and then with certain of his staff galloped away. I tried
to follow, but was prevented by the interposing crowd.

"I then joined a detachment of regulars and marines, who marched quietly in prompt obedience
of orders; and we made our way through the disorder like a steamer through the surging waves.
All the treatises on discipline that were ever written would not have been so convincing as
that little oasis of organization. They marched very slowly, and often halted to cover the retreat.

"I had now seen enough on the further bank of Bull Run, and resolved to push ahead as fast
as my horse would walk to the eastern side. Moreover, my leg and wounds were becoming painful,
and I was exceedingly weary. I naturally followed the route taken by Tyler's command in coming
upon and returning from the field, and crossed Bull Run some distance above the Stone Bridge.
The way was so impeded by fugitives that my progress was slow, but when I at last reached the
Warrenton Turnpike and proceeded toward a wretched little stream called Cub Run, I witnessed
a scene that beggars description.

"Throughout the entire day, and especially in the afternoon, vehicles of every description--supply
wagons, ambulances, and the carriages of civilians--had been congregating in the Pike vicinity
of Stone Bridge. When the news of the defeat reached this point, and the roar of cannon and
musketry began to approach instead of recede, a general movement toward Centerville began.
This soon degenerated into the wildest panic, and the road was speedily choked by storming,
cursing, terror- stricken men, who in their furious haste, defeated their own efforts to escape.
It was pitiful, it was shameful, to see ambulances full of the wounded shoved to one side and
left by the cowardly thieves who had galloped away on the horses. It was one long scene of
wreck and ruin, through which pressed a struggling, sweating, cursing throng. Horses with their
traces cut, and carrying two and even three men, were urged on and over everybody that could
not get out of the way. Everything was abandoned that would impede progress, and arms and property
of all kinds were left as a rich harvest for the pursuing Confederates. Their cavalry, hovering
near, like hawks eager for the prey, made dashes here and there, as opportunity offered.

"I picked my way through the woods rather than take my chances in the road, and so my progress
was slow. To make matters tenfold worse, I found when I reached the road leading to the north
through the 'Big Woods' that the head of the column that had come all the way around by Sudley's
Ford, the route of the morning march, was mingling with the masses already thronging the Pike.
The confusion, the selfish, remorseless scramble to get ahead, seemed as horrible as it could
be; but imagine the condition of affairs when on reaching the vicinity of Cub Run we found
that a Rebel battery had opened upon the bridge, our only visible means of crossing. A few
moments later, from a little eminence, I saw a shot take effect on a team of horses; and a
heavy caisson was overturned directly in the centre of the bridge, barring all advance, while
the mass of soldiers, civilians, and nondescript army followers, thus detained under fire,
became perfectly wild with terror. The caisson was soon removed, and the throng rushed on.

"I had become so heart-sick, disgusted, and weary of the whole thing, that my one impulse was
to reach Centerville, where I supposed we should make a stand. As I was on the north side of
the Pike, I skirted up the stream with a number of others until we found a place where we could
scramble across, and soon after we passed within a brigade of our troops that were thrown across
the road to check the probable pursuit of the enemy.

"On reaching Centerville, we found everything in the direst confusion. Colonel Miles, who commanded
the reserves at that point, was unfit for the position, and had given orders that had imperilled
the entire army. It was said that the troops which had come around by Sudley's ford had lost
all their guns at Cub Run; and the fugitives arriving were demoralized to the last degree.
Indeed, a large part of the army, without waiting for orders or paying heed to any one, continued
their flight toward Washington. Holding the bridle of my horse, I lay down near headquarters
to rest and to learn what would be done. A council of war was held, and as the result we were
soon on the retreat again. The retreat, or panic-stricken flight rather, had, in fact, never
ceased on the part of most of those who had been in the main battle. That they could keep up
this desperate tramp was a remarkable example of human endurance when sustained by excitement,
fear, or any strong emotion. The men who marched or fled on Sunday night had already been on
their feet twenty-four hours, and the greater part of them had experienced the terrific strain
of actual battle.

"My story has already been much too long. From the daily journals you have learned pretty accurately
what occurred after we reached Centerville. Richardson's and Blenker's brigades made a quiet
and orderly retreat when all danger to the main body was over. The sick and wounded were left
behind with spoils enough to equip a good-sized Confederate army. I followed the headquarters
escort, and eventually made my way into Washington in the drenching rain of Monday, and found
the city crowded with fugitives to whom the loyal people were extending unbounded hospitality.
I felt ill and feverish, and yielded to the impulse to reach home; and I never acted more wisely.

"Now you have the history of my first battle; and may I never see one like it again. And yet
I believe the battle of Bull Run will become one of the most interesting studies of American
history and character. On our side it was not directed by generals, according to the rules
of war. It was fought by Northern men after their own fashion and according to their native
genius; and I shall ever maintain that it was fought far better than could have been expected
of militia who knew less of the practical science of war than of the philosophy of Plato.

"The moral of my story, Hilland, scarcely needs pointing; and it applies to us both. When we
go, let us go as soldiers; and if we have only a corporal's command, let us lead soldiers.
The grand Northern onset of which you have dreamed so long has been made. You have seen the
result. You have the means and ability to equip and command a regiment. Infuse into it your
own spirit; and at the same time make it a machine that will hold together as long as you have
a man left."

"Graham," said Hilland, slowly and deliberately, "there is no resisting the logic of events.
You have convinced me of my error, and I shall follow your advice."

"And, Grace," concluded Graham, "believe me, by so doing he adds tenfold to his chances of
living to a good old age."

"Yes," she said, looking at him gratefully through tear-dimmed eyes. "You have convinced me
of that also."

"Instead of rushing off to some out-of-the-way place or camp, he must spend months in recruiting
and drilling his men; and you can be with him."

"Oh, Alford!" she exclaimed, "is that the heavenly logic of your long, terrible story?"

"It's the rational logic; you could not expect any other kind from me."

"Well, Graham," ejaculated the major, with a long sigh of relief, "I wouldn't have missed your
account of the battle for a year's pay. And mark my words, young men, you may not live to see
it, or I either, but the North will win in this fight. That's the fact that I'm convinced of
in spite of the panic."

"The fact that I'm convinced of," said Mrs. Mayburn brusquely, mopping her eyes meanwhile,
"is that Alford needs rest. I'm going to take him home at once." And the young man seconded
her in spite of all protestations.

"Dear, vigilant old aunty," said Graham, when they were alone, "you know when I have reached
the limit of endurance."

"Ah! Alford, Alford," moaned the poor woman, "I fear you are seeking death in this war."

He looked at her tenderly for a moment, and then said, "Hereafter I will try to take no greater
risks than a soldier's duties require."

CHAPTER XXII

SELF-SENTENCED

Days, weeks, and months with their changes came and went. Hilland, with characteristic promptness,
carried out his friend's suggestion; and through his own means and personal efforts, in great
measure, recruited and equipped a regiment of cavalry. He was eager that his friend should
take a command in it; but Graham firmly refused.

"Our relations are too intimate for discipline," he said. "We might be placed in situations
wherein our friendship would embarrass us."

Grace surmised that he had another reason; for, as time passed, she saw less and less of him.
He had promptly obtained a lieutenancy in a regiment that was being recruited at Washington;
and by the time her husband's regiment reached that city, the more disciplined organization
to which Graham was attached was ordered out on the Virginia picket line beyond Arlington Heights.

Hilland, with characteristic modesty, would not take the colonelcy of the regiment that he
chiefly had raised; but secured for the place a fine officer of the regular army, and contented
himself with a captaincy. "Efficiency of the service is what I am aiming at," he said. "I would
much rather rise by merit from the ranks than command a brigade by favor."

Unlike many men of wealth, he had a noble repugnance to taking any public advantage of it;
and the numerous officers of the time that had obtained their positions by influence were his
detestation.

Graham's predictions in regard to Grace were fulfilled. For long months she saw her husband
almost daily, and, had it not been for the cloud that hung over the future, it would have been
one of the happiest periods of her life. She saw Hilland engaged in tasks that brought him
a deep and growing satisfaction. She saw her father in his very element. There were no more
days of dulness and weariness for him. The daily journals teemed with subjects of interest,
and with their aid he planned innumerable campaigns. Military men were coming and going, and
with these young officers the veteran was an oracle. He gave Hilland much shrewd advice; and
even when it was not good, it was listened to with deference, and so the result was just as
agreeable to the major.

What sweeter joy is there for the aged than to sit in the seat of judgment and counsel, and
feel that the world would go awry were it not for the guidance and aid of their experience!
Alas for the poor old major, and those like him! The world does not grow old as they do. It
only changes and becomes more vast and complicated. What was wisest and best in their day becomes
often as antiquated as the culverin that once defended castellated ramparts.

Happily the major had as yet no suspicion of this; and when he and Grace accompanied Hilland
and his regiment to Washington, the measure of his content was full. There he could daily meet
other veterans of the regular service; and in listening to their talk, one might imagine that
McClellan had only to attend their sittings to learn how to subdue the rebellion within a few
months. These veterans were not bitter partisans. General Robert E. Lee was "Bob Lee" to them;
and the other chiefs of the Confederacy were spoken of by some familiar sobriquet, acquired
in many instances when boys at West Point. They would have fought these old friends and acquaintances
to the bitter end, according to the tactics of the old school; but after the battle, those
that survived would have hobnobbed together over a bottle of wine as sociably as if they had
been companions in arms.

Mrs. Mayburn accompanied the major's party to Washington, for, as she said, she was "hungry
for a sight of her boy." As often as his duties permitted, Graham rode in from the front to
see her. But it began to be noticed that after these visits he ever sought some perilous duty
on the picket line, or engaged in some dash at the enemy or guerillas in the vicinity. He could
not visit his aunt without seeing Grace, whose tones were now so gentle when she spoke to him,
and so full of her heart's deep gratitude, that a renewal of his old fierce fever of unrest
was the result. He was already gaining a reputation for extreme daring, combined with unusual
coolness and vigilance; and before the campaign of '62 opened he had been promoted to a first
lieutenancy.

Time passed; the angry torrent of the war broadened and deepened. Men and measures that had
stood out like landmarks were engulfed and forgotten.

It goes without saying that the friends did their duty in camp and field. There were no more
panics. The great organizer, McClellan, had made soldiers of the vast army; and had he been
retained in the service as the creator of armies for other men to lead, his labors would have
been invaluable.

At last, to the deep satisfaction of Graham and Hilland, their regiments were brigaded together,
and they frequently met. It was then near the close of the active operations of '62, and the
friends now ranked as Captain Graham and Major Hilland. Notwithstanding the reverses suffered
by the Union arms, the young men's confidence was unabated as to the final issue. Hilland had
passed through several severe conflicts, and his name had been mentioned by reason of his gallantry.
Grace began to feel that fate could never be so cruel as to destroy her very life in his life.
She saw that her father exulted more over her husband's soldierly qualities than in all his
wealth; and although they spent the summer season as usual at the seaside with Mrs. Mayburn,
the hearts of all three were following two regiments through the forests and fields of Virginia.
Half a score of journals were daily searched for items concerning them, and the arrival of
the mails was the event of the day.

There came a letter in the autumn which filled the heart of Grace with immeasurable joy and
very, very deep sadness. Mrs. Mayburn was stricken to the heart, and would not be comforted,
while the old major swore and blessed God by turns.

The cause was this. The brigade with which the friends were connected was sent on a reconnaissance,
and they felt the enemy strongly before retiring, which at last they were compelled to do precipitately.
It so happened that Hilland commanded the rear-guard. In an advance he ever led; on a retreat
he was apt to keep well to the rear. In the present instance the pursuit had been prompt and
determined, and he had been compelled to make more than one repelling charge to prevent the
retiring column from being pressed too hard. His command had thus lost heavily, and at last
overwhelming numbers drove them back at a gallop.

Graham, in the rear of the main column, which had just crossed a small wooden bridge over a
wide ditch or little run through the fields, saw the headlong retreat of Hilland's men, and
he instantly deployed his company that he might check the close pursuit by a volley. As the
Union troopers neared the bridge it was evidently a race for life and liberty, for they were
outnumbered ten to one. In a few moments they began to pour over, but Hilland did not lead.
They were nearly all across, but their commander was not among them; and Graham was wild with
anxiety as he sat on his horse at the right of his line waiting to give the order to fire.
Suddenly, in the failing light of the evening, he saw Hilland with his right arm hanging helpless,
spurring a horse badly blown; while gaining fast upon him were four savage- looking Confederates,
their sabres emitting a steely, deadly sheen, and uplifted to strike the moment they could
reach him.

With the rapidity of light, Graham's eye measured the distance between his friend and the bridge,
and his instantaneous conviction was that Hilland was doomed, for he could not order a volley
without killing him almost to a certainty. At that supreme crisis, the suggestion passed through
his mind like a lurid flash, "In a few moments Hilland will be dead, and Grace may yet be mine."

Then, like an avenging demon, the thought confronted him. He saw it in its true aspect, and
in an outburst of self-accusing fury he passed the death sentence on himself. Snatching out
the long, straight sword he carried, he struck with the spur the noble horse he bestrode, gave
him the rein, and made straight for the deep, wide ditch. There was no time to go around by
the bridge, which was still impeded by the last of the fugitives.

His men held their breath as they saw his purpose. The feat seemed impossible; but as his steed
cleared the chasm by a magnificent bound, a loud cheer rang down the line. The next moment
Hilland, who had mentally said farewell to his wife, saw Graham passing him like a thunderbolt.
There was an immediate clash of steel, and then the foremost pursuer was down, cleft to the
jaw. The next shared the same fate; for Graham, in what he deemed his death struggle, had almost
ceased to be human. His spirit, stung to a fury that it had never known and would never know
again, blazed in his eyes and flashed in the lightning play of his sword. The two others pursuers
reined up their steeds and sought to attack him on either side. He threw his own horse back
almost upon his haunches, and was on his guard, meaning to strike home the moment the fence
of his opponents permitted. At this instant, however, there were a dozen shots from the swarming
Rebels, that were almost upon him, and he and his horse were seen to fall to the ground. Meantime
Hilland had instinctively tried to rein in his horse, that he might return to the help of his
friend, although from his wound he could render no aid. Some of his own men who had crossed
the bridge, and in a sense of safety had regained their wits, saw his purpose, and dashing
back, they formed a body-guard around him, and dragged his horse swiftly beyond the line of battle.

A yell of anger accompanied by a volley came from Graham's men that he had left in line, and
a dozen Confederate saddles were emptied; but their return fire was so deadly, and their numbers
were so overwhelming, that the officer next in command ordered retreat at a gallop. Hilland,
in his anguish, would not have left his friend had not his men grasped his rein and carried
him off almost by force. Meanwhile the darkness set in so rapidly that the pursuit soon slackened
and ceased.

During the remainder of the ride back to their camp, which was reached late at night, the ardent-natured
Hilland was almost demented. He wept, raved, and swore. He called himself an accursed coward,
that he had left the friend who had saved his life. His broken arm was as nothing to him, and
eventually the regimental surgeon had to administer strong opiates to quiet him.

When late the next day he awoke, it all came back to him with a dully heavy ache at heart.
Nothing could be done. His mind, now restored to its balance, recognized the fact. The brigade
was under orders to move to another point, and he was disabled and compelled to take a leave
of absence until fit for duty. The inexorable mechanism of military life moves on, without
the slightest regard for the individual; and Graham's act was only one of the many heroic deeds
of the war, some seen and more unnoted.

CHAPTER XXIII

AN EARLY DREAM FULFILLED

A few days later Grace welcomed her husband with a long, close embrace, but with streaming
eyes; while he bowed his head upon her shoulder and groaned in the bitterness of his spirit.

"Next to losing you, Grace," he said, "this is the heaviest blow I could receive; and to think
that he gave his life for me! How can I ever face Mrs. Mayburn?"

But his wife comforted him as only she knew how to soothe and bless; and Mrs. Mayburn saw that
he was as sincere a mourner as herself. Moreover they would not despair of Graham, for although
he had been seen to fall, he might only have been wounded and made a prisoner. Thus the bitterness
of their grief was mitigated by hope.

This hope was fulfilled in a most unexpected way, by a cheerful letter from Graham himself;
and the explanation of this fact requires that the story should return to him.

He thought that the sentence of death which he had passed upon himself had been carried into
effect. He had felt himself falling, and then there had been sudden darkness. Like a dim taper
flickering in the night, the spark of life began to kindle again. At first he was conscious
of but one truth-that he was not dead. Where he now was, in this world or some other, what
he now was, he did not know; but the essential ego, Alford Graham, had not ceased to exist.
The fact filled him with a dull, wondering awe. Memory slowly revived, and its last impression
was that he was to die and had died, and yet he was not dead.

As a man's characteristic traits will first assert themselves, he lay still and feebly tried
to comprehend it all. Suddenly a strange, horrid sound smote upon his senses and froze his
blood with dread. It must be life after death, for only his mind appeared to have any existence.
He could not move. Again the unearthly sound, which could not be a human shriek, was repeated;
and by half-involuntary and desperate effort he started up and looked around. The scene at
first was obscure, confused, and awful. His eye could not explain it, and he instinctively
stretched out his hands; and through the sense of touch all that had happened came back to
his confused brain. He first felt of himself, passed his hand over his forehead, his body,
his limbs: he certainly was in the flesh, and that to his awakening intelligence meant much,
since it accorded with his belief that life and the body were inseparable. Then he felt around
him in the darkness, and his hands touched the grassy field. This fact righted him speedily.
As in the old fable, when he touched the earth he was strong. He next noted that his head rested
on a smooth rock that rose but little above the plain, and that he must have fallen upon it.
He sat up and looked around; and as the brain gradually resumed its action after its terrible
shock, the situation became intelligible. The awful sounds that he had heard came from a wounded
horse that was struggling feebly in the light of the rising moon, now in her last quarter.
He was upon the scene of last evening's conflict, and the obscure objects that lay about him
were the bodies of the dead. Yes, there before him were the two men he had killed; and their
presence brought such a strong sense of repugnance and horror that he sprang to his feet and
recoiled away.

He looked around. There was not a living object in sight except the dying horse. The night
wind moaned about him, and soughed and sighed as if it were a living creature mourning over
the scene.

It became clear to him that he had been left as dead. Yes, and he had been robbed, too; for
he shivered, and found that his coat and vest were gone, also his hat, his money, his watch,
and his boots. He walked unsteadily to the little bridge, and where he had left his line of
faithful men, all was dark and silent. With a great throb of joy he remembered that Hilland
must have sped across that bridge to safety, while he had expiated his evil thought.

He then returned and circled around the place. He was evidently alone; but the surmise occurred
to him that the Confederates would return in the morning to bury their dead, and if he would
escape he must act promptly. And yet he could not travel in his present condition. He must
at least have hat, coat, and boots. His only resource was to take them from the dead; but the
thought of doing so was horrible to him. Reason about it as he might, he drew near their silent
forms with an uncontrollable repugnance. He almost gave up his purpose, and took a few hasty
steps away, but a thorn pierced his foot and taught him his folly. Then his imperious will
asserted itself, and with an imprecation on his weakness he returned to the nearest silent
form, and took from it a limp felt hat, a coat, and a pair of boots, all much the worse for
wear; and having arrayed himself in these, started on the trail of the Union force.

He had not gone over a mile when, on surmounting an eminence, he saw by dying fires in a grove
beneath him that he was near the bivouac of a body of soldiers. He hardly hoped they could
be a detachment of Union men; and yet the thought that it was possible led him to approach
stealthily within earshot. At last he heard one patrol speak to another in unmistakable Southern
accent, and he found that the enemy was in his path.

Silently as a ghost he stole away, and sought to make a wide detour to the left, but soon lost
himself hopelessly in a thick wood. At last, wearied beyond mortal endurance, he crawled into
what seemed the obscurest place he could find, and lay down and slept.

The sun was above the horizon when he awoke, stiff, sore, and hungry, but refreshed, rested.
A red squirrel was barking at him derisively from a bough near, but no other evidences of life
were to be seen. Sitting up, he tried to collect his thoughts and decide upon his course. It
at once occurred to him that he would be missed, and that pursuit might be made with hounds.
At once he sprang to his feet and made his way toward a valley, which he hoped would be drained
by a running stream. The welcome sound of water soon guided him, and pushing through the underbrush
he drank long and deeply, bathed the ugly bruise on his head, and then waded up the current.

He had not gone much over half a mile before he saw through an opening a negro gazing wonderingly
at him. "Come here, my good fellow," he cried.

The man approached slowly, cautiously.

"I won't hurt you," Graham resumed; "indeed you can see that I'm in your power. Won't you help me?"

"Dunno, mas'r," was the non-committal reply.

"Are you in favor of Lincoln's men or the Confederates?" "Dunno, mas'r. It 'pends."

"It depends upon what?"

"On whedder you'se a Linkum man or 'Federate."

"Well, then, here's the truth. The Lincoln men are your best friends, if you've sense enough
to know it; and I'm one of them. I was in the fight off there yesterday, and am trying to escape."

"Oh golly! I'se sense enough;" and the genial gleam of the man's ivory was an omen of good
to Graham. "But," queried the negro, "how you wear 'Federate coat and hat?"

"Because I was left for dead, and mine were stolen. I had to wear something. The Confederates
don't wear blue trousers like these."

"Dat's so; an' I knows yer by yer talk and look. I knows a 'Federate well as I does a coon.
But dese yere's mighty ticklish times; an' a nigger hab no show ef he's foun' meddlin'. What's
yer gwine ter do?"

"Perhaps you can advise me. I'm afraid they'll put hounds on my trail"

"Dat dey will, if dey misses yer."

"Well, that's the reason I'm here in the stream. But I can't keep this up long. I'm tired and
hungry. I've heard that you people befriended Lincoln's men. We are going to win, and now's
the time for you to make friends with those who will soon own this country."

"Ob corse, you'se a-gwine ter win. Linkum is de Moses we're all a- lookin' ter. At all our
meetin's we'se a-prayin' for him and to him. He's de Lord's right han' to lead we alls out
ob bondage."

"Well, I swear to you I'm one of his men."

"I knows you is, and I'se a-gwine to help you, houn's or no houn's. Keep up de run a right
smart ways, and you'se'll come ter a big flat stun'. Stan' dar in de water, an I'll be dar
wid help." And the man disappeared in a long swinging run,

Graham did as he was directed, and finally reached a flat rock, from which through the thick
bordering growth something like a path led away. He waited until his patience was wellnigh
exhausted, and then heard far back upon his trail the faint bay of a hound. He was about to
push his way on up the stream, when there was a sound of hasty steps, and his late acquaintance
with another stalwart fellow appeared.

"Dere's no time ter lose, mas'r. Stan' whar you is," and in a moment he splashed in beside
him. "Now get on my back. Jake dar will spell me when I wants him; fer yer feet mustn't touch
de groun';" and away they went up the obscure path.

This was a familiar mode of locomotion to Graham, for he had been carried thus by the hour
over the mountain passes of Asia. They had not gone far before they met two or three colored
women with a basket of clothes.

"Dat's right," said Graham's conveyance; "wash away right smart, and dunno nothin'. Yer see,"
he continued, "dis yer is Sunday, and we'se not in de fields, an de women folks can help us;"
and Graham though that the old superstition of a Sabbath has served him well for once.

They soon left the path and entered some very heavy timber, through an opening of which he
saw the negro quarters and plantation dwellings in the distance.

At last they stopped before an immense tree. Some brush was pushed aside, revealing an aperture
through which Graham was directed to crawl, and he found himself within a heart of oak.

"Dar's room enough in dar ter sit down," said his sable friend. "An' you'se 'll find a jug
ob milk an' a pone ob corn meal. Luck ter yer. Don't git lonesome like and come out. We'se
a-gwine ter look ater yer;" and the opening was hidden by brush again, and Graham was left alone.

From a small aperture above his head a pencil of sunlight traversed the gloom, to which his
eyes soon grew accustomed, and he saw a rude seat and the food mentioned. By extending his
feet slightly through the opening by which he had entered, he found the seat really comfortable;
and the coarse fare was ambrosial to his ravenous appetite. Indeed, he began to enjoy the adventure.
His place of concealment was so unexpected and ingenious that it gave him a sense of security.
He had ever had a great love for trees, and now it seemed as if one had opened its very heart
to hide him.

Then his hosts and defenders interested him exceedingly. By reason of residence in New England
and his life abroad, he was not familiar with the negro, especially his Southern type. Their
innocent guile and preposterous religious belief amused him. He both smiled and wondered at
their faith in "Linkum," whom at that time he regarded as a long headed, uncouth Western politician,
who had done not a little mischief of interfering with the army.

"It is ever so with all kinds of superstition and sentimental belief," he soliloquized. "Some
conception of the mind is embodied, or some object is idealized and magnified until the original
is lost sight of, and men come to worship a mere fancy of their own. Then some mind, stronger
and more imaginative than the average, gives shape and form to this confused image; and so
there grows in time a belief, a theology, or rather a mythology. To think that this Lincoln,
whom I've seen in attitudes anything but divine, and telling broad, coarse stories--to think
that he should be a demigod, antitype of the venerated Hebrew! In truth it leads one to suspect,
according to analogy, that Moses was a money-making Jew, and his effort to lead his people
to Palestine an extensive land speculation."

Graham lived to see the day when he acknowledged that the poor negroes of the most remote plantations
had a truer conception of the grand proportions of Lincoln's character at that time than the
majority of his most cultivated countrymen.

His abstract speculations were speedily brought to a close by the nearer baying of hounds as
they surmounted an eminence over which lay his trail. On came the hunt, with its echoes rising
and falling with the wind or the inequalities of the ground, until it burst deep- mouthed and
hoarse over the brow of the hill that sloped to the stream. Then there were confused sounds,
both of the dogs and of men's voices, which gradually approached until there was a pause, caused
undoubtedly by a colloquy with Aunt Sheba and her associate washerwomen. It did not last very
long; and then, to Graham's dismay, the threatening sounds were renewed, and seemed coming
directly toward him. He soon gave up all hope, and felt that he had merely to congratulate
himself that, from the nature of his hiding-place, he could not be torn by the dogs, when he
perceived that the hunt was coming no nearer--in brief, that it was passing. He then understood
that his refuge must be near the bed of the stream, from which his pursuers were seeking on
either side his diverging trail. This fact relieved him at once, and quietly he listened to
the sounds, dying away as they had come.

As the sun rose higher the ray of light sloped downward until it disappeared; and in the profound
gloom and quiet he fell asleep. He was awaked by hearing a voice call, "Mas'r."

Looking down, he saw that the brush had been removed, and that the opening was partially obstructed
by a goblin-like head with little horns rising all over it.

"Mas'r," said the apparition, "Aunt Sheba sends you dis, and sez de Lord be wid you."

"Thanks for Aunt Sheba, and you, too, whatever you are," cried Graham; and to gratify his curiosity
he sprang down on his knees and peered out in time to see a little negro girl replacing the
brush, while what he had mistaken for horns was evidently the child's manner of wearing her
hair. He then gave his attention to the material portion of Aunt Sheba's offering, and found
a rude sort of platter, or low basket, made of corn husks, and in this another jug of milk,
corn bread, and a delicious broiled chicken done to that turn of perfection of which only the
colored aunties of the South are capable.

"Well!" ejaculated Graham. "From this day I'm an abolitionist, a Republican of the blackest
dye." A little later he added, "Any race that can produce a woman capable of such cookery as
this has a future before it."

Indeed, the whole affair was taking such an agreeable turn that he was inclined to be jocular.

After another long sleep in the afternoon, he was much refreshed, and eager to rejoin his command.
But Issachar, or Iss, as his associates called him, the negro who had befriended him in the
first instance, came and explained that the whole country was full of Confederates; and that
it might be several days before it would be safe to seek the Union lines.

"We'se all lookin' out fer yer, mas'r," he continued; "you won't want for nothin'. An' we won't
kep yer in dis woodchuck hole arter nine ob de ev'nin'. Don't try ter come out. I'm lookin'
t'oder way while I'se a-talkin. Mean niggers an' 'Federates may be spyin' aroun'. But I reckon
not; I'se laid in de woods all day, a-watchin'.

"Now I tell yer what 'tis, mas'r, I'se made up my mine to put out ob heah. I'se gwine ter jine
de Linkum men fust chance I gits. An' if yer'll wait an' trus' me, I'll take yer slick and
clean; fer I know dis yer country and ebery hole whar ter hide well as a fox. If I gits safe
ter de Linkum folks, yer'll say a good word fer Iss, I reckon."

"Indeed, I will. If you wish, I'll take you into my own service, and pay you good wages."

"Done, by golly; and when dey cotch us, dey'll cotch a weasel asleep."

"But haven't you a wife and children?"

"Oh, yah. I'se got a wife, an' I'se got a lot ob chillen somewhar in de 'Fed'racy; but I'll
come wid you uns bime by, an' gedder up all I can fine. I'se 'll come 'long in de shank ob
de ev'nin', mas'r, and guv yer a shakedown in my cabin, an' I'll watch while yer sleeps. Den
I'll bring yer back heah befo' light in de mawnin'."

The presence of Confederate forces required these precautions for several days, and Iss won
Graham's whole heart by his unwearied patience and vigilance. But the young man soon prevailed
on the faithful fellow to sleep nights while he watched; for after the long inaction of the
day he was almost wild for exercise. Cautious Iss would have been nearly crazed with anxiety
had he known of the reconnaissances in which his charge indulged while he slept. Graham succeeded
in making himself fully master of the disposition of the Rebel forces in the vicinity, and
eventually learned that the greater part of them had been withdrawn. When he had communicated
this intelligence to Iss, they prepared to start for the Union lines on the following night,
which proved dark and stormy.

Iss, prudent man, kept the secret of his flight from even his wife, and satisfied his marital
compunctions by chucking her under the chin and calling her "honey" once or twice while she
got supper for him. At eight in the evening he summoned Graham from his hiding-place, and led
him, with almost the unerring instinct of some wild creature of the night, due northeast, the
direction in which the Union forces were said to be at that time. It was a long, desolate tramp,
and the dawn found them drenched and weary. But the glorious sun rose warm and bright, and
in a hidden glade of the forest they dried their clothes, rested, and refreshed themselves.
After a long sleep in a dense thicket they were ready to resume their journey at nightfall.
Iss proved an invaluable guide, for, concealing Graham, he would steal away, communicate with
the negroes, and bring fresh provisions.

On the second night he learned that there was a Union force not very far distant to the north
of their line of march. Graham had good cause to wonder at the sort of freemasonry that existed
among the negroes, and the facility with which they obtained and transmitted secret intelligence.
Still more had he reason to bless their almost universal fidelity to the Union cause.

Another negro joined them as guide, and in the gray of the morning they approached the Union
pickets. Graham deemed it wise to wait till they could advance openly and boldly; and by nine
o'clock he was received with acclamations by his own regiment as one risen from the dead.

After congratulations and brief explanations were over, his first task was to despatch the
two brief letters mentioned, to his aunt and Hilland, in time to catch the daily mail that
left their advanced position. Then he saw his brigade commander, and made it clear to him that
with a force of about two regiments he could strike a heavy blow against the Confederates whom
he had been reconnoitring; and he offered to act as guide. His proposition was accepted, and
the attacking force started that very night. By forced marches they succeeded in surprising
the Confederate encampment and in capturing a large number of prisoners. Iss also surprised
his wife and Aunt Sheba even more profoundly, and before their exclamations ceased he had bundled
them and their meagre belongings into a mule cart, with such of the "chillen" as had been left
to him, and was following triumphantly in the wake of the victorious Union column; and not
a few of their sable companions kept them company.

The whole affair was regarded as one of the most brilliant episodes of the campaign and Graham
received much credit, not only in the official reports, but in the press. Indeed, the latter,
although with no aid from the chief actor, obtained an outline of the whole story, from the
rescue of his friend to his guidance of the successful expedition, and it was repeated with
many variations and exaggerations. He cared little for these brief echoes of fame; but the
letters of his aunt, Hilland, and even the old major, were valued indeed, while a note from
the grateful wife became his treasure of treasures.

They had returned some time before to the St. John cottage, and she had at last written him
a letter "straight from her heart," on the quaint secretary in the library, as he had dreamed
possible on the first evening of their acquaintance.

CHAPTER XXIV

UNCHRONICLED CONFLICTS

Graham's friends were eager that he should obtain leave of absence, but he said, "No, not until
some time in the winter."

His aunt understood him sufficiently well not to urge the matter, and it may be added that
Grace did also.

Hilland's arm healed rapidly, and happy as he was in his home life at the cottage he soon began
to chafe under inaction. Before very long it became evident that the major had not wholly outlived
his influence at Washington, for there came an order assigning Major Hilland to duty in that
city; and thither, accompanied by Grace and her father, he soon repaired. The arrangement proved
very agreeable to Hilland during the period when his regiment could engage in little service
beyond that of dreary picket duty. He could make his labors far more useful to the government
in the city, and could also enjoy domestic life with his idolized wife. Mrs. Mayburn promised
to join them after the holidays, and the reason for her delay was soon made evident.

One chilly, stormy evening, when nature was in a most uncomfortable mood, a card was brought
to the door of Hilland's rooms at their inn just as he, with his wife and the major, was sitting
down to one of those exquisite little dinners which only Grace knew how to order. Hilland glanced
at the card, and gave such a shout that the waiter nearly fell over backward.

"Where is the gentleman? Take me to him on the double-quick. It's Graham. Hurrah! I'll order
another dinner!" and he vanished, chasing the man downstairs and into the waiting-room, as
if he were a detachment of Confederate cavalry. The decorous people in the hotel parlor were
astounded as Hilland nearly ran over the breathless waiter at the door, dashed in like a whirlwind,
and carried off his friend, laughing, chaffing, and embracing him all the way up the stairs.
It was the old, wild exuberancy of his college days, only intensified by the deepest and most
grateful emotion.

Grace stood within her door blushing, smiling, and with tears of feeling in her lovely eyes.

"Here he is," cried Hilland--"the very god of war. Give him his reward, Grace--a kiss that
he will feel to the soles of his boots."

But she needed no prompting, for instead of taking Graham's proffered hand, she put her hands
on his shoulders and kissed him again and again, exclaiming, "You saved Warren's life; you
virtually gave yours for his; and in saving him you saved me. May God bless you every hour
you live!"

"Grace," he said, gravely and gently, looking down into her swimming eyes and retaining her
hands in a strong, warm clasp, "I am repaid a thousand-fold. I think this is the happiest moment
of my life;" and then he turned to the major, who was scarcely less demonstrative in his way
than Hilland had been.

"By Jove!" cried the veteran, "the war is going to be the making of you young fellows. Why,
Graham, you no more look like the young man that played whist with me years since than I do.
You have grown broad- shouldered and distingue, and you have the true military air in spite
of that quiet civilian's dress."

"Oh, I shall always be comparatively insignificant," replied Graham, laughing. "Wait till Hilland
wears the stars, as he surely will, and then you'll see a soldier."

"We see far more than a soldier in you, Alford," said Grace, earnestly. "Your men told Warren
of your almost miraculous leap across the ditch; and Warren has again and again described your
appearance as you rushed by him on his pursuers. Oh, I've seen the whole thing in my dreams
so often!"

"Yes, Graham; you looked like one possessed. You reminded me of the few occasions when, in
old college days, you got into a fury."

A frown as black as night lowered on Graham's brow, for they were recalling the most hateful
memory of his life--a thought for which he felt he ought to die; but it passed almost instantly,
and in the most prosaic tones he said, "Good friends, I'm hungry. I've splashed through Virginia
mud twelve mortal hours to-day. Grace, be prepared for such havoc as only a cavalryman can
make. We don't get such fare as this at the front."

She, with the pretty housewifely bustle which he had admired years ago, rang the bell and made
preparations for a feast.

"Every fatted calf in Washington should be killed for you," she cried-- "prodigal that you
are, but only in brave deeds. Where's Iss? I want to see and feast him also."

"I left him well provided for in the lower regions, and astounding the 'cullud bredren' with
stories which only the African can swallow. He shall come up by and by, for I have my final
orders to give. He leads my horse back to the regiment in the morning, and takes care of him
in my absence. I hope to spend a month with aunt."

"And how much time with us?" asked Hilland, eagerly.

"This evening."

"Now, Graham, I protest--"

"Now, Hilland, I'm ravenous, and here's a dinner fit for the Great Mogul."

"Oh, I know you of old. When you employ a certain tone you intend to have your own way; but
it isn't fair."

"Don't take it to heart. I'll make another raid on you when I return, and then we shall soon
be at the front together again. Aunty's lonely, you know."

"Grace and I don't count, I suppose," said the major.

"I had a thousand questions to ask you;" and he looked so aggrieved that Graham compromised
and promised to spend the next day with him.

Then he gave an almost hilarious turn to the rest of the evening, and one would have thought
that he was in the high spirits natural to any young officer with a month's leave of absence.
He described the "woodchuck hole" which had been his hiding-place, sketched humorously the
portraits of Iss, Aunt Sheba, who was now his aunt's cook, and gave funny episodes of his midnight
prowlings while waiting for a chance to reach the Union lines. Grace noted how skilfully he
kept his own personality in the background unless he appeared in some absurd or comical light;
and she also noted that his eyes rested upon her less and less often, until at last, after
Iss had had his most flattering reception, he said good-night rather abruptly.

The next day he entertained the major in a way that was exceedingly gratifying and flattering
to the veteran. He brought some excellent maps, pointed out the various lines of march, the
positions of the opposing armies, and showed clearly what had been done and what might have
been. He next became the most patient and absorbed listener, as the old gentleman, by the aid
of the same maps, planned a campaign which during the coming year would have annihilated the
Confederacy. Grace, sitting near the window, might have imagined herself almost ignored. But
she interpreted him differently. She now had the key which explained his conduct, and more
than once tears came into her eyes.

Hilland returned early, having hastened through his duties, and was in superb spirits. They
spent an afternoon together which stood out in memory like a broad gleam of sunshine in after
years; and then Graham took his leave with messages from all to Mrs. Mayburn, who was to return
with him.

As they were parting, Grace hesitated a moment, and then stepping forward impulsively she took
Graham's hand in both of hers, and said impetuously: "You have seen how very, very happy we
all are. Do you think that I forget for a moment that I owe it to you?"

Graham's iron nerves gave way. His hand trembled. "Don't speak to me in that way," he murmured.
"Come, Hilland, or I shall miss the train;" and in a moment he was gone.

Mrs. Mayburn never forgot the weeks he spent with her. Sometimes she would look at him wonderingly,
and once she said: "Alford, it is hard for me to believe that you have passed through all that
you have. Day after day passes, and you seem perfectly content with my quiet, monotonous life.
You read to me my old favorite authors. You chaff me and Aunt Sheba about our little domestic
economies. Beyond a hasty run through the morning paper you scarcely look at the daily journals.
You are content with one vigorous walk each day. Indeed you seem to have settled down and adapted
yourself to my old woman's life for the rest of time. I thought you would be restless, urging
my earlier return to Washington, or seeking to abridge your leave, so that you might return
to the excitement of the camp."

"No, aunty dear, I am not restless. I have outlived and outgrown that phase of my life. You
will find that my pulse is as even as yours. Indeed I have a deep enjoyment of this profound
quiet of our house. I have fully accepted my lot, and now expect only those changes that come
from without and not from within. To be perfectly sincere with you, the feeling is growing
that this profound quietude that has fallen upon me may be the prelude to final rest. It's
right that I should accustom your mind to the possibilities of every day in our coming campaign,
which I well foresee will be terribly severe. At first our generals did not know how to use
cavalry, and beyond escort and picket duty little was asked of it. Now all this is changed.
Cavalry has its part in every pitched battle, and in the intervals it has many severe conflicts
of its own. Daring, ambitious leaders are coming to the front, and the year will be one of
great and hazardous activity. My chief regret is that Hilland's wound did not disable him wholly
from further service in the field. Still he will come out all right. He always has and ever
will. There are hidden laws that control and shape our lives. It seems to me that you were
predestined to be just what you are. Your life is rounded out and symmetrical according to
its own law. The same is true of Hilland and of myself thus far. The rudiments of what we are
to-day were clearly apparent when we were boys. He is the same ardent, jolly, whole-souled
fellow that clapped me on the back after leaving the class-room. Everybody liked him then,
everything favored him. Often when he had not looked at a lesson he would make a superb recitation.
I was moody and introspective; so I am to-day. Even the unforeseen events of life league together
to develop one's characteristics. The conditions of his life today are in harmony with all
that has been; the same is true of mine, with the strange exception that I have found a home
and a dear staunch friend in one who I supposed would ever be a stranger. See how true my theory
is of Grace and her father. Her blithesome girlhood has developed into the happiest wifehood.
Her brow is as smooth as ever, and her eyes as bright. They have only gained in depth and tenderness
as the woman has taken the place of the girl. Her form has only developed into lovelier proportions,
and her character into a more exquisite symmetry. She has been one continuous growth according
to the laws of her being; and so it will be to the end. She will be just as beautiful and lovable
in old age as now; for nature, in a genial mood, infused into her no discordant, disfiguring
elements. The major also is completing his life in consonance with all that has gone before."

"Alford, you are more of a fatalist than a materialist. In my heart I feel, I know, you are
wrong. What you say seems so plausible as to be true; but my very soul revolts at it all. There
is a deep undertone of sadness in your words, and they point to a possibility that would imbitter
every moment of the remnant of my life. Suppose you should fall, what remedy would there be
for me? Oh, in anguish I have learned what life would become then. I am a materialist like
yourself, although all the clergymen in town would say I was orthodox. From earliest recollection
mere things and certain people have been everything to me; and now you are everything, and
yet at this hour the bullet may be molded which will strike you down. Grace, with her rich,
beautiful life, is in equal danger. Hilland will go into the field and will expose himself
as recklessly as yourself. I have no faith in your obscure laws. Thousands were killed in the
last campaign, thousands are dying in hospitals this moment, and all this means thousands of
broken hearts, unless they are sustained by something I have not. This world is all very well
when all is well, but it can so easily become an accursed world!" The old lady spoke with a
strange bitterness, revealing the profound disquietude that existed under the serene amenities
of her age and her methodical life.

Graham sought to give a lighter tone to their talk and said: "Oh, well, aunty, perhaps we are
darkening the sun with our own shadows. We must take life as we find it. There is no help for
that. You have done so practically. With your strong good sense you could not do otherwise.
The trouble is that you are haunted by old-time New England beliefs that, from your ancestry,
have become infused into your very blood. You can't help them any more than other inherited
infirmities which may have afflicted your grandfather. Let us speak of something else. Ah,
here is a welcome diversion--the daily paper--and I'll read it through to you, and we'll gain
another hint as to the drift of this great tide of events."

The old lady shook her head sadly; and the fact that she watched the young man with hungry,
wistful eyes, often blinded with tears, proved that neither state nor military policy was uppermost
in her mind.

CHAPTER XXV

A PRESENTIMENT

