A third treatise was printed at Edinburgh, in the year 1671. The title of it is, “Fellowship
with God, being twenty eight Sermons on the First Epistle of John, Chap. 1st, and Chap. 2d,
Verses 1, 2, 3.” In this book, we have the true ground and foundation of attaining the spiritual
way of entertaining fellowship with the Father and the Son, and the blessed condition of such
as attain to it, most succinctly and distinctly explained. This book was revised and published
by one A. S. who, in his preface to the reader, styles himself, his servant in the gospel of
our dearest Lord and Saviour. I need give no other commendation of it, than that summary eulogium
which that minister has left us. “In a word, (says he,) here are to be found, convictions for
atheists, piercing rebukes to the profane, clear instructions to the ignorant, milk to the
babes in Christ, strong meat for the strong, strength to the weak, quickening and reviving
for such as faint in the way, restoratives for such as are in a decay, reclamations and loud
oyesses after backsliders to recall them, breasts of consolation for Zion’s mourners. And to
add no more, here are most excellent counsels and directions to serious seekers of fellowship
with God, to guide them in their way, and help them forward to the attainment of that fulness
of joy which is to be had in fellowship with the Father and the Son.”

The last treatise that has been printed is, “Heart Humiliation, or Miscellany Sermons, preached
upon some choice texts at several solemn occasions.” These likewise were revised and published
by the above A. S. in the year [1676]. Mr. Binning considering the great confusions and lamentable
divisions that prevailed in the church in his day, and the abounding immorality and profaneness
of the age, was deeply weighed therewith. His righteous soul was so vexed and grieved on these
accounts, that he vented his mind in a most pathetic and moving manner, when the days of public
humiliation and fasting were observed. With respect to the many fasts then appointed, and the
few good effects they had, he says in his sermon on Isa. lxiv. 7—“There is none that calleth
upon thy name, that stirreth up himself to take hold of thee,”—“The fasting days of Scotland
will be numbered in the roll of the greatest provocations, because there is no real and spiritual
conviction of sin among us, custom now hath taken away the solemnity, and there remaineth nothing
but the very name.”(126) And in this same sermon, he says, “Doth any of you pray more in private
than ye used? Or what edge is upon your prayers? Alas! the Lord will get good leave to go from
us, it feareth me we would give Christ a testimonial to go over seas. Hold him, hold him! Nay
the multitude would be gladly quit of him,—they cannot abide his yoke, his work is a burden,
his word is a torment, his discipline is bands and cords, and what heart can ye have to keep
Christ? What violence can ye offer to him to hold him still? All your entreaties may be fair
compliments, but they would never rend his garment.”(127) There are still several manuscripts
of Mr. Binning’s carefully preserved, which are in nothing inferior to any of his printed works.
There is a valuable Treatise upon Christian Love, consisting of several sheets writ in a very
small character,—it is divided into chapters, and several sermons upon very edifying subjects,
useful and profitable for our times,—which are designed to be printed in a separate volume,
which every body may easily discover from the style and genius of the author to be his genuine
writings, his manner of thinking and writing being a talent so peculiar to himself, that it
scarcely can be imitated by any other person.

Had it pleased the Almighty to have spared so valuable a life for some time longer, he would
have vindicated divinity from the many fruitless questions, unintelligible terms, empty notions,
and perplexed subtilties, wherewith it had been corrupted for a long time by the schoolmen.
As he was excellently fitted for this, so it was much upon his heart to have reduced divinity
to that native simplicity, which had been lost in most parts of the world. A good specimen
of his ability this way he hath given us in his catechism, and so, though he lived but a short
time, he yet lived long enough to raise the greatest expectation that hath been known of any
of his standing.

Mr. M’Ward assures us, That if Dr. Strang’s dictates De Voluntate Dei circa peccata(128) had
been published before Mr. Binning’s death, Mr. Binning had an examen of them ready for the
press. But this treasure, to the great loss of the learned world, cannot now be found. As for
his philosophical writings which he taught in the University, I am assured that his course
of philosophy is in the hands of a learned gentleman in this city, who gives them an high commendation.

There is a book published under his name in 4to, consisting of fifty-one pages, with this title,
“An Useful Case of Conscience, learnedly and accurately discussed and resolved, concerning
associations and confederacies with idolaters,  infidels, heretics, malignants or any other
known enemies of truth and godliness.” But it is very much questioned by the most intelligent,
if that book was really Mr.  Binning’s. The publisher does indeed put Mr. Binning’s name to
the title page, but conceals his own, and he brings no manner of voucher, showing that Mr.
Binning was the author, but sends it abroad into the world in a clandestine manner.  Neither
the name of the printer, nor of the place where it was printed is mentioned in the title page.(129)
It was printed in the year 1693, when the first General Assembly of this church after the Revolution,
which consisted of both Public Resolutioners and Protesters, had agreed to bury for ever all
their differences about the Public Resolutions, concerning the question of employing malignants
in the army, that was raised against the kingdom of England. It seems that he dreaded the frowns
and censure of those worthy and faithful ministers of Jesus Christ, who had been a long time
in the fire of persecution. But if we further consider, that our late glorious deliverer, King
William, was in the year 1693 engaged in a defensive war with the Emperor of Germany and the
King of Spain, against Louis XIV., the bloody tyrant of France and terror of Europe, who aimed
at the universal monarchy thereof, and to overturn the happy revolution, the blessed benefits
of which we have enjoyed ever since, it is evident, that the publisher was afraid of the resentment
of the civil powers, especially when the spreading of that pamphlet might have an unhappy tendency
to alienate the affections of his subjects, when he was carrying on that just and necessary
war, for the preservation of our civil and religious liberties, to which we had been but lately
restored. Nay, it is said, that when this pamphlet was spreading in the army in Flanders, it
was like to have a bad influence on the soldiers, which made King William take an effectual
method to suppress it. And lastly, Mr. Binning was of a pacific temper, and his sentiments
with respect to public differences were healing, which are evident from the accounts already
given of his printed books. And to show that he was a promoter of brotherly love, and of the
peace of the church, I shall set down a few passages taken from his Treatise of Christian Love,
which are as bright and strong for recommending the same, as any that I have met with in the
writings of any of our divines, so that I can’t allow myself to think he could be the author
thereof. In chapter 2d of that Treatise, he says, “There is a greater moment and weight of
Christianity in charity, than in the most part of those things for which Christians bite and
devour one another. It is the fundamental law of the gospel, to which all positive precepts
and ordinances should stoop. Unity in judgment is very needful for the well being of Christians.
But Christ’s last words persuade this, that unity in affection is more essential and fundamental.
This is the badge he left to his disciples. If we cast away this upon every different apprehension
of mind, we disown our Master, and disclaim his token and badge.”(130) He goes on in the same
strain in the following paragraph—“The apostle Paul puts a high note of commendation upon charity,
when he styles it the bond of perfection. I am sure it hath not so high a place in the minds
and practice of Christians now, as it hath in the roll of the parts and members of the new
man here set down. Here it is above all. With us it is below all, even below every apprehension
of doubtful truths. An agreement in the conception of any poor petty controversial matter of
the times, is made the badge of Christianity, and set in an eminent place above all.”(131)
And in the same chapter he adds, “This is the sum of all, to worship God in faith and purity,
and to love one another. And, whatsoever debates and questions tend to the breach of this bond,
and have no eminent and remarkable advantage in them, suppose they be conceived to be about
matters of conscience, yet the entertaining and prosecuting of them to the prejudice of this,
is a manifest violence offered to the law of God, which is the rule of conscience. It is a
perverting of scripture and conscience to a wrong end. I say then, that charity and Christian
love should be the moderatrix of all our actions towards men. From thence they should proceed,
and according to this rule be formed. I am persuaded if this rule were followed, the present
differences in judgment of godly men, about such matters as minister mere questions, would
soon be buried in the gulf of Christian affection.”(132) I shall mention only another in the
same chapter. “Is not charity more excellent than the knowledge and acknowledgment of some
present questionable matters about government, treaties, and such like, and far more than every
punctilio of them? But the apostle goes higher. Suppose a man could spend all his substance
upon the maintenance of such an opinion, and give his life for the defence of it, though in
itself it be commendable, yet if he want charity and love to his brethren, if he overstretch
that point of conscience to the breach of Christian affection and duties flowing from it, it
profits him nothing. Then certainly charity must rule our external actions, and have the predominant
hand in the use of all gifts, and in the venting of all opinions.”(133) And now, having given
a just character of this eminent minister of the gospel, a true account of his life, and some
slight remarks upon his writings, I shall no longer detain the reader from the perusal of those
treatises that are contained in this volume; from which you will know more of Mr. Binning,
than from all I and others have said in his just praise. I shall now conclude, by acquainting
the purchasers and readers of this volume, that I am allowed by the publishers to assure them,
that the rest of his practical manuscripts are revising for the press; and that with all expedition
they shall be printed; from which I am hopeful they shall receive as great satisfaction, as
from any of his pieces already published.

To The Reader

Christian Reader,—The holy and learned author of this little book, having outrun his years,
hastened to a maturity before the ordinary season, insomuch that ripe summer fruit was found
with him by the first of the spring, for before he had lived twenty five years complete, he
had got to be Philologus, Philosophus, Theologus eximius, whereof he gave suitable proofs,
by his labours, having first professed in philosophy three years, with high approbation, in
the university of Glasgow, and thence was translated to the ministry of the gospel in a congregation
adjacent, where he laboured in the work of the gospel near four years, leaving an epistle of
commendation upon the hearts of his hearers. But as few burning and shining lights have been
of long continuance here so he (after he had served his own generation by the will of God,
and many had rejoiced in his light for a season) was quickly transported to the land of promise,
in the 26th year of his age. He lived deservedly esteemed and beloved, and died much lamented
by all discerning Christians who knew him. And, indeed, the loss which the churches of Christ,
in these parts, sustained in his death was the greater upon a double account; first, that he
was a person fitted with dexterity to vindicate school divinity and practical theology from
the superfluity of vain and fruitless perplexing questions wherewith latter times have corrupted
both, and had it upon his spirit, in all his way to reduce(134) that native gospel simplicity,
which, in most parts of the world where literature is in esteem, and where the gospel is preached,
is almost exiled from the school and from the pulpit,—a specimen whereof the judicious reader
may find in this little treatise. Besides, he was a person of eminent moderation and sobriety
of spirit, (a rare grace in this generation,) whose heart was much drawn forth in the study
of healing-ways and condescensions of love among brethren, one who longed for the recovering
of the humanity of Christianity, which hath been well near lost in the bitter divisions of
these times, and the animosities which have followed thereupon.

That which gave the rise to the publishing of this part of his manuscripts, was partly the
longing of many who knew him after some fruit of his labours for the use of the church, and
partly the exceeding great usefulness of the treatise, wherein, I am bold to say, that some
fundamentals of the Christian religion, and great mysteries of faith, are handled with the
greatest gospel simplicity and most dexterous plainness and are brought down to the meanest
capacity and vulgar understanding, with abundant evidence of a great height and reach of useful
knowledge in the author, who, had he lived to have perfected the explication of the grounds
of religion in this manner—as he intended, in his opening the catechism unto his particular
congregation—he had been, upon this single account, famous in the churches of Christ. But now,
by this imperfect opus posthumum, thou art left to judge ex ungue leonem.

The author’s method was his peculiar gift, who, being no stranger to the rules of art, knew
well how to make his method subserve the matter which he handled; for, though he tell not always
that his discourse hath so many parts, thou mayest not think it wants method, it being maximum
artis celare artem. That the same Spirit which enabled him to conceive, and communicate to
others, these sweet mysteries of salvation, may help thee with profit to read and peruse them,
is the desire of him who is,

Thine in the service of the Gospel, PATRICK GILLESPIE

                                Lecture I.

God’s Glory the Chief End of Man’s Being

    Rom. xi. 36.—“Of him and through him, and to him, are all things,
    to whom be glory for ever.” And 1 Cor. x. 31—“Whatsoever ye do, do
    all to the glory of God.”

All that men have to know, may be comprised under these two heads,—What their end is, and What
is the right way to attain to that end? And all that we have to do, is by any means to seek
to compass that end. These are the two cardinal points of a man’s knowledge and exercise. Quo
et qua eundum est,—Whither to go, and what way to go. If there be a mistake in any of these
fundamentals, all is wrong. All arts and sciences have their principles and grounds that must
be presupposed to all solid knowledge and right practice, so hath the true religion some fundamental
principals which must be laid to heart and imprinted into the soul, or there can be no superstructure
of true and saving knowledge and no practice in Christianity that can lead to a blessed end.
But as the principles are not many, but a few common and easy grounds, from which all the conclusions
of art are reduced, so the principles of true religion are few and plain; they need neither
burden your memory, nor confound your understanding. That which may save you “is nigh thee,”
says the apostle, (Rom. x. 8) “even in thy mouth.” It is neither too far above us, nor too
far below us. But, alas! your not considering of these common and few and easy grounds makes
them both burdensome to the memory, and dark to the understanding. As there is nothing so easy
but it becomes difficult of you do it against your will,—Nihil est tam facile, quin difficile
fiat, si invitus feceris,—so there is nothing so plain, so common, but it becomes dark and
hard if you do not indeed consider it and lay it to heart.

That which is, in the first place, to be considered is, Our end. As in all other arts and every
petty business, it hath the first place of consideration, so especially in the Christian religion.
It is the first cause of all human actions, and the first principle of all deliberate motions.
Except you would walk at random not knowing whither you go, or what you do, you must once establish
this and fix it in your intention—What is the great end and purpose wherefore I am created,
and sent into the world? It this be not either questioned, or not rightly constituted, you
cannot but spend your time, Vel nihil agendo, vel aliud agendo, vel male agendo, you must either
do nothing, or nothing to purpose, or, that which is worse, that which will undo you. It is
certainly the wrong establishing of this one thing that makes the most part of our motions
either altogether irregular, or unprofitable, or destructive and hurtful. Therefore, as this
point hath the first place in your catechism, so it ought to be first of all laid to heart,
and pondered as the one necessary thing. “One thing is needful,” says Christ, Luke x. 42, and
if any thing be in a  superlative degree needful, this is it. O that you would choose to consider
it, as the necessity and weight of it require!

We have read two scriptures, which speak to the ultimate and chief end of man, which is the
glorifying of God by all our actions and words and thoughts. In which we have these things
of importance: 1. That God’s glory is the end of our being. 2. That God’s glory should be the
end of our doing. And, 3. The ground of both these; because both being and doing are from him,
therefore they ought to be both for him. He is the first cause of both, and therefore he ought
to be the last end of both. “Of him, and through him, are all things;” and therefore all things
are also for him, and therefore all things should be done to him.

God is independent altogether, and self-sufficient. This is his royal prerogative, wherein
he infinitely transcends all created perfection. He is of himself, and for himself; from no
other, and for no other, “but of him, and for him, are all things.” He is the fountain-head;
you ought to follow the streams up to it, and then to rest, for you can go no farther. But
the creature, even the most perfect work, besides God, it hath these two ingredients of limitation
and imperfection in its bosom: it is from another, and for another. It hath its rise out of
the fountain of God’s immense power and goodness, and it must run towards that again, till
it empty all its faculties and excellencies into that same sea of goodness. Dependence is the
proper notion of a created being,—dependence upon that infinite independent Being, as the first
immediate cause, and the last immediate end. You see then that this principle is engraven in
the very nature of man. It is as certain and evident that man is made for God’s glory, and
for no other end, as that he is from God’s power, and from no other cause. Except men do violate
their own conscience, and put out their own eyes—as the Gentiles did, Rom. i. 19 &c.—“that
which may be known” of man’s chief end, “is manifest in them,” so that all men are “without
excuse.” As God’s being is independent, so that he cannot be expressed by any name more suitable
than such as he takes to himself, “I am that I am,”—importing a boundless, ineffable, absolute,
and transcendent being, beside which, no creature deserves so much as to have the name of being,
or to be made mention of in one day with his name, because his glorious light makes the poor
derived shadow of light in other creatures to disappear, and to evanish out of the world of
beings,—so it is the glorious perfection of his nature, that he doth “all things for himself,”
Prov. xvi. 4, for his own name; and his glory is as dear to him as himself. “I am the Lord,
that is my name, and [therefore] my glory will I not give to another,” Isa. xlii. 8; and xlviii.
11. This is no ambition. Indeed, for a man to seek his own glory, or search into it, “is not
glory,” (Prov. xxv. 27), but rather a man’s shame. Self-seeking in creatures is a monstrous
and incongruous thing; it is as absurd, and unbeseeming a creature, to seek its own glory,
as to attribute to itself its own being. Shall the thing formed say to the potter, Thou hast
not made me? That were ridiculous. And shall the thing formed say, ’Tis made for itself? That
were as ridiculous. Self-denial is the ornament and beauty of a creature, and therefore humility
is an ornament and clothing, 1 Pet. v. 5; and honour upholds the humble spirit, Prov. xxix.
23. But God’s self-seeking, and seeking of his own glory, is his eminent excellency. It is
indeed his glory, because he is, and there is none else; there is nothing, besides him, but
that which hath issued forth from his incomprehensible fulness. And therefore it is all the
reason of the world, that as he is the beginning, so he should be the end of all things, Rev.
i. 8. And there is the more reason of it, that his majesty’s seeking of his own glory is not
prejudicial to the creature’s good, but the very communication of his fulness goes along with
it: so that in glorifying himself, he is most beneficial to his own creatures. Poor creatures,
indigent at home, are yet proud of nothing, and endeavour, in seeking of themselves, to engross
all perfections into their own bosoms! Ambition and vainglory robs and spoils others’ excellencies
to clothe itself withal; and then boasts itself in these borrowed feathers! But our blessed
Lord is then doing most for our advantage when he does all for his own glory. He needs not
go abroad to seek perfection, but to manifest what he is in himself; he communicates of himself
to us. O blessed self-seeking that gave us a being and well-being; that makes no advantage
by it, but gives advantage! He hath the honour of all, but we have the profit of all. Therefore
David falls out a wondering, “Lord, what is man, that thou art mindful of him,” “and hast made
him to have dominion over the works of thy hands, and put all things under his feet!” Psal.
viii. 4, 6. The creature comes out in a direct line from God, as the beams from the body of
the sun; and it is directed towards the use and service of mankind, from whom all the excellency
and perfection that is in it should reflect towards God again. Man is both proximo et ultimo
for God. We are to return immediately to the fountain of our being; and thus our happiness
and well-being is perpetuated. There is nothing intervening between God and us that our use
and service and honour should be directed towards: but all the songs and perfections of the
creature, that are among the rest of the creatures, meet all in man as their centre, for this
purpose that he may return with them all to the glorious fountain from whence they issued.
Thus we stand next God, and in the middle between God and other creatures. This, I say, was
the condition of our creation. We had our being immediately from God, as the beginning of all;
and we were to have our happiness and well-being by returning immediately to God as the end
of all. But sin coming in between God and us, hath displaced us, so that we cannot now stand
next God, without the intervention of a Mediator; and we cannot stand between God and creatures,
to offer up their praises to him; but “there is one Mediator between God and man,” that offers
up both man’s praises and the creature’s songs which meet in man.

Now, seeing God hath made all things for himself, and especially man for his own glory, that
he may show forth in him the glory and excellence of his power, goodness, holiness, justice,
and mercy; it is not only most reasonable that man should do all things that he doth to the
glory of God, but it is even the beauty and perfection of a man,—the greatest accession that
can be to his being,—to glorify God by that being. We are not our own, therefore we ought not
to live to ourselves, but to God whose we are.

But you may ask, What is it to glorify God? Doth our goodness extend to him? Or is it an advantage
to the Almighty that we are righteous? No indeed! And herein is the vast difference between
God’s glorifying of us and sanctifying of us, and our glorifying and sanctifying of him. God
“calls things that are not,” and makes them to be: but we can do no more but call things that
are, and that far below what they are. God’s glorifying is creative,—ours only declarative.
He makes us such,—we do no more but declare him to be such. This then is the proper work that
man is created for, to be a witness of God’s glory, and to give testimony to the appearances
and out-breakings of it in the ways of power and justice and mercy and truth. Other creatures
are called to glorify God, but it is rather a proclamation to dull and senseless men, and a
provocation of them to their duty. As Christ said to the Pharisees, “If these children hold
their peace, the stones would cry out,” so may the Lord turn himself from stupid and senseless
man, to the stones and woods and seas and sun and moon, and exhort them to man’s duty, the
more to provoke and stir up our dulness, and to make us consider that it is a greater wonder
that man, whom God hath made so glorious, can so little express God’s glory, than if stupid
and senseless creatures should break out in singing and praising of his majesty. The creatures
are the books wherein the lines of the song of God’s praises are written; and man is made a
creature capable to read them, and to tune that song. They are appointed to bring in brick
to our hand; and God has fashioned us for this employment, to make such a building of it. We
are the mouth of the creation; but ere God want praises when our mouth is dumb, and our ears
deaf, God will open the mouths of asses, “of babes and sucklings,” and in them perfect praises,
Psal. viii. 1, 2. Epictetus said well, Si Luscinia essem, canerem ut Luscinia: cum autem homo
sim,  quid agam? Laudabo Deum, nec unquam cessabo—If I were a lark, I would sing as a lark,
but seeing I am a man, what should I do, but praise God without ceasing? It is as proper to
us to praise God, as for a bird to chaunt. All beasts have their own sounds and voices peculiar
to their own nature, this is the natural sound of a man. Now as you would think it monstrous
to hear a melodious bird croaking as a raven, so it is no less monstrous and degenerate to
hear the most part of the discourses of men savoring nothing of God. If we had known that innocent
estate of man, O how would we think he had fallen from heaven! We would imagine that we were
thrust down from heaven, where we heard the melodious songs of angels, into hell, to hear the
howlings of damned spirits. This then is that we are bound unto, by the bond of our creation,
this is our proper office and station God once set us into, when he assigned every creature
its own use and exercise. This was our portion, (and O the noblest of all, because nearest
the King’s own person!) to acknowledge in our hearts inwardly, and to expires in our words
and actions outwardly, what a One he is, according as he hath revealed himself in his word
and works. It is great honour to a creature to have the meanest employment in the court of
this great king, but, O, what is it to be set over all the King’s house, and over all his kingdom!
But, then, what is that in respect of this,—to be next to the King—to wait on his own person,
so to speak? Therefore the godly man is described as a waiting maid, or servant. Psal. cxxiii. 2.

Well then, without more discourse upon it, without multiplying of it into particular branches,
to glorify God is in our souls to conceive of him, and meditate on his name, till they receive
the impression and stamp of all the letters of his glorious name, and then to express this
in our words and actions in commending of him, and obeying of him.  Our souls should be as
wax to express the seal of his glorious attributes of justice, power, goodness, holiness, and
mercy, and as the water that receives the beams of the sun reflects them back again, so should
our spirits receive the sweet warming beams of his love and glorious excellency, and then reflect
them towards his Majesty, with the desires and affections of our souls. All our thoughts of
him, all our affections towards him, should have the stamp of singularity, such as may declare
there is none like him, none besides him, our love, our meditation, our acknowledgement should
have this character on their front,—“There is none besides thee; thou art, and none else.”
And then a soul should, by the cords of affection to him and admiration of him, be bound to
serve him. Creation puts on the obligation to glorify him in our body and spirits which are
his, but affection only puts that to exercise. All other bonds leave our natures at liberty,
but this constrains, 2 Cor. v. 14, it binds on all bonds, it ties on us all divine obligations.
Then a soul will glorify God, when love so unites it to God, and makes it one spirit with him,
that his glory becomes its honour, and becomes the principle of all our inward affections and
outward actions. It is not always possible to have and express particular thoughts of God and
his glory, in every action and meditation, but, for the most part it ought to be so. And if
souls were accustomed to meditation on God, it would become their very nature,—altera natura,—pleasant
and delightsome. However, if there be not always an express intention of God’s glory, yet there
ought to be kept always such a disposition and temper of spirit as it may be construed to proceed
from the intention of God’s glory, and then it remains in the seed and fruit, if not in itself.

Now when we are speaking of the great end and purpose of our creation, we call to mind our
lamentable and tragical fall from that blessed station we were constitute into. “All men have
sinned and come short of the glory of God,” Rom. iii. 23. His being in the world was for that
glory, and he is come short of that glory. O strange shortcoming! Short of all that he was
ordained for! What is he now meet for? For what purpose is that chief of the works of God now!
The salt, if it lose its saltness, is meet for nothing, for wherewithal shall it be seasoned?
Mark ix. 50. Even so, when man is rendered unfit for his proper end, he is meet for nothing,
but to be cast out and trode upon, he is like a withered branch that must be cast into the
fire, John xv. 6. Some things, if they fail in one use, they are good for another, but the
best things are not so,—Corruptio optimi pessima. As the Lord speaks to the house of Israel,
“Shall wood be taken of the vine tree to do any work?” Even so the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
Ezek. xv. 2-6. If it yield not wine, it is good for nothing. So, if man do not glorify God,—if
he fall from that,—he is meet for nothing, but to be cast into the fire of hell, and burnt
for ever, he is for no use in the creation, but to be fuel to the fire of the Lord’s indignation.

But behold! the goodness of the Lord and his kindness and love hath “appeared toward man. Not
by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us,” “through
Jesus Christ,” Tit. iii, 4, 5, 6. Our Lord Jesus, by whom all things were created, and for
whom, would not let this excellent workmanship perish so, therefore he goes about the work
of redemption,—a second creation more laborious and also more glorious than the first, that
so he might glorify his Father and our Father. Thus the breach is made up, thus the unsavoury
salt is seasoned, thus the withered branch is quickened again for that same fruit of praises
and glorifying of God. This is the end of his second creation, as it was of the first: “We
are his workmanship created to good works in Christ Jesus,” Eph. ii. 10. “This is the work
of God to believe on him whom he hath sent, to set to our seal, and to give our testimony to
all his attributes,” John vi. 29 and iii. 33. We are “bought with a price,” and therefore we
ought to glorify him with our souls and bodies. He made us with a soul, and that bound us,
but now he has made us again, and paid a price for us, and so we are twice bound not to be
our own but his, “and so to glorify him in our bodies and spirits,” 1 Cor. vi. ult. I beseech
you, gather your spirits, call them home about the business. We once came short of our end,—God’s
glory and our happiness, but know, that it is attainable again. We lost both, but both are
found in Christ. Awake then and stir up your spirits, else it shall be double condemnation—when
we have the offer of being restored to our former blessed condition—to love our present misery
better. Once establish this point within your souls, and therefore ask, Why came I hither?
To what purpose am I come into the world? If you do not ask it, what will you answer when he
asks you at your appearance before his tribunal? I beseech you, what will many of you say in
that day when the Master returns and takes an account of your dispensation? You are sent into
the world only for this business—to serve the Lord. Now what will many of you answer? If you
speak the truth (as then you must do it,—you cannot lie then!) you must say, “Lord, I spent
my time in serving my own lusts, I was taken up with other businesses, and had no leisure,
I was occupied in my calling,” &c. Even as if an ambassador of a king should return him this
account of his negociation. “I was busy at cards and dice, I spent my money, and did wear my
clothes.” Though you think your ploughing and borrowing and trafficking and reaping very necessary,
yet certainly these are but as trifles and toys to the main business. O what a dreadful account
will souls make! They come here for no purpose but to serve their bodies and senses, to be
slaves to all the creatures which were once put under man’s feet. Now man is under the feet
of all, and he has put himself so. If you were of these creatures, then you might be for them.
You seek them as if you were created for them, and not they for you, and you seek yourselves,
as if you were of yourselves, and had not your descent of God. Know, my beloved, that you were
not made for that purpose, nor yet redeemed either to serve yourselves, or other creatures,
but that other creatures might serve you, and ye serve God, Luke i. 74, 75. And this is really
the best way to serve ourselves and to save ourselves,—to serve God. Self seeking is self-destroying,
self denying is self-saving, soul saving. “He that seeketh to save his life shall lose it,
and he that loseth his life shall find it, and he that denies himself and follows me, is my
disciple.” Will ye once sit down in good earnest about this business? ’Tis lamentable to be
yet to begin to learn to live, when ye must die! Ye will be out of the world almost, ere ye
bethink yourself, Why came I into the world? Quindam tunc vivere incipiunt, cum desinendum
est, imo quidam ante vivere desierunt quam inciperent, this is of all most lamentable,—many
souls end their life, before they begin to live. For what is our life, but a living death,
while we do not live to God, and while we live not in relation to the great end of our life
and being,—the glory of God? It were better, says Christ, that such “had never been born.”
You who are created again in Jesus Christ, it most of all concerns you to ask, Why am I made?
And why am I redeemed? And to what purpose? It is certainly that ye may glorify your heavenly
Father, Mat. v. 16; Ps. lvi. 13. And you shall glorify him if you bring forth much fruit, and
continue in his love, John xv. 8, 9. And this you are chosen and ordained unto, ver. 16, and
therefore abide in him, that ye may bring forth fruit, ver. 4. And if you abide in him by believing,
you do indeed honour him, and he that honoureth the Son honoureth the Father, John v. 23. Here
is a compendious way to glorify God. Receive salvation of him freely, righteousness and eternal
life, this sets to a seal to God’s truth and grace and mercy, and whoso counts the Son worthy
to be a Saviour to them, and sets to their seal of approbation to him whom God the Father hath
sent and sealed, he also honours the Father, and then he that honoureth the Father, hath it
not for nothing, “for them that honour me I will honour,” 1 Sam ii. 30, says the Lord, and
“he that serves me, him will my Father honour,” John xii. 26. As the believing soul cares for
no other, and respects no other but God, so he respects no other but such a soul. “I will dwell
in the humble, and look unto the contrite,” there are mutual respects and honours. God is the
delight of such a soul, and such a soul is God’s delight. That soul sets God in a high place,
in a throne in its heart, and God sets that soul in a heavenly place with Christ, Eph. ii.
6, yea he comes down to sit with us and dwells in us, off his throne of majesty, Isa. lxvi.
1, 2, and lvii. 15.

                               Lecture II.

Union And Communion With God The End And Design Of The Gospel

    Psalm lxxiii. 24-28.—“Thou wilt guide me with thy counsel, &c.
    Whom have I in heaven but thee? &c. It is good for me to draw near
    to God.”—1 John i. 3. 21-23. “That they all may be one, as thou,
    Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us,
    &c.”

It is a matter of great consolation that God’s glory and our happiness are linked together,
so that whoever set his glory before them singly to aim at, they take the most compendious
and certain way to true blessedness. His glory is the ultimate end of man, and should be our
great and last scope. But our happiness—which consists in the enjoyment of God—is subordinate
to this, yet inseparable from it. The end of our creation is communion and fellowship with
God, therefore man was made with an immortal soul capable of it, and this is the greatest dignity
and eminency of man above the creatures. He hath not only impressed from God’s finger, in his
first moulding, some characters resembling God, in righteousness and holiness, but is created
with a capacity of receiving more of God by communion with him. Other creatures have already
all they will have,—all they can have,—of conformity to him, but man is made liker than all,
and is fitted and fashioned to aspire to more likeness and conformity, so that his soul may
shine more and more to the perfect day.

There was an union made already in his first moulding, and communion was to grow as a fragrant
and sweet fruit out of this blessed root. Union and similitude are the ground of fellowship
and communion. That union was gracious,—that communion would have been glorious, for grace
is the seed of glory. There was a twofold union between Adam and God,—an union of state, and
an union of nature, he was like God, and he was God’s friend. All the creatures had some likeness
to God, some engravings of his power and goodness and wisdom, but man is said to be made according
to God’s image, “Let us make man like unto us.” Other creatures had similitudinem vestiga,
but man had similitudinem faciet. Holiness and righteousness are God’s face,—the very excellency
and glory of all his attributes, and the Lord stamps the image of these upon man. Other attributes
are but like his back parts, and he leaves the resemblance of his footsteps upon other creatures.
What can be so beautiful as the image of God upon the soul? Creatures, the nearer they are
to God, the more pure and excellent. We see in the fabric of the world, bodies the higher they
are, the more pure and cleanly, the more beautiful. Now then, what was man that was “made a
little lower than the angels”?—in the Hebrew, “a little lower than God,” tantum non deus. Seeing
man is set next to God, his glory and beauty certainly surpasses the glory of the sun and of
the heavens. Things contiguous and next other are like other. The water is liker air than the
earth, therefore it is next the air. The air is liker heaven than water, therefore is it next
to it. Omne contiguum spirituali, est spirituale. Angels and men next to God, are spirits,
as he is a spirit. Now similitude is the ground of friendship. Pares paribus congregantur,
similitudo necessitudims vinculum. It is that which conciliates affections among men. So it
is here by proportion. God sees all is very good, and that man is the best of his works and
he loves him, and makes him his friend, for his own image which he beholds in him.

At length from these two roots this pleasant and fragrant fruit of communion with and enjoyment
of God grows up. This is the entertainment of friends, to delight in one another, and to enjoy
one another. Amicorum omnia communia. Love makes all common. It opens the treasure of God’s
fulness, and makes a vent of divine bounty towards man, and it opens the heart of man, and
makes it large as the sand of the sea to receive of God. Our receiving of his fulness is all
the entertainment we can give him. O what blessedness is this, for a soul to live in him! And
it lives in him when it loves him. Anima est ubi amat, non ubi animat. And to taste of his
sweetness and be satisfied with him, this makes perfect oneness, and perfect oneness with God,
who is “the fountain of life, and in whose favour is life,” is perfect blessedness.

But we must stand a little here and consider our misery, that have fallen from such an excellency.
How are we come down from heaven wonderfully? Sin has interposed between God and man and this
dissolves the union, and hinders the communion. An enemy has come between two friends, and
puts them at odds, and oh! an eternal odds. Sin hath sown this discord, and alienated our hearts
from God. Man’s glory consisted in the irradiation of the soul from God’s shining countenance,
this made him light, God’s face shined on him. But sin interposing has eclipsed that light
and brought on an eternal night of darkness over the soul. And thus we are spoiled of the image
of God, as when the earth comes between the sun and the moon. Now then, there can no beams
of divine favour and love break through directly towards us, because of the cloud of our sins,
that separates between God and us, and because of “the partition wall,” and “the hand writing
of ordinances that was against us,”—God’s holy law, and severe justice, Eph. ii. 14, Col. ii. 14.

Then, what shall we do? How shall we see his face in joy? Certainly it had been altogether
impossible, if our Lord Jesus Christ had not come, who is “the light and life of men.” The
Father shines on him, and the beams of his love reflect upon us, from the Son. The love of
God, and his favourable countenance, that cannot meet with us in a direct and immediate beam,
they fall on us in this blessed compass, by the intervention of a mediator. We are rebels standing
at a distance from God, Christ comes between, a mediator and a peace maker, to reconcile us
to God. “God is in Christ reconciling the world.” God first makes an union of natures with
Christ, and so he comes near to us, down to us who could not come up to him, and then he sends
out the word of reconciliation,—the gospel, the tenor whereof is this, “That which we have
seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us, and truly our
fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son,” 1 John i. 3. It is a voice of peace and invitation
to the fellowship of God. Behold, then the happiness of man is the very end and purpose of
the gospel. Christ is the repairer of the breaches, the second Adam aspired to quicken what
Adam killed. He hath “slain the enmity,” and cancelled the hand writing that was against us,
and so made peace by the blood of his cross, and then, having removed all that out of the way,
he comes and calls us unto the fellowship which we were ordained unto from our creation. We
who are rebels, are called to be friends, “I call you not servants, but friends.” It is a wonder
that the creature should be called a friend of God, but, O great wonder, that the rebel should
be called a friend! And yet that is not all. We are called to a nearer union,—to be the sons
of God, this is our privilege, John i. 12. This is a great part of our fellowship with the
Father and his Son, we are the Father’s children, and the Son’s brethren “and if children then
heirs, heirs of God,” and if brethren, then co-heirs with Christ, Rom. viii. 17.

Thus the union is begun again in Christ, but as long as sin dwells in our mortal bodies it
is not perfect, there is always some separation and some enmity in our hearts, and so there
is neither full seeing of God, for “we know but in part,” and we see “darkly,” nor full enjoying
of God, for we are “saved by hope,” and we “live by faith, and not by sight.” But this is begun
which is the seed of eternal communion, we are here partakers of the divine nature. Now then
it must aspire unto a more perfect union with God whose image it is. And therefore the soul
of a believer is here still in motion towards God as his element. There is here an union in
affection but not completed in fruition,—affectu non effecta. The soul pants after God,—“Whom
have I in heaven or earth but thee? My flesh and my heart faileth,” &c. A believing soul looks
upon God as its only portion,—accounts nothing misery but to be separated from him, and nothing
blessedness but to be one with him. This is the loadstone of their affections and desires,
the centre which they move towards, and in which they will rest. It is true, indeed, that oftentimes
our heart and our flesh faileth us, and we become ignorant and brutish. Our affections cleave
to the earth, and temptations with their violence turn our souls towards another end than God.
As there is nothing more easily moved and turned wrong than the needle that is touched with
the adamant, yet it settles not in such a posture, it recovers itself and rests never till
it look towards the north, and then it is fixed—even so, temptations and the corruptions and
infirmities of our hearts disturb our spirits easily, and wind them about from the Lord, towards
any other thing, but yet we are continuing with him, and he keeps us with his right hand, and
therefore though we may be moved, yet we shall not be greatly commoved, we may fall, but we
shall rise again. He is “the strength of our heart,” and therefore he will turn our heart about
again, and fix it upon its own portion. Our union here consists more in his holding of us by
his power, than our taking hold of him by faith. Power and good will encamp about both faith
and the soul. “We are kept by his power through faith,” 1 Pet i. 5. And thus he will guide
the soul, and still be drawing it nearer to him, from itself, and from sin and from the world,
till he “receive us into glory,” and until we be one as with the Father and the Son,—“He in
us and we in him, that we may be made perfect in one,” as it is in the words read.

This is strange. A greater unity and fuller enjoyment, a more perfect fellowship, than ever
Adam in his innocency would have been capable of! What soul can conceive it? what tongue express
it? None can, for it is that which “eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered
into man’s heart to conceive.” We must suspend the knowledge of it till we have experience
of it. Let us now believe it, and then we shall find it. There is a mutual inhabitation which
is wonderful. Persons that dwell one with another have much society and fellowship, but to
dwell one in another is a strange thing,—“I in them, and they in me,” and therefore God is
often said to dwell in us, and we to dwell in him. But that which makes it of all most wonderful
and incomprehensible is that glorious unity and communion between the Father and the Son, which
it is made an emblem of. “As thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be
one in us.” Can you conceive that unity of the Trinity? Can you imagine that reciprocal inhabitation,—that
mutual communion between the Father and the Son? No, it hath not entered into the heart to
conceive it. Only thus much we know, that it is most perfect, it is most glorious, and so much
we may apprehend of this unity of the saints with God. Oh love is an uniting and transforming
thing. “God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him.” He dwelleth
in us by love, this makes him work in us, and shine upon us. Love hath drawn him down from
his seat of majesty, to visit poor cottages of sinners, Isa. lxvi. 1, 2 and xlvi. 3, 4. And
it is that love of God reflecting upon our souls that carries the soul upward to him, to live
in him, and walk with him. O how doth it constrain a soul to “live to him,” and draw it from
itself! 2 Cor. v. 15. Then the more unity with God, the more separation from ourselves and
the world, the nearer God the farther from ourselves, and the farther from ourselves the more
happy, and the more unity with God, the more unity among ourselves, among the brethren of our
family. Because here we are not fully one with our Father, therefore there are many differences
between us and our brethren because we are not one perfectly in him, therefore we are not one,
as he and the Father are one. But when he shall be in us, and we in him, as the Father is in
the Son and the Son in the Father, then shall we be one among ourselves, then shall we meet
in the unity of the faith, into a perfect man, “into the measure of the stature of the fulness
of Christ,” Eph. iv. 13. Christ is the uniting principle. While the saints are not wholly one,
uni tertio, they cannot be perfectly one inter se, among themselves. Consider this, I beseech
you Christ’s union with the Father is the foundation of our union to God, and our union among
ourselves. This is comfortable, the ground of it is laid already. Now it is not simply the
unity of the Father and the Son in essence that is here meant, for what shadow and resemblance
can be in the world of such an incomprehensible mystery? But it is certainly the union and
communion of God with Christ Jesus as mediator, as the head of the church which is his body.
Therefore seeing the Father is so wonderfully well pleased and one with Christ, his well beloved
Son and messenger of the covenant, and chief party contracting in our name, he is by virtue
of this, one with us, who are his seed and members. And therefore, the members should grow
up in the head Christ, from whom the whole body maketh increase “according to the effectual
working [of the Spirit] in it,” Eph. v. 1, 16. Now, if the union between the Father and Christ
our head cannot be dissolved, and cannot be barren and unfruitful, then certainly the Spirit
of the Father which is given to Christ beyond measure, must effectually work in every member,
till it bring them to “the unity of the faith,” and, “to the measure of the perfect man, which
is the fulness of Christ.” So then every believing soul is one with the Father as Christ is
one, because he is the head and they the members, and the day is coming that all the members
shall be perfectly united to the head Christ and grow up to the perfect man, which is “the
stature of Christ’s fulness.” “And then shall we all be made perfect in one,” we shall be one
as he is one, because he and we are one perfect man, head and members.

Now, to what purpose is all this spoken? I fear, it doth not stir up in our souls a desire
after such a blessed life. Whose heart would not be moved at the sound of such words? “Our
fellowship is with the Father and with his Son.” We are made perfect, he in us, and we in him.
Certainly, that soul is void of the life of God that doth not find some sparkle of holy ambition
kindled within, after such a glorious and blessed condition! But these things savour not, and
taste not to the most part, “the natural man knoweth them not, for they are spiritually discerned.”
How lamentable is it, that Christ is come to restore us to our lost blessedness, and yet no
man almost considers it or lays it to heart! O how miserable,—twice miserable—is that soul
that doth not draw near to God in Christ, when God hath come so near to us in Christ, that
goes a whoring after the lust of the eyes and flesh, and after the imaginations of their own
heart, and will not be guided by Christ, the way and life, to glory! “Thou shalt destroy them,
O Lord,” Psal. lxxiii. 27. All men are afar off from God, from the womb behold, we may have
access to God in Christ. Wo to them that are yet afar off, and will not draw near, “they shall
all perish.” “I exhort you to consider what you are doing the most part of you are going away
from God, you were born far off, and you will yet go farther, know what you will meet with
in that way,—destruction.”

You have never yet asked in earnest, For what purpose you came into the world? What wonder
ye wander and walk at random, seeing ye have not proposed to yourselves any certain scope and
aim! It is great folly, you would not be so foolish in any petty business, but O how foolish
men are in the main business! “The light of the body is the eye,” if that be not light, “the
whole body is full of darkness.” If your intention be once right established, all your course
will be orderly, but if you be dark and blind in this point, and have not considered it, you
cannot walk in the light, your whole way is darkness. The right consideration of the great
end would shine unto you, and direct your way But while you have not proposed this end unto
yourselves—the enjoyment of God—you must spend your time either in doing nothing to that purpose,
or doing contrary to it. All your other lawful business, your callings and occupations, are
but in the by; they are not the end, nor the way, but you make them your only business; they
are altogether impertinent to this end. And the rest of your walking, in lusts and ignorance,
is not only impertinent, but inconsistent with it and contrary to it. If you think that you
have this before your eyes, to enjoy God,—I pray you look upon the way you choose. Is your
drunkenness, your swearing, your uncleanness, your contentions and railings, and such works
of the flesh,—are these the way to enjoy God? Shall not these separate between God and you?
Is your eating and drinking, sleeping as beasts, and labouring in your callings,—are these
all the means you use to enjoy God? Be not deceived; you who draw not near God by prayer often
in secret, and by faith in his Son Christ, as lost miserable sinners, to be saved and reconciled
by him, you have no fellowship with him, and you shall not enjoy him afterward! You whose hearts
are given to your covetousness, who have many lovers and idols besides him, you cannot say,
Whom have I besides Thee in earth? No; you have many other things besides God. You can have
nothing of God, except ye make him all to you.—unless you have him alone. “My undefiled is
One,” Cant. vi. 9. He must be alone, for “his glory he will not give to another.” If you divide
your affections, and pretend to give him part, and your lusts another part, you may be doing
so, but he will not divide his glory so, he will give no part of it to any other thing. But
as for those souls that come to him and see their misery without him, O know how good it is!
It is not only good, but best, yea only good; it is bonum, and it is optimum; yea, it is unicum.
“There is none good, save one, even God;” and there is nothing good for us but this one, to
be near God, and so near, that we may be one,—one spirit with the Lord,—“for he that is joined
to the Lord is one spirit.” Rejoice in your portion, and long for the possession of it. Let
all your meditations and affections and conversation proclaim this, “Whom have I in heaven
but thee? and there is none in the earth whom I desire besides thee.” And certainly he shall
guide you to the end, and receive you into glory. Then you shall rest from your labours, because
you shall dwell in him, and enjoy that which you longed and laboured for. Let the consideration
of that end unite the hearts of Christians here. O what an absurd thing is it, that those who
shall lodge together at night, and be made “perfect in one,” should not only go contrary ways,
but have contrary minds and affections!

                               Lecture III.

The Authority And Utility Of The Scriptures

    2 Tim. iii. We see the most part
of men walking at random,—running an uncertain race,—because they do not
propose unto themselves a certain scope to aim at, and whither to direct
their whole course. According to men’s particular inclinations and humours
so do the purposes and designs of men vary; and often do the purposes of
one man change, according to the circumstances of time and his condition
in the world. We see all men almost running cross one to another. One
drives at the satisfaction of his lust by pleasure; another fancies a
great felicity in honour; a third in getting riches; and thus men divide
themselves; whereas, if it were true happiness that all were seeking, they
would all go one way towards one end. If men be not in the right way, the
faster they seem to move toward the mark, the farther they go from it.
Wandering from the right way, (suppose men intend well) will put them
farther from that which they intend. Si via in contrarium ducat, ipsa
velocitas majoris intervalli causa est. Therefore it concerns us all most
deeply to be acquainted with the true path of blessedness; for if we once
mistake, the more we do, the swifter we move, the more distant we are from
it indeed. And there is the more need, because there are so many by-paths
that lead to destruction. What say I? By-paths! No; highways, beaten
paths, that the multitude of men walk in, and never challenge, nor will
endure to be challenged as if they were in an error! In other journeys,
men keep the plain highway, and are afraid of any secret by-way, lest it
lead them wrong: At hic, via quæque tritissima maxime decipit. Here the
high-pathed way leads wrong, and O, far wrong!—to hell. This is the
meaning of Christ’s sermon, “Enter in at the strait gate, but walk not in
the broad way where many walk, for it leads to destruction.” Therefore I
would have this persuasion once begotten in your souls, that the course of
this world,—the way of the most part of men,—is dangerous, is damnable. O
consider whither the way will lead you, before you go farther! Do not
think it a folly to stand still now, and examine it, when you have gone on
so long in their company. Stand, I say, and consider! Be not ignorant as
beasts, that know no other things than to follow the drove; quæ pergunt,
non quo eundum est, sed quo itur; they follow not whither they ought to
go, but whither most go. You are men, and have reasonable souls within
you; therefore I beseech you, be not composed and fashioned according to
custom and example, that is, brutish, but according to some inward
knowledge and reason. Retire once from the multitude, and ask in earnest
at God, What is the way? Him that fears him he will teach the way that he
should choose. The way to his blessed end is very strait, very difficult;
you must have a guide in it,—you must have a lamp and a light in it,—else
you cannot but go wrong.

The principles of reason within us are too dark and dim; they will never lead us through the
pits and snares in the way. These indeed shined so brightly in Adam that he needed no light
without him, no voice about him; but sin hath extinguished it much; and there remains nothing
but some little spunk or sparkle, under the ashes of much corruption, that is but insufficient
in itself, and is often more blinded and darkened by lusts. So that if it were never so much
refined—as it was in many heathens—yet it is but the blind leading the blind, and both must
fall into the ditch. Our end is high and divine,—to glorify God and to enjoy him; therefore
our reason caligat ad suprema; it can no more steadfastly behold that glorious end, and move
towards it, than our weak eyes can behold the sun. Our eyes can look downward upon the earth,
but not upward to the heavens: so we have some remnant of reason in us, that hath some petty
and poor ability for matters of little moment, as the things of this life; but if we once look
upward to the glory of God, or eternal happiness, our eyes are dazzled, our reason confounded,
we cannot steadfastly behold it, Eph. iv. 18; 2 Cor. iii. 13, 14.

Therefore the Lord hath been pleased to give us the scriptures, which may be “a lamp unto our
feet,” and a guide unto our way; whereunto we shall do well “to take heed, as unto [a candle
or] a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn,” 2 Peter i. 19. These are “able
to make us wise unto salvation.” Let us hear what Paul speaks to Timothy, 2 Tim. iii. 16, “All
scripture is given by inspiration of God,” &c.: where you have two points of high concernment,—the
authority of the scriptures, and their utility. Their authority, for they are given by divine
inspiration; their utility, for they are “profitable for doctrine,” &c., and can make us perfect,
and well “furnished to every good work.”

The authority of it is in a peculiar way divine. “Of him and through him are all things.” All
writings of men, according to the truth of the scriptures, have some divinity in them, inasmuch
as they have of truth, which is a divine thing. Yet the holy scriptures are by way of excellency
attributed to God, for they are immediately inspired of God. Therefore Peter saith that “the
scriptures came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men spake as they were moved by
the Holy Ghost,” 2 Peter i. 21. God by his Spirit, as it were, acted the part of the soul in
the prophets and apostles; and they did no more but utter what the Spirit conceived. The Holy
Ghost inspired the matter and the words, and they were but tongues and pens to speak and write
it unto the people; there needed no debate, no search in their own minds for the truth, no
inquisition for light; but light shined upon their souls so brightly, so convincingly, that
it put it beyond all question that it was the mind and voice of God. You need not ask, How
they did know that their dreams or visions were indeed from the Lord, and that they did not
frame any imagination in their own hearts and taught it for his word, as many did? I say, you
need no more ask that than ask, How shall a man see light or know the sunshine? Light makes
itself manifest, and all other things. It is seen by its own brightness. Even so the holy men
of God needed not any mark or sign to know the Spirit’s voice, his revelation needed not the
light of any other thing, it was light itself. It would certainly overpower the soul and mind,
and leave no place of doubting. God, who cannot be deceived, and can deceive no man, hath delivered
us this doctrine. O with what reverence shall we receive it, as if we heard the Lord from heaven
speak. If you ask, How you shall be persuaded that the scriptures are the word of God,—His
very mind opened to men and made legible. Truly there are some things cannot be well proved,
not because they are doubtful but because they are clear of themselves, and beyond all doubt
and exception. Principles of arts must not be proved, but supposed, till you find by trial
and experience afterward that they were indeed really true. There are, no question, such characters
of divinity and majesty imprinted in the very scriptures themselves, that whosoever hath the
eyes of his understanding opened, though he run he may read them, and find God in them. What
majesty is in the very simplicity and plainness of the scriptures! They do not labour to please
men’s ears, and adorn the matter with the curious garments of words and phrases, but represent
the very matter itself to the soul, as that which in itself is worthy of all acceptation, and
needs no human eloquence to commend it. Painting doth spoil native beauty. External ornaments
would disfigure some things that are of themselves proportioned and lovely, therefore the Lord
chooses a plain and simple style which is foolishness to the world, but in these swaddling
clothes of the scriptures, and this poor cottage the child Jesus, the Lord of heaven and earth,
is contained. There is a jewel of the mysterious wisdom of God, and man’s eternal blessedness,
in this mineral. What glorious and astonishing humility is here! What humble and homely glory
and majesty also! He is most high, and yet none so lowly. What excellent consent and harmony
of many writers in such distant times! Wonder at it. All speak one thing to one purpose,—to
bring men to God, to abase all glory, and exalt him alone. Must it not be one spirit that hath
quickened all these and breathes in them all this one heavenly song of “glory to God on high
and good will towards men.” Other writers will reason these things with you to convince you
and persuade you, and many think them more profound and deep for that reason, and do despise
the baseness of the scriptures, but to them whose eyes are opened, the majesty and authority
of God commanding and asserting and testifying to them, is more convincing from its own bare
assertion, than all human reason.

Although there be much light in the scriptures to guide men’s way to God’s glory and their
own happiness, yet it will all be to small purpose if “the eyes of our understanding be darkened
and blinded.” If you shall surround a man with day light, except he open his eyes he cannot
see. The scriptures are a clear sun of life and righteousness, but the blind soul encompassed
with that light is nothing the wiser, but thinks the lamp of the word shines not, because it
sees not, it hath its own dungeon within it. Therefore the Spirit of God must open the eyes
of the blind, and enlighten the eyes of the understanding, that the soul may see wonderful
things in God’s law, Psal. cxix. 5, 18. The light may shine in the darkness, but “the darkness
comprehendeth it not,” John i. 5. I wonder not that the most part of men can see no beauty,
no majesty, no excellency in the holy scriptures to allure them, because they are natural,
and have not the Spirit of God, and so cannot know these things “for they are spiritually discerned,”
1 Cor. ii. 14. Therefore as the inspiration of God did conceive this writing at first, and
preached this doctrine unto the world, so there can no soul understand it, or profit by it,
but by the inspiration of the Almighty. “Verily there is a spirit in man, and the inspiration
of the Almighty giveth him understanding,” saith Job. When the Spirit comes into the soul to
engrave the characters of that law and truth into the heart which were once engraven on tables
of stone, and not written with pen and ink, then the Spirit of Christ Jesus writes over and
transcribes the doctrine of the gospel on “the fleshly tables of the heart,”—draws the lineaments
of that faith and love preached in the word upon the soul, then the soul is “the epistle of
Christ,” “written not with [pen and] ink, but with the Spirit of the living God,” 2 Cor. iii.
3. And then the soul is manifestly declared to be such, when that which is impressed on the
heart is expressed in the outward man in walking, that it may be “read of all men.” Now the
soul having thus received the image of the scriptures on it, understands the Spirit’s voice
in them, and sees the truth and divinity of them. The eye must receive some species and likeness
of the object before it see it, it must be made like to the object ere it can behold it,—Intelligens
in arta fit ipsum intelligibile, so the soul must have some inspiration of the Holy Ghost,
before it can believe with the heart the inspired scriptures.

Now, for the utility and profit of the scriptures, who can speak of it according to its worth?
Some things may be over commended,—nay, all things but this one,—God speaking in his word to
mankind. Many titles are given to human writings, some are called accurate, some subtile, some
ingenious and some profound and deep, some plain, some learned, but call them what they please,
the scripture may vindicate to itself these two titles as its own prerogative,—holy and profitable.
The best speaker in the world in many words cannot want sin, the best writer hath some dross
and refuse, but here, all is holy, all is profitable. Many books are to no purpose but to feed
and inflame men’s lusts, many serve for nothing but to spend and drive over the time, without
thought most part are good for nothing but to burden and over weary the world to put them in
a fancy of knowledge which they have not, many serve for this only, to nourish men’s curiosity
and vain imaginations, and contentions about words and notions, but here is a book profitable,—all
profitable. If you do not yet profit by it, you can have no pleasure in it, it is only ordained
for soul’s profiting, not for pleasing your fancy, not for matter of curious speculation, not
for contention and strife about the interpretation of it. Many books have nothing in them,
but specious titles to commend them, they do nothing less than what they promise, they have
a large and fair entry, which leads only into a poor cottage, but the scriptures have no hyperbolic
and superlative styles to allure men, they hold out a plain and common gate and entry which
will undoubtedly lead to a pleasant palace, others et prodesse volunt et delectare, but these
certainly et prodesse volunt et possunt,—they both can profit you and will profit you. I wish
that souls would read the scriptures as profitable scriptures with the intention to profit.
If you do not read with such a purpose, you read not the scriptures of God, they become as
another book unto you. But what are they profitable for? For doctrine, and a divine doctrine,
a doctrine of life and happiness. It is the great promise of the new covenant, “You shall be
all taught of God.” The scriptures can make a man learned and wise, learned to salvation, it
is foolishness to the world, “but the world through wisdom know not God.” Alas! what then do
they know? Is there any besides God? And is there any knowledge besides the knowledge of God?
You have a poor petty wisdom among you to gather riches and manage your business. Others have
a poor imaginary wisdom that they call learning, and generally people think, to pray to God
is but a paper-skill, a little book-craft, they think the knowledge of God is nothing else
but to learn to read the Bible. Alas! mistake not, it is another thing to know God. The doctrine
of Jesus Christ written on the heart is a deep profound learning and the poor, simple, rudest
people, may by the Spirit’s teaching become wiser than their ancients, than their ministers.
O, it is an excellent point of learning, to know how to be saved. What is it, I pray you to
know the course of the heavens,—to number the orbs, and the stars in them—to measure their
circumference,—to reckon their motions,—and yet not to know him that sits on the circle of
them, and not know how to inhabit and dwell there? If you would seek unto God, and seek eyes
opened to behold the mystery of the word, you would become wiser than your pastors, you would
learn from the Spirit to pray better, you would find the way to heaven better than they can
teach you, or walk in it.

Then, it is “profitable for reproof and correction.” It contains no doctrine very pleasant
to men’s natural humours, but it is indeed most pleasant to a right and ordered taste. You
know, the distemper of the eye, or the perverting of the taste, will misrepresent pleasant
things, and sweet things to the senses, and make them appear ill savoured and bitter. But,
I say, to a discerning spirit there is nothing so sweet, so comely. “I have seen an end of
all perfection,” but none of thy law. “Thy word is sweeter to me than the honey, or the honey
comb.” If a soul be prepossessed with the love of the world, and the lusts of the world, it
cannot savour and taste of them, that vicious quality in the mind will make the pleasant gospel
unpleasant. “I piped unto you and ye have not danced.” But however, the scriptures are then
most profitable when they are least pleasant to our corruptions, and, therefore, it is an absolute
and entire piece. Ut prodesse volunt et delectare. Omne tulit punctum, qui miscuit utile dulci.
There are sharp reproofs, and sad corrections of his holy law which must make way for the pleasant
and sweet gospel. There is a reproof of life—a wounding before healing—that whoso refuse them,
despise their own soul, but “the ear that heareth them abideth among the wise,” Prov. xv 31,
32. Woe unto that soul that correction or reproof or threatening is grievous unto, “he shall
die,” Prov. xv. 10, “he is brutish,” Prov. xii. 1. There is a generation of men that can endure
to hear nothing but gospel promises, that cry out against all reproving of sins, and preaching
of God’s wrath against unbelieving sinners as legal, and meddling with other men’s matters,
especially if they reprove the sins of rulers, their public state enormities, as if the whole
word of God were not profitable, as if reproofs were not as wholesome as consolations, as if
threatenings did not contribute to make men flee from the wrath to come into a city of refuge.
Let such persons read their own character out of wise Solomon, “Correction is grievous to them
that forsake the way.” “Rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee, give instruction to a wise
man, and he will be yet wiser,” Prov. ix. 8, 9. If we were pleasers of men, then were we not
the servants of Jesus Christ, let us strive to profit men, but not to please them. Peace, peace,
which men’s own hearts fancy, would please them, but it were better for them to be awakened
out of that dream, by reproof, by correction, and he that will do so, shall “find more favour
of him afterwards, than he that flattereth with the tongue,”  Prov. xxviii. 23.

Well then, let this be established in your hearts as the foundation of all true religion, that
the scriptures are the word of the eternal God, and that they contain a perfect and exact rule
both of glorifying God and of the way to enjoy him. They can make you perfect to every good
work. I shall say no more on this, but beseech you, as you love your own souls, be acquainting
yourselves with them. You will hear, in these days of men pretending to more divine and spiritual
discoveries and revelations than the scriptures contain but, my brethren, these can make you
“wise to salvation,” these can make you “perfect to every good work.” Then, what needs more?
All that is besides salvation, and beyond perfection, count it superfluous and vain, if not
worse, if not diabolical. Let others be wise to their own destruction,—let them establish their
own imaginations for the word of God, and rule of their faith,—but hold you fast what you have
received, and “contend earnestly for it.” Add nothing, and diminish nothing, let this lamp
shine “till the day dawn, ’till the morning of the resurrection,” and walk ye in the light
of it, and do not kindle any other sparkles, else ye shall lie down in the grave in sorrow,
and rise in sorrow. Take the word of God as the only rule, and the perfect rule,—a rule for
all your actions, civil, natural, and religious, for all must be done to his glory, and his
word teacheth how to attain to that end. Let not your imaginations, let not others example,
let not the preaching of men, let not the conclusions and acts of Assemblies be your rule,
but in as far as you find them agreeing with the perfect rule of God’s holy word. All other
rules are regulæ regulatæ, they are but like publications and intimations of the rule itself.
Ordinances of assemblies are but like the herald promulgation of the king’s statute and law,
if it vary in any thing from his intention, it is not valid and binding. I beseech you, take
the scriptures for the rule of your walking or else you will wander, the scripture is regula
regulans, a ruling rule. If you be not acquainted with it, you must follow the opinions or
examples of other men, and what if they lead you unto destruction?

                               Lecture IV.

The Scriptures Reveal Eternal Life Through Jesus Christ

    John v. 39—“Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have
    eternal life, and they are they which testify of me.” Eph. ii.
    20—“And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and
    prophets.”

As in darkness there is need of a lantern without and the light of the eyes within—for neither
can we see in darkness without some lamp though we have never so good eyes, nor yet see without
eyes, though in never so clear a sunshine—so there is absolute need for the guiding of our
feet in the dangerous and dark paths to eternal life (that are full of pits and snares,) of
the lamp, or word written or preached, without us, and the illumination of the Holy Ghost within
us. These are conjoined, Isa. liv. There is a law written without, with pen and ink, and there
is a law written within, upon the heart, with the Spirit of the living God. The law without
is the pattern and exact copy, the law within, is the transcript or the image of God upon the
heart, framed and fashioned according to the similitude of it, 2 Cor. iii. 3, Heb. viii. 10.
So then, there needs be no more question about the divine authority of the scriptures among
those who have their senses exercised to discern between good and ill, than among men who see
and taste, concerning light and darkness, sweet and bitter. The persuasion of a Christian is
fetched deeper than the reasons of men. Their faith is “the evidence of things not seen.” It
is an eye, a supernatural eye whereby a soul beholds that majesty and excellency of God shining
in the word, which, though it shine about the rest of the world, yet tis not seen, because
they cannot know it nor discern it. Wonder not that the multitude of men cannot believe the
report that is made, that there are few who find any such excellency and sweetness in the gospel
as is reported, because saith Isaiah, liii. 1, the arm of “the Lord is not revealed to them.”
The hand of God must first write on their heart, ere they understand the writings of the scriptures,
his arm must create an eye in their souls, an internal light, before it can behold that glorious
brightness of God shining in the word. The word is God’s testimony of himself, of his grace
and mercy, and good will to mankind. Now no man can receive this testimony, unless it be sealed
and confirmed by the Holy Ghost into the heart, saith Peter, “We are his witnesses of these
things and so is also the Holy Ghost whom God hath given to them that obey him,” Acts v. 32.
The word witnesses to the ear, and the Spirit testifieth to our spirits, the truth and worth
of that, and therefore the Spirit is a seal and a witness. The word is the Lord’s voice to
his own children, bastards cannot know it, “but my sheep know my voice,” John x. 4, 16. You
know no difference between the bleating of one sheep from another, but the poor lambs know
their mother’s voice, there is a secret instinct of nature that is more powerful than many
marks and signs, even so those who are begotten of God know his voice,—they discern that in
it which all the world that hear it cannot discern—there is a sympathy between their souls
and that living word. That word is the immortal seed they are begotten of and there is a natural
instinct to love that, and to meditate in it, such an inclination to it, as in new born babes
to the breasts, so the children of God do desire the sincere milk of the word, that they may
grow thereby, as they were born of it, 1 Pet. ii. 2. In those scriptures which we read in your
audience, you have something of their excellency, and our duty. There is a rich jewel in them,
a precious pearl in that field, even Jesus Christ and in him eternal life; and therefore we
ought to search the scriptures for this jewel, to dig in the field for this pearl, the doctrine
of the prophets and apostles, as a sure foundation whereupon souls may build their eternal
felicity, and the hope of it. Jesus Christ is the very chief stone in that foundation, whereupon
the weight of all the saints and all their hope hangs. And therefore we ought to lean the weight
of our souls only to this truth of God, and build our faith only upon it, and square our practice
only by it.

We shall speak something of the first, that it may be a spur to the second. The Jews had some
respective opinion of the word of God; they knew that in them was eternal life; they thought
it a doctrine of life and happiness, and so cried up Moses’ writings, but they would not believe
Christ’s words. They erred, not understanding the scriptures, and so set the writings of Moses’
law at variance with the preaching of Christ’s gospel. What a pitiful mistake was this! They
thought they had eternal life in the scriptures, and yet they did not receive nor acknowledge
him whom to know was eternal life. Therefore our Lord Jesus sends them back again to the scriptures:—“Go
and search them; you think, and you think well, that in them ye may find the way to eternal
life; but while you seek it in them you mistake it; these scriptures testify of me, the end
of the law, but you cannot behold the end of that ministry, because of the blindness of your
hearts, (Rom. x. 3; 2 Cor. iii. 13, 14.) Therefore search again, unfold the ceremonies; I am
wrapt in them, and life eternal with me. Dig up the law till you find the bottom of God’s purpose
in it,—till you find the end of the ministration,—and you shall find me, ‘the way, the truth,
and life;’ and so you shall have that eternal life which now you do but think you have, and
are beguiled. While you seek it out of me, in vain you think you have it, for it is not in
the scriptures, but because they testify of me, the life and the light of men.” May not this
now commend the word to us? eternal life is in it. Other writings and discourses may tickle
the ears with some pleasing eloquence, but that is vanishing; it is but like a musician’s voice.
Some may represent some petty and momentary advantage, but how soon shall an end be put to
all that? So that within a little time the advantage of all the books of the world shall be
gone. The statutes and laws of kings and parliaments can reach no further than some temporal
reward or punishment; their highest pain is the killing of this body; their highest reward
is some evanishing and fading honour, or perishing riches; but “he showeth his word and judgments
unto us, and hath not dealt so with any nation,” Psal. cxlvii. 19, 20. And no nation under
the whole heaven hath such laws and ordinances; eternal life and eternal death is wrapt up
in them. These are rewards and punishments suitable to the majesty and magnificence of the
eternal Lawgiver. Consider, I beseech you, what is folded up here,—the scriptures show the
path of life; life is of all things the most excellent, and comes nearest the blessed being
of God. When we say life, we understand a blessed life, that only deserves the name. Now this
we have lost in Adam. Death is passed upon all men, but that death is not the worst: ’tis but
a consequence of a soul-death. The immortal soul—whose life consisteth in communion with God,
and peace with him—is separated from him by sin, and so killed, when it is cut off from the
fountain of life; what a life can it have more, than a beam that is cut off by the intervention
of a dark body from the sun. Now then, what a blessed doctrine must it be that brings to light,
life and immortality? especially when we have so miserably lost it, and involved our souls
into an eternal death. Life is precious in itself, but much more precious to one condemned
to die,—to be caught out of the paws of the lion,—to be brought back from the gibbet. O how
will that commend the favour of a little more time in the world! But then if we knew what an
eternal misery we are involved into, and stand under a sentence binding us over to such an
inconceivable and insupportable punishment as is the curse and wrath of God; O how precious
an esteem would souls have of the scriptures, how would they be sweet unto their soul, because
they show unto us a way of escaping that pit of misery, and a way of attaining eternal blessedness
as satisfying and glorious as the misery would have been vexing and tormenting! O that ye would
once lay these in the balance together,—this present life and life eternal! Know ye not that
your souls are created for eternity; that they will eternally survive all these present things?
Now how do ye imagine they shall live after this life? Your thoughts and projects and designs
are confined within the poor narrow bounds of your time. When you die, in that day your thoughts
shall perish. All your imaginations and purposes and providences shall have an end then; they
reach no farther than that time. And if you should wholly perish too, it were not so much matter.
But for all your purposes and projects to come to an end, when you are but beginning to live,
and enter eternity, that is lamentable indeed! Therefore I say, consider what ye are doing,
weigh these in a balance,—eternal life and the present life; if there were no more difference
but the continuance of the one, and the shortness of the other,—that the world’s standing is
but as one day, one moment to eternity,—that ought to preponderate in your souls. Do we not
here flee away as a shadow upon the mountains? Are we not as a vapour that ascends, and for
a little time appears a solid body, and then presently vanisheth? Do we not come all into the
stage of the world, as for an hour, to act our part and be gone; now then, what is this to
endless eternity? When you have continued as long as since the world began, you are no nearer
the end of it. Ought not that estate then to be most in your eyes, how to lay up a foundation
for the time to come? But then, compare the misery and the vexation of this life with the glory
and felicity of this eternal life. What are our days? But few and full of trouble. Or, if you
will, take the most blessed estate you have seen and heard of in this world, of kings and rich
men, and help all the defects of it by your imaginations; suppose unto yourselves the height
and pitch of glory and abundance and power that is attainable on earth; and when your fancy
hath busked up such a felicity, compare it with an eternal life: O how will that vanish out
of your imaginations! If so be you know any thing of the life to come, you will even think
that an odious comparison,—you will think all that earthly felicity but light as vanity, “every
man at his best estate is altogether vanity.” Eternal life will weigh down eternally, 2 Cor.
iv. 17, 18. O but it hath an exceeding weight in itself,—one moment of it, one hour’s possession
and taste of it! but then what shall the endless endurance of it add to its weight? Now there
are many that presume they have a right to eternal life, as the Jews did. You think, saith
he, that you have it; you think well, that you think ’tis only to be found in the scriptures;
but you vainly think that you have found it in them: and there is this reason for it, because
“you will not come to me that you might have life,” John v. 40. If you did understand the true
meaning of the scriptures, and did not rest on the outward letter and ordinances, you would
receive the testimony that the scriptures give of me. But now you bear not me, the Father’s
substantial Word, therefore “ye have not his word abiding in you,” ver. 38. There was nothing
more general among that people, than a vain carnal confidence and presumption of being God’s
people, and having interest in the promise of life eternal, as it is this day in the visible
church. There is a multitude that are Christians only in the letter, and not in the spirit,
that would never admit any question concerning this great matter of having eternal life; and
so by not questioning it, they come to think they have it, and by degrees their conjectures
and thoughts about this ariseth to the stability of some feigned and strong persuasion of it.
In the Old Testament the Lord strikes at the root of their persuasions, by discovering unto
them how vain a thing it was, and how abominable it was before him, to have an external profession
of being his people, and to glory in external ordinances and privileges, and yet to neglect
altogether the purging of their hearts and consciences from lust and idol-sins, and to make
no conscience of walking righteously towards men. Their profession was contradicted by their
practice, “Will ye steal, murder, and commit adultery, and yet come and stand in my house?”
Jer. vii. 9, 10. Doth not that say as much as if I had given you liberty to do all these abominations?
Even so it is this day; the most part have no more of Christianity but a name. They have some
outward privileges of baptism and hearing the word; and, it may be, have a form of knowledge,
and a form of worship; but in the meantime they are not baptized in heart,—they are in all
their conversation even conformed to the heathen world,—they hate personal reformation, and
think it too precise and needless. Now, I say, such are many of you, and yet you would not
take well to have it questioned whether ye shall be partakers of eternal life. You think you
are wronged when that is called in question. Oh that it were beyond all question indeed! But
know assuredly that you are but Christians in the letter,—in the flesh and not in the spirit.
Many of you have not so much as “a form of knowledge”—have not so much as the letter of religion.
You have heard some names in the preaching often repeated,—as Christ, and God, and faith, and
heaven, and hell,—and you know no more of these but the name. You consider not and meditate
not on them, and though you know the truth of the word, yet the word abideth not nor dwelleth
in you. You have it in your mouth, you have it in your mind or understanding, but it is not
received in love, it doth not dwell in the heart. “Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly,”
Col. iii. 16. You have it imprisoned in your minds, and shut up in a corner where it is useless,
and can do no more but witness against you, and scarce that. As the Gentiles incarcerated and
detained the truth of God, written by nature within them, in unrighteousness, (Rom. i. 18)
so do many of you detain the knowledge of his word in unrighteousness. It hath no place in
the heart, gets no liberty and freedom to walk through the affections and so to order the conversation
of men, and therefore the most part of men do but fancy to themselves an interest and right
to eternal life. You think it, and do but think it, it is but a strong imagination, that hath
no strength from the grounds of it, no stability from any evidence or promise, but merely from
itself, or it is but a light and vain conjecture that hath no strength in it because there
is no question or doubts admitted which may try the strength of it.