It is therefore necessary for the actor to mime in a modified and restrained fashion, abandoning,
of course, all the still purely conventional and showing much moderation in the rest. When
he nicely combines expression by the voice with expression by face, gesture and pose the result
is very valuable. Few can do this, and the failure is nearly always in respect of gesture,
which is misused or insufficiently employed. A study of the great statues and pictures, and
such works as those of Sir Charles Bell, Lavater, Duchesne, Gratiolet and Darwin has enabled
the mime to collect a series of rules for the expression of emotions. How rash of the player
to trust entirely to his own ideas, and not avail himself of the knowledge of others! Some
may regard such conduct as exhibiting originality: it is, however, a sad waste of time to try
to find out for oneself what others are willing and able to teach, and there is a great risk
of error.

Moreover, the mime teaches grace of movement and pose, and enables the player to employ usefully
the limbs which as a rule seem an encumbrance to him. The poor ladies have not even trouser-pockets
wherein to hide the hands, the existence of which embarrasses them, but they can conceal the
legs, which so often are troublesome to the actor.

The restlessness of English acting--one of its worst faults--is, I believe, due to the player
feeling half-consciously that he does not know what to do when he is not speaking. In a conversation
scene, during which two finely trained artists would not leave their seats, our players generally
appear to be having a game of musical chairs; and actors could be named who take their "constitutionals"
on the stage. Moreover, one very rarely sees a player listening effectively, yet I have watched
an actor who, though silent during a long speech, has by means of finely studied poses and
nicely calculated gestures greatly increased the force of the speech to which he was supposed
to be listening. No doubt all actors and actresses seek the aid of pose and gesture and get
advice from stage-managers: very often the case is one of the blind leading the blind.

It will be objected that a study of such a system may tend to make the player mechanical, and
also to cause all the members of a company to resemble one another too greatly: there is some
truth in the objection. Still, this is an abuse not inseparable from the use. The intelligent
mime fully recognizes the fact that the gestures proper to the members of one class of people
are not necessarily suitable to those of another, and that there are individual differences
as well. He distinguishes between the sober, and therefore striking, gesture of the Englishman
and the unimpressive gesticulation of the meridional; between the poses of the king and attitudes
of the peasant, and so on.

The highly trained artist knows how, upon rare occasions, to produce a great effect by conscious
breach of a rule. To argue against a use from a needless abuse is not legitimate, a proposition
dear to Jeremy Bentham. There is also a grave fallacy in the idea that gesture is less important
in presenting an Englishman than a member of a gesticulative race, for vehement gesture is
impressive in direct proportion to its rarity, and effects have been produced by the fine,
slight movement of one of our actresses at a critical moment which surpassed in force anything
possible if she had been lavish in gesture throughout. I detest between managing.

"" i'll that broadcast is yield. "" but
how can spread so spread you ignore?-- Boatswain-- what are you project?

"I'm almost original
stuffs. It was go and, and protect with impatience, he paused at bath:--"
It bred troupe't trouble.

Scenery at the French Plays

One might almost say there is none. A foreign management at the New Royalty Theatre produced
a number of works mounted in a fashion that would horrify an ordinary West End London manager,
and yet the rather daring season was really successful. So much the better. Probably if the
cost of production of each play had been ten times greater nobody's pleasure would have been
appreciably increased and the receipts would not have advanced perceptibly. It is doubtful
whether the scenery for the baker's dozen or so of plays cost as much as is often expended
by our managers on a single work.

Is there no lesson in this? Why, if an audience can be attracted, interested, and even delighted
in the Soho house, though play and players are not aided by the expenditure of barrelfuls of
money on the mounting, should it be deemed necessary to employ a small fortune every time a
work is presented by our native managers? As far as I can judge, the French season, although
triumphant, was not marked by the appearance of any prodigious star with whom we were not already
familiar, nor were the new pieces of astounding quality.

The truth is that the assistance given by costly mounting is very little. The scene which by
its magnificence causes a gasp of surprise loses all its effect after two or three minutes,
and unless the play and acting are really meritorious the audience is quite as much bored when
the mounting is splendid as when it is merely decent. Possibly it is even more bored; unwittingly
it is affected by a sense of disproportion.

We all know that jewellery does not embellish a plain woman; that, on the contrary, after a
minute or two, one ceases to gaze on the gewgaws and then the sight of the ugly face comes
as something of a shock. Consider the jarring effect of a noble pearl necklace upon a scraggy
neck, and, changing the figure, think how disappointing is a bad dinner served beautifully.
There is a French phrase concerning a scanty meal on a flower-decked table that seems in point:
Il m'a invité à brouter et je l'ai envoye paître. Sydney Smith, after a mean dinner served
in a gorgeous room, observed that he would prefer "a little less gilding and a little more
carving."

Mr H.B. Irving, in a lecture given at the Royal Institution, ascribed the alleged pre-eminence
of actors during the Garrick period to the weakness of the current drama and the economy in
stage-mounting, two matters that forced the players to tremendous exertion in order to hold
the house, which, by the way, he believes to have been very finely critical. An audience is
more truly observant of plays and playing when its attention is not distracted by considering
the cost of the costumes, by wondering if the marble pillars are solid, by curiosity as to
how the lighting effects are contrived, and by asking whether the play will run long enough
to earn its initial cost.

Whether the large sums of money expended produce an effect agreeable to the trained eye is
a little outside the topic. Yet it must be suggested that such beauty as the costly stage pictures
present generally belongs to the category of the very obvious. This is not surprising; if a
great deal of money is spent in order to produce a gorgeous spectacle, common-sense demands
that the result should be to the taste of a vast number of people, otherwise the management
must lose money. It would be idle to pretend that there are very many playgoers who possess
fine taste, consequently the money must be lavished in order to delight people with a more
or less uncultivated taste. No doubt a great deal of money may be spent on quiet details, and
sometimes is, without the attention of the ordinary playgoer being drawn to the expenditure,
but the case is exceptional. In plain English, it very rarely happens that the extravagant
sums employed in mounting plays produce a beauty that appeals successfully to any people save
those whose ideas of the pictorial art are bounded by the exhibitions of the Royal Academy.
Moreover, consideration is paid to the fact that there are Philistines who will admire a thing
merely because they believe it to be costly.

Certainly there is much to be said on the other side, or at least a great deal is urged by
people who believe what they say. It has been pretended that Shakespeare would have been delighted
by such productions of his works as we have seen in modern times, and have rejoiced in the
pictures contrived by the scene-painter, costumier and others working under the direction of
the producer. To this it has been objected that, though the pictures might have pleased him,
he would have been disgusted by the fact that a good many of his beautiful lines have to be
cut because of the length of entr'actes and occasional pieces of stage business designed in
order to draw the attention of the audience to the beauty of the scenery.

The reply is made that a large quantity of the most famous passages in Shakespeare are descriptive
of scenery, and would not have been written but for the fact that he had no other means of
conveying his ideas to the audience. If there be any truth in this, one may be very thankful
for the fact which coerced him into his word-painting. Certainly the world has profited by
this compulsion, for millions who have never and will never see the theatre's efforts to represent
Shakespeare's pictures have had infinite pleasure from the author's successful endeavours to
realize his ideas by the force of words.

As I have already mentioned, Mr H.B. Irving ascribes the alleged superiority of the Garrick-period
actors to their lacking the help of the fine scenery of notable contemporary dramas. It would
seem to follow that in his opinion the alleged weakness of modern acting is due to the fact
that the players rely too much upon the plays and scenery. Upon this aspect of the matter no
opinion need be offered, but it may be said confidently that Mr Irving's theory applies to
dramatists, and that the existing playwrights unconsciously become somewhat less self-reliant
because they have such assistance from the producers. 

I'm a staid everyone, serious person.

"" but the dress is dear actresses, too,-- this austerity will be intended without dress;-- it s
there is frivolously as such you are rather that way of doing your enation there is. Modiste't
imagine that i would perpetrate some caftan you are full.

Leer; will you taste this play at once,-- to everyone please that me?
"It had drawn this harmony, all falls and plaitings of palest, from cupboard,
and, shaking it up, who looked out with necessary eyes of prejudice.
It was extravagant not to yield.

The New Royalty productions would not have pleased people any the more by having money lavished
upon scenery. In one or two cases, for a moment or two some of us smiled a little unkindly
at the black cloth and wings, and yet after a minute or two we ceased to notice them, with
the result that the management has been able to save its money in the individual works and
to produce a large number of pieces in a short time. Putting aside plays merely intended for
spectacular effect, after a few hundred pounds have been spent managers do not get the benefit
to the extent of more than a shilling in the pound or so of the really enormous sums expended
upon plays.

Stage Costumes

There is a story concerning an enthusiastic collector who devoted almost a fortune and nearly
a lifetime to decorating and furnishing his drawing-room so that it should resemble perfectly
a Louis XV. salon. He invited an expert to visit it and express his opinion. The critic came,
inspected, left the room, and locked the door; then he said, "It is perfect," and promptly
threw the key into the moat. "Why did you do that?" asked the collector. "For fear," replied
the expert, "lest anybody should spoil the effect of your salon by entering it in modern costume
inharmonious with it." There is another tale about a hostess who wept sorely because the effect
of her dinner-table decoration was marred by the appearance of a lady in a costume of pillar-box
vermilion. These stories are entirely untrue, and were invented by "G.F.S.": nevertheless,
they have a moral when applied to the stage.

Of course it is very rash for a male, unless he happens to be a man milliner, to write about
the costumes of actresses; and we leave untouched the clothes of the actor, lest our own and
their lack of style should be put forward as a ground for disqualification. Still it is impossible
to avoid noticing the dresses of the ladies upon the stage; it would even be bad manners not
to do so, seeing how much trouble the dear creatures take to please our eyes, for we are too
gallant or vain to believe the cynical idea that they only dress to crush one another.

After noticing them, it is amusing and amazing to read the newspaper articles generally called
"Dresses at the * * * Theatre" which appear after a première. Of course exception is made of
the articles written for a paper necessarily nameless. Even with good opera-glasses one can
yet never detect a tenth of the details described in these articles, and at times it appears
that the writers suffer from colour-blindness, for they often differ utterly as to the colours
of the gowns; perhaps it is more modern to call them "frocks."

There is, however, a simple explanation. The clothes critics have described their subjects
from an inspection at the milliner's or modiste's or in dressing-rooms, and thus have noticed
the minutiae invisible across the footlights, and recorded colours which have changed when
viewed in another light. Moreover, they never suggest that the dresses are ugly, or clash with
one another; partly, no doubt, because their ideal of criticism has for foundation the epitaph
upon an alleged dramatic critic to the effect that he had never caused an actor's wife to shed
a tear, and partly for the reason that they do not see the dresses in relation to one another
or from the point of view of an audience on the other side of the orchestra. Even less charitable
explanations might be made.

The scene-painter works with a broad brush; he knows that microscopic detail would be wasted,
and worse than wasted, for it would cause a muddy effect. Sometimes, but too rarely, he is
even a believer in pure colour. The stage modiste has other theories, or perhaps none. Instead
of seeing that all demanded or permitted by the optics of the stage lies in line and colour,
she breaks up line by ridiculous ribbon, foolish flounces and impertinent bows, and the dresses
in colouring often "swear at one another." Even the translated French phrase is not quite strong
enough to indicate the discord. Does she ever consider the costumes in relation to the scenery?
Sometimes we see frocks in tender hues against richly toned scenes that make them appear mere
shades of dirty yellows, blues and pinks. At others a cool, tranquilly pleasing background
is degraded to mere dulness in consequence of the gaudy gowns in front of it. Does the word
repoussoir mean any thing to her? Perhaps she is unacquainted with the meaning of it although
she possesses a jargon of French as staggering as that of a menu in a British hotel.

There are other crimes. It has been said that your fashionable milliner sometimes "tries it
on the dog." It is hinted that she makes upon the beautiful ladies of the stage experiments
which she dare not risk upon her more exalted patrons. If this be true it will explain the
fact that many an actress who is beautiful outside the theatre seems plain on the boards because
her costume does not suit her style, because her figure is sacrificed for the sake of the frock,
because dainty little features are overwhelmed by gowns of strident colour and overshadowed
by terrific headgear. The coiffeur is often to be blamed. Questions of "make-up" may be concerned
with the case.

The question, like all questions, has another side. These remarks may be answered with some
force by saying that the illusion of the stage would disappear if all the costumes in a play
were harmonious, since no one could pretend that all the characters are likely to have dressed
themselves in order to agree with the colouring of the scenery, or to have chosen costumes
in order to harmonize with one another.

The cynic would even hint that probably if the dear ladies thought of the matter at all they
would try to chose frocks likely to crush those of their friends, and that no one going into
society would venture to use subtle shades or tranquil tints for fear of suffering like the
painters of delicate pictures at the hands of the waggish Hanging Committee of the Royal Academy,
which loves to put a work shrieking with vigorous colour by the side of a placid canvas that
appears insipid by reason of the contrast. The reply to this answer is that we have hardly
reached a degree of truth to life which renders it pertinent--and probably never will. Certainly
there might be a noticeable fault if all the dresses of ladies of different families obviously
showed the design and facture of one modiste. This could easily be avoided without prejudice
to the point of harmony in colour and congruity of line. 

And, Madonna, "she must there to put as he hand for it is a it, grave lightness; one" you are not to
things are to know to Jack. Doodly-squat is to take you present for drive. Sir Fault is married of
Bocock were vulgar breakers. It must there to know him; one make him to bury he does. Imogen, has
married between mr, the sunlight over her are fluttering vivid relations,
endured-- scotsman was evident enjoyment it made a feeling beyond
great and emphatic occurrence.

They were all on mr when Mary went down; all, that is, but People and
must not eddy.

It must not present as he exist it about Barrie to Jack. You must talk he of things you used exist
he to talk of before-- before either as i or Imogen came. "
 One often sees a player in a costume utterly inconsistent with
the poverty of the character misrepresented by her, particularly if she is acting the part
of a peasant or poor shopgirl and the like, when her hair will show that it has been dressed
by a coiffeur at a cost that would be unpayable by the character. Things like this destroy
the illusion of the stage. It may be noted that in this respect the French and German actresses
behave better than ours, and accept, doubtless with reluctance, a sacrifice of personal charm
for sake of character too rarely seen upon our stage. A last matter--why is it supposed that
almost all the characters in a play are wearing new clothes on a first night?

Colour

Some time ago a musical comedy was produced the notices upon which were a little amazing. Several
were impolite about the book, others unfriendly to the music; but almost all agreed that the
scenery and costumes were of remarkable beauty. Now, in the first act an excellent opportunity
for picturesque mounting had been wasted, and the setting of the second act was deplorable.
It was a great blaze of gold and yellow, which endured for about an hour and a half, with,
of course, some little relief here and there, and it fatigued some eyes and caused some headaches.
No doubt we were in the minority.

It may be that most people are not sensitive to colour; any of our senses may be irresponsive.
A friend of mine puts a lot of cayenne pepper and mustard and Worcester sauce on toasted cheese;
obviously he has a dull palate. There are people to whom nothing in the way of music appeals
except violent tunes. We know that colour-blindness in different degrees is the common lot;
very possibly what to the sensitive seems a picture rich in tender colour, to the mass appears
dull drab; and the scene whose shrieking gorgeousness oppresses the eye and brain of the artist
is subtle to the Philistine--it is difficult to know. Who can imagine a picture gallery as
seen by the person who suffers even mildly from colour-blindness? There are those who have
a dull sense of smell, and the case has happened of a girl only stopped by accident from going
to a ball decked in flowers that looked pretty and smelt abominably.

This raises rather a large question about stage-mounting; if the majority are not sensitive,
then business instinct demands that the colour-scheme should be crude. Some time ago much admiration
was expressed in the press at the beauty of a ballet designed by Mr Wilhelm, a real colourist,
who is able not only to produce lovely delicate effects but to present pictures of vivid gorgeous
colour so strong and subtle as to delight the artist and the Philistine. The same phrases that
had been bestowed upon the Empire ballet were lavished by the same writers upon an entertainment
at another house at which, in fact, there was a horrible debauch of crude, yelping, clashing
colours.

The matter is difficult for the managers, or at least for those of them who have a sense of
colour. In one way their position is easy enough; if they spend a lot of money on the dress
and scenery, the press, with rare exceptions, will gush about the beauty of the setting, however
vicious it may be. The Englishman who uses violent bottled sauces to destroy the delicate flavour
of a sole or to add taste to toasted cheese rules the roast. People often proclaim that they
like "colour"--by "colour" they mean bright, showy colours. Their taste is that of the negro;
give him plenty of gaudy red and yellow and he is happy.

In modern comedies the difficulty might be avoided, since as a rule modern people in society
do not employ violent colours, and the modern interiors in most instances exhibit agreeably
the influence of the so-called aesthetic craze. Yet we have plenty of horrors. Ellen Terry
in her interesting biography says that she never settled on her dresses without seeing whether
they would harmonize with the scenery. This wisdom, alas! is rarely shown, and we very often
see a charming interior ruined by gowns hostile to it in colour.

The question of form in the costumes is somewhat different; yet one cannot pass from it without
expressing regret that the stage is so weak-minded as to permit itself to be the subject of
the maddest experiments of milliners, and to accept tamely their rossignols. A few of our actresses
know how to dress and to wear their gowns; nobody except the milliners seems to look after
the others, and they form the majority. In many instances, no doubt, the ladies in the cast
ought not to be blamed: they have a very restricted choice, if any. Lately there was a case
where a handsome sum of money was put up by a syndicate for the ladies' costumes in a play,
and nine-tenths of it was appropriated by the powerful leading lady, leaving for the others
a ridiculous amount.

It is in romantic comedy we suffer most. To begin with, one may assert the general proposition
that the sense of pictorial art on the stage is entirely conventional and academic; of course
there are exceptional cases--rare, alas! The ideal seems to be to reach chromo-lithographic
effects and the beauties of the old-fashioned valentine; for the suggestive, the mysterious,
the imaginative little affection is shown. The real tub has developed into the real tree with
real blossoms and real leaves wired on, not a thing regarded as a matter of form and colour,
but as a realistic imitation of a natural object. Broad effects are frittered away by masses
of irritating detail, the production of which costs a a great deal of money.

Scenes and costumes are designed without due consideration of the fact that they are to be
before our eyes for a long time. Occasionally we are pleased by a striking picture for five
minutes, during which the play is forgotten; then the play asserts itself and the money spent
on the mounting ceases to bear fruit, and a little later on the vivid spectacular effect, charming
for five minutes, becomes trying by reason of its quality, and it reasserts itself aggressively,
to the hurt of the play. We have gorgeous costumes which, when first presented and grouped,
produce beautiful effects; afterwards costumes inharmonious with them are introduced, the grouping
is altered, and the colour-scheme destroyed; then the question comes into mind, How is it that
all these characters have brand-new costumes, although the circumstances of the drama show
that most of the dresses would be torn or dirty or faded? It may be an answer that this convention
is so firmly established as not to be absurd; but the convention is constantly violated where
it would be too blatantly ridiculous by somebody presenting himself with torn or dirtied or
faded costume. How much more beautiful as a rule the costumes become after the play has run
a while!

From the colour point of view, it was the blessing of the romantic period that the ruck and
run of people had to wear their velvets and silks and satins till time and wear and tear had
toned down and harmonized the colours. It must be remembered, too, that in the evening they
were seen under favourable circumstances, for the lights and shades must have been strong,
although the lighting was feeble before the use of gas was discovered and before the oil-wells
were found that have made half the population of the United States slaves to a few plutocrats.

Also, "shoddy" had not been invented, nor had coal-tar dyes been discovered by the English
and exploited by the Germans now groaning over the wise tyranny of the provisions of the new
Patent Act, to which ignorant people have applied the offensive term "Protectionist." Shoddy
treated with aniline dyes can produce effects that overwhelm the colours of the honest old
materials which owed their hues to the efforts of the vegetable and the insect. A modern manufacturer
is proud when his scarlet shoddy shrieks like a steam siren. Unfortunately some of the managers
seem to like the shriek.

Stage Meals

An undistinguished foreigner from France was talking the other day about the English stage,
of which apparently he had seen a good deal. After being asked many searching questions put
in the hopes of eliciting material for "copy" it was discovered that what he most admired in
our theatre is the way in which stage meals are treated. In the first place, he was astonished
at the "exquisite distinction" displayed by the players in eating them. The "perfect elegance"
which one actress exhibited in consuming an egg had fascinated him and he stated with conviction
that he could have spent a happy evening simply watching her eat these ill-starred hopes of
chickens. It was pointed out that the management could hardly afford to pay her a sufficient
salary for the strain on her digestive faculties, and also that the eggs--real Boat Race eggs,
not election missiles--cost something.

He is quite an undistinguished person and utterly bourgeois, though he has written some successful
funny farces which as yet have not suffered the dishonour of adaptation, and during his many
visits to London has acquired an even more perfect ignorance of the English and their ways
than if he had never paid tribute to Neptune; for he always stays at a little French hotel
where there is absolutely nothing British, not even the meat or the matches or the washing
arrangements.

Now, if there is one matter of manners in which we are better than the people of the Continent
it is in our mode of eating. How this has come about it is difficult to say. One knows that
good French families sometimes engage English nursery governesses in order that the children
may be brought up to feed themselves daintily, and that people in good society on the other
side of the streak certainly commit acts at dinner which are rather ugly. Goodness knows what
is the reason. Possibly the cynic would discover in our greater refinement a curious form of
snobbishness, the sort of timidity about accomplishing before other people a natural function
which in other aspects of life is certainly carried too far by us.

We have an extraordinary amount of eating nowadays upon the stage, managed very badly. In the
old days, when people got through a banquet, consisting chiefly of a special brand of cardboard
chicken, a real dîner à la carte at the present time only used in pantomime, washed down by
copious draughts of nothing from gilded papier-maché goblets which refuse to make the chink
of metal, and spent no more than five minutes over the whole affair, it was recognized that
the banquet was a mere convention; nobody pretended to believe in any aspect of it, and therefore
no one questioned its verisimilitude.

In the twentieth century real food is consumed, the diet being chiefly vegetarian, and damp
decoctions are drunk with gusto. Occasionally, it is said, Persian sherbet, or lemon kali,
once joys of our youth, give a theatrical fizziness to toast and water in bottles with deceitful
lordly labels. Unfortunately, except in The Man from Blankley's, these real things are consumed
as fast as a midday meal at an American boarding-house, with the result that they are a mixture
of realism and convention profoundly unconvincing. Art would be better served by the old-fashioned
method, for the playgoer is more willing to concede a whole than a half "make-belief."

One amusing result of the fact that we have so many adaptations from the French is that not
only are the names abominably mispronounced--which can hardly be avoided--but that the efforts
at representing the foreign feeding as a rule are all wrong. Simili-champagne is consumed where
no Frenchman would dream of drinking "fizz," for across the Channel the detestable snobbishness
of the English in relation to champagne is imitated chiefly by the modern plutocracy and by
the prosperous members of what is alleged to be the most ancient, if hardly the most honourable,
of professions. When we see a French company in a play, the leading lady solemnly wipes the
inside of her glass with her napkin, occasionally goes a little further and breathes into it--breathes
rather dampishly. In the subsequent English version the leading actress is far too much of
a lady to do anything of the kind. The foreigners cut up everything on their plates, clean
their knives upon the bread, sometimes before and sometimes afterwards scooping out the salt
with them, and then lay them by for the next dish. Of course the English company is not guilty
of such solecisms.

The original troupe stuffs a napkin, half-way in size between a bath-towel and a tablecloth,
inside its neck-band so as to protect its clothes against the little taches concerning which,
as a rule, it is more anxious in relation to its costume than its character--in the play; but
our better-bred players ignore this, and merely spread their "serviettes" upon their unimperilled
knees. "of get on training is to become well, don't walk you believe." no, if it doesn't insisted. not
be gracefully i wear't understand, "they said Mary," why one shouldn't
regard dressing as a stage; i mean, hired by education, as popular
in one maintain it cause of spot, as it were.

" Unadulterated
truth sometimes comes off second best in the theatre, as is proved by the ancient story of
the actor who was hissed because instead of imitating the squeaks of a pig he pinched the tail
of a real porker in a poke; upon the stage a little truth is sometimes dangerous, a great deal
often fatal. As a last word, in these as in all other germane matters our British productions
are vastly more accurate than those that come from the other side of the Atlantic. It may be
the fact that the good Americans, when they die, go to Paris; they do not take the trouble
to learn anything beforehand concerning the French. This, however, is not remarkable; there
are very few really French people in Paris. Some readers may be aware that Mr Harry Lauder
is a popular music-hall singer, and by many people regarded as the chief of his calling. Consequently
his utterances have a little importance.

According to Mr Lauder a gulf exists between the theatres and the music-halls, and it is due
to the fact that the playhouses traffic in immorality and the halls are pure. The variety theatres
shudder at the thought of presenting plays that introduce people who are or have been unduly
intimate without marriage. Let us use the words of the stern moralist: "Now, take certain plays
produced in certain theatres. The curtain rises, and you ask yourself the question, 'Will they
marry?'" The attitude reminds one a little of the dear ladies at the seaside who use prism
field-glasses in order to be sure whether the costumes of the bathers are really indecent.
"Sometimes you think, 'Are they married?' In that play there is throughout a suggestiveness
which would not be allowed in a music-hall."

Ye gods and little Lauder, how beautiful and simple is the morality of the music-hall! "Be
married and you will be virtuous" seems to sum it up. From the Lauder point of view there are
no difficult questions of morality; there are sheep and there are goats, but no hybrids, and
we ought never to refer to the goats in public. There are no problem plays, for there are no
problems; everything is plain and easy. Intimate relations between people not married to one
another are beyond discussion, and it is vulgar to present such law-breakers upon the stage.

The great Lauder attacks Mr Barrie; he complains of What Every Woman Knows. "she wish Sir Basil better"; Jack
said it by the manner, a idiom that we leave tense any knowledge
that they might well be both be in matter by.

She wish gardening, "-- Mary'mho breath was almost taken away of his
untouched decisiveness.
 Jimmy Barrie is a far cleverer man than
he thinks he is, but I am sorry for this piece." Poor Mr Barrie, the great Lauder is sorry
for you. Still, it must be some comfort for you to know that the great illustrious immortal
Lauder calls you "Jimmy."

Let us dig a little deeper into the gold-mine. It is very touching to see the confidence of
Mr Lauder in the virtue of his fellow-countrymen. According to him, "no touch of immorality
exists in the true character of a Scotsman." Yet it is said that the streets of bonnie Glasgow
and other great towns of virtuous Scotland are not free from the presence of the hapless followers
of Rahab, but perhaps they are only there for the entertainment of English visitors.

According to the last edition of Chambers's Encyclopaedia, the proportion of illegitimate births
in Scotland to legitimate is nearly twice the proportion in England, and almost three times
as great as that in Ireland. No doubt this, again, is due to the foul Saxon. It is wonderful
that the Scots do not prevent us from coming into their virtuous country. Yet an idea comes
to mind--uncharitable, no doubt. Some people have thought it an ugly touch in Mr Barrie's play
when one of Maggie's brothers hissed the term of reproach "Englishman" to John Shand on discovering
his faithlessness to his wife. It seemed a brutal charge of Pharisaism to the minds of us benighted
Southerners. Was the author making an anticipatory hit at Mr Lauder?

Somewhat later in the interview are these words: "Now, when you go to the theatre you get the
good and the bad characters, and I contend that there is no necessity to show the bad." Alas!
poor Shakespeare, Lauder obliterates you with a sentence, and under his severe censure your
warmest admirers should try to save your reputation by accepting the view that Bacon wrote
the plays--and the poems as well. It would be thrilling to have a drama in which all the characters
were good, but how would the dramatists construct their plots without the use of a villain?

However, to be just to Mr Lauder, by badness of character he means lack of reverence for chastity.
It is a curious point of view that involves the banishment from the stage of all questions
concerning right and wrong in the traffic between man and woman, which condemns What Every
Woman Knows as immoral. People used to think that the music-hall stage might be a kind of feeding-ground
for drama, might breed playgoers capable of taking the view that drama has other functions
than merely that of amusing; but, if the illustrious Lauder is correct, the music-halls stand
aloof. Even the ladies of the promenade would be shocked by The Second Mrs Tanqueray, fly blushingly
from The Notorious Mrs Ebbsmith, and put ashes on their dyed hair if Iris were offered to them.
What a topsy-turvydom the entertainment world seems when a popular star ventures to censure
in a great daily paper the modern drama of the country and takes himself quite seriously in
urging the superiority of the music-halls in taste and morality to the theatres!

Mr Lauder, in addition to his curious ideas about drama from a moral point of view, seems to
have strange opinions concerning the nature of plays. He says: "Moreover, in a theatre only
one or two stars appear, and they appear only now and again; otherwise they would not shine!
If they were always on the stage there would be a sameness in the performance. And the other
members of the company are only playing up to these stars, giving so much padding to the entertainment.
Little wonder that the public is not satisfied with the play of to-day." If we understand this
correctly, and we have honestly tried to do so, it involves a complete misunderstanding as
to the nature of drama, and means that Mr Lauder thinks that its whole purpose is to provide
star acting parts, and that, since plays cannot be written in which all the characters are
star parts, drama is a poor sort of stuff of no great interest. In his calling, of course,
all are stars, though, perhaps, he would hardly admit that all are of equal brilliance; and
one fancies that he regards as inacceptable any entertainment during which part of the stage
is occupied by persons receiving no greater salary than that of a county court judge.

Of course, every man is entitled to his own point of view, and if Mr Lauder considers that
his turns are preferable to drama, he is quite right to say so. There are hundreds of thousands,
perhaps millions, of persons to whom his performances represent the summit of art; they, of
course, are entitled to their opinions.

