THE WERE-WOLF

by

CLEMENCE HOUSMAN

With Six Illustrations by Laurence Housman

1896

TO THE DEAR MEMORY OF E.W.P.

"YOU WILL THINK OF ME SOMETIMES, MY DEAR?"

LIST OF PLATES

Holy Water Rol's Worship White Fell's Escape The Race The Finish Sweyn's Finding

THE WERE-WOLF

The great farm hall was ablaze with the fire-light, and noisy with laughter and talk and many-sounding
work. None could be idle but the very young and the very old: little Rol, who was hugging a
puppy, and old Trella, whose palsied hand fumbled over her knitting. The early evening had
closed in, and the farm-servants, come from their outdoor work, had assembled in the ample
hall, which gave space for a score or more of workers. Several of the men were engaged in carving,
and to these were yielded the best place and light; others made or repaired fishing-tackle
and harness, and a great seine net occupied three pairs of hands. Of the women most were sorting
and mixing eider feather and chopping straw to add to it. Looms were there, though not in present
use, but three wheels whirred emulously, and the finest and swiftest thread of the three ran
between the fingers of the house-mistress. Near her were some children, busy too, plaiting
wicks for candles and lamps. Each group of workers had a lamp in its centre, and those farthest
from the fire had live heat from two braziers filled with glowing wood embers, replenished
now and again from the generous hearth. But the flicker of the great fire was manifest to remotest
corners, and prevailed beyond the limits of the weaker lights.

Little Rol grew tired of his puppy, dropped it incontinently, and made an onslaught on Tyr,
the old wolf-hound, who basked dozing, whimpering and twitching in his hunting dreams. Prone
went Rol beside Tyr, his young arms round the shaggy neck, his curls against the black jowl.
Tyr gave a perfunctory lick, and stretched with a sleepy sigh. Rol growled and rolled and shoved
invitingly, but could only gain from the old dog placid toleration and a half-observant blink.
"Take that then!" said Rol, indignant at this ignoring of his advances, and sent the puppy
sprawling against the dignity that disdained him as playmate. The dog took no notice, and the
child wandered off to find amusement elsewhere.

The baskets of white eider feathers caught his eye far off in a distant corner. He slipped
under the table, and crept along on all-fours, the ordinary common-place custom of walking
down a room upright not being to his fancy. When close to the women he lay still for a moment
watching, with his elbows on the floor and his chin in his palms. One of the women seeing him
nodded and smiled, and presently he crept out behind her skirts and passed, hardly noticed,
from one to another, till he found opportunity to possess himself of a large handful of feathers.
With these he traversed the length of the room, under the table again, and emerged near the
spinners. At the feet of the youngest he curled himself round, sheltered by her knees from
the observation of the others, and disarmed her of interference by secretly displaying his
handful with a confiding smile. A dubious nod satisfied him, and presently he started on the
play he had devised. He took a tuft of the white down, and gently shook it free of his fingers
close to the whirl of the wheel. The wind of the swift motion took it, spun it round and round
in widening circles, till it floated above like a slow white moth. Little Rol's eyes danced,
and the row of his small teeth shone in a silent laugh of delight. Another and another of the
white tufts was sent whirling round like a winged thing in a spider's web, and floating clear
at last. Presently the handful failed.

Rol sprawled forward to survey the room, and contemplate another journey under the table. His
shoulder, thrusting forward, checked the wheel for an instant; he shifted hastily. The wheel
flew on with a jerk, and the thread snapped. "Naughty Rol!" said the girl. The swiftest wheel
stopped also, and the house-mistress, Rol's aunt, leaned forward, and sighting the low curly
head, gave a warning against mischief, and sent him off to old Trella's corner.

Rol obeyed, and after a discreet period of obedience, sidled out again down the length of the
room farthest from his aunt's eye. As he slipped in among the men, they looked up to see that
their tools might be, as far as possible, out of reach of Rol's hands, and close to their own.
Nevertheless, before long he managed to secure a fine chisel and take off its point on the
leg of the table. The carver's strong objections to this disconcerted Rol, who for five minutes
thereafter effaced himself under the table.

During this seclusion he contemplated the many pairs of legs that surrounded him, and almost
shut out the light of the fire. How very odd some of the legs were: some were curved where
they should be straight, some were straight where they should be curved, and, as Rol said to
himself, "they all seemed screwed on differently." Some were tucked away modestly under the
benches, others were thrust far out under the table, encroaching on Rol's own particular domain.
He stretched out his own short legs and regarded them critically, and, after comparison, favourably.
Why were not all legs made like his, or like his?

These legs approved by Rol were a little apart from the rest. He crawled opposite and again
made comparison. His face grew quite solemn as he thought of the innumerable days to come before
his legs could be as long and strong. He hoped they would be just like those, his models, as
straight as to bone, as curved as to muscle.

A few moments later Sweyn of the long legs felt a small hand caressing his foot, and looking
down, met the upturned eyes of his little cousin Rol. Lying on his back, still softly patting
and stroking the young man's foot, the child was quiet and happy for a good while. He watched
the movement of the strong deft hands, and the shifting of the bright tools. Now and then,
minute chips of wood, puffed off by Sweyn, fell down upon his face. At last he raised himself,
very gently, lest a jog should wake impatience in the carver, and crossing his own legs round
Sweyn's ankle, clasping with his arms too, laid his head against the knee. Such act is evidence
of a child's most wonderful hero-worship. Quite content was Rol, and more than content when
Sweyn paused a minute to joke, and pat his head and pull his curls. Quiet he remained, as long
as quiescence is possible to limbs young as his. Sweyn forgot he was near, hardly noticed when
his leg was gently released, and never saw the stealthy abstraction of one of his tools.

Ten minutes thereafter was a lamentable wail from low on the floor, rising to the full pitch
of Rol's healthy lungs; for his hand was gashed across, and the copious bleeding terrified
him. Then was there soothing and comforting, washing and binding, and a modicum of scolding,
till the loud outcry sank into occasional sobs, and the child, tear-stained and subdued, was
returned to the chimney-corner settle, where Trella nodded.

In the reaction after pain and fright, Rol found that the quiet of that fire-lit corner was
to his mind. Tyr, too, disdained him no longer, but, roused by his sobs, showed all the concern
and sympathy that a dog can by licking and wistful watching. A little shame weighed also upon
his spirits. He wished he had not cried quite so much. He remembered how once Sweyn had come
home with his arm torn down from the shoulder, and a dead bear; and how he had never winced
nor said a word, though his lips turned white with pain. Poor little Rol gave another sighing
sob over his own faint-hearted shortcomings.

The light and motion of the great fire began to tell strange stories to the child, and the
wind in the chimney roared a corroborative note now and then. The great black mouth of the
chimney, impending high over the hearth, received as into a mysterious gulf murky coils of
smoke and brightness of aspiring sparks; and beyond, in the high darkness, were muttering and
wailing and strange doings, so that sometimes the smoke rushed back in panic, and curled out
and up to the roof, and condensed itself to invisibility among the rafters. And then the wind
would rage after its lost prey, and rush round the house, rattling and shrieking at window
and door.

In a lull, after one such loud gust, Rol lifted his head in surprise and listened. A lull had
also come on the babel of talk, and thus could be heard with strange distinctness a sound outside
the door--the sound of a child's voice, a child's hands. "Open, open; let me in!" piped the
little voice from low down, lower than the handle, and the latch rattled as though a tiptoe
child reached up to it, and soft small knocks were struck. One near the door sprang up and
opened it. "No one is here," he said. Tyr lifted his head and gave utterance to a howl, loud,
prolonged, most dismal.

Sweyn, not able to believe that his ears had deceived him, got up and went to the door. It
was a dark night; the clouds were heavy with snow, that had fallen fitfully when the wind lulled.
Untrodden snow lay up to the porch; there was no sight nor sound of any human being. Sweyn
strained his eyes far and near, only to see dark sky, pure snow, and a line of black fir trees
on a hill brow, bowing down before the wind. "It must have been the wind," he said, and closed
the door.

Many faces looked scared. The sound of a child's voice had been so distinct--and the words
"Open, open; let me in!" The wind might creak the wood, or rattle the latch, but could not
speak with a child's voice, nor knock with the soft plain blows that a plump fist gives. And
the strange unusual howl of the wolf-hound was an omen to be feared, be the rest what it might.
Strange things were said by one and another, till the rebuke of the house-mistress quelled
them into far-off whispers. For a time after there was uneasiness, constraint, and silence;
then the chill fear thawed by degrees, and the babble of talk flowed on again.

Yet half-an-hour later a very slight noise outside the door sufficed to arrest every hand,
every tongue. Every head was raised, every eye fixed in one direction. "It is Christian; he
is late," said Sweyn.

No, no; this is a feeble shuffle, not a young man's tread. With the sound of uncertain feet
came the hard tap-tap of a stick against the door, and the high-pitched voice of eld, "Open,
open; let me in!" Again Tyr flung up his head in a long doleful howl.

Before the echo of the tapping stick and the high voice had fairly died away, Sweyn had sprung
across to the door and flung it wide. "No one again," he said in a steady voice, though his
eyes looked startled as he stared out. He saw the lonely expanse of snow, the clouds swagging
low, and between the two the line of dark fir-trees bowing in the wind. He closed the door
without a word of comment, and re-crossed the room.

A score of blanched faces were turned to him as though he must be solver of the enigma. He
could not be unconscious of this mute eye-questioning, and it disturbed his resolute air of
composure. He hesitated, glanced towards his mother, the house-mistress, then back at the frightened
folk, and gravely, before them all, made the sign of the cross. There was a flutter of hands
as the sign was repeated by all, and the dead silence was stirred as by a huge sigh, for the
held breath of many was freed as though the sign gave magic relief.

Even the house-mistress was perturbed. She left her wheel and crossed the room to her son,
and spoke with him for a moment in a low tone that none could overhear. But a moment later
her voice was high-pitched and loud, so that all might benefit by her rebuke of the "heathen
chatter" of one of the girls. Perhaps she essayed to silence thus her own misgivings and forebodings.

No other voice dared speak now with its natural fulness. Low tones made intermittent murmurs,
and now and then silence drifted over the whole room. The handling of tools was as noiseless
as might be, and suspended on the instant if the door rattled in a gust of wind. After a time
Sweyn left his work, joined the group nearest the door, and loitered there on the pretence
of giving advice and help to the unskilful.

A man's tread was heard outside in the porch. "Christian!" said Sweyn and his mother simultaneously,
he confidently, she authoritatively, to set the checked wheels going again. But Tyr flung up
his head with an appalling howl.

"Open, open; let me in!"

It was a man's voice, and the door shook and rattled as a man's strength beat against it. Sweyn
could feel the planks quivering, as on the instant his hand was upon the door, flinging it
open, to face the blank porch, and beyond only snow and sky, and firs aslant in the wind.

He stood for a long minute with the open door in his hand. The bitter wind swept in with its
icy chill, but a deadlier chill of fear came swifter, and seemed to freeze the beating of hearts.
Sweyn stepped back to snatch up a great bearskin cloak.

"Sweyn, where are you going?"

"No farther than the porch, mother," and he stepped out and closed the door.

He wrapped himself in the heavy fur, and leaning against the most sheltered wall of the porch,
steeled his nerves to face the devil and all his works. No sound of voices came from within;
the most distinct sound was the crackle and roar of the fire.

It was bitterly cold. His feet grew numb, but he forbore stamping them into warmth lest the
sound should strike panic within; nor would he leave the porch, nor print a foot-mark on the
untrodden white that declared so absolutely how no human voices and hands could have approached
the door since snow fell two hours or more ago. "When the wind drops there will be more snow,"
thought Sweyn.

For the best part of an hour he kept his watch, and saw no living thing--heard no unwonted
sound. "I will freeze here no longer," he muttered, and re-entered.

One woman gave a half-suppressed scream as his hand was laid on the latch, and then a gasp
of relief as he came in. No one questioned him, only his mother said, in a tone of forced unconcern,
"Could you not see Christian coming?" as though she were made anxious only by the absence of
her younger son. Hardly had Sweyn stamped near to the fire than clear knocking was heard at
the door. Tyr leapt from the hearth, his eyes red as the fire, his fangs showing white in the
black jowl, his neck ridged and bristling; and overleaping Rol, ramped at the door, barking
furiously.

Outside the door a clear mellow voice was calling. Tyr's bark made the words undistinguishable.

No one offered to stir towards the door before Sweyn.

He stalked down the room resolutely, lifted the latch, and swung back the door.

A white-robed woman glided in.

No wraith! Living--beautiful--young.

Tyr leapt upon her.

Lithely she baulked the sharp fangs with folds of her long fur robe, and snatching from her
girdle a small two-edged axe, whirled it up for a blow of defence.

Sweyn caught the dog by the collar, and dragged him off yelling and struggling.

The stranger stood in the doorway motionless, one foot set forward, one arm flung up, till
the house-mistress hurried down the room; and Sweyn, relinquishing to others the furious Tyr,
turned again to close the door, and offer excuse for so fierce a greeting. Then she lowered
her arm, slung the axe in its place at her waist, loosened the furs about her face, and shook
over her shoulders the long white robe--all as it were with the sway of one movement.

She was a maiden, tall and very fair. The fashion of her dress was strange, half masculine,
yet not unwomanly. A fine fur tunic, reaching but little below the knee, was all the skirt
she wore; below were the cross-bound shoes and leggings that a hunter wears. A white fur cap
was set low upon the brows, and from its edge strips of fur fell lappet-wise about her shoulders;
two of these at her entrance had been drawn forward and crossed about her throat, but now,
loosened and thrust back, left unhidden long plaits of fair hair that lay forward on shoulder
and breast, down to the ivory-studded girdle where the axe gleamed.

Sweyn and his mother led the stranger to the hearth without question or sign of curiosity,
till she voluntarily told her tale of a long journey to distant kindred, a promised guide unmet,
and signals and landmarks mistaken.

"Alone!" exclaimed Sweyn in astonishment. "Have you journeyed thus far, a hundred leagues, alone?"

She answered "Yes" with a little smile.

"Over the hills and the wastes! Why, the folk there are savage and wild as beasts."

She dropped her hand upon her axe with a laugh of some scorn.

"I fear neither man nor beast; some few fear me." And then she told strange tales of fierce
attack and defence, and of the bold free huntress life she had led.

Her words came a little slowly and deliberately, as though she spoke in a scarce familiar tongue;
now and then she hesitated, and stopped in a phrase, as though for lack of some word.

She became the centre of a group of listeners. The interest she excited dissipated, in some
degree, the dread inspired by the mysterious voices. There was nothing ominous about this young,
bright, fair reality, though her aspect was strange.

Little Rol crept near, staring at the stranger with all his might. Unnoticed, he softly stroked
and patted a corner of her soft white robe that reached to the floor in ample folds. He laid
his cheek against it caressingly, and then edged up close to her knees.

"What is your name?" he asked.

The stranger's smile and ready answer, as she looked down, saved Rol from the rebuke merited
by his unmannerly question.

"My real name," she said, "would be uncouth to your ears and tongue. The folk of this country
have given me another name, and from this" (she laid her hand on the fur robe) "they call me
'White Fell.'"

Little Rol repeated it to himself, stroking and patting as before. "White Fell, White Fell."

The fair face, and soft, beautiful dress pleased Rol. He knelt up, with his eyes on her face
and an air of uncertain determination, like a robin's on a doorstep, and plumped his elbows
into her lap with a little gasp at his own audacity.

"Rol!" exclaimed his aunt; but, "Oh, let him!" said White Fell, smiling and stroking his head;
and Rol stayed.

He advanced farther, and panting at his own adventurousness in the face of his aunt's authority,
climbed up on to her knees. Her welcoming arms hindered any protest. He nestled happily, fingering
the axe head, the ivory studs in her girdle, the ivory clasp at her throat, the plaits of fair
hair; rubbing his head against the softness of her fur-clad shoulder, with a child's full confidence
in the kindness of beauty.

White Fell had not uncovered her head, only knotted the pendant fur loosely behind her neck.
Rol reached up his hand towards it, whispering her name to himself, "White Fell, White Fell,"
then slid his arms round her neck, and kissed her--once--twice. She laughed delightedly, and
kissed him again.

"The child plagues you?" said Sweyn.

"No, indeed," she answered, with an earnestness so intense as to seem disproportionate to the
occasion.

Rol settled himself again on her lap, and began to unwind the bandage bound round his hand.
He paused a little when he saw where the blood had soaked through; then went on till his hand
was bare and the cut displayed, gaping and long, though only skin deep. He held it up towards
White Fell, desirous of her pity and sympathy.

At sight of it, and the blood-stained linen, she drew in her breath suddenly, clasped Rol to
her--hard, hard--till he began to struggle. Her face was hidden behind the boy, so that none
could see its expression. It had lighted up with a most awful glee.

Afar, beyond the fir-grove, beyond the low hill behind, the absent Christian was hastening
his return. From daybreak he had been afoot, carrying notice of a bear hunt to all the best
hunters of the farms and hamlets that lay within a radius of twelve miles. Nevertheless, having
been detained till a late hour, he now broke into a run, going with a long smooth stride of
apparent ease that fast made the miles diminish.

He entered the midnight blackness of the fir-grove with scarcely slackened pace, though the
path was invisible; and passing through into the open again, sighted the farm lying a furlong
off down the slope. Then he sprang out freely, and almost on the instant gave one great sideways
leap, and stood still. There in the snow was the track of a great wolf.

His hand went to his knife, his only weapon. He stooped, knelt down, to bring his eyes to the
level of a beast, and peered about; his teeth set, his heart beat a little harder than the
pace of his running insisted on. A solitary wolf, nearly always savage and of large size, is
a formidable beast that will not hesitate to attack a single man. This wolf-track was the largest
Christian had ever seen, and, so far as he could judge, recently made. It led from under the
fir-trees down the slope. Well for him, he thought, was the delay that had so vexed him before:
well for him that he had not passed through the dark fir-grove when that danger of jaws lurked
there. Going warily, he followed the track.

It led down the slope, across a broad ice-bound stream, along the level beyond, making towards
the farm. A less precise knowledge had doubted, and guessed that here might have come straying
big Tyr or his like; but Christian was sure, knowing better than to mistake between footmark
of dog and wolf.

Straight on--straight on towards the farm.

Surprised and anxious grew Christian, that a prowling wolf should dare so near. He drew his
knife and pressed on, more hastily, more keen-eyed. Oh that Tyr were with him!

Straight on, straight on, even to the very door, where the snow failed. His heart seemed to
give a great leap and then stop. There the track ended.

Nothing lurked in the porch, and there was no sign of return. The firs stood straight against
the sky, the clouds lay low; for the wind had fallen and a few snowflakes came drifting down.
In a horror of surprise, Christian stood dazed a moment: then he lifted the latch and went
in. His glance took in all the old familiar forms and faces, and with them that of the stranger,
fur-clad and beautiful. The awful truth flashed upon him: he knew what she was.

Only a few were startled by the rattle of the latch as he entered. The room was filled with
bustle and movement, for it was the supper hour, when all tools were laid aside, and trestles
and tables shifted. Christian had no knowledge of what he said and did; he moved and spoke
mechanically, half thinking that soon he must wake from this horrible dream. Sweyn and his
mother supposed him to be cold and dead-tired, and spared all unnecessary questions. And he
found himself seated beside the hearth, opposite that dreadful Thing that looked like a beautiful
girl; watching her every movement, curdling with horror to see her fondle the child Rol.

Sweyn stood near them both, intent upon White Fell also; but how differently! She seemed unconscious
of the gaze of both--neither aware of the chill dread in the eyes of Christian, nor of Sweyn's
warm admiration.

These two brothers, who were twins, contrasted greatly, despite their striking likeness. They
were alike in regular profile, fair brown hair, and deep blue eyes; but Sweyn's features were
perfect as a young god's, while Christian's showed faulty details. Thus, the line of his mouth
was set too straight, the eyes shelved too deeply back, and the contour of the face flowed
in less generous curves than Sweyn's. Their height was the same, but Christian was too slender
for perfect proportion, while Sweyn's well-knit frame, broad shoulders, and muscular arms,
made him pre-eminent for manly beauty as well as for strength. As a hunter Sweyn was without
rival; as a fisher without rival. All the countryside acknowledged him to be the best wrestler,
rider, dancer, singer. Only in speed could he be surpassed, and in that only by his younger
brother. All others Sweyn could distance fairly; but Christian could outrun him easily. Ay,
he could keep pace with Sweyn's most breathless burst, and laugh and talk the while. Christian
took little pride in his fleetness of foot, counting a man's legs to be the least worthy of
his members. He had no envy of his brother's athletic superiority, though to several feats
he had made a moderate second. He loved as only a twin can love--proud of all that Sweyn did,
content with all that Sweyn was; humbly content also that his own great love should not be
so exceedingly returned, since he knew himself to be so far less love-worthy.

Christian dared not, in the midst of women and children, launch the horror that he knew into
words. He waited to consult his brother; but Sweyn did not, or would not, notice the signal
he made, and kept his face always turned towards White Fell. Christian drew away from the hearth,
unable to remain passive with that dread upon him.

"Where is Tyr?" he said suddenly. Then, catching sight of the dog in a distant corner, "Why
is he chained there?"

"He flew at the stranger," one answered.

Christian's eyes glowed. "Yes?" he said, interrogatively.

"He was within an ace of having his brain knocked out."

"Tyr?"

"Yes; she was nimbly up with that little axe she has at her waist. It was well for old Tyr
that his master throttled him off."

Christian went without a word to the corner where Tyr was chained. The dog rose up to meet
him, as piteous and indignant as a dumb beast can be. He stroked the black head. "Good Tyr!
brave dog!"

They knew, they only; and the man and the dumb dog had comfort of each other.

Christian's eyes turned again towards White Fell: Tyr's also, and he strained against the length
of the chain. Christian's hand lay on the dog's neck, and he felt it ridge and bristle with
the quivering of impotent fury. Then he began to quiver in like manner, with a fury born of
reason, not instinct; as impotent morally as was Tyr physically. Oh! the woman's form that
he dare not touch! Anything but that, and he with Tyr would be free to kill or be killed.

Then he returned to ask fresh questions.

"How long has the stranger been here?"

"She came about half-an-hour before you."

"Who opened the door to her?"

"Sweyn: no one else dared."

The tone of the answer was mysterious.

"Why?" queried Christian. "Has anything strange happened? Tell me."

For answer he was told in a low undertone of the summons at the door thrice repeated without
human agency; and of Tyr's ominous howls; and of Sweyn's fruitless watch outside.

Christian turned towards his brother in a torment of impatience for a word apart. The board
was spread, and Sweyn was leading White Fell to the guest's place. This was more awful: she
would break bread with them under the roof-tree!

He started forward, and touching Sweyn's arm, whispered an urgent entreaty. Sweyn stared, and
shook his head in angry impatience.

Thereupon Christian would take no morsel of food.

His opportunity came at last. White Fell questioned of the landmarks of the country, and of
one Cairn Hill, which was an appointed meeting-place at which she was due that night. The house-mistress
and Sweyn both exclaimed.

"It is three long miles away," said Sweyn; "with no place for shelter but a wretched hut. Stay
with us this night, and I will show you the way to-morrow."

White Fell seemed to hesitate. "Three miles," she said; "then I should be able to see or hear
a signal."

"I will look out," said Sweyn; "then, if there be no signal, you must not leave us."

He went to the door. Christian rose silently, and followed him out.

"Sweyn, do you know what she is?"

Sweyn, surprised at the vehement grasp, and low hoarse voice, made answer:

"She? Who? White Fell?"

"Yes."

"She is the most beautiful girl I have ever seen."

"She is a Were-Wolf."

Sweyn burst out laughing. "Are you mad?" he asked.

"No; here, see for yourself."

Christian drew him out of the porch, pointing to the snow where the footmarks had been. Had
been, for now they were not. Snow was falling fast, and every dint was blotted out.

"Well?" asked Sweyn.

"Had you come when I signed to you, you would have seen for yourself."

"Seen what?"

"The footprints of a wolf leading up to the door; none leading away."

It was impossible not to be startled by the tone alone, though it was hardly above a whisper.
Sweyn eyed his brother anxiously, but in the darkness could make nothing of his face. Then
he laid his hands kindly and re-assuringly on Christian's shoulders and felt how he was quivering
with excitement and horror.

"One sees strange things," he said, "when the cold has got into the brain behind the eyes;
you came in cold and worn out."

"No," interrupted Christian. "I saw the track first on the brow of the slope, and followed
it down right here to the door. This is no delusion."

Sweyn in his heart felt positive that it was. Christian was given to day-dreams and strange
fancies, though never had he been possessed with so mad a notion before.

"Don't you believe me?" said Christian desperately. "You must. I swear it is sane truth. Are
you blind? Why, even Tyr knows."

"You will be clearer headed to-morrow after a night's rest. Then come too, if you will, with
White Fell, to the Hill Cairn; and if you have doubts still, watch and follow, and see what
footprints she leaves."

Galled by Sweyn's evident contempt Christian turned abruptly to the door. Sweyn caught him back.

"What now, Christian? What are you going to do?"

"You do not believe me; my mother shall."

Sweyn's grasp tightened. "You shall not tell her," he said authoritatively.

Customarily Christian was so docile to his brother's mastery that it was now a surprising thing
when he wrenched himself free vigorously, and said as determinedly as Sweyn, "She shall know!"
but Sweyn was nearer the door and would not let him pass.

"There has been scare enough for one night already. If this notion of yours will keep, broach
it to-morrow." Christian would not yield.

"Women are so easily scared," pursued Sweyn, "and are ready to believe any folly without shadow
of proof. Be a man, Christian, and fight this notion of a Were-Wolf by yourself."

"If you would believe me," began Christian.

"I believe you to be a fool," said Sweyn, losing patience. "Another, who was not your brother,
might believe you to be a knave, and guess that you had transformed White Fell into a Were-Wolf
because she smiled more readily on me than on you."

The jest was not without foundation, for the grace of White Fell's bright looks had been bestowed
on him, on Christian never a whit. Sweyn's coxcombery was always frank, and most forgiveable,
and not without fair colour.

"If you want an ally," continued Sweyn, "confide in old Trella. Out of her stores of wisdom,
if her memory holds good, she can instruct you in the orthodox manner of tackling a Were-Wolf.
If I remember aright, you should watch the suspected person till midnight, when the beast's
form must be resumed, and retained ever after if a human eye sees the change; or, better still,
sprinkle hands and feet with holy water, which is certain death. Oh! never fear, but old Trella
will be equal to the occasion."

Sweyn's contempt was no longer good-humoured; some touch of irritation or resentment rose at
this monstrous doubt of White Fell. But Christian was too deeply distressed to take offence.

"You speak of them as old wives' tales; but if you had seen the proof I have seen, you would
be ready at least to wish them true, if not also to put them to the test."

"Well," said Sweyn, with a laugh that had a little sneer in it, "put them to the test! I will
not object to that, if you will only keep your notions to yourself. Now, Christian, give me
your word for silence, and we will freeze here no longer."

Christian remained silent.

Sweyn put his hands on his shoulders again and vainly tried to see his face in the darkness.

"We have never quarrelled yet, Christian?"

"I have never quarrelled," returned the other, aware for the first time that his dictatorial
brother had sometimes offered occasion for quarrel, had he been ready to take it.

"Well," said Sweyn emphatically, "if you speak against White Fell to any other, as to-night
you have spoken to me--we shall."

He delivered the words like an ultimatum, turned sharp round, and re-entered the house. Christian,
more fearful and wretched than before, followed.

"Snow is falling fast: not a single light is to be seen."

White Fell's eyes passed over Christian without apparent notice, and turned bright and shining
upon Sweyn.

"Nor any signal to be heard?" she queried. "Did you not hear the sound of a sea-horn?"

"I saw nothing, and heard nothing; and signal or no signal, the heavy snow would keep you here
perforce."

She smiled her thanks beautifully. And Christian's heart sank like lead with a deadly foreboding,
as he noted what a light was kindled in Sweyn's eyes by her smile.

That night, when all others slept, Christian, the weariest of all, watched outside the guest-chamber
till midnight was past. No sound, not the faintest, could be heard. Could the old tale be true
of the midnight change? What was on the other side of the door, a woman or a beast? he would
have given his right hand to know. Instinctively he laid his hand on the latch, and drew it
softly, though believing that bolts fastened the inner side. The door yielded to his hand;
he stood on the threshold; a keen gust of air cut at him; the window stood open; the room was
empty.

So Christian could sleep with a somewhat lightened heart.

In the morning there was surprise and conjecture when White Fell's absence was discovered.
Christian held his peace. Not even to his brother did he say how he knew that she had fled
before midnight; and Sweyn, though evidently greatly chagrined, seemed to disdain reference
to the subject of Christian's fears.

The elder brother alone joined the bear hunt; Christian found pretext to stay behind. Sweyn,
being out of humour, manifested his contempt by uttering not a single expostulation.

All that day, and for many a day after, Christian would never go out of sight of his home.
Sweyn alone noticed how he manoeuvred for this, and was clearly annoyed by it. White Fell's
name was never mentioned between them, though not seldom was it heard in general talk. Hardly
a day passed but little Rol asked when White Fell would come again: pretty White Fell, who
kissed like a snowflake. And if Sweyn answered, Christian would be quite sure that the light
in his eyes, kindled by White Fell's smile, had not yet died out.

Little Rol! Naughty, merry, fairhaired little Rol. A day came when his feet raced over the
threshold never to return; when his chatter and laugh were heard no more; when tears of anguish
were wept by eyes that never would see his bright head again: never again, living or dead.

He was seen at dusk for the last time, escaping from the house with his puppy, in freakish
rebellion against old Trella. Later, when his absence had begun to cause anxiety, his puppy
crept back to the farm, cowed, whimpering and yelping, a pitiful, dumb lump of terror, without
intelligence or courage to guide the frightened search.

Rol was never found, nor any trace of him. Where he had perished was never known; how he had
perished was known only by an awful guess--a wild beast had devoured him.

Christian heard the conjecture "a wolf"; and a horrible certainty flashed upon him that he
knew what wolf it was. He tried to declare what he knew, but Sweyn saw him start at the words
with white face and struggling lips; and, guessing his purpose, pulled him back, and kept him
silent, hardly, by his imperious grip and wrathful eyes, and one low whisper.

That Christian should retain his most irrational suspicion against beautiful White Fell was,
to Sweyn, evidence of a weak obstinacy of mind that would but thrive upon expostulation and
argument. But this evident intention to direct the passions of grief and anguish to a hatred
and fear of the fair stranger, such as his own, was intolerable, and Sweyn set his will against
it. Again Christian yielded to his brother's stronger words and will, and against his own judgment
consented to silence.

Repentance came before the new moon, the first of the year, was old. White Fell came again,
smiling as she entered, as though assured of a glad and kindly welcome; and, in truth, there
was only one who saw again her fair face and strange white garb without pleasure. Sweyn's face
glowed with delight, while Christian's grew pale and rigid as death. He had given his word
to keep silence; but he had not thought that she would dare to come again. Silence was impossible,
face to face with that Thing, impossible. Irrepressibly he cried out:

"Where is Rol?"

Not a quiver disturbed White Fell's face. She heard, yet remained bright and tranquil. Sweyn's
eyes flashed round at his brother dangerously. Among the women some tears fell at the poor
child's name; but none caught alarm from its sudden utterance, for the thought of Rol rose
naturally. Where was little Rol, who had nestled in the stranger's arms, kissing her; and watched
for her since; and prattled of her daily?

Christian went out silently. One only thing there was that he could do, and he must not delay.
His horror overmastered any curiosity to hear White Fell's smooth excuses and smiling apologies
for her strange and uncourteous departure; or her easy tale of the circumstances of her return;
or to watch her bearing as she heard the sad tale of little Rol.

The swiftest runner of the country-side had started on his hardest race: little less than three
leagues and back, which he reckoned to accomplish in two hours, though the night was moonless
and the way rugged. He rushed against the still cold air till it felt like a wind upon his
face. The dim homestead sank below the ridges at his back, and fresh ridges of snowlands rose
out of the obscure horizon-level to drive past him as the stirless air drove, and sink away
behind into obscure level again. He took no conscious heed of landmarks, not even when all
sign of a path was gone under depths of snow. His will was set to reach his goal with unexampled
speed; and thither by instinct his physical forces bore him, without one definite thought to guide.

And the idle brain lay passive, inert, receiving into its vacancy restless siftings of past
sights and sounds: Rol, weeping, laughing, playing, coiled in the arms of that dreadful Thing:
Tyr--O Tyr!--white fangs in the black jowl: the women who wept on The foolish puppy, precious
for the child's last touch: footprints from pine wood to door: the smiling face among furs,
of such womanly beauty--smiling--smiling: and Sweyn's face.

"Sweyn, Sweyn, O Sweyn, my brother!"

Sweyn's angry laugh possessed his ear within the sound of the wind of his speed; Sweyn's scorn
assailed more quick and keen than the biting cold at his throat. And yet he was unimpressed
by any thought of how Sweyn's anger and scorn would rise, if this errand were known.

Sweyn was a sceptic. His utter disbelief in Christian's testimony regarding the footprints
was based upon positive scepticism. His reason refused to bend in accepting the possibility
of the supernatural materialised. That a living beast could ever be other than palpably bestial--pawed,
toothed, shagged, and eared as such, was to him incredible; far more that a human presence
could be transformed from its god-like aspect, upright, free-handed, with brows, and speech,
and laughter. The wild and fearful legends that he had known from childhood and then believed,
he regarded now as built upon facts distorted, overlaid by imagination, and quickened by superstition.
Even the strange summons at the threshold, that he himself had vainly answered, was, after
the first shock of surprise, rationally explained by him as malicious foolery on the part of
some clever trickster, who withheld the key to the enigma.

To the younger brother all life was a spiritual mystery, veiled from his clear knowledge by
the density of flesh. Since he knew his own body to be linked to the complex and antagonistic
forces that constitute one soul, it seemed to him not impossibly strange that one spiritual
force should possess divers forms for widely various manifestation. Nor, to him, was it great
effort to believe that as pure water washes away all natural foulness, so water, holy by consecration,
must needs cleanse God's world from that supernatural evil Thing. Therefore, faster than ever
man's foot had covered those leagues, he sped under the dark, still night, over the waste,
trackless snow-ridges to the far-away church, where salvation lay in the holy-water stoup at
the door. His faith was as firm as any that wrought miracles in days past, simple as a child's
wish, strong as a man's will.

He was hardly missed during these hours, every second of which was by him fulfilled to its
utmost extent by extremest effort that sinews and nerves could attain. Within the homestead
the while, the easy moments went bright with words and looks of unwonted animation, for the
kindly, hospitable instincts of the inmates were roused into cordial expression of welcome
and interest by the grace and beauty of the returned stranger.

But Sweyn was eager and earnest, with more than a host's courteous warmth. The impression that
at her first coming had charmed him, that had lived since through memory, deepened now in her
actual presence. Sweyn, the matchless among men, acknowledged in this fair White Fell a spirit
high and bold as his own, and a frame so firm and capable that only bulk was lacking for equal
strength. Yet the white skin was moulded most smoothly, without such muscular swelling as made
his might evident. Such love as his frank self-love could concede was called forth by an ardent
admiration for this supreme stranger. More admiration than love was in his passion, and therefore
he was free from a lover's hesitancy and delicate reserve and doubts. Frankly and boldly he
courted her favour by looks and tones, and an address that came of natural ease, needless of
skill by practice.

Nor was she a woman to be wooed otherwise. Tender whispers and sighs would never gain her ear;
but her eyes would brighten and shine if she heard of a brave feat, and her prompt hand in
sympathy fall swiftly on the axe-haft and clasp it hard. That movement ever fired Sweyn's admiration
anew; he watched for it, strove to elicit it, and glowed when it came. Wonderful and beautiful
was that wrist, slender and steel-strong; also the smooth shapely hand, that curved so fast
and firm, ready to deal instant death.

Desiring to feel the pressure of these hands, this bold lover schemed with palpable directness,
proposing that she should hear how their hunting songs were sung, with a chorus that signalled
hands to be clasped. So his splendid voice gave the verses, and, as the chorus was taken up,
he claimed her hands, and, even through the easy grip, felt, as he desired, the strength that
was latent, and the vigour that quickened the very fingertips, as the song fired her, and her
voice was caught out of her by the rhythmic swell, and rang clear on the top of the closing surge.

Afterwards she sang alone. For contrast, or in the pride of swaying moods by her voice, she
chose a mournful song that drifted along in a minor chant, sad as a wind that dirges:

  "Oh, let me go!
  Around spin wreaths of snow;
  The dark earth sleeps below.

  "Far up the plain
  Moans on a voice of pain:
  'Where shall my babe be lain?'

  "In my white breast
  Lay the sweet life to rest!
  Lay, where it can lie best!

  "'Hush! hush its cries!
  Dense night is on the skies:
  Two stars are in thine eyes.'

  "Come, babe, away!
  But lie thou till dawn be grey,
  Who must be dead by day.

  "This cannot last;
  But, ere the sickening blast,
  All sorrow shall be past;

  "And kings shall be
  Low bending at thy knee,
  Worshipping life from thee.

  "For men long sore
  To hope of what's before,--
  To leave the things of yore.

  "Mine, and not thine,
  How deep their jewels shine!
  Peace laps thy head, not mine."

Old Trella came tottering from her corner, shaken to additional palsy by an aroused memory.
She strained her dim eyes towards the singer, and then bent her head, that the one ear yet
sensible to sound might avail of every note. At the close, groping forward, she murmured with
the high-pitched quaver of old age:

"So she sang, my Thora; my last and brightest. What is she like, she whose voice is like my
dead Thora's? Are her eyes blue?"

"Blue as the sky."

"So were my Thora's! Is her hair fair, and in plaits to the waist?" "Even so," answered White
Fell herself, and met the advancing hands with her own, and guided them to corroborate her
words by touch.

"Like my dead Thora's," repeated the old woman; and then her trembling hands rested on the
fur-clad shoulders, and she bent forward and kissed the smooth fair face that White Fell upturned,
nothing loth, to receive and return the caress.

So Christian saw them as he entered.

He stood a moment. After the starless darkness and the icy night air, and the fierce silent
two hours' race, his senses reeled on sudden entrance into warmth, and light, and the cheery
hum of voices. A sudden unforeseen anguish assailed him, as now first he entertained the possibility
of being overmatched by her wiles and her daring, if at the approach of pure death she should
start up at bay transformed to a terrible beast, and achieve a savage glut at the last. He
looked with horror and pity on the harmless, helpless folk, so unwitting of outrage to their
comfort and security. The dreadful Thing in their midst, that was veiled from their knowledge
by womanly beauty, was a centre of pleasant interest. There, before him, signally impressive,
was poor old Trella, weakest and feeblest of all, in fond nearness. And a moment might bring
about the revelation of a monstrous horror--a ghastly, deadly danger, set loose and at bay,
in a circle of girls and women and careless defenceless men: so hideous and terrible a thing
as might crack the brain, or curdle the heart stone dead.

And he alone of the throng prepared!

For one breathing space he faltered, no longer than that, while over him swept the agony of
compunction that yet could not make him surrender his purpose.

He alone? Nay, but Tyr also; and he crossed to the dumb sole sharer of his knowledge.

So timeless is thought that a few seconds only lay between his lifting of the latch and his
loosening of Tyr's collar; but in those few seconds succeeding his first glance, as lightning-swift
had been the impulses of others, their motion as quick and sure. Sweyn's vigilant eye had darted
upon him, and instantly his every fibre was alert with hostile instinct; and, half divining,
half incredulous, of Christian's object in stooping to Tyr, he came hastily, wary, wrathful,
resolute to oppose the malice of his wild-eyed brother.

But beyond Sweyn rose White Fell, blanching white as her furs, and with eyes grown fierce and
wild. She leapt down the room to the door, whirling her long robe closely to her. "Hark!" she
panted. "The signal horn! Hark, I must go!" as she snatched at the latch to be out and away.

For one precious moment Christian had hesitated on the half-loosened collar; for, except the
womanly form were exchanged for the bestial, Tyr's jaws would gnash to rags his honour of manhood.
Then he heard her voice, and turned--too late.

As she tugged at the door, he sprang across grasping his flask, but Sweyn dashed between, and
caught him back irresistibly, so that a most frantic effort only availed to wrench one arm
free. With that, on the impulse of sheer despair, he cast at her with all his force. The door
swung behind her, and the flask flew into fragments against it. Then, as Sweyn's grasp slackened,
and he met the questioning astonishment of surrounding faces, with a hoarse inarticulate cry:
"God help us all!" he said. "She is a Were-Wolf."

Sweyn turned upon him, "Liar, coward!" and his hands gripped his brother's throat with deadly
force, as though the spoken word could be killed so; and as Christian struggled, lifted him
clear off his feet and flung him crashing backward. So furious was he, that, as his brother
lay motionless, he stirred him roughly with his foot, till their mother came between, crying
shame; and yet then he stood by, his teeth set, his brows knit, his hands clenched, ready to
enforce silence again violently, as Christian rose staggering and bewildered.

But utter silence and submission were more than he expected, and turned his anger into contempt
for one so easily cowed and held in subjection by mere force. "He is mad!" he said, turning
on his heel as he spoke, so that he lost his mother's look of pained reproach at this sudden
free utterance of what was a lurking dread within her.

Christian was too spent for the effort of speech. His hard-drawn breath laboured in great sobs;
his limbs were powerless and unstrung in utter relax after hard service. Failure in his endeavour
induced a stupor of misery and despair. In addition was the wretched humiliation of open violence
and strife with his brother, and the distress of hearing misjudging contempt expressed without
reserve; for he was aware that Sweyn had turned to allay the scared excitement half by imperious
mastery, half by explanation and argument, that showed painful disregard of brotherly consideration.
All this unkindness of his twin he charged upon the fell Thing who had wrought this their first
dissension, and, ah! most terrible thought, interposed between them so effectually, that Sweyn
was wilfully blind and deaf on her account, resentful of interference, arbitrary beyond reason.

Dread and perplexity unfathomable darkened upon him; unshared, the burden was overwhelming:
a foreboding of unspeakable calamity, based upon his ghastly discovery, bore down upon him,
crushing out hope of power to withstand impending fate.

Sweyn the while was observant of his brother, despite the continual check of finding, turn
and glance when he would, Christian's eyes always upon him, with a strange look of helpless
distress, discomposing enough to the angry aggressor. "Like a beaten dog!" he said to himself,
rallying contempt to withstand compunction. Observation set him wondering on Christian's exhausted
condition. The heavy labouring breath and the slack inert fall of the limbs told surely of
unusual and prolonged exertion. And then why had close upon two hours' absence been followed
by open hostility against White Fell?

Suddenly, the fragments of the flask giving a clue, he guessed all, and faced about to stare
at his brother in amaze. He forgot that the motive scheme was against White Fell, demanding
derision and resentment from him; that was swept out of remembrance by astonishment and admiration
for the feat of speed and endurance. In eagerness to question he inclined to attempt a generous
part and frankly offer to heal the breach; but Christian's depression and sad following gaze
provoked him to self-justification by recalling the offence of that outrageous utterance against
White Fell; and the impulse passed. Then other considerations counselled silence; and afterwards
a humour possessed him to wait and see how Christian would find opportunity to proclaim his
performance and establish the fact, without exciting ridicule on account of the absurdity of
the errand.

This expectation remained unfulfilled. Christian never attempted the proud avowal that would
have placed his feat on record to be told to the next generation.

That night Sweyn and his mother talked long and late together, shaping into certainty the suspicion
that Christian's mind had lost its balance, and discussing the evident cause. For Sweyn, declaring
his own love for White Fell, suggested that his unfortunate brother, with a like passion, they
being twins in loves as in birth, had through jealousy and despair turned from love to hate,
until reason failed at the strain, and a craze developed, which the malice and treachery of
madness made a serious and dangerous force.

So Sweyn theorised, convincing himself as he spoke; convincing afterwards others who advanced
doubts against White Fell; fettering his judgment by his advocacy, and by his staunch defence
of her hurried flight silencing his own inner consciousness of the unaccountability of her action.

But a little time and Sweyn lost his vantage in the shock of a fresh horror at the homestead.
Trella was no more, and her end a mystery. The poor old woman crawled out in a bright gleam
to visit a bed-ridden gossip living beyond the fir-grove. Under the trees she was last seen,
halting for her companion, sent back for a forgotten present. Quick alarm sprang, calling every
man to the search. Her stick was found among the brushwood only a few paces from the path,
but no track or stain, for a gusty wind was sifting the snow from the branches, and hid all
sign of how she came by her death.

So panic-stricken were the farm folk that none dared go singly on the search. Known danger
could be braced, but not this stealthy Death that walked by day invisible, that cut off alike
the child in his play and the aged woman so near to her quiet grave.

"Rol she kissed; Trella she kissed!" So rang Christian's frantic cry again and again, till
Sweyn dragged him away and strove to keep him apart, albeit in his agony of grief and remorse
he accused himself wildly as answerable for the tragedy, and gave clear proof that the charge
of madness was well founded, if strange looks and desperate, incoherent words were evidence enough.

But thenceforward all Sweyn's reasoning and mastery could not uphold White Fell above suspicion.
He was not called upon to defend her from accusation when Christian had been brought to silence
again; but he well knew the significance of this fact, that her name, formerly uttered freely
and often, he never heard now: it was huddled away into whispers that he could not catch.

The passing of time did not sweep away the superstitious fears that Sweyn despised. He was
angry and anxious; eager that White Fell should return, and, merely by her bright gracious
presence, reinstate herself in favour; but doubtful if all his authority and example could
keep from her notice an altered aspect of welcome; and he foresaw clearly that Christian would
prove unmanageable, and might be capable of some dangerous outbreak.

For a time the twins' variance was marked, on Sweyn's part by an air of rigid indifference,
on Christian's by heavy downcast silence, and a nervous apprehensive observation of his brother.
Superadded to his remorse and foreboding, Sweyn's displeasure weighed upon him intolerably,
and the remembrance of their violent rupture was a ceaseless misery. The elder brother, self-sufficient
and insensitive, could little know how deeply his unkindness stabbed. A depth and force of
affection such as Christian's was unknown to him. The loyal subservience that he could not
appreciate had encouraged him to domineer; this strenuous opposition to his reason and will
was accounted as furious malice, if not sheer insanity.

Christian's surveillance galled him incessantly, and embarrassment and danger he foresaw as
the outcome. Therefore, that suspicion might be lulled, he judged it wise to make overtures
for peace. Most easily done. A little kindliness, a few evidences of consideration, a slight
return of the old brotherly imperiousness, and Christian replied by a gratefulness and relief
that might have touched him had he understood all, but instead, increased his secret contempt.

So successful was this finesse, that when, late on a day, a message summoning Christian to
a distance was transmitted by Sweyn, no doubt of its genuineness occurred. When, his errand
proved useless, he set out to return, mistake or misapprehension was all that he surmised.
Not till he sighted the homestead, lying low between the night-grey snow ridges, did vivid
recollection of the time when he had tracked that horror to the door rouse an intense dread,
and with it a hardly-defined suspicion.

His grasp tightened on the bear-spear that he carried as a staff; every sense was alert, every
muscle strung; excitement urged him on, caution checked him, and the two governed his long
stride, swiftly, noiselessly, to the climax he felt was at hand.

As he drew near to the outer gates, a light shadow stirred and went, as though the grey of
the snow had taken detached motion. A darker shadow stayed and faced Christian, striking his
life-blood chill with utmost despair.

Sweyn stood before him, and surely, the shadow that went was White Fell.

They had been together--close. Had she not been in his arms, near enough for lips to meet?

There was no moon, but the stars gave light enough to show that Sweyn's face was flushed and
elate. The flush remained, though the expression changed quickly at sight of his brother. How,
if Christian had seen all, should one of his frenzied outbursts be met and managed: by resolution?
by indifference? He halted between the two, and as a result, he swaggered.

"White Fell?" questioned Christian, hoarse and breathless.

"Yes?"

Sweyn's answer was a query, with an intonation that implied he was clearing the ground for action.

From Christian came: "Have you kissed her?" like a bolt direct, staggering Sweyn by its sheer
prompt temerity.

He flushed yet darker, and yet half-smiled over this earnest of success he had won. Had there
been really between himself and Christian the rivalry that he imagined, his face had enough
of the insolence of triumph to exasperate jealous rage.

"You dare ask this!"

"Sweyn, O Sweyn, I must know! You have!"

The ring of despair and anguish in his tone angered Sweyn, misconstruing it. Jealousy urging
to such presumption was intolerable.

"Mad fool!" he said, constraining himself no longer. "Win for yourself a woman to kiss. Leave
mine without question. Such an one as I should desire to kiss is such an one as shall never
allow a kiss to you."

Then Christian fully understood his supposition.

"I--I!" he cried. "White Fell--that deadly Thing! Sweyn, are you blind, mad? I would save you
from her: a Were-Wolf!"

Sweyn maddened again at the accusation--a dastardly way of revenge, as he conceived; and instantly,
for the second time, the brothers were at strife violently.

But Christian was now too desperate to be scrupulous; for a dim glimpse had shot a possibility
into his mind, and to be free to follow it the striking of his brother was a necessity. Thank
God! he was armed, and so Sweyn's equal.

Facing his assailant with the bear-spear, he struck up his arms, and with the butt end hit
hard so that he fell. The matchless runner leapt away on the instant, to follow a forlorn hope.
Sweyn, on regaining his feet, was as amazed as angry at this unaccountable flight. He knew
in his heart that his brother was no coward, and that it was unlike him to shrink from an encounter
because defeat was certain, and cruel humiliation from a vindictive victor probable. Of the
uselessness of pursuit he was well aware: he must abide his chagrin, content to know that his
time for advantage would come. Since White Fell had parted to the right, Christian to the left,
the event of a sequent encounter did not occur to him. And now Christian, acting on the dim
glimpse he had had, just as Sweyn turned upon him, of something that moved against the sky
along the ridge behind the homestead, was staking his only hope on a chance, and his own superlative
speed. If what he saw was really White Fell, he guessed she was bending her steps towards the
open wastes; and there was just a possibility that, by a straight dash, and a desperate perilous
leap over a sheer bluff, he might yet meet her or head her. And then: he had no further thought.

It was past, the quick, fierce race, and the chance of death at the leap; and he halted in
a hollow to fetch his breath and to look: did she come? had she gone?

She came.

She came with a smooth, gliding, noiseless speed, that was neither walking nor running; her
arms were folded in her furs that were drawn tight about her body; the white lappets from her
head were wrapped and knotted closely beneath her face; her eyes were set on a far distance.
So she went till the even sway of her going was startled to a pause by Christian.

"Fell!"

She drew a quick, sharp breath at the sound of her name thus mutilated, and faced Sweyn's brother.
Her eyes glittered; her upper lip was lifted, and shewed the teeth. The half of her name, impressed
with an ominous sense as uttered by him, warned her of the aspect of a deadly foe. Yet she
cast loose her robes till they trailed ample, and spoke as a mild woman.

"What would you?"

Then Christian answered with his solemn dreadful accusation:

"You kissed Rol--and Rol is dead! You kissed Trella: she is dead! You have kissed Sweyn, my
brother; but he shall not die!"

He added: "You may live till midnight."

The edge of the teeth and the glitter of the eyes stayed a moment, and her right hand also
slid down to the axe haft. Then, without a word, she swerved from him, and sprang out and away
swiftly over the snow.

And Christian sprang out and away, and followed her swiftly over the snow, keeping behind,
but half-a-stride's length from her side.

So they went running together, silent, towards the vast wastes of snow, where no living thing
but they two moved under the stars of night.

Never before had Christian so rejoiced in his powers. The gift of speed, and the training of
use and endurance were priceless to him now. Though midnight was hours away, he was confident
that, go where that Fell Thing would, hasten as she would, she could not outstrip him nor escape
from him. Then, when came the time for transformation, when the woman's form made no longer
a shield against a man's hand, he could slay or be slain to save Sweyn. He had struck his dear
brother in dire extremity, but he could not, though reason urged, strike a woman.

For one mile, for two miles they ran: White Fell ever foremost, Christian ever at equal distance
from her side, so near that, now and again, her out-flying furs touched him. She spoke no word;
nor he. She never turned her head to look at him, nor swerved to evade him; but, with set face
looking forward, sped straight on, over rough, over smooth, aware of his nearness by the regular
beat of his feet, and the sound of his breath behind.

In a while she quickened her pace. From the first, Christian had judged of her speed as admirable,
yet with exulting security in his own excelling and enduring whatever her efforts. But, when
the pace increased, he found himself put to the test as never had he been before in any race.
Her feet, indeed, flew faster than his; it was only by his length of stride that he kept his
place at her side. But his heart was high and resolute, and he did not fear failure yet.

So the desperate race flew on. Their feet struck up the powdery snow, their breath smoked into
the sharp clear air, and they were gone before the air was cleared of snow and vapour. Now
and then Christian glanced up to judge, by the rising of the stars, of the coming of midnight.
So long--so long!

White Fell held on without slack. She, it was evident, with confidence in her speed proving
matchless, as resolute to outrun her pursuer as he to endure till midnight and fulfil his purpose.
And Christian held on, still self-assured. He could not fail; he would not fail. To avenge
Rol and Trella was motive enough for him to do what man could do; but for Sweyn more. She had
kissed Sweyn, but he should not die too: with Sweyn to save he could not fail.

Never before was such a race as this; no, not when in old Greece man and maid raced together
with two fates at stake; for the hard running was sustained unabated, while star after star
rose and went wheeling up towards midnight, for one hour, for two hours.

Then Christian saw and heard what shot him through with fear. Where a fringe of trees hung
round a slope he saw something dark moving, and heard a yelp, followed by a full horrid cry,
and the dark spread out upon the snow, a pack of wolves in pursuit.

Of the beasts alone he had little cause for fear; at the pace he held he could distance them,
four-footed though they were. But of White Fell's wiles he had infinite apprehension, for how
might she not avail herself of the savage jaws of these wolves, akin as they were to half her
nature. She vouchsafed to them nor look nor sign; but Christian, on an impulse to assure himself
that she should not escape him, caught and held the back-flung edge of her furs, running still. 

Nor on this point the wise son of Sophroniscus makes the man the sufferer. "Neither," he says,
"can he who marries a wife tell if he shall have cause to rejoice thereat." He had most probably
at that moment Xantippe in his eye. You remember how pleasantly Addison, in the Spectator,
tells the story of a colony of women, who, disgusted with their wrongs,
had separated themselves from the men, and set up a government of
their own.

That there was a fierce war between them and the men-- that there was a truce to bury the dead
on either side-- that the prudent male general contrived that the
truce should be prolonged; and during the truce both armies had friendly
intercourse-- on some pretence or other the truce was still lengthened,
till there was not one woman in a condition, or with an inclination,
to take up her wrongs-- not one woman was any longer a fighting man-- they
saw their errors-- they did not, as the fable says we all do, cast
the burden of their own faults behind them, but bravely carried them
before them-- made peace, and were righted.

We would not, Eusebius, have all their wrongs righted-- so lovely is the moral beauty of their wonderful
patience in enduring them.

What-- if they were in a condition to legislate and impose upon us some of their burdens, or divide
them with us? What man of your acquaintance could turn dry-nurse-- tend even his own babes twelve
hours out of the twenty-four?

A pretty head-nurse would my Eusebius make in an orphan asylum. I should like to see you with
twins in your arms, both crying into your sensitive ears, and you utterly ignorant of their wants
and language. And I do think your condition will be almost as bad, if you publish your catalogue
of wrongs in your own name. By all means preserve an incognito.

You will be besieged with wrongs-- will be the only "Defender of the Faithful"-- not knight-errant,
for you may stay at home, and all will come to you for redress. You will be like the author, or
rather translator, of the Arabian Tales, whose window was nightly assailed, and slumber broken
in upon, by successive troops of children, crying "Monsieur Galland if you are not asleep,
get up-- come and tell us one of those pretty stories." Keep your secret. Now, the mention
of the Arabian Tales reminds me of Sinbad-- there is a true picture
of man's cowardice; what loathsome holes did he not creep into to
make his escape when the wife of his bosom was sick, and he understood
the law that he was to be buried with her.

It is all very well, in the sick chamber, for the husband to say
to his departing partner for life-- "Wait, my dearest-- I will go with
you."

She is sure, as La Fontaine says in his satire, reversing the case, "to take the journey alone."
This is all talk on the man's side-- but see what the master of the slave woman has actually
imposed upon her as a law. The Hindoo widow ascends the funeral pile, and is burnt rejoicing.
What male creature ever thought of enduring this for his wife?-- this
wrong, for it is a grievous wrong thus to tempt her superior fortitude.

It was not without reason that, in the heathen mythology, (and it
shows the great advancement of civilization when and wherever it was
conceived,) were deified all great and noble qualities in the image
of the sex.

What are Juno, Minerva, and Venus, but acknowledgments of the strength, wisdom, fortitude, beauty,
and love, of woman, while their male deities have but borrowed attributes and ambiguous characters?
It is a deference-- perhaps unintentionally, unconsciously-- paid to the sex, that in every
language the soul itself, and all its noblest virtues, and the personification of all virtue, are
feminine.

I supposed woman the legislatrix-- what reason have we to say she would enact a wrong? The story
of the mother of Papirius is not against her; for in that case there was only a choice of evils.
It is from Aulus Gellius, as having been told and written by M. Cato in the oration which he made
to the soldiers against Galba. The mother of young Papirius, who had accompanied his father into the
senate-house, as was usual formerly for sons to do who had taken the toga prætexta, enquired
of her son what the senate had been doing; the youth replied, that he had been enjoined silence.
This answer made her the more importunate and he adopted this humorous fallacy-- that it had been
discussed in the senate which would be most beneficial to the state,
for one man to have two wives, or for one woman to have two husbands?

Hearing this, she left the house in no small trepidation, and went to tell other matrons what
she had heard. The next day a troop of matrons went to the senate-house, and implored, with tears
in their eyes, that one woman might be suffered to have two husbands, rather than one man have
two wives. The senate honoured the young Papirius with a special law in his favour; they should
rather have conferred honour upon his mother and the other matrons for their disinterested virtue,
who were content to submit themselves to so great an evil, I may say wrong, as to have imposed
upon them two masters instead of one. Not that you, Eusebius, ever entertained an idea that women
are wronged by not being admitted to a share of legislation.

I will not suppose you to be that liberal fool. But you are aware that such a scheme has been, and
is still entertained. I believe there is a Miss Somebody now going about our towns, lecturing on
the subject, and she is probably worthy to be one of the company of the "Ecclesiagusæ." This idea
is not new.

The other day I hit upon a letter in the Gentleman's Magazine for the year 1740 on the subject,
by which you will see there was some amusement about it a century
ago:-- "TO CALEB D'ANVERS, Esq."

Sir,-- I am a mournful relict of five husbands, and the happy mother
of twenty-seven children, the tender pledges of our chaste embraces.

Had old Rome, instead of England, been the place of my nativity and
abode, what honours might I not have expected to my person, and immunities
to my fortune?

But I need not tell you that virtue of this sort meets with no encouragement in our northern
climate. Children, instead of freeing us from taxes increase the weight of them, and matrimony
is become the jest of every coxcomb.

Nor could I allow, till very lately, that an old bachelor, as you profess yourself to be, had any
just pretence to be called a patriot. Don't think that I mean to offer myself to you; for I
assure you that I have refused very advantageous proposals since the decease of my last poor
spouse, who hath been dead near five months. I have no design at present of altering my condition
again. Few women are so happy as to meet with five good husbands, and therefore I should be glad to devote the
remaining part of my life to the good of my country and family, in a more public and active station
than that of a wife, according to your late scheme for a septennial
administration of women. But I think you ought to have enforced your
project with some instances of illustrious females, who have appeared in the
foremost classes of life, not only for heroic valour, but likewise
for several branches of learning, wisdom, and policy-- such as Joan
of Naples, the Maid of Orleans, Catherine de Medicis, Margaret of
Mountfort, Madame Dacier, Mrs Behn, Mrs Manly, Mrs Stephens, Doctor
of Physic, Mrs Mapp, Surgeon, the valiant Mrs Ross, Dragoon, and the
learned Mrs Osborne, Politician.

I had almost forgot the present Queen of Spain, who hath not only an absolute ascendant over the
counsels of her husband, but hath often outwitted the greatest statesmen,
as they fancy themselves, of another kingdom, which hath already felt
the effects of her petticoat government. "If we look back into history,
a thousand more instances might be brought of the same kind; but I
think those already mentioned sufficient to prove, that the best capacities
of our sex are by no means inferior to the best capacities of yours;
and the triflers of either sex are not designed to be the subject
of this letter.

But much as our sex are obliged to you, in general, for your proposal, I have one material objection
against it; for I think you have carried the point a little too far, by excluding all males from the
enjoyment of any office, dignity, or employment; for as they have
long engrossed the public administration of the government to themselves,
(a few women only excepted,) I am apprehensive that they will be loth
to part with it, and that if they give us power for seven years, it
will be very difficult to get it out of our hands again.

I have, therefore, thought of the following expedient, which will almost answer the same purpose--
viz. that all power, both legislative and executive, ecclesiastical
and civil, may be divided among both sexes; and that they may be equally
capable of sitting in Parliament. Is it not absurd that women in England
should be capable of inheriting the crown, and yet not intrusted
with the representation of a little borough, or so much as allowed
to vote for a representative?

Is this consistent with the rights of a people, which certainly includes both men and women,
though the latter have been generally deprived of their privileges in all countries? I don't mean
that the people should be obliged to choose women only, as I said before, for that would be equally
hard upon the men-- but that the electors should be left at their own liberty; for it is certainly
a restraint upon the freedom of elections, that whatever regard a corporation may have for a
man of quality's family, if he happened to have no sons or brothers, they cannot testify their
esteem for it by choosing his daughters or sisters. I am for no restraint upon
the members of either sex; for if the honour, integrity, or great
capacity of a fine lady should recommend her to the intimacy or confidence
of a Prime Minister, in consequence of which he should get her a
place-- would it not be very hard that this very act of mutual friendship
must render her incapable of doing either him or her country any real
service in the senate-house?

Is freedom consistent with restraint? or can we propose to serve our country by obstructing
the natural operations of love and gratitude? I would not be understood to propose increasing
the number of members. Let every county or corporation choose a man or a woman, as they think proper;
and if either of the members should be married, let it be in the power of the constituents to return
both husband and wife as one member, but not to sit at the same time; from whence would accrue
great strength to our constitution, by having the house well attended,
without the present disagreeable method of frequent calls, and putting
several members to the expense and disgrace of being brought up to town
in the custody of messengers; for if a country gentleman should like fox-hunting,
or any other rural diversion, better than attending his duty in Parliament,
let him send up his wife.

Or if an officer in the army should be obliged to be at his post
in Ireland, the Mediterranean, the West Indies, or aboard the fleet,
a thousand leagues off, or upon any public embassy, if his wife should
happen to be chosen, never fear that she would do the nation's business,
full as well. Besides, in several affairs of great consequence, the resolutions
might perhaps be much more agreeable to the tenderness of our sex
than the roughness of yours.

As, for instance, it hath often been thought unnatural for soldiers to promote peace. When a debate,
therefore, of that sort should be to come on, if the soldiers staid at home, and their wives
attended, it would very well become the softness of the female sex to show a regard for their husbands;
especially if they should be such pretty, smart, young fellows, as make a most considerable figure
at a review." The lady writer goes on at some length, that she has a borough of her own, and will
be certainly returned whether she marries or not, and will act with
inflexible zeal, naïvely adding-- "If, therefore, I should hereafter
be put into a considerable employment, and fourteen of my sons be advanced
in the army; should the ministry provide for the other seven in the
Church, Excise Office, or Exchequer; and my poor girls, who are but
tender infants at the boarding-school, should have places given to
them in the Customs, which they might officiate by deputy-- don't
imagine that I am under any undue influence if I should happen always
to vote with the Ministry."

We do not quote further. The letter is signed "MARGERY WELDONE." It is needless to tell you the
wrong done to the sex by the rigour of modern law. You have stamped
the foot at it often enough. I mean, not so much the separation in the
whimsically-called union houses, for, as husbands go, they may have
little to complain of on that score; but that dire injustice which
throws upon woman the whole penalty of a mutual crime, of which the
instigator is always man.

Then, is she not injured by the legislative removal of the sanctity of marriage, by which the man is less
bound to her-- thinks less of the bond-- the vinculum matrimoniæ being, in his mind, one
of straw, to her one of iron.

And here, Eusebius, a difficulty presents itself which I do not remember ever to have seen
met, no, nor even noticed. How can a court ecclesiastical, which from its very constitution
and formula of marriage which it receives and sanctions-- that marriage is a Divine institution,
that man shall not put asunder those by this matrimony made one-- I ask, how can such a court deal with
cases where the people have not been put together by the only bond of matrimony which the church
can allow? But these are painful subjects, and I feel myself wading in deeper water than will be good
for one who can't swim without corks, though he be levior cortice;
and lighter than cork, too, will be the obligation on the man's side,
who has taken trusting woman to one of these registry houses, leaped
over a broomstick and called it a marriage. It will soon come to
the truth of the old saying, "The first month is the honeymoon or smick-smack,
the second is hither and thither; the third is thwick-thwack; the
fourth, the devil take them that brought thee and I together."

The great walking monster that does the great wrong to women is,
depend upon it, Eusebius, the "brute of a husband," called, by courtesy,
in higher life, "Sir John Brute."

Horace says wittily, that Venus puts together discordant persons and
minds with a bitter joke, "sævo mittere cum joco;" it begins a jest,
and ends a crying evil.

We name the thing that should be good, with an ambiguous sound that gives disagreement to the sense. It is
marry-age, or matter o'money. And let any man who is a euphonist, and takes omens from names,
attend the publication of banns, he will be quite shocked at the unharmonious combination. Now, you
will laugh when I tell you positively, that within a twelvemonth
I have heard called the banns of "John Smasher and Mary Smallbones;"
no doubt, by this time they are "marrow bones and cleaver," what else
could be expected?

Did you never note how it has puzzled curates to read the ill-assorted names? "Serpentes avibus
geminantur, tigribus agni." Then to look at the couples as they come to be
bound for life. One would think they had been shaken together hap-hazard,
each in a sack.

I have met with a quotation from Hermippus who says-- "There was at Lacedæmon a very retired hall
or dwelling, in which the unmarried girls and young bachelors were confined, till each of
the latter, in that obscurity which precluded the possibility of choice, fixed on one, which
he was obliged to take as a wife, without portion. Lysander having
abandoned that which fell to his lot, to marry another of greater beauty,
was condemned to pay a heavy fine." Is there not in the Spectator a
story or dream, where every man is obliged to choose a wife unseen,
tied up in a sack?

At this said Lacedæmon, by the by, women seem to have somewhat ruled the roast, and taken the law,
at least before marriage, into their own hands; for Clearchus Solensis, in his adages, reports,
that "at Lacedæmon, on a certain festival, the women dragged the unmarried men about the altar, and
beat them with their hands, in order that a sense of shame at the
indignity of this injury might excite in them a desire to have children
of their own to educate, and to choose wives at a proper season for
this purpose."

On--on--on--through the aching time, toiling and straining in the track of those two superb
runners, aware of the marvel of their endurance, but unaware of the marvel of their speed,
that, in the three hours before midnight had overpassed all that vast distance that he could
only traverse from twilight to twilight. For clear daylight was passing when he came to the
edge of an old marl-pit, and saw how the two who had gone before had stamped and trampled together
in desperate peril on the verge. And here fresh blood stains spoke to him of a valiant defence
against his infamous brother; and he followed where the blood had dripped till the cold had
staunched its flow, taking a savage gratification from this evidence that Christian had been
gashed deeply, maddening afresh with desire to do likewise more excellently, and so slake his
murderous hate. And he began to know that through all his despair he had entertained a germ
of hope, that grew apace, rained upon by his brother's blood.

He strove on as best he might, wrung now by an access of hope, now of despair, in agony to
reach the end, however terrible, sick with the aching of the toiled miles that deferred it.

And the light went lingering out of the sky, giving place to uncertain stars.

He came to the finish.

Two bodies lay in a narrow place. Christian's was one, but the other beyond not White Fell's.
There where the footsteps ended lay a great white wolf.

At the sight Sweyn's strength was blasted; body and soul he was struck down grovelling.

The stars had grown sure and intense before he stirred from where he had dropped prone. Very
feebly he crawled to his dead brother, and laid his hands upon him, and crouched so, afraid
to look or stir farther.

Cold, stiff, hours dead. Yet the dead body was his only shelter and stay in that most dreadful
hour. His soul, stripped bare of all sceptic comfort, cowered, shivering, naked, abject; and
the living clung to the dead out of piteous need for grace from the soul that had passed away.

He rose to his knees, lifting the body. "You are very kind, sir."

"I beg you, Mrs Mildred, not to mention it. It was a great shock to me to hear of Mr Mildred's death--
a man in the prime of life.

So very good-- so much respected."

"He was too good for this world, sir."

"Much, madam-- very much; and what a consolation for you, that he is gone to a better-- one more deserving
of him. You will feel this more as you find your duties recalling
you to active usefulness again."

The lady shook her head despairingly.

"I
hope, madam, we may be permitted to do all we can to alleviate your
forlorn condition. I am one of many who regard you with the deepest
sympathy. You may have heard my name, perhaps."

The lady bowed. The great grim jaws had a savage grin, though dead-stiff. And his kiss: he could
bear it no longer, and turned away, nor ever looked again.

And the dead man in his arms, knowing the full horror, had followed and faced it for his sake;
had suffered agony and death for his sake; in the neck was the deep death gash, one arm and
both hands were dark with frozen blood, for his sake! Dead he knew him, as in life he had not
known him, to give the right meed of love and worship. Because the outward man lacked perfection
and strength equal to his, he had taken the love and worship of that great pure heart as his
due; he, so unworthy in the inner reality, so mean, so despicable, callous, and contemptuous
towards the brother who had laid down his life to save him. He longed for utter annihilation,
that so he might lose the agony of knowing himself so unworthy such perfect love. The frozen
calm of death on the face appalled him. He dared not touch it with lips that had cursed so
lately, with lips fouled by kiss of the horror that had been death.

He struggled to his feet, still clasping Christian. The dead man stood upright within his arm,
frozen rigid. The eyes were not quite closed; the head had stiffened, bowed slightly to one
side; the arms stayed straight and wide. It was the figure of one crucified, the blood-stained
hands also conforming.

So living and dead went back along the track that one had passed in the deepest passion of
love, and one in the deepest passion of hate. All that night Sweyn toiled through the snow,
bearing the weight of dead Christian, treading back along the steps he before had trodden,
when he was wronging with vilest thoughts, and cursing with murderous hatred, the brother who
all the while lay dead for his sake.

Cold, silence, darkness encompassed the strong man bowed with the dolorous burden; and yet
he knew surely that that night he entered hell, and trod hell-fire along the homeward road,
and endured through it only because Christian was with him. And he knew surely that to him
Christian had been as Christ, and had suffered and died to save him from his sins.

