THE RUINS,

OR, MEDITATION ON THE REVOLUTIONS OF EMPIRES:

AND

THE LAW OF NATURE,

by C. F. VOLNEY,

COMTE ET PAIR DE FRANCE. COMMANDEUR DE LA LEGION D'HONNEUR, MEMBRE DE L'ACADEMIE FRANCAISE,
ET DE PLUSIEURS AUTRES SOCIETES SAVANTES.

DEPUTY TO THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF 1789, AND AUTHOR OF "TRAVELS IN EGYPT AND SYRIA," "NEW RESEARCHES
ON ANCIENT HISTORY," ETC.

TO WHICH IS ADDED

VOLNEY'S ANSWER TO DR. PRIESTLY, A BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE BY COUNT DARU, AND THE ZODIACAL SIGNS
AND CONSTELLATIONS BY THE EDITOR.

I will cherish in remembrance the love of man, I will employ myself on the means of effecting
good for him, and build my own happiness on the promotion of his.--Volney.

NEW YORK, TWENTIETH CENTURY PUB. CO., 4 WARREN ST. 1890.

PUBLISHER'S PREFACE.

Having recently purchased a set of stereotyped plates of Volney's Ruins, with a view of reprinting
the same, I found, on examination, that they were considerably worn by the many editions that
had been printed from them and that they greatly needed both repairs and corrections. A careful
estimate showed that the amount necessary for this purpose would go far towards reproducing
this standard work in modern type and in an improved form. After due reflection this course
was at length decided upon, and all the more readily, as by discarding the old plates and resetting
the entire work, the publisher was enabled to greatly enhance its value, by inserting the translator's
preface as it appeared in the original edition, and also to restore many notes and other valuable
material which had been carelessly omitted in the American reprint.

An example of an important omission of this kind may be found on the fifteenth, sixteenth,
and seventeenth pages of this volume, which may be appropriately referred to, in this connection.
It is there stated, in describing the ancient kingdom of Ethiopia, and the ruins of Thebes,
her opulent metropolis, that "There a people, now forgotten, discovered, while others were
yet barbarians, the elements of the arts and sciences. A race of men, now rejected from society
for their sable skin and frizzled hair, founded on the study of the laws of nature, those civil
and religious systems which still govern the universe."

A voluminous note, in which standard authorities are cited, seems to prove that this statement
is substantially correct, and that we are in reality indebted to the ancient Ethiopians, to
the fervid imagination of the persecuted and despised negro, for the various religious systems
now so highly revered by the different branches of both the Semitic and Aryan races. This fact,
which is so frequently referred to in Mr. Volney's writings, may perhaps solve the question
as to the origin of all religions, and may even suggest a solution to the secret so long concealed
beneath the flat nose, thick lips, and negro features of the Egyptian Sphinx.

That an imaginative and superstitious race of black men should have invented and founded, in
the dim obscurity of past ages, a system of religious belief that still enthralls the minds
and clouds the intellects of the leading representatives of modern theology,--that still clings
to the thoughts, and tinges with its potential influence the literature and faith of the civilized
and cultured nations of Europe and America, is indeed a strange illustration of the mad caprice
of destiny, of the insignificant and apparently trivial causes that oft produce the most grave
and momentous results.

The translation here given closely follows that published in Paris by Levrault, Quai Malaquais,
in 1802, which was under the direction and careful supervision of the talented author; and
whatever notes Count Volney then thought necessary to insert in his work, are here carefully
reproduced without abridgment or modification.

The portrait, maps and illustrations are from a French edition of Volney's complete works,
published by Bossange Freres at No. 12 Rue de Seine, Paris, in 1821,--one year after the death
of Mr. Volney. It is a presentation copy "on the part of Madame, the Countess de Volney, and
of the nephew of the author," and it may therefore be taken for granted that Mr. Volney's portrait,
as here given, is correct, and was satisfactory to his family.

An explanation of the figures and diagrams shown on the map of the Astrological Heaven of the
Ancients has been added in the appendix by the publisher.

PETER ECKLER.

New York, January 3, 1890.

TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE

OF THE ENGLISH EDITION PUBLISHED IN PARIS.

To offer the public a new translation of Volney's Ruins may require some apology in the view
of those who are acquainted with the work only in the English version which already exists,
and which has had a general circulation. But those who are conversant with the book in the
author's own language, and have taken pains to compare it with that version, must have been
struck with the errors with which the English performance abounds. They must have regretted
the loss of many original beauties, some of which go far in composing the essential merits
of the work.

The energy and dignity of the author's manner, the unaffected elevation of his style, the conciseness,
perspicuity and simplicity of his diction, are everywhere suited to his subject, which is solemn,
novel, luminous, affecting,--a subject perhaps the most universally interesting to the human
race that has ever been presented to their contemplation. It takes the most liberal and comprehensive
view of the social state of man, develops the sources of his errors in the most perspicuous
and convincing manner, overturns his prejudices with the greatest delicacy and moderation,
sets the wrongs he has suffered, and the rights he ought to cherish, in the clearest point
of view, and lays before him the true foundation of morals--his only means of happiness.

As the work has already become a classical one, even in English, and as it must become and
continue to be so regarded in all languages in which it shall be faithfully rendered, we wish
it to suffer as little as possible from a change of country;--that as much of the spirit of
the original be transfused and preserved as is consistent with the nature of translation.

How far we have succeeded in performing this service for the English reader we must not pretend
to determine. We believe, however, that we have made an improved translation, and this without
claiming any particular merit on our part, since we have had advantages which our predecessor
had not. We have been aided by his labors; and, what is of still more importance, our work
has been done under the inspection of the author, whose critical knowledge of both languages
has given us a great facility in avoiding such errors as might arise from hurry or mistake.

Paris, November 1, 1802.

PREFACE OF THE LONDON EDITION.*

     * Published by T. Allman, 42 Holborn Hill, London, 1851.

The plan of this publication was formed nearly ten years ago; and allusions to it may be seen
in the preface to Travels in Syria and Egypt, as well as at the end of that work, (published
in 1787). The performance was in some forwardness when the events of 1788 in France interrupted
it. Persuaded that a development of the theory of political truth could not sufficiently acquit
a citizen of his debt to society, the author wished to add practice; and that particularly
at a time when a single arm was of consequence in the defence of the general cause.

The same desire of public benefit which induced him to suspend his work, has since engaged
him to resume it, and though it may not possess the same merit as if it had appeared under
the circumstances that gave rise to it, yet he imagines that at a time when new passions are
bursting forth,--passions that must communicate their activity to the religious opinions of
men,--it is of importance to disseminate such moral truths as are calculated to operate as
a curb and restraint. It is with this view he has endeavored to give to these truths, hitherto
treated as abstract, a form likely to gain them a reception.

It was found impossible not to shock the violent prejudices of some readers; but the work,
so far from being the fruit of a disorderly and perturbed spirit, has been dictated by a sincere
love of order and humanity.

After reading this performance it will be asked, how it was possible in 1784 to have had an
idea of what did not take place till the year 1790? The solution is simple. In the original
plan the legislator was a fictitious and hypothetical being: in the present, the author has
substituted an existing legislator; and the reality has only made the subject additionally
interesting.

PREFACE OF THE AMERICAN EDITION.*

     * The copy from which this preface is reprinted was
     published in Boston by Charles Gaylord, in 1833.  It was
     given to the writer, when a mere lad, by a lady--almost a
     stranger--who was traveling through the little hamlet on the
     banks of the Hudson where he then resided.  This lady
     assured me that the book was of great value, containing
     noble and sublime truths; and the only condition she
     attached to the gift was, that I should read it carefully
     and endeavor to understand its meaning.  This I willingly
     promised and faithfully performed; and all who have "climbed
     the heights," and escaped from the thraldom of superstitious
     faith, will concede the inestimable value of such a gift--
     rich with the peace and consolation that the truth imparts.
     --Pub.

If books were to be judged of by their volume, the following would have but little value; if
appraised by their contents, it will perhaps be reckoned among the most instructive.

In general, nothing is more important than a good elementary book; but, also, nothing is more
difficult to compose and even to read: and why? Because, as every thing in it should be analysis
and definition, all should be expressed with truth and precision. If truth and precision are
wanting, the object has not been attained; if they exist, its very force renders it abstract.

The first of these defects has been hitherto evident in all books of morality. We find in them
only a chaos of incoherent maxims, precepts without causes, and actions without a motive. The
pedants of the human race have treated it like a little child: they have prescribed to it good
behavior by frightening it with spirits and hobgoblins. Now that the growth of the human race
is rapid, it is time to speak reason to it; it is time to prove to men that the springs of
their improvement are to be found in their very organization, in the interest of their passions,
and in all that composes their existence. It is time to demonstrate that morality is a physical
and geometrical science, subject to the rules and calculations of the other mathematical sciences:
and such is the advantage of the system expounded in this book, that the basis of morality
being laid in it on the very nature of things, it is both constant and immutable; whereas,
in all other theological systems, morality being built upon arbritary opinions, not demonstrable
and often absurd, it changes, decays, expires with them, and leaves men in an absolute depravation.
It is true that because our system is founded on facts and not on reveries, it will with much
greater difficulty be extended and adopted: but it will derive strength from this very struggle,
and sooner or later the eternal religion of Nature must overturn the transient religions of
the human mind.

This book was published for the first time in 1793, under the title of The French Citizen's
Catechism. It was at first intended for a national work, but as it may be equally well entitled
the Catechism of men of sense and honor, it is to be hoped that it will become a book common
to all Europe. It is possible that its brevity may prevent it from attaining the object of
a popular classical work, but the author will be satisfied if he has at least the merit of
pointing out the way to make a better.

ADVERTISEMENT OF THE AMERICAN EDITION.

VOLNEY'S RUINS;

OR MEDITATION ON THE REVOLUTIONS OF EMPIRES.

The superior merits of this work are too well known to require commendation; but as it is not
generally known that there are in circulation three English translations of it, varying materially
in regard to faithfulness and elegance of diction, the publisher of the present edition inserts
the following extracts for the information of purchasers and readers:

PARIS TRANSLATION,

First published in this Country by Dixon and Sickels.

INVOCATION.

Hail, solitary ruins! holy sepulchres, and silent walls! you I invoke; to you I address my
prayer. While your aspect averts, with secret terror, the vulgar regard, it excites in my heart
the charm of delicious sentiments--sublime contemplations. What useful lessons! what affecting
and profound reflections you suggest to him who knows how to consult you. When the whole earth,
in chains and silence, bowed the neck before its tyrants, you had already proclaimed the truths
which they abhor, and confounding the dust of the king with that of the meanest slave, had
announced to man the sacred dogma of Equality! Within your pale, in solitary adoration of Liberty,
I saw her Genius arise from the mansions of the dead; not such as she is painted by the impassioned
multitude, armed with fire and sword, but under the august aspect of justice, poising in her
hand the sacred balance, wherein are weighed the actions of men at the gates of eternity.

O Tombs! what virtues are yours! you appal the tyrant's heart, and poison with secret alarm
his impious joys; he flies, with coward step, your incorruptible aspect, and erects afar his
throne of insolence.

LONDON TRANSLATION.

INVOCATION.

Solitary ruins, sacred tombs, ye mouldering and silent walls, all hail! To you I address my
invocation. While the vulgar shrink from your aspect with secret terror, my heart finds in
the contemplation a thousand delicious sentiments, a thousand admirable recollections. Pregnant,
I may truly call you, with useful lessons, with pathetic and irresistible advice to the man
who knows how to consult you. A while ago the whole world bowed the neck in silence before
the tyrants that oppressed it; and yet in that hopeless moment you already proclaimed the truths
that tyrants hold in abhorrence: mixing the dust of the proudest kings with that of the meanest
slaves, you called upon us to contemplate this example of Equality. From your caverns, whither
the musing and anxious love of Liberty led me, I saw escape its venerable shade, and with unexpected
felicity, direct its flight and marshal my steps the way to renovated France.

Tombs! what virtues and potency do you exhibit! Tyrants tremble at your aspect--you poison
with secret alarm their impious pleasures--they turn from you with impatience, and, coward
like, endeavor to forget you amid the sumptuousness of their palaces.

PHILADELPHIA TRANSLATION.

INVOCATION.

Hail, ye solitary ruins, ye sacred tombs, and silent walls! 'Tis your auspicious aid that I
invoke; 'tis to you my soul, wrapt in meditation, pours forth its prayers! What though the
profane and vulgar mind shrinks with dismay from your august and awe-inspiring aspect; to me
you unfold the sublimest charms of contemplation and sentiment, and offer to my senses the
luxury of a thousand delicious and enchanting thoughts! How sumptuous the feast to a being
that has a taste to relish, and an understanding to consult you! What rich and noble admonitions;
what exquisite and pathetic lessons do you read to a heart that is susceptible of exalted feelings!
When oppressed humanity bent in timid silence throughout the globe beneath the galling yoke
of slavery, it was you that proclaimed aloud the birthright of those truths which tyrants tremble
at while they detect, and which, by sinking the loftiest head of the proudest potentate, with
all his boasted pageantry, to the level of mortality with his meanest slave, confirmed and
ratified by your unerring testimony the sacred and immortal doctrine of Equality.

Musing within the precincts of your inviting scenes of philosophic solitude, whither the insatiate
love of true-born Liberty had led me, I beheld her Genius ascending, not in the spurious character
and habit of a blood-thirsty Fury, armed with daggers and instruments of murder, and followed
by a frantic and intoxicated multitude, but under the placid and chaste aspect of Justice,
holding with a pure and unsullied hand the sacred scales in which the actions of mortals are
weighed on the brink of eternity.

The first translation was made and published in London soon after the appearance of the work
in French, and, by a late edition, is still adopted without alteration. Mr. Volney, when in
this country in 1797, expressed his disapprobation of this translation, alleging that the translator
must have been overawed by the government or clergy from rendering his ideas faithfully; and,
accordingly, an English gentleman, then in Philadelphia, volunteered to correct this edition.
But by his endeavors to give the true and full meaning of the author with great precision,
he has so overloaded his composition with an exuberance of words, as in a great measure to
dissipate the simple elegance and sublimity of the original. Mr. Volney, when he became better
acquainted with the English language, perceived this defect; and with the aid of our countryman,
Joel Barlow, made and published in Paris a new, correct, and elegant translation, of which
the present edition is a faithful and correct copy.

CONTENTS

     Publisher's Preface
     Translator's Preface
     Preface of London Edition
     Preface of the American Edition
     Advertisement of the American Edition
     The Life of Volney
     A List of Volney's Works
     Invocation

     Chap.
     I.     The Journey
     II.    The Reverie
     III.   The Apparition
     IV.    The Exposition
     V.     Condition of Man in the Universe
     VI.    The Primitive State of Man
     VII.   Principles of Society
     VIII.  Sources of the Evils of Societies
     IX.    Origin of Governments and Laws
     X.     General Causes of the Prosperity of Ancient States
     XI.    General Causes of the Revolutions and Ruin of Ancient States
     XII.   Lessons of Times Past repeated on the Present
     XIII.  Will the Human Race Improve
     XIV.   The Great Obstacle to Improvement
     XV.    The New Age
     XVI.   A Free and Legislative People
     XVII.  Universal Basis of all Right and all Law
     XVIII. Consternation and Conspiracy of Tyrants
     XIX.   General Assembly of the Nations
     XX.    The Search of Truth
     XXI.   Problem of Religious Contradictions
     XXII.  Origin and Filiation of Religious Ideas
         I.     Origin of the Idea of God: Worship of the Elements
                   and of the Physical Powers of Nature
         II.    Second System.  Worship of the Stars, or Sabeism
         III.   Third System.  Worship of Symbols, or Idolatry
         IV.    Fourth System.  Worship of two Principles, or Dualism
         V.     Moral and Mystical Worship, or System of a Future State
         VI.    Sixth System.  The Animated World, or Worship of the
                    Universe under diverse Emblems
         VII.   Seventh System.  Worship of the Soul of the World, that
                    is to say, the Element of Fire, Vital Principle
                    of the Universe
         VIII.  Eighth System.  The World Machine: Worship of the Demi-
                   Ourgos, or Grand Artificer
         IX.    Religion of Moses, or Worship of the Soul of the World
                  (You-piter)
         X.     Religion of Zoroaster
         XI.    Budsoism, or Religion of the Samaneans
         XII.   Brahmism, or Indian System
         XIII.  Christianity, or the Allegorical Worship of the Sun
                   under the cabalistic names of Chrish-en or Christ
                   and Yesus or Jesus
     XXIII. All Religions have the same Object
     XXIV.  Solution of the Problem of Contradictions

     THE LAW OF NATURE.

     Chap.
     I.     Of the Law of Nature
     II.    Characters of the Law of Nature
     III.   Principles of the Law of Nature relating to Man
     IV.    Basis of Morality: of Good, of Evil, of Sin, of Crime,
               of Vice, and of Virtue
     V.     Of Individual Virtues
     VI.    On Temperance
     VII.   On Continence
     VIII.  On Courage and Activity
     IX.    On Cleanliness
     X.     On Domestic Virtues
     XI.    The Social Virtues; Justice
     XII.   Development of the Social Virtues

     Volney's Answer to Dr. Priestly.

     Appendix: The Zodiacal Signs and Constellations

LIFE OF VOLNEY.

By Count Daru.

Constantine Francis Chassebeuf De Volney was born in 1757 at Craon, in that intermediate condition
of life, which is of all the happiest, since it is deprived only of fortune's too dangerous
favors, and can aspire to the social and intellectual advantages reserved for a laudable ambition.

From his earliest youth, he devoted himself to the search after truth, without being disheartened
by the serious studies which alone can initiate us into her secrets. After having become acquainted
with the ancient languages, the natural sciences and history, and being admitted into the society
of the most eminent literary characters, he submitted, at the age of twenty, to an illustrious
academy, the solution of one of the most difficult problems that the history of antiquity has
left open for discussion. This attempt received no encouragement from the learned men who were
appointed his judges; and the author's only appeal from their sentence was to his courage and
his efforts.

Soon after, a small inheritance having fallen to his lot, the difficulty was how to spend it
(these are his own words.) He resolved to employ it in acquiring, by a long voyage, a new fund
of information, and determined to visit Egypt and Syria. But these countries could not be explored
to advantage without a knowledge of the language. Our young traveller was not to be discouraged
by this difficulty. Instead of learning Arabic in Europe, he withdrew to a convent of Copts,
until he had made himself master of an idiom that is spoken by so many nations of the East.
This resolution showed one of those undaunted spirits that remain unshaken amid the trials of life.

Although, like other travellers, he might have amused us with an account of his hardships and
the perils surmounted by his courage, he overcame the temptation of interrupting his narrative
by personal adventures. He disdained the beaten track. He does not tell us the road he took,
the accidents he met with, or the impressions he received. He carefully avoids appearing upon
the stage; he is an inhabitant of the country, who has long and well observed it, and who describes
its physical, political, and moral state. The allusion would be entire if an old Arab could
be supposed to possess all the erudition, all the European philosophy, which are found united
and in their maturity in a traveller of twenty-five.

But though a master in all those artifices by which a narration is rendered interesting, the
young man is not to be discerned in the pomp of labored descriptions. Although possessed of
a lively and brilliant imagination, he is never found unwarily explaining by conjectural systems
the physical or moral phenomena he describes. In his observations he unites prudence with science.
With these two guides he judges with circumspection, and sometimes confesses himself unable
to account for the effects he has made known to us.

Thus his account has all the qualities that persuade--accuracy and candor. And when, ten years
later, a vast military enterprise transported forty thousand travellers to the classic ground,
which he had trod unattended, unarmed and unprotected, they all recognized a sure guide and
an enlightened observer in the writer who had, as it seemed, only preceded them to remove or
point out a part of the difficulties of the way.

The unanimous testimony of all parties proved the accuracy of his account and the justness
of his observations; and his Travels in Egypt and Syria were, by universal suffrage, recommended
to the gratitude and the confidence of the public.

Before the work had undergone this trial it had obtained in the learned world such a rapid
and general success, that it found its way into Russia. The empress, then (in 1787) upon the
throne, sent the author a medal, which he received with respect, as a mark of esteem for his
talents, and with gratitude, as a proof of the approbation given to his principles. But when
the empress declared against France, Volney sent back the honorable present, saying: "If I
obtained it from her esteem, I can only preserve her esteem by returning it."

The revolution of 1789, which had drawn upon France the menaces of Catharine, had opened to
Volney a political career. As deputy in the assembly of the states-general, the first words
he uttered there were in favor of the publicity of their deliberations. He also supported the
organization of the national guards, and that of the communes and departments.

At the period when the question of the sale of the domain lands was agitated (in 1790), he
published an essay in which he lays down the following principles: "The force of a State is
in proportion to its population; population is in proportion to plenty; plenty is in proportion
to tillage; and tillage, to personal and immediate interest, that is to the spirit of property.
Whence it follows, that the nearer the cultivator approaches the passive condition of a mercenary,
the less industry and activity are to be expected from him; and, on the other hand, the nearer
he is to the condition of a free and entire proprietor, the more extension he gives to his
own forces, to the produce of his lands, and the general prosperity of the State."

The author draws this conclusion, that a State is so much the more powerful as it includes
a greater number of proprietors,--that is, a greater division of property.

Conducted into Corsica by that spirit of observation which belongs only to men whose information
is varied and extensive, he perceived at the first glance all that could be done for the improvement
of agriculture in that country: but he knew that, for a people firmly attached to ancient customs,
there can exist no other demonstration or means of persuasion than example. He purchased a
considerable estate, and made experiments on those kinds of tillage that he hoped to naturalize
in that climate. The sugar-cane, cotton, indigo and coffee soon demonstrated the success of
his efforts. This success drew upon him the notice of the government. He was appointed director
of agriculture and commerce in that island, where, through ignorance, all new methods are introduced
with such difficulty.

