The Renaissance of the Vocal Art

A Practical Study of Vitality, Vitalized Energy, of the Physical, Mental and Emotional Powers
of the Singer, through Flexible, Elastic Bodily Movements

BY EDMUND J. MYER F.S. Sc. (London)

Author of "Truths of Importance to Vocalists," "The Voice from a Practical Stand-Point," "Voice-Training
Exercises" (a study of the natural movements of the voice), "Vocal Reinforcement," "Position
and Action in Singing," etc., etc.

1902

"When you see something new to you in art, or hear a proposition in philosophy you never heard
before, do not make haste to ridicule, deny or refute. Possibly the trouble is with yourself--who
knows?"

PREFACE.

To my readers once again through this little work, greetings. For the many kind things said
of my former works by my friends, my pupils, the critic and the profession, thanks! For
now, the above is enough to have a general idea.

       

* * * * *

CHAPTER III.

GENEVA.

Not without reason said Voltaire, highlighting the physical smallness in contrast to Geneva their
high social value, that "when he shook his wig in the city, covered with dust throughout the
city. "Never a handful of soil enclosed in so narrow horizons was more charming their looks,
or more broadly productive for civilization, for his eminent geniuses secular efforts in the
service of freedom.

In my trips in Europe I have not visited people who have inspired me so much sympathy as Geneva
in Switzerland and the Basque in Spain. It is really extraordinary social phenomenon so that
moral greatness relative contained in an enclosure, so narrow, almost microscopic, which is
the city or federal state Geneva.

By virtue of the recent annexation of Savoy to France (which has been one of those acts of justice
and progress that diplomacy is often contestable consumption through) the city of Geneva is now completely
wedged between French border curve, whose circle is not interrupted only by the waters of Lake
Geneva and the southern tip of the canton of Vaud, one of the most extensive and prosperous of
the Confederation. Measure the area around Geneva 33 km at its greatest length from east to west
by 15 miles wide, of south to north, containing the total area of ​​242 square kilometers. The
climate is generally soft and gentle, given consideration to the latitude and the topography
of the country round; their land is very fertile, but skilled and fully grown, their horizons reduced
but remarkably beautiful and seductive.

The city of Geneva is just a maximum elevation of 375 meters above sea level, allowing you
to not only populate their terms of harvest, fruits and vegetables, but also cultivate their
graceful vines, which give the landscape in lakeshore in the nearby hills and valleys of the
Rhone and the Arve, a melancholy seduces and captivates, the happier side of the countryside.

Since
the city itself, up to the towers of his cathedral, which from the top of its hill dominates
the landscape as the watchman of the lake, register with the eye throughout of Canton, as well as skirts
and spurs more or less distant from the mountains Savoy setentrional (Faucigny) and the Jura.
To the south are the valleys of the Rhone and the Arve, which merge at a short distance from Geneva,
turning downward direction or the Savoy provinces of Annecy and Chambery, and dominated by the
buttresses Alpine Jurassic, boasting basins in the graces of artificial vegetation and grasslands,
high curves pine forests and some populations groups. To the east, a succession of gentle slopes
and hills starts from the bank of the lake to go and stop raising enough to walking distance
Voirons chain, undulating and covered with meadows that have replaced the ancient forests of
the western side, but his abrupt and severe wild vegetation on the
opposite side.

This string is the end of the rough and rugged mountain system of the former provinces of Chablais
and Faucigny, between the valley of the Arve and Lake Leman.

To the west, the inclined planes, their narrow valleys, hills, steep slopes and finally the
towering hills are beautiful and choppy happening in amphitheatres, from waves of the lake just highlights
of the Jura ridges. All that picture topo-orographic is a wonderful effect, in contrast, or
rather, matching the lake as if the background is the long narrow blue surface, but holds above
the belt of vineyards, of joyous orchards, farms and capricious funny sowings multicolored belt
up enough to fit into the framework bleak, superbly majestic high Jurassic vegetation (Forests of pine
and spruce) and composition of the limestone rocks in some excel peaks. Finally, north swell,
from irregular contour lines, light waves, wonderfully transparent blue of the lake, sometimes
violently shaken by hurricanes that blow in the Alps, some asleep and murmuring, moaning often
under the keel of any steam or brigantine, immobile like a huge mirror that reflects all the
splendor of the blue sky and infinite depths. And these waves, which always snatch or captive,
they will stop at the picturesque setting of the banks and hills
of the canton of Vaud, ground wave of gleaming vegetables.

Lake Geneva or Leman is, without doubt, the most beautiful and useful than those contained
Switzerland scarcely rivaled by Constance under the commercial point of view. Taking full the
form of an arc or crescent, the ends bent to E. and SO are in Villanueva (Villeneuve) and
Geneva, ie towards the entrance and exit of the Rhone, their narrow banks among Ivoire (Savoy setentrional)
and the line that determines the small long and narrow gulf. The top is called the "great lake",
the lower the "little lake" or the Geneva itself. Its greatest length is 71 kilometers and maximum
width from 14 to 4 km between Evian (port and small town of Savoy) and Morges, Canton villa Vaud,
containing a total area of ​​1.430 square kilometers. The depth varies much, because in the middle
reaches of the lake to 350 meters (in a lake whose prodigious mountains more neighbors are low
in general), whereas among never exceeds Nion and Geneva of 97 meters.

Around

the lake abounds in fish (30 species) and birds of species much more numerous; fisheries offering
lucrative occupation for many people. The waters are turquoise blue admirable perhaps unparalleled,
and this transparency is reached to the bottom clearly visible to many meters. This enormous
depth, unique phenomena of the current interiors, and the action of the opposing winds that
dominate the lake, preventing the water never freeze, even in the most rigorous winters, except
at the edges, where they accumulate frosts. There is no report that the total freezing occurred
but twice in the eighth and ninth centuries.

The storms of the lake are terrible and sometimes fatal, but the phenomena of calm and violence,
flood and decreases in volume, occur and occur with extraordinary quickly. Forty-two rivers flowing
into the banks of Lake Geneva, soft, sandy setentrional side, Rocky, steep and heavily steep side of Savoy.
Of these rivers the most significant are: the Rhone, of course, that alone amounts to as many others,
and Dranzer (Not to be confused with the Dranzer tributary of the Rhone), river ride after the
rough mountains Alps, flows between Thonon and Evian. The same Rhône is the only outlet Lake,
escaping as a wide ribbon lazuli, at the height of 368 meters above sea level the sea, through Geneva,
which circumstance derives its name from the city, according to the etymology Celtic gin, output,
and v, rio.

It's so huge mass of granite and limestone sand and silt that accumulates in the Leman Rhone, towards
entry and exit, which every day grow dangerous banks near Geneva, and the waters recede from
Villanueva, emerging alluvial plain in the extreme superior, while the waves invade the shore setentrional
or the canton of Vaud. It is curious to contrast the upper and lower Rhône: the first, throwing
over the basin their overflowing lake gray mud, the second coming of purified lake and clear,
as if to symbolize the purity of morals and clarity of the free institutions Geneva and Vaud.
This circumstance, which also shows in other lakes, such as Brienz and Thun, is explained by the
existence, at bottom, a purifying substance and dye which acts as a powerful reagent.

The navigation of Leman is active, extensive and very valuable.

Besides the countless shelves feluccas or that people all crowded ports, and particularly the
docks and Vevey Geneva extensive, sailing in all directions steamships, whose movement is constant,
for single passenger transportation [2]. As freight traffic (regardless of the numerous fishing
boats) is made of three kinds of sailing ships, brigs, full-bridge boats and garages, or boats
in a unique manner, discovered large part and for the transportation of timber, fuel and building
materials.

[2] The first steam, with the glorious name of William Tell, was thrown into the water in Geneva
in 1823. The date is significant.

The Republic of Geneva, which for centuries was limited to the city of that name, it increased
in 1816, treaty of Vienna and Paris that fifteen districts annexed Savoyards and six French. The
canton's population has risen (in 1860) to 83.345 inhabitants, of which more than 9,000 are citizens of
other States of the Confederation, and about 12,000 foreigners - French Today in greater numbers.
The capital alone has 41.415 inhabitants, making Geneva first city in Confederation. Although
the State two-thirds of the inhabitants profess reformed religion or ritual called a Calvinist,
and Roman Catholics make up, with 1.000 Jews, the other third, in the most reformed capital is not in
the same proportion. For the rest, but at every step is heard in the talks on German-Swiss accent,
Italian, English (by the abundance of travelers), and even the Romans themselves, the dialect
spoken in the Graubünden, French is the official and common to all people.

Geneva has had a history as stormy and difficult as fruitful, suffering, like all peoples of the
race of the Allobroges, invasion and subsequent domination of the Romans, Barbarians V century,
the Burguiñones, Ostrogoths and Franks, the Swiss and Savoyards same and lately the French
Republicans in 1798. Dominated by the Romans until the year 426, was alternately in the capitals
of the Burguiñones, then capital of the kingdom of the Franks until the mid-ninth century, and
the second kingdom of Burgundy until almost mid of XI, owned by the successors of Charlemagne, falling
under the authority after more alternative even their sovereign bishops and the counts and
dukes of Savoy, which was contested between itself with tenacity,
no less than to Geneva them.

If from the beginning of the sixteenth century the village began to fight for their independence
against bishops and counts, religious reform he said was the civil autonomy, as well as their emancipation
from Rome. Thanks to Calvin, who regularized the motion and consolidated their results, Geneva
became the metropolis of Reformed Protestantism and the base of the organization Republican southern
Switzerland [3]. Admire the energy with which this small town, surrounded by enemies and isolated
from their fortifications, could enforce their nationality until 1798, serve as a safe haven to
all the proscribed and persecuted on the mainland, even in the presence the powerful Louis XIV,
and glorify as fertile center of civilization, economic activity and literary propaganda, political
and religious. By putting his foot in Geneva on the shores of the lake, you can not unless
alternatives are adjacent to the island microscopic big bridge, called Jean-Jacques Rousseau,
the point is not far to indicate the situation of Ferney, in one of the slanted back toward
the Jura, and high eminences Saussure to climb the barometer in his hand - objects that evoke the
glories conspicuous of literature, philosophy and science, which
has had enviable Geneva part.

[3] However, fighting continued until 1602, when the Duke of Savoy lost all Ginevra hope of recovering.
Mamelukes then called themselves supporters of Bishops and counts, and Eigenossen oath or allies,
advocates of independence.

That name German, pronounced higene, gave rise to the Huguenots, to be called to the Calvinists
or reformed.

Since the mid-sixteenth century until 1816 Geneva was not without its independence but for the
sixteen or seventeen years of French domination, to which the stream could not resist or the
greatest empires. Built to the Swiss Confederation fall Napoleon Genevan republic continued its
old place, governed by institutions that are away enough of democracy and religious tolerance.
Calvin's footprint had been deeply etched in the Athens of Reformed Protestantism. Walking time,
the class highest in the country had formed an aristocracy or oligarchy intolerant and privileged
and its power to destroy the village launched a fierce struggle, manifested by revolutions
more or less incomplete and not very fruitful in 1830, 41 and 43,
to succeed definitely 46.

The radical organization data 47, and in the thirteen years of popular government and free
Geneva has since made the most beautiful achievements in the way of the progress.

The government of that state is democratic, representative. Any citizen over 21 years is vote and
stand. The Constitution guarantees to all citizens full freedom of religion and cultured [4]
and of the press, traffic, industry, education, the petition and association, the inviolability
of the home and correspondence. There does not encroach upon the authority with its regulations,
the field of activity and individual right, but why they lack effective protection to the primary
education and training, public welfare, the means of communication and some other objects
of interest first. As citizens know that power rests in their hands, in his opinion, the press
has the most notable activity and range to serve all interests, and boards and corporations of
all kinds are numerous and frequent. The principle of association is the most fruitful applications
in politics as in literature, commerce, industry, etc. Perhaps, with the exception of Stuttgart
and Leipzic, German cities of advertising whose movement is vast,
there is no European city ​​that, relative to their proportions, is
making a very extensive, varied and fruitful the press, such as Geneva.

[4]

Except, unfortunately, to the Jews.

The Canton is governed under the principle of complete separation of powers, although all stemming
from the popular vote, directly or indirectly, and the municipal system is very free. Legislative
power is exercised around the Canton an Assembly or Grand Council of the biennial election and
popular, which consists of 93 members. The executive is in charge of a Council of State whose
members, of equal length, are appointed by the Grand Council. In Geneva there troops permanent
and military hierarchies. All citizens from 20 to 50 years are members of the State militia,
who serves as the authority flame, and from whose leaves an annual quota for the modest federal army.
No gendarmerie, the police are invisible, distinctive because it has none, or inconvenient
for those who make use of its right, nor is it feel but providing effective services. If any crime
is committed on the street, all the world lends his voluntary basis to the authority to suppress and
apprehend the culprit. In fact, police in Geneva is the work of citizens, and it is they who,
guided the common interest of freedom and honor of the state, maintain the most perfect order,
in harmony with the most complete personal liberty as may be innocent and logical. In all
public places in Geneva is a table or cartulon with this caption: "While public trips destined
to the usefulness and pleasure of all, the Administrative Council (The city) put them under
the protection of citizens. "There is in these words admirable simplicity, of which the Genevans
are very worthy, a theory teaching or deep and universal moral and political, economic and
social legislation and historical philosophy.

If the Geneva Village ethnography explains the predominance in him and in all its manifestations
literature, French language, his political genius, industrial and social institutions correspond
to a curious amalgam of different elements. European migrations of people superiors, attracted
to Geneva by the freedom that the Republic guarantees in times of universal despotism (but
the old distinction of five classes of Geneva) have With it the blood and genius of other
peoples, so that the names abound German, Italian, English and even Spanish, and the types of different
races, more or less confused. This gives a remarkable Ginevra cosmopolitan character. Nowhere is there
more so obvious that the phenomenon of social physiology - so prevalent in the world and almost
HOWEVER long forgotten by history - the moral transformation of a race almost solely by virtue
their institutions.

City at one time reduced by the needs of defense, the insulation material within its ramparts
and fortresses, Geneva has become cosmopolitan then - all shelter idea of ​​every man proscribed
and persecuted - welcoming all the good of civilization, practicing resolutely democracy, penetrating
all spheres of intellectual activity going to look up in the New World, the modern formula of penal
philosophy. Essentially Race French by origin, language and traditions, the people have the qualities
Geneva without the shortcomings of French genius. It has the spirit of research, analytical simultaneously
and generalizing the trend cosmopolitan aspirations, feeling artistic, literary and generous to a
large extent, and not a little of that cheerfulness expansive and elastic, this power assimilation,
which distinguishes the French. But no fatal instinct of centralization, idolatry that respect
of authority - that abdicates servility individual initiative to the government - such lightness
in the customs, and indifference to belief tenacious, which have upset the acquisition of
freedom within French society. The Genevan cultivated with care all that has some artistic and delicate:
painting, sculpture, music, engraving, watchmaking, jewelry and even dissection of plant and curious
animals. But it has managed to combine the art with the industry, its provisions poetic and
very French, with the seriousness and depth of research and feeling severe personality of the individual
right or characteristic of the Germanic races [5].

[5] is as inseparable from those races the spirit of personal independence,
which I always Was that a German (or its equivalent) who professes
no religion the doctrine of free examination is incomplete and contradictory
man.

Where does this happy amalgam?

Clearly the action of Reformed Protestantism (Whose abuses and intolerance of other times I am
very far from approving) which, by creating the concept and habit of free inquiry, in reasoned
and profound belief (without materialism pagan) and personal autonomy, has been heavily modified
Latin and French instincts of race, supported by the traditions and language.

In Geneva harmonize all social events, making a game seductive poetics perspectives of land and the
lake, the vagaries of the old feudal structures; sumptuous elegance of modern architecture, the
beautiful museums and libraries abundantly provided, the houses of correction and punishment; the
factories and fumes whose smokestacks nice smoky contrast to the facades, temples and gardens
of the innumerable magnificent villas situated between parks near the lake, the commercial
movement the streets and docks, the patients work ú 9.000 8 artists, working in 150.000 manufacturing
of gold watches per year, many excellent engravings (in stone, wood and metal), in the elegant
and delicate jewelry, sculptures and paintings, and in the preparation of many scientific instruments,
music, industrial. This whole set of events like activity in the city of structure semi-feudal
and semi-modern, whose inhabitants the echo of the whistle of the locomotive in the lake steamers and
two railroads, work with efforts to demolish all the fortifications and replace them with monuments,
gardens, factories, forests, springs and neighborhoods elegant and neat. This attracts the attention
of traveler, seduces your eyes and makes you respect a civilization that developed under the
influence of freedom, shows that the greatness of a people is no mass its native population and
the extension of its territory, but in the fecund energy and harmony their progress.

Geneva is divided by the Rhone into two unequal parts. At the apex of the lake, to the both sides
of the isle shaded by beautiful trees that stands the statue of Rousseau,
Rhone escapes into two branches under a large wooden bridge, producing
a small island covered with houses and mills, baths, swimming, etc.,
resting on pilings.

At the margin right lies the suburb of San Gervasio, full of factories, warehouses and Watches
dominated by the railway station to turn to France, Lausanne and Neuchâtel, and boasting on the
piers and docks on the banks of the lake and the river, rows of splendid houses and hotels that
seem to sumptuous palaces, and further a graceful cluster of opulent ú villas, parks, orchards
and gardens. In one of the old streets of this neighborhood that is the bleak two-story shack where
he was born Jean-Jacques.

The city itself stretches along the left bank of the lake and river presenting much of a huge
front line of beautiful modern buildings. After to cover the banks, climbs to the top of a
hill almost abruptly, forming a maze of streets, hills and stands
rigid, old, quirky building, in which center stands the cathedral,
government palace, the house of detention and other buildings public,
and turns on a long promenade on the ramparts of the ancient fortifications.

Finally descends towards the south-east, and expands on a slightly hilly plain, between the Rhone,
Arve valley and the hills of east flowing from the buttresses Savoyards. This is where, to round
the door-New, there are the public gardens theater, music conservatory, the Rath Museum, the
electoral palace buildings more recent, and where will the new Geneva emerging, free of the
obstacle of the fortifications, be extended indefinitely to link to Carouge, a town of 4,500 inhabitants
located on the left bank of the Arve.

Nothing more delicious than a drive on the left bank of the lake, towards Collonge, the fifth
through beautiful parks, orchards, gardens and vineyards and overlooking the view the magnificent
panorama of the lake and the Jura mountains, or rather, rocked gently on a Gondola fro the blue
waves of the lake, ride the surface at nine o'clock in the night when the stars shine in the bottom of
a magnificent sky, the breezes are awakened night full of perfumes, and looks far into the bank
the vast semicircle of light produced by rows of lanterns in all
the springs, to whose line is superimposed thousand whimsical lights
of the old city rising in irregular amphitheater on the hill.

 Everything which man says or does under normal,
free conditions, is self-expression, an expression of his inner nature; but this expression
must be under the law. If not, the expression is unnatural and therefore artificial. This principle,
which holds true in all of man's expression, in all art, is in nothing more evident than in
the use of the singing voice.

"Nature does nothing for man except what she enables him to do for himself." Nature gives him
much, but never compels him to use what she gives. Man is a free agent. He can obey or violate
the laws of Nature at will; but he cannot violate Nature's laws, and not pay the penalty. This
thought or principle constantly stands out as a warning to the vocal world. The student of
the voice who violates Nature's laws must not expect to escape the penalty, which is hard,
harsh, unmusical tone or ruined voice. Nature demands certain conditions in order to produce
beautiful, artistic tone. If the student of the voice desires to develop beautiful, artistic
tone he is compelled to study the conditions, the fundamental principles under the law; and
this can be done only by the use of common-sense methods.

All artistic tone is the result of certain conditions, conditions demanded by Nature and not
man's ideas or fancies. These conditions are dependent upon form and adjustment, or we might
better say adjustment and form, as form is the result of the adjustment of the parts. So far
all writers on the voice, and all teachers, agree; but here comes the parting of the ways.
One man attempts form and adjustment by locally influencing the parts,--the tongue, the lips,
the soft palate, the larynx, etc. This results in muscular singing and artificiality. We have
found that form and adjustment, to be right, must be automatic. This condition cannot be secured
by any system of direct local effort, but must be the result of flexible, vitalized bodily
movements--movements which arouse and develop all the true conditions of tone; movements which
allow the voice to sing spontaneously.

The fundamental conditions of singing demanded by Nature we find are as follows:

  Natural or automatic adjustment of the organ of sound, and of all the
  parts.

  Approximation of the breath bands.

  Inflation of all the cavities.

  Non-interference above the organ of sound.

  Automatic breath-control.

  Freedom of form and action of all the parts above the larynx.

  High placing and low resonance.

  Automatic articulation.

  Mental and emotional vitality or energy.

  Free, flexible, vitalized bodily position and action.

It is not my intention here to enlarge upon these conditions to any extent. I have already
done so in my last book, "Position and Action in Singing." I know many writers on the voice,
and many teachers, do not agree with me on this subject of conditions; but facts are stubborn
things, and "A physical fact is as sacred as a moral principle." "The sources of all phenomena,
the sources of all life, intelligence and love, are to be sought in the internal--the spiritual
realm; not in the external or material." "A man is considerably out of date who says he does
not believe a thing, simply because he cannot do that thing or does not understand how the
thing is done. These things [these conditions] can be understood and fully appreciated by investigation
only. There is no absolute definite knowledge in this world except that gained from experience.

The voice in correct use is always tuned like an instrument. This must be in order to have
resonance and freedom, and this is done only through natural or automatic adjustment of all
the parts. In singing there are always two forces in action, pressure and resistance, or motor
power and control. In order to have automatic adjustment these two forces must prevail. When
the organ of sound is automatically adjusted, the breath bands approximate: This gives the
true resisting or controlling force. When the breath bands approximate we have inflation of
the ventricles of the larynx, the most important of all the resonance cavities, for when this
condition prevails we have freedom of tone, and the inflation of all other cavities. And not
only this; it also enables us to remove all restraint or interference from the parts above
the larynx, and especially from the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles of the throat. This automatic
adjustment, approximation of the breath bands and inflation of the ventricles, gives us a yet
more important condition, namely, automatic breath control; this is beyond question the most
important of all problems solved for the singer through this system of flexible vitalized movements.

The removal of all interference or direct local control of the parts above the larynx, gives
absolute freedom of form and action; and when the form and action are free, articulation becomes
automatic and spontaneous. When all restraint is thus removed, the air current comes to the
front, and we secure the important condition of high placing. Furthermore, under these conditions,
when the air current strikes the roof of the mouth freely, it is reflected into the inflated
cavities, and there is heard and felt, through sympathetic vibration of the air in the cavities,
added resonance or the wonderful reinforcing power of inflation: in this way is secured not
only the added resonance of all other cavities, but especially the resonance of the chest,
the greatest of all resonance or reinforcing powers.

When the voice is thus freed under true conditions, it is possible to arouse easily and quickly
the mental and emotional power and vitality of the singer. In this way is aroused that which
I have called the singer's sensation, or, for want of a better name, the third power of the
voice. This power is not a mere fancy. It is not imagination; for it is absolutely necessary
to the complete mental and emotional expression of the singer, to the development of all his
powers. This life or vital force is to the singer a definite, controllable power. "Various
terms have been applied to this mysterious force. Plato called it 'the soul of the world.'
Others called it the 'plastic spirit of the world,' while Descartes gave it the afterward popular
name of 'animal spirits.' The Stoics called it simply 'nature,' which is now generally changed
to 'nervous principle.'" "The far-reaching results of so quiet and yet so tremendous a force
may be seen in the lives of the men and women who have the mental acumen to understand what
is meant by it." The singer who has developed and controlled "the third power" through the
true conditions of voice, never doubts its reality; and he, and he only, is able to fully appreciate
it.

The development of all the above conditions depends upon one important thing, the education
of the body; upon a free, flexible, vitalized body.

ARTICLE SEVEN.

THE INFLUENCE OF RIGHT BODILY ACTION.

In art, as in all things else, man must be under the law until he becomes a law unto himself.
In other words, he must study his technique, his method, his art, until all becomes a part
of himself, becomes, as it were, second nature. There is a wide difference between art and
artificiality. True art is based upon Nature's laws. Artificiality, in almost every instance,
is a violation of Nature's laws, and at best is but a poor imitation.

The impression prevails that art is something far off, something that is within the grasp of
the favored few only. We say of a man, he is a genius, and we bow down to him accordingly.
The genius is an artist by the grace of God and his own efforts. Nature has given some men
the power to easily and quickly grasp and understand things which pertain to art, but if such
men do not apply their understanding they never become great or useful artists. Talent is the
ability to study and apply, and is of a little lower order than genius; but the genius of application,
and the talent to apply that which is learned, have made the great and useful men, the great
artists of the world. As someone has said, "Art is not a thing separate and apart; art is only
the best way of doing things;" and while this is true of all the arts, it is eminently so of
the art of voice and of song.

Artistic tone, as we have found, is the result of certain conditions demanded by Nature. These
conditions are dependent upon form and adjustment; and form and adjustment, to be right, must
be automatic. All writers and teachers agree that correct tone is the result of form and adjustment;
but here, as we have said, comes the parting of the ways. One man attempts, by directly controlling
and adjusting the parts, to do that which nature alone can do correctly; result--hard, muscular
tone. Another attempts, by relaxation, to secure the conditions of tone; result--vocal depression,
or depressed, relaxed tone.

If artistic tone be the result of conditions due to form and adjustment, and if form and adjustment,
to be right, must be automatic, if these things are true, and they are as true as the fact
that the world moves, then there is only one way under heaven by which it is possible to secure
these conditions; that way is through a flexible, vitalized body, through flexible bodily position
and action.

The rigid, muscular school cannot secure these conditions, for they make flexible freedom impossible.
The limp, relaxed school cannot secure them, for there is no tone without tonicity and vitality
of muscle. Vitalized energy can secure these true conditions, but through flexible bodily position
and action only.

The rigid school is muscle-bound, and lacks life and vitality. The limp school, of course,
is depressed and lacks energy. The world is full of dead singers,--dead so far as vitality
and emotional energy are concerned. Singing is a form of emotional or self-expression, and
requires life and vitality. Life is action. Life is vital force aroused. Life in singing is
emotional energy. Life is a God-given, eternal condition, and is a fundamental principle of
the true art of song.

It is wonderfully strange that this idea or principle of flexible, vitalized bodily position
and action is not better understood by the vocal profession. That a right use or training of
the body, automatically influences form and adjustment, and secures right conditions of tone,
has been and is being demonstrated day by day. This is a revelation to many who have tried
to sing by the rigid or limp methods. There is really nothing new claimed for it, for it is
as old as the hills. Truth is eternal, and yet a great truth may be lost to the world for a
time. The only things new which we claim, are the movements and the simple and effective devices
used to study and apply them. These movements have a wonderful influence on the voice, for
the simple reason that they are based upon Nature's laws and common sense. These truths are
destined to influence, sooner or later, the entire vocal world.

A great truth cannot always be suppressed, and some day someone will present these truths in
a way that will compel their recognition. They are never doubted now by those who understand
them, and they are appreciated by such to a degree of enthusiasm. I am well aware that when
these movements are spoken of in the presence of the followers of the prevailing rigid or limp
schools, they exclaim, "Why, we do the same thing. We use the body too." Of course they use
the body, but it is by no means the same. Their use of the body is often abuse, and not only
of the body, but of the voice as well.

The influence on the singing voice of a rightly used or rightly trained body is almost beyond
the ability of man to put in words.

All singing should be rhythmical. These flexible bodily movements develop rhythm.

All singing should be the result of vitalized energy and never of muscular effort. These movements
arouse energy and make direct effort unnecessary.

Singing should be restful, should be the result of power in repose or under control. These
movements, and these movements alone, make such conditions possible.

All singing should be idealized, should be the result of self-expression, of an expression
of the emotions. This is impossible except through correct bodily action. "By nature the expression
of man is his voice, and the whole body through the agency of that invisible force, sound,
expresses the nobility, dignity, and intellectual emotions, from the foot to the head, when
properly produced and balanced. Nothing short of the whole body can express this force perfectly
in man or woman."

These movements develop in a common-sense way the power of natural forces, of all the forces
which Nature has given to man for the production and use of the voice. Rigid, set muscles,
or relaxed, limp muscles dwarf and limit in every way the powers of the singer, physical, mental,
and emotional; the physical action is wrong, the thought is wrong, and the expression is wrong.
A trained, developed muscle responds to thought, to right thought, in a free, natural manner.
A rigid or limp muscle is, in a certain sense, for the time being, actually out of use. All agreed on what he said, and broke 350 Spanish, to those who offered, if they were with
him, together Indians and take care of clothing, horses and whatever else necessary. Joyful all
admitted the offer: He called the decay, and asked them if he wanted to go to 2.000? And the point
offered to serve as were required.

After two months, our general left the year 1548, up the Paraguay River with seven brigs and
two hundred canoes. People who did not fit into the ships, was by land, with 130 horses and
he returned to gather near the high, round hill of San Fernando, 92 miles distant from the
Assumption, which inhabit the Payaguá. Did the general return from there to the Assumption
five launches with the canoes, leaving the other two with 50 Spanish, supplied for two years;
by Captain Don Francisco de Mendoza, [41] in order to stay in that place two years entrusting
had great care with the Indians, what should happen to John Oyola,
until you return.

He began his journey with 300 Christians, 130 horses and 2,000 caries, and in eight continuous
days no found a nation. On the ninth, and to the thirty-six miles from Mount San Fernando,
we in Naperús, Indians are kept for hunting and fishing. They are tall and robust. The women
are ugly, and from waist to knee bring a towel.

Four days later we arrived at the Mapais, [42] populous nation. They are so sugetos to their
principals, that the Indians needed to serve, and served in the rustic German nobles.

Have an abundance of fruits of corn, cassava, sweet potatoes, Mandubia, pacobas, and other roots
and things to eat.

There are many deer, sheep, pigs, ostriches, ducks, geese, chickens and other many birds. In
the forests there are many groups, they spend on wine making and other uses, and how walking
later, so much more fertile ground. All year there eating corn and roots in this province.

The
sheep, which they call huanacos are of two kinds, domestic and Monte Carlo, that used to load,
horseback riding and other ministries, such as use of the horses, and on this day, for being
bad leg, I walked over forty miles at a time. In Peru, carrying the merchandise in them. [43]
are high and warlike Indians, who only take care of things War: Indian women are beautiful, and
walk covers and background.

Not working in the field, before the Indians are careful to support the family, home or do more
than tect or cotton spinning, or cooking the food to their husbands, or serve in other nice things
which are also with others easily.

Mbayas came out to receive, less than half a league from this village, next to a lugarillo,
where they said, perfidious and treacherous, that sosegasemos that night, and assist us with what
necesitásemos, and to ensure the treachery which dealt generally gave the three Indian girls
four silver crowns, which tend to bring in the head, and four plates, each half inch long and half as
wide, that are placed on the forehead ornament.

We believed were peace, and we stayed at the lugarillo, and finished
dinner and sentinel sites, sleep until near midnight, the general
least three Indian cast, and looking for them, was moved the army
and the Mbayas suspecting evil, secretly ordered the dawn that they
were all in its housing prevented with their weapons, and ready to
egecutar what they are commanded.

CHAPTER XLV.

Mbayas peoples, Chan, Toba, Peyonas, Mayegoni, Morrone, Paroni and Siman. [44]

Imagining Indians we were sleeping, suddenly rammed us 2.000, which were quickly routed, with
the death of more than half, and the rest fled the village, where quickly followed them and
entered it, but did not find anyone, not their wives and children. General chased with 150 musketeers
and 2,500 Indians in a great hurry, for three days and two nights without stopping over to
eat and to rest four or five hours a night.

The third day we took in the woods many Mbayas with their children and wives, but they were not
we sought, but his friends, who did not have the slightest suspicion
that they were to them: no But they paid for the guilty, because when
we hit them, killing them and intrigued with Indian and their children,
about 3,000, and it gets dark, no escape, because all the large number
of the people gathered on a hill surrounded by forests.

I caught the 19 Indian men and women stripping not very old, and other things.

We returned to camp where we stayed eight days, because we had enough food. From Mbayas the mountain
of San Fernando, there are 50 leagues, and from the Naperús, 36.

Following the path, we came to the Indians Chanes, subjects of the Mbayas, the way that Germany to
his rustic gentlemen are in this day and planted corn and roots cultivated
in this land during the year: for when you are harvesting, another
is maturing and another is planted, and so at any time in the fields
are fresh things to eat.

From there we went to another village, whose Indians fled when they saw us and left us plenty food,
we stopped two days, at six miles we came to the Toba Indians, who had fled, and was well aware
of food, are also sugetos to the Mbayas.

We continued the journey without finding any Indians, and to the seven days to reach the nation
of the Peyonas, which is only 14 miles from the Toba. The chief of the village came to greet
us peace, together large crowd of Indians, General fervently, toilets enter the village, putting
your actual site where we received. But generally not served, and with good words the right way,
he wanted and did not want the boss, he entered the town, he had lots of chickens, geese, deer,
sheep, ostriches, parrots, rabbits and other similar, much corn and roots, that the land is fertile,
but very lack of water, and silver and gold, which we did not dare to ask, because the other
nations where we were to pass, they did not know what they wanted, and flee. Three days we stopped
to these Peyonas, and generally informed of the nature and condition of this province, and to say
goodbye gave us a guide, take us by a way that there is water to drink. And at four leagues to the
nation we call Mayegoni, where we spent a day and taking guide and language departed. These Indians
were very peaceful, and gave us everything we needed. Walks eight leagues, we came to the
nation of Indians Peppers: recibiéronos also of peace, and we two days with them, and made relation
of the nature and quality of land, with new guide we continued our journey, and at four miles
we came to another nation, not so crowded, Paroni call, will Indian warriors 3.000: there we
stopped for a day, but had little food. At twelve miles we enter another nation, whose natives are
called Siman. His people is situated on a high hill and surrounded by thorns and underbrush
as wall.

Were assembled many, and we were in war with bows, arrows and other
weapons.

His pride was short-lived, it up, deserted their people, having been
burned before, but the fields give us enough food.

CHAPTER XLVI.

Of the Barcones, Leyhanos, Carconos, Sivisicosis and Samocosis.

A 16 miles from this village, we walked in four days, arrived near the town suddenly Barcones Indians,
not knowing we were going, they began to flee, but at our request stopped. We asked food,
and promptly trageron abundantly, chickens, geese, sheep, ostriches, deer and other things,
and very glad we stopped the Indians four days, taking news from the land. Thence in three days, the
Indians entered Leyhanos, nation that lives to twelve miles from the Barcones: had little victuals,
for the locust had destroyed almost all fruit, and not spend what we had, we went to walk past
night and in four days we went 16 leagues, and came to another nation called Carconos, that although
they had suffered the same plague, had more food. Reported in a day we were, that in 24 or 30
miles, which was about the nation of the Indians Sivisicosis, find no water. Reached on the sixth
day, with great difficulty, for although Carconos provided us, were dying of thirst, some of
us, if this trip we did not find a root, which was off the ground, it went out large leaves, which
had water as firm as in a glass, not spilled, or consumed easily, and each have half a pint. Two
hours night, being close to the people of the Sivisicosis tried to flee with their Muyeres
and children, but the general dispatched a language, which were still in their homes, and without
fear any, that would do them no harm, and they did. There was great lack of water in that province
and more for not rained in three months to fill the cisterns that collect it, or had rivers, or
other beverage that makes the cassava root, thus: - They missed a mortar crushed roots, and pulled
the milky juice: if it can be water, also make wine from these roots. There was only one well in this
town, when I put the general sentinel, to distribute water to every year, according to the
measurement given by him, and even with these Providence had great work by the lack of water, and
so many, that we remembered gold and silver, everything was crying for water. This job gave me the
grace, favor and kindness many, because their distribution was not very low, but careful not missing
water and only because she has Sivisicosis war with neighbors. Two days spent in this town
and wondering if we were to move forward or become, cast lots, and went to prosiguiésemos. Informóse
the general land and the Indians said that in six days' journey would come Samocosis the Indians,
and that he would find two streams good for drinking, thus continued our journey, leading some
Sivisicosis to guides, who fled the first night leaving confusing to find the way: but you
were right, and gave the Indians Samocosis, we were in war, not wanting to hear peace: but
easily routed and fled. In the battle we turned some, they told us that in that town had been
left sick Juan Oyola three Christians, when he was in recognizing that land of order of D.
Pedro Mendoza (as told at length in Chapter 25). As to these three Christians, One was called
Geronimo, and was a trumpet, said the Samocosis had died four days the before we arrived,
brought by the Sivisicosis. Paid well this evil, as were fourteen days in town to know where
they had retired, and found that they were in a forest, but not all,
went against them, killed many, and intrigued others, the which informed
us about the nature and habits of this province and his Indians.

CHAPTER XLVII.

Maigenos peoples and Carcokies.

Among other things, the general learned that the Indian nation is four days Maigenos way. Parties
to seek, and we were in war, but strive for peace. The people was located on a hill and surrounded
by a thick cord width everywhere, so high as a man with uplifted sword in his hand.

View your obstinacy forward, with tooth decay, people of two parts: we killed the Maigenos
twelve Christians and some cavities, which served us very well, but continuing with more effort,
we enter by force, and set fire Maigenos and fled: this caused the destruction of many who paid
with their life because of their peers.

Eight days later, 500 Carios armed with secret and without saberle us, they were two or three leagues
of the real, to find the Maigenos who fled, and gave them, they fought with such obstinacy that
killed 300 cavities and large crowds of Maigenos, which were so many that ocupabon about a
league. The Carians sent to ask the general distress alerting that had surrounded the Maigenos
everywhere, unable to return or go forward.

Sent then the general 150 Christians, with some horses, and 1.000 Carias, leaving the other soldiers
guard the real, if I attacked Maigenos. As soon as we spotted the Maigenos when raised their
real and fled, and although we continued with what was possible haste, not we achieve: but
we admired the destruction they had done the decay enemies and those who had been living back with
us, to our real, very happy.

The people are in great abundance of food, so we stopped for four
days on it: juntámonos later, and imagined I was fairly informed of
the land, quality and fruit, appeared to all to continue the voyage,
and continued walking thirteen days in , to walk 52 miles, he said
those who knew the stars, we come to the nation Indians Carcokies:
hence, in nine days, we went in another province, six leagues width
and length, which was all covered with salt, so thick that it seemed
snow white, and never apart.

We rested two days on this earth salt, questioning the way we would go, but he chose the right,
and after four days in the province entered the Carcokies, and generally being four leagues of
his people, sent 50 Christians and 50 Carias, to give us shelter.

We entered the village, and saw the largest crowd of Indians, who had never found so many together,
and grief gave general notice to succor us then.

The general was launched the same evening, and came to us between three and four morning. The
Carcokies, seeing few, were for certain victory, but understanding that the general had followed
us, and were saddened by force, and to keep to their wives and children
who were in town, helped us all, bringing deer meat, and other beasts
and birds, geese, chickens, sheep, ostriches, rabbits, corn, wheat,
rice and some roots, that was abundant in the province.

Bring these Indians on the lips a blue stone, as given, their weapons are darts, spears and
shields of guanaco skins.

The Indians bring pierced lips with a agugero boy, and he a little
blue glass or green cotton dress shirts without sleeves, are quite
beautiful, spin, and care house, and the Indians till the fields and
need to care what other families.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

Guapo river and people near Peru, and part two messengers to Potosi, Silver and Lima.

We took some Carcokies by guides to move forward, and in three days' journey fled: proceeded without
them, and arrived at Rio Chico, half a league wide. We could not pass safely, and to avoid
every two soldiers made a Balsillas, or network of clubs shoots and tissues, where, taken from
the river, we could take the other side, in this step four others
were drowned.

This river is very tasty fish, there are many tigers on earth.

Being a league from the village, located to four of the river, his Indians came to meet us,
guests, in Spanish, of which at first scared us.

[45] Preguntámosles, what Mr. had, and who was its mayor? - responded that they were of a Spanish
nobleman called Peter Anzures.

In this town we found some people, and some critters like fleas [46]
who go jumping, and if they bite on the toes, or elsewhere in the
body, will and gnawing them went, to grow as worms, similar to those
found in walnuts.

If you go in time to remove them, not hurt, but if it expands the choice, you lose the whole
finger.

From Assumption to this people, according to astronomers realized
there are 372 leagues there We were twenty days, and so they got a
letter from Lima, Peru's city of the kingdom in which he lived, and
was viceroy or president, Mr. de la Gasca, who is one for which Gonzalo
Pizarro was beheaded order with other, nobles and commoners, and were
condemned to the galleys.

It sent, by order of the King, life sentence, not the general pass
forward, but to await further orders in the pretty village.

Whose detention was because he feared Gasca that if you go in Peru, and moved a sedition against
him, we would join with Pizarro's followers who were fleeing, as no doubt would have happened if we
had gathered.

In order Gasca and the general concluded, leaving this very happy with the gifts that Sent: all this
was done without knowing the soldiers that if they penetráramos, she would sent to Peru tied hand
and foot.

After the general sent four soldiers to graduate Gasca, who were, the captain of Nuflo Chaves,
Agustin de Campos, Ruti and Rui Miguel Garcia. First came to Potosi, where ill and stayed
Ruti and Garcia, after a call to Cusco, from there to La Plata, [47]
and finally to the metropolitan Lima. These are the four main cities
of Peru and opulentísimas. There Campos Chaves and sailed and came
to Lima, the President, who having heard the relationship of all the
provinces of Rio de la Plata, their qualities and people, sent them
and try to accommodate splendidly, gift with 2.000 ducats and Chaves
commanded to reenter the general, not to leave the soldiers go in
Peru, until further orders, as he had sent, and to ensure they did
not do wrong to the Indians, nor allow them detract from if there
is food. Well we knew they had silver vessels, but they were sugetos
to Spanish did not dare to take away anything. The correct idea of let
go may be studied and better understood by the following experiment or illustration.

Stand with the right arm hanging limp by the side. Lift it to a horizontal position, the back
of the hand upward. While lifting, grip and contract every muscle of the arm and hand out to
the finger-tips. This is much like the contraction placed upon the muscles of the body and
of the throat by the conscious-breathing, local-effort school. Lift the arm again from the
side, and in lifting have the thought or sensation of letting go all contraction of the muscles.
Make the arm light and flexible, and use just enough strength to lift it, and hold it in a
horizontal position. This should be the condition of all the muscles of the body under the
influence of correct, lift, expand, and let go. Lift the arm the third time without contraction
or with the sensation of letting go, hold it in a horizontal position, the back of the hand
upward. Now will to devitalize the entire hand from the wrist to the finger-tips. Let the hand
drop or droop, the arm remaining in a horizontal position. This condition of the hand is the
let go, or the condition of devitalization, which should be upon the muscles of the face, the
mouth, the tongue, the jaw, and the extrinsic muscles of the throat during the act of singing.

Thus, when we say, lift, expand, and let go, we mean lift from the hips, the center of gravity,
in an easy, flexible manner; expand the body with a free movement without conscious thought
of any part of it; have the sensation of letting go all contraction or rigidity, and absolutely
release the muscles of the throat and face. The let go is in reality more a negative than a
positive condition, and virtually means, when you lift and expand, do not locally grip, harden,
or set any muscle of the body, throat, or face.

The lift, expand, and let go must be in proportion to the pitch and power of the tone. This,
if done properly, will result in automatic form and adjustment, the removal of all restraint,
and open, free throat and voice. This is the only way in which it is possible to truly vitalize,
to arouse the physical, mental and emotional powers of the singer. This is the only way in
which it is possible to put yourself and keep yourself upon a level with the tone--upon a level,
physically, mentally and emotionally. This is in truth and in fact the singer's true position
and true condition; this is in truth and in fact self-assertion; and this, and this only, makes
it possible to easily and naturally arouse "the singer's sensation," the true sensation of
artistic singing.

We will take for our first study a simple arpeggio, using the syllables Ya ha, thus:

We use Ya on the first tone, because when sung freely it helps to place the tone well forward.
Ya is pronounced as the German Ja. We use ha on all other tones of this study for the reason
that it is the natural staccato of the voice. Think it and sing it "in glossic" or phonetically,
thus: hA, very little h but full, inflated, expanded A. A full explanation for the use of Ya
and ha may be found in "Position and Action in Singing," page 117. All the studies given in
this little work for the illustration and study of the movements of our system should be sung
on all keys as high and as low as they can be used without effort and without strain.

It has been said that "the production of the human voice is the effect of a muscular effort
born of a mental cause." Therefore it is important to know what to think and how to think it.

We say, put yourself and keep yourself constantly upon a level with the tone, mentally, physically
and emotionally. For the present we have to do with the mental and physical only.

Stand in an easy, natural manner, the hands and arms hanging loosely by the sides. You desire
to sing the above exercise. Turn the palms of the hands up in a free, flexible manner, and
lift the hands up and out a little, not high, not above the waist line. When moving the hands
up and out, move the body from the hips up and out in exactly the same manner and proportion.
The hands and arms must not move faster than the body; the body must move rhythmically with
the arms. This rhythmical movement of body and arms is highly important. In moving, the sensation
is as though the body were lifted lightly and freely upon the palms of the hands. The hands
say to the body, "Follow us." In this way, lift, expand, and let go. Do not raise the shoulders
locally. The movement is from the hips up. The entire body expands easily and freely by letting
go all contraction of muscle. Do not first lift, and after lifting expand, and then finally
try to let go, as is the habit of many; but lift, and when lifting expand, and when lifting
and expanding let go as directed. Three thoughts in one movement--three movements in one--lifting,
expanding, and letting go simultaneously as one movement, which in fact it must finally become.
This is the only way in which it is possible to secure all true conditions of tone.

With this thought in mind, and having tried the movement without singing, sing the above exercise.
Start from repose, as described, and by using the hands and body in a free, flexible manner,
move to what you might think should be the level of the first tone. Just when you reach the
level of the first tone let the voice sing. Move up with the arpeggio to the highest note,
using hands, body, and voice with free, flexible action; then move body and hands with the
voice down to the lowest note of the arpeggio; when the last tone is sung go into a position
of repose.

The movement from repose to the level of the first tone is highly important, for the reason
that it arouses the energies of the singer, and secures all true conditions through automatic
form and adjustment. Do not hesitate, do not hurry. All movement must be rhythmical and spontaneous,
and never the result of effort. In singing the arpeggio the tones of the voice must be strictly
staccato; but the movement of the hands and body must be very smooth, even, and continuous--no
short, jerky movements.

The movement of the body is very slight, and at no time, in studying these first exercises,
should the hands be raised above the level of the hips or of the waist line. Of course with
beginners these movements may be more or less exaggerated. When singing songs, however, they
do not show, at least not nearly as much as wrong breathing and wrong effort. They simply give
the singer the appearance of proper dignity, position, and self-assertion. By all means use
the hands in training the movements of the body. You can train the body by the use of the hands
in one-fourth of the time that it is possible to do it without using them. Be careful, however,
not to raise the hands too high, as is the tendency; when lifted too high the energy is often
put into the hands and arms instead of the body; in this way the body is not properly aroused
and influenced, and of course true conditions are not secured.

"Practical rules must rest upon theory, and theory upon nature, and nature is ascertained by
observation and experience." Now, if you will practice this arpeggio with a free, flexible
movement of hands and body, getting under the tone, as it were, and moving to a level of every
tone, you will soon find by practice and experience that these movements are perfectly natural,
that they arouse all the forces which nature gave us for the production of tone, that they
vitalize the singer and give freedom to the voice. By moving properly to a level of the first
tone you secure all true conditions of tone; and if you have placed yourself properly upon
a level with the high tone, when that is reached you will have maintained those true conditions--you
will have freedom, inflation and vitality instead of contraction and strain.

By moving with the voice in this flexible manner we bring every part of the body into action,
and apply strength as nature demands it, without effort or strain. Remember, there is no strength
properly applied in singing without movement. In this way the voice is an outward manifestation
of an inward feeling or emotion. "The voice is your inner or higher self, expressed not at
or by but through the vocal organs, aided by the whole body as a sound-board."

Our next study will be a simple arpeggio sung with the la sound, thus:

This movement, of course, must be sung with the same action of hands and body, starting from
repose to the level of the first tone, and keeping constantly upon a level with the voice by
ascending and descending. Sing this exercise first semi staccato, afterwards legato.

The special object of this exercise is to relax the jaw, the face, and the throat muscles.
A stiff, set jaw always means throat contraction. In this exercise, if sung in every other
respect according to directions, a stiff jaw would defeat the whole thing, and make impossible
a correct production of every high tone.

In singing the la sound, the tip of the tongue touches the roof of the mouth, just back of
the upper front teeth. Think the tone forward at this point, and let the jaw rise and fall
with the tongue. Devitalize the jaw and the muscles of the face, move up in a free, flexible
manner to the level of every tone, and you will be surprised at the freedom and ease with which
the high tones come. The moving up in the proper way applies strength, and secures automatic
form and adjustment; develops or strengthens the resisting or controlling muscles of the voice;
in fact, gives the voice expansion, inflation, and tonicity.

Remember that one can act in singing; and by acting I mean the movements as here described,
lifting, expanding, etc., without influencing the voice or the tone, without applying the movements
to the voice; of course such action is simply an imitation of the real thing. Herein, however,
lies the importance of correct thinking. The thought must precede the action. The singer must
have some idea of what he wants to sing and how he wants to sing it. A simple chance, a simple
hit or miss idea, will not do. Make your tone mean something. Arouse the singer's sensation,
and you can soon tell whether the movement is influencing the tone or not. Of course these
movements are all more easily applied on the middle and low tones than on the higher tones,
but these are the great successful movements for the study and development of the high tones.

As we have learned in our former publications, there are but three movements in singing,--ascending,
descending, and level movements. We have so far studied ascending and descending movements
or arpeggios. We will now study level movements on a single tone, thus:

Place yourself in a free, flexible manner upon a level with the tone by the use of the movements
as before described; lift, expand, and let go without hurrying or without hesitation, and just
when you reach that which you feel to be the level of the tone let the voice sing. All must
be done in a moment, rhythmically and without local effort. Sing spontaneously, sing with abandon,
trust the movements. They will always serve you if you trust them. If you doubt them, they
are doubtful; for your very doubt brings hesitation, and hesitation brings contraction. Sing
from center to circumference, with the thought of expansion and inflation, and not from outside
to center. The first gives freedom and fullness of form, the latter results in local effort
and contraction. The first sends the voice out full and free, the latter restrains it. Expansion
through flexible movement is the important point to consider. When the tone is thus sung, it
should result in the removal of all restraint, especially from the face, jaw, and throat. In
this way the tone will come freely to the front, and will flow or float as long as the level
of the tone is maintained without effort.

Remember the most important point is the movement from repose to the level of the tone. If
this is done according to directions, all restraint will be removed and all true conditions
will prevail. Never influence form. Let form and adjustment be automatic, the result of right
thought, position, and action. Study to constantly make these movements of the body easier
and more natural. Take off all effort. Do not work hard. It is not hard work. It is play. It
is a delight when properly done. Make no conscious, direct effort of any part of the body.
Never exaggerate the movement or action of one part of the body at the sacrifice of the true
position of another. The tendency is to locally raise the chest so high that the abdomen is
unnaturally drawn in. This, of course, is the result of local effort, and is not the intention
of the movements. The center of gravity must be at the hips; and all movement above that must
be free, flexible, and uniform.[1]

[Footnote 1: In this connection, see Supplementary Note, page 135.]

Do not give a thought to any wrong thing you may be in the habit of doing in singing, but place
your mind upon freeing the voice, upon the removal of all restraint through these flexible
vitalized movements: think the ideal tone and sing. When the right begins to come through these
movements the wrong must go. Over and against every wrong there is a right. We remove the wrong
by developing the right. Sing in a free, flexible manner, the natural power of the voice. Make
no effort to suppress the tone or increase its power. After the movements are understood and
all restraint is removed, then study the tone on all degrees of power, but remember when singing
soft and loud, and especially loud, that the first principle of artistic singing is the removal
of all restraint.

Theory.--The singing breath should be as unconscious,--or, rather, as sub-conscious,--as involuntary,
as the vital or living breath. It should be the result of flexible action, and never of local
muscular effort. The muscular breath compels muscular control; hence throat contraction. The
nervous breath, nervous control; hence relaxation and loss of breath.

Devices.--Expand to breathe. Do not breathe to expand. Expand by flexible, vitalized movements;
control by position the level of the tone, and thus balance the two forces, "pressure and resistance."
In this way is secured automatic adjustment and absolute automatic breath-control.

More has probably been written and said upon this important question of breathing in singing
than upon any other question in the broad field of the vocal art; and yet the fact remains
that it is less understood than any of the really great principles of correct singing. This
is due to the fact that most writers, teachers, and singers believe that they must do something--something
out of the ordinary--to develop the breathing powers. The result is, that most systems of breathing
are artificial; therefore unnatural. Most systems of breathing attempt to do by direct effort
that which Nature alone can do correctly. Most breathing in singing is the result of direct
conscious effort.

The conscious or artificial breath is a muscular breath, and compels muscular control. The
conscious breath--the breath that is taken locally and deliberately (one might almost say maliciously)
before singing--expands the body unnaturally, and thus creates a desire to at once expel it.
In order to avoid this, the singer is compelled to harden and tighten every muscle of the body;
and not only of the body, but of the throat as well. Under these conditions the first principle
of artistic tone-production--the removal of all restraint--is impossible.

As the breath is taken, so must it be used. Nature demands--aye, compels--this. If we take
(as we are so often told to do) "a good breath, and get ready," it means entirely too much
breath for comfort, to say nothing of artistic singing. It means a hard, set diaphragm, an
undue tension of the abdominal muscles, and an unnatural position and condition of the chest.
This of course compels the hardening and contraction of the throat muscles. This virtually
means the unseating of the voice; for under these conditions free, natural singing is impossible.
The conscious, full, muscular breath compels conscious, local muscular effort to hold it and
control it. Result: a stiff, set, condition of the face muscles, the jaw, the tongue and the
larynx. This makes automatic vowel form, placing, and even freedom of expression, impossible.
The conscious, artificial breath is a handicap in every way. It compels the singer to directly
and locally control the parts. In this way it is not possible to easily and freely use all
the forces which Nature has given to man for the production of beautiful tone. 

Lambaré do a castle, with the name of the Assumption, and Carias, with relief Christians, are
against the CAAC.

Mandóse after the Carians that would make a great house of stone,
earth and wood, for safety and defense of Christians, should lift
the Indians.

We stayed here for two months.

Carios also offered the help in the war, and that if it was against Agac (which 30 leagues distant
from them, and about 334 of Good Hope Island, populated by Timbúes) 18.000 that would give Indians.
Whereupon our captain ordered 300 Spanish, and went with them and tooth decay Paraguay River
30 miles to the village of Agac, who were sleeping on the site that they had left. Reconociéronlo the
Carias, and suddenly fell upon them, between 3 and 4 in the morning,
and slew all his enemies, old and young, according to the custom they
have when they are victorious.

We took about 500 canoes after we burned all the towns where we, with other damage. After a
month came some Agac, that had not been found in the ruin of stay away from this land, asking
forgiveness.

The captain consented, according to the order of King, and admitted
of peace, as it should do, although pidiesen third time, because only
if they rebel later, slaves were perpetual.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Are the soldiers in the Assumption; recognize the site and condition of the land, and move up
the river above.

In six months we were in this city, we repaired to the stillness, and as our Oyola captain was informed
of the Payaguá that are populated by about 100 miles of the Assumption, to the banks of the
Paraguay River, as he said cavities, and that was their main food hunting and fishing, and also
had carob flour that made eating with fish, and wine as sweet as
our wine.

Then he commanded five ships loaded Oyola corn, and prevent of all things necessary, and give
to the sailors as they needed for the proper event the journey, the two months that he meditated.
First I wanted to make war with the Indians Payaguá, and then to the Caracas. Attending all
the cavities with carefully and submission, and they promised faithfully obey all orders from the
captain spots.

Ordered so referred, and prevented the ship around, the captain chose
300 soldiers, better armed and compounds, and left 100 in the city
of the Assumption.

River always sailing above, at five miles we reached a pueblezuelo, whose Indians trageron meat,
poultry, geese, sheep and ostriches, and came to the last village of Carias, called Itatin,
distant 80 miles of the Assumption, Indians gave their supplies and other things that we helped.

CHAPTER
XXIV.

Mount San Fernando and Peyaguás.

From there we got to the mountain called San Fernando, similar to that called Bogemberg [17], and
we Payaguá the Indians, 12 miles from Itatin: recibiéronnos peace, even feigned as learned later,
brought it home, and treated us with fish, meat, locust bean Pan
or John, so we were nine days.

Ask the captain if he made them the nation knew Xarayes called, said they had heard, who lived
away in a rich province gold and silver, but no Indian had ever seen any of it: and by relation
of others, He added that they were as wise as Christians, and abounding in corn, or cassava
cazabí, mandubís, yams and other roots, of sheep or elk meat, like animals donkeys whose feet
are like a cow, the skin thickness; of rabbits, deer, geese, chickens, and other things that we
learned after the fact.

Asked the captain to guide the Payaguá, to go into that province,
and offered ready; and about 300 Indians ordered his captain to go
with us and brought us food and other things.

Published our captain the journey in four days, sending it proveyesen
all what is necessary for this company: three ships broke, leaving
50 Christians in the two, with orders that were there.

[18] Four months waiting, and if not return at the end, retreated to the Assumption: we were waiting
six months without knowing anything about John Oyola, and lack the
supplies, it was necessary to return to Domingo de Irala, who had
been by our captain, to the city of Assumption, as our captain had
ordered.

CHAPTER XXV.

Juan Oyola comes to the land of the Naperús and Samocosis, and is dead to the back with all Christians.

Juan
Party Oyola with 300 Spanish and 300 Indians, came to the Naperús, friends and allies of Payaguá,
which remained hunting and fishing. It populous nation, and she took some Oyola Indians for guides,
because I had to walk between several nations, as did full of jobs and lack of all: many resisted
him with weapons, and killed half the people. Samocosis the Indians came, and could not go
forward, and leaving three Spanish patients with these Indians, set out the work, he turned
with all his family. John descanzo Oyola with his people, weary of the road, three days in Naper,
and although it came good, understood Indians did not bring ammunition and weapons, which covered
the Naperús and Payaguá, to kill, and they got it: for having left
Naper, Christians Oyola with to go to the Payaguá, being almost in
the middle of the road on them suddenly gave great multitude of these
two nations, (hidden in the forest meant for this betrayal, where
had to pass), and as rabid dogs killed the captain and his soldiers,
healthy and patients without escape.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Seeing death of his captain, the Spanish elected in his place Domingo Martinez de Irala.

We knew the treachery of Payaguá, by an Indian [19] who had been slave Oyola, the which ran from
the enemy to know the language, but did not give him full credit,
although it had all that had happened, from the beginning to the end
of the set pitiful.

So we were a year in the city of Assumption, unaware of our people other than the above, and what the
captain had Carios Irala, and be publicly known that Payaguá and Naperús he had died. But for
sure, we wanted to hear from the mouth of one of the Payaguá.

Two months later, some cavities comprises two Payaguá, and trageron the captain, and asking if
they had helped to kill our men, denied it, saying that even our captain had not returned
to his own province.

Gave them to torture, and confessed the truth, and what is mentioned
in chapter history, sending them to burn the captain tied to a suit,
surrounded by a large fire.

Then we choose as captain to said Irala, until the King ordered otherwise, for had always been
fair and kind, especially with the soldiers.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Captain prison places in the Assumption, going to the Timbúes and casualties is: let Antonio
de Mendoza in Corpus Christi, and sails to Buenos Aires.

He then Captain provide four brigs, and 150 Spanish Village, sailing down Paraguay and Parana
rivers. The second, leaving the other people in the Assumption, with orders to join the 150 who
were in Thimphu, and to the 160 of the ships of Buenos Aires, came to the Timbúes, or Good Hope, and
Fort Corpus Christi, where our people had been, but we found the land without Indians, because
the Captain Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan, presbyter, Juan Hernandez, clerk, they were like governors,
after several treatment infidels and evil, had killed the chief of the Timbúes and other Indians,
and the rest is fled, of whom we had received many benefits. So sad knowing evil, we are amazed,
and our captain entrusted to Antonio de Mendoza Fort Corpus Christi, leaving 120 men and supplies,
in order to guard against the Indians, being always alert with good guards, and if the Indians
should come to peace, to treat them with love, making few attentions were possible, and avoiding
all who attempt to harm them, and them Christians, and looking each other with the utmost diligence.
Thus returned to ship, carrying get to Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan and Hernandez, author of the infamous
death of the Indians. When they were to sail, was a principal Indian Thimphu, great friend of
the Christians, was compelled to follow his men, by his wife, children, relatives and family, which
permission to advise the captain who did not leave there any Christian,
for all the people of war of the province was settled or to kill them,
or out of the land.

The captain replied he would return soon, and people leaving enough
to resist the Indians, and begged it came, the Christians, with his
wife, children and families, and they promised, and leaving Corpus
Christi, embarked the captain.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Timbúes treacherously kill 50 Spanish: forsake the other the strength of Corpus Christi, and shipped
to Buenos Aires.

After eight days, more or less, the chief sent his brother, but treacherous, treacherously,
asking our captain Mendoza six soldiers with rifles and other weapons, to spend to us with
all their wealth and family to live forever. Pondered the fear that had at the Thimphu, and the
lack of security to come without this relief, offered, as a friend request all our convenience,
bring many provisions, and an abundance of other things. Persuaded the captain, not only gave
him 6, but 50 well-armed Spanish musketeers, charging that go with restraint, caution and
concern, to get rid of the damage they could cause the Indians who were half a league from us.
The 50 Spanish arrived in front of their houses, Timbúes were greeted with the peace of Judas:
ofreciéronles fishing and hunting, and to start eating, they were about friends and enemies,
that looked to others that had been hidden at home, with such fury and haste, that it is a
boy named Caldera escaped from their hands, none was saved.

And by continuing to rage, we envistieron 10.000, and stood upon the strong fourteen calendar
days, with intent to destroy us, but God mercifully stopped him. Traian long spears, swords
they had taken to the Christians killed by spikes, and fought with them and other weapons, night and
day, for take the fort, but could not.

After fourteen days, they gave the last envestida, stubborn throwing all his strength, and set fire
to the houses. Out came the captain Antonio de Mendoza with a sword by a door in which the
Indians had set his helmet, well hidden, and just gave it when he crossed Indians with spears, falling
to a standstill. God wanted them to food over Indians, and could not stay over, lifted the siege
and were thus rested, and more with two launches that sent our captain of Buenos Aires, with
provisions and ammunition, so that we could hold until we come back, which caused us great joy.
But it was greater sadness that the death of Christians instilled
in the newcomers, and not finding another way to restore, by mutual
agreement we decided to abandon Corpus Christi, and become to Buenos
Aires, as egecutamos with all people.

Scared our arrival the captain, and vehemently was overwhelmed by
the ruin of the people, not knowing he would do, for lacking the other
provisions and the need for any business.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A ship arrives in Spain with people to the island of Santa Catalina, where they go to ours in a boat.

Fifteen days had were in Buenos Aires, there fell a caravel to Spain, and warned us Santa Catalina
to be in a ship with 200 men, who came by Captain Alonso Cabrera. Al make available about our
captain ordered another small ship that was to Brazil, to Santa Catalina,
[20] which was about 300 miles from Buenos Aires.

Posted by captain Gonzalo de Mendoza, with orders if we find them in Santa Catalina, loaded
with rice, cassava and other supplies that his sight. Asked the captain Gonzalo de Mendoza
7 soldiers, who could be trusted, and chose 6 Spanish, and to me and 20 others to join us.

Sailed a month, and we arrived at Santa Catalina, where he was the ship we were looking, with Captain
Alonso Cabrera and his people, with which we rejoice much, and spent two months with it. As we
loaded our ship with rice, manioc and corn, and left with both ships and the captain and his
soldiers Cabrera Alonso de Santa Catalina, sailing to Buenos Aires; and lies just 20 miles from
the city, the eve of All Saints, in the Paraná River, asked sailors to each other, if they were
already in the river Paraná. Ours said that if, and they said the other ship still missing 20
leagues: we already know that when many ships make a journey together, as the sun sets each pilot
asked the other how much has sailed?; With what wind is to sail at night, not to depart? The
Paraná River is 30 miles Guazú wide to the gulf or mouth, which run 50 continuous miles to the port
of San Gabriel, which has only 18 miles wide. Our pilot told the other ship if I wanted to follow,
to which he replied that it was almost dark, and wanted to sit in
the sea to the sun, and not come ashore in the night without storm.

This pilot trial had more than we in government the ship, as stated
after the incident, and yet we continued his journey, leaving there.

CHAPTER XXX.

Our ship sinks, leaving some to land in San Gabriel, and then go to Buenos Aires and to the
Assumption.

Evening sail to near midnight, an hour before the sun rose so high storm, although we saw land
to a league or more, we could not take it, or drop anchor, or find another choice but to vote, and
imploring the divine mercy. Then at same time took our ship to pieces, and drowned 15 Spanish,
that we could never find corpse any, and 6 Indians. Others, clinging to some wood, were saved by
swimming: I went out with 5 partners tree clinging to the ship. We were on the ground naked
and without food, having lost everything, and having to walk 50 miles
by land, we were obliged to keep rootlet and other fruits in the field
to the port of San Gabriel, where he had come 30 days before the other
ship with Cabrera.

The General, who understood our misfortune, he was very sad with theirs, and persuading all had
perished, he had to say some masses for our souls.

Lleváronnos to Buenos Aires, and General indicted the captain and
pilot, and wanted to hang him, but by great intercession, was only
sentenced to four years to a brig.

All together in Buenos Aires,
sent the General to dispatch the launches, and they all the soldiers
had burned the other ships, and store iron. There is no strength properly applied in
singing except through movement; through correct movement all the forces which nature has given
the singer are indirectly brought into action; in this way there is constant physical and vocal
development.

Every tone sung, as we have learned, is a reinforced sound. There are two ways of reinforcing
tone. First, by muscular tension, muscular contraction, muscular effort--the wrong way. Second,
by vitalized energy, by expansion, and by added resonance of air in the inflated cavities--the
right way. Of course to produce expansion and inflation, true conditions of form and adjustment
must prevail, through the movements given.

Form has much to do with determining the quality and character of the tone. Muscular effort,
either in placing or reinforcing the tone, results in muscular contraction, and in most cases
in elliptical form of voice, thus: [drawn horizontal oval] This means depressed soft palate,
high larynx, contraction of the fauces, closed throat, and spread open mouth. Result--high
placing impossible, no low color or reinforcement; in short, hard muscular tone. The tone may
be loud but it cannot be musical.

The true musical form of the voice is elongation, thus: [drawn vertical oval] This means high
placing and low resonance; it means that the tone has the ring of forward high placing and
the reinforcement, color, and beauty of added low resonance. Elongation is a distinguishing
feature of all truly great voices.

For artistic tone, the soft palate must be high, the larynx must be low, and the throat and
mouth allowed to form, not made or compelled. The form must be flexible and elastic. The larynx
must be low in adjustment for the production of beautiful tone, but it must never be locally
adjusted. It must always be influenced indirectly through the movements we advocate, through
the true position and action of singing. In this way are secured open throat, freedom of voice,
all true conditions. In this way the tone may be placed by impulse, by flexible action, may
be started high and instantly reflected into the inflated cavities. This means perfect poise
of voice; it means the focus of the tone high and forward with the sympathetic added vibration
of the low cavities and especially of the chest. This is the only true placing of voice,--the
combination of head and chest resonance through automatic form and adjustment. A tight throat
through local, muscular effort makes these conditions impossible.

The true resonance-chamber then, as we have found, is from head to chest; sympathetically the
resonance of the entire body must be added. The true artist sings with the body, through the
throat, and never with the throat. In this way the entire singer is the instrument. Fill the
body with sound. The higher the tone the more elongated the form. Nature demands this. If this
does not occur contraction and depression are sure to follow. Also the higher the tone the
lower the added resonance, when the conditions are right. In this way the form elongates and
the compass expands without effort or strain. These ideas studied through flexible movements
are truly wonderful, but natural means for expanding the compass of the voice.

Much has been written lately on the subject of open tones. Should the tones be opened or closed,
is the question. Tone should never be closed. It should always be open, but never out. If it
is out of the mouth it is not a singing sound. Even the real covered tones of the voice should
never be closed. The truth is, the form of the covered tones of the voice, through elongation,
is larger than the form of those which we call the open tones, in contradistinction to the covered.

In the clear timbre of the voice, the bright tone, the ring of high placing, predominates.
In somber timbre, the dark tone, low resonance, or low color, predominates. In medium tone
both are heard or felt more equally. None of this coloring or reinforcing must be done by locally
influencing form or placing. The voice must be perfectly free; and the result must be due to
sentiment, feeling, emotion, to the effect it may be desired to produce. If all restraint is
removed, if true conditions prevail, this can always be done through the singer's sensation,
through the use of the third power. It is marvelous how, under right conditions, the voice
will respond to thought, to sentiment, to feeling.

"The tone thus produced and thus delivered, with perfect breath-control, will set the whole
body sympathizing, from the sole of the foot to the crown of the head. And it is only tones
like these--that it is possible to so adorn, and decorate, and beautify, with the due amount
of emphasis, and accurate intensity of emotional feelings, and exquisitely shaded and ever-varying
tinges of color in expression--that can prove capable of captivating the heart of the hearer,
that can graphically impress the listener with such sentiments as the vocalist desires to convey."

We will take for our first study a single tone about the middle of the voice. In studying placing
and resonance, we must of course observe all the rules laid down in regard to the action, position,
etc. Do not take a voluntary breath before acting--do not start the tone before the action,
two things which require constant watching on the part of the beginner. Either of them will
virtually cause defeat.

Remove all obstruction by seeking the level of the tone through flexible action. Think the
tone forward and high. Place by impulse, and never by local effort. Have the sensation as though
the tone started forward and high, as though it impinged against the roof of the mouth, and
instantly reflected into the low cavities, and especially into the chest. In doing this, relax
the jaw, let go all face and throat contraction, expand the body, and think and feel the chest
vibrant and filled with tone. In this way the tone may be started high and reinforced or built
down by the added resonance of all the inflated cavities.

Another way to do this, is to start the tone spontaneously by impulse through correct action;
in doing so, think and feel as though the tone placed and reflected at the same instant, forward
against the roof of the mouth and on the chest,--as though the contact or impingement of the
tone were felt at both places simultaneously. Of course the high forward placing in mouth and
face is the true placing, and the sensation on the chest is the action or reflection of the
true placing. This can be done through flexible vitalized action alone. With a tight throat
or local muscular effort it is impossible. This is perfect attack, and in this way all force
and push are avoided. In this way freedom and inflation are secured, that condition which unites
head and chest resonance.

Think of a rubber pouch filled with air. Imagine you grasp it in the middle with the hand,
and close the hand tight. The upper part of this pouch represents the face and high forward
placing. That below the hand, or the lower part, the chest resonance. The first was executed Gotthard
Arthus was whose version inserted 7.ma De Bry in part. of its large collection of voyages: and so
imperfect Hulsio seemed to Levin when confronted with the original, it was decided to undertake
another translation, which appeared in Nuremberg in 1599, adding the portrait of author, with
several sheets of fruits and animals of Paraguay, and two maps, one of America the north and
the other from the south, although incorrect, are not without some merit for the time they
occurred.

Of these versions is worth D. Gabriel Cardenas to the epitome he published
in 1731, and Barcia reproduced in the third volume of his early history
of the West Indies.

Although the notes and index that accompanied it, did not illustrate it, and only may get to
see the text, which would have done if we had found.

But of all the works dealing with the conquest of the Rio de la Plata, is that of Schmidel the rarest,
most can be taken by irreperible.

To get any benefit from our reprints, we have emended some words whose mistake was clear: as, for example,
by Charrúas Zechurvas; Carendi by Querandís; Aigais by Agac; Salvascho by Salazar, Luchs by
Lujan, Richkel for Riquelme; Daber by Tabaré; Gratia Amiego by Vanessa Garcia; palmela for halibut,
thistles and evening, for thistles and darts, etc..: - and we multiplied these corrections if
we had stopped the fear of tangling over the text of a writer whose
diary is the first monument of our history, and the only source they
should drink proposing to continue the first steps of the Europeans
in these remote regions.

Schmidel judgments sometimes resent the spirit that prevailed then in the conquerors all divided
into factions and biases, and failure to pronounce on the conduct of Governor Cabeza de Vaca, illustrious
name in the annals of conquest, disagree with the facts to us by other contemporary historians.
But regardless of these moles, prudent that every reader can discern, deserve credit data has been
collected, and only the mention that makes so many places, tribes,
customs and events, has been preserved of forgetting, which has swallowed
up many other memories.

Whether you were endowed with an imagination more temperate or more
mature trial, is that distrust what others said, is ciñeae refer to
what he himself observed, it is true that he be considered the most
circumspect writer of his time.

German language, that he used to write your notes, and Latin in which they were reproduced,
were the most apropos to generalize, so for nearly two centuries were ignored. Also contributed
to this neglect the little case that made the Spanish of their establishments in countries
devoid of mine: the exploitation was long the object exclusive of the administration of its colonies,
and so general was the prestige egercian in the public these rich
products, perverted to the trial of historians, whose admiration focused
on the conquerors of Peru and Mexico.

However, neither were lower risk, and no less heroic sacrifices of those who invaded the other
parts of America, and to ponder what it cost the occupation of Paraguay,
just Schmidel follow in quick but brilliant look that gives over twenty
years he spent in the New World, surrounded by people of a wild and
savage nature.

Overworked, sought and obtained permission to return to his homeland, and escorted by twenty
Indians decay, or Guarani, only fruit of his long pilgrimage in America, crossed the Guaira,
to arrive soon to San Vicente, where he hoped to find a ship to Europe. This way, no more footprints
preserved, Cabeza de Vaca, about being impraticable by the rough terrain, was guarded by swarms
of savages that are nested in their lengthy and impenetrable forests. Entire villages came out
to dispute the passage, and to all put up a brave resistance, seconded by his faithful companions,
in spite of being Indian defended a European.

Finally reached the end of his journey sighed, and sat in Portuguese ship that brought him
to Lisbon.

Commissioned by the Governor Martinez de Irala to put in the hands of the king a detailed part
major occurrences of his administration, he went to Seville, where he was that time the Emperor
Charles V, and the audience gave him that sovereign, he said verbally
more news to those which contained the report of Irala.

This document is very important for the history of our provinces, if not lost in the hands
of the King, should be in Sevilla or Simancas, in the jumble of papers
piled on file.

Freed Schmidel all its commitments, he sailed for Antwerp, where it
was restored the bosom of his family after twenty years of absence.

PEDRO DE ANGELIS.

Buenos Aires, September 16, 1836.

Voyage to RIO DE LA PLATA.

CHAPTER I.

Of navigation of Antwerp to Spain.

The year 1534, I left Antwerp sailed for Spain, arrived at Cadiz in 14 days, sailing 480 miles,
and saw a whale off the coast of 35 steps, which filled 30 barrels oil. There was in the port 14
large vessels prevented to go to Rio de la Plata, Spanish 2.500 and 150 German, Flemish and
Saxon, with its Captain General, D. Pedro de Mendoza, and 72 horses é mares. One of these ships
was Noarto and James Belzar Sebastian, that Henry was Peyne, the factor, with goods to the Rio
de la Plata, in which I embarked with about 80 Germans and Flemish, well armed. The day we left the
port of San Bartolomé, 1534, with the army, and arrived at San Lucar, which is 20 miles from Seville,
where we stopped by the stormy the sea.

CHAPTER II.

Of navigation from Spain to the Canaries.

A first of September, quiet time, we left San Lucar, and reached three islands far between, called
Tenerife, Gomera and Palma, are far from San Lucar 200 leagues [1]; abundant sugar, divided
the army there. Inhabit these islands with their Spanish wives and children, and are the domain
of the King.

Spent four weeks with three ships in the Palma providing us with victuals, until orders came
from D. Pedro de Mendoza to continue journey. Our ship was a relative of D. Peter, called D. Jorge
Mendoza, who had fallen in love the daughter of a neighbor of the Palm: the last day for having
weighed anchor, went ashore D. Jorge with twelve companions, about twelve o'clock at night, and stole,
bringing to the ship with a maid, her dresses, jewels and money and
secretly brought it into our ship, without the captain Enrique Peyne
know anything.

Only the guards warned him that it had seen.

We started to sail in the morning, and at two or three leagues of journey, time went so hard we went
back to the harbor and cast anchor. Enrique Peyne was in the boat ashore, and wanting take it,
he saw 30 men armed with guns and swords, they wanted to arrest him, and knowing his crew urged him
to not come out to the ground.

He tried to go in hurry, but less than he wanted, because navichuelos
followed him into the ground and threatened.

At last they got rid of another ship closer to land.

Displaying the Canaries could not catch him, they play to challenge, and trageron two shots, which
fired four times against the nearest ship. The first broke up a pot of water, arrobas four or
five, the second broke the last tree on the ship and the third was a large hole in the side, killing
a man, and even missed the fourth, was very badly treated the ship.

Was anchored in the harbor another captain who was to Mexico, and he ground with 150 men: which,
having learned the robbery of the wife, sought peace between us and the city that were given D. Jorge
de Mendoza, the daughter and the maid, and having entered the master Peyne and the governor
of the island in our ship to the agreement egecutar, D. Jorge said, that this was his wife, and her
that her husband and to the point were married with great pain and sadness the girl's father.

CHAPTER III.

Of navigation from palm to Green Island or Hesperides, which also
call for Cape Verde.

Captain Don left Jorge on the ground with his wife, and repaired the ship as he could, sail to
the island of Santiago, sugeta the King of Portugal, who obey blacks, and far from the Palma 200 leagues.
There were five days, and provide new our ship of bread, meat, water and other food, and necessities
to the sailors.

CHAPTER IV.

Of navigation from Green Island to Brazil.

They returned to join the 14 ships of any navy, and began to sail,
and after two months came to an uninhabited island six miles wide
and long, distant 500 miles from Santiago, [2] they only had birds,
but so many, that we killed sticks: we were in it three days.

There is in this sea flying fish, whales and others that are called
Schunbhut, [3] by a large circle that is about the head with that
much damage to fish with whom Fight: is big fish, a lot of strength,
and easily irritated.

There is also this sea swordfish, which have in the way to muzzle a bone knife, saw fish, which have manner
of a saw and several other major genres.

CHAPTER V.

Del Rio called Janero.

We arrived at a certain island named after Rio Janero, where the French settled in the year of 1555
(Then and now, the King of Portugal). Far from the first 200 miles: call to his Indian Sliding.
Here were 14 days, and then our General, D. Pedro de Mendoza, being
continuously sick, shriveled and weak nerves, appointed by his lieutenant
to John Osorio, [4] his brother.

But shortly after accepting the position, was accused of rebellion
against Mendoza by which, ordered four captains, who were: Juan de
Oyola, Juan Salazar, Jorge Lujan and Lazaro Salazar, stab and kill
him to save him at the plaza, so that all might see him dead a traitor,
and published side with death, that no one gets excited because of
Osorio, because the same thing would happen to him.

In which it was conducted without good cause, because Osorio was
good, honest, strong soldier, informal, liberal and very beloved by
his peers.

CHAPTER VI.

Del Rio de la Plata or Paraná, the port of San Gabriel and Charrúas.

From here we set out to find the Rio de la Plata [5], and we reached another river, sweet,
called Paraná-wolf: far east of the mouth that falls into the sea, and is 42 miles wide. From
the Rio Janero to him there are 215 leagues.

Here we arrive at the port of San Gabriel, the 14 ships anchored in the Parana River, and
because they were distant shot bullet sent the General D. Pedro de Mendoza, saliésemos that soldiers
and other people on shore, in boats prevented this effect. So we happily to the Rio de la Plata
in 1535, and found there an Indian village of which 2.000 had called
Charrúas, which have no more food than hunting and fishing, and walk
all naked.

The women bring only thin cotton cloth from the waist to the knees.

All fled when they saw us, with their wives and children, and we
were to embark sent Mendoza to move to the other side of the river,
there had not more than eight miles wide.

CHAPTER VII.

In the city of Buenos Aires and Indians Querandíes.

On this site we did a city, we call Buenos Aires, [6] as healthy there were those who ran. We
find in this land of nearly 3,000 other Indian people called Querandíes, with their wives and children
who walk as Charrúas: they brought us meat and fish. These Querandíes no fixed abode; roam the
earth as Gypsies. When you walk in summer (usually more than 30 leagues), but are water, or the
root of thistles, but food quenches thirst, kill the deer or the wild animal they encounter,
and drink the blood, and it did, perhaps die of thirst. Fourteen days brought real fish and meat,
and because they missed one Mendoza sent to Ruiz Galan, judge, and two other soldiers to them
(who were four leagues). But the Indians were mistreated and returned to the camp with three
wounded.

Mendoza seeing this, and that Galan was maintained with people, sent
his brother, D. Diego Mendoza, with 300 soldiers and 30 good horses
(among whom was I) command, that taking the people of the Indians,
kindle or kill them all.

But when we already had 4.000 Indians from their friends and family, life.

CHAPTER VIII.

In the battle with the Indians Querandíes.

Wanting to run them down, we resisted, fighting so fiercely that killed
Don Diego de Mendoza, 6 knights, and to about 20 soldiers on foot
and horseback. Indians nearly 1,000 died. They fought hard and courageously
with their bows and arrows, gender lancilla, half way to lance with
sharp flint, and three points as trisulco. They have balls of stone,
tied to a long string, like our artillery [7]: échanlas at the feet
of the horses (or of the deer when hunting), until they fell, and
with these balls they killed our captain and the gentlemen referred
to, and to the footmen, with their darts, which I saw. But, despite
his resistance, and we beat his people, taken alive were unsuccessful
but none, not even women and children, because once it's had taken
to another place. In the village we found the skins of otters, a lot
of fish, flour and butter fish. Detuvímonos three days into it, and
returned to camp, leaving behind a hundred men, which the interim
fish with nets to supply the Indian people, because those waters are
wonderfully abundant fish. Distributed food, to every one, three ounces
flour, and every three days, a fish, and if I wanted more, had to
go fishing four leagues there: this fishery lasted two months.

CHAPTER
IX.

Of the population of Buenos Aires, and hunger that is suffering.

Returned
to our camp was divided people to the work of the city and the war,
applying each to craft appropriate. Began to build the city and up
to around a ground near three feet wide, and a spear high, but what
was done today fell morning, and within it a strong house for the
governor. All were suffering so much misery many were dying of hunger,
nor were enough to remedy the horses. Increased this anxiety have
already missed the cats, mice, snakes and other little creatures that
they used to tune it unclean, and ate up the shoe and other leather. It will be found that in the most beautiful voice the tone will be common-place,
meaningless; in many voices it will be simply sound. Now place yourself in every way upon a
higher, a more lofty plane. Think of higher ideas and ideals. In other words, idealize the
tone. Remember, the ideal is the truth, and not exaggeration. Appeal to your emotional energy,
the singer's sensation, and give expression to thought and feeling aroused in this way. Give
expression to an actual life-throb, whether it be of love or hate, of joy or sadness, of ecstasy
or despair. The result, the change of tone, character, and quality, will be astonishing, will
ofttimes be electrifying. In this way make the tone actually mean something. Feel like a singer,
assert yourself, express thought, sentiment, feeling, emotion, and not simply sound.

Simple sound, as a rule, is meaningless and unnatural. Nature demands, for the expression of
beautiful, artistic tone, that all the powers she has given the singer--the powers, physical,
mental, and emotional--be brought into action and put into the tone. Character and magnetism
of tone must be aroused in most voices. This cannot be done through the mechanical and mental
powers alone. It requires the study and development of the emotional energies of the singer.
In other words, the singer must put himself, not only upon a physical and mental level, but
upon the emotional level of the tone as well.

All voices have two distinct color or character effects, the reed and the flute. These effects
are the result of vowel forms, and of the predominating influence of high placing or of low
resonance. When we desire brilliancy, the reed effect should predominate. When we desire dark
color or more somber effects, the flute quality should prevail. In clear tone or timbre there
is more reed effect than flute. In medium tone or color the effect of both is heard and felt.
In the somber tone the flute predominates. To express joy or happiness we use the clear timbre,
and the ring of high forward placing predominates. To express a deeper feeling, a more serious
but not a sad tone, that which we call the emotional form, both the clear and the somber are
heard in various proportions; the high placing and the low resonance are about equally balanced.
To express sadness the somber color or low resonance predominates.

Apply these ideas on all the exercises given. Use sentences which contain thought or sentiment
that will enable you to arouse a definite feeling. For example, to study the clear timbre,
sing, "My heart is glad." To express the emotional tone, the tone which is not sad but serious,
sing, "My heart is thine." To express a somber sound or sadness, sing, "My heart is sad." To
express a ringing, dramatic tone, sing, "Thy heart is false." Thus we express four different
effects on the one word, "heart."

This subject of emotional expression through tone color and tone character is so great, so
important, that it is impossible to do it justice in this little work. I have written more
fully on this and kindred subjects in my other works, therefore I shall here touch but lightly
upon the aesthetics of the vocal art.

It should be remembered that the prime object for which this book was written, was to place
more clearly, if possible, before my readers, the importance and wonderful influence of the
flexible, vitalized movements of our system.

These movements, we find, so directly influence the voice, the singer, and the results in every
way, that we feel justified in again calling attention to them. Too much cannot be said of
them, for the average student of the voice is inclined to neglect them. If they have been,
to a certain extent, understood and mastered, then the study of this, the fourth principle
of artistic singing, becomes a comparatively easy matter. With the student who does not understand
them, emotional or self-expression is always a difficult matter, and with many an impossibility;
which largely accounts for the great number of mechanical singers. At least twenty years' hard
work and study have been put upon these movements in order to reduce them to the simplest and
most effective form. They are based upon common sense and Nature's laws. Of course no one can
or should expect to understand or fully appreciate them without more or less investigation.

ARTICLE TWO.

THE FIFTH PRINCIPLE OF ARTISTIC SINGING.

The fifth principle of artistic singing is

  Automatic Articulation.

Theory.--Articulation must be spontaneous, the result of thought, and of the effect desired,
never of direct or local effort. The thought before the action, never the action before the
thought.

Devices.--The development of the consonantal sounds through the study of the three points or
places of articulation, and the application by the use of words, sentences, and sentiment,
vitalized and intensified.

In our course of study or in the formula here given, it will be evident to the reader that
we lay much stress upon the principle of vitality or vitalized energy. In the second part of
this work we have considered the principles and the devices that develop physical and mental
vitality. In the article which directly precedes this, special emphasis is placed upon emotional
vitality. Vitality or vitalized energy, it will be found, holds good also in this, the fifth
fundamental principle of artistic voice production. This being true, we must recognize the
importance of freedom of form and action, of the removal of all restraint, in fact, the importance
of all true conditions of tone. 6, chap. 7, fol. 130 in the year 1550.) The Potosi and Silver,
whose places mention is made here, and very close to this was generally
abounded of silver, said Lopez writes, chap. 13 of his History of
the Indies, and a hundred pounds of metal, which drew from the mines
of Potosi, leaving pure silver fifty: but these silver mines were found
year of 1547, as stated PEDRO DE Cieza, Crónica, cap. 110, lib. 4, chap.
6. HERRERA, Decade 8, lib. 2, chap. 14, fol. 40, or as ACOSTA, 1545.
So that, while the Gorgeous general, were not perhaps as well known
and famous, although Emperor in the year 1549 it received for its royal
fifth every week thirty thousand, and many times forty thousand pounds
of silver: and instead of wages was given to the miners, by the work of
one week, and sometimes, two pounds of silver. He also writes that
there ACOSTA such an abundance of silver in Peru, which for a long
time and he built or was coined, and was not used coinage that was to Caesar
paid the royal fifth, of luck, many think that even the it to any third-party
money, nor paid him the fifth. However, says he played the Emperor,
for the fifth, from the year of discovered the mines, until the year 1564,
seventy-six million and since 1564, until 1585, thirty-five million.
Up here LOPEZ, CIEZA and ACOSTA. (HERRERA, Decade 8, chap. 15, lib. 2,
fol. 5.) (Note HULSIO.)]

CHAPTER XLIX.

The fertility of the land of handsome, and as we returned to the ships.

The

province of the cute is so fertile, that throughout our journey not found, and saw the same,
or similar, because if an Indian cleaves a tree with a hocecilla, distilled, and it takes five
or six measures of honey, so pure like wine, and meal with bread or with other things, is very
nice food: it also makes wine taste that he must, even softer, and till the bees that are small
and sting. The general gave in machined with the soldiers, who could not be here due to lack
of supplies, but if we governor would have known that provision, we had not left the province, and
easily you need to find you. Finally, forced to go back, we came to the Carcokies, who had already
fled with their wives and children, and were better for them not to: the captain sent other
Indians to say back to his village, fearing nothing that would do them wrong. Did If the message:
before you respond, the sooner desamparásemos his people, if not, We would miss him with weapons,
with which we march against them. We wanted some excuse this time, telling the captain that
this war could be detrimental to the whole province; because, if you tried to walk from the Rio
de la Plata to Peru, she would fail Bastimento those who walk. But the captain and other soldiers
despised our opinion, and maintaining his own, continued the march and reached half a league
of Carcokies, already had planted at the foot of a hill near a forest to escape if the venciésemos.
Low Sirvióles its prevention, because lunges, and kill those who could, and intrigued nearly
a thousand in this battle. Two months later we stopped at this village, which was very large,
we returned the mountain of San Fernando, where we had left two ships (as discussed in Chapter
44). Spend on this trip and a half, doing nothing to fight continuously and intrigued 12.000 Indian,
Indian and boys, that forzábamos to be served as slaves and I was fifty.

We learned from the people of the ships, the discord that while we were absent, were born between
Diego de Abreu, Seville, Captain, and Francisco de Mendoza, whom
the general left for Captain of the people.

Diego de Abreu trying to deprive the government and resisting D. Francisco Mendoza, hatred grew
so that, having raised Abreu with the government, he killed to Mendoza.

CHAPTER L.

Diego de Abreu is opposed to general, and the author receives letter
from Germany.

Abreu Not content with this evil, the tumultuous state, city and garrison of the Assumption,
and tried to send people against us that we were approaching our
general.

But Abreu would not open the door or give the city, and recognized as superior.

Viewing as declared general revolt, besieged the city with all its forces by fencing all, and
that was really warning: Soldiers in the square each day they came to our field, asking pardon
of the general, whom he met with Diego de Abreu could not trust its people, and fearing that he
cogiésemos night, or that the city was delivered by treatment [51] (Which would happen), in agreement
with fifty of his closest colleagues and friends, the forsaken, and
gave the general.

The minute they came out of it, They asked all forgiveness, which granted frankly.

Abreu, the 50 Christians who followed him, turned aside 30 leagues of the place, where we could not
hurt, and he to us from anywhere. This war lasted two years, not living General insurance and Abreu,
because this was with his own, wandering like highwaymen, omitting no opportunity of mistreating.
Viewing general lack of calm, determined reconciled with Abreu, proposing to marry his two daughters
with Alonso and Francisco de Vergara Riquelme, relatives de Abreu,
who accepted the match.

And marriages performed with various covenants, ceased concerns.

At this time, day of Santiago, 1552, received by the hand of Cristobal
Rieser, broker Fúcares in Seville, Sebastian Nidhart a letter that
I wrote on behalf of my brother Tomas Schmidel, managers who try to
return to my homeland.

CHAPTER LI.

The author's permission, and down the Paraguay River, up the Parana.

Then took the letter to the general, and asked him to leave the journey. At first the reuse;
and having mentioned my work and annoying long service and loyalty continues that had run in the
King's service, and all this time consider how Bean dangers and miseries suffered, and how many
times I put the same general life without him never stopped, gave
me leave with honor, and letters to the King that, after giving of
all the provinces of Rio de la Plata, pondered what I had served in
them.

Having arrived at Sevilla, I gave myself these letters to the King, and I made relation of all
these regions, and their circumstances, as closely as I could.

Warned for my trip, I took leave of the general and my colleagues: I took twenty Indians Carias
to bring me my clothes and other things, that many more would need in so long way. Eight days
before leaving, came one from Brazil, said ship had arrived in Lisbon John was Helsen, Merchant
of Lisbon, and Erasmus Schetz, a broker at Antwerp and no miss this opportunity, I left the Assumption
with my twenty Indians in two canoes on the Rio de la Plata, the
day of San Estevan, to December 26, 1552, and after 46 miles, we Sabaya
suberic the people, [52] in which we gathered four Spanish, two Portuguese
that were unlicensed general.

We traveled 15 leagues, and reached the village of Gaberetho, then went to 16 miles to another, Baroti
called, from which, in nine days, we got in Bered, far from the town history 54 leagues. We
spent two days there, taking provisions, and recognizing the canoes because we had to climb
up the Parana River, 100 miles, and deposed all, we went to gin,
town where we spent four days, and before was due to decay, and was
as far as King extended his rule.

CHAPTER LII.

The author walks the ground, leaving the Paraná river, and what happened in Tupi.

We left the canoes and Paraná to go by land in the province of the nation's Sliding [53] where to start
the jurisdiction of the king of Portugal: the whole journey takes six months, and there it
many deserts, mountains and valleys to go, so full of wild beasts, that fear could not sleep safely.

The
Indians of this nation will eat their enemies.

They always have war, which is his greatest delight: when due, the losers are the people with
as much support as if wedding. If they want to kill any big parties, and while they last, give
everything asked and like, and wives to have fun, until the time
you have to kill.

Spend their days and nights in banquets and meals, drunk as herds of hogs Epicurus, more awkwardly
than you can say. They are very proud and haughty; make wine corn that get drunk: his language
is slightly different from that of tooth decay.

We arrived at another place called Careiseba, also inhabited by the Tupi. These are war with Christians:
the former are his friends.

On Palm Sunday we left to another people that was 4 miles, and the way they told us that those
of us Careiseba guardásemos and although we had no need of supplies, and which we had come forward,
did not want two of our companions, and went the people against our advice, which just came in, were killed
and eaten by the Indians. Drew near to us after 50 Christians dressed and talked to us about
thirty paces. Keep Indians this custom, have become a little out of hand, if you talk to him
is not presumed he thinks good thing. Viewing these bad signs, took up arms as best we could,
and asked where were our classmates? - responded that they were in his village and we prayed
we were to him, but knowing his deception, as toilets.

Dierónnos a dash Arrow, and shortly returned to his village, from which 6.000 came against
us. Hallábamonos no more defense than a forest next four muskets and 20 Indians Carias, who brought
me to the Assumption, and with so little strength we stayed four
days against them.

Disparábannos many arrows, and considering the resistance was futile, to ambush us on the fourth
night free Indian food with lots of chasing us.

Sucediónos As the saying goes - the crowd of dogs is the death of the hare.

Went eight continuous days wandering through the woods: so that, although I have wandered both
in my life, I never had way more harsh, uncomfortable and ill at ease. Manteniámonos with
honey and roots, and we stopped to hunt some wild animals, because we Indians fingertips.

Finally we arrive to the nation Biesaie, where we spent four days and provide us with what we needed,
not daring to reach the people, by so few.

In this nation is Urqu river, we saw snakes, called in Spanish Schebe Eyba Tuescha, [54] ten paces
long and four inch wide. These snakes do much harm, because if a man bathing in that river, or
swimming wants to pass any animal, the snake wraps in the queue to man or animal, and he gets under
the water and eats it: therefore always walk with your head above water, looking if you pass
any man or animal can be.

From here we walked 100 miles in a month, to give in Scheverveba, where people rest three days,
but so ripped and weaknesses of the journey and lack of food, we never had in abundance but honey. And
then we started to get sick, lost all forces with the long and dangerous journeys made with great
poverty and misery, and the most principal, without food suitable to the nature, or beds that
resting, because we were carrying on their backs, as everybody knows, were of cotton, tected as
a network of four or five pounds of weight and sleep were tied to two trees and throwing it
lies in the field: it is safe when they walk a few Christians in India, in the houses and villages
of the Indians. From there we went to a village of Christians I had to dens of thieves. It
was his captain Juan Reinville, who was then absent, certainly for
our good, in the town of San Vicente, with other Christians to fulfill
certain adjustments had been made.

These Indians, (with which Christians live in two villages 800) are
sugetos the king of Portugal, but below the power of Juan de Reinville,
which was very obeyed because India had been in 40 years as governor,
made war, and pacified the province and judged that he deserved no
better than the government.

And because he was not given long, armed wars and collected in a 5.000 day Indian warriors, and
the King of Portugal could not collect 2.000.

Such was his authority and power in these provinces! When we arrived, was at home of his child,
who treated us with much entertainment, and yet a cure for his people rather than the Indians,
and because we all came out well, we were very glad, giving thanks to God us safely out of that town.

CHAPTER
LIII.

Author comes out of San Vicente, sailing to Spain, and provides second
headwinds port once the Holy Spirit.

From there we went to the little village of San Vicente, which is
20 miles from the background.

Day July 13, 1553 at the port are a Portuguese ship laden with sugar from Brazil and cotton, by
Peter Rosel, [55] Erasmo schitz factor of Antwerp, who resided in San Vicente, and sent it to John
Hulsen, resident of Lisbon, who also was a factor.

He received with love and honor Rosel, requested that I received at the ship, begging the sailors
who treat me as his preferred which they did faithfully.

Eleven days we stopped in San Vicente, where we provide everything you need for navigation.
There from the Assumption to San Vicente in Brazil, 376 miles, which we came in six months.

We
left San Vicente, San Juan Bautista Day, 1553, and at fourteen days at sea, agitated of continuous
storms and contrary winds, broken tree ship, knowing where we were,
enter the port of the Holy Spirit in Brazil, inhabited by Christians,
who with their children and wives till sugar.

There are cotton, large and many clubs from Brazil and other merchandise.

In

this sea, especially among Sancti Spirits and San Vicente, and most of all, there are large whales
[56] and fish, as big as them, often do great harm, because when
sailors go on a ship's skiffs to another, usually come as a herd of
whales to fight one another, and overturn the navichuelos, killing
people.

They are always throwing water, and increasingly so, on average French Cuba, because they put their
heads under water and again to remove it right away, throwing it, as has been said. Which had not
seen this ever, would think that navigating a lot of rocks.

CHAPTER LIV.

The author leaves the port of the Holy Spirit and comes to the Third and the Azores, sailing
to Spain and thence to Flanders. Take the earth again by storm.

Four months we were at sea, after we left the Holy Spirit, continued sailing without seeing land
until the Third Island, where we spent two days, and provide us bread, meat, water and other
necessary things fresh. Obey the king of Portugal.

In fourteen days of sailing we arrived at Lisbon, September 3, 1552, and having been it another
fourteen days, and killed two of the Indians that I had, I went to Seville, which 42 miles far
from Lisbon, and arrived in six days. After sailed by sea to San Lucar in two days: there was
one night, and went overland in a day at the port of Santa Maria,
and another day I went to Cadiz, on the ground.

I found in the bay 25 large Dutch hookers, back to his province: a greater and more beautiful,
new and only once had sailed to Spain from Antwerp. Aconsejábanme
the merchants that I embark on it, and adjusted to Henry Schertz,
your employer, my journey: for which warned me that afternoon, being
in agreement with him that I be warned when leaving. I got into the
ship carrying wine, bread and the like, and some parrots who brought
from the Indies.

That night he drank the pattern more than you should,
and my goodness he forgot me and left me the inn is two hours before
dawn, the pilot ordered that it should be sailed. Looking very tomorrow
where the ship was, and who had a league of land section, I was obliged
take the eye to another, and deal with another patron, whom he gave
the same as the first.

Out of these twenty-four ships port, we were
happy to wind three days, then rose a storm so terrible that we could
not continue the journey.

The singer is a specialist, but all successful specialization rests upon the broad foundations
of general culture. The reason why there are so many singers and so few artists who thrill
us with the revelation of the intimate beauties of the songs of Franz, Grieg, and MacDowell,
to take only a few names from the rich list of song writers, is because people sing without
acquiring the range of vision which makes such interpretation possible. How can one sing, let
us say, a German song, imbued with German romanticism and melancholy, unless he knows something
of the German art, the German spirit, the German language, the German national characteristics?
A knowledge of literature, art in general, and the "Humanities," to use an old-fashioned word,
is absolutely necessary to interpretation of a high order. Too often, alas, the singer imagines
that the study of tone production, or acquaintance with musical literature, or a polished diction,
will make him sing with the combination of qualities called style. Not so! Upon the broad foundations
of general culture, which distinguishes the man of refinement from his less fortunate brother,
rests also the specific ability to sing with distinction. Moreover, the singer must have definite
musical ability, natural and developed by study. He must thoroughly comprehend rhythm, melody,
and harmony in order that his attention may not be distracted from interpretative values to
ignoble necessities of time and tune. It is not possible to sing Mozart, not to say Beethoven
and Wagner, without acquaintance with the vocabulary and grammar of the wonderful language
in which they wrote. Familiarity with the traditions of different schools of composition and
performance is necessary also in order not to sing the songs of Bach and Handel like those
of Schubert and Schumann, or Brahms like the modern French composers; in order not to interpret
with like effects indiscriminately songs of the oratorio and opera, of Italian, German, French,
English and modern Russian schools.

Unquestionably the singer must have control of the physiological and technical possibilities
of his voice. No one can make words and music mean anything while he is wondering what his
voice may do next. Developed intelligence, emotional richness and refinement, musical knowledge,
a properly placed voice capable of flexibility and color, distinct articulation, polished diction,
these are some of the preliminaries to successful interpretation in song.

Let us see what special qualifications assist in the actual performance of song, in the attempt
to give pleasure or artistic gratification by singing songs for others to hear. In the first
place let us consider the limitations as well as the advantages of the human voice. I must
ask you to remember that considered as an instrument it is smaller in power than some instruments,
shorter in range than many others, often less beautiful than the tones of the violin. But in
one respect it transcends all others. It is capable of revealing the mind and soul of the one
who plays upon it. The speaking voice, as well as the voice in song, reveals thought and feeling
to the hearer; those subtler shades of meaning which distinguish man, made in the image of
God, from his humble companions, are made clear to those about him by this instrument--this
wonderful, persuasive, cajoling, beseeching, enthralling, exciting, thrilling, terrifying instrument!
Have you not been moved by the tones of the speaking voice? How can we train the voice in song
to express these varying shades of meaning, and can we learn to use them systematically instead
of accidentally or when we are impelled by strong emotion? I know that there is a popular impression
that some singers possess a mysterious quality known as "temperament," and that others do not.
Having this uncertain quality, one singer stirs an audience; having it not, the hearer remains
unmoved. If by temperament, intelligence and emotional richness of nature are meant, I do not
believe that anyone who is not to some extent possessed of these faculties can stir the feelings
of his hearers to any considerable degree. But surely many, almost all people capable of conquering
the physiological, psychological, technical, and musical difficulties to be overcome before
learning to sing at all well, possess these qualities. And even if modern songs of the best
type abound in subtle, emotional expression and varying shades of intellectual significance,
it is, I believe, possible for most singers to gain in interpretative facility by learning
to connect the thought and feeling underlying the song with the spoken words which are their
natural outlet and expression.

I say spoken words; for speech is the more spontaneous expression of thought and feeling, through
which individuality attains its simplest and most complete expression. Speech is the normal
method through which we make clear our ordinary thoughts, feelings, desires, repulsions, and
attractions to those about us. Song is the finer flower of artistic expression, one of the
means through which imagination and the creative and interpretative faculties find an adequate
medium and outlet. The
Ministry of War, the Management of the Weapons and other military facilities were full of soldiers
and officers, protected by recommendations, had found means to circumvent his bad luck, getting
rid of joining their battalions, and the abuse took such proportions that it was necessary
to avoid it.

When stakeholders were calmer, he ordered that, within three days, all individuals placed on
the premises of the Ministry in the past six months hospitalized in their bodies, whatever their
origin and how this meant the inevitable accuracy out to operations overnight, Pepe decided carry
out its purpose. Regarding his father, had everything planned: what was was made as simple
as sad a stretcher to transport you on Engracia house, and carry then his bed, his clothes and
some furniture, preserved more useful than for sellers. The difficulty was in determining
to take Dona Manuela and Leocadia. What would you do? To persist in following up on the streets
of keypads, with what resources? And to find another room, what means would have? Not hide
the clear understanding Pepe who, though sick of reason, should not be thrown into the street
to his mother and sister, but also saw that the fanaticism of Dona Manuela and subsequent behavior
could result in Leocadia during his absence, the total abandonment of the poor old man.

- You speak to them - Pepe said Miller, trying this. I lack courage, and may also I miss calm.

- I see your mother ... With Leo did not speak.

- Whatever.

- When
you think that we have the transfer to your father?

- This is done
in one morning.

The main thing is that you speak.

If God touched my heart! What do I do not want to leave the house?

... and although they lend themselves, where are they to put in and how will they live? It seems
incredible that we've got to have to think about it!

Miller did not seek to Dona Manuela at home, not to see Leocadia, but eager to meet the difficult
task of Pepe, went to the alms of light. The first trip was made in vain: Dona Manuela refused
to receive him. At the second attempt, he was told not to leave because he was in worship, but said
the chaplain prayed, his son, which had fit.

Miller came on the same visiting room where he was received days before Pepe, when he sought
see his mother, and within minutes was tabled Tirso. Despite the dead, for work the affection of
Engracia, Millan was the love of Leocadia, the presence of the priest was impressed unpleasantly,
even tougher in his anger toward the man, that wiped with their first loves. Thus no resistance
to dealing with the priest: the opportunity came unceremoniously shot to treat and also understood
it was better with him than his mother, whose goodness there was morning, and shortness of
understanding which would not have, of fixed, fixed. He preferred the risk of a violent scene with
the man, the prospect struggling with weak or passive resistance
alone.

- In what I can do for you? - Tirso asked.

- I come from
Pepe.

 If the poem be narrative, tell
the story with life and vitality; if it be dramatic, attempt to impersonate the characters
concerned; if it be devotional, recite with dignity and devotional quality. Finally, when both
words and music are well in the mind, if possible with an accompaniment, but certainly standing,
sing the song. Sing, making a compromise between the strict rhythmical value of the notes and
the demands of the sense of the words. Keep the general outlines of the music so far as phrasing
and rhythm are concerned; but whenever a sacrifice must be made, sacrifice the musical value
and emphasize the emotion, the meaning, the poetry, the dramatic or narrative significance
of the words. Phrase with this end in view; sacrifice anything except tone-production to this
end. Do not distort the rhythm, but bend it sufficiently to emphasize important words and syllables,
by holding them a little, at the expense of unimportant words or syllables. Finally, remember
that misguided enthusiasm is not interpretation.

No real interpretation is possible without a full comprehension of the meaning of both words
and music. Study the voice. Study its possibilities and its limitations. Study music until
the musical element of difficulty is reduced to a minimum, and until the character, style,
and traditions of the various song forms are well within your grasp. No matter how beautiful
may be the voice, or how well placed, no amount of enthusiasm or temperament can atone for
a meaningless or unintelligent treatment of the intellectual, emotional, and musical characteristics
of the song as a whole.

SUPPLEMENTARY NOTE. 

III.

Chapter records from 21 to 25 May 1810 in Buenos-Aires.

Foreword.

IV.

Report on the navigation of the Third, and other rivers that flow
to the Paraná, D. Pedro Andres Garcia.

Editor's introduction.

V.

Foundation of the city of Montevideo,
by Lieutenant General D.

Bruno Mauricio Zavala, other documents relating
to Eastern State.

Editor's introductory speech.

VI.

Memory historical,
geographical, political and economic information on the Indian province
of Misiones Guarani, by D. Gonzalo de Doble. If it is found that the tendency is to raise the hands too
high, then try or study the action as follows:

Place the hands upon the hips, and when coming into action, when seeking the level of the tone,
or during the act of singing, see that the hips expand freely and evenly with the body. 

From here we sail to the Indians Mepenes, who live scattered, taking up 40 miles of country
box and can be joined by land and sea in two days, 10,000 Indian warriors, and is higher the
number of canoes, of which each, fit 20 Indians. Finally came to help
Indian warriors 1.000 Nagases Yapirús and served us with pleasure and profit.

CHAPTER XLII.
Tooth decay due to the Christians, aided by the Yapirús and Nagases,
earning them Froemidiere and Acaraiba.

