Mme. Lebrun will be remembered principally as the great painter of Marie Antoinette, who posed
for her more than twenty times. The most prominent people of Europe eagerly sought her work,
while socially she was welcomed everywhere. Her famous suppers and entertainments in her modestly
furnished hôtel, at which Garat sang, Grétry played the piano, and Viotti and Prince Henry
of Prussia assisted, were the events of the day. Her reputation as a painter of the great ladies
and gentlemen of nobility, and her entertainments, naturally associated her with the nobility;
hence, she shared their unpopularity at the outbreak of the Revolution and left France.

It is doubtful whether any artist—certainly no French artist—ever received more attention and
honors, or was made a member of so many art academies, than Mme. Lebrun. It would be difficult
to make any comparison between her and Rosa Bonheur, their respective spheres of art being
so different. Only the future will speak as to the relative positions of each in French art.

In the domain of the dramatic art of the nineteenth century, two women have made their names
well known throughout Europe and America,—Rachel, and Sarah Bernhardt, both tragédiennes and
both daughters of Israel. While Rachel was, without question, the greatest tragédienne that
France ever produced, excelling Bernhardt in deep tragic force, she yet lacked many qualities
which our contemporary possesses in a high degree. She had constantly to contend with a cruel
fate and a wicked, grasping nature, which brought her to an early grave. The wretched slave
of her greedy and rapacious father and managers, who cared for her only in so far as she enriched
them by her genius and popularity, hers was a miserable existence, which detracted from her
acting, checked her development, and finally undermined her health.

After her critical period of apprenticeship was successfully passed and she was free to govern
herself, she rose to be queen of the French stage—a position which she held for eighteen years,
during which she was worshipped and petted by the whole world. As a social leader, she was
received and made much of by the great ladies of the Faubourg Saint-Germain. Her taste in dress
was exquisite in its simplicity, being in perfect harmony with the reserved, retiring, and
amiable actress herself.

Possibly no actress, singer, or other public woman ever received such homage and general recognition.
With all her great qualities as an actress, vigor, grandeur, wild, savage energy, superb articulation,
irreproachable diction, and a marvellous sense of situations, she lacked the one quality which
we miss in Sarah Bernhardt also—a true tenderness and compassion. As a tragédienne she can
be compared to Talma only. Her greed for money soon ended her brilliant career; unlike her
sister in art, she amassed a fortune, leaving over one million five hundred thousand francs.

Compared with Bernhardt, Rachel is said to have been the greater in pure tragedy, but she did
not possess as many arts of fascination. There are many points of similarity between the two
actresses: Rachel was at times artificial, wanting in tenderness and depth, while at times
she was superhuman in her passion and emotion, and often put more into her rôle than was intended;
and the acting of Sarah Bernhardt has the same characteristics. Rachel, however, was much more
subject to moods and fits of inspiration than is Bernhardt—especially was she incapable of
acting at her best on evenings of her first appearance in a new rôle. Her critical power was
very weak in comparison with her intellectual power, the reverse being true of her modern rival.
Rachel's greatest inspiration was Phèdre, and in this rôle Bernhardt "is weak, unequal. We
see all the viciousness in Phèdre and none of her grandeur. She breaks herself to pieces against
the huge difficulties of the conception and does not succeed in moving us.... Rachel was the
mouthpiece of the gods; no longer a free agent, she poured forth every epithet of adoration
that Aphrodite could suggest, clambering up higher and higher in the intensity of her emotions,
whilst her audience hung breathless, riveted on every word, and dared to burst forth in thunders
of applause only after she had vanished from their sight."

Both of these artists were children of the lower class, and struggled with a fate which required
grit, tenacity, and determination to win success. The artist of to-day is no social leader—"never
the companion of man, but his slave or his despot." It is entirely her physical charms and
the outward or artificial requisites of her art that make her what she is. According to Mr.
Lynch, her tragedy "is but one of disorder, fury, and folly—passions not deep, but unbridled
and hysterical in their intensest display. Her forte lies in the ornate and elaborate exhibition
of rôles," for which she creates the most capricious and fantastic garbs. She is a great manager,—omitting
the financial part,—quite a writer, somewhat of a painter and sculptor, throwing her money
away, except to her creditors, adored by some and execrated by others. Her care of her physical
self and her utter disregard for money have undoubtedly contributed to her long and brilliant
career; rest and idleness are her most cruel punishments. All nervous energy, never happy,
restless, she is a true fin de siècle product.

Among the large number of women who wielded influence in the nineteenth century, either through
their salons or through their works, Mme. Guizot was one of the most important as the author
of treatises on education and as a moralist. As an intimate friend of Suard, she was placed,
as a contributor, on the Publiciste, and for ten years wrote articles on morality, society,
and literature which showed a varied talent, much depth, and justness. Fond of polemics, she
never failed to attack men like La Harpe, De Bonald, etc., thus making herself felt as an influence
to be reckoned with in matters literary and moral.

As Mme. Guizot, she naturally had a powerful influence upon her husband, shaping his thoughts
and theories, for she immediately espoused his principles and interests. In 1821, at the age
of forty-eight, she began her literary work again, after a period of rest, writing novels in
which the maternal love and the ardent and pious sentiments of a woman married late in life
are reflected. In her theories of education she showed a highly practical spirit. Sainte-Beuve
said that, next to Mme. de Staël, "she was the woman endowed with the most sagacity and intelligence;
the sentiment that she inspires is that of respect and esteem—and these terms can only do her
justice."

Mme. de Duras, in her salon, represented the Restoration, "by a composite of aristocracy and
affability, of brilliant wit and seriousness, semi-liberal and somewhat progressive." Her credit
lies in the fact that, by her keen wit, she kept in harmony a heterogeneous mixture of social
life. She wrote a number of novels, which are, for the most part, "a mere delicate and discreet
expression of her interior life."

Mme. Ackermann, German in her entire makeup, was, among French female writers, one of the deepest
thinkers of the nineteenth century. A true mystic, she was, from early youth, filled with ardent,
dreamy vagaries, to which she gave expression in verse—poems which reflect a pessimism which
is rather the expression of her life's experiences, and of twenty-four years of solitude after
two years of happy wedded state, than an actual depression and a discouraging philosophy of
life. Her poetry shows a vigor, depth, precision of form, and strength of expression seldom
found in poetry of French women.

One of the most conspicuous figures in the latter half of the nineteenth century is Mme. Adam,—Juliette
Lamber,—an unusual woman in every respect. In 1879 she founded the Nouvelle Revue, on the plan
of the Revue des Deux Mondes, for which she wrote political and literary articles which showed
much talent. In politics she is a Republican and something of a socialist, a somewhat sensational—but
modestly sensational—figure. She has been called "a necessary continuator of George Sand."
Her salon was the great centre for all Republicans and one of the most brilliant and important
of this century. In literature her name is connected with the movement called neo-Hellenism,
the aim of which seems to have been to inspire a love and sympathy for the art, religion, and
literature of ancient and modern Greece. In her works she shows a deep insight into Greek life
and art. Her name will always be connected with the Republican movement in France; as a salon
leader, femme de lettres, journalist, and female politician, no woman is better known in France
in the nineteenth century.

A woman who might be called the rival of Mme. Adam, but whose activity occurred much earlier
in the century, was Mme. Emile de Girardin,—Delphine Gay,—who ruled, at least for a short time,
the social and literary world of Paris at her hôtel in the Rue Chaillot. Her very early precocity,
combined with her rare beauty, made her famous. In 1836, after having written a number of poems
which showed a weak sentimentality and a quite mannered emotion, she founded the Courrier Français,
for which she wrote articles on the questions of the day—effusions which were written upon
the spur of the moment and were very unreliable. Her dramas were hardly successful, although
they were played by the great Rachel. Her present claim to fame is based upon the brilliancy
of her salon.

The future will possibly remember Mme. Alphonse Daudet more as the wife of the great Daudet
than as a writer, although, according to M. Jules Lemaître, she possessed the gift of écriture
artiste to a remarkable degree. According to him, sureness and exactness and a striking truth
of impressions are her characteristics as a writer. She exercised a most wholesome power over
Alphonse Daudet, taking him away from bad influences, giving him a home, dignity, and happiness,
and saving him from brutality and pessimism; she was his guardian and censor; she preserved
his grace and noble sentiments. The nature of her relations to him should ensure the preservation
of her name to posterity.

We are accustomed to give Gyp—Sybille Gabrielle Marie Antoinette de Riquetti de Mirabeau, Comtesse
de Martel de Janville—little credit for seriousness or morality, associating her with the average
brilliant, flippant novelists, who write because they possess the knack of writing in a brilliant
style. Her object is to show that man, in a civilized state in society, is vain, coarse, and
ridiculous. She paints Parisian society to demonstrate that the apparently fortunate ones of
the world are not to be envied, that they are miserable in their so-called joys and ridiculous
in their pleasures and their elegance. She has described the most risqué situations and the
most delightful women, but she gives us to understand that the latter are not to be loved.
The vanity of the social world might be called her text.

Mme. Blanc—Thérèse de Solms—is known to us to-day as the first woman to reveal English and
American authors and habits to her contemporaries. By advocating American customs she has done
much to ameliorate the condition of French girls, by giving them a freer intercourse with young
men and permitting them to see more of the world before entering upon married life.

