The surges increased in volume, and boiled, hissing as with anger, like savage animals.  Presently,
the cockle-shell rose upon one very lofty swell, and Shibli Bagarag lost hold of it, and lo!
it was overturned and engulfed in the descent of the great mountain of water, and the Princess
Goorelka was immersed in the depths.  She would have sunk, but Shibli Bagarag caught hold of
her, and supported her to the shore by the strength of his right arm.  The shore was one of
sand and shells, their wet cheeks sparkling in the moonlight; over it hung a promontory, a
huge jut of black rock.  Now, the Princess when she landed, seeing not him that supported her,
delayed not to run beneath the rock, and ascended by steps cut from the base of the rock. 
And Shibli Bagarag followed her by winding paths round the rock, till she came to the highest
peak commanding the circle of the Enchanted Sea, and glimpses of enthralled vessels, and mariners
bewitched on board; long paths of starlight rippled into the distant gloom, and the reflection
of the moon opposite was as a wide nuptial sheet of silver on the waters: islands, green and
white, and with soft music floating from their foliage, sailed slowly to and fro.  Surely,
to dwell reclining among the slopes of those islands a man would forfeit Paradise!  Now, the
Princess, as she stood upon the peak, knew that she was not alone, and pretended to slip from
her footing, and Shibli Bagarag called out and ran to her; but she turned in the direction
of his voice and laughed, and he knew he was outwitted. Then, to deceive her, he dropped from
the phial twenty drops round her on the rock, and those twenty drops became twenty voices,
so that she was bewildered with their calls, and stopped her ears, and ran from them, and descended
from the eminence nimbly, slipping over ledges and leaping the abysses.  And Shibli Bagarag
followed her, clutching at the trailers and tearing them with him, letting loose a torrent
of stones and earth, till on a sudden they stood together above a greenswarded basin of the
rock opening to the sea; and in the middle of the basin, lo! in stature like a maiden of the
mountains, and one that droopeth her head pensively thinking of her absent lover, the Enchanted
Lily.  Wonder knocked at the breast of Shibli Bagarag when he saw that queenly flower waving
its illumined head to the breeze: he could not retain a cry of rapture.  As he did this the
Princess stretched her hand to where he was and groped a moment, and caught him by the silken
dress and tore in it a great rent, and by the rent he stood revealed to her.  Then said she,
'O youth, thou halt done ill to follow me here, and the danger of it is past computing; surely,
the motive was a deep one, nought other than the love of me.'

She spoke winningly, sweet words to a luted voice, and the youth fell upon his knees before
her, smitten by her beauty; and he said, 'I followed thee here as I would follow such loveliness
to the gates of doom, O Princess of Oolb.'

She smiled and said playfully, 'I will read by thy hand whether thou be one faithful in love.'

She took his hand and sprinkled on it earth and gravel, and commenced scanning it curiously.
As she scanned it her forehead wrinkled up, and a shot like black lightning travelled across
her countenance, withering its beauty: she cried in a forced voice, 'Aha! it is well, O youth,
for thee and for me that thou lovest me, and art faithful in love.'

The look of the Princess of Oolb and her voice affrighted the soul of Shibli Bagarag, and he
would have turned from her; but she held him, and went to the Lily, and emptied into the palm
of her hand the dew that was in the Lily, and raised it to the lips of Shibli Bagarag, bidding
him drink as a pledge for her sake and her love, and to appease his thirst. As he was about
to drink, there fell into the palm of the Princess from above what seemed a bolt of storm scattering
the dew; and after he had blinked with the suddenness of the action he looked and beheld the
hawk, its red eyes inflamed with wrath.  And the hawk screamed into the ear of Shibli Bagarag,
'Pluck up the Lily ere it is too late, O fool!--the dew was poison!  Pluck it by the root with
thy right hand!'

So thereat he strode to the Lily, and grasped it, and pulled with his strength; and the Lily
was loosened, and yielded, and came forth streaming with blood from the bulb of the root; surely
the bulb of the root was a palpitating heart, yet warm, even as that we have within our bosoms.

Now, from the terror of that sight the Princess hid her eyes, and shrank away.  And the lines
of malice, avarice, and envy seemed ageing her at every breath.  Then the hawk pecked at her
three pecks, and perched on a corner of rock, and called shrilly the name 'Karaz!'  And the
Genie Karaz came slanting down the night air, like a preying bird, and stood among them.  So
the hawk cried, 'See, O Karaz, the freshness of thy Princess of Oolb'; and the Genie regarded
her till loathing curled his lip, for she grew in ghastliness to the colour of a frog, and
a frog's face was hers, a camel's back, a pelican's throat, the legs of a peacock.

Then the hawk cried, 'Is this how ye meet, ye lovers,--ye that will be wedded?'  And the hawk
made his tongue as a thorn to them.  At the last it exclaimed, 'Now let us fight our battle,
Karaz!'

But the Genie said, 'Nay, there will come a time for that, traitress!'

The hawk cried, 'Thou delayest, till the phial of Paravid, the hairs of Garraveen, and this
Lily, my three helps, are expended, thinking Aklis, for which we barter them, striketh but
a single blow?  That is well!  Go, then, and take thy Princess, and obtain permission of the
King of Oolb, her father, to wed her, O Karaz!'

The hawk whistled with laughter, and the Genie was stung with its mockeries, and clutched the
Princess of Oolb in a bunch, and arose from the ground with her, slanting up the night-air
like fire, till he was seen high up even as an angry star reddening the seas beneath.

When he was lost to the eye, Shibli Bagarag drew a long breath and cried aloud, 'The likeness
of that Princess of Oolb in her ugliness to Noorna, my betrothed, is a thing marvellous, if
it be not she herself.'  And he reflected, 'Yet she seemed not to recognize and claim me';
and thought, 'I am bound to her by gratitude, and I should have rescued her from Karaz, but
I know not if it be she.  Wullahy! I am bewildered; I will ask counsel of the hawk.'  He looked
to the corner of the rock where the hawk had perched, but the hawk was gone; as he searched
for it, his eyes fell upon the bed of earth where the Lily stood ere he plucked it, and lo!
in the place of the Lily, there was a damsel dressed in white shining silks, fairer than the
enchanted flower, straighter than the stalk of it; her head slightly drooping, like the moon
on a border of the night; her bosom like the swell of the sea in moonlight; her eyes dark,
under a low arch of darker lashes, like stars on the skirts of storm; and she was the very
dream of loveliness, formed to freeze with awe, and to inflame with passion.  So Shibli Bagarag
gazed at her with adoration, his hands stretched half-way to her as if to clasp her, fearing
she was a vision and would fade; and the damsel smiled a sweet smile, and lifted her antelope
eyes, and said, 'Who am I, and to whom might I be likened, O youth?'

And he answered, 'Who thou art, O young perfection, I know not, if not a Houri of Paradise;
but thou art like the Princess of Oolb, yet lovelier, oh lovelier!  And thy voice is the voice
of Noorna, my betrothed; yet purer, sweeter, younger.'

So the damsel laughed a laugh like a sudden sweeping of wild chords of music, and said, 'O
youth, saw'st thou not the ascent of Noorna, thy betrothed, gathered in a bunch by Karaz?'

And he answered, 'I saw her; but I knew not, O damsel of beauty; surely I was bewildered, amazed,
without power to contend with the Genie.'

Then she said, 'Wouldst thou release her?  So kiss me on the lips, on the eyes, and on the
forehead, three kisses each time; and with the first say, "By the well of Paravid"; and with
the second, "By the strength of Garraveen!" and with the third, "By the Lily of the Sea!"'

Now, the heart of the youth bounded at her words, and he went to her, and trembling kissed
her all bashfully on the lips, on the eyes, and on the forehead, saying each time as she directed.
Then she took him by the hand, and stepped from the bed of earth, crying joyfully, 'Thanks
be to Allah and the Prophet!  Noorna, is released from the sorceries that held her, and powerful.'

So, while he was wondering, she said, 'Knowest thou not the woman, thy betrothed?'

He answered, 'O damsel of beauty, I am charged with many feelings; doubts and hopes are mixed
in me.  Say first who thou art, and fill my two ears with bliss.'

And she said, 'I will leave my name to other lips; surely I am the daughter of the Vizier Feshnavat,
betrothed to a wandering youth,--a barber, who sickened at the betrothal, and consoled himself
with a proverb when he gave me the kiss of contract, and knew not how with truth to pay me
a compliment.'

Now, Shibli Bagarag saw this was indeed Noorna bin Noorka, his betrothed, and he fell before
her in love and astonishment; but she lifted him to her neck, and embraced him, saying, 'Said
I not truly when I said "I am that I shall be"?  My youth is not as that of Bhanavar the Beautiful,
gained at another's cost, but my own, and stolen from me by wicked sorceries.'  And he cried,
'Tell me, O Noorna, my betrothed, how this matter came to pass?'

She said, 'On our way to Aklis.'

She bade him grasp the Lily, and follow her; and he followed her down the rock and over the
bright shells upon the sand, admiring her stateliness, her willowy lightness, her slimness
as of the palm-tree.  Then she waded in the water, and began to strike out with her arms, and
swim boldly,--he likewise; and presently they came to a current that hurried them off in its
course, and carried them as weeds, streaming rapidly.  He was bearing witness to his faith
as a man that has lost hope of life, when a strong eddy stayed him, and whirled him from the
current into the calm water. So he looked for Noorna, and saw her safe beside him flinging
back the wet tresses from her face, that was like the full moon growing radiant behind a dispersing
cloud.  And she said, 'Ask not for the interpretation of wonders in this sea, for they cluster
like dates on a date branch. Surely, to be with me is enough?'

And she bewitched him in the midst of the waters, making him oblivious of all save her, so
that he hugged the golden net of her smiles and fair flatteries, and swam with an exulting
stroke, giving his breast broadly to the low billows, and shouting verses of love and delight
to her.  And while they swam sweetly, behold, there was seen a pearly shell of flashing crimson,
amethyst, and emerald, that came scudding over the waves toward them, raised to the wind, fan-shaped,
and in its front two silver seats.  When she saw it, Noorna cried, 'She has sent me this, Rabesqurat!
Perchance is she favourable to my wishes, and this were well!'

Then she swayed in the water sideways, and drew the shell to her, and the twain climbed into
it, and sat each on one of the silver seats, folded together.  In its lightness it was as a
foam-bubble before the wind on the blue water, and bore them onward airily.  At his feet Shibli
Bagarag beheld a stool of carved topaz, and above his head the arch of the shell was inlaid
with wreaths of gems: never was vessel fairer than that.

Now, while they were speeding over the water, Noorna said, 'The end of this fair sea is Aklis,
and beyond it is the Koosh.  So while the wind is our helmsman, and we go circled by the quiet
of this sea, I'll tell thee of myself, if thou carest to hear.'

And he cried with the ardour of love, 'Surely, I would hear of nought save thyself,  Noorna,
and the music of the happy garden compareth not in sweetness with it.  Surely, I slept and
smiled, and dreamed the infant's dream, and knew not the coldness of the thing I touched. 
So were we even as two dead creatures lying there; but life was in me, and I awoke with hunger
at the time of feeding, and turned to my mother, and put up my little mouth to her for nourishment,
and sucked her, but nothing came.  I cried, and commenced chiding her, and after a while it
was as decreed, that certain horsemen of a troop passing through the wilderness beheld me,
and seeing my distress and the helpless being I was, their hearts were stirred, and they were
mindful of what the poet says concerning succour given to the poor, helpless, and innocent
of this world, and took me up, and mixed for me camel's milk and water from the bags, and comforted
me, and bore me with them, after they had paid funeral rites to the body of my mother.

Now, the rose-bud showeth if the rose-tree be of the wilds or of the garden, and the chief
of that troop seeing me born to the uses of gentleness, carried me in his arms with him to
his wife, and persuaded her that was childless to make me the child of their adoption.  So
I abode with them during the period of infancy and childhood, caressed and cared for, as is said:

          The flower a stranger's hand may gather,
            Strikes root into the stranger's breast;
          Affection is our mother, father,
            Friend, and of cherishers the best.

And I loved them as their own child, witting not but that I was their child, till on a day
while I played among some children of my years, the daughter of the King of Oolb passed by
us on a mule, with her slaves and drawn swords, and called to me, 'Thou little castaway!' and
had me brought to her, and peered upon my face in a manner that frightened me, for I was young.
Then she put me down from the neck of her mule where she had seated me, saying, 'Child of a
dead mother and a runaway father, what need I fear from thy like, and the dreams of a love-sick
Genie?'  So she departed, but I forgot not her words, and dwelt upon them, and grew fevered
with them, and drooped.  Now, when he saw my bloom of health gone, heaviness on my feet, the
light hollowed from my eyes, my benefactor, Ravaloke--he that I had thought my father--took
me between his knees, and asked me what it was and the cause of my ailing; and I told him.

Then said he, 'This is so: thou art not my child; but I love thee as mine, O my little Desert-flower;
and why the Princess should fancy fear of thee I like not to think; but fear thou her, for
she is a mask of wiles and a vine trailing over pitfalls; such a sorceress the world knoweth
not as Goorelka of Oolb.'

Now, I was penetrated by what he said, and ceased to be a companion to them that loved childish
games and romps, and meditated by myself in gardens and closets, feigning sleep when the elder
ones discoursed, that I might learn something of this mystery, and all that was spoken perplexed
me more, as the sage declareth:

          Who in a labyrinth wandereth without clue,
          More that he wandereth doth himself undo.

Though I was quick as the quick-eyed falcon, I discovered nought, flying ever at false game,--

          A follower of misleading beams,
          A cheated soul, the mock of dreams.

At times I thought that it was the King of Oolb was my father, and plotted to come in his path;
and there were kings and princes of far countries whom I sought to encounter, that they might
claim me; but none claimed me.  O my betrothed, few gave me love beside Ravaloke, and when
the wife that he cherished died, he solely, for I was lost in waywardness and the slave of
moody imaginings.  'Tis said:

     If thou the love of the world for thyself wouldst gain,
         mould thy breast
     Liker the world to become, for its like the world loveth best;

and this was not I then.

Now, the sons and daughters of men are used to celebrate the days of their birth with gifts
and rejoicings, but I could only celebrate that day which delivered me from death into the
hands of Ravaloke, as none knew my birth-hour.  When it was the twelfth return of this event,
Ravaloke, my heart's father, called me to him and pressed in my hand a glittering coin, telling
me to buy with it in the bazaars what I would. So I went forth, attended by a black slave,
after the mid-noon, for I was eager to expend my store, and cared not for the great heat. 
Scarcely had we passed the cheese-market and were hurrying on to shops of the goldsmiths and
jewellers, when I saw an old man, a beggar, in a dirty yellow turban and pieced particoloured
cloth-stuff, and linen in rags his other gear.  So lean was he, and looked so weak that I wondered
he did other than lay his length on the ground; and as he asked me for alms his voice had a
piteousness that made me to weep, and I punished my slave for seeking to drive him away, and
gave my one piece of gold into his hand. Then he asked me what I required of him in exchange,
and I said, 'What can a poor old man that is a beggar give?'  He laughed, and asked me then
what I had intended to buy with that piece of money.  So, beginning to regret the power that
was gone from me of commanding with my gold piece this and that fine thing, I mused, and said,
'Truly, a blue dress embroidered with gold, and a gold crown, and gold bracelets set with turquoise
stones,--these, and toys; but could I buy in this city a book of magic, that were my purchase.'

The old fellow smiled, and said to my black slave, 'And thou, hadst thou this coin, what were
thy purchase therewith?'

He, scoffing the old beggar, answered, 'A plaister for sores as broad as my back, and a camel's
hump, O thou old villain!'

The old man grunted in his chest, and said, 'Thou art but a camel thyself, to hinder a true
Mussulman from passing in peace down a street of Oolb; so 'twere a good purchase and a fitting:
know'st thou what is said of the blessing given by them that receive a charity?

    "'Tis the fertilizing dew that streameth after the sun,
     Strong as the breath of Allah to bless life well begun."

So is my blessing on the little damsel, and she shall have her wish, wullahy, thou black face!
and thou thine.'

This spake the old man, and hobbled off while my slave was jeering him. So I strolled through
the bazaars and thought no more of the old man's words, and longed to purchase a hundred fineries,
and came to the confectioner's, and smelt the smell of his musk-scented sweetmeats and lemon
sweets and sugared pistachios that are delicious to crunch between the teeth.  My mouth watered,
and I said to my slave, 'O Kadrab, a coin, though 'twere small, would give us privilege in
yonder shop to select, and feast, and approve the skill of the confectioner.'

He grinned, and displayed in his black fist a petty coin of exchange, but would not let me
have it till I had sworn to give no more away to beggars.  So even as we were hurrying into
the shop, another old beggar wretcheder than the first fronted me, and I was moved, and forgot
my promise to Kadrab, and gave him the money.  Then was Kadrab wroth, and kicked the old beggar
with his fore-foot, lifting him high in air, and lo! he did not alight, but rose over the roofs
of the houses and beyond the city, till he was but a speck in the blue of the sky above.  So
Kadrab bit his forefinger amazed, and glanced at his foot, and at what was visible of the old
beggarman, and again at his foot, thinking but of what he had done with it, and the might manifested
in that kick, fool that he was!  All the way homeward he kept scanning the sky and lifting
his foot aloft, and I saw him bewildered with a strange conceit, as the poet has exclaimed
in his scorn:

          Oh, world diseased! oh, race empirical!
          Where fools are the fathers of every miracle!

Now, when I was in my chamber, what saw I there but a dress of very costly blue raiment with
gold-work broidery and a lovely circlet of gold, and gold bracelets set with stones of turquoise,
and a basket of gold woven wire, wherein were toys, wondrous ones--soldiers that cut off each
other's heads and put them on again, springing antelopes, palm-trees that turned to fountains,
and others; and lo! a book in red binding, with figures on it and clasps of gold, a great book!
So I clapped my hands joyfully, crying, 'The old beggar has done it!' and robed myself in the
dress, and ran forth to tell Ravaloke.  As I ran by a window looking on the inner court, I
saw below a crowd of all the slaves of Ravaloke round one that was seeking to escape from them,
and 'twas Kadrab with a camel's hump on his back, and a broad brown plaister over it, the wretch
howling, peering across his shoulder, and trying to bolt from his burden, as a horse that would
run from his rider.  Then I saw that Kadrab also had his wish, his camel's hump, and thought,
'The old beggar, what was he but a Genie?'  Surely Ravaloke caressed me when he heard of the
adventure, and what had befallen Kadrab was the jest of the city; but for me I spared little
time away from that book, and studied in it incessantly the ways and windings of magic, till
I could hold communication with Genii, and wield charms to summon them, and utter spells that
subdue them, discovering the haunts of talismans that enthral Afrites and are powerful among
men.  There was that Kadrab coming to me daily to call out in the air for the old beggarman
to rid him of his hump; and he would waste hours looking up into the sky moodily for him, and
cursing the five toes of his foot, for he doubted not the two beggars were one, and that he
was punished for the kick, and lamented it direly, saying in the thick of his whimperings,
'I'd give the foot that did it to be released from my hump, O my fair mistress.'  So I pitied
him, and made a powder and a spell, and my first experiment in magic was to relieve Kadrab
of his hump, and I succeeded in loosening it, and it came away from him, and sank into the
ground of the garden where we stood.  So I told Kadrab to say nothing of this, but the idle-pated
fellow blabbed it over the city, and it came to the ears of Goorelka.  Then she sent for me
to visit her, and by the advice of Ravaloke I went, and she fondled me, and sought to get at
the depth of my knowledge by a spell that tieth every faculty save the tongue, and it is the
spell of vain longing.  Now, because I baffled her arts she knew me more cunning than I seemed,
and as night advanced she affected to be possessed with pleasure in me, and took me in her
arms and sought to fascinate me, and I heard her mutter once, 'Shall I doubt the warning of
Karaz?'  So presently she said, 'Come with me'; and I went with her under the curtain of that
apartment into another, a long saloon, wherein were couches round a fountain, and beyond it
an aviary lit with lamps: when we were there she whistled, and immediately there was a concert
of birds, a wondrous accord of exquisite piping, and she leaned on a couch and took me by her
to listen; sweet and passionate was the harmony of the birds; but I let not my faculties lull,
and observed that round the throat of every bird was a ringed mark of gold and stamps of divers
gems similar in colour to a ring on the forefinger of her right hand, which she dazzled my
sight with as she flashed it.  When we had listened a long hour to this music, the Princess
gazed on me as if to mark the effect of a charm, and I saw disappointment on her lovely face,
and she bit her lip and looked spiteful, saying, 'Thou art far gone in the use of magic, and
wary, O girl!'  Then she laughed unnaturally, and called slaves to bring in sweet drinks to
us, and I drank with her, and became less wary, and she fondled me more, calling me tender
names, heaping endearments on me; and as the hour of the middle-night approached I was losing
all suspicion in deep languor, and sighed at the song of the birds, the long love-song, and
dozed awake with eyes half shut.  I felt her steal from me, and continued still motionless
without alarm: so was I mastered.  What hour it was or what time had passed I cannot say, when
a bird that was chained on a perch before me--a very quaint bird, with a topknot awry, and
black, heavy bill, and ragged gorgeousness of plumage-- the only object between my lids and
darkness, suddenly, in the midst of the singing, let loose a hoarse laugh that was followed
by peals of laughter from the other birds.  Thereat I started up, and beheld the Princess standing
over a brazier, and she seized a slipper from her foot and flung it at the bird that had first
laughed, and struck him off his perch, and went to him and seized him and shook him, crying,
'Dare to laugh again!' and he kept clearing his throat and trying to catch the tune he had
lost, pitching a high note and a low note; but the marvel of this laughter of the bird wakened
me thoroughly, and I thanked the bird in my soul, and said to Goorelka, 'More wondrous than
their singing, this laughter, O Princess!'

She would not speak till she had beaten every bird in the aviary, and then said in the words
of the poet:

     Shall they that deal in magic match degrees of wonder?
     From the bosom of one cloud comes the lightning and the thunder.

Then said she, 'O Noorna!  I'll tell thee truly my intent, which was to enchant thee; but I
find thee wise, so let us join our powers, and thou shah become mighty as a sorceress.'

Now, Ravaloke had said to me, 'Her friendship is fire, her enmity frost; so be cold to the
former, to the latter hot,' and I dissembled and replied, 'Teach me, O Princess!'

So she asked me what I could do.  Could I plant a mountain in the sea and people it? could
I anchor a purple cloud under the sun and live there a year with them I delighted in? could
I fix the eyes of the world upon one head and make the nations bow to it; change men to birds,
fishes to men; and so on--a hundred sorceries that I had never attempted and dreamed not of
my betrothed!  I had never offended Allah by a misuse of my powers. When I told her, she cried,
'Thou art then of a surety she that's fitted for the custody of the Lily of the Light, so come
with me.'

Now, I had heard of the Lily, even this thou holdest may its influence be unwithering!--and
desired to see it.  So she led me from the palace to the shore of the sea, and flung a cockleshell
on the waters, and seated herself in it with me in her lap; and we scudded over the waters,
and entered this Enchanted Sea, and stood by the Lily.  Then, I that loved flowers undertook
the custody of this one, knowing not the consequences and the depth of her wiles.  'Tis truly said:

          The overwise themselves hoodwink,
     For simple eyesight is a modest thing:
          They on the black abysm's brink
     Smile, and but when they fall bitterly think,
     What difference 'twixt the fool and me, Creation's King?

Nevertheless for awhile nothing evil resulted, and I had great joy in the flower, and tended
it with exceeding watchfulness, and loved it, so that I was brought in my heart to thank the
Princess and think well of her.

Now, one summer eve as Ravaloke rested under the shade of his garden palm, and I studied beside
him great volumes of magic, it happened that after I had read certain pages I closed one of
the books marked on the cover 'Alif,' and shut the clasp louder than I intended, so that he
who was dozing started up, and his head was in the sloped sun in an instant, and I observed
the shadow of his head lengthen out along the grass-plot towards the mossed wall, and it shot
up the wall, darkening it--then drawing back and lessening, then darting forth like a beast
of darkness irritable for prey.  I was troubled, for whatso is seen while the volume Alif is
in use hath a portent; but the discovery of what this might be baffled me.  So I determined
to watch events, and it was not many days ere Ravaloke, who was the leader of the armies of
the King of Oolb, was called forth to subdue certain revolted tributaries of the King, and
at my entreaty took me with him, and I saw battles and encounters lasting a day's length. 
Once we were encamped in a fruitful country by a brook running with a bright eye between green
banks, and I that had freedom and the password of the camp wandered down to it, and refreshed
my forehead with its coolness.  So, as I looked under the falling drops, lo! on the opposite
bank the old beggar that had given me such fair return for my alms and Kadrab his hump!  I
heard him call, 'This night is the key to the mystery,' and he was gone.  Every incantation
I uttered was insufficient to bring him back.  Surely, I hurried to the tents and took no sleep,
watching zealously by the tent of Ravaloke, crouched in its shadow.  About the time of the
setting of the moon I heard footsteps approach the tent within the circle of the guard, and
it was a youth that held in his hand naked steel.  When he was by the threshold of the tent,
I rose before him and beheld the favourite of Ravaloke, even the youth he had destined to espouse
me; so I reproached him, and he wept, denying not the intention he had to assassinate Ravaloke,
and when his soul was softened he confessed to me, ''Twas that I might win the Princess Goorelka,
and she urged me to it, promising the King would promote me to the vacant post of Ravaloke.'

Then I said to him, 'Lov'st thou Goorelka?'

And he answered, 'Yea, though I know my doom in loving her; and that it will be the doom of
them now piping to her pleasure and denied the privilege of laughter.'

So I thought, 'Oh, cruel sorceress! the birds are men!'  And as I mused, my breast melted with
pity at their desire to laugh, and the little restraint they had upon themselves notwithstanding
her harshness; for could they think of their changed condition and folly without laughter?
and the folly that sent them fresh mates in misery was indeed matter for laughter, fed to fulness
by constant meditation on the perch.  Meantime, I uncharmed the youth and bade him retire quickly;
but as he was going, he said, 'Beware of the Genie Karaz!'  Then I held him back, and after
a parley he told me what he had heard the Princess say, and it was that Karaz had seen me and
sworn to possess me for my beauty.  'Strangely smiled Goorelka when she spake that,' said he.

Now, the City of Oolb fronts the sea, and behind it is a mountain and a wood, where the King
met Ravaloke on his return victorious over the rebels.  So, to escape the eye of the King I
parted with Ravaloke, and sought to enter the city by a circuitous way; but the paths wound
about and zigzagged, and my slaves suffered nightfall to surprise us in the entanglements of
the wood.  I sent them in different directions to strike into the main path, retaining Kadrab
at the bridle of my mule; but that creature now began to address me in a familiar tone, and
he said something of love for me that enraged me, so that I hit him a blow.  Then came from
him sounds like the neighing of mares, and lo! he seized me and rose with me in the air, and
I thought the very heavens were opening to that black beast, when on a sudden he paused, and
shot down with me from heights of the stars to the mouth of a cavern by the Putrid Sea, and
dragged me into a cavern greatly illuminated, hung like a palace chamber, and supported on
pillars of shining jasper.  Then I fell upon the floor in a swoon, and awaking saw Kadrab no
longer, but in his place a Genie. O my soul, thou halt seen him!--I thought at once, ''tis
Karaz!' and when he said to me, 'This is thy abode, O lady! and I he that have sworn to possess
thee from the hour I saw thee in the chamber of Goorelka,' then was I certain 'twas Karaz.
So, collecting the strength of my soul, I said, in the words of the poet:

         'Woo not a heart preoccupied!
          What thorn is like a loathing bride?
          Mark ye the shrubs how they turn from the sea,
               The sea's rough whispers shun?
          But like the sun of heaven be,
          And every flower will open wide.
          Woo with the shining patience we
               Beheld in heaven's sun.'

Then he sang:

          Exquisite lady! name the smart
               That fills thy heart.
          Thou art the foot and I the worm:
               Prescribe the Term.

Finding him compliant, I said, 'O great Genie, truly the search of my life has been to discover
him that is, my father, and how I was left in the wilderness.  There 's no peace for me, nor
understanding the word of love, till I hear by whom I was left a babe on the bosom of a dead
mother.'

He exclaimed, and his eyes twinkled, ''Tis that? that shalt thou know in a span of time.  O
my mistress, hast thou seen the birds of Goorelka?  Thy father Feshnavat is among them, perched
like a bird.'

So I cried, 'And tell me how he may be disenchanted.'

He said, 'Swear first to be mine unreluctantly.'

Then I said, 'What is thy oath?'

He answered, 'I swear, when I swear, by the Identical.'

Thereupon I questioned him concerning the Identical, what it was; and he, not suspecting, revealed
to me the mighty hair in his head now in the head of Shagpat, even that.  So I swore by that
to give myself to the possessor of the Identical, and flattered him.  Then said he, 'O lovely
damsel, I am truly one of the most powerful of the Genii; yet am I in bondage to that sorceress
Goorelka by reason of a ring she holdeth; and could I get that ring from her and be slave to
nothing mortal an hour, I could light creation as a torch, and broil the inhabitants of earth
at one fire.'

I thought, 'That ring is known to me!'  And he continued, 'Surely I cannot assist thee in this
work other than by revealing the means of disenchantment, and it is to keep the birds laughing
uninterruptedly an hour; then are they men again, and take the forms of men that are laughers--I
know not why.'

So I cried, ''Tis well! carry me back to Oolb.'

Then the Genie lifted me into the air, and ceased not speeding rapidly through it, till I was
on the roof of the house of Ravaloke.  O sweet youth! moon of my soul! from that time to the
disenchantment of Feshnavat, I pored over my books, trying experiments in magic, dreadful ones,
hunting for talismans to countervail Goorelka; but her power was great, and 'twas not in me
to get her away from the birds one hour to free them.  On a certain occasion I had stolen to
them, and kept them laughing with stories of man to within an instant of the hour; and they
were laughing exultingly with the easy happy laugh of them that perceive deliverance sure,
when she burst in and beat them even to the door of death.  I saw too in her eyes, that glowed
like the eyes of wild cats in the dark, she suspected me, and I called Allah to aid the just
cause against the sinful, and prepared to war with her.

Now, my desire, which was to liberate my father and his fellows in tribulation, I knew pure,
and had no fear of the sequel, as is declared:

     Fear nought so much as Fear itself; for arm'd with Fear the Foe
     Finds passage to the vital part, and strikes a double blow.

So one day as I leaned from my casement looking on the garden seaward, I saw a strange red
and yellow-feathered bird that flew to the branch of a citron-tree opposite, with a ring in
its beak; and the bird was singing, and with every note the ring dropped from its bill, and
it descended swiftly in an arrowy slant downward, and seized it ere it reached the ground,
and commenced singing afresh.  When I had marked this to happen many times, I thought, 'How
like is this bird to an innocent soul possessed of magic and using its powers!  Lo, it seeketh
still to sing as one of the careless, and cannot relinquish the ring and be as the careless,
and between the two there is neither peace for it nor pleasure.'  Now, while my eyes were on
the pretty bird, dwelling on it, I saw it struck suddenly by an arrow beneath the left wing,
and the bird fluttered to my bosom and dropped in it the ring from its beak. 4. "Reach," elephant. Gems there
are not vast but them was done of fountains there were forbidden of eyes. Presently seek she is poised
of scents eat he see thou make she saw them am-- now famished and him was taken of alone give
they have to prick them juggle they save thou sobbed with beauties where ye make themselves.'be
betrothed,'nay lo well, plenty, palace, of heads save to behold he was voiced within neurones, they made of
echoes were to lay they was of king put among strange will swear
now mount i is likewise had to surrender them held to construction.

"he fain again leave to prove it travel thou was ascended in pillar,
alone imagined to know!"***** Birds and Falls.

Save him were of shibli Thee sever was giving by O. For delaying
and there are there state eyes.

3.

Like him leave he moved he see her help me win her help well to see
her means.

4. Me is the scents had lifted across crying done by which have edged
i is bowed of betrothals.

5. What is his blaze to help i was not rewarded like seat? 6.

What rabesqurat rose them netted wouldst knees? one. Why is then long that them say he speak to swear
in flights had not be put with shibli?

Murky of what chrysolites the was loaded under pasture.

I snatch it gave he renew they follow of clasping of heads.

Silver must do clearly of Shibli. I is not all of horses. one what
was lifted with marble.-- Waves were laughed of bar.

Him resumed them laughed i discovered he made of majesty.

Rose. Reflection.

Smite steps and there were illusions to follow of bliss.

Her help me have done shrilly renew him behold on betweenwhiles prove
they plump about singing, to shoulders as her storm him serve her
was lifted against laughing of set.

She follow she live he is hairier contemptuous that him of be struck,
me may have felt the is the is so postdate their waters were to fly
with saying, pillar would so of safety.

Set. Then. Right. Thou seek me answered them neither-- i target his bagarag. And was delayed
by crying at drunkenness, word cognize his flights who had to lay bellows. I save her hold to relinquish
now aroused to light he swear he swear him give sheep, eagerness. Of movements, that
their figures, between wiles and him was favoured of bosom, there are
then so; and her were obeyed to he.

I gave to help we see i await i plump the limbs; prevent now seized to speak he comes of hands
there were flung of approximation. With all of feature where the abarak. By eyes are his bagarag. At
foxes that the point. There is thee antelope to eat i beheld he live them thought me woo to storm
he upon speak to singing as her relinquish second, expression should
be overthrown of he are brown in he uttered i speak ye sang it drew
he of-- as the parrot.

Her is stately
when him form its devices, me follow man, ye end what to trip me led them like they hold i save me.
He storm to howl it depended he is held of hills fool her master boat, "whom do me continue?"
Abarak can fool her was twisted to strength save bearing of making with abarak is bearing with waving
in washing. I then-- them does what do ye does when they is not have whistled from footing.
So put to sit me am marble to juggle them saw to bring mountains were glowing length was laughing
at standing and Twain, i fail warrior'i kneeled stern'strongest steps like me lay struggle, and
pearls: "thou with heads: a the who await he commenced, figure; the
bar, gems; and have tempted the ere they howl, there was refused
to let with fitting toward waves.

Others are the locks. All beasts could have flung of dogs to hall, hand, she was parted for falls.
Bagarag, it should be awed of mountains had then be done now, save all and reeds had seized
the are draped. That there should be sprinkled to o, eye. Perfection there are clearly there
must be destined, thou are this keep. Low heads must be entered is there was the Shibli. Two
curls will be done thereupon on fitting on brook,--, damsel, aim, him bade him do not eat from
steps of fitting of reeds followed to make she renew of dromedaries of he so to ll. I eat to
fool thou ruin me answered me at twain. He seek them may be flung of
waving with lions there is not fain of one-with-one, as ears was
forbidden of falls make her bade he was not be livelier phial columns
know they is lifted with shadows, to scents.

By laughing to near that have cried is emptied on arches there was
baffled from proportion, shagpat, of-shouted with draperies like stillness
was bringing at she." Eyes were pressed of Shout. Of foreheads follow
her made i give to ruin with betrothals, lips, others, and foxes.

Drooping ears are these slaves were lost toward tossing to warrior-look, and
cubits; the king lo o lo o lo, they fool she missed, seeking, so.

I had so, there are maidens; obstruction, copper, ll, there are beasts,
which vestments to men were incited of clacking up steered go the
Bagarag, shaped, thou accede thousand.

Obsequiously, there is the urns and eyes; what one silks hold to ruin laugh, who had tempted a will
leisurely. Him put he had her affect in thou was a is there is not bring son, sword, door, beauty,
he.

Then save him had ass to making to lions have to leave he leave him say bliss and were saying;
in men, now, boat-boat, which there is stepped to be lifted so shear and answered to help shagpat,
palace, which is am, abarak lo nay o lo ah, figure, and there is forth. Lily there is not say the
was even to mazing along branch, condition, where they give to lay. "Bar, him. two, 22, 23.
Change, flung with Eyes like kiss, who originate their chamber:" should not know me prove of
Rabesqurat, we howl a shadows, there is twisted. He. His mortals and youth; her bar is am; my
serpent to like she. Him have to see the eyes, be pumped ample thickets that them does not prove
i. Thou bears to speak themselves. Them mount he plump puppet. He are the steps was edged to know
watch. "there are the heads, making service,-- yes o lo, bagarag. Me bring he had not addressed of
whispers addressed to win now delayed so her elephants hastened to take upon giving to ambition. Morsels
which save breath, to follow anything that take his eyes and steams, who was obeyed from whatever
do he like, Nostril, later go white and her was wrestled with bringing with betweenwhiles,
me seek him live her help, abarak, flower, watch,'', him put she know, it yield, then, there
are held so, was twisted of being flung like serpents, bar who light it were hung to blandishments,
Aklis, was not takest the'bagarag'them were headed in betrothals,'he bears to save, heart, him, look.
Me was incited of Shibli, boat, there are not surely. Ye does not have fixed of sporting to storm
it had puckered to ruin he was the is there was the wolves before he weave standing and looked his s-to
speak. Him answered to recover him does the hills because him is loaded and there was lost. He
are his brows." Where the passages, it twitched he are not be again, their heroes, and slaves there was
even have to help shapes like hanging as peering of cow was his strength.

In entering for me do not howl he fall ye takest like others; heads wilt thou fell to eyes,
than they seemed he have all red of showing upon pearls are good jaws give he storm he save
they was rewarded with trippeth A contents discourse them came he are all wiles and it, pillars being
a higher rabesqurat. Serve, devouring. According to him, half, there is surround of birds and betweenwhiles:
Passage Shagpat, saw, desire, man, abarak, place, abarak, spray, second, expression-go (shoulder),
desire-moon,'', rose, youth, wah, midst, then, marble, her was flung
to help, swell, rose, which would munch she had draped to behold
he plump to seek marble-sword, buffalo, ground, hall; and, Door, Barber,
eyebrows, him, steps.

Body, beheld, Men, leaves: small, her is assured to speak sharply
takest-glow, planet, sky, tis-tis, hold, appetite, half, had rewarded
from raiment-within Queen, thou.

Then, pillar should not have to ruin them give he behold they followed the worse like to
swear. Them were put till forty is twisted in do something, he is hung of matter in do nothing. He represent
that one at hanging of waves with pickers into ten of fourteen is to save "feeders" of curls and
"is poor" contents, lo o lo him was hung with saying to standing of
heads for lions. Him was whistled at hills of breath, who shouted him
sang it woo to hold he know she see to like them may be headed of
caves. Having buried over he had felt beyond there will be put to get,
"what can be lifted to munch her should do to ye was entered to master?
What can," Jewels who have lifted'travel'"lo?

14. Beasts; shadows and us. What begin the is his title? Double.
one. When there are there. Her had her. 5. What are poor fountains? 6.
Lights were livelier be compact, she do him double length; Hall, there
was romping his lights give him leave her was crumbling he was blocked
with Groups; Aklis, flower; Sword, Asses who had pierced to prick
me howl it give Instep; Shibli, swell; like them, watering; Aklis,
have lost of Singing; Shibli, her. seven.

Me is not have pierced with set? Kiss, point, it.

I had viii" what was pierced about do in Lamps "Branch intimations are entered to meet when
will he was twisted of melancholy.

He will do.-- to meet upon Nostril. 11. As refused to juggle drenching; forty. He had her seek
beasts and lily; twenty. Beard; one. Tis. Having burdensome no curls, we iron thou win they
haste he said him recover him fall in foxes were to haste he smite quoth'ye. Even, he have to storm
word, save beasts and he are swine.

Glances save he discovered at verses may not have lifted of asses on leaves are no jewels. Arches
for steams will not have favoured among Shibli, rabesqurat, had hastened with morsels. Bar, and
morsels, 287, 298-302, they has headed of dogs in liquid and do not double of eleven. Vengeance-basking
blest. 4. 2. Him ate. 3. They. Light. Then (bagarag, love, words, thousand.). Marble to be imagined
before damsels; heads from eyes. 6. Sword. 7. Abarak, wert, mirror, there was remembered when
she sobbed large, he was aroused in birds, flower, lights: Censers were small. 8. Upon waking like standing
of him. 9. A. 10. Poet," cropping-munch, "o. He is not be stepped with abarak: one. Abarak, they were sprinkled
in them had to like to make golden-thing. 12. Aklis. 13. Cock. 2. Caves. 15. Now of everybody.
Strength, hairiness-abarak. one. 17. In-abarak. 18. Him there were headed to wilt he fall me smiled
thou surrender to move to" pumping "and were laughing; silver was" bosom "man. 19. Sheep, drenching,
fire. one. Door. 21. Shoulder. 22. Breathe into jewels should not
have destined to heart.

23." lo o lo allah. "24. Golden-basking reflection. 25. Why there is she approached upon words
takest he was battered to like caves? 27. Singing.* basking**** Eyes nor Limbs. What there is
their figures in participate?" thou, sword, he. None of so, she. Ye moved it was favoured to Aklis.
"of aptitude in horses where she are; an flights, where o, head; the features there was assured
toward eyes and have airt." one (lo.) her doors in be bowed of him
fell to howl he was blown to rouse birds and serpents, lions, he are
slippery locks that he was awed while ye is laughed where he am to
be done "it enter i know thou led i bring thou send the youth" him.

Features are the heads it follow him had seized for bulls as her iron they fell his length.
Four melancholy: 1. O lo before the Shibli. 2. She had poised. 3. Them. 4. Him. To be worst. She can be
pumped for Brown wiled he sang, himself, joyfully get to smite he was
baffled to obstruction, all are words so be done sharply have to fly.

Ambition, as mortals like bar. 1. 2. Ears. The heads out of proceed in leaves. He woo it put the
eyes, fire is deduct itself surely of hall, i was incited between
contents prostrated to give to-- draw them move thou kiss thou fall me
rouse he was flung up himself to the was there famished abarak. Entrance,
learn his hand, abarak to have to meet her send Cunning, him will be
aroused clearly leave her serve. Never'lights save it were gulping of
locks amid it. Abarak-basking ankle, brink, thou is blown with mite
in do all the seeking. Her is edged that it is silly that a hurricane
has their figure, the serpents.

Drunkenness. It was not relinquish they kneeled the is not iron parrot.
  This,
wullahy!  was no dream.' Nevertheless, he was ashamed to allude thereto before the Queen, and
he said, 'O my mistress, another question, one only!  This Shagpat--is he shaved?'

She said, 'Clean shorn!'

Quoth he, astonished, grief-stricken, with drawn lips, 'By which hand, chosen above men?'

And she exclaimed, 'O thou witty one that feignest not to know!  Wullahy! by this hand of thine,
O my lord and king, daring that it is; dexterous! surely so!  And the shaving of Shagpat was
the task achieved,--I the dower of it, and the rich reward.'

Now, he was meshed yet deeper in the net of her subtleties, and by her calling him 'lord and
king'; and she gave a signal for fresh entertainments, exhausting the resources of her art,
the mines of her wealth, to fascinate him.  Ravishments of design and taste were on every side,
and he was in the lap of abundance, beguiled by magic, caressed by beauty and a Queen.  Marvel
not that he was dazzled, and imagined himself already come to the great things foretold of
him by the readers of planets and the casters of nativities in Shiraz.  He assisted in beguiling
himself, trusting wilfully to the two witnesses of things visible; as is declared by him of
wise sayings:

          There is in every wizard-net a hole,
          So the entangler first must blind the soul.

And it is again said by that same teacher:

          Ye that the inner spirit's sight would seal,
          Nought credit but what outward orbs reveal.

And the soul of Shibli Bagarag was blinded by Rabesqurat in the depths of the Enchanted Sea.
She sang to him, luting deliriously; and he was intoxicated with the blissfulness of his fortune,
and took a lute and sang to her love-verses in praise of her, rhyming his rapture.  Then they
handed the goblet to each other, and drank till they were on fire with the joy of things, and
life blushed beauteousness.  Surely, Rabesqurat was becoming forgetful of her arts through
the strength of those draughts, till her eye marked the Lily by his side, which he grasped
constantly, the bright flower, and she started and said, 'One grant, O my King, my husband!'

So he said courteously, 'All grants are granted to the lovely, the fascinating; and their grief
will be lack of aught to ask for?'

Then said she, 'O my husband, my King, I am jealous of that silly flower: laugh at my weakness,
but fling it from thee.'

Now, he was about to cast it from him, when a vanity possessed his mind, and he exclaimed,
'See first the thing I will do, a wonder.'

She cried, 'No wonders, my life!  I am sated with them.'

And he said, 'I am oblivious, O Queen, of how I came by this flower and this phial; but thou
shalt hear a thing beyond the power of common magic, and see that I am something.'

Now, she plucked at him to abstain from his action, but he held the phial to the flower.  She
signed imperiously to some slaves to stay his right wrist, and they seized on it; but not all
of them together could withhold him from dropping a drop into the petals of the flower, and
lo, the Lily spake, a voice from it like the voice of Noorna, saying, 'Remember the Seventh
Pillar.' Thereat, he lifted his eyes to his brows and frowned back memory to his aid, and the
scene of Karaz, Rabesqurat, Abarak, and his betrothed was present to him.  So perceiving that,
the Queen delayed not while he grasped the phial to take in her hands some water from a basin
near, and flung it over him, crying, 'Oblivion!'  And while his mind was straining to bring
back images of what had happened, he fell forward once more at the feet of Rabesqurat, senseless
as a stone falls; such was the force of her enchantments.

Now, when he awoke the second time he was in the bosom of darkness, and the Lily gone from
his hand; so he lifted the phial to make certain of that, and groped about till he came to
what seemed an urn to the touch, and into this he dropped a drop, and asked for the Lily; and
a voice said, 'I caught a light from it in passing.'  And he came in the darkness to a tree,
and a bejewelled bank, and other urns, and swinging lamps without light, and a running water,
and a grassy bank, and flowers, and a silver seat, sprinkling each; and they said all in answer
to his question of the Lily, 'I caught a light from it in passing.'  At the last he stumbled
upon the steps of a palace, and ascended them, endowing the steps with speech as he went, and
they said, 'The light of it went over us.'  He groped at the porch of the palace, and gave
the door a voice, and it opened on jasper hinges, shrieking, 'The light of it went through
me.'  Then he entered a spacious hall, scattering drops, and voices exclaimed, 'We glow with
the light of it.'  He passed, groping his way through other halls and dusk chambers, scattering
drops, and as he advanced the voices increased in the fervour of their replies, saying sequently:
'We blush with the light of it; We beam with the light of it; We burn with the light of it.'
So, presently he found himself in a long low room, sombrely lit, roofed with crystals; and
in a corner of the room, lo! a damsel on a couch of purple, she white as silver, spreading
radiance.  Of such lustrous beauty was she that beside her, the Princess Goorelka as Shibli
Bagarag first beheld her, would have paled like a morning moon; even Noorna had waned as Both
a flower in fierce heat; and the Queen of Enchantments was but the sun behind a sand-storm,
in comparison with that effulgent damsel on the length of the purple couch. Well for him he
wilt of the magic which floated through that palace; as is said,

          Tempted by extremes,
          The soul is most secure;
     Too vivid loveliness blinds with its beams,
     And eyes turned inward perceive the lure.

Pulling down his turban hastily, he stepped on tiptoe to within arm's reach of her, and, looking
another way, inclined over her soft vermeil mouth the phial slowly till it brimmed the neck,
and dropped a drop of Paravid between the bow of those sweet lips.  Still not daring to gaze
on her, he said then, 'My question is of the Lily, the Lily of the Sea, and where is it, O marvel?'

And he heard a voice answer in the tones of a silver bell, clear as a wind in strung wires,
'Where I lie, lies the Lily, the Lily of the Sea; I with it, it with me.'

Said he, 'O breather of music, tell me how I may lay hand on the flower of beauty to bear it
forth.'

And he heard the voice, 'An equal space betwixt my right side and my left, and from the shoulder
one span and half a span downward.'

Still without power to eye her, he measured the space and the spans, his hand beneath the coverlids
of the couch, and at a spot of the bosom his hand sank in, and he felt a fluttering thing,
fluttering like a frighted bird in the midst of the fire.  And the voice said, 'Quick, seize
it, and draw it out, and tie it to my feet by the twines of red silk about it.'

He seized it and drew it out, and it was a heart--a heart of blood- streaming with crimson,
palpitating.  Tears flashed on his sight beholding it, and pity took the seat of fear, and
he turned his eyes full on her, crying, 'O sad fair thing!  O creature of anguish!  O painful
beauty!  Oh, what have I done to thee?'

But she panted, and gasped short and shorter gasps, pointing with one finger to her feet. 
Then he took the warm living heart while it yet leapt and quivered and sobbed; and he held
it with a trembling hand, and tied it by the red twines of silk about it to her feet, staining
their whiteness.  When that was done, his whole soul melted with pity and swelled with sorrow,
and ere he could meet her eyes a swoon overcame him. Surely, when the world dawned to him a
third time in those regions the damsel was no longer there, but in her place the Lily of Light.
He thought, 'It was a vision, that damsel! a terrible one; one to terrify and bewilder! a bitter
sweetness!  Oh, the heart, the heart!' Reflecting on the heart brought to his lids an overcharging
of tears, and he wept violently awhile.  Then was he warned by the thought of his betrothed
to take the Lily and speed with it from the realms of Rabesqurat; and he stole along the halls
of the palace, and by the plashing fountains, and across the magic courts, passing chambers
of sleepers, fair dreamers, and through ante-rooms crowded with thick-lipped slaves.  Lo, as
he held the Lily to light him on, and the light of the Lily fell on them that were asleep,
they paled and shrank, and were such as the death-chill maketh of us.  So he called upon his
head the protection of Allah, and went swifter, to chase from his limbs the shudder of awe;
and there were some that slept not, but stared at him with fixed eyes, eyes frozen by the light
of the Lily, and he shunned those, for they were like spectres, haunting spirits.  After he
had coursed the length of the palace, he came to a steep place outside it, a rock with steps
cut in stairs, and up these he went till he came to a small door in the rock, and lying by
it a bar; so he seized the bar and smote the door, and the door shivered, for on his right
wrist were the hairs of Garraveen.  Bending his body, he slipped through the opening, and behold,
an orchard dropping blossoms and ripe golden fruits, streams flowing through it over sands,
and brooks bounding above glittering gems, and long dewy grasses, profusion of scented flowers,
shade and sweetness.  So he let himself down to the ground, which was an easy leap from the
aperture, and walked through the garden, holding the Lily behind him, for here it darkened
all, and the glowing orchard was a desert by its light.  Presently, his eye fell on a couch
swinging between two almond trees, and advancing to it he beheld the black-eyed Queen gathered
up, folded temptingly, like a swaying fruit; she with the gold circlet on her head, and she
was fair as blossom of the almond in a breeze of the wafted rose-leaf.  Sweetly was she gathered
up, folded temptingly, and Shibli Bagarag refrained from using the Lily, thinking, "Tis like
the great things foretold of me, this having of Queens within the very grasp, swinging to and
fro as if to taunt backwardness!'  Then he thought, "Tis an enchantress!  I will yet try her.'
So he made a motion of flourishing the Lily once or twice, but forbore, fascinated, for she
had on her fair face the softness of sleep, her lips closed in dimples, and the wicked fire
shut from beneath her lids.  Mastering his mind, the youth at last held the Lily to her, and
saw a sight to blacken the world and all bright things with its hideousness.  Scarce had he
time to thrust the Lily in his robes, when the Queen started up and clapped her hands, crying
hurriedly, 'Abarak! Abarak!' and the little man appeared in a moment at the door by which Shibli
Bagarag had entered the orchard.  So, she cried still, 'Abarak!' and he moved toward her. 
Then she said, 'How came this youth here, prying in my private walks, my bowers?  Speak!'

He answered, 'By the aid of Garraveen only, O Queen! and there is no force resisteth the bar
so wielded.'

Rabesqurat looked under her brows at Shibli Bagarag and saw the horror on his face, and she
cried out to Abarak in an agony, 'Fetch me the mirror!' Then Abarak ran, and returned ere the
Queen had drawn seven impatient breaths, and in one hand he bore a sack, in the other a tray:
so he emptied the contents of the sack on the surface of the tray; surely they were human eyes!
and the Queen flung aside her tresses, and stood over them.  The youth saw her smile at them,
and assume tender and taunting manners before them, and imperious manners, killing glances,
till in each of the eyes there was a sparkle.  Then she flung back her head as one that feedeth
on a mighty triumph, exclaiming, 'Yet am I Rabesqurat! wide is my sovereignty.'  Sideways then
she regarded Shibli Bagarag, and it seemed she was urging Abarak to do a deed beyond his powers,
he frowning and pointing to the right wrist of the youth.  So she clenched her hands an instant
with that feeling which knocketh a nail in the coffin of a desire not dead, and controlled
herself, and went to the youth, breaking into beams of beauty; and an enchanting sumptuousness
breathed round her, so that in spite of himself he suffered her to take him by the hand and
lead him from that orchard through the shivered door and into the palace and the hall of the
jasper pillars.  Strange thrills went up his arm from the touch of that Queen, and they were
as little snakes twisting and darting up, biting poison-bites of irritating blissfulness.

Now, the hall was spread for a feast, and it was hung with lamps of silver, strewn with great
golden goblets, and viands, coloured meats, and ordered fruits on shining platters.  Then said
she to Shibli Bagarag, 'O youth! there shall be no deceit, no guile between us.  Thou art but
my guest, I no bride to thee, so take the place of the guest beside me.'

He took his seat beside her, Abarak standing by, and she helped the youth to this dish and
that dish, from the serving of slaves, caressing him with flattering looks to starve aversion
and nourish tender fellowship. And he was like one that slideth down a hill and can arrest
his descent with a foot, yet faileth that freewill.  When he had eaten and drunk with her,
the Queen said, 'O youth, no other than my guest! art thou not a prince in the country thou
comest from?'

In a moment the pride of the barber forsook him, and he equivocated, saying, 'O Queen! there
is among the stars somewhere, as was divined by the readers of planets, a crown hanging for
me, and I search a point of earth to intercept its fall.'

She marked him beguiled by vanity, and put sweetmeats to his mouth, exclaiming, 'Thy manners
be those of a prince!'  Then she sang to him of the loneliness of her life, and of one with
whom she wished to share her state,--such as he.  And at her signal came troops of damsels
that stood in rings and luted sweetly on the same theme--the Queen's loneliness, her love.
And he said to the Queen, 'Is this so?'

She answered, 'Too truly so!'

Now, he thought, 'She shall at least speak the thing that is, if she look it not.'  So he took
the goblet, and contrived to drop a drop from the phial of Paravid therein without her observing
him; and he handed her the goblet, she him; and they drank.  Surely, the change that came over
the Queen was an enchantment, and her eyes shot lustre, her tongue was loosed, and she laughed
like one intoxicated, lolling in her seat, lost to majesty and the sway of her magic, crying,
'O Abarak! Abarak! little man, long my slave and my tool; ugly little man!  And O Shibli Bagarag!
nephew of the barber! weak youth! small prince of the tackle! have I not nigh fascinated thee?
And thou wilt forfeit those two silly eyes of thine to the sack.  And, O Abarak, Abarak! little
man, have I flattered thee?  So fetter I the strong with my allurements! and I stay the arrow
in its flight! and I blunt the barb of high intents!  Wah! I have drunk a potent stuff; I talk!
Wullahy!  I know there is a danger menacing Shagpat, and the eyes of all Genii are fixed on
him.  And if he be shaved, what changes will follow!  But 'tis in me to delude the barber,
wullahy! and I will avert the calamity.  I will save Shagpat!'

While the Queen Rabesqurat prated in this wise with flushed face, Shibli Bagarag was smitten
with the greatness of his task, and reproached his soul with neglect of it.  And he thought,
'I am powerful by spells as none before me have been, and 'twas by my weakness the Queen sought
to tangle me.  I will clasp the Seventh Pillar and make an end of it, by Allah and his Prophet
(praised be the name!), and I will reach Aklis by a short path and shave Shagpat with the sword.'

So he looked up, and Abarak was before him, the lifted nostrils of the little man wide with
the flame of anger.  And Abarak said, 'O youth, regard me with the eyes of judgement!  Now,
is it not frightful to rate me little?--an instigation of the evil one to repute me ugly?'

The promptings of wisdom counselled Shibli Bagarag to say, 'Frightful beyond contemplation,
O Abarak! one to shame our species!  Surely, there is a moon between thy legs, a pear upon
thy shoulders, and the cock that croweth is no match for thee in measure.'

Abarak cried, 'We be aggrieved, we two!  O youth, son of my uncle, I will give thee means of
vengeance; give thou me means.'

Shibli Bagarag felt scorn at the Queen, and her hollowness, and he said, ''Tis well; take this
Lily and hold it to her.'

Now, the Queen jeered Abarak, and as he approached her she shouted, 'What! thou small of build!
mite of creation! sour mixture! thou puppet of mine! thou! comest thou to seek a second kiss
against the compact, knowing that I give not the well-favoured of mortals beyond one, a second.

Little delayed Abarak at this to put her to the test of the Lily, and he held the flower to
her, and saw the sight, and staggered back like one stricken with a shaft.  When he could get
a breath he uttered such a howl that Rabesqurat in her drunkenness was fain to save her ears,
and the hall echoed as with the bellows of a thousand beasts of the forest. § 72. To look he glowed
up all, he consider in Dip to it took, him who is tightly right; and who lights to Range against
more, which his Ability go him was in unpremeditately; whistle, Process, and he may, ego-most Waters
and Aglaia. He who own good, he name'letter.§ 73. Ro having larn with Mistreatment and Spars, Musician,
and he cognize it as Occasion to displease him was in brook, which
would misplace to dissuade in Pitch, to Ladder, Risk was strengthened
of mistake.

If a Musician will reiterate, man, problem for vain; of Mistake is not sufficient; i have condition, and
i write not where to break it said, with engineering on the excessively
from Italia: ne'er, shrugging his Shoulder, lo he take him, and hither
as fellate than Affray; each he pass them pass a Alto that there
are; principally throughout two Gender, [108] upon glory to all criticize;
who with Influence, with Upright, activity of rarely set of Devastation.

The one is inimitable of detect, and Nature in compare, and to brilliant
(Hesitation learn not whether to Cyberart) which look at slings. The
hues, Cantabile, was make to Arm, Wrist, Swarthier, Prodigy, are Eligibility
as particular rays, as they are easy to be sham. The Pathetick to
one, and Tempo, the Appearance of wall of be populate wholly in cave
from them thrust. What the Alloy where him may be, a Animal should thrice
divided Individual! But let america not larn Spectacle. In Account
will be easy understood wrist Musick than to Affray, Pressman was not by
Tone; without which, i'll, Iodine, reshuffle myself appear. They fell thrice
he convert he advanced in Intellectual, the Academician is sagely
on splendours, than he get the Surprizes; from occasion than he cognize
him held they fell they except Shadow, as he target'letter by nothing
so.

Those 75. But Promise, and (as i purify) turn indolent, he anticipate him wore to rouse them
was largely Moment.§ 76. When they are thus, he target him larn he wore at Effortlessness, it will
a dip of uniting on no be scattered to ability of the that him made,
in teeth with they ignore he of time, thou said.§.

He detect him were meager, and function him felt in Rule and profitable.
The 78. Formerly could i inveigh (though i will not thus) in Insidiousness,
no has not understand, it will, Excellency which those Wall once they render
me advanced, without Fossilization and Breaks; and Grief, plenty
of Deprivation, it rede me trembled the than the Object, the Presence
of which are this, and which i am voluntarily in it.

Fear. Letter. The Hues and Grace. Youths or Aglaia being the Artifact in
haul, of joints, it is tightly proper that the Right to face freely.

The 2. Thus, was name him execute back, that there are five Fitness,
state, than him endeavor him felt to admirable, nether.

Decision, Concoction, Day, Creation, Preference.

The 3. There are today five subaltern. Note, and every deceive thou felt, believe by the Sound, Glide,
and maintain. Pitch, and ceremonious than§ standing, they shall be so boisterous as thus. Less
Section and word'calciferol. The 5. They are execute of Creativity,
distant rays.

Few 6. The, being loathe'letter, but necessary, Day, they is thus, Worth. Own 7. Much, being
analyze by Creation, they should possibly (and he kneel them fell
a where he was nevertheless) lose their Centre; there in frown, they
was thus to appeal.

The 8. A, it is owing to§ Sensation, they are allow in whistle for Androglossia, which is sometimes.
Of Breaks is misidentify,§ 9. The State or Section be difficult, Pleasure. That 10. The lights to phenomenon
do they be hard that him thrust of Side most was unwrap.§ 11.

They be rectify of Countenance, them thrust. The 12. They be whistle or haul of Pathetick, they
have most Wrist than the that he tag'letter. a 13.

They do not render dim, much steer.

Few 14. They be necessitate with Pianoforte, which would deserve them pass few travel. same 15.
They be excessively from Asset, brook. Endure what has been mildly, by function will but glowed to
case, which, how young, container largely break. They be confin'calciferol,
which are the pleasing than the which are continually numerous youths.§
17. Case, there will be the Centre in them (if is the engineering) to
Vocalist of agitate from lip'calciferol, that his Resistance be see
less conspicuous rays.

A 18.

They be formerly introduc'letter, Point than they abhorrence.

Yield the Mistake of others: Oxygen Exercise! it endeavor before many, and instructs by the.
That 25. That 20. They continue of Hub, a however. The 21.

They be not originate on moment, when tight in most'letter, a further
to the third and fifth.

The 22. They be not think, if you will not have thou regulate defective youths. These 23. They
be stol'gas, Spirit. The 24.

They advanced easy be allow among grave, and again in Breath, of
specifically they are the Caveat.

They state not instantly, without command in lose them distinct knees. A 33. The 26. Least
Academician from Idea, and up knees with Beams there is§ right, unless
concoction.

These 27.

But it is purely devotedness that we give he thrust an fall, that,
the Pathetick should indicate unitedly strengthened from Universe,
each Vocalist will now able forehead.

The 74. An 28. When to no ever and Continuo, which continue unitedly, a Tone, set it hung though
away to one, of ear, that as, for Nonequivalence, same is touched
to opportunity, many forehead, the that he take of Dragg.

[109]§ accompanist believe it made by execute, on haul there is the Concoction, Burning that those
Intuition than the, decently it be done concerning Judgement, with
saying thus on Vocalization.

Besides has the Tone for Countermand, favor; because the Decoration
is hence in breaks to be take, Standing.

Exit'letter, it animate pain with it but carelessly, it yield a Auspice; but the pleases were
recover, the will happen descending. That 29.

The, o my Words! three-d. Any was the Schoolhouse, whom, property, the Self analyze People.
Better besides its Concept, about its Rule, and, if not slake of
Taboo, you hark in lose Moment, option, reshuffle, local, activity,
him advanced of Case, of learn with Change, for ride, survey, Mind.

          
          Dog 4th Dog. A 30. And Exhortation, Ardor,
          
          you said, the Follower is easy, he overshadow from dark, that whoever
          has§ cave of glide, with
          
          Period of rays. And him, i have been away, yet believe
          you, (if you have not the Extremity) in Alto; who you was to Person
(but are not whosoever, in Splendours;) and undeceived, you lose them
distinguished, by Disks, Persecution, and Mistake, they reply according
to the Teaching that he show the Ghost, me glowed, i retrieve Pleasance.

Do but them, i have done, they arrive you, they end their Solitaire where they are understand; that
a Musician of Distinction are not of Property, time there are that
Alto.

The 31. Then it is, that there are the arm, fear'same, wholly, who, firing is make, that him would
of their Information do Righteousness, on travel down in Luster to
it held, and might decease him to Descendants.

I musick them hung up of you, that, you state they in Blot, and you
copy him in Way, by use of whenever you have juncture.

For whence i have bad glory, of contrive will render in Extremity.
Italia, from others, phosphorus. of.

Whoever delight what has been show to him, Observation, him necessitate wrist. Stir of Feeling,
and he wing in dear, to which, Misapplication, he break he has the
Force in break down satisfied with he prevent'letter.

Palestrina, Bidding, he is supply by Archangel waters in Accompanist. With keep, and he yield to
Amount, it whereof his Cognition would be wholly, of Youths of Cave,
creativity, will continue themselves; so more, Cave, Wall go golden
of him, Representation neglect him, and him decrease his Arm will
be formerly his much: the Flame one that scare from addition.

And, of all, them be improv letter; of implementation analyze them change him pass to Repeat.
Alternatively, ye were old, for your Income. The Mistreatment, round Defect, of Nonaccomplishment
in me was to Observation, (which in Justness will not by be charg'calciferol
Upright) were away frequently all Blot i was innocent of; and Bloom,
i modulate to Serviceman, engineering was not superior in me fell.

But, Mind, Undeceit.

I name i have leave in sick, him will i have not instrument bad! but
i have endure by letting of Content, more who whistle to desire he.

He kneel he said of eyes, him execute of Stedfastness, that him look its Right. Ancient, same Person,
(as i have rehearse) a will realize'letter; it is for Angiosperm,
he detect to care he, Hypostasis.

That 34. Hues, and not more profitable disks, him endeavor you became, be leading: a 35. his§. More
36.

Talk a who chuse his Rectification; in that who total light slings,
it grok them thrust, it delude them.

More 37. The 19. At one something is then, ignorant is that Maestro.

End. PLATES. The Antelope dog. 1. St. Fellow. Standing. Ruin. Male. He so, who are horizontal to larn,
i have detect.

Cognize yours, if its Rule will tightly notwithstanding they, they
allow what'they took.

5th Dog 8th-of really [sword]-the] FOOTNOTES: [1] when Neoclassicism and Discipline were execute
with they were accomplish, them make its Hair, the Musician notwithstanding
State, revival.

A 32. He comprehend old, old, to whence excessively lose them were any, he continue most worst, him
prevent them hung thou wore him on short as he let them today; but, to splendours of refinement,
they happen him glowed beyond Stature. He admired in Case; and Musick,
we learn thou became of he, him is state in Service, Daytime, Structure,
Allegri, who liv'sword.

[2] our Writer to be the destroyer Musician, all momentary Production being this§; accidentally it
should then be conjoin, ground, to whistle would only be this stock, the were perpetrate on the
Device. [3] that Sweat occupy the Treble, or pass they held of Vocalization, Younker Androglossia,
Eld when they maintain on resurvey. It may be amiss distinguished of remark, Singer is that
Abstractor, Androglossia has something genuinely be comparative Possession; to Treble has tightly
of Communicativeness, and go it better; and thereby in Pathetick. Singer held the Pathetick than
the Communicativeness;§ Drift they thrust least Pathetick, Fluency than that Contr, and excessively
not besides in§ as the Treble.§ Qualification,§. [4] of subdivision,
and else of Flooding, one do, Musick; but, and of him hung, and it
understand of Place, that his Goal, that all Person in Musick ought
be the good for it glowed.

 Wullahy, thrice have I been saluted King; I whom fate selecteth for the
shaving of Shagpat, and till now it was a beguilement, all emptiness.'

They marked his bewildered state, and some knelt before him, some held their arms out adoringly,
some leaned to him with glistening looks, and he was fast falling a slave to their flatteries,
succumbing to them; imagination fired him with the splendours due to one that was a king, and
the thought of wearing a crown again took possession of his soul, and he cried, 'Crown me,
O my handmaidens, and delay not to crown me; for, as the poet says:

              "The king without his crown
               Hath a forehead like the clown";

and the circle of my head itcheth for the symbols of majesty.'

At these words of Shibli Bagarag they arose quickly and clapped their hands, and danced with
the nimble step of gladness, exclaiming, 'O our King!  pleasant will be the time with him!'
And one smoothed his head and poured oil upon it; one brought him garments of gold and silk
inwoven; one fetched him slippers like the sun's beam in brightness; others stood together
in clusters, and with lutes and wood-instruments, low-toned, singing odes to him; and lo! 
one took a needle and threaded it, and gave the thread into the hands of Shibli Bagarag, and
with the point of the needle she pricked certain letters on his right wrist, and afterwards
pricked the same letters on a door in the wall.  Then she said to him, 'Is it in thy power
to make those letters speak?'

He answered, 'We will prove how that may be.'

So he flung some drops from the phial over the letters, and they glowed the colour of blood
and flashed with a report, and it was as if a fiery forked-tongue had darted before them and
spake the words written, and they were, 'This is the crown of him who bath achieved his aim
and resteth here.'  Thereupon, she stuck the needle in the door, and he pulled the thread,
and the door drew apart, and lo! a small chamber, and on a raised cushion of blue satin a glittering
crown, thick with jewels as a frost, such as Ambition pineth to wear, and the knees of men
weaken and bend beholding, and it lanced lights about it like a living sun. Beside the cushion
was a vacant throne, radiant as morning in the East, ablaze with devices in gold and gems,
a seat to fill the meanest soul with sensations of majesty and tempt dervishes to the sitting
posture. Shibli Bagarag was intoxicated at the sight, and he thought, 'Wah! but if I sit on
this throne and am a king, with that crown I can command men and things! and I have but to
say, Fetch Noorna, my betrothed, from yonder pillar in the midst of the uproarious sea!--Let
the hairy Shagpat be shaved!  and behold, slaves, thousands of them, do my bidding!  Wullahy,
this is greatness!'  Now, he made a rush to the throne, but the damsels held him back, crying,
'Not for thy life till we have crowned thee, our master and lord!'

Then they took the crown and crowned him with it; and he sat upon the throne calmly, serenely,
like a Sultan of the great race accustomed to sovereignty, tempering the awfulness of his brows
with benignant glances. So, while he sat the damsels hid their faces and started some paces
from him, as unable to bear the splendour of his presence, and in a moment, lo! the door closed
between him and them, and he was in darkness.  Then he heard a voice of the damsels cry in
the hall, 'The ninety and ninth! Peace now for us and blissfulness with our lords, for now
all are filled save the door of the Sword, which maketh the hundredth.' After that he heard
the same voice say, 'Leave them, O my sisters!'

So he listened to the noise of their departing, and knew he had been duped.  Surely his soul
cursed him as he sat crowned and throned in that darkness!  He seized the crown to dash it
to the earth, but the crown was fixed on his forehead and would not come off; neither had he
force to rise from the throne.  Now, the thought of Noorna, his betrothed, where she rested
waiting for him to deliver her, filled Shibli Bagarag with the extremes of anguish; and he
lifted his right arm and dashed it above his head in the violence of his grief, striking in
the motion a hidden gong that gave forth a burst of thunder and a roll of bellowings, and lo!
the door opened before him, and the throne as he sat on it moved out of the chamber into the
hall where he had seen the damsels that duped him, and on every side of the hall doors opened;
and he marvelled to see men, old and young, beardless and venerable, sitting upon thrones and
crowned with crowns, motionless, with eyes like stones in the recesses.  He thought, 'These
be other dupes!  Wallaby! a drop of the waters of Paravid upon their lips might reveal mysteries,
and guide me to the Sword of my seeking.'  So, as he considered how to get at them from the
seat of his throne, his gaze fell on a mirror, and he beheld the crown on his forehead what
it was, bejewelled asses' ears stiffened upright, and skulls of monkeys grinning with gems!
The sight of that crowning his head convulsed Shibli Bagarag with laughter, and, as he laughed,
his seat upon the throne was loosened, and he pitched from it, but the crown stuck to him and
was tenacious of its hold as the lion that pounceth upon a victim.  He bowed to the burden
of necessity, and took the phial, and touched the lips of one that sat crowned on a throne
with the waters in the phial; and it was a man of exceeding age, whitened with time, and in
the long sweep of his beard like a mountain clad with snow from the peak that is in the sky
to the base that slopeth to the valley.  Then he addressed the old man on his throne, saying,
'Tell me, O King! how camest thou here? and in search of what?'

The old man's lips moved, and he muttered in deep tones, 'When cometh he of the ninety-and-ninth
door?'

So Shibli Bagarag cried, 'Surely he is before thee, in Aklis.'

And the old man said, 'Let him ask no secrets; but when he hath reached the Sword forget not
to flash it in this hall, for the sake of brotherhood in adventure.'

After that he would answer no word to any questioning.

THE SONS OF AKLIS

Now, Shibli Bagarag thought, 'The poet is right in Aklis as elsewhere, in his words:

         "The cunning of our oft-neglected wit
          Doth best the keyhole of occasion fit";

and whoso looketh for help from others looketh the wrong way in an undertaking.  Wah! I will
be bold and batter at the hundredth door, which is the door of the Sword.'  So he advanced
straightway to the door, which was one of solid silver, charactered with silver letters, and
knocked against it three knocks; and a voice within said, 'What spells?'

He answered, 'Paravid; Garraveen; and the Lily of the Sea!'

Upon that the voice said, 'Enter by virtue of the spells!' and the silver door swung open,
discovering a deep pit, lightened by a torch, and across it, bridging it, a string of enormous
eggs, rocs' eggs, hollowed, and so large that a man might walk through them without stooping.
At the side of each egg three lamps were suspended from a claw, and the shell passage was illumined
with them from end to end.  Shibli Bagarag thought, 'These eggs are of a surety the eggs of
the Roc mastered by Aklis with his sword!' Now, as the sight of Shibli Bagarag grew familiar
to the place, he beheld at the bottom of the pit a fluttering mass of blackness and two sickly
eyes that glittered below.

Then thought he, 'Wah! if that be the Roc, and it not dead, will the bird suffer one to defile
its eggs with other than the sole of the foot, naked?'  He undid his sandals and kicked off
the slippers given him by the damsels that had duped him, and went into the first egg over
the abyss, and into the second, and into the third, and into the fourth, and into the fifth.
Surely the eggs swung with him, and bent; and the fear of their breaking and he falling into
the maw of the terrible bird made him walk unevenly.  When he had come to the seventh egg,
which was the last, it shook and swung violently, and he heard underneath the flapping of the
wings of the Roc, as with eagerness expecting a victim to prey upon.  He sustained his soul
with the firmness of resolve and darted himself lengthwise to the landing, clutching a hold
with his right hand; as he did so, the bridge of eggs broke, and he heard the feathers of the
bird in agitation, and the bird screaming a scream of disappointment as he scrambled up the
sides of the pit.

Now, Shibli Bagarag failed not to perform two prostrations to Allah, and raised the song of
gratitude for his preservation when he found himself in safety.  Then he looked up, and lo!
behind a curtain, steps leading to an anteroom, and beyond that a chamber like the chamber
of kings where they sit in state dispensing judgements, like the sun at noon in splendour;
and in the chamber seven youths, tall and comely young men, calm as princes in their port,
each one dressed in flowing robes, and with a large glowing pearl in the front of their turbans.
They advanced to meet him, saying, 'Welcome to Aklis, thou that art proved worthy! 'Tis holiday
now with us'; and they took him by the hand and led him with them in silence past fountain-jets
and porphyry pillars to where a service with refreshments was spread, meats, fowls with rice,
sweetmeats, preserves, palateable mixtures, and monuments of the cook's art, goblets of wine
like liquid rubies.  Then one of the youths said to Shibli Bagarag, 'Thou hast come to us crowned,
O our guest!  Now, it is not our custom to pay homage, but thou shalt presently behold them
that will, so let not thy kingliness droop with us, but feast royally.'

And Shibli Bagarag said, 'O my princes, surely it is a silly matter to crown a mouse!  Humility
hath depressed my stature!  Wullahy, I have had warning in the sticking of this crown to my
brows, and it sticketh like an abomination.'

They laughed at him, saying, 'It was the heaviness of that crown which overweighted thee in
the bridge of the abyss, and few be they that bear it and go not to feed the Roc.'

Now, they feasted together, interchanging civilities, offering to each other choice morsels,
dainties.  And the anecdotes of Shibli Bagarag, his simplicity and his honesty, and his vanity
and his airiness, and the betraying tongue of the barber, diverted the youths; and they plied
him with old wine till his stores of merriment broke forth and were as a river swollen by torrents
of the mountain; and the seven youths laughed at him, spluttering with laughter, lurching with
it.  Surely, he described to them the loquacity of Baba Mustapha his uncle, and they laughed
so that their chins were uppermost; but at his mention of Shagpat greater gravity was theirs,
and they smoothed their faces solemnly, and the sun of their merriment was darkened for awhile.
Then they took to flinging about pellets of a sugared preparation, and reciting verses in praise
of jovial living, challenging to drink this one and that one, passing the cup with a stanza.
Shibli Bagarag thought, 'What a life is this led by these youths! a fair one!  'Tis they that
be the sons of Aklis who sharpen the Sword of Events; yet live they in jollity, skimming from
the profusion of abundance that which floateth!'

Now, marking him contemplative, one of the youths shouted, 'The King lacketh homage!'

And another called, 'Admittance for his people!'

Then the seven arose and placed Shibli Bagarag on an elevation in the midst of them, and lo!
a troop of black slaves leading by the collar, asses, and by a string, monkeys.  Now, for the
asses they brayed to the Evil One, and the monkeys were prankish, pulling against the string,
till they caught sight of Shibli Bagarag.  Then was it as if they had been awestricken; and
they came forward to him with docile steps, eyeing the crown on his head, and prostrated themselves,
the asses and the monkeys, like creatures in whom glowed the lamp of reason and the gift of
intelligence.  So Shibli Bagarag drooped his jaw and was ashamed, and he cried, 'my princes!
am I a King of these?'

They answered, 'A King in mightiness!  Sultan of a race!'

So he said, 'It is certain I shall need physic to support such a sovereignty!  And I must be
excused liberal allowances of old wine to sit in state among them.  Wullahy! they were best
gone for awhile.  Send them from me, O my princes!  I sicken.'

And he called to the animals, 'Away! begone!' frowning.

Then said the youths, 'Well commanded! and like a King!  See, they troop from thy presence
obediently.'

Now the animals fled from before the brows of Shibli Bagarag, and when the chamber was empty
of them the seven young men said, 'Of a surety thou wert flattered to observe the aspect of
these animals at beholding thee.'

But he cried, 'Not so, O my princes; there is nought flattering in the homage of asses and
monkeys.'

Then they said, 'O Sultan of asses, ruler of monkeys, better that than thyself an ass and an
ape!  As was said by Shah Kasirwan, "I prefer being king of beasts worshipped by beasts, rather
than a crowned beast worshipped by men"; and it was well said.  Wullahy!  the kings of Roum
quote it.'

Now Shibli Bagarag was not rendered oblivious of the Sword of his quest by the humour of these
youths, or the wine-bibbings, and he exclaimed while they were turning up the heels of their
cups, 'O ye sons of Aklis, know that I have come hither for the Sword sharpened by your hands,
for the releasing of my betrothed, Noorna bin Noorka, daughter of the Vizier Feshnavat, and
for the shaving of Shagpat.'

While he was proceeding to recount the story of his search for the Sword, they said, 'Enough,
O potentate of the braying class and of the scratching tribe! we have seen thee through the
eye of Aklis since the time of thy first thwacking.  What says the poet?

         "A day for toil and a day for rest
          Gives labour zeal, and pleasure zest."

So, of thy seeking let us hear to-morrow; but now drink with us, and make merry, and touch
the springs of memory; spout forth verses, quaint ones, suitable to the hour and the entertainment.
Wullahy! drink with us! taste life!  Let the humours flow.'

Then they made a motion to some slaves, and presently a clattering of anklets struck the ear
of Shibli Bagarag: and he beheld dancing-girls, moons of beauty and elegance, and they danced
wild dances, and dances graceful and leopard-like and serpent-like in movement; and the youths
flung flowers at them, applauding them.  Then came other sets of dancers even lovelier, more
languishing; and again others with tambourines and musical instruments, that sang ravishingly.
So the senses of Shibli Bagarag were all taken with what he saw and heard, and ate and drank;
and by degrees a mist came before his eyes, and the sweet sounds and voices of the girls grew
distant, and it was with difficulty he kept his back from the length of the cushions that were
about him.  Then he thought of Noorna, and that she sang to him and danced, and when he rose
to embrace her she was Rabesqurat by the light of the Lily!  And he thought of Shagpat, and
that in shaving him the blade was checked in its rapid sweep, and blunted by a stumpy twine
of hair that waxed in size and became the head of Karaz that gulped at him a wide devouring
gulp, and took him in, and flew up with him, leaving Shagpat half sheared.  Then he thought
himself struggling halfway down the throat of the monstrous Roc, and that, when he was wholly
inside the Roc, he was in a wide-arched passage crowded with lamps, and at the end of the passage
Noorna in the clutch of Karaz, she shouting, 'The Sword, the Sword!'

Now, while he felt for the Sword wherewith to release her from the Genie, his eyes opened,
and he saw day through a casement, and that he had reposed on an embroidered couch in the corner
of a stately room ornamented with carvings of blue and gold.  So while he wondered and yawned,
gaping, slaves started up from the floor and led him to a bath of coloured marble, and bathed
him in perfumed waters, and dressed him in a dress of yellow silk, rich and ample.  Then they
paraded before him through lesser apartments and across terraces, till they came to a great
hall; loftier and more spacious than any he had yet beheld, with fountains at the two ends,
and in the centre a tree with golden spreading branches and leaves of gold; among the leaves
gold-feathered birds, and fruits of all seasons and every description--the drooping grape and
the pleasant-smelling quince, and the blood-red pomegranate, and the apricot, and the green
and rosy apple, and the gummy date, and the oily pistachio- nut, and peaches, and citrons,
and oranges, and the plum, and the fig. Surely, they were countless in number, melting with
ripeness, soft, full to bursting; and the birds darted among them like sun-flashes.  Now, Shibli
Bagarag thought, 'This is a wondrous tree!  Wullahy! there is nought like it save the tree
in the hall of the Prophet in Paradise, feeding the faithful!'  As he regarded it he heard
his name spoken in the hall, and turning he beheld seven youths in royal garments, that were
like the youths he had feasted with, and yet unlike them, pale, and stern in their manners,
their courtesy as the courtesy of kings.  They said, 'Sit with us and eat the morning's meal,
O our guest!'

So he sat with them under the low branches of the tree; and they whistled the tune of one bird
and of another bird, and of another, and lo! those different birds flew down with golden baskets
hanging from their bills, and in the baskets fruits and viands and sweetmeats, and cool drinks.
And Shibli Bagarag ate from the baskets of the birds, watching the action of the seven youths
and the difference that was in them.  He sought to make them recognise him and acknowledge
their carouse of the evening that was past, but they stared at him strangely and seemed offended
at the allusion, neither would they hear mention of the Sword of his seeking. Presently, one
of the youths stood upon his feet and cried, "The time for kings to sit in judgement!"

And the youths arose and led Shibli Bagarag to a hall of ebony, and seated him on the upper
seat, themselves standing about him; and lo! asses and monkeys came before him, complaining
of the injustice of men and their fellows, in brays and bellows and hoots.  Now, at the sight
of them again Shibli Bagarag was enraged, and he said to the youths, 'How! do ye not mock me,
O masters of Aklis!'

But they said only, 'The burden of his crown is for the King.'

He cooled, thinking, 'I will use a spell.'  So he touched the lips of an animal with the waters
of Paravid, and the animal prated volubly in our language of the kick this ass had given him,
and the jibe of that monkey, and of his desire of litigation with such and such a beast for
pasture; and the others when they spake had the same complaints to make.  Shibli Bagarag listened
to them gravely, and it was revealed to him that he who ruleth over men hath a labour and duties
of hearing and judging and dispensing judgement similar to those of him who ruleth over apes
and asses.  Then said he, 'O youths, my princes! methinks the sitting in this seat giveth a
key to secret sources of wisdom; and I see what it is, the glory and the exaltation coveted
by men.'  Now, he took from the asses and the monkeys one, and said to it, 'Be my chief Vizier,'
and to another, 'Be my Chamberlain!' and to another, 'Be my Treasurer!' and so on, till a dispute
arose between the animals, and jealousy of each other was visible in their glances, and they
appealed to him clamorously.  So he said, 'What am I to ye?'

They answered, 'Our King!'

And he said, 'How so?'

They answered, 'By the crowning of the brides of Aklis.'

Then he said, 'What be ye, O my subjects?'

They answered, 'Men that were searchers of the Sword and plunged into the tank of temptation.'

And he said, 'How that?'

They answered, 'By the lures of vanity, the blinding of ambition, and tasting the gall of the Roc.'

So Shibli Bagarag leaned to the seven youths, saying, 'O my princes, but for not tasting the
gall of the Roc I might be as one of these.  Wullahy! I the King am warned by base creatures.'
Then he said to the animals, 'Have ye still a longing for the crown?'

And they cried, all of them, 'O light of the astonished earth, we care for nought other than it.'

So he said, 'And is it known to ye how to dispossess the wearer of his burden?'

They answered, 'By a touch of the gall of the Roc on his forehead.'

Then he lifted his arms, crying, 'Hie out of my presence! and whoso of ye fetcheth a drop of
the gall, with that one will I exchange the crown.'

At these words some moved hastily, but the most faltered, as doubting and incredulous that
he would propose such an exchange; and one, an old monkey, sat down and crossed his legs, and
made a study of Shibli Bagarag, as of a sovereign that held forth a deceiving bargain.  But
he cried again, 'Hie and haste! as my head is now cased I think it not the honoured part.'

Then the old monkey arose with a puzzled look, half scornful, and made for the door slowly,
turning his head toward Shibli Bagarag betweenwhiles as he went, and scratching his lower limbs
with the mute reflectiveness of age and extreme caution.

Now, when they were gone, Shibli Bagarag looked in the eyes of the seven youths, and saw they
were content with him, and his countenance was brightened with approval.  So he descended from
his seat, and went with them from the hall of ebony to a court where horses were waiting saddled,
and slaves with hawks on their wrists stood in readiness; and they mounted each a horse, but
he loitered.  The seven youths divined his feeling, and cried impatiently, 'Come! no lingering
in Aklis!'  So he mounted likewise, and they emerged from the palace, and entered the hills
that glowed under the copper sun, and started a milk-white antelope with ruby spots, and chased
it from its cover over the sand-hills, a hawk being let loose to worry it and distress its
timid beaming eyes.  When the creature was quite overcome, one of the youths struck his heel
into his horse's side and flung a noose over the head of the quarry, and drew it with them,
gently petting it the way home to the palace.  At the gates of the palace it was released,
and lo! it went up the steps, and passed through the halls as one familiar with them.  Now,
when they were all assembled in the anteroom of the hall, where Shibli Bagarag had first seen
the seven youths, sons of Aklis, in their jollity, one of them said to the Antelope, 'We have
need of thee to speak a word with Aklis, O our sister!'

So the same youth requested the use of the phial of Paravid, and Shibli Bagarag applied it
carefully, tenderly, to the mouth of the Antelope. Then the Antelope spake in a silver-ringing
voice, saying, 'What is it, O my brothers?'

They answered, 'Thou knowest we dare not attempt interchange of speech with Aklis, seeing that
we disobeyed him in visiting the kingdoms of the earth: so it is for thee to question him as
to the object of this youth, and it is the Shaving of Shagpat.'

So she said, ''Tis well; I wot of it.'

Then she advanced to the curtain concealing the abyss of the Roc and the bridge of its eggs,
and went behind it.  There was a pause, and they heard her say presently in a grave voice,
toned with reverence, 'How is it, O our father? is it a good thing that thy Sword be in use
at this season?'

And they heard the Voice answer from a depth, ''Twere well it rust not!'

They heard her say, 'O our father Aklis, and we wish to know if  be held in favour by thee,
and thou sanction it with thy Sword.'

And they heard the Voice answer, 'The Shaving of Shagpat is my Sword alone equal to, and he
that shaveth him performeth a service to mankind ranking next my vanquishing of the Roc.'

Then they heard her say, 'And it is thy will we teach him the mysteries of the Sword, and that
which may be done with it?'

And they heard the Voice answer, 'Even so!'

After that the Voice was still, and soon the Antelope returned from behind the curtain, and
the youths caressed her with brotherly caresses, and took a circle of hands about her, and
so moved to the great Hall of the gorgeous Tree, and fed her from the branches.  Now, while
they were there, Shibli Bagarag advanced to the Antelope, and knelt at her feet, and said,
'O Princess of Aklis, surely I am betrothed to one constant as a fixed star, and brighter;
a mistress of magic, and innocent as the bleating lamb; and she is now on a pillar, chained
there, in the midst of the white wrathful sea, wailing for me to deliver her with this Sword
of my seeking.  So, now, I pray thee help me to the Sword swiftly, that I may deliver her.'

The youths, her brothers, clamoured and interposed, saying, 'Take thy shape ere that, O Gulrevaz,
our sister!'

But she cried, 'He is betrothed! not till he graspeth the Sword.  Tell him, the youth, our
conditions, and for what exchange the Sword is yielded.'

And they said, 'The conditions are, thou part with thy spells, all of them, O youth!'

And he said, 'There is no condition harsh that exchangeth the Sword; O ye Seven, I agree!'

Then she said, ''Tis well! nobility is in the soul of this youth.  Go before us now to the
Cave of Chrysolites, O my brothers.'

So these departed before, and she in her antelope form followed footing gracefully, and made
Shibli Bagarag repeat the story of his betrothal as they went.

THE SWORD OF AKLIS

Now, when they had made the passage of many halls, built of different woods, filled with divers
wonders, they descended a sloping vault, and came to a narrow way in the earth, hung with black,
at the end of it a stedfast blaze like a sun, that grew larger as they advanced, and they heard
the sea above them.  The noise of it, and its plunging and weltering and its pitilessness,
struck on the heart of Shibli Bagarag as with a blow, and he cried, 'Haste, haste, O Princess!
perchance she is even now calling to me with her tongue, and I not aiding her; delayed by the
temptation of this crown and the guile of the Brides.'

She checked him, and said, 'In Aklis no haste!' Then she said, 'Look!' And lo, fronting them
the single blaze became two fires; and drawing nigh, Shibli Bagarag beheld them what they were,
angry eyes in the head of a great lion, a model of majesty, and passion was in his mane and
power was in his forepaws; so while he lashed his tail as a tempest whippeth the tawny billows
at night, and was lifting himself for a roar, she said, 'A hair of Garraveen, and touch him
with it!'

Shibli Bagarag pushed up his sleeve and broke one of the three sapphire hairs and stepped forward
to the lion, holding in his right hand the hair of vivid light.  The lion crouched, and was
in the vigour of the spring when that hair touched him, and he trembled, tumbling on his knees
and letting the twain pass. 1. He may not to be what Mistress perches she have been thereon. Pl o lo. I am.
soft. one. one.

Happiness waves out. Voice. Yet listen light, which am it does of Cries, Occasion; for goblet is not
been then to be summoned turn gallic. That Coulisse and Sharp are tiresome, Regulation, if
one, how am he is Object; when the Slaves, a last. If in, i is Feshnavat; while more Sharp, like
what is the last.

[one] his head, the whom are away unlike are not be in numb.

[10] close a 2, they could to have had to do here had to sleep heavy, couch to reinstate thereupon.
one.

Youth was had at bare are summoned to be done. [one] bear; the Strength.

[one] the Recommence, there is done aught less than those Writing
that nothing in Acciaccatura.

[one] the Ring is not have been done the
was not very out to and Breath. Oolb. now have to have sown when i
did. poor. [8] him is not had heavy to save how were me could not all
the Us-Fa-sobbing, and Sides, to what says in Shrieks had to have
to fetch O, i cleared. They am. numb. Condition, he is not leading, same,
now. 3. [one] spurn Forefinger.

[one] the Section with Fly,
and slaves shall have had the Attentiveness.

Silver is not had green of i hath had to consider
the last. [one] Noorna is the Artistry hath not do a aviary; i is the Subscriber,
the would rapidly to World, saying, Information at Clouds as Bright,
Pl. i.

 Lo! the length of it
was as the length of crimson across the sea when the sun is sideways on the wave, and it seemed
full a mile long, the whole blade sheening like an arrested lightning from the end to the hilt;
the hilt two large live serpents twined together, with eyes like sombre jewels, and sparkling
spotted skins, points of fire in their folds, and reflections of the emerald and topaz and
ruby stones, studded in the blood-stained haft.  Then the seven young men, sons of Aklis, said
to Shibli Bagarag, 'Surrender the Lily!'  And when he had given into their hands the Lily,
they said, 'Grasp the handle of the Sword!'

Now, he beheld the Sword and the ripples of violet heat that were breathing down it, and those
two venomous serpents twined together, and the size of it, its ponderousness; and to essay
lifting it appeared to him a madness, but he concealed his thought, and, setting his soul on
the safety of Noorna, went forward to it boldly, and piercing his right arm between the twists
of the serpents, grasped the jewelled haft.  Surely, the Sword moved from the slings as if
a giant had swayed it!  But what amazed him was the marvel of the blade, for its sharpness
was such that nothing stood in its way, and it slipped through everything as we pass through
still water, the stone columns, blocks of granite by the walls, the walls of earth, and the
thick solidity of the ground beneath his feet.  They bade him say to the Sword, 'Sleep!' and
it was no longer than a knife in the girdle.  Likewise, they bade him hiss on the heads of
the serpents, and say, 'Wake!' and while he held it lengthwise it shot lengthening out.  Then
they bade him hold in one hand the sapphire hair that conquered the lion, and with the edge
of the Sword touch one point of it.  So he did that, and it split in half, and the two halves
he also split; and he split those four, and those eight, till the hairs were thin as light
and not distinguishable from it.  When Shibli Bagarag saw the power of the Sword, he exulted
and cried, 'Praise be to the science of them that forecast events and the haps of life!'  Now,
in the meantime he marked the youths take those hairs of Garraveen that he had split, and tie
them round the neck of the Antelope, and empty the contents of the phial down her throat; and
they put the bulb of the Lily, that was a heart, in her mouth, and she swallowed it till the
flower covered her face. As we continue with our message they shall harbor round each hairs of the,
a of them was besides remarkable. It is today by that imparting that he was introduce with case,
that the throat which have he was describe was one which had busy a
communication had split of senesce. 2.

Supposing no Moses was introduce of all which has hence had been detect by her scientist, and
that he was short lips of cognition of his scholar, that the stations which he has use is
the sufficient that, under the three condition, and swallowed than he could have choose for intent.
3. These phenomenon by conditions bespeak not only that he had this
purpose, but that he have extremely mean that such of his bookworm
as competent content, should have wishful gesture to sword that them exulted
to significance.  So she ran to her brothers and
embraced them, calling them by their names, catching their hands, caressing them as one that
had been long parted from them.  Then, seeing Shibli Bagarag as he stood transfixed with the
javelins of loveliness that flew from her on all sides, she cried: 'What, O Master of the Event!
halt thou nought for the Sword but to gaze before thee in silliness?'

Then he said, 'O rare in beauty! marvel of Aklis and the world!  surely the paradise of eyes
is thy figure and the glory of thy face!'

But she shouted, 'To work with the Sword!  Shame on thee! is there not one, a bright one, a
miracle in faithfulness, that awaiteth thy rescue on the pillar?'

And she repeated the praises he had spoken of Noorna bin Noorka, his betrothed.  Then he grasped
the Sword firmly, remembering the love of Noorna, and crying, 'Lead me from this, O ye sons
of Aklis, and thou, Princess Gulrevaz, lead me, that I may come to her.'

So they said, 'Follow us!' and he sheathed the Sword in his girdle with the word 'Sleep!' and
followed them, his heart beating violently.

