THE FATAL BOOTS.

by William Makepeace Thackeray

THE FATAL BOOTS:--

January.--The Birth of the Year

February.--Cutting Weather

March.--Showery

April.--Fooling

May.--Restoration Day

June.--Marrowbones and Cleavers

July.--Summary Proceedings

August.--Dogs have their Days

September.--Plucking a Goose

October.--Mars and Venus in Opposition

November.--A General Post Delivery

December.--"The Winter of Our Discontent"

THE FATAL BOOTS

JANUARY.--THE BIRTH OF THE YEAR.

Some poet has observed, that if any man would write down what has really happened to him in
this mortal life, he would be sure to make a good book, though he never had met with a single
adventure from his birth to his burial. How much more, then, must I, who HAVE had adventures,
most singular, pathetic, and unparalleled, be able to compile an instructive and entertaining
volume for the use of the public.

I don't mean to say that I have killed lions, or seen the wonders of travel in the deserts
of Arabia or Prussia; or that I have been a very fashionable character, living with dukes and
peeresses, and writing my recollections of them, as the way now is. I never left this my native
isle, nor spoke to a lord (except an Irish one, who had rooms in our house, and forgot to pay
three weeks' lodging and extras); but, as our immortal bard observes, I have in the course
of my existence been so eaten up by the slugs and harrows of outrageous fortune, and have been
the object of such continual and extraordinary ill-luck, that I believe it would melt the heart
of a milestone to read of it--that is, if a milestone had a heart of anything but stone.

Twelve of my adventures, suitable for meditation and perusal during the twelve months of the
year, have been arranged by me for this work. They contain a part of the history of a great,
and, confidently I may say, a GOOD man. I was not a spendthrift like other men. I never wronged
any man of a shilling, though I am as sharp a fellow at a bargain as any in Europe. I never
injured a fellow-creature; on the contrary, on several occasions, when injured myself, have
shown the most wonderful forbearance. I come of a tolerably good family; and yet, born to wealth--of
an inoffensive disposition, careful of the money that I had, and eager to get more,--I have
been going down hill ever since my journey of life began, and have been pursued by a complication
of misfortunes such as surely never happened to any man but the unhappy Bob Stubbs.

Bob Stubbs is my name; and I haven't got a shilling: I have borne the commission of lieutenant
in the service of King George, and am NOW--but never mind what I am now, for the public will
know in a few pages more. My father was of the Suffolk Stubbses--a well-to-do gentleman of
Bungay. My grandfather had been a respected attorney in that town, and left my papa a pretty
little fortune. I was thus the inheritor of competence, and ought to be at this moment a gentleman.

My misfortunes may be said to have commenced about a year before my birth, when my papa, a
young fellow pretending to study the law in London, fell madly in love with Miss Smith, the
daughter of a tradesman, who did not give her a sixpence, and afterwards became bankrupt. My
papa married this Miss Smith, and carried her off to the country, where I was born, in an evil
hour for me.

Were I to attempt to describe my early years, you would laugh at me as an impostor; but the
following letter from mamma to a friend, after her marriage, will pretty well show you what
a poor foolish creature she was; and what a reckless extravagant fellow was my other unfortunate
parent:--

"TO MISS ELIZA KICKS, IN GRACECHURCH STREET, LONDON.

"OH, ELIZA! your Susan is the happiest girl under heaven! My Thomas is an angel! not a tall
grenadier-like looking fellow, such as I always vowed I would marry:--on the contrary, he is
what the world would call dumpy, and I hesitate not to confess, that his eyes have a cast in
them. But what then? when one of his eyes is fixed on me, and one on my babe, they are lighted
up with an affection which my pen cannot describe, and which, certainly, was never bestowed
upon any woman so strongly as upon your happy Susan Stubbs.

"When he comes home from shooting, or the farm, if you COULD see dear Thomas with me and our
dear little Bob! as I sit on one knee, and baby on the other, and as he dances us both about.
I often wish that we had Sir Joshua, or some great painter, to depict the group; for sure it
is the prettiest picture in the whole world, to see three such loving merry people.

"Dear baby is the most lovely little creature that CAN POSSIBLY BE,--the very IMAGE of papa;
he is cutting his teeth, and the delight of EVERYBODY. Nurse says that, when he is older he
will get rid of his squint, and his hair will get a GREAT DEAL less red. Doctor Bates is as
kind, and skilful, and attentive as we could desire. Think what a blessing to have had him!
Ever since poor baby's birth, it has never had a day of quiet; and he has been obliged to give
it from three to four doses every week;--how thankful ought we to be that the DEAR THING is
as well as it is! It got through the measles wonderfully; then it had a little rash; and then
a nasty hooping-cough; and then a fever, and continual pains in its poor little stomach, crying,
poor dear child, from morning till night.

"But dear Tom is an excellent nurse; and many and many a night has he had no sleep, dear man!
in consequence of the poor little baby. He walks up and down with it FOR HOURS, singing a kind
of song (dear fellow, he has no more voice than a tea-kettle), and bobbing his head backwards
and forwards, and looking, in his nightcap and dressing-gown, SO DROLL. Oh, Eliza! how you
would laugh to see him.

"We have one of the best nursemaids IN THE WORLD,--an Irishwoman, who is as fond of baby almost
as his mother (but that can NEVER BE). She takes it to walk in the park for hours together,
and I really don't know why Thomas dislikes her. He says she is tipsy, very often, and slovenly,
which I cannot conceive;--to be sure, the nurse is sadly dirty, and sometimes smells very strong
of gin.

"But what of that?--these little drawbacks only make home more pleasant. When one thinks how
many mothers have NO nursemaids: how many poor dear children have no doctors: ought we not
to be thankful for Mary Malowney, and that Dr. Bates's bill is forty-seven pounds? How ill
must dear baby have been, to require so much physic!

"But they are a sad expense, these dear babies, after all. Fancy, Eliza, how much this Mary
Malowney costs us. Ten shillings every week; a glass of brandy or gin at dinner; three pint-bottles
of Mr. Thrale's best porter every day,--making twenty-one in a week, and nine hundred and ninety
in the eleven months she has been with us. Then, for baby, there is Dr. Bates's bill of forty-five
guineas, two guineas for christening, twenty for a grand christening supper and ball (rich
uncle John mortally offended because he was made godfather, and had to give baby a silver cup:
he has struck Thomas out of his will: and old Mr. Firkin quite as much hurt because he was
NOT asked: he will not speak to me or Thomas in consequence) twenty guineas for flannels, laces,
little gowns, caps, napkins, and such baby's ware: and all this out of 300L. a year! But Thomas
expects to make A GREAT DEAL by his farm.

"We have got the most charming country-house YOU CAN IMAGINE: it is QUITE SHUT IN by trees,
and so retired that, though only thirty miles from London, the post comes to us but once a
week. The roads, it must be confessed, are execrable; it is winter now, and we are up to our
knees in mud and snow. But oh, Eliza! how happy we are: with Thomas (he has had a sad attack
of rheumatism, dear man!) and little Bobby, and our kind friend Dr. Bates, who comes so far
to see us, I leave you to fancy that we have a charming merry party, and do not care for all
the gayeties of Ranelagh.

"Adieu! dear baby is crying for his mamma. A thousand kisses from your affectionate

"SUSAN STUBBS."

There it is! Doctor's bills, gentleman-farming, twenty-one pints of porter a week. In this
way my unnatural parents were already robbing me of my property.

FEBRUARY.--CUTTING WEATHER.

I have called this chapter "cutting weather," partly in compliment to the month of February,
and partly in respect of my own misfortunes, which you are going to read about. For I have
often thought that January (which is mostly twelfth-cake and holiday time) is like the first
four or five years of a little boy's life; then comes dismal February, and the working-days
with it, when chaps begin to look out for themselves, after the Christmas and the New Year's
heyday and merrymaking are over, which our infancy may well be said to be. Well can I recollect
that bitter first of February, when I first launched out into the world and appeared at Doctor
Swishtail's academy.

I began at school that life of prudence and economy which I have carried on ever since. My
mother gave me eighteenpence on setting out (poor soul! I thought her heart would break as
she kissed me, and bade God bless me); and, besides, I had a small capital of my own which
I had amassed for a year previous. I'll tell you, what I used to do. Wherever I saw six halfpence
I took one. If it was asked for I said I had taken it and gave it back;--if it was not missed,
I said nothing about it, as why should I?--those who don't miss their money, don't lose their
money. So I had a little private fortune of three shillings, besides mother's eighteenpence.
At school they called me the copper-merchant, I had such lots of it.

Now, even at a preparatory school, a well-regulated boy may better himself: and I can tell
you I did. I never was in any quarrels: I never was very high in the class or very low: but
there was no chap so much respected:--and why? I'D ALWAYS MONEY. The other boys spent all theirs
in the first day or two, and they gave me plenty of cakes and barley-sugar then, I can tell
you. I'd no need to spend my own money, for they would insist upon treating me. Well, in a
week, when theirs was gone, and they had but their threepence a week to look to for the rest
of the half-year, what did I do? Why, I am proud to say that three-halfpence out of the threepence
a week of almost all the young gentlemen at Dr. Swishtail's, came into my pocket. Suppose,
for instance, Tom Hicks wanted a slice of gingerbread, who had the money? Little Bob Stubbs,
to be sure. "Hicks," I used to say, "I'LL buy you three halfp'orth of gingerbread, if you'll
give me threepence next Saturday." And he agreed; and next Saturday came, and he very often
could not pay me more than three-halfpence. Then there was the threepence I was to have THE
NEXT Saturday. I'll tell you what I did for a whole half-year:--I lent a chap, by the name
of Dick Bunting, three-halfpence the first Saturday for three-pence the next: he could not
pay me more than half when Saturday came, and I'm blest if I did not make him pay me three-halfpence
FOR THREE-AND-TWENTY WEEKS RUNNING, making two shillings and tenpence-halfpenny. But he was
a sad dishonorable fellow, Dick Bunting; for after I'd been so kind to him, and let him off
for three-and-twenty-weeks the money he owed me, holidays came, and threepence he owed me still.
Well, according to the common principles of practice, after six-weeks' holidays, he ought to
have paid me exactly sixteen shillings, which was my due. For the

     First week the 3d. would be 6d. | Fourth week .  .  .  .  .  4s.
     Second week  .  .  .  .  .  1s. | Fifth week  .  .  .  .  .  8s.
     Third week   .  .  .  .  .  2s. | Sixth week  .  .  .  .  . 16s.

Nothing could be more just; and yet--will it be believed? when Bunting came back he offered
me THREE-HALFPENCE! the mean, dishonest scoundrel.

However, I was even with him, I can tell you.--He spent all his money in a fortnight, and THEN
I screwed him down! I made him, besides giving me a penny for a penny, pay me a quarter of
his bread and butter at breakfast and a quarter of his cheese at supper; and before the half-year
was out, I got from him a silver fruit-knife, a box of compasses, and a very pretty silver-laced
waistcoat, in which I went home as proud as a king: and, what's more, I had no less than three
golden guineas in the pocket of it, besides fifteen shillings, the knife, and a brass bottle-screw,
which I got from another chap. It wasn't bad interest for twelve shillings--which was all the
money I'd had in the year--was it? Heigho! I've often wished that I could get such a chance
again in this wicked world; but men are more avaricious now than they used to be in those dear
early days.

Well, I went home in my new waistcoat as fine as a peacock; and when I gave the bottle-screw
to my father, begging him to take it as a token of my affection for him, my dear mother burst
into such a fit of tears as I never saw, and kissed and hugged me fit to smother me. "Bless
him, bless him," says she, "to think of his old father. And where did you purchase it, Bob?"--"Why,
mother," says I, "I purchased it out of my savings" (which was as true as the gospel).--When
I said this, mother looked round to father, smiling, although she had tears in her eyes, and
she took his hand, and with her other hand drew me to her. "Is he not a noble boy?" says she
to my father: "and only nine years old!"--"Faith," says my father, "he IS a good lad, Susan.
Thank thee, my boy: and here is a crown-piece in return for thy bottle-screw--it shall open
us a bottle of the very best too," says my father. And he kept his word. I always was fond
of good wine (though never, from a motive of proper self-denial, having any in my cellar);
and, by Jupiter! on this night I had my little skinful,--for there was no stinting,--so pleased
were my dear parents with the bottle-screw. The best of it was, it only cost me threepence
originally, which a chap could not pay me.

Seeing this game was such a good one, I became very generous towards my parents; and a capital
way it is to encourage liberality in children. I gave mamma a very neat brass thimble, and
she gave me a half-guinea piece. Then I gave her a very pretty needle-book, which I made myself
with an ace of spades from a new pack of cards we had, and I got Sally, our maid, to cover
it with a bit of pink satin her mistress had given her; and I made the leaves of the book,
which I vandyked very nicely, out of a piece of flannel I had had round my neck for a sore
throat. It smelt a little of hartshorn, but it was a beautiful needle-book; and mamma was so
delighted with it, that she went into town and bought me a gold-laced hat. Then I bought papa
a pretty china tobacco-stopper: but I am sorry to say of my dear father that he was not so
generous as my mamma or myself, for he only burst out laughing, and did not give me so much
as a half-crown piece, which was the least I expected from him. "I shan't give you anything,
Bob, this time," says he; "and I wish, my boy, you would not make any more such presents,--for,
really, they are too expensive." Expensive indeed! I hate meanness,--even in a father.

I must tell you about the silver-edged waistcoat which Bunting gave me. Mamma asked me about
it, and I told her the truth,--that it was a present from one of the boys for my kindness to
him. Well, what does she do but writes back to Dr. Swishtail, when I went to school, thanking
him for his attention to her dear son, and sending a shilling to the good and grateful little
boy who had given me the waistcoat!

"What waistcoat is it," says the Doctor to me, "and who gave it to you?"

"Bunting gave it me, sir," says I.

"Call Bunting!" and up the little ungrateful chap came. Would you believe it, he burst into
tears,--told that the waistcoat had been given him by his mother, and that he had been forced
to give it for a debt to Copper-Merchant, as the nasty little blackguard called me? He then
said how, for three-halfpence, he had been compelled to pay me three shillings (the sneak!
as if he had been OBLIGED to borrow the three-halfpence!)--how all the other boys had been
swindled (swindled!) by me in like manner,--and how, with only twelve shillings, I had managed
to scrape together four guineas. . . . .

My courage almost fails me as I describe the shameful scene that followed. The boys were called
in, my own little account-book was dragged out of my cupboard, to prove how much I had received
from each, and every farthing of my money was paid back to them. The tyrant took the thirty
shillings that my dear parents had given me, and said he should put them into the poor-box
at church; and, after having made a long discourse to the boys about meanness and usury, he
said, "Take off your coat, Mr. Stubbs, and restore Bunting his waistcoat." I did, and stood
without coat and waistcoat in the midst of the nasty grinning boys. I was going to put on my
coat,--

"Stop!" says he. "TAKE DOWN HIS BREECHES!"

Ruthless, brutal villain! Sam Hopkins, the biggest boy, took them down--horsed me--and I WAS
FLOGGED, SIR: yes, flogged! O revenge! I, Robert Stubbs, who had done nothing but what was
right, was brutally flogged at ten years of age!--Though February was the shortest month, I
remembered it long.

MARCH.--SHOWERY.

When my mamma heard of the treatment of her darling she was for bringing an action against
the schoolmaster, or else for tearing his eyes out (when, dear soul! she would not have torn
the eyes out of a flea, had it been her own injury), and, at the very least, for having me
removed from the school where I had been so shamefully treated. But papa was stern for once,
and vowed that I had been served quite right, declared that I should not be removed from school,
and sent old Swishtail a brace of pheasants for what he called his kindness to me. Of these
the old gentleman invited me to partake, and made a very queer speech at dinner, as he was
cutting them up, about the excellence of my parents, and his own determination to be KINDER
STILL to me, if ever I ventured on such practices again. So I was obliged to give up my old
trade of lending: for the Doctor declared that any boy who borrowed should be flogged, and
any one who PAID should be flogged twice as much. There was no standing against such a prohibition
as this, and my little commerce was ruined.

I was not very high in the school: not having been able to get farther than that dreadful Propria
quae maribus in the Latin grammar, of which, though I have it by heart even now, I never could
understand a syllable: but, on account of my size, my age, and the prayers of my mother, was
allowed to have the privilege of the bigger boys, and on holidays to walk about in the town.
Great dandies we were, too, when we thus went out. I recollect my costume very well: a thunder-and-lightning
coat, a white waistcoat embroidered neatly at the pockets, a lace frill, a pair of knee-breeches,
and elegant white cotton or silk stockings. This did very well, but still I was dissatisfied:
I wanted A PAIR OF BOOTS. Three boys in the school had boots--I was mad to have them too.

