LIFE ON THE MISSISSIPPI

                        BY MARK TWAIN

                           Part 7.

Chapter 31  A Thumb-print and What Came of It

WE were approaching Napoleon, Arkansas.  So I began to think about my errand there.  Time,
noonday; and bright and sunny. This was bad--not best, anyway; for mine was not (preferably)
a noonday kind of errand. The more I thought, the more that fact pushed itself upon me--now
in one form, now in another.  Finally, it took the form of a distinct question: is it good
common sense to do the errand in daytime, when, by a little sacrifice of comfort and inclination,
you can have night for it, and no inquisitive eyes around.  This settled it. Plain question
and plain answer make the shortest road out of most perplexities.

I got my friends into my stateroom, and said I was sorry to create annoyance and disappointment,
but that upon reflection it really seemed best that we put our luggage ashore and stop over
at Napoleon. Their disapproval was prompt and loud; their language mutinous. Their main argument
was one which has always been the first to come to the surface, in such cases, since the beginning
of time: 'But you decided and AGREED to stick to this boat, etc.; as if, having determined
to do an unwise thing, one is thereby bound to go ahead and make TWO unwise things of it, by
carrying out that determination.

I tried various mollifying tactics upon them, with reasonably good success: under which encouragement,
I increased my efforts; and, to show them that I had not created this annoying errand, and
was in no way to blame for it, I presently drifted into its history--substantially as follows:

Toward the end of last year, I spent a few months in Munich, Bavaria. In November I was living
in Fraulein Dahlweiner's PENSION, 1a, Karlstrasse; but my working quarters were a mile from
there, in the house of a widow who supported herself by taking lodgers. She and her two young
children used to drop in every morning and talk German to me--by request.  One day, during
a ramble about the city, I visited one of the two establishments where the Government keeps
and watches corpses until the doctors decide that they are permanently dead, and not in a trance
state.  It was a grisly place, that spacious room. There were thirty-six corpses of adults
in sight, stretched on their backs on slightly slanted boards, in three long rows--all of them
with wax-white, rigid faces, and all of them wrapped in white shrouds. Along the sides of the
room were deep alcoves, like bay windows; and in each of these lay several marble- visaged
babes, utterly hidden and buried under banks of fresh flowers, all but their faces and crossed
hands. Around a finger of each of these fifty still forms, both great and small, was a ring;
and from the ring a wire led to the ceiling, and thence to a bell in a watch-room yonder, where,
day and night, a watchman sits always alert and ready to spring to the aid of any of that pallid
company who, waking out of death, shall make a movement--for any, even the slightest, movement
will twitch the wire and ring that fearful bell.  I imagined myself a death-sentinel drowsing
there alone, far in the dragging watches of some wailing, gusty night, and having in a twinkling
all my body stricken to quivering jelly by the sudden clamor of that awful summons!  So I inquired
about this thing; asked what resulted usually? if the watchman died, and the restored corpse
came and did what it could to make his last moments easy. But I was rebuked for trying to feed
an idle and frivolous curiosity in so solemn and so mournful a place; and went my way with
a humbled crest.

Next morning I was telling the widow my adventure, when she exclaimed--

'Come with me!  I have a lodger who shall tell you all you want to know. He has been a night-watchman
there.'

He was a living man, but he did not look it.  He was abed, and had his head propped high on
pillows; his face was wasted and colorless, his deep-sunken eyes were shut; his hand, lying
on his breast, was talon- like, it was so bony and long-fingered. The widow began her introduction
of me.  The man's eyes opened slowly, and glittered wickedly out from the twilight of their
caverns; he frowned a black frown; he lifted his lean hand and waved us peremptorily away.
But the widow kept straight on, till she had got out the fact that I was a stranger and an
American. The man's face changed at once; brightened, became even eager--and the next moment
he and I were alone together.

I opened up in cast-iron German; he responded in quite flexible English; thereafter we gave
the German language a permanent rest.

This consumptive and I became good friends.  I visited him every day, and we talked about everything.
At least, about everything but wives and children. Let anybody's wife or anybody's child be
mentioned, and three things always followed:  the most gracious and loving and tender light
glimmered in the man's eyes for a moment; faded out the next, and in its place came that deadly
look which had flamed there the first time I ever saw his lids unclose; thirdly, he ceased
from speech, there and then for that day; lay silent, abstracted, and absorbed; apparently
heard nothing that I said; took no notice of my good-byes, and plainly did not know, by either
sight or hearing, when I left the room.

When I had been this Karl Ritter's daily and sole intimate during two months, he one day said,
abruptly--

'I will tell you my story.'

A DYING MAN S CONFESSION

Then he went on as follows:--

I have never given up, until now.  But now I have given up. I am going to die.  I made up my
mind last night that it must be, and very soon, too.  You say you are going to revisit your
river, by-and-bye, when you find opportunity. Very well; that, together with a certain strange
experience which fell to my lot last night, determines me to tell you my history--for you will
see Napoleon, Arkansas; and for my sake you will stop there, and do a certain thing for me--a
thing which you will willingly undertake after you shall have heard my narrative.

Let us shorten the story wherever we can, for it will need it, being long. You already know
how I came to go to America, and how I came to settle in that lonely region in the South. 
But you do not know that I had a wife. My wife was young, beautiful, loving, and oh, so divinely
good and blameless and gentle!  And our little girl was her mother in miniature. It was the
happiest of happy households.

One night--it was toward the close of the war--I woke up out of a sodden lethargy, and found
myself bound and gagged, and the air tainted with chloroform!  I saw two men in the room, and
one was saying to the other, in a hoarse whisper, 'I told her I would, if she made a noise,
and as for the child--'

The other man interrupted in a low, half-crying voice--

'You said we'd only gag them and rob them, not hurt them; or I wouldn't have come.'

'Shut up your whining; had to change the plan when they waked up; you done all you could to
protect them, now let that satisfy you; come, help rummage.'

Both men were masked, and wore coarse, ragged 'nigger' clothes; they had a bull's-eye lantern,
and by its light I noticed that the gentler robber had no thumb on his right hand. They rummaged
around my poor cabin for a moment; the head bandit then said, in his stage whisper--

'It's a waste of time--he shall tell where it's hid. Undo his gag, and revive him up.'

The other said--

'All right--provided no clubbing.'

'No clubbing it is, then--provided he keeps still.'

