THE ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER
                                BY
                            MARK TWAIN
                     (Samuel Langhorne Clemens)

                              Part 4

CHAPTER XIII

TOM'S mind was made up now. He was gloomy and desperate. He was a forsaken, friendless boy,
he said; nobody loved him; when they found out what they had driven him to, perhaps they would
be sorry; he had tried to do right and get along, but they would not let him; since nothing
would do them but to be rid of him, let it be so; and let them blame HIM for the consequences--why
shouldn't they? What right had the friendless to complain? Yes, they had forced him to it at
last: he would lead a life of crime. There was no choice.

By this time he was far down Meadow Lane, and the bell for school to "take up" tinkled faintly
upon his ear. He sobbed, now, to think he should never, never hear that old familiar sound
any more--it was very hard, but it was forced on him; since he was driven out into the cold
world, he must submit--but he forgave them. Then the sobs came thick and fast.

Just at this point he met his soul's sworn comrade, Joe Harper --hard-eyed, and with evidently
a great and dismal purpose in his heart. Plainly here were "two souls with but a single thought."
Tom, wiping his eyes with his sleeve, began to blubber out something about a resolution to
escape from hard usage and lack of sympathy at home by roaming abroad into the great world
never to return; and ended by hoping that Joe would not forget him.

But it transpired that this was a request which Joe had just been going to make of Tom, and
had come to hunt him up for that purpose. His mother had whipped him for drinking some cream
which he had never tasted and knew nothing about; it was plain that she was tired of him and
wished him to go; if she felt that way, there was nothing for him to do but succumb; he hoped
she would be happy, and never regret having driven her poor boy out into the unfeeling world
to suffer and die.

As the two boys walked sorrowing along, they made a new compact to stand by each other and
be brothers and never separate till death relieved them of their troubles. Then they began
to lay their plans. Joe was for being a hermit, and living on crusts in a remote cave, and
dying, some time, of cold and want and grief; but after listening to Tom, he conceded that
there were some conspicuous advantages about a life of crime, and so he consented to be a pirate.

Three miles below St. Petersburg, at a point where the Mississippi River was a trifle over
a mile wide, there was a long, narrow, wooded island, with a shallow bar at the head of it,
and this offered well as a rendezvous. It was not inhabited; it lay far over toward the further
shore, abreast a dense and almost wholly unpeopled forest. So Jackson's Island was chosen.
Who were to be the subjects of their piracies was a matter that did not occur to them. Then
they hunted up Huckleberry Finn, and he joined them promptly, for all careers were one to him;
he was indifferent. They presently separated to meet at a lonely spot on the river-bank two
miles above the village at the favorite hour--which was midnight. There was a small log raft
there which they meant to capture. Each would bring hooks and lines, and such provision as
he could steal in the most dark and mysterious way--as became outlaws. And before the afternoon
was done, they had all managed to enjoy the sweet glory of spreading the fact that pretty soon
the town would "hear something." All who got this vague hint were cautioned to "be mum and wait."

About midnight Tom arrived with a boiled ham and a few trifles, and stopped in a dense undergrowth
on a small bluff overlooking the meeting-place. It was starlight, and very still. The mighty
river lay like an ocean at rest. Tom listened a moment, but no sound disturbed the quiet. Then
he gave a low, distinct whistle. It was answered from under the bluff. Tom whistled twice more;
these signals were answered in the same way. Then a guarded voice said:

"Who goes there?"

"Tom Sawyer, the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main. Name your names."

"Huck Finn the Red-Handed, and Joe Harper the Terror of the Seas." Tom had furnished these
titles, from his favorite literature.

"'Tis well. Give the countersign."

Two hoarse whispers delivered the same awful word simultaneously to the brooding night:

"BLOOD!"

Then Tom tumbled his ham over the bluff and let himself down after it, tearing both skin and
clothes to some extent in the effort. There was an easy, comfortable path along the shore under
the bluff, but it lacked the advantages of difficulty and danger so valued by a pirate.

The Terror of the Seas had brought a side of bacon, and had about worn himself out with getting
it there. Finn the Red-Handed had stolen a skillet and a quantity of half-cured leaf tobacco,
and had also brought a few corn-cobs to make pipes with. But none of the pirates smoked or
"chewed" but himself. The Black Avenger of the Spanish Main said it would never do to start
without some fire. That was a wise thought; matches were hardly known there in that day. They
saw a fire smouldering upon a great raft a hundred yards above, and they went stealthily thither
and helped themselves to a chunk. They made an imposing adventure of it, saying, "Hist!" every
now and then, and suddenly halting with finger on lip; moving with hands on imaginary dagger-hilts;
and giving orders in dismal whispers that if "the foe" stirred, to "let him have it to the
hilt," because "dead men tell no tales." They knew well enough that the raftsmen were all down
at the village laying in stores or having a spree, but still that was no excuse for their conducting
this thing in an unpiratical way.

They shoved off, presently, Tom in command, Huck at the after oar and Joe at the forward. Tom
stood amidships, gloomy-browed, and with folded arms, and gave his orders in a low, stern whisper:

"Luff, and bring her to the wind!"

"Aye-aye, sir!"

"Steady, steady-y-y-y!"

"Steady it is, sir!"

"Let her go off a point!"

"Point it is, sir!"

As the boys steadily and monotonously drove the raft toward mid-stream it was no doubt understood
that these orders were given only for "style," and were not intended to mean anything in particular.

"What sail's she carrying?"

"Courses, tops'ls, and flying-jib, sir."

"Send the r'yals up! Lay out aloft, there, half a dozen of ye --foretopmaststuns'l! Lively, now!"

"Aye-aye, sir!"

"Shake out that maintogalans'l! Sheets and braces! NOW my hearties!"

"Aye-aye, sir!"

"Hellum-a-lee--hard a port! Stand by to meet her when she comes! Port, port! NOW, men! With
a will! Stead-y-y-y!"

"Steady it is, sir!"

The raft drew beyond the middle of the river; the boys pointed her head right, and then lay
on their oars. The river was not high, so there was not more than a two or three mile current.
Hardly a word was said during the next three-quarters of an hour. Now the raft was passing
before the distant town. Two or three glimmering lights showed where it lay, peacefully sleeping,
beyond the vague vast sweep of star-gemmed water, unconscious of the tremendous event that
was happening. The Black Avenger stood still with folded arms, "looking his last" upon the
scene of his former joys and his later sufferings, and wishing "she" could see him now, abroad
on the wild sea, facing peril and death with dauntless heart, going to his doom with a grim
smile on his lips. It was but a small strain on his imagination to remove Jackson's Island
beyond eyeshot of the village, and so he "looked his last" with a broken and satisfied heart.
The other pirates were looking their last, too; and they all looked so long that they came
near letting the current drift them out of the range of the island. But they discovered the
danger in time, and made shift to avert it. About two o'clock in the morning the raft grounded
on the bar two hundred yards above the head of the island, and they waded back and forth until
they had landed their freight. Part of the little raft's belongings consisted of an old sail,
and this they spread over a nook in the bushes for a tent to shelter their provisions; but
they themselves would sleep in the open air in good weather, as became outlaws.

When the last crisp slice of bacon was gone, and the last allowance of corn pone devoured,
the boys stretched themselves out on the grass, filled with contentment. They could have found
a cooler place, but they would not deny themselves such a romantic feature as the roasting
camp-fire.

"AIN'T it gay?" said Joe.

"It's NUTS!" said Tom. "What would the boys say if they could see us?"

"Say? Well, they'd just die to be here--hey, Hucky!"

"I reckon so," said Huckleberry; "anyways, I'm suited. I don't want nothing better'n this.
I don't ever get enough to eat, gen'ally--and here they can't come and pick at a feller and
bullyrag him so."

"It's just the life for me," said Tom. "You don't have to get up, mornings, and you don't have
to go to school, and wash, and all that blame foolishness. You see a pirate don't have to do
ANYTHING, Joe, when he's ashore, but a hermit HE has to be praying considerable, and then he
don't have any fun, anyway, all by himself that way."

"Oh yes, that's so," said Joe, "but I hadn't thought much about it, you know. I'd a good deal
rather be a pirate, now that I've tried it."

"You see," said Tom, "people don't go much on hermits, nowadays, like they used to in old times,
but a pirate's always respected. And a hermit's got to sleep on the hardest place he can find,
and put sackcloth and ashes on his head, and stand out in the rain, and--"

"What does he put sackcloth and ashes on his head for?" inquired Huck.

"I dono. But they've GOT to do it. Hermits always do. You'd have to do that if you was a hermit."

"Dern'd if I would," said Huck.

"Well, what would you do?"

"I dono. But I wouldn't do that."

"Why, Huck, you'd HAVE to. How'd you get around it?"

"Why, I just wouldn't stand it. I'd run away."

"Run away! Well, you WOULD be a nice old slouch of a hermit. You'd be a disgrace."

The Red-Handed made no response, being better employed. He had finished gouging out a cob,
and now he fitted a weed stem to it, loaded it with tobacco, and was pressing a coal to the
charge and blowing a cloud of fragrant smoke--he was in the full bloom of luxurious contentment.
The other pirates envied him this majestic vice, and secretly resolved to acquire it shortly.
Presently Huck said:

"What does pirates have to do?"

Tom said:

"Oh, they have just a bully time--take ships and burn them, and get the money and bury it in
awful places in their island where there's ghosts and things to watch it, and kill everybody
in the ships--make 'em walk a plank."

"And they carry the women to the island," said Joe; "they don't kill the women."

"No," assented Tom, "they don't kill the women--they're too noble. And the women's always beautiful,
too.

"And don't they wear the bulliest clothes! Oh no! All gold and silver and di'monds," said Joe,
with enthusiasm.

"Who?" said Huck.

"Why, the pirates."

Huck scanned his own clothing forlornly.

"I reckon I ain't dressed fitten for a pirate," said he, with a regretful pathos in his voice;
"but I ain't got none but these."

But the other boys told him the fine clothes would come fast enough, after they should have
begun their adventures. They made him understand that his poor rags would do to begin with,
though it was customary for wealthy pirates to start with a proper wardrobe.

Gradually their talk died out and drowsiness began to steal upon the eyelids of the little
waifs. The pipe dropped from the fingers of the Red-Handed, and he slept the sleep of the conscience-free
and the weary. The Terror of the Seas and the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main had more difficulty
in getting to sleep. They said their prayers inwardly, and lying down, since there was nobody
there with authority to make them kneel and recite aloud; in truth, they had a mind not to
say them at all, but they were afraid to proceed to such lengths as that, lest they might call
down a sudden and special thunderbolt from heaven. Then at once they reached and hovered upon
the imminent verge of sleep--but an intruder came, now, that would not "down." It was conscience.
They began to feel a vague fear that they had been doing wrong to run away; and next they thought
of the stolen meat, and then the real torture came. They tried to argue it away by reminding
conscience that they had purloined sweetmeats and apples scores of times; but conscience was
not to be appeased by such thin plausibilities; it seemed to them, in the end, that there was
no getting around the stubborn fact that taking sweetmeats was only "hooking," while taking
bacon and hams and such valuables was plain simple stealing--and there was a command against
that in the Bible. So they inwardly resolved that so long as they remained in the business,
their piracies should not again be sullied with the crime of stealing. Then conscience granted
a truce, and these curiously inconsistent pirates fell peacefully to sleep.

CHAPTER XIV

WHEN Tom awoke in the morning, he wondered where he was. He sat up and rubbed his eyes and
looked around. Then he comprehended. It was the cool gray dawn, and there was a delicious sense
of repose and peace in the deep pervading calm and silence of the woods. Not a leaf stirred;
not a sound obtruded upon great Nature's meditation. Beaded dewdrops stood upon the leaves
and grasses. A white layer of ashes covered the fire, and a thin blue breath of smoke rose
straight into the air. Joe and Huck still slept.

Now, far away in the woods a bird called; another answered; presently the hammering of a woodpecker
was heard. Gradually the cool dim gray of the morning whitened, and as gradually sounds multiplied
and life manifested itself. The marvel of Nature shaking off sleep and going to work unfolded
itself to the musing boy. A little green worm came crawling over a dewy leaf, lifting two-thirds
of his body into the air from time to time and "sniffing around," then proceeding again--for
he was measuring, Tom said; and when the worm approached him, of its own accord, he sat as
still as a stone, with his hopes rising and falling, by turns, as the creature still came toward
him or seemed inclined to go elsewhere; and when at last it considered a painful moment with
its curved body in the air and then came decisively down upon Tom's leg and began a journey
over him, his whole heart was glad--for that meant that he was going to have a new suit of
clothes--without the shadow of a doubt a gaudy piratical uniform. Now a procession of ants
appeared, from nowhere in particular, and went about their labors; one struggled manfully by
with a dead spider five times as big as itself in its arms, and lugged it straight up a tree-trunk.
A brown spotted lady-bug climbed the dizzy height of a grass blade, and Tom bent down close
to it and said, "Lady-bug, lady-bug, fly away home, your house is on fire, your children's
alone," and she took wing and went off to see about it --which did not surprise the boy, for
he knew of old that this insect was credulous about conflagrations, and he had practised upon
its simplicity more than once. A tumblebug came next, heaving sturdily at its ball, and Tom
touched the creature, to see it shut its legs against its body and pretend to be dead. The
birds were fairly rioting by this time. A catbird, the Northern mocker, lit in a tree over
Tom's head, and trilled out her imitations of her neighbors in a rapture of enjoyment; then
a shrill jay swept down, a flash of blue flame, and stopped on a twig almost within the boy's
reach, cocked his head to one side and eyed the strangers with a consuming curiosity; a gray
squirrel and a big fellow of the "fox" kind came skurrying along, sitting up at intervals to
inspect and chatter at the boys, for the wild things had probably never seen a human being
before and scarcely knew whether to be afraid or not. All Nature was wide awake and stirring,
now; long lances of sunlight pierced down through the dense foliage far and near, and a few
butterflies came fluttering upon the scene.

Tom stirred up the other pirates and they all clattered away with a shout, and in a minute
or two were stripped and chasing after and tumbling over each other in the shallow limpid water
of the white sandbar. They felt no longing for the little village sleeping in the distance
beyond the majestic waste of water. A vagrant current or a slight rise in the river had carried
off their raft, but this only gratified them, since its going was something like burning the
bridge between them and civilization.

They came back to camp wonderfully refreshed, glad-hearted, and ravenous; and they soon had
the camp-fire blazing up again. Huck found a spring of clear cold water close by, and the boys
made cups of broad oak or hickory leaves, and felt that water, sweetened with such a wildwood
charm as that, would be a good enough substitute for coffee. While Joe was slicing bacon for
breakfast, Tom and Huck asked him to hold on a minute; they stepped to a promising nook in
the river-bank and threw in their lines; almost immediately they had reward. Joe had not had
time to get impatient before they were back again with some handsome bass, a couple of sun-perch
and a small catfish--provisions enough for quite a family. They fried the fish with the bacon,
and were astonished; for no fish had ever seemed so delicious before. They did not know that
the quicker a fresh-water fish is on the fire after he is caught the better he is; and they
reflected little upon what a sauce open-air sleeping, open-air exercise, bathing, and a large
ingredient of hunger make, too.

They lay around in the shade, after breakfast, while Huck had a smoke, and then went off through
the woods on an exploring expedition. They tramped gayly along, over decaying logs, through
tangled underbrush, among solemn monarchs of the forest, hung from their crowns to the ground
with a drooping regalia of grape-vines. Now and then they came upon snug nooks carpeted with
grass and jeweled with flowers.

They found plenty of things to be delighted with, but nothing to be astonished at. They discovered
that the island was about three miles long and a quarter of a mile wide, and that the shore
it lay closest to was only separated from it by a narrow channel hardly two hundred yards wide.
They took a swim about every hour, so it was close upon the middle of the afternoon when they
got back to camp. They were too hungry to stop to fish, but they fared sumptuously upon cold
ham, and then threw themselves down in the shade to talk. But the talk soon began to drag,
and then died. The stillness, the solemnity that brooded in the woods, and the sense of loneliness,
began to tell upon the spirits of the boys. They fell to thinking. A sort of undefined longing
crept upon them. This took dim shape, presently--it was budding homesickness. Even Finn the
Red-Handed was dreaming of his doorsteps and empty hogsheads. But they were all ashamed of
their weakness, and none was brave enough to speak his thought.

For some time, now, the boys had been dully conscious of a peculiar sound in the distance,
just as one sometimes is of the ticking of a clock which he takes no distinct note of. But
now this mysterious sound became more pronounced, and forced a recognition. The boys started,
glanced at each other, and then each assumed a listening attitude. There was a long silence,
profound and unbroken; then a deep, sullen boom came floating down out of the distance.

"What is it!" exclaimed Joe, under his breath.

"I wonder," said Tom in a whisper.

"'Tain't thunder," said Huckleberry, in an awed tone, "becuz thunder--"

"Hark!" said Tom. "Listen--don't talk."

They waited a time that seemed an age, and then the same muffled boom troubled the solemn hush.

"Let's go and see."

They sprang to their feet and hurried to the shore toward the town. They parted the bushes
on the bank and peered out over the water. The little steam ferryboat was about a mile below
the village, drifting with the current. Her broad deck seemed crowded with people. There were
a great many skiffs rowing about or floating with the stream in the neighborhood of the ferryboat,
but the boys could not determine what the men in them were doing. Presently a great jet of
white smoke burst from the ferryboat's side, and as it expanded and rose in a lazy cloud, that
same dull throb of sound was borne to the listeners again.

"I know now!" exclaimed Tom; "somebody's drownded!"

"That's it!" said Huck; "they done that last summer, when Bill Turner got drownded; they shoot
a cannon over the water, and that makes him come up to the top. Yes, and they take loaves of
bread and put quicksilver in 'em and set 'em afloat, and wherever there's anybody that's drownded,
they'll float right there and stop."

"Yes, I've heard about that," said Joe. "I wonder what makes the bread do that."

"Oh, it ain't the bread, so much," said Tom; "I reckon it's mostly what they SAY over it before
they start it out."

"But they don't say anything over it," said Huck. "I've seen 'em and they don't."

"Well, that's funny," said Tom. "But maybe they say it to themselves. Of COURSE they do. Anybody
might know that."

The other boys agreed that there was reason in what Tom said, because an ignorant lump of bread,
uninstructed by an incantation, could not be expected to act very intelligently when set upon
an errand of such gravity.

"By jings, I wish I was over there, now," said Joe.

"I do too" said Huck "I'd give heaps to know who it is."

The boys still listened and watched. Presently a revealing thought flashed through Tom's mind,
and he exclaimed:

"Boys, I know who's drownded--it's us!"

They felt like heroes in an instant. Here was a gorgeous triumph; they were missed; they were
mourned; hearts were breaking on their account; tears were being shed; accusing memories of
unkindness to these poor lost lads were rising up, and unavailing regrets and remorse were
being indulged; and best of all, the departed were the talk of the whole town, and the envy
of all the boys, as far as this dazzling notoriety was concerned. This was fine. It was worth
while to be a pirate, after all.

As twilight drew on, the ferryboat went back to her accustomed business and the skiffs disappeared.
The pirates returned to camp. They were jubilant with vanity over their new grandeur and the
illustrious trouble they were making. They caught fish, cooked supper and ate it, and then
fell to guessing at what the village was thinking and saying about them; and the pictures they
drew of the public distress on their account were gratifying to look upon--from their point
of view. But when the shadows of night closed them in, they gradually ceased to talk, and sat
gazing into the fire, with their minds evidently wandering elsewhere. The excitement was gone,
now, and Tom and Joe could not keep back thoughts of certain persons at home who were not enjoying
this fine frolic as much as they were. Misgivings came; they grew troubled and unhappy; a sigh
or two escaped, unawares. By and by Joe timidly ventured upon a roundabout "feeler" as to how
the others might look upon a return to civilization--not right now, but--

Tom withered him with derision! Huck, being uncommitted as yet, joined in with Tom, and the
waverer quickly "explained," and was glad to get out of the scrape with as little taint of
chicken-hearted homesickness clinging to his garments as he could. Mutiny was effectually laid
to rest for the moment.

As the night deepened, Huck began to nod, and presently to snore. Joe followed next. Tom lay
upon his elbow motionless, for some time, watching the two intently. At last he got up cautiously,
on his knees, and went searching among the grass and the flickering reflections flung by the
camp-fire. He picked up and inspected several large semi-cylinders of the thin white bark of
a sycamore, and finally chose two which seemed to suit him. Then he knelt by the fire and painfully
wrote something upon each of these with his "red keel"; one he rolled up and put in his jacket
pocket, and the other he put in Joe's hat and removed it to a little distance from the owner.
And he also put into the hat certain schoolboy treasures of almost inestimable value--among
them a lump of chalk, an India-rubber ball, three fishhooks, and one of that kind of marbles
known as a "sure 'nough crystal." Then he tiptoed his way cautiously among the trees till he
felt that he was out of hearing, and straightway broke into a keen run in the direction of
the sandbar.

CHAPTER XV

A FEW minutes later Tom was in the shoal water of the bar, wading toward the Illinois shore.
Before the depth reached his middle he was half-way over; the current would permit no more
wading, now, so he struck out confidently to swim the remaining hundred yards. He swam quartering
upstream, but still was swept downward rather faster than he had expected. However, he reached
the shore finally, and drifted along till he found a low place and drew himself out. He put
his hand on his jacket pocket, found his piece of bark safe, and then struck through the woods,
following the shore, with streaming garments. Shortly before ten o'clock he came out into an
open place opposite the village, and saw the ferryboat lying in the shadow of the trees and
the high bank. Everything was quiet under the blinking stars. He crept down the bank, watching
with all his eyes, slipped into the water, swam three or four strokes and climbed into the
skiff that did "yawl" duty at the boat's stern. He laid himself down under the thwarts and
waited, panting.

Presently the cracked bell tapped and a voice gave the order to "cast off." A minute or two
later the skiff's head was standing high up, against the boat's swell, and the voyage was begun.
Tom felt happy in his success, for he knew it was the boat's last trip for the night. At the
end of a long twelve or fifteen minutes the wheels stopped, and Tom slipped overboard and swam
ashore in the dusk, landing fifty yards downstream, out of danger of possible stragglers.

He flew along unfrequented alleys, and shortly found himself at his aunt's back fence. He climbed
over, approached the "ell," and looked in at the sitting-room window, for a light was burning
there. There sat Aunt Polly, Sid, Mary, and Joe Harper's mother, grouped together, talking.
They were by the bed, and the bed was between them and the door. Tom went to the door and began
to softly lift the latch; then he pressed gently and the door yielded a crack; he continued
pushing cautiously, and quaking every time it creaked, till he judged he might squeeze through
on his knees; so he put his head through and began, warily.

"What makes the candle blow so?" said Aunt Polly. Tom hurried up. "Why, that door's open, I
believe. Why, of course it is. No end of strange things now. Go 'long and shut it, Sid."

Tom disappeared under the bed just in time. He lay and "breathed" himself for a time, and then
crept to where he could almost touch his aunt's foot.

"But as I was saying," said Aunt Polly, "he warn't BAD, so to say --only mischEEvous. Only
just giddy, and harum-scarum, you know. He warn't any more responsible than a colt. HE never
meant any harm, and he was the best-hearted boy that ever was"--and she began to cry.

"It was just so with my Joe--always full of his devilment, and up to every kind of mischief,
but he was just as unselfish and kind as he could be--and laws bless me, to think I went and
whipped him for taking that cream, never once recollecting that I throwed it out myself because
it was sour, and I never to see him again in this world, never, never, never, poor abused boy!"
And Mrs. Harper sobbed as if her heart would break.

"I hope Tom's better off where he is," said Sid, "but if he'd been better in some ways--"

"SID!" Tom felt the glare of the old lady's eye, though he could not see it. "Not a word against
my Tom, now that he's gone! God'll take care of HIM--never you trouble YOURself, sir! Oh, Mrs.
Harper, I don't know how to give him up! I don't know how to give him up! He was such a comfort
to me, although he tormented my old heart out of me, 'most."

"The Lord giveth and the Lord hath taken away--Blessed be the name of the Lord! But it's so
hard--Oh, it's so hard! Only last Saturday my Joe busted a firecracker right under my nose
and I knocked him sprawling. Little did I know then, how soon--Oh, if it was to do over again
I'd hug him and bless him for it."

"Yes, yes, yes, I know just how you feel, Mrs. Harper, I know just exactly how you feel. No
longer ago than yesterday noon, my Tom took and filled the cat full of Pain-killer, and I did
think the cretur would tear the house down. And God forgive me, I cracked Tom's head with my
thimble, poor boy, poor dead boy. But he's out of all his troubles now. And the last words
I ever heard him say was to reproach--"

But this memory was too much for the old lady, and she broke entirely down. Tom was snuffling,
now, himself--and more in pity of himself than anybody else. He could hear Mary crying, and
putting in a kindly word for him from time to time. He began to have a nobler opinion of himself
than ever before. Still, he was sufficiently touched by his aunt's grief to long to rush out
from under the bed and overwhelm her with joy--and the theatrical gorgeousness of the thing
appealed strongly to his nature, too, but he resisted and lay still.

He went on listening, and gathered by odds and ends that it was conjectured at first that the
boys had got drowned while taking a swim; then the small raft had been missed; next, certain
boys said the missing lads had promised that the village should "hear something" soon; the
wise-heads had "put this and that together" and decided that the lads had gone off on that
raft and would turn up at the next town below, presently; but toward noon the raft had been
found, lodged against the Missouri shore some five or six miles below the village --and then
hope perished; they must be drowned, else hunger would have driven them home by nightfall if
not sooner. It was believed that the search for the bodies had been a fruitless effort merely
because the drowning must have occurred in mid-channel, since the boys, being good swimmers,
would otherwise have escaped to shore. This was Wednesday night. If the bodies continued missing
until Sunday, all hope would be given over, and the funerals would be preached on that morning.
Tom shuddered.

Mrs. Harper gave a sobbing good-night and turned to go. Then with a mutual impulse the two
bereaved women flung themselves into each other's arms and had a good, consoling cry, and then
parted. Aunt Polly was tender far beyond her wont, in her good-night to Sid and Mary. Sid snuffled
a bit and Mary went off crying with all her heart.

Aunt Polly knelt down and prayed for Tom so touchingly, so appealingly, and with such measureless
love in her words and her old trembling voice, that he was weltering in tears again, long before
she was through.

He had to keep still long after she went to bed, for she kept making broken-hearted ejaculations
from time to time, tossing unrestfully, and turning over. But at last she was still, only moaning
a little in her sleep. Now the boy stole out, rose gradually by the bedside, shaded the candle-light
with his hand, and stood regarding her. His heart was full of pity for her. He took out his
sycamore scroll and placed it by the candle. But something occurred to him, and he lingered
considering. His face lighted with a happy solution of his thought; he put the bark hastily
in his pocket. Then he bent over and kissed the faded lips, and straightway made his stealthy
exit, latching the door behind him.

He threaded his way back to the ferry landing, found nobody at large there, and walked boldly
on board the boat, for he knew she was tenantless except that there was a watchman, who always
turned in and slept like a graven image. He untied the skiff at the stern, slipped into it,
and was soon rowing cautiously upstream. When he had pulled a mile above the village, he started
quartering across and bent himself stoutly to his work. He hit the landing on the other side
neatly, for this was a familiar bit of work to him. He was moved to capture the skiff, arguing
that it might be considered a ship and therefore legitimate prey for a pirate, but he knew
a thorough search would be made for it and that might end in revelations. So he stepped ashore
and entered the woods.

He sat down and took a long rest, torturing himself meanwhile to keep awake, and then started
warily down the home-stretch. The night was far spent. It was broad daylight before he found
himself fairly abreast the island bar. He rested again until the sun was well up and gilding
the great river with its splendor, and then he plunged into the stream. A little later he paused,
dripping, upon the threshold of the camp, and heard Joe say:

"No, Tom's true-blue, Huck, and he'll come back. He won't desert. He knows that would be a
disgrace to a pirate, and Tom's too proud for that sort of thing. He's up to something or other.
Now I wonder what?"

"Well, the things is ours, anyway, ain't they?"

Pretty near, but not yet, Huck. The writing says they are if he ain't back here to breakfast."

"Which he is!" exclaimed Tom, with fine dramatic effect, stepping grandly into camp.

A sumptuous breakfast of bacon and fish was shortly provided, and as the boys set to work upon
it, Tom recounted (and adorned) his adventures. They were a vain and boastful company of heroes
when the tale was done. Then Tom hid himself away in a shady nook to sleep till noon, and the
other pirates got ready to fish and explore.

CHAPTER XVI

AFTER dinner all the gang turned out to hunt for turtle eggs on the bar. They went about poking
sticks into the sand, and when they found a soft place they went down on their knees and dug
with their hands. Sometimes they would take fifty or sixty eggs out of one hole. They were
perfectly round white things a trifle smaller than an English walnut. They had a famous fried-egg
feast that night, and another on Friday morning.

After breakfast they went whooping and prancing out on the bar, and chased each other round
and round, shedding clothes as they went, until they were naked, and then continued the frolic
far away up the shoal water of the bar, against the stiff current, which latter tripped their
legs from under them from time to time and greatly increased the fun. And now and then they
stooped in a group and splashed water in each other's faces with their palms, gradually approaching
each other, with averted faces to avoid the strangling sprays, and finally gripping and struggling
till the best man ducked his neighbor, and then they all went under in a tangle of white legs
and arms and came up blowing, sputtering, laughing, and gasping for breath at one and the same
time.

When they were well exhausted, they would run out and sprawl on the dry, hot sand, and lie
there and cover themselves up with it, and by and by break for the water again and go through
the original performance once more. Finally it occurred to them that their naked skin represented
flesh-colored "tights" very fairly; so they drew a ring in the sand and had a circus--with
three clowns in it, for none would yield this proudest post to his neighbor.

Next they got their marbles and played "knucks" and "ring-taw" and "keeps" till that amusement
grew stale. Then Joe and Huck had another swim, but Tom would not venture, because he found
that in kicking off his trousers he had kicked his string of rattlesnake rattles off his ankle,
and he wondered how he had escaped cramp so long without the protection of this mysterious
charm. He did not venture again until he had found it, and by that time the other boys were
tired and ready to rest. They gradually wandered apart, dropped into the "dumps," and fell
to gazing longingly across the wide river to where the village lay drowsing in the sun. Tom
found himself writing "BECKY" in the sand with his big toe; he scratched it out, and was angry
with himself for his weakness. But he wrote it again, nevertheless; he could not help it. He
erased it once more and then took himself out of temptation by driving the other boys together
and joining them.

But Joe's spirits had gone down almost beyond resurrection. He was so homesick that he could
hardly endure the misery of it. The tears lay very near the surface. Huck was melancholy, too.
Tom was downhearted, but tried hard not to show it. He had a secret which he was not ready
to tell, yet, but if this mutinous depression was not broken up soon, he would have to bring
it out. He said, with a great show of cheerfulness:

"I bet there's been pirates on this island before, boys. We'll explore it again. They've hid
treasures here somewhere. How'd you feel to light on a rotten chest full of gold and silver--hey?"

But it roused only faint enthusiasm, which faded out, with no reply. Tom tried one or two other
seductions; but they failed, too. It was discouraging work. Joe sat poking up the sand with
a stick and looking very gloomy. Finally he said:

"Oh, boys, let's give it up. I want to go home. It's so lonesome."

"Oh no, Joe, you'll feel better by and by," said Tom. "Just think of the fishing that's here."

"I don't care for fishing. I want to go home."

"But, Joe, there ain't such another swimming-place anywhere."

"Swimming's no good. I don't seem to care for it, somehow, when there ain't anybody to say
I sha'n't go in. I mean to go home."

"Oh, shucks! Baby! You want to see your mother, I reckon."

"Yes, I DO want to see my mother--and you would, too, if you had one. I ain't any more baby
than you are." And Joe snuffled a little.

"Well, we'll let the cry-baby go home to his mother, won't we, Huck? Poor thing--does it want
to see its mother? And so it shall. You like it here, don't you, Huck? We'll stay, won't we?"

Huck said, "Y-e-s"--without any heart in it.

"I'll never speak to you again as long as I live," said Joe, rising. "There now!" And he moved
moodily away and began to dress himself.

"Who cares!" said Tom. "Nobody wants you to. Go 'long home and get laughed at. Oh, you're a
nice pirate. Huck and me ain't cry-babies. We'll stay, won't we, Huck? Let him go if he wants
to. I reckon we can get along without him, per'aps."

