And as the evening drew near, we clambered down the mountain, through groves of the Biblical
oaks of Bashan, (for we were just stepping over the border and entering the long-sought Holy
Land,) and at its extreme foot, toward the wide valley, we entered this little execrable village
of Banias and camped in a great grove of olive trees near a torrent of sparkling water whose
banks are arrayed in fig-trees, pomegranates and oleanders in full leaf.  Barring the proximity
of the village, it is a sort of paradise.

The very first thing one feels like doing when he gets into camp, all burning up and dusty,
is to hunt up a bath.  We followed the stream up to where it gushes out of the mountain side,
three hundred yards from the tents, and took a bath that was so icy that if I did not know
this was the main source of the sacred river, I would expect harm to come of it. It was bathing
at noonday in the chilly source of the Abana, "River of Damascus," that gave me the cholera,
so Dr. B.  said.  However, it generally does give me the cholera to take a bath.

The incorrigible pilgrims have come in with their pockets full of specimens broken from the
ruins.  I wish this vandalism could be stopped. They broke off fragments from Noah's tomb;
from the exquisite sculptures of the temples of Baalbec; from the houses of Judas and Ananias,
in Damascus; from the tomb of Nimrod the Mighty Hunter in Jonesborough; from the worn Greek
and Roman inscriptions set in the hoary walls of the Castle of Banias; and now they have been
hacking and chipping these old arches here that Jesus looked upon in the flesh.  Heaven protect
the Sepulchre when this tribe invades Jerusalem!

The ruins here are not very interesting.  There are the massive walls of a great square building
that was once the citadel; there are many ponderous old arches that are so smothered with debris
that they barely project above the ground; there are heavy-walled sewers through which the
crystal brook of which Jordan is born still runs; in the hill-side are the substructions of
a costly marble temple that Herod the Great built here--patches of its handsome mosaic floors
still remain; there is a quaint old stone bridge that was here before Herod's time, may be;
scattered every where, in the paths and in the woods, are Corinthian capitals, broken porphyry
pillars, and little fragments of sculpture; and up yonder in the precipice where the fountain
gushes out, are well-worn Greek inscriptions over niches in the rock where in ancient times
the Greeks, and after them the Romans, worshipped the sylvan god Pan.  But trees and bushes
grow above many of these ruins now; the miserable huts of a little crew of filthy Arabs are
perched upon the broken masonry of antiquity, the whole place has a sleepy, stupid, rural look
about it, and one can hardly bring himself to believe that a busy, substantially built city
once existed here, even two thousand years ago.  The place was nevertheless the scene of an
event whose effects have added page after page and volume after volume to the world's history.

On those little sentences have been built up the mighty edifice of the Church of Rome; in them
lie the authority for the imperial power of the Popes over temporal affairs, and their godlike
power to curse a soul or wash it white from sin.  To sustain the position of "the only true
Church," which Rome claims was thus conferred upon her, she has fought and labored and struggled
for many a century, and will continue to keep herself busy in the same work to the end of time.
The memorable words I have quoted give to this ruined city about all the interest it possesses
to people of the present day.

It seems curious enough to us to be standing on ground that was once actually pressed by the
feet of the Saviour.  The situation is suggestive of a reality and a tangibility that seem
at variance with the vagueness and mystery and ghostliness that one naturally attaches to the
character of a god.  I can not comprehend yet that I am sitting where a god has stood, and
looking upon the brook and the mountains which that god looked upon, and am surrounded by dusky
men and women whose ancestors saw him, and even talked with him, face to face, and carelessly,
just as they would have done with any other stranger.  I can not comprehend this; the gods
of my understanding have been always hidden in clouds and very far away.

This morning, during breakfast, the usual assemblage of squalid humanity sat patiently without
the charmed circle of the camp and waited for such crumbs as pity might bestow upon their misery.
There were old and young, brown-skinned and yellow.  Some of the men were tall and stalwart,
(for one hardly sees any where such splendid-looking men as here in the East,) but all the
women and children looked worn and sad, and distressed with hunger.  They reminded me much
of Indians, did these people.  They had but little clothing, but such as they had was fanciful
in character and fantastic in its arrangement.  Any little absurd gewgaw or gimcrack they had
they disposed in such a way as to make it attract attention most readily.  They sat in silence,
and with tireless patience watched our every motion with that vile, uncomplaining impoliteness
which is so truly Indian, and which makes a white man so nervous and uncomfortable and savage
that he wants to exterminate the whole tribe.

These people about us had other peculiarities, which I have noticed in the noble red man, too:
they were infested with vermin, and the dirt had caked on them till it amounted to bark.

The little children were in a pitiable condition--they all had sore eyes, and were otherwise
afflicted in various ways.  They say that hardly a native child in all the East is free from
sore eyes, and that thousands of them go blind of one eye or both every year.  I think this
must be so, for I see plenty of blind people every day, and I do not remember seeing any children
that hadn't sore eyes.  And, would you suppose that an American mother could sit for an hour,
with her child in her arms, and let a hundred flies roost upon its eyes all that time undisturbed?
I see that every day.  It makes my flesh creep.  Yesterday we met a woman riding on a little
jackass, and she had a little child in her arms --honestly, I thought the child had goggles
on as we approached, and I wondered how its mother could afford so much style.  But when we
drew near, we saw that the goggles were nothing but a camp meeting of flies assembled around
each of the child's eyes, and at the same time there was a detachment prospecting its nose.
The flies were happy, the child was contented, and so the mother did not interfere.

As soon as the tribe found out that we had a doctor in our party, they began to flock in from
all quarters.  Dr. B., in the charity of his nature, had taken a child from a woman who sat
near by, and put some sort of a wash upon its diseased eyes.  That woman went off and started
the whole nation, and it was a sight to see them swarm!  The lame, the halt, the blind, the
leprous--all the distempers that are bred of indolence, dirt, and iniquity--were represented
in the Congress in ten minutes, and still they came!  Every woman that had a sick baby brought
it along, and every woman that hadn't, borrowed one.  What reverent and what worshiping looks
they bent upon that dread, mysterious power, the Doctor!  They watched him take his phials
out; they watched him measure the particles of white powder; they watched him add drops of
one precious liquid, and drops of another; they lost not the slightest movement; their eyes
were riveted upon him with a fascination that nothing could distract. I believe they thought
he was gifted like a god.  When each individual got his portion of medicine, his eyes were
radiant with joy --notwithstanding by nature they are a thankless and impassive race--and upon
his face was written the unquestioning faith that nothing on earth could prevent the patient
from getting well now.

Christ knew how to preach to these simple, superstitious, disease-tortured creatures: He healed
the sick.  They flocked to our poor human doctor this morning when the fame of what he had
done to the sick child went abroad in the land, and they worshiped him with their eyes while
they did not know as yet whether there was virtue in his simples or not. The ancestors of these--people
precisely like them in color, dress, manners, customs, simplicity--flocked in vast multitudes
after Christ, and when they saw Him make the afflicted whole with a word, it is no wonder they
worshiped Him.  No wonder His deeds were the talk of the nation.  No wonder the multitude that
followed Him was so great that at one time--thirty miles from here--they had to let a sick
man down through the roof because no approach could be made to the door; no wonder His audiences
were so great at Galilee that He had to preach from a ship removed a little distance from the
shore; no wonder that even in the desert places about Bethsaida, five thousand invaded His
solitude, and He had to feed them by a miracle or else see them suffer for their confiding
faith and devotion; no wonder when there was a great commotion in a city in those days, one
neighbor explained it to another in words to this effect: "They say that Jesus of Nazareth
is come!"

Well, as I was saying, the doctor distributed medicine as long as he had any to distribute,
and his reputation is mighty in Galilee this day. Among his patients was the child of the Shiek's
daughter--for even this poor, ragged handful of sores and sin has its royal Shiek--a poor old
mummy that looked as if he would be more at home in a poor-house than in the Chief Magistracy
of this tribe of hopeless, shirtless savages.  The princess--I mean the Shiek's daughter--was
only thirteen or fourteen years old, and had a very sweet face and a pretty one.  She was the
only Syrian female we have seen yet who was not so sinfully ugly that she couldn't smile after
ten o'clock Saturday night without breaking the Sabbath.  Her child was a hard specimen, though--there
wasn't enough of it to make a pie, and the poor little thing looked so pleadingly up at all
who came near it (as if it had an idea that now was its chance or never,) that we were filled
with compassion which was genuine and not put on.

But this last new horse I have got is trying to break his neck over the tent-ropes, and I shall
have to go out and anchor him.  Jericho and I have parted company.  The new horse is not much
to boast of, I think. One of his hind legs bends the wrong way, and the other one is as straight
and stiff as a tent-pole.  Most of his teeth are gone, and he is as blind as bat.  His nose
has been broken at some time or other, and is arched like a culvert now.  His under lip hangs
down like a camel's, and his ears are chopped off close to his head.  I had some trouble at
first to find a name for him, but I finally concluded to call him Baalbec, because he is such
a magnificent ruin.  I can not keep from talking about my horses, because I have a very long
and tedious journey before me, and they naturally occupy my thoughts about as much as matters
of apparently much greater importance.

We satisfied our pilgrims by making those hard rides from Baalbec to Damascus, but Dan's horse
and Jack's were so crippled we had to leave them behind and get fresh animals for them.  The
dragoman says Jack's horse died.  I swapped horses with Mohammed, the kingly-looking Egyptian
who is our Ferguson's lieutenant.  By Ferguson I mean our dragoman Abraham, of course.  I did
not take this horse on account of his personal appearance, but because I have not seen his
back.  I do not wish to see it.  I have seen the backs of all the other horses, and found most
of them covered with dreadful saddle-boils which I know have not been washed or doctored for
years.  The idea of riding all day long over such ghastly inquisitions of torture is sickening.
My horse must be like the others, but I have at least the consolation of not knowing it to be so.

I hope that in future I may be spared any more sentimental praises of the Arab's idolatry of
his horse.  In boyhood I longed to be an Arab of the desert and have a beautiful mare, and
call her Selim or Benjamin or Mohammed, and feed her with my own hands, and let her come into
the tent, and teach her to caress me and look fondly upon me with her great tender eyes; and
I wished that a stranger might come at such a time and offer me a hundred thousand dollars
for her, so that I could do like the other Arabs--hesitate, yearn for the money, but overcome
by my love for my mare, at last say, "Part with thee, my beautiful one!  Never with my life!
Away, tempter, I scorn thy gold!"  and then bound into the saddle and speed over the desert
like the wind!

But I recall those aspirations.  If these Arabs be like the other Arabs, their love for their
beautiful mares is a fraud.  These of my acquaintance have no love for their horses, no sentiment
of pity for them, and no knowledge of how to treat them or care for them.  The Syrian saddle-blanket
is a quilted mattress two or three inches thick.  It is never removed from the horse, day or
night.  It gets full of dirt and hair, and becomes soaked with sweat.  It is bound to breed
sores.  These pirates never think of washing a horse's back.  They do not shelter the horses
in the tents, either--they must stay out and take the weather as it comes.  Look at poor cropped
and dilapidated "Baalbec," and weep for the sentiment that has been wasted upon the Selims
of romance!

CHAPTER XLVI.

About an hour's ride over a rough, rocky road, half flooded with water, and through a forest
of oaks of Bashan, brought us to Dan.

From a little mound here in the plain issues a broad stream of limpid water and forms a large
shallow pool, and then rushes furiously onward, augmented in volume.  This puddle is an important
source of the Jordan. Its banks, and those of the brook are respectably adorned with blooming
oleanders, but the unutterable beauty of the spot will not throw a well-balanced man into convulsions,
as the Syrian books of travel would lead one to suppose.

From the spot I am speaking of, a cannon-ball would carry beyond the confines of Holy Land
and light upon profane ground three miles away. We were only one little hour's travel within
the borders of Holy Land--we had hardly begun to appreciate yet that we were standing upon
any different sort of earth than that we had always been used to, and see how the historic
names began already to cluster!  Dan--Bashan--Lake Huleh --the Sources of Jordan--the Sea of
Galilee.  They were all in sight but the last, and it was not far away.  The little township
of Bashan was once the kingdom so famous in Scripture for its bulls and its oaks. Lake Huleh
is the Biblical "Waters of Merom."  Dan was the northern and Beersheba the southern limit of
Palestine--hence the expression "from Dan to Beersheba."  It is equivalent to our phrases "from
Maine to Texas" --"from Baltimore to San Francisco."  Our expression and that of the Israelites
both mean the same--great distance.  With their slow camels and asses, it was about a seven
days' journey from Dan to Beersheba---say a hundred and fifty or sixty miles--it was the entire
length of their country, and was not to be undertaken without great preparation and much ceremony.
When the Prodigal traveled to "a far country," it is not likely that he went more than eighty
or ninety miles.  Palestine is only from forty to sixty miles wide.  The State of Missouri
could be split into three Palestines, and there would then be enough material left for part
of another--possibly a whole one.  From Baltimore to San Francisco is several thousand miles,
but it will be only a seven days' journey in the cars when I am two or three years older.--[The
railroad has been completed since the above was written.]--If I live I shall necessarily have
to go across the continent every now and then in those cars, but one journey from Dan to Beersheba
will be sufficient, no doubt.  It must be the most trying of the two.  Therefore, if we chance
to discover that from Dan to Beersheba seemed a mighty stretch of country to the Israelites,
let us not be airy with them, but reflect that it was and is a mighty stretch when one can
not traverse it by rail.

The small mound I have mentioned a while ago was once occupied by the Phenician city of Laish.
A party of filibusters from Zorah and Eschol captured the place, and lived there in a free
and easy way, worshiping gods of their own manufacture and stealing idols from their neighbors
whenever they wore their own out.  Jeroboam set up a golden calf here to fascinate his people
and keep them from making dangerous trips to Jerusalem to worship, which might result in a
return to their rightful allegiance.  With all respect for those ancient Israelites, I can
not overlook the fact that they were not always virtuous enough to withstand the seductions
of a golden calf.  Human nature has not changed much since then.

Some forty centuries ago the city of Sodom was pillaged by the Arab princes of Mesopotamia,
and among other prisoners they seized upon the patriarch Lot and brought him here on their
way to their own possessions. They brought him to Dan, and father Abraham, who was pursuing
them, crept softly in at dead of night, among the whispering oleanders and under the shadows
of the stately oaks, and fell upon the slumbering victors and startled them from their dreams
with the clash of steel.  He recaptured Lot and all the other plunder.

We moved on.  We were now in a green valley, five or six miles wide and fifteen long.  The
streams which are called the sources of the Jordan flow through it to Lake Huleh, a shallow
pond three miles in diameter, and from the southern extremity of the Lake the concentrated
Jordan flows out.  The Lake is surrounded by a broad marsh, grown with reeds.  Between the
marsh and the mountains which wall the valley is a respectable strip of fertile land; at the
end of the valley, toward Dan, as much as half the land is solid and fertile, and watered by
Jordan's sources.  There is enough of it to make a farm.  It almost warrants the enthusiasm
of the spies of that rabble of adventurers who captured Dan.  They said: "We have seen the
land, and behold it is very good.  * * *  A place where there is no want of any thing that
is in the earth."

Their enthusiasm was at least warranted by the fact that they had never seen a country as good
as this.  There was enough of it for the ample support of their six hundred men and their families,
too.

When we got fairly down on the level part of the Danite farm, we came to places where we could
actually run our horses.  It was a notable circumstance.

We had been painfully clambering over interminable hills and rocks for days together, and when
we suddenly came upon this astonishing piece of rockless plain, every man drove the spurs into
his horse and sped away with a velocity he could surely enjoy to the utmost, but could never
hope to comprehend in Syria.

Here were evidences of cultivation--a rare sight in this country--an acre or two of rich soil
studded with last season's dead corn-stalks of the thickness of your thumb and very wide apart.
But in such a land it was a thrilling spectacle.  Close to it was a stream, and on its banks
a great herd of curious-looking Syrian goats and sheep were gratefully eating gravel.  I do
not state this as a petrified fact--I only suppose they were eating gravel, because there did
not appear to be any thing else for them to eat.  The shepherds that tended them were the very
pictures of Joseph and his brethren I have no doubt in the world.  They were tall, muscular,
and very dark-skinned Bedouins, with inky black beards.  They had firm lips, unquailing eyes,
and a kingly stateliness of bearing. They wore the parti-colored half bonnet, half hood, with
fringed ends falling upon their shoulders, and the full, flowing robe barred with broad black
stripes--the dress one sees in all pictures of the swarthy sons of the desert.  These chaps
would sell their younger brothers if they had a chance, I think.  They have the manners, the
customs, the dress, the occupation and the loose principles of the ancient stock. [They attacked
our camp last night, and I bear them no good will.] They had with them the pigmy jackasses
one sees all over Syria and remembers in all pictures of the "Flight into Egypt," where Mary
and the Young Child are riding and Joseph is walking alongside, towering high above the little
donkey's shoulders.

But really, here the man rides and carries the child, as a general thing, and the woman walks.
The customs have not changed since Joseph's time. We would not have in our houses a picture
representing Joseph riding and Mary walking; we would see profanation in it, but a Syrian Christian
would not.  I know that hereafter the picture I first spoke of will look odd to me.

We could not stop to rest two or three hours out from our camp, of course, albeit the brook
was beside us.  So we went on an hour longer. We saw water, then, but nowhere in all the waste
around was there a foot of shade, and we were scorching to death.  "Like unto the shadow of
a great rock in a weary land."  Nothing in the Bible is more beautiful than that, and surely
there is no place we have wandered to that is able to give it such touching expression as this
blistering, naked, treeless land.

Here you do not stop just when you please, but when you can.  We found water, but no shade.
We traveled on and found a tree at last, but no water.  We rested and lunched, and came on
to this place, Ain Mellahah (the boys call it Baldwinsville.) It was a very short day's run,
but the dragoman does not want to go further, and has invented a plausible lie about the country
beyond this being infested by ferocious Arabs, who would make sleeping in their midst a dangerous
pastime.  Well, they ought to be dangerous.  They carry a rusty old weather-beaten flint-lock
gun, with a barrel that is longer than themselves; it has no sights on it, it will not carry
farther than a brickbat, and is not half so certain.  And the great sash they wear in many
a fold around their waists has two or three absurd old horse-pistols in it that are rusty from
eternal disuse --weapons that would hang fire just about long enough for you to walk out of
range, and then burst and blow the Arab's head off.  Exceedingly dangerous these sons of the
desert are.

