The tithe system, unutterably odious and full of all injustice, had prepared the way for this
expression of feeling on the part of the people.  Ireland had never, in any period of her history,
bowed her neck peaceably to the ecclesiastical yoke.  From the Canon of Cashel, prepared by
English deputies in the twelfth century, decreeing for the first time that tithes should be
paid in Ireland, down to the present moment, the Church in her borders has relied solely upon
the strong arm of the law, and literally reaped its tithes with the sword.  The decree of the
Dublin Synod, under Archbishop Comyn, in 1185, could only be enforced within the pale of the
English settlement.  The attempts of Henry VIII. also failed. Without the pale all endeavors
to collect tithes were met by stern opposition.  And although from the time of William III.
the tithe system has been established in Ireland, yet at no period has it been regarded otherwise
than as a system of legalized robbery by seven eighths of the people.  An examination of this
system cannot fail to excite our wonder, not that it has been thus regarded, but that it has
been so long endured by any people on the face of the earth, least of all by Irishmen.  Tithes
to the amount of L1,000,000 are annually wrung from impoverished Ireland, in support of a clergy
who can only number about one sixteenth of her population as their hearers; and wrung, too,
in an undue proportion, from the Catholic counties. [See Dr. Doyle's Evidence before Hon. E.
G. Stanley.]  In the southern and middle counties, almost entirely inhabited by the Catholic
peasantry, every thing they possess is subject to the tithe: the cow is seized in the hovel,
the potato in the barrel, the coat even on the poor man's back. [Speech of T. Reynolds, Esq.,
at an anti- tithe meeting.]  The revenues of five of the dignitaries of the Irish Church Establishment
are as follows: the Primacy L140,000; Derry L120,000; Kilmore L100,000; Clogher L100,000; Waterford
L70,000.  Compare these enormous sums with that paid by Scotland for the maintenance of the
Church, namely L270,000.  Yet that Church has 2,000,000 souls under its care, while that of
Ireland has not above 500,000.  Nor are these princely livings expended in Ireland by their
possessors.  The bishoprics of Cloyne and Meath have been long held by absentees,--by men who
know no more of their flocks than the non-resident owner of a West India plantation did of
the miserable negroes, the fruits of whose thankless labor were annually transmitted to him.
Out of 1289 benefited clergymen in Ireland, between five and six hundred are non-residents,
spending in Bath and London, or in making the fashionable tour of the Continent, the wealth
forced from the Catholic peasant and the Protestant dissenter by the bayonets of the military.
Scorching and terrible was the sarcasm of Grattan applied to these locusts of the Church: "A
beastly and pompous priesthood, political potentates and Christian pastors, full of false zeal,
full of worldly pride, and full of gluttony, empty of the true religion, to their flocks oppressive,
to their inferior clergy brutal, to their king abject, and to their God impudent and familiar,--they
stand on the altar as a stepping-stone to the throne, glorying in the ear of princes, whom
they poison with crooked principles and heated advice; a faction against their king when they
are not his slaves,--ever the dirt under his feet or a poniard to his heart."

For the evils of absenteeism, the non-residence of the wealthy landholders, draining from a
starving country the very necessaries of life, a remedy is sought in a repeal of the union,
and the provisions of a domestic parliament.  In O'Connell's view, a restoration of such a
parliament can alone afford that adequate protection to the national industry so loudly demanded
by thousands of unemployed laborers, starving amid the ruins of deserted manufactories.  During
the brief period of partial Irish liberty which followed the pacific revolution of '82, the
manufactures of the country revived and flourished; and the smile of contented industry was
visible all over the land.  In 1797 there were 15,000 silk-weavers in the city of Dublin alone.
There are now but 400. Such is the practical effect of the Union, of that suicidal act of the
Irish Parliament which yielded up in a moment of treachery and terror the dearest interests
of the country to the legislation of an English Parliament and the tender mercies of Castlereagh,--of
that Castlereagh who, when accused by Grattan of spending L15,000 in purchasing votes for the
Union, replied with the rare audacity of high-handed iniquity, "We did spend L15,000, and we
would have spent L15,000,000 if necessary to carry the Union; "that Castlereagh who, when 707,000
Irishmen petitioned against the Union and 300,000 for it, maintained that the latter constituted
the majority!  Well has it been said that the deep vengeance which Ireland owed him was inflicted
by the great criminal upon himself. The nation which he sold and plundered saw him make with
his own hand the fearful retribution.  The great body of the Irish people never assented to
the Union.  The following extract from a speech of Earl (then Mr.) Grey, in 1800, upon the
Union question, will show what means were made use of to drag Ireland, while yet mourning over
her slaughtered children, to the marriage altar with England: "If the Parliament of Ireland
had been left to itself, untempted and unawed, it would without hesitation have rejected the
resolutions.  Out of the 300 members, 120 strenuously opposed the measure, 162 voted for it:
of these, 116 were placemen; some of them were English generals on the staff, without a foot
of ground in Ireland, and completely dependent on government."  "Let us reflect upon the arts
made use of since the last session of the Irish Parliament to pack a majority, for Union, in
the House of Commons.  All persons holding offices under government, if they hesitated to vote
as directed, were stripped of all their employments.  A bill framed for preserving the purity
of Parliament was likewise abused, and no less than 63 seats were vacated by their holders
having received nominal offices."

The signs of the times are most favorable to the success of the Irish Liberator.  The tremendous
power of the English political unions is beginning to develop itself in favor of Ireland. 
A deep sympathy is evinced for her sufferings, and a general determination to espouse her cause.
Brute force cannot put down the peaceable and legal agitation of the question of her rights
and interests.  The spirit of the age forbids it. His heart is evidently softened, and it is on occasion
that he pours out his pathetic nature over the condition of the world-- so fluent, and so wide,
now touching, that Connell listened with musical eyes, sad, till it had run to the length of
a sermon, to collect himself. It is true that at last his office as ghostly confessor is obliged
him to put in a demurrer:-- Uncle, and the badger, why these are
the sins of your neighbours; yours, i should think, were sufficient,
and rather more so to the purpose.



Ireland will be redeemed and disenthralled, not perhaps by a repeal of the Union, but by the
accomplishment of such a thorough reform in the government and policy of Great Britain as shall
render a repeal unnecessary and impolitic.

The sentiments of O'Connell in regard to the means of effecting his object of political reform
are distinctly impressed upon all his appeals to the people.  In his letter of December, 1832,
to the Dublin Trades Union, he says: "The Repealers must not have our cause stained with blood.
Far indeed from it.  We can, and ought to, carry the repeal only in the total absence of offence
against the laws of man or crime in the sight of God.  The best revolution which was ever effected
could not be worth one drop of human blood."  In his speech at the public dinner given him
by--the citizens of Cork, we find a yet more earnest avowal of pacific principles.  "It may
be stated," said he, "to countervail our efforts, that this struggle will involve the destruction
of life and property; that it will overturn the framework of civil society, and give an undue
and fearful influence to one rank to the ruin of all others. These are awful considerations,
truly, if risked.  I am one of those who have always believed that any political change is
too dearly purchased by a single drop of blood, and who think that any political superstructure
based upon other opinion is like the sand-supported fabric,--beautiful in the brief hour of
sunshine, but the moment one drop of rain touches the arid basis melting away in wreck and
ruin!  I am an accountable being; I have a soul and a God to answer to, in another and better
world, for my thoughts and actions in this.  I disclaim here any act of mine which would sport
with the lives of my fellow-creatures, any amelioration of our social condition which must
be purchased by their blood.  And here, in the face of God and of our common country, I protest
that if I did not sincerely and firmly believe that the amelioration I desire could be effected
without violence, without any change in the relative scale of ranks in the present social condition
of Ireland, except that change which all must desire, making each better than it was before,
and cementing all in one solid irresistible mass, I would at once give up the struggle which
I have always kept with tyranny.  I would withdraw from the contest which I have hitherto waged
with those who would perpetuate our thraldom.  I would not for one moment dare to venture for
that which in costing one human life would cost infinitely too dear.  But it will cost no such
price.  Have we not had within my memory two great political revolutions?  And had we them
not without bloodshed or violence to the social compact?  Have we not arrived at a period when
physical force and military power yield to moral and intellectual energy.  Has not the time
of 'Cedant arma togae' come for us and the other nations of the earth?"

Let us trust that the prediction of O'Connell will be verified; that reason and intellect are
destined, under God, to do that for the nations of the earth which the physical force of centuries
and the red sacrifice of a thousand battle-fields have failed to accomplish.  Glorious beyond
all others will be the day when "nation shall no more rise up against nation;" when, as a necessary
consequence of the universal acknowledgment of the rights of man, it shall no longer be in
the power of an individual to drag millions into strife, for the unholy gratification of personal
prejudice and passion.  The reformed governments of Great Britain and France, resting, as they
do, upon a popular basis, are already tending to this consummation, for the people have suffered
too much from the warlike ambition of their former masters not to have learned that the gains
of peaceful industry are better than the wages of human butchery.

Among the great names of Ireland--alike conspicuous, yet widely dissimilar--stand Wellington
and O'Connell.  The one smote down the modern Alexander upon Waterloo's field of death, but
the page of his reputation is dim with the tears of the widow and the orphan, and dark with
the stain of blood.  The other, armed only with the weapons of truth and reason, has triumphed
over the oppression of centuries, and opened a peaceful pathway to the Temple of Freedom, through
which its Goddess may be seen, no longer propitiated with human sacrifices, like some foul
idol of the East, but clothed in Christian attributes, and smiling in the beauty of holiness
upon the pure hearts and peaceful hands of its votaries.  The bloodless victories of the latter
have all the sublimity with none of the criminality which attaches itself to the triumphs of
the former.  To thunder high truths in the deafened ear of nations, to rouse the better spirit
of the age, to soothe the malignant passions of. assembled and maddened men, to throw open
the temple doors of justice to the abused, enslaved, and persecuted, to unravel the mysteries
of guilt, and hold up the workers of iniquity in the severe light of truth stripped of their
disguise and covered with the confusion of their own vileness,-- these are victories more glorious
than any which have ever reddened the earth with carnage:--

         "They ask a spirit of more exalted pitch,
          And courage tempered with a holier fire."

Of the more recent efforts of O'Connell we need not speak, for no one can read the English
periodicals and papers without perceiving that O'Connell is, at this moment, the leading politician,
the master mind of the British empire.  Attempts have been made to prejudice the American mind
against him by a republication on this side of the water of the false and foul slanders of
his Tory enemies, in reference to what is called the "O'Connell rent," a sum placed annually
in his hands by a grateful people, and which he has devoted scrupulously to the great object
of Ireland's political redemption.  He has acquired no riches by his political efforts his
heart and soul and mind and strength have been directed to his suffering country and the cause
of universal freedom. For this he has deservedly a place in the heart and affections of every
son of Ireland.  One million of ransomed slaves in the British dependencies will teach their
children to repeat the name of O'Connell with that of Wilberforce and Clarkson.  And when the
stain and caste of slavery shall have passed from our own country, he will be regarded as our
friend and benefactor, whose faithful rebukes and warnings and eloquent appeals to our pride
of character, borne to us across the Atlantic, touched the guilty sensitiveness of the national
conscience, and through shame prepared the way for repentance.

ENGLAND UNDER JAMES II.

     A review of the first two volumes of Macaulay's History of England
     from the Accession of James II.

In accordance with the labor-saving spirit of the age, we have in these volumes an admirable
example of history made easy.  Had they been published in his time, they might have found favor
in the eyes of the poet Gray, who declared that his ideal of happiness was "to lie on a sofa
and read eternal new romances."

The style is that which lends such a charm to the author's essays,-- brilliant, epigrammatic,
vigorous.  Indeed, herein lies the fault of the work, when viewed as a mere detail of historical
facts.  Its sparkling rhetoric is not the safest medium of truth to the simple-minded inquirer.
A discriminating and able critic has done the author no injustice in saying that, in attempting
to give effect and vividness to his thoughts and diction, he is often overstrained and extravagant,
and that his epigrammatic style seems better fitted for the glitter of paradox than the sober
guise of truth.  The intelligent and well-informed reader of the volume before us will find
himself at times compelled to reverse the decisions of the author, and deliver some unfortunate
personage, sect, or class from the pillory of his rhetoric and the merciless pelting of his
ridicule.  There is a want of the repose and quiet which we look for in a narrative of events
long passed away; we rise from the perusal of the book pleased and excited, but with not so
clear a conception of the actual realities of which it treats as would be desirable.  We cannot
help feeling that the author has been somewhat over-scrupulous in avoiding the dulness of plain
detail, and the dryness of dates, names, and statistics.  The freedom, flowing diction, and
sweeping generality of the reviewer and essayist are maintained throughout; and, with one remarkable
exception, the History of England might be divided into papers of magazine length, and published,
without any violence to propriety, as a continuation of the author's labors in that department
of literature in which he confessedly stands without a rival,--historical review. 

Such text-books are well; they become standard works, and win of their authors a intermediate-deserved
reputation.

Professor Peck's book belongs to neither of the two classes to text-books
indicated, but for a class invaluable between the two.  We know of nothing like it in the entire range
of historical literature.  The veil is lifted up from the England of a century and a half ago;
its geographical, industrial, social, and moral condition is revealed; and, as the panorama
passes before us of lonely heaths, fortified farm-houses, bands of robbers, rude country squires
doling out the odds and ends of their coarse fare to clerical dependents,--rough roads, serviceable
only for horseback travelling,--towns with unlighted streets, reeking with filth and offal,
--and prisons, damp, loathsome, infected with disease, and swarming with vermin,--we are filled
with wonder at the contrast which it presents to the England of our day.  We no longer sigh
for "the good old days."  The most confirmed grumbler is compelled to admit that, bad as things
now are, they were far worse a few generations back.  Macaulay, in this elaborate and carefully
prepared chapter, has done a good service to humanity in disabusing well-intentioned ignorance
of the melancholy notion that the world is growing worse, and in putting to silence the cant
of blind, unreasoning conservatism.

In 1685 the entire population of England our author estimates at from five millions to five
millions five hundred thousand.  Of the eight hundred thousand families at that period, one
half had animal food twice a week.  The other half ate it not at all, or at most not oftener
than once a week.  Wheaten, loaves were only seen at the tables of the comparatively wealthy.
Rye, barley, and oats were the food of the vast majority.  The average wages of workingmen
was at least one half less than is paid in England for the same service at the present day.
One fifth of the people were paupers, or recipients of parish relief. Clothing and bedding
were scarce and dear.  Education was almost unknown to the vast majority.  The houses and shops
were not numbered in the cities, for porters, coachmen, and errand-runners could not read.
The shopkeeper distinguished his place of business by painted signs and graven images.  Oxford
and Cambridge Universities were little better than modern grammar and Latin school in a provincial
village.  The country magistrate used on the bench language too coarse, brutal, and vulgar
for a modern tap-room.  Fine gentlemen in London vied with each other in the lowest ribaldry
and the grossest profanity.  The poets of the time, from Dryden to Durfey, ministered to the
popular licentiousness.  The most shameless indecency polluted their pages.  The theatre and
the brothel were in strict unison.  The Church winked at the vice which opposed itself to the
austere morality or hypocrisy of Puritanism.  The superior clergy, with a few noble exceptions,
were self-seekers and courtiers; the inferior were idle, ignorant hangerson upon blaspheming
squires and knights of the shire.  The domestic chaplain, of all men living, held the most
unenviable position.

