When the girl was brought to him, he led her into a room full of straw, gave her a spinning-wheel
and spindle, and said, "Now set to work and spin all night, and if by early dawn you haven't
spun the straw into gold you shall die." Then he closed the door behind him and left her alone
inside.

So the poor miller's daughter sat down. She hadn't the least idea of how to spin straw into
gold, and at last she began to cry. Suddenly the door opened, and in stepped a tiny little
man who said: "Good evening, Miss Miller-maid; why are you crying so bitterly?"

"Oh!" answered the girl, "I have to spin straw into gold, and haven't the slightest notion
how it's done." "What will you give me if I spin it for you?" asked the manikin.

"My necklace," replied the girl.

The little man took the necklace, sat down at the wheel, and whir, whir, whir, round it went
until morning, when all the straw was spun away, and all the bobbins were full of gold.

As soon as the sun rose, the King came, and when he saw the gold he was astonished and delighted,
but he wanted more of the precious metal. He had the miller's daughter put into another room,
much bigger than the first and full of straw, and bade her, if she valued her life, spin it
all into gold before morning.

When the girl began to cry the tiny little man appeared again and said: "What'll you give me
if I spin the straw into gold for you?"

"The ring from my finger," answered the girl. The manikin took the ring, and when morning broke
he had spun all the straw into glittering gold.

The King was pleased beyond measure at the sight, but he was still not satisfied, and he had
the miller's daughter brought into a yet bigger room full of straw, and said:

"You must spin all this away in the night; but if you succeed this time you shall become my wife."

When the girl was alone, the little man appeared for the third time, and said: "What'll you
give me if I spin the straw for you this third time?"

"I've nothing more to give," answered the girl.

"Then promise me when you are Queen to give me your first child."

Seeing no other way out of it, she promised the manikin, and he set to work.

When the King came in the morning, and found the gold, he straightway made her his wife. When
a beautiful son was born to her, she did not think of the little man, till all of a sudden
one day he stepped into her room and said: "Now give me what you promised."

The Queen offered the little man all the riches in her kingdom if he would only leave her the
child.

But the manikin said, "No, a living creature is dearer to me than all the treasures in the world."

Then the Queen began to cry and sob so bitterly that the little man was sorry for her, and
said, "I'll give you three days, and if in that time you guess my name, you may keep your child."

The Queen pondered the whole night over all the names she had ever heard, and sent messengers
to scour the land, and to pick up far and near any names they should come across. When the
little man arrived she began with Kasper, Melchior, Belshazzer, Sheepshanks, Cruickshanks,
Spindleshanks, and so on through the long list. At every name the little man shook his head.

At last a messenger reported, "As I came upon a high hill round the corner of the wood, where
the foxes and hares bid each other good-night, I saw a little house, and in front of the house
burned a fire, and round the fire sprang the most grotesque little man, hopping on one leg
and crying,

     'Tomorrow I brew, today I bake,
      And then the child away I'll take;
      For little deems my royal dame
      That Rumpelstiltzken is my name!'"

When the little man stepped in afterward and asked his name she said, "Is your name Conrad?"

"No."

"Is your name, perhaps, Rumpelstiltzken?"

"Some demon has told you that, some demon has told you that," screamed the little man, as he
vanished into the air.

THE MIRROR OF MATSUYANA

The following pretty little story comes from Japan, where it may be found in a collection of
tales for children. A long time ago a young couple lived in the country with their only child,
a beautiful little girl whom they loved tenderly. The names of the parents cannot be told now,
for they have long been forgotten, but we know that the place where they lived was Matsuyana,
in the province of Echigo.

Now it happened when the child was still very little that her father was obliged to go to the
capital of the kingdom. As it was so long a journey, neither his wife nor his child could go
with him and he departed alone, promising to bring them many pretty gifts on his return.

The mother had never been away from the neighborhood and was not able to get rid of some fear
when she thought of the long journey her husband must take. At the same time, however, she
could not but feel pride and satisfaction that it was her husband who was the first man in
all that region to go to the rich city where the king and the nobles lived, and where there
were so many beautiful and marvelous things to be seen.

At last, when the good wife knew that her husband would return, she dressed her child gaily
in the best clothes she had and herself in the blue dress that she knew he liked very much.

It is not possible to describe the joy of the good woman when she saw her husband return safe
and sound. The little one clapped her hands and laughed with delight when she saw the toys
her father had brought, and he never tired of telling of the wonderful things he had seen on
his journey and at the capital.

"To you," he said to his wife, "I have brought a thing of wonderful power, that is called a
mirror. Look and tell me what you see inside." He handed her a little flat box of white wood,
and when she opened it she saw a metal disk. One side was white as frosted silver and ornamented
with birds and flowers raised from the surface; the other side was shining and polished like
a window-pane. Into this the young wife gazed with pleasure and astonishment, for from the
depths she saw looking out at her a smiling face with parted lips and animated eyes. "What
do you see?" repeated the husband, charmed by her amazement and proud to prove that he had
remembered her in his absence.

"I see a pretty young woman, who looks at me and moves her lips as if talking, and who wears--what
a wonderful thing! a blue dress exactly like mine."

"Silly one! What you see is your own sweet face," replied the man, delighted to know that his
wife did not recognize herself. "This circle of metal is called a looking-glass. In the city,
every woman has one, although here in the country no one has seen one until to-day."

Enchanted with her gift, the woman passed several days in wonderment, because, as I have said,
this was the first time she had seen a mirror, and consequently the first time she had seen
the image of her own pretty face. This wonderful jewel she thought too precious to be used
every day, and the little box she guarded carefully, concealing it among her most precious
treasures.

Years passed, the good man and his wife living happily through them all. The delight of his
life was the child, who was growing into the living image of her dear mother, and who was so
good and affectionate that everybody loved her.

The mother, remembering her own passing vanity over her beauty, kept the mirror hidden, to
protect her daughter from any chance of vanity. As for the father, no one had spoken of the
glass, and he had forgotten all about it. Thus the child grew up frank and guileless as her
mother wished, knowing nothing of her own beauty or what the mirror might reflect.

But there came a day of terrible misfortune to this family, till then so happy. The devoted
and loving mother fell sick, and although her daughter watched her with affectionate and tender
devotion, the dear woman grew worse and worse each day.

When she knew that she must soon pass away, she was very sad, grieving for husband and daughter
that she must leave behind on earth; and especially was she anxious for the future of her loving
daughter. Calling the girl to the bedside, she said:

"My beloved child, you see that I am so very sick that soon I must die and leave you and your
father alone. Promise me that when I am gone, every morning when you get up and every night
when you go to bed, you will look into the mirror which your father gave me long ago. In it,
you will see me smiling back at you, and you will know that I am ever near to protect you."

Having spoken these words, she pointed to the place where the mirror was hidden, and the girl,
with tears on her cheeks, promised to do as her mother wished. Tranquil and resigned, the mother
then passed quickly away.

The dutiful daughter, never forgetting her mother's wishes, each morning and evening took the
glass from the place where it was hidden and gazed at it intently for a long time. There she
saw the face of her dead mother brilliant and smiling, not pallid and ill as it was in her
last days, but young and beautiful. To this vision each night she confided the troubles and
little faults of the day, looking to it for help and encouragement in doing her duty. In this
manner the girl grew up as if watched over and helped by a living presence, trying always to
do nothing that could grieve or annoy her sainted mother. Her greatest pleasure was to look
into the mirror and feel that she could truthfully say: "Mother, to-day I have been as you
wished that I should be."

After a time the father observed that his daughter looked lovingly into the mirror every morning
and every evening, and appeared to converse with it. Wondering, he asked her the cause of her
strange behavior. The girl replied:

"Father, I look every day into the glass to see my dear mother and to speak with her."

She then related to him the last wishes of her dying mother, and assured him that she had never
failed to comply with them.

Wondering at such simplicity and loving obedience, the father shed tears of pity and affection.
Nor did he ever find the heart to explain to the loving daughter that the image she saw in
the mirror was but the reflection of her own beautiful face. Thus, by the pure white bond of
her filial love, each day the charming girl grew more and more like her dead mother.

A CONTRAST

Light blue eyes: Flaxen hair; Rosy cheeks-- Dimples there! These are Baby's.

Pudgy fists; Ruddy toes; Kissy lips-- Mother knows! These are Baby's.

Cooing voice; Winning smiles; Pleading arms-- Wanton wiles! These are Baby's.

Yearning love; Growing fears; Grief and worry-- All the years. These are Mother's.

THE GOLDEN TOUCH

By Nathaniel Hawthorne

Once upon a time there lived a very rich man, and a king besides, whose name was Midas; and
he had a little daughter whom nobody but myself ever heard of, and whose name I either never
knew or have entirely forgotten. So, because I love odd names for little girls, I choose to
call her Marygold.

This King Midas was fonder of gold than of anything else in the world. He valued his royal
crown chiefly because it was composed of that precious metal. If he loved anything better or
half so well, it was the one little maiden who played so merrily around her father's footstool.
But the more Midas loved his daughter, the more did he desire and seek for wealth. He thought,
foolish man! that the best thing he could possibly do for this dear child would be to bequeath
her the immensest pile of yellow, glistening coin that had ever been heaped together since
the world was made. Thus he gave all his thoughts and all his time to this one purpose. If
he ever happened to gaze for an instant at the gold-tinted clouds of sunset, he wished that
they were real gold and that they could be squeezed safely into his strong box.

When little Marygold ran to meet him with a bunch of buttercups and dandelions, he used to
say, "Pooh, pooh, child! If these flowers were as golden as they look, they would be worth
the plucking!"

And yet in his earlier days, before he was so entirely possessed with this insane desire for
riches, King Midas had shown a great taste for flowers. He had planted a garden in which grew
the biggest and beautifulest and sweetest roses that any mortal ever saw or smelled. These
roses were still growing in the garden, as large, as lovely, and as fragrant as when Midas
used to pass whole hours in gazing at them and inhaling their perfume. But now, if he looked
at them at all, it was only to calculate how much the garden would be worth if each of the
innumerable rose-petals were a thin plate of gold. And though he once was fond of music (in
spite of an idle story about his ears, which were said to resemble those of an ass), the only
music for poor Midas now was the chink of one coin against another.

At length (as people always grow more and more foolish unless they take care to grow wiser
and wiser) Midas had got to be so exceedingly unreasonable that he could scarcely bear to see
or touch any object that was not gold. He made it his custom, therefore, to pass a large portion
of every day in a dark and dreary apartment underground, at the basement of his palace. It
was here that he kept his wealth. To this dismal hole- -for it was little better than a dungeon--Midas
betook himself whenever he wanted to be particularly happy. Here, after carefully locking the
door, he would take a bag of gold coin, or a gold cup as big as a washbowl, or a heavy golden
bar, or a peck measure of gold dust, and bring it from the obscure corners of the room into
the one bright and narrow sunbeam that fell from the dungeon-like window. He valued the sunbeam
for no other reason but that his treasure would not shine without its help. And then would
he reckon over the coins in the bag, toss up the bar and catch it as it came down, sift the
gold dust through his fingers, look at the funny image of his own face as reflected in the
burnished circumference of the cup, and whisper to himself, "O Midas, rich King Midas, what
a happy man art thou!" But it was laughable to see how the image of his face kept grinning
at him out of the polished surface of the cup. It seemed to be aware of his foolish behavior,
and to have a naughty inclination to make fun of him.

Midas called himself a happy man, but felt that he was not yet quite so happy as he might be.
The very tip-top of enjoyment would never be reached unless the whole world were to become
his treasure-room and be filled with yellow metal which should be all his own.

Now, I need hardly remind such wise little people as you are that in the old, old times, when
King Midas was alive, a great many things came to pass which we should consider wonderful if
they were to happen in our own day and country. And, on the other hand, a great many things
take place nowadays which seem not only wonderful to us, but at which the people of old times
would have stared their eyes out. On the whole, I regard our own times as the stranger of the
two; but, however that may be, I must go on with my story.

Midas was enjoying himself in his treasure-room one day as usual, when he perceived a shadow
fall over the heaps of gold, and, looking suddenly up, what should he behold but the figure
of a stranger standing in the bright and narrow sunbeam! It was a young man with a cheerful
and ruddy face. Whether it was the imagination of King Midas threw a yellow tinge over everything,
or whatever the cause might be, he could not help fancying that the smile with which the stranger
regarded him had a kind of golden radiance in it. Certainly, although his figure intercepted
the sunshine, there was now a brighter gleam upon all the piled-up treasures than before. Even
the remotest corners had their share of it, and were lighted up, when the stranger smiled,
as with tips of flame and sparkles of fire.

As Midas knew that he had carefully turned the key in the lock, and that no mortal strength
could possibly break into his treasure-room, he of course concluded that his visitor must be
something more than mortal. It is no matter about telling you who he was. In those days, when
the earth was comparatively a new affair, it was supposed to be often the resort of beings
endowed with supernatural powers, who used to interest themselves in the joys and sorrows of
men, women, and children half playfully and half seriously. Midas had met such beings before
now, and was not sorry to meet one of them again. The stranger's aspect, indeed, was so good-humored
and kindly, if not beneficent, that it would have been unreasonable to suspect him of intending
any mischief. It was far more probable that he came to do Midas a favor. What could that favor
be unless to multiply his heaps of treasure?

The stranger gazed about the room, and when his lustrous smile had glistened upon all the golden
objects that were there, he turned again to Midas.

"You are a wealthy man, friend Midas," he observed. "I doubt whether any other four walls on
earth contain so much gold as you have contrived to pile up in this room."

"I have done pretty well--pretty well," answered Midas in a discontented tone. "But, after
all, it is but a trifle when you consider that it has taken me my whole life to get it together.
If one could live a thousand years, he might have time to grow rich."

"What!" exclaimed the stranger. "Then you are not satisfied?"

Midas shook his head.

"And pray what would satisfy you?" asked the stranger. "Merely for the curiosity of the thing,
I should be glad to know."

Midas paused and meditated. He felt a presentiment that this stranger, with such a golden luster
in his good-humored smile, had come hither with both the power and the purpose of gratifying
his utmost wishes. Now, therefore, was the fortunate moment when he had but to speak and obtain
whatever possible or seemingly impossible thing it might come into his head to ask.

So he thought, and thought, and thought, and heaped up one golden mountain upon another in
his imagination, without being able to imagine them big enough. At last a bright idea occurred
to King Midas. It seemed really as bright as the glistening metal which he loved so much.

Raising his head, he looked the lustrous stranger in the face.

"Well, Midas," observed his visitor, "I see that you have at length hit upon something that
will satisfy you. Tell me your wish."

"It is only this," replied Midas. "I am weary of collecting my treasures with so much trouble,
and beholding the heap so diminutive after I have done my best. I wish everything that I touch
to be changed to gold."

The stranger's smile grew so very broad that it seemed to fill the room like an outburst of
the sun gleaming into a shadowy dell where the yellow autumnal leaves--for so looked the lumps
and particles of gold-- lie strewn in the glow of light.

"The Golden Touch!" exclaimed he. "You certainly deserve credit, friend Midas, for striking
out so brilliant a conception. But are you quite sure that this will satisfy you?"

"How could it fail?" said Midas.

"And will you never regret the possession of it?"

"What could induce me?" asked Midas. "I ask nothing else to render me perfectly happy."

"Be it as you wish, then," replied the stranger, waving his hand in token of farewell. "To-morrow
at sunrise you will find yourself gifted with the Golden Touch."

