How she hated the word!--how she hated the associations linked with it, and with the names
on the boxes. They were bound up with a score of humbling memories, the memories of her shabby,
struggling youth. She thought of her father--the needy English artist, Robert Smeath, with
just a streak, and no more than a streak, of talent, who had become rapidly "Italianate" in
the Elizabethan sense--had dropped, that is, the English virtues, without ever acquiring the
Italian. He had married her mother, a Florentine girl, the daughter of a small impiegato living
in one of the dismal new streets leading out of Florence on the east, and had then pursued
a shifting course between the two worlds, the English and the Italian, ordering his household
and bringing up his children in Italian fashion, while he was earning his keep and theirs,
not at all by the showy pictures in his studio which no one would buy, but as jackal in antichità,
to the richer English and American tourists. He kept a greedy eye on the artistic possessions
still remaining in the hands of impoverished native owners; he knew the exact moment of debt
and difficulty in which to bring a foreign gold to bear; he was an adept in all the arts by
which officials are bribed, and pictures are smuggled. And sometimes these accomplishments
of his resulted in large accessions of cash, so that all the family lived on the fat of the
land, bought gorgeous attire, and went to Livorno, or Viareggio, or the Adriatic coast, for
the summer. And sometimes there was no luck, and therefore no money. Owners became unkindly
patriotic and would not sell. Or some promising buyer, after nibbling for months, went off
finally unhooked. Then the apartment in the Via Giugno showed the stress of hard times. The
girls wore their old clothes to rags; the mother did all the work of the house in a bedgown
and slippers; and the door of the apartment was never opened more than a few inches to any
applicant, lest creditors should get in.

And the golden intervals got fewer, and the poverty more persistent, as the years went on.
Till at last, by the providence--or malice--of the gods, a rich and apparently prodigal Englishman,
Edmund Melrose, hungry for antichità of all sorts, arrived on the scene. Smeath became rapidly
the bond-slave of Melrose, in the matter of works of art. The two made endless expeditions
together to small provincial towns, to remote villas in the Apuan or Pisan Alps, to palazzi
in Verona, or Lucca, or Siena. Melrose indeed had not been long in finding out that the little
artist was both a poor judge and a bad agent. Netta's cheek always flamed when she thought
of her father's boastings and blunderings, and of the way in which Edmund had come to treat
him. And now the Smeath family were just as poor as ever again. Her little sisters had scarcely
a dress to their backs; and she was certain her mother was both half-starved and over-worked.
Edmund had not been at all kind to them since her marriage--not at all!

How had he come to marry her? She was well aware that it was an extraordinary proceeding on
his part. He was well born on both sides, and, by common report among the English residents
in Florence, enormously rich, though his miserly habits had been very evident even in the first
days of their acquaintance. He might no doubt have married anybody he pleased; if he would
only have taken the trouble. But nothing would induce him to take any trouble--socially. He
resented the demands and standards of his equals; turned his back entirely on normal English
society at home and abroad; and preferred, it seemed, to live with his inferiors, where his
manners might be as casual, and his dress as careless as he pleased. The queer evenings and
the queer people in their horrid little flat had really amused him. Then he had been ill, and
mama had nursed him; and she, Netta, had taken him a pot of carnations while he was still laid
up; and so on. She had been really pretty in those days; much prettier than she had ever been
since the baby's birth. She had been attractive too, simply because she was young, healthy,
talkative, and forthcoming; goaded always by the hope of marriage, and money, and escape from
home. His wooing had been of the most despotical and patronizing kind; not the kind that a
proud girl would have put up with. Still there had been wooing; a few presents; a frugal cheque
for the trousseau; and a honeymoon fortnight at Sorrento.

Why had he done it?--just for a whim?--or to spite his English family, some member of which
would occasionally turn up in Florence and try to put in claims upon him--claims which infuriated
him? He was the most wilful and incalculable of men; caring nothing, apparently, one day for
position and conventionality, and boasting extravagantly of his family and ancestors the next.

"He was rather fond of me--for a little," she thought to herself wearily, as she stood at the
hall window, looking out into the rain. At the point which things had now reached she knew
very well that she meant nothing at all to him. He would not beat her, or starve her, or even,
perhaps, desert her. Such behaviour would disturb his existence as much as hers; and he did
not mean to be disturbed. She might go her own way--she and the child; he would give her food
and lodging and clothes, of a sort, so long as she did not interfere with his tastes, or spend
his money.

Then, suddenly, while she stood wrathfully pondering, a gust of anger rose--childish anger,
such as she had shown the night before, when she had tried to get out of the carriage. She
turned, ran down the corridor to the door which she understood was the door of his study--and
entered with a burst.

"Edmund!--I want to speak to you!"

Melrose, who was hanging, frowning and absorbed, over a carpenter who was freeing what seemed
to be an old clock from the elaborate swathings of paper and straw in which it had been packed,
looked up with annoyance.

"Can't you see, Netta, that I'm very busy?"

"I can't help it!--it's about baby."

With a muttered "D--n!" Melrose came toward her.

"What on earth do you want?"

Netta looked at him defiantly.

"I want to be told whenever the cart goes into Pengarth--there were lots of things to get for
baby. And I must have something here that I can drive myself. We can't be cut off from everything."

"Give your orders to Mrs. Dixon then about the cart," said Melrose angrily. "What has it to
do with me? As for a carriage, I have no money to spend on any nonsense of the kind. We can
do perfectly well without it."

"I only want a little pony-cart--you could get it second-hand for ten or twelve pounds--and
the farmer has got a pony."

She looked at him--sallow, and frowning.

Melrose pushed her into the passage and drew the door to, behind him, so that the carpenter
might not hear.

"Ten or twelve pounds! Do you expect I get money off the hedges? Can't you be content here
like a reasonable woman, without getting me into debt?"

Netta laughed and tossed her head.

"You shouldn't leave your business letters about!"

"What do you mean?"

"There was a cheque among your papers one day last week!--I saw it before you could hide it
away. It was for £3,000--a dividend from something--a coal mine, I think. And the week before
you had another--"

Her husband's eyes shed lightnings.

"I'll not have you prying into my affairs!" he said violently. "All I have is wanted--and more."

"And nothing of course--to give me--your wife!--for any comforts or pleasures! That never enters
into your head!"

Her voice came thickly already. Her chest began to heave.

"There now--crying again!" said Melrose, turning on his heel. "Can't you sometimes thank your
stars you're not starving in Florence, and just put up with things a little?"

Netta restrained herself.

"So I would"--she said, choking--"if--"

"If what--"

For all answer, she turned and hurried away toward the hall. Melrose looked after her with
what appeared like exasperation, then suddenly recaptured himself, smoothed his brow, and,
returning to the study, gave himself with unruffled zest and composure to the task of unpacking
the Boule clock.

Netta repaired to the drawing-room, and threw herself on to the uncomfortable sofa, struggling
with her tears. For about a fortnight after her marriage she had imagined herself in love with
Melrose; then when the personal illusion was gone, the illusion of position and wealth persisted.
He might be queer, and behave queerly in Italy. But when they returned to England she would
find herself the wife of a rich English gentleman, and the gingerbread would once more be gilt.
Alack! a few weeks in a poor London Lodging with no money to spend on the shops which tempted
her woman's cupidity at every step; Edmund's final refusal, first laughing, then stubborn,
to present her to "my devilish relations"; the complete indifference shown to her wishes as
to the furnishings of the Tower; these various happenings had at last brought her to an unwelcome
commerce with the bare truth. She had married a selfish eccentric, who had chosen her for a
caprice and was now tired of her. She had not a farthing, nor any art or skill by which to
earn one. Her family was as penniless as herself. There was nothing for it but to submit. But
her temper and spirits had begun steadily to give way.

Firenze! As she sat in her cheerless drawing-room, hating its ugly shabbiness, and penetrated
with the damp chill of the house, there swept through her a vision of the Piazza del Duomo,
as she had last seen it on a hot September evening. A blaze of light--delicious all-prevailing
warmth--the moist bronzed faces of the men--the girls with the look of physical content that
comes in hot countries with the evening--the sun flooding with its last gold, now the new marbles
of the facciata, now the alabaster and bronze of the Baptistery, and now the moving crowds--the
flowers-baskets--the pigeons--

She lifted her eyes with a sobbing breath, and saw the gray cloud-curtain--the neglected garden--the
solitary pony in the field--with the shafts of rain striking across it. Despair stirred in
her--the physical nostalgia of the south. A happy heart might have silenced the craving nerves;
but hers was far from happy.

The door opened. A head was thrust in--the head of a fair-haired girl. There was a pause.

"What do you want?" said Mrs. Melrose, haughtily, determined to assert herself.

Thyrza came in slowly. She held a bunch of dripping Michaelmas daisies.

"Shall I get a glass for them? I thowt mebbe you'd like 'em in here."

Netta thanked her ungraciously. She remembered having seen the girl the night before, and Anastasia
had mentioned her as the daughter of the Contadino.

Thyrza put the flowers in water, Netta watching her in silence; then going into the hall, she
returned with a pair of white lace curtains.

"Shall I put 'em up? It 'ud mebbe be more cheerful."

Netta looked at them languidly.

"Where do they come from?"

"Mr. Tyson brought 'em from Pengarth. He thowt you might like 'em for the drawing-room."

Mrs. Melrose nodded, and Thyrza mounted a chair, and proceeded to put up the curtains, turning
an observant eye now and then on the thin-faced lady sitting on the sofa, her long fingers
clasped round her knees, and her eyes--so large and staring as to be rather ugly than beautiful
in Thyrza's opinion--wandering absently round the room.

"It's a clashy day," Thyrza ventured at last.

"It's a dreadful day," said Mrs. Melrose sharply. "Does it always rain like this?"

"Well, it do rain," was Thyrza's cautious reply. "But there that's better than snowin'--for
t' shepherds."

Mrs. Melrose found the girl's voice pleasant, and could not deny that she was pretty, in her
rustic way.

"Has your father many sheep?"

"Aye, but they're all gone up to t' fells for t' winter. We had a grand time here in September--at
t' dippin'. Yo'd never ha' thowt there was so mony folk about"--the girl went on, civilly,
making talk.

"I never saw a single house, or a single light, on the drive from the station last night,"
said Mrs. Melrose, in her fretful voice. "Where are all the people?"

"Well, there ain't many!" laughed Thyrza. "It's a lonesome place this is. But when it's a shearin',
or a dippin', yo' unnerstand, farmin' folk'll coom a long way to help yan anuther."

"Are they all farmers about here?"

"Mostly. Well, there's Duddon Castle!" Thyrza's voice, a little muffled by the tin-tacks in
the mouth, came from somewhere near the top of a tall window--"Oh--an' I forgot!--"

In a great hurry the speaker jumped down from her perch, and to Netta's astonishment ran out
of the room.

"What is she about?" thought Mrs. Melrose irritably. But the question was hardly framed before
Thyrza reappeared, holding out her hand, in which lay some visiting-cards.

"I should ha' given them yo' before."

Mrs. Melrose took them with surprise, and read the name.

"Countess Tatham--who is she?"

"Why it's she that lives at Duddon Castle." Then the girl looked uncertainly at her companion--"Mr.
Tyson did tell me she was a relation of Mr. Melrose."

"A relation? I don't know anything about her," said Netta decidedly. "Did she come to call
upon me?"

The girl nodded--"She come over--it was last Tuesday--from Duddon, wi' two lovely horses--my,
they were beauties! She said she'd come again."

Netta asked questions. Lady Tatham, it seemed, was the great lady of the neighbourhood, and
Duddon Castle was a splendid old place, that all the visitors went to see. And there were her
cards. Netta's thoughts began to hurry thither and thither, and possibilities began to rise.
A relation of Edmund's? She made Thyrza tell her all she knew about Duddon and the Tathams.
Visions of being received there, of meeting rich and aristocratic people, of taking her place
at last in society, the place that belonged to her as Edmund's wife, in spite of his queer
miserly ways, ran again lightly through a mind that often harboured such dreams before--in
vain. Her brow cleared. She made Thyrza leave the curtains, and sit down to gossip with her.
And Thyrza, though perfectly conscious, as the daughter of a hard-working race, that to sit
gossiping at midday was a sinful thing, was none the less willing to sin; and she chattered
on in a Westmoreland dialect that grew steadily broader as she felt herself more at ease, till
Mrs. Melrose could scarcely follow her.

But she managed to seize on the facts that concerned her. Lady Tatham, it seemed, was a widow,
with an only boy, a lad of seven, who was the heir to Duddon Castle, and its great estates.
The Castle was ten miles from the Tower.

"How shall I ever get there?" thought Mrs. Melrose, despairingly.

As to other neighbours, they seemed to consist entirely of an old bachelor doctor, about three
miles away, and the clergyman of Gimmers Wick and his wife. She was sure to come. But most
people were "glad to see the back on her." She had such a poor spirit, and was always complaining.

In the midst of this conversation, the door of the room, which was ajar, slowly opened. Thyrza
looked round and saw in the aperture a tiny white figure. It was the Melrose baby, standing
silent, wide-eyed, with its fingers in its mouth, and Anastasia behind it. Anastasia, whose
look was still thunderous, explained that she was unpacking and could not do with it. The child
toddled in to its mother, and Thyrza exclaimed in admiration:

"Oh, you are a little beauty!"

And she caught up one of the brass curtain rings lying on the table, and tried to attract the
baby with it. But the little thing took not the smallest notice of the lure. She went straight
to her mother, and, leaning against Netta's knee, she turned to stare at Thyrza with an intensity
of expression, rare in a child so young. Thyrza, kneeling on the floor, stared back--fascinated.
She thought she had never seen anything so lovely. The child had her father's features, etherealized;
and great eyes, like her mother, but far more subtly beautiful. Her skin was pale, but of such
a texture that Thyrza's roses-and-milk looked rough and common beside it. Every inch of the
proud little head was covered with close short curls leaving the white neck free, and the hand
lifted to her mouth was of a waxen delicacy.

Netta opened a picture-book that Anastasia had brought down with her. Felicia pushed it away.
Netta opened it again. Then the child, snatching it from her, sat down on the floor, and, before
Netta could prevent her, tore one of the pages across with a quick, vindictive movement--her
eyes sparkling.

"Naughty--! naughty!" said Netta in a scolding voice.

But Thyrza dropped her hand hastily into a gray calico pocket tied round her waist, and again
held out something.

"It is only a pear-drop," she said apologetically to Netta. "It won't hurt her."

Felicia snatched at it at once, and sucked it, still flushed with passion. Her mother smiled
faintly.

"You like sweets?" she said, childishly, to her companion; "give me one?"

Thyrza eagerly brought out a paper bag from her pocket and Netta put out a pair of thin fingers.
She and her sisters had been great consumers of sweet stuff in the small dark Florentine shops.
The shared greediness promoted friendship; and by the time Mrs. Dixon put in a reproachful
face with a loud--"Thyrza, what be you a doin'?"--Mrs. Melrose knew as much of the Tower, the
estate, the farm, and the persons connected with them, as Thyrza's chattering tongue could
tell her in the time.

There was nothing, however, very consoling in the information. When Thyrza departed, Mrs. Melrose
was left to fret and sigh much as before. The place was odious; she could never endure it.
But yet the possible advent of "Countess Tatham" cast a faint ray on the future.

A few days later Lady Tatham appeared. Melrose had been particularly perverse and uncommunicative
on the subject. "Like her audacity!"--so Netta had understood his muttered comment, when she
took him the cards. He admitted that the lady and he were cousins--the children of first cousins;
and that he had once seen a good deal of her. He called her "an audacious woman"; but Mrs.
Melrose noticed that he did not forbid her the house; nay, rather that he listened with some
attention to Thyrza's report that the lady had promised to call again.

On the afternoon of the call, the skies were clear of rain, though not of cloud. The great
gashed mountain to the north which Dixon called Saddleback, while a little Cumbria "guide,"
produced by Tyson, called it Blencathra, showed sombrely in a gray light; and a November wind
was busy stripping what leaves still remained from the woods by the stream and in the hollows
of the mountain. Landscape and heavens were of an iron bracingness and bareness; and the beauty
in them was not for eyes like Netta's. She had wandered out forlornly on the dank paths descending
to the stream. Edmund as usual was interminably busy fitting up one of the lower rooms for
some of his minor bric-à-brac--ironwork, small bronzes, watches, and clocks. Anastasia and
the baby were out.

Would Anastasia stay? Already she looked ill; she complained of her chest. She had made up
her mind to come with the Melroses for the sake of her mother and sister in Rome, who were
so miserably poor. Netta felt that she--the mistress--had some security against losing her,
in the mere length and cost of the journey. To go home now, before the end of her three months,
would swallow up all the nurse had earned; for Edmund would never contribute a farthing. Poor
Anastasia! And yet Netta felt angrily toward her for wishing to desert them.

"For of course I shall take her home--in March. We shall all be going then," she said to herself
with an emphasis, almost a passion, which yet was full of misgiving.

Suddenly, just as she had returned by a steep path to the dilapidated terrace on the north
side of the house--a sound of horses' feet and wheels. Evidently a carriage--a caller. Netta's
pulse fluttered. She ran into the house by a side door, and up to her room, where she smoothed
her hair anxiously, and lightly powdered her face. There was no time to change her dress, but
she took out a feather boa which she kept for great occasions, and prepared to descend with
dignity. Oh the stairs she met Mrs. Dixon, who announced "Lady Tatham."

"Find Mr. Melrose, please."

"Oh, he's there, Ma'am, awready."

Netta entered the drawing-room to see her husband pacing up and-down before a strange lady,
who sat in one of the crimson armchairs, entirely at her ease.

"So this is your wife, Edmund," said Lady Tatham, as she rose.

"It is. You'll make mock of her no doubt--as you do of me."

"Nonsense! I never make mock of anybody," said a musical voice, rich however through all its
music in a rather formidable significance. The owner of it turned toward Netta.

"I hope, Mrs. Melrose, that you will like Cumbria?"

Netta, accustomed to Edmund's "queerness," and determined to hold her own, settled herself
deliberately opposite her visitor, and was soon complaining in her shrill voice of the loneliness
of the place and the damp of the climate. Melrose never once looked at his wife. He was paler
than usual, with an eager combative aspect, quite new to Netta. He seemed for once to be unsure
of his ground--both to expect attack, even to provoke it--and to shrink from it. His eyes were
fixed upon Lady Tatham, and followed her every movement.

Attention was certainly that lady's due; and it failed her rarely. She had beauty--great beauty;
and a personality that refused to be overlooked. Her dress showed in equal measure contempt
for mere fashion, and a close study of effect. The lines of her long cloak of dull blue cloth,
with its garnishings of sable, matched her stately slenderness well; and the close-fitting
cap over the coiled hair conveyed the same impression of something perfectly contrived and
wholly successful. Netta thought at first that she was "made up," so dazzling was the white
and pink, and then doubted. The beauty of the face reminded one, perhaps, of the beauty of
a boy--of some clear-eyed, long-chinned athlete--masterfully simple--a careless conqueror.

How well she and Edmund seemed to know each other! That was the strange, strange thing in Netta's
eyes. Presently she sat altogether silent while they talked. Melrose still walking up and down--casting
quick glances at his guest. Lady Tatham gave what seemed to be family news--how "John" had
been sent to Teheran--and "George" was to be military secretary in Dublin--and "Barbara" to
the astonishment of everybody had consented to be made a Woman of the Bedchamber--"poor Queen!"--how
Reginald Pratt had been handsomely turned out of the Middleswick seat, and was probably going
to "rat" to an Opposition that promised more than the Government--that Cecilia's eldest girl--"a
pretty little minx"--had been already presented, and was likely to prove as skilful a campaigner
for a husband as her mother before her--that "Gerald" had lost heavily at Newmarket, and was
now a financial nuisance, borrowing from everybody in the family--and so on, and so on.

Melrose received these various items of information half scornfully, half greedily; it might
have been guessed that his interest in the teller was a good deal keener than his interest
in the things told. The conversation revealed to Netta phases in her husband's existence wholly
unknown to her. So Edmund had been in Rome--for two or three years--in the Embassy! That she
had never known. He seemed also to have been an English member of Parliament for a time. In
any case he had lived, apparently for years, like other men of his kind--shooting, racing,
visiting, travelling, fighting, elections. She could not fit the facts to which both alluded
with her own recollections of the misanthrope who had first made acquaintance with her and
her family in Florence three years before this date; and her bewilderment grew.

As for the others, they had soon, it seemed, completely forgotten the thin sallow-faced wife,
who sat with her back to the window, restlessly twisting her rings.

Presently Melrose stopped abruptly--in front of Lady Tatham.

"Where is Edith?" He bent forward peremptorily, his hand on the table, his eyes on the lady's face.

"At the Cape with her husband."

"Has she found him out yet?"

"There's nothing to find out. He's an excellent fellow."

"A stupid prig," said Melrose passionately. "Well, you did it!--You did it!"

"Yes, I did it." Lady Tatham rose quietly. She had paled, and after a minute's hesitation she
held out her hand to Melrose. "Suppose, Edmund, we bury the hatchet. I should like to be friends
with you and your wife, if you would allow it?"

The change of manner was striking. Up to this moment Lady Tatham had been, so to speak, the
aggressor, venturing audaciously on ground which she knew to be hostile--from bravado?--or
for some hidden reason? But she spoke now with seriousness--even with a touch of womanly kindness.

Melrose looked at her furiously.

"Lady Tatham, I advise you to leave us alone!"

She sighed, met his eyes a moment, gravely, then turned to Netta.

"Mrs. Melrose, your husband and I have an old quarrel. He wanted to marry my sister. I prevented
it. She is married now--and he is married. Why shouldn't we make friends?"

"Quarrels are very foolish!" said Netta, sententiously, straightening her small shoulders.
But she dared not look at Melrose.

"Well, tell him so," laughed Lady Tatham. "And come and see me at Duddon Castle."

"Thank you! I should like to!" cried Netta.

"My wife has no carriage, Lady Tatham."

"Oh, Edmund--we might hire something," said his wife imploringly.

"I do not permit it," he said resolutely. "Good-bye, Lady Tatham. You are like all women--you
think the cracked vase will hold water. It won't."

"What are you going to do here, Edmund?"

"I am a collector--and works of art amuse me."

"And I can do nothing--for you--or your wife?"

"Nothing. I am sorry if you feel us on your mind. Don't. I would have gone farther from you,
if I could. But seven miles--are seven miles."

Lady Tatham coloured. She shook hands with Netta.

Melrose held the door open for her. She swept through the hall, and hurried into her carriage.
She and Melrose touched hands ceremoniously, and the brougham with its fine roan horses was
soon out of sight.

A miserable quarrel followed between the husband and wife. Netta, dissolved in hysterical weeping,
protested that she was a prisoner and an exile, that Edmund had brought her from Italy to this
dreary place to kill her, that she couldn't and wouldn't endure it, and that return to Italy
she must and would, if she had to beg her way. It was cruel to shut her up in that awful house,
to deny her the means of getting about, to treat people who wished to be kind to her as Edmund
had treated Lady Tatham. She was not a mere caterpillar to be trodden on. She would appeal
to the neighbours--she would go home to her parents, etcetera--etcetera.

Melrose at first tried to check her by sarcasm--a banter that stung where it lit. But when
she would not be checked, when she followed him into his study, wailing and accusing, a whirlwind
of rage developed in the man, and he denounced her with a violence and a brutality which presently
cowed her. She ran shivering upstairs to Anastasia and the baby, bolted her door, and never
reappeared till, twenty-four hours later, she crept down white and silent, to find a certain
comfort in Thyrza's rough ministrations. Melrose seemed to be, perhaps, a trifle ashamed of
his behaviour; and they patched up a peace over the arrangements for the heating of the house
on which for once he had the grace to consult her.

The winter deepened, and Christmas came. On the mountain-tops the snow lay deep, and when Netta--who
on many days never left the house--after walking a while up and down the long corridor for
the sake of exercise, would sink languidly on the seat below its large western window, she
looked out upon a confusion of hills near and far, drawn in hard white upon an inky sky. To
the south the Helvellyn range stretched in bold-flung curves and bosses; in the far distance
rose the sharper peaks of Derwentwater; while close at hand Blencathra with its ravines, and
all the harsh splendour of its white slopes and black precipices, alternately fascinated and
repelled the little Southerner, starved morally and physically for lack of sun.

Even for Cumbria it was a chill and sunless winter. No bracing frosts, and persistent northwesterly
winds. Day after day the rain, which was snow on the heights, poured down. Derwentwater and
Bassenthwaite rose till they mingled in one vast lake. The streams thundered from the fells;
every road was a water-course.

Netta lost flesh and appetite. She was a discontented and ailing woman, and the Dixons could
not but notice her fragile state. Mrs. Dixon thought her "nobbut a silly sort of body," but
would sometimes try to cook what pleased her, or let Anastasia use the kitchen fire for "gnocchi"
or "risotto" or other queer messes; which, however, when they appeared, were generally more
relished by the master than the mistress.

Dixon, perceiving no signs of any desire on Netta's part to attend the "papish" chapel ten
miles away, began to plot for her soul. His own life was in the little Methodist chapel to
which he walked four miles every Sunday, wet or fine. In the summer he had accompanied the
minister and one or two class leaders in a drive through the hayfields, shouting to the haymakers--"We're
going to heaven!--won't you come with us!"--and he had been known to spend five hours at a
stretch on his knees wrestling for the salvation of a drunken friend, in the village of Threlkeld.
But Netta baffled him. Sometimes he would come home from chapel, radiant, and would take her
a bunch of holly for the table by way of getting into conversation with her. "It was fine to-day,
Missis! There was three found peace. And the congregation was grand! There was four attorneys--two
of 'em from as far as Pengarth." And he would lend her tracts--and even offer, good man, to
borrow a "shandrey" from a neighbour, and drive her himself to the chapel service. But Netta
only smiled or yawned at him; and as for the tracts, she hid them under the few sofa cushions
the house possessed.

Mr. Tyson, the agent, came to the house as seldom as he could, that he might not quarrel with
his employer before it was to his own interest to do so. Netta discovered that he pitied her;
and once or twice, drawing on the arts of flirtation, with which the Florentine woman is always
well acquainted, she complained to him of her loneliness and her husband's unkindness. But
his north-country caution protected him from any sentimentalizing, however innocent. And before
the end of the winter Netta detested him. Meanwhile she and Anastasia lived for one hope only.
From many indications it was plain that Melrose was going south in March. The women were determined
not to stay behind him. But, instinctively, they never raised the subject, so as not to risk
a struggle prematurely.

Meanwhile Melrose passed a winter wholly satisfactory to himself. The partial unpacking of
his collections was an endless source of amusement and pleasure. But his curious egotism showed
itself very plainly in the business. He made no attempt at artistic arrangement, though there
was some classification. As fast as one room was filled--the vacant packing-cases turned on
their sides, serving to exhibit what they had once contained--he would begin upon another.
And woe to Mrs. Dixon or Thyrza if they attempted any cleaning in one of his rooms! The collections
were for himself only, and for the few dealers or experts to whom he chose to show them. And
the more hugger-mugger they were, the less he should be pestered to let people in to see them.
Occasionally he would rush up to London to attend what he called a "high puff sale"--or to
an auction in one of the northern towns, and as he always bought largely, purchases kept arriving,
and the house at the end of the winter was in a scarcely less encumbered and disorderly condition
than it had been at the beginning. The few experts from the Continent or America, whom he did
admit, were never allowed a word of criticism of the collections. If they ventured to differ
from Melrose as to the genuineness or the age of a bronze or a marble, an explosion of temper
and a speedy dismissal awaited them.

One great stroke of luck befel him in February which for a time put him in high good-humour.
He bought at York--very cheaply--a small bronze Hermes, which some fifteenth-century documents
in his own possession, purchased from a Florentine family the year before, enabled him to identify
with great probability as the work of one of the rarest and most famous of the Renaissance
sculptors. He told no one outside the house, lest he should be plagued to exhibit it, but he
could not help boasting of it to Netta and Anastasia.

"That's what comes of having an eye! It's worth a thousand guineas of it's worth a penny. And
those stupid idiots let me have it for twenty-two pounds!"

"A thousand guineas!" Gradually the little bronze became to Netta the symbol of all that money
could have bought for her--and all she was denied; Italy, freedom, the small pleasures she
understood, and the salvation of her family, now in the direst poverty. There were moments
when she could have flung it passionately out of the window into the stream a hundred feet
below. But she was to find another use for it.

March arrived. And one day Anastasia came to tell her mistress that she had received orders
to pack Mr. Melrose's portmanteaus for departure.

Netta brooded all day, sitting silent and pale in the window-seat, with some embroidery which
she never touched on her knee. Outside, not a sign of spring! A bitter north wind was blowing
which had blanched all colour from the hills, and there was ice on the edges of the streams.
Thyrza was away in Carlisle, helping an aunt. There was no one in the house but Mrs. Dixon,
and a deaf old woman from one of the labourer's cottages; attached to the farm, who had come
in to help her. The poor babe had a cold, and could be heard fretfully crying and coughing
in her nursery.

And before Netta's inward eye there stretched the interminable days and weeks ahead, no less
than the interminable weeks and months she had already lived through, in this discomfort of
body, and this loneliness of spirit.

After supper she walked resolutely into her husband's littered study and demanded that she
and Anastasia and the baby should go with him to the Continent. He, she understood, would stop
in Paris. She and the child would push on to Florence, where she could stay the summer with
her people, at no greater cost than at the Tower. The change was necessary both for her and
Felicia, and go she would.

Melrose flatly and violently refused. What did she want better than the Tower? She had as much
service, and as much luxury as her antecedents entitled her to; and he neither could nor would
provide her with anything more. He was heavily in debt, and had no money to spend on railway
tickets. And he entirely disapproved of her relations, especially of her father, who might
any day find himself "run in" by the Italian authorities for illicit smuggling of pictures
out of the country. He declined to allow his child to become familiar with such a circle.

Netta listened to him with tight lips, her pale face strangely flushed. When she saw that her
appeal was quite fruitless she went away, and she and Anastasia sat up whispering together
far into the night.

Early next morning Melrose departed, leaving a letter for his wife, in which he informed her
that he had left money with Mr. Tyson for the household expenses, and for the few shillings
he supposed she would want as pocket money. He advised her to be out a great deal, and assured
her that the Cumbria summer, when it came, was delightful. And he signed himself "your affectionate
husband, Edmund Melrose."

Mrs. Dixon went into Pengarth for shopping on the fly which conveyed Melrose to the station,
and was to come out by carrier. After their departure there was no one left in the house but
the deaf old woman. Netta and her maid preceeded to carry out a plan they had been long maturing.
Anastasia had a few pounds left of her Christmas wages; enough to carry them to London; and
for the rest, they had imagined an excellent device.

The bronze Hermes had been left by Melrose in a cupboard in a locked room on the first floor.
When Mrs. Dixon came back that night, she discovered that Mrs. Melrose, with her child and
maid had quitted the house. They had apparently harnessed the cart and horse themselves, and
had driven into Pengarth, taking a labourer with them to bring the cart home. They had carried
all their personal belongings away with them; and, after a while, Mrs. Dixon, poking about,
discovered that the door of one of the locked rooms had been forced.

She also noticed, in one of the open drawers of Mrs. Melrose's bedroom, a photograph, evidently
forgotten, lying face downward. Examining it, she saw that it was a picture of Netta, with
the baby, taken apparently in Italy during the preceding summer. The Cumbrian woman, shrewdly
observant like all her race, was struck by the tragic differences between the woman of the
picture and the little blighted creature who had just made a flitting from the Tower.

She showed the photograph to her husband, returned it to the drawer, and thought no more about it.

News was of course sent to Mr. Melrose in Paris, and within three days he had come rushing
back to the Tower, beside himself with rage and grief, not at all, as George Tyson soon assured
himself, for the loss of his wife and child, but entirely for the theft of the priceless Florentine
bronze, a loss which he had suspected on the first receipt of the news of the forced door,
and verified at once on his arrival.

He stood positively aghast at Netta's perfidy and wickedness, and he wrote at once to the apartment
in the Via Giugno, to denounce her in the most emphatic terms. As she had chosen to steal one
of his most precious possessions, which she had of course converted into money, she had no
further claim on him whatever, and he broke off all relations with her. Eighty pounds a year
would be paid by his lawyers to a Florentine lawyer, whom he named, for his daughter's maintenance,
so long as Netta left him unmolested. But he desired to hear and see no more of persons who
reminded him of the most tragical event of his history as a collector, as well as of the utter
failure of his married life. Henceforth they were strangers to each other, and she might arrange
her future as she pleased.

The letter was answered by Mrs. Robert Smeath in the third person, and all communications ceased.
As a matter of fact the Smeath family were infinitely relieved by Melrose's letter, which showed
that he did not intend to take any police steps to recover the bronze or its value. Profiting
by the paternal traditions, Netta had managed the sale of the Hermes in London, where, owing
to Melrose's miserly hiding of it, it was quite unknown, with considerable skill. It had realized
a small fortune, and she had returned, weary, ill, but triumphant, to the apartment in the
Via Giugno.

Twelve months later, Melrose had practically forgotten that he had ever known her. He returned
for the winter, to Threlfall, and entered upon a course of life which gradually made him the
talk and wonder of the countryside. The rooms occupied by Netta and her child were left just
as he had found them when he returned after her flight. He had turned the key on them then,
and nobody had since entered them. Tyson wondered whether it was sentiment, or temper; and
gave it for the latter.

The years passed away. Melrose's hair turned from black to gray; Thyrza married a tradesman
in Carlisle and presented him with a large family; the Dixons, as cook and manservant, gradually
fitted themselves more and more closely to the queer conditions of life in the Tower, and grew
old in the service of a master whose eccentricities became to them, in process of time, things
to be endured without comment, like disagreeable facts of climate. In Dixon, his Methodist
books, his Bible, and his weekly chapel maintained those forces of his character which were--and
always continued to be--independent of Melrose; and Melrose knew his own interests well enough
not to interfere with an obstinate man's religion. While Tyson, after five years, passed on
triumphantly to a lucrative agency in the Dukeries, having won a reputation for tact and patience
in the impossible service of a mad master, which would carry him through life. Melrose, being
Melrose, found it hopeless to replace him satisfactorily; and, as he continued to buy land
greedily year after year, the neglected condition of his immense estate became an ever-increasing
scandal to the county.

Meanwhile, for some years after the departure of Netta, Lady Tatham was obliged for reason
of health to spend the winters on the Riviera, and she and her boy were only at Duddon for
the summer months. Intercourse between her and her cousin Edmund Melrose was never renewed,
and her son grew up in practical ignorance of the relationship. When, however, the lad was
nearing the end of his Eton school days Duddon became once more the permanent home, summer
and winter, of mother and son, and young Lord Tatham, curly-haired, good-humoured, and good-hearted,
became thenceforward the favourite and princeling of the countryside. On the east and north,
the Duddon estates marched with Melrose's property. Occasions of friction constantly arose,
but the determination on each side to have no more communication with the other than was absolutely
necessary generally composed any nascent dispute; so long at least as Lady Tatham and a very
diplomatic agent were in charge.

But at the age of twenty-four, Harry Tatham succeeded to the sole management of his estates,
and his mother soon realized that her son was not likely to treat their miserly neighbour with
the same patience as herself.

And with the changes in human life, went changes even more subtle and enduring in the Cumbria
county itself. Those were times of crisis for English agriculture. Wheat-lands went back to
pasture; and a surplus population, that has found its way for generations to the factory towns,
began now to turn toward the great Canadian spaces beyond the western sea. Only the mountains
still rose changeless and eternal, at least to human sense; "ambitious for the hallowing" of
moon and sun; keeping their old secrets, and their perpetual youth.

And after twenty years Threlfall Tower became the scene of another drama, whereof what has
been told so far is but the prologue.

III

It was a May evening, and Lydia Penfold, spinster, aged twenty-four, was sketching in St. John's
Vale, that winding valley which, diverging from the Ambleside-Keswick road in an easterly direction,
divides the northern slopes of the Helvellyn range from the splendid mass of Blencathra.

So beautiful was the evening, so ravishing under its sway were heaven and earth, that Lydia's
work went but slowly. She was a professional artist, to whom guineas were just as welcome as
to other people; and she had very industrious and methodical views of her business. But she
was, before everything, one of those persons who thrill under the appeal of beauty to a degree
that often threatens or suspends practical energy. Save for the conscience in her, she could
have lived from day to day just for the moments of delight, the changes in light and shade,
in colour and form, that this beautiful world continually presents to senses as keen as hers.
Lydia's conscience, however, was strong; though on this particular evening it did little or
nothing to check the sheer sensuous dreaming that had crept over her.

The hand that held her palette had dropped upon her knee, her eyes were lifted to the spectacle
before her, and her lips, slightly parted, breathed in pleasure.

She looked on a pair of mountains of which one, torn and seamed from top to toe as though some
vast Fafnir of the prime had wreaked his dragon rage upon it, fronted her sheer, rimmed with
gold where some of its thrusting edges still caught the sunset, but otherwise steeped in purple
shades already prophesying night; while the other, separated from the first by a gap, yet grouping
with it, ran slanting away to the northwest, offering to the eyes only a series of lovely foreshortened
planes, rising from the valley, one behind the other, sweeping upward and backward to the central
peak of Skiddaw, and ablaze with light from base to summit.

The evenings in the north are long. It was past seven on this May day; yet Lydia knew that
the best of the show was still to come; she waited for the last act, and refused to think of
supper. That golden fusion of all the upper air; that "intermingling of Heaven's pomp," spread
on the great slopes of Skiddaw--red and bronze and purple, shot through each other, and glorified
by excess of light; that sharpness of the larch green on the lower slopes; that richness of
the river fields; that shining pageantry of cloud, rising or sinking with the mountain line:
pondering these things, absorbing them, she looked at her drawing from time to time in a smiling
despair; the happy despair of the artist, who amid the failure of to-day looks forward with
passion to the effort of to-morrow.

Youth and natural joy possessed her.

What scents from the river-bank, under the softly breathing wind which had sprung up with the
sunset! The girl brought her eyes down, and saw a bank of primroses, and beyond, in the little
copse on the farther side of the stream, a gleam of blue, where the wild hyacinth spread among
the birches. While close to her, at her very feet, ran the stream, with its slipping, murmuring
water, its stones splashed with white, purple, and orange, its still reaches paved with evening
gold.

"What a mercy I wrote that letter!" she said to herself, with a sigh of content. She was thinking
of a proposal that had come to her a few days before this date, to take a post as drawing mistress
in a Brighton school. The salary was tempting; and, at the moment, money was more than usually
scarce in the family purse. Her mother's eyes had looked at her wistfully.

Yet she had refused; with a laughing bravado that had concealed some inward qualms.

Whereupon the gods had immediately and scandalously rewarded her. She had sold four of her
drawings at a Liverpool exhibition for twenty pounds; and there were lying beside her on the
grass some agreeable press notices just arrived, most of which she already knew by heart.

Twenty pounds! That would pay the half year's rent. And there were three other drawings in
a London show that might very well sell too. Why not--now the others had sold? Meanwhile she--thank
the Lord!--had saved herself, as a fish from the hook. She was still free; free to draw, free
to dream. She had not bartered her mountains for a salary. Instead of crocodile walks, two
and two, with a score of stupid schoolgirls, here she was, still roaming the fells, the same
happy vagabond as before. She hugged her liberty. And at the same time she promised herself
that her mother should have a new shawl and a new cap for Whitsuntide.

Those at present in use came near in Lydia's opinion to being a family disgrace.

The last act of the great spectacle rushed on; and again the artist held her breath enthralled.
The gold on Skiddaw was passing into rose; and over the greenish blue of the lower sky, webs
of crimson cirrhus spun themselves. The stream ran fire; and far away the windows of a white
farm blazed. Lydia seized a spare sketching-block lying on the grass, and began to note down
a few "passages" in the sky before her.

Suddenly a gust came straying down the valley. It blew the press-cuttings which had dropped
from her lap toward the stream. One of them fell in, the others, long flapping things, hung
caught in a tuft of grass. Lydia sprang up, with an exclamation of annoyance, and went to the
rescue. Dear, dear!--the longest and best notice, which spoke of her work as "agreeable and
scholarly, showing, at tunes, more than a touch of high talent"--was quietly floating away.
She must get it back. Her mother had not yet read it--not yet purred over it. And it was most
desirable she should read it, so as to get rid thereby of any lingering doubt about the horrid
school and its horrid proposal.

But alack! the slip of newspaper was already out of reach, speeded by a tiny eddy toward a
miniature rapid in the middle of the beck. Lydia, clinging with one hand to a stump of willow,
caught up a stick lying on the bank with the other, and, hanging over the stream, tried to
head back the truant. All that happened was that her foot slipping on a pebble went flop into
the shallow water, and part of her dress followed it.

It was not open to Lydia to swear, and she had no time for the usual feminine exclamations
before she heard a voice behind her.

"Allow me--can I be of any use?"

She turned in astonishment, extricating her wet foot, and clambered back on to the bank. A
young man stood there, civilly deferential. His bicycle lay on the grass at the edge of the
road, which was only a few steps away.

"I saw you slip in, and thought perhaps I might help. You were trying to reach something, weren't
you?"

"It doesn't matter, thank you," said Lydia, whose cheeks had gone pink.

The young man looked at her, and became still more civil.

"What was it? That piece of paper? Oh, I'll get it in a moment."

And splashing from stone to stone in the river-bed, he had soon reached a point where, with
the aid of Lydia's stick, the bedraggled cutting was soon fished out and returned to its owner.
Lydia thanked him.

"But you've wet both your feet!" She looked at them, with concern. "Won't it be very uncomfortable,
bicycling?"

"I haven't far to go. Oh, by the way, I was just looking out for somebody to ask--about this
road--and I couldn't see a soul, till just as I came out of the little wood there"--he pointed--"I
saw you--slipping in."

They both laughed. Lydia returned to her camp stool, and began to put up her sketching things.

"What is it you want to know?"

"Is this the road for Whitebeck?"

"Yes, certainly. You come to a bridge and the village is on the other side."

"Thank you. I don't know these parts. But what an awfully jolly valley!" He waved a hand toward
it. "And what do you think I saw about a mile higher up?" He had picked up his bicycle from
the grass, and stood leaning easily upon it. She could not but observe that he was tall and
slim and handsome. A tourist, no doubt; she could not place him as an inhabitant.

"I know!" she said smiling. "You saw the otter hounds. They passed me an hour ago. Have they
caught him?"

"Who? the otter? Lord, no! He got right away from them--up a tributary stream."

"Good!" said Lydia, as she shut her painting-box.

The young man hesitated. He had clearly no right to linger any longer, but, as the girl before
him seemed to him one of the most delicious creatures he had ever seen, he did linger.

"I wonder if I might ask you another question? Can you tell me whether that fine old house
over there is Duddon Castle?"

"Duddon Castle!" Lydia lifted her eyebrows. "Duddon Castle is seven miles away. That place
is called Threlfall Tower. Were you going to Duddon?"

"No. But"--he hesitated--"I know young Tatham a little. I should like to have seen his house.
But, that's a fine old place, isn't it?" He looked with curiosity at the pile of building rising
beyond a silver streak of river, amid the fresh of the May woods.

"Well--yes--in some ways," said Lydia, dubiously. "Don't you know who lives there?"

"Not the least. I am a complete stranger here. I say, do let me do that up for you?" And, letting
his bicycle fall, the young man seized the easel which had still to be taken to pieces and
put into its case.

Lydia shot a wavering look at him. He ought certainly to have departed by now, and she ought
to be snubbing him. But the expression on his sunburnt face as he knelt on the grass, unscrewing
her easel, seemed so little to call for snubbing that instead she gave him further information;
interspersed with directions to him as to what to do and what not to do with her gear.

"It belongs to a Mr. Melrose. Did you never hear of him?"

"Never. Why should I?"

"Not from the Tathams?"

"No. You see I only knew Tatham at college--in my last year. He was a good deal junior to me.
And I have never stayed with them at Duddon--though they kindly asked me--years ago."

The girl beside him took not the smallest notice of his information. She was busy packing up
brushes and paints, and her next remark showed him subtly that she did not mean to treat him
as an acquaintance of the Tathams, whom she probably knew, but was determined to keep him to
his rôle of stranger and tourist.

"You had better look at Threlfall as you pass. It has a splendid situation."

"I will. But why ought I to have heard of the gentleman? I forget his name."

"Mr. Melrose? Oh, well--he's a legend about here. We all talk about him."

"What's wrong with him? Is he a nuisance?--or a lunatic?"

"It depends what you have to do with him. About here he goes by the name of the 'Ogre.'"

"How, does he eat people up?" asked the stranger, smiling.

The girl hesitated.

"Ask one of his tenants!" she said at last.

"Oh, he's a landlord, and a bad one?"

She nodded, a sudden sharpness in her gray eyes.

"But that's not the common reason for the name. It's because he shuts himself up--in a house
full of treasures. He's a great collector."

"Of works of art? You--don't need to be mad to do that! It seems to be one of the things that
pays best nowadays--with all these Americans about. It's a way of investing your money. Doesn't
he show them to anybody?"

"Nobody is allowed to go near him, or his house. He has built a high wall round his park, and
dogs are let loose at night that tear you to pieces."

"Nice man! If it weren't for the dogs, I should brave him. In a small way, I'm a collector myself."

He smiled, and Lydia understood that the personal reference was thrown out as a feeler, in
case she might be willing to push the conversation further. But she did not respond, although
as he spoke she happened to notice that he wore a remarkable ring on his left hand, which seemed
to illustrate his remark. An engraved gem?--Greek? Her eyes were quick for such things.

However, she was seized with shyness, and as she had now finished the packing of her brushes
and paints, and the young man had elaborately fastened all the straps of the portable easel
and its case, there was nothing for him to do but to stoop unwillingly for his soft hat which
was lying on the grass. Then an idea struck him.

"I say, what are you going to do with all these things?"

"Carry them home." She smiled. "I am not a cripple."

"Mightn't I--mightn't I carry them for you?"

"Thank you. My way lies in quite another direction. Good-night."

She held out a shapely hand. He took it, lifted his hat, and departed.

As soon as he was safely past a jutting corner of the road Lydia, instead of going home, lazily
sat down again on a rock to think about what had happened. She was perfectly aware that--considering
the whole interview had only taken ten minutes--she had made an impression upon the young man.
And as young men of such distinguished appearance were not common in the Whitebeck neighbourhood,
the recollection of all those little signs in look and manner which had borne witness to the
stranger's discreet admiration of her was not at all disagreeable.

He was not a native--that she was sure of. She guessed him a Londoner. "Awfully good clothes!--London
clothes. About thirty, I should think? I wonder what he does. He can't be rich, or he wouldn't
be bicycling. He did up those straps as though he were used to them; but he can't be an artist,
or he'd have said something. It was a face with lots of power in it. Not very good-tempered,
I should say? But there's something about him--yes, distinctly, something! I liked his thin
cheeks, and his dark curls. His head, too, was uncommonly well set on. I'm sure that there's
a good deal to him, as the Americans say; he's not stuffed with sawdust. I can imagine--just
imagine--being in love with him."

She laughed to herself.

Then a sudden thought occurred to her, which reddened her cheeks. Suppose when the young man
came to think over it, he believed that she had let the papers fall into the river--deliberately--on
purpose--just to attract his attention? At the very precise moment that he comes upon the scene,
she slips into the water. Of course!--an arranged affair!

She sat on, meditating in some discomfort.

"It is no use deceiving ourselves," she thought. "We're not in the good old Tennysonian days.
There's precious little chivalry now! Men don't idealize women as they used. They're grown
far more suspicious--and harder. Perhaps because women have grown so critical of them! Anyway
something's gone--what is it? Poetry? Illusion? And yet!--why is it that men still put us off
our balance?--even now--that they matter so much less, now that we live our own lives, and
can do without them? I shouldn't be sitting here, bothering my head, if it had been another
girl who had come to help."

Slowly she gathered up her things and took her way home, while the evening of blue and pearl
fell around her, while the glow died on the fells, and Venus came out in a sky that was still
too full of light to let any lesser stars appear.

She crossed the stepping stones, and in a river field on the farther side she came across an
old shepherd, carrying a wounded ewe across his shoulders, and with his dog beside him. At
sight of him she paused in astonishment. He was an old friend of hers, but he belonged to a
village--the village of Mainstairs--some three miles away in the lowland toward Pengarth. She
had first come across him when sketching among some distant fells where he had been a shepherd
for more than forty years.

The old man's russet face, sharp-lined and strong, lit up as he saw her approaching.

"Why I thowt I med coom across yer!" he said smiling. And he explained that he had been paying
a visit to a married daughter under Naddle Fell, and had volunteered to carry an injured sheep
down to a valley farm, whence it had strayed on his way home.

They stopped to talk while he rested a few minutes, under his burden, propped against a rock.
Lydia asked him after a sick grand-daughter. Her question showed knowledge--no perfunctory
kindness.

He shook his head sadly, and her grave, soft look, as she fell silent a little, beside him,
said more than words.

"Anything been done to your cottage?" she asked him presently.

"Noa--nowt."

"Nor to the other houses?"

"Naethin'."

Her brows frowned.

"Horrible!" she said under her breath. But they did not pursue the subject. Instead the old
man broke out in praise of the "won'erful 'cute" sheep dog beside him, and in the story of
the accident which had slightly lamed the ewe he was carrying. Lydia's vivacious listening,
her laugh, her comments, expressed--unconsciously--with just a touch of Cumbria dialect, showed
them natural comrades. Some deeply human gift, some spontaneity in the girl, answered to the
racy simplicity of the old man.

"Tell me once more"--she said, as she rose from her seat upon a fallen tree, and prepared to
go on her way--"those counting words you told me last week. I tried to tell them to my mother--but
I couldn't remember them all. They made us laugh so."

"Aye, they're the owd words," said the shepherd complacently. "We doan't use 'em now. But my
feyther minds how his feyther used allus to count by 'em."

And he began the catalogue of those ancient numerals by which the northern dalesman of a hundred
years ago were still accustomed to reckon their sheep, words that go back to the very infancy
of man.

"Yan--tyan--tethera--methera--pimp; sethera--lethera--hovera--dovera--dick."

Lydia's face dissolved in laughter--and when the old man delighting in her amusement went on
to the compounds of ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, and the rest:

"Yan-a-dick--tyan-a-dick--tethera-a-dick--methera-a-dick--bumfit."

At "bumfit" (fifteen) they both rocked with merriment, the old man carried away by the infection
of hers.

"Go on," said Lydia--the tears of laughter in her eyes--"up to twenty, and then hear me say them."

"Yan-a-bumfit--tyan-a-bumfit--tethera-a-bumfit--methera-a-bumfit--giggot" (twenty).

"Giggot" set them both off again--and then Lydia--stumbling, laughing, and often corrected,
said her lesson.

By the time she was fairly perfect, and the old man had straightened himself again under his
load--a veritable "good shepherd," glorified by the evening light--they parted with a friendly
nod, glad to have met and sure to meet again.

"I'll come and see Bessie soon," she said gently, as she moved on.

"Aye. Yo'll be varra welcome."

She stepped forward briskly, gained the high road, and presently saw in front of her a small
white house, recently built, and already embowered in a blossoming garden. Lilacs sent their
fragrance to greet her; rhododendrons glowed through the twilight, and a wild-cherry laden
with bloom reared its white miracle against the walls of the house.

Lydia stood at the gate devouring the tree with her eyes. The blossom had already begun to
drop. "Two days more"--she said to herself, sighing--"and it'll be gone--till next year. And
it's been out such a little, little while! I seem hardly to have looked at it. It's horrible
how short-lived all the beautiful things are."

"Lydia!" A voice called from an open window.

"Yes, mother."

"You're dreadfully late, Lydia! Susan and I have finished supper long ago."

Lydia walked into the house, and put her head into the drawing-room.

"Sorry, mother! It was so lovely, I couldn't come in. And I met a dear old shepherd I know.
Don't bother about me. I'll get some milk and cake."

She closed the door again, before her mother could protest.

"Girls will never think of their meals!" said Mrs. Penfold to herself in irritation. "And then
all of a sudden they get nerves--or consumption--or something."

As she spoke, she withdrew from the window, and curled herself up on a sofa, where a knitted
coverlet lay, ready to draw over her feet. Mrs. Penfold was a slight, pretty woman of fifty
with invalidish Sybaritic ways, and a character which was an odd mixture of humility and conceit--diffidence
and audacity. She was quite aware that she was not as clever as her daughters. She could not
write poetry like Susan, or paint like Lydia. But then, in her own opinion, she had so many
merits they were without; merits which more than maintained her self-respect, and enabled her
to hold her ground with them. For instance: by the time she was four and twenty, Lydia's age,
she had received at least a dozen proposals. Lydia's scalps, so far as her mother knew, were
only two--fellow-students at South Kensington, absurd people, not to be counted. Then, pretty
as Lydia was, her nose could not be compared for delicacy with her mother's. "My nose was always
famous"--Mrs. Penfold would say complacently to her daughters--"it was that which first attracted
your dear father. 'It was,' he said--you know he always expressed himself so remarkably--'such
a sure sign of "race."' His own people--oh! they were quite nice people--but quite middle-class."
Again, her hands and feet were smaller and more aristocratic than either Lydia's or Susan's.
She liked to remind herself constantly how everybody had admired them and talked about them
when she was a girl.

Drawing her work-box toward her, while she waited for Lydia's return, Mrs. Penfold fell to
knitting, while the inner chatter of the mind went as fast as her needles--concerned chiefly
with two matters of absorbing interest: Lydia's twenty pounds, and a piece of news about Lydia,
recently learnt from the rector's wife.

As to the twenty pounds, it was the greatest blessing! Of course the school salary would have
been a certainty--and Lydia had hardly considered it with proper seriousness. But there--all
was well! The extra twenty pounds would carry them on, and now that Lydia had begun to earn,
thought the maternal optimist, she would of course go on earning--at higher and higher prices--and
the family income of some three hundred a year would obtain the increment it so desperately
needed. And as Mrs. Penfold looked upon a girls' school as something not far removed from a
nunnery, a place at any rate painfully devoid of the masculine element; and as her whole mind
was set--sometimes romantically, sometimes financially--on the marriage of her daughters, she
felt that both she and Lydia had escaped what might have been an unfortunate necessity.

Yes, indeed!--what a providential escape, if--

Mrs. Penfold let fall her knitting; her face sparkled. Why had Lydia never communicated the
fact, the thrilling fact that she had been meeting at the rectory--more than once apparently--not
merely a young man, but the young man of the neighbourhood. And with results--favourable results--quite
evident to the Rector and the Rector's wife, if Lydia herself chose to ignore and secrete them.
It was really unkind....

The door opened. A white figure slipped into the room through its mingled lights, and found
a stool beside Mrs. Penfold.

"Dear--are you all right?"

Mrs. Penfold stroked the speaker's head.

"Well, I thought I was going to have a headache this morning, darling--but I didn't--it went
away. Lydia! the Rector and Mrs. Deacon have been here. Why didn't you tell me you have been
meeting Lord Tatham at the rectory?"

Lydia laughed.

"Didn't I? Well, he's quite decent."

"Mrs. Deacon says he admired you. She's sure he did!" Mrs. Penfold stooped eagerly toward her
daughter, trying to see her face in the twilight.

"Mrs. Deacon's a goose! You know she is, mother,--you often say so. I met him first, of course,
at the Hunt Ball. And you saw him there too. You saw me dancing with him."

"But that was only once," said Mrs. Penfold, candidly. "I didn't think anything of that. When
I was a girl, if a young man liked me at a dance, we went on till we made everybody talk. Or
else, there was nothing in it."

"Well, there was nothing in it, dear--in this case. And I wouldn't advise you to give me to
Lord Tatham--just yet!"

Mrs. Penfold sighed.

"Of course one knows that that kind of young man has his marriage made for him--just like royalty.
But sometimes--they break out. There are dukes that have married plain Misses--no better than
you, Lydia--and not American either. But--Lydia--you did like him?"

"Who? Lord Tatham? Certainly."

"I expect most girls do! He's the great parti about here."

"Mother, really!" cried Lydia. "He's just a pleasant youth--not at all clever. And oh, how
badly he plays bridge!"

"That doesn't matter. Mrs. Deacon says you got on with him, splendidly."

"I chaffed him a good deal. He really plays worse than I do--if you can believe it."

"They like being chaffed"--said Mrs. Penfold pensively--"if a girl does it well."

"I don't care, darling, whether they like it or not. It amuses me, and so I do it."

"But you mustn't let them think they're being laughed at. If you do that, Lydia, you'll be
an old maid. Oh, Lydia!"--the speaker sighed like a furnace--"I do wish you saw more young men!"

"Well, I saw another one--much handsomer than Lord Tatham--this afternoon," laughed Lydia.

Mrs. Penfold eagerly inquired. The story was told, and Mrs. Penfold, as easily lured by a new
subject as a child by a new doll, fell into many speculations as to who the youth could have
been, and where he was going. Lydia soon ceased to listen. But when the coverlet slipped away
she did not fail to replace it tenderly over her mother's feet, and every now and then her
fingers gave a caressing touch to the delicate hand of which Mrs. Penfold was so proud. It
was not difficult to see that of the two the girl was really the mother, in spirit; the maturer,
protecting soul.

Presently she roused herself to ask:

"Where is Susan?"

"She went up to write directly after supper, and we mustn't disturb her. She hopes to finish
her tragedy to-night. She said she had an inspiration."

"Inspiration or no, I shall hunt her to bed, if I don't hear her door shut by twelve," said
Lydia with sisterly determination.

"Do you think, darling, that Susy--will ever make a great deal of money by her writings?" The
tone was wistful.

"Well, no, mother, candidly, I don't. There's no money in tragedies--so I'm told."

Mrs. Penfold sighed. But Lydia, changed the subject, entered upon a discussion, so inventively
artistic, of the new bonnet, and the new dress in which her mother was to appear on Whitsunday,
that when bedtime came Mrs. Penfold had seldom passed a pleasanter evening.

After her mother had gone to bed, Lydia wandered into the moonlit garden, and strolled about
its paths, lost in the beauty of its dim flowers and the sweetness of its scents. The spring
was in her veins, and she felt strangely shaken and restless. She tried to think of her painting,
and the prospect she had of getting into an artistic club, a club of young landscapists, which
exhibited every May, and was beginning to make a mark. But her thoughts strayed perpetually.

So her mother imagined that Lord Tatham had only danced once with her at the Hunt Ball? As
a matter of fact, he had danced with her once, and then, as dancing was by no means the youth's
strong point, they had sat out in a corner of the hotel garden, by the river, through four
supper dances. And if the fact had escaped the notice both of Mrs. Penfold and Susy, greatly
to Lydia's satisfaction, she was well aware that it had not altogether escaped the notice of
the neighbourhood, which kept an eager watch on the doings of its local princeling in matters
matrimonial.

And as to the various meetings at the rectory, Lydia could easily have made much of them, if
she had wished. She had come to see that they were deliberately sought by Lord Tatham, and
encouraged by Mrs. Deacon. And because she had come to see it, she meant to refuse another
invitation from Mrs. Deacon, which was in her pocket--without consulting her mother. Besides--said
youthful pride--if Lord Tatham really wished to know them, Lady Tatham must call. And Lady
Tatham had not called.

Her mother was quite right. The marriage of young earls are, generally speaking, "arranged,"
and there are hovering relations, and unwritten laws in the background, which only the foolish
forget. "And as I am not a candidate for the place," thought Lydia, "I won't be misunderstood!"

She did not intend indeed to be troubled--for the present--with such matters at all.

"Marrying is not in the bill!" She declaimed it to a lilac-bush, standing with her hands behind
her, and face uplifted. "I have no money, and no position--therefore the vast majority of men
won't want to marry me. And as to scheming to make them want it--why!--good heavens!--when
there are such amusing things to do in the world!"

She paced the garden paths, thinking passionately, defiantly of her art, yet indignant with
herself for these vague yearnings and languors that had to be so often met and put down.

"Men!--men!--what do they matter to me, except for talk--and fun! Yet there one goes thinking
about them--like any fool. It's sex of course--and youth. I can no more escape them than anybody
else. But I Can be mistress of them. I will. That's where this generation differs. We needn't
drift--we see clear. Oh! those clouds--that blue!--those stars! Dear world! Isn't beauty enough?"

She lifted her arms above her head in a wild aspiration. And all in a moment it surprised her
to feel her eyes wet with tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile the young man who had rescued her press cuttings had fallen, barely an hour after
his parting from her, upon evil fortunes.

His bicycle had carried him swiftly down the valley toward the Whitebeck bridge. Just above
the bridge, a steep pitch of hill, one of those specimens of primitive road-making that abound
in Cumbria, descended rapidly into a dark hollow, with a high wall on one side, overhung by
trees, and on the other a bank, broken three parts of tie way down by the entrance of a side
road. At the top of the hill, Faversham, to give the youth his name, stopped to look at the
wall, which was remarkable for height and strength. The thick wood on his right hid any building
there might be on the farther side of the stream. But clearly this was the Ogre's wall--ogreish
indeed! A man might well keep a cupboard full of Fatimas, alive or dead, on the other side
of it, or a coiner's press, or a banknote factory, or any other romantic and literary villainy.
Faversham found himself speculating with amusement on the old curmudgeon behind the wall; always
with the vision, drawn by recollection on the leafy background, of a girl's charming face--clear
pale skin, beautiful eyes, more blue surely than gray--the whitest neck, with coils of brown
hair upon it--the mouth with its laughing freedom--yet reticent--no mere silly sweetness!

Then putting on his brake, he began to coast down the hill, which opened gently only to turn
without notice into something scandalously precipitous. The bicycle had been hired in Keswick,
and had had a hard season's use. The brake gave way at the worst moment of the hill, and Faversham,
unable to save himself, rushed to perdition. And by way of doubling his misfortune, as in the
course of his mad descent he reached the side road on the left, there came the loud clatter
of a cart, and a young horse emerged almost at a gallop, with a man tugging vainly at its rein.

Ten minutes later a group of men stood consulting by the side of the road over Faversham's
prostrate form. He was unconscious; his head and face were covered with blood, and his left
ankle was apparently broken. A small open motor stood at the bottom of the hill, and an angry
dispute was going on between an old man in mire-stained working-clothes, and the young doctor
from Pengarth to whom the motor belonged.

"I say, Mr. Dixon, that you've got to take this man into Mr. Melrose's house and look after
him, till he is fit to be moved farther, or you'll be guilty of his death, and I shall give
evidence accordingly!" said the doctor, with energy, as he raised himself from the injured man.

"Theer's noa place for him i' t' Tower, Mr. Undershaw, an' I'll take noa sich liberty!"

"Then I will. Where's Mr. Melrose?"

"I' London--till to-morrow. Yo'll do nowt o' t' soart, doctor."

"We shall see. To carry him half a mile to the farm, when you might carry him just across that
bridge to the house, would be sheer murder. I won't see it done. And if you do it, you'll be
indicted for manslaughter. Now then--why doesn't that hurdle come along?" The speaker looked
impatiently up the road; and, as he spoke, a couple of labourers appeared at the top of the
hill, carrying a hurdle between them.

Dixon threw looks of mingled wrath and perplexity at the doctor, and the men.

"I tell yo', doctor, it conno' be done! Muster Melrose's orders mun be obeyed. I have noa power
to admit onybody to his house withoot his leave. Yo' knaw yoursel'," he added in the doctor's
ear, "what Muster Melrose is."

Undershaw muttered something--expressing either wrath or scorn--behind his moustache; then
said aloud:

"Never you mind, Dixon; I shall take the responsibility. You let me alone. Now, my boys, lend
a hand with the hurdle, and give me some coats."

Faversham's leg had been already placed in a rough splint and his head bandaged. They lifted
him, quite unconscious, upon the hurdle, and made him as comfortable as they could. The doctor
anxiously felt his pulse, and directed the men to carry him, as carefully as possible, through
a narrow gate in the high wall opposite which was standing open, across the private foot-bridge
over the stream, and so to the Terrace whereon stood Threlfall Tower. Impenetrably hidden as
it was behind the wall and the trees, the old house was yet, in truth, barely sixty yards away.
Dixon followed, lamenting and protesting, but in vain.

"Hold your tongue, man!" said Undershaw at last, losing his temper. "You disgrace your master.
It would be a public scandal to refuse to help a man in this plight! If we get him alive through
to-night, it will be a mercy. I believe the cart's been over him somewhere!" he added, with
a frowning brow.

Dixon silenced, but by no means persuaded, followed the little procession, till it reached
a side door of the Tower, opening on the terrace just beyond the bridge. The door was shut,
and it was not till the doctor had made several thunderous attacks upon it, beside sending
men round to the other doors of the house, that Mrs. Dixon at last cautiously opened it.

Fresh remonstrance and refusal followed on the part both of husband and wife. Fresh determination
also on the part of the doctor, seconded by the threatening looks and words of Faversham's
bearers, stout Cumbria labourers, to whom the storming of the Tower was clearly a business
they enjoyed. At last the old couple, bitterly protesting, gave way, and the procession entered.

They found themselves in a long corridor, littered with a strange multitude of objects, scarcely
distinguishable in the dim light shed by one unshuttered window through which some of the evening
glow still penetrated. Dixon and his wife whispered excitedly together; after which Dixon led
the way through the corridor into the entrance hall--which was equally encumbered--and so to
a door on the right.

"Yo' can bring him in there," he said sulkily to Undershaw. "There's mebbe a bed upstairs we
can bring doon."

He threw open the drawing-room--a dreary, disused room, with its carpets rolled up in one corner,
and its scanty furniture piled in another. The candle held by Mrs. Dixon lit up the richly
decorated ceiling.

"Can't you do anything better?" asked Undershaw, turning upon her vehemently. "Don't you keep
a spare bedroom in this place?"

"Noa, we doan't!" said Mrs. Dixon, with answering temper. "There isn't a room upstairs but
what's full o' Muster Melrose's things. Yo' mun do wi' this, or naethin'."

Undershaw submitted, and Faversham's bearers gently laid him down, spreading their coats on
the bare floor to receive him, till a bed could be found. Dixon and his wife, in a state of
pitiable disturbance, went off to look for one, while Undershaw called after them:

"And I warn you that to-morrow you'll have to find quarters for two nurses!"

Thus, without any conscious action on his own part, and in the absence of its formidable master,
was Claude Faversham brought under the roof of Threlfall Tower.

IV

On the evening of the following day, Mr. Edmund Melrose arrived in Pengarth by train from London,
hired a one-horse wagonette, and drove out to the Tower.

His manners were at no time amiable, but the man who had the honour of driving him on this
occasion, and had driven him occasionally before, had never yet seen him in quite so odious
a temper. This was already evident at the time of the start from Pengarth, and thenceforward
the cautious Cumbrian preserved an absolute and watchful silence, to the great annoyance of
Melrose, who would have welcomed any excuse for ill-humour. But as nothing beyond the curtest
monosyllables were to be got out of his companion, and as the rich beauty of the May landscape
was entirely lost upon himself, Melrose was reduced at last in the course of his ten miles'
drive to scanning once more the copy of the Times which he had brought with him from the south.
The news of various strikes and industrial arbitrations which it contained had already enraged
him; and enraged him again as he looked through it. The proletariat, in his opinion, must be
put down and kept down; that his own class began to show a lamentable want of power to do either
was the only public matter that ever really troubled him. So far as his life was affected by
the outside world at all, except as a place where auctions took place, and dealers' shops abounded,
it was through this consciousness of impending social disaster, this terror as of a rapidly
approaching darkness bearing the doom of the modern world in its bosom, which intermittently
oppressed him, as it has oppressed and still overshadows innumerable better men of our day.

At this moment, in the month of May, 190--, Edmund Melrose had just passed his seventieth birthday.
But the extraordinary energy and vivacity of his good looks had scarcely abated since the time
when, twenty-three years before this date, Netta Smeath had first seen him in Florence; although
his hair had whitened, and the bronzed skin of the face had developed a multitude of fine wrinkles
that did but add to its character. His aspect, even on the threshold of old age, had still
something of the magnificence of an Italian captain of the Renaissance, something also of the
pouncing, peering air that belongs to the type. He seemed indeed to be always on the point
of seizing or appropriating some booty or other. His wandering eyes, his long acquisitive fingers,
his rapid movements showed him still the hunter on the trail, to whom everything else was in
truth indifferent but the satisfaction of an instinct which had grown and flourished on the
ruins of a man.

As they drove along, through various portions of the Tower estates, the eyes of the taciturn
driver beside him took note of the dilapidated farm buildings and the broken gates which a
miserly landlord could not be induced to repair, until an exasperated tenant actually gave
notice. Melrose meanwhile was absorbed in trying to recover a paragraph in the Times he had
caught sight of on a first reading, and had then lost in the excitement of studying the prices
of a sale at Christie's, held the day before, wherein his own ill luck had led to the bad temper
from which he was suffering. He tracked the passage at last. It ran as follows:

"The late Professor William Mackworth has left the majority of his costly collections to the
nation. To the British Museum will go the marbles and bronzes, to the South Kensington, the
china and the tapestries. Professor Mackworth made no stipulations, and the authorities of
both museums are free to deal with his bequests as they think best."

Melrose folded the newspaper and put it back into his pocket with a short sudden laugh, which
startled the man beside him. "Stipulations! I should rather think not! What museum in its senses
would accept such piffling stuff with any stipulations attached? As it is, the greater part
will go into the lumber-rooms; they'll never show them! There's only one collection that Mackworth
ever had that was worth having. Not a word about that. People don't give their best things
to the country--not they. Hypocrites! What on earth has he done with them? There are several
things I want."

And he fell into a long and greedy meditation, in which, as usual, his fancy pursued a quarry
and brought it down. He took no notice meanwhile of the objects passed as they approached the
Tower, although among them were many that might well have roused the attention of a landlord;
as, for instance, the condition of the long drive leading up to the house, with its deep ruts
and grass-grown sides; a tree blown down, not apparently by any very recent storm, and now
lying half across the roadway, so that the horse and carriage picked their way with difficulty
round its withered branches; one of the pillars of the fine gateway, which gave access to the
walled enclosure round the house, broken away; and the enclosure within, which had been designed
originally as a formal garden in the Italian style, and was now a mere tangled wilderness of
weeds and coarse grass, backed by dense thickets of laurel and yew which had grown up in a
close jungle round the house, so that many of the lower windows were impenetrably overgrown.

As they drew up at the gate, the Pengarth driver looked with furtive curiosity at the house-front.
Melrose, in the words of Lydia to young Faversham, had "become a legend" to his neighbourhood,
and many strange things were believed about him. It was said that the house contained a number
of locked and shuttered rooms which were never entered; that Melrose slept by day, and worked
or prowled by night; that his only servants were the two Dixons, no one else being able to
endure his company; that he and the house were protected by savage dogs, and that his sole
visitors were occasional strangers from the south, who arrived with black bags, and often departed
pursued with objurgations by Melrose, and in terror of the dogs. It was said also that the
Tower was full of precious and marvellous things, including hordes of gold and silver; that
Melrose, who was detested in the countryside, lived in the constant dread of burglary or murder;
and finally--as a clue to the whole situation which the popular mind insisted on supplying--that
he had committed some fearful crime, during his years in foreign parts, for which he could
not be brought to justice; but remorse and dread of discovery had affected his brain, and turned
him into a skulking outcast.

Possessed by these simple but interesting ideas, the Pengarth man sharply noticed, first that
the gate of the enclosure was padlocked, Melrose himself supplying a key from his pocket; next
that most of the windows of the front were shuttered; and lastly--strange and unique fact,
according to his own recollections of the Tower--that two windows on the ground floor were
standing wide open, giving some view of the large room within, so far as two partially drawn
curtains allowed. As Melrose unlocked the gate, the house door opened, and three huge dogs
came bounding out, in front of a gray-haired man, whom the driver of the wagonette knew to
be "owd Dixon," Melrose's butler and factotum. The driver was watching the whole scene with
an absorbed curiosity, when Melrose turned, threw him a sudden look, paid him, and peremptorily
bade him be off. He had therefore no time to observe the perturbation of Dixon who was coming
with slow steps to meet his master; nor that a woman in white cap and apron had appeared behind
him on the steps.

       *       *       *       *       *

Melrose on opening the gate found himself surrounded by his dogs, a fine mastiff and two young
collies. He was trying to drive them off, after a gruff word to Dixon, when he was suddenly
brought to a standstill by the sight of the woman on the steps.

"D----n it!--whom have you got here?" he said, fiercely perceiving at the same moment the open
windows on the ground floor.

"Muster Melrose--it's noan o' my doin'," was Dixon's trembling reply, as he pointed a shaky
finger at the windows. "It was t' yoong doctor from Pengarth--yo' ken him--"

A woman's voice interrupted.

"Please, sir, would you stop those dogs barking? They disturb the patient."

Melrose looked at the speaker in stupefaction.

"What the deuce have you been doing with my house?"--he turned furiously to Dixon--"who are
these people?"

"Theer's a yoong man lyin' sick i' the drawin'-room," said Dixon desperately. "They do say
'at he's in a varra parlish condition; an' they tell me there's to be no barkin' nor noise
whativer."

"Well, upon my word!" Melrose was by this time pale with rage. "A young man--sick--in my drawing-room!--and
a young woman giving orders in my house!--you're a precious lot--you are!" He strode on toward
the young woman, who, as he now saw, was in the dress of a nurse. She had descended the steps,
and was vainly trying to quiet the dogs.

"I'll uphold yer!" muttered Dixon, following slowly after; "it's the queerest do-ment that
iver I knew!"

"Madam! I should like to know what your business is here. I never invited you that I know of,
and I am entirely at a loss to understand your appearance in my house!"

The girl whom Melrose addressed with this fierce mock courtesy turned on him a perplexed face.

"I know nothing about it, sir, except that I was summoned from Manchester last night to an
urgent case, and arrived early this morning. Can't you, sir, quiet your dogs? Mr. Faversham
is very ill."

"In my house!" cried Melrose, furiously. "I won't have it. He shan't remain here. I will have
him removed."

The girl looked at him with amazement.

"That, sir, would be quite impossible. It would kill him to move him. Please, Mr. Dixon, help
me with the dogs."

She turned imploringly to Dixon, who obediently administered various kicks and cuffs to the
noisy trio which at last procured silence.

Her expression lightened, and with the professional alertness of one who has no time to spend
in gossiping, she turned and went quickly back into the house.

Dixon approached his master.

"That's yan o' them," he said, gloomily. "T'other's inside."

"T'other who?--what? Tell me, you old fool, at once what the whole cursed business is! Are
you mad or am I?"

Dixon eyed him calmly. He had by this time summoned to his aid the semi-mystical courage given
him occasionally by his evangelical faith. If it was the Lord's will that such a thing should
happen, why it was the Lord's will; and it was no use whatever for Mr. Melrose or any one else
to kick against the pricks. So with much teasing deliberation, and constantly interrupted by
his angry master, he told the story of the accident on the evening before, of Doctor Undershaw's
appearance on the scene, and of the storming of the Tower.

"Well, of all the presuming rascals!" said Melrose with slow fury, under his breath, when the
tale was done. "But we'll be even with him! Send a man from the farm, at once, to the cottage
hospital at Whitebeck. They've got an ambulance--I commission it. It's a hospital case. They
shall see to it. Be quick! March!--do you hear?--I intended to quit of them--bag and baggage!"

Dixon did not move.

"Doctor said if we were to move un now, it 'ud be manslaughter," he said stolidly, "an' he'd
have us 'op."

"Oh, he would, would he!" roared Melrose, "I'll see to that. Go along, and do what you're told.
D----n it! am I not to be obeyed, sir?"

Wherewith he hurried toward the house. Dixon looked after him, shook his head, and instead
of going toward the farm, quietly retreated round the farther corner of the house to the kitchen.
He was the only person at the Tower who had ever dared to cross Melrose. He attempted it but
rarely; but when he did, Melrose was each time freshly amazed to discover that, in becoming
his factotum, Dixon had not altogether ceased to be a man.

Melrose entered the house by the front door. As he walked into the hall, making not the slightest
effort to moderate the noise of his approach, another woman--also in white cap and apron--ran
toward him, with quick noiseless steps from the corridor, her finger on her lip.

"Please, sir!--it is most important for the patient that the house should be absolutely quiet."

"I tell you the house is mine!" said Melrose, positively stamping. "What business have you--or
the other one--to give orders in it? I'll turn you all out!--you shall march, I tell you!"

The nurse--an older woman than the first who had spoken to him outside--drew back with dignity.

"I am sorry if I offended you, sir. I was summoned from Carlisle this morning as night nurse
to an urgent case. I have been helping the other nurse all day, for Mr. Faversham has wanted
a great deal of attention. I am now just going on duty, while the day nurse takes some rest."

"Show me where he is," said Melrose peremptorily. "I wish to see him."

The nurse hesitated. But if this was really the master of the house, it was difficult to ignore
him entirely. She looked at his feet.

"You'll come in quietly, sir? I am afraid--your boots--"

"Oh, go on! Order me about! What's wrong with my boots?" The pale grin was meant for sarcasm.

"They're rather heavy, sir, for a sick-room. Would you--would you mind--taking them off?"

"Upon my word, you're a cool one!"

But there was something in the quiet self-possession of the woman which coerced, while it exasperated
him. He perceived plainly that she took him for a madman to be managed. Yet, after glaring
at her for a moment, he sat down fuming, and removed his boots. She smiled.

"That'll do nicely, sir. Now if you don't mind coming very quietly--"

She glided to the door of the drawing-room, opened it noiselessly and beckoned to Melrose.
He went in, and, against his will, he went on tiptoe, and holding his breath.

Inside, he looked round the darkened room in angry amazement. It had been wholly transformed.
The open windows had been cleaned and curtained; the oak floor shone as though it had been
recently washed; there was a table on which were medicine bottles and glasses, with a chair
or two; while in the centre of the room, carefully screened from light, was a white bed. Upon
it, a motionless form.

"Poor young fellow!" whispered the nurse, standing beside Melrose, her kind face softening.
"He has been conscious a little to-day--the doctor is hopeful. But he has been very badly hurt."

Melrose surveyed him--the interloper!--who represented to him at that moment one of those unexpected
checks and annoyances in life, which selfish men with strong wills cannot and do not attempt
to bear. His privacy, his habits, his freedom--all at the mercy of this white-faced boy, these
two intolerable women, and the still more intolerable doctor, on whom he intended to inflect
a stinging lesson! No doubt the whole thing had been done by the wretched pill-man with a view
to his own fees. It was a plant!--an infamous conspiracy.

He came closer. Not a boy, after all. A young man of thirty--perhaps more. The brow and head
were covered with bandages; the eyes were closed; the bloodless mouth hung slightly open, with
a look of pain. The comeliness of the dark, slightly bearded face was not entirely disguised
by the dressings in which the head was swathed; and the chest and arms, from which the bedclothes
had been folded back, were finely, though sparely, moulded. Melrose, whose life was spent among
artistic objects was not insensible to the young man's good looks, as they were visible even
under his bandages and in the dim light, and for the first time he felt a slight stir of pity.

He left the room, beckoning to the night nurse.

"What's his name?"

"We took some cards from his pocket. I think, sir, the doctor put them here for you to see."

The nurse went to the hall table and brought one.

"Claude Faversham, 5 Temple Buildings, E.C."

"Some young loafer, pretending to be a barrister," said Melrose contemptuously. "What's he
doing here--in May? This is not the tourist season. What business had he to be here at all?
I have no doubt whatever that he was drunk, otherwise why should he have had an accident? Nobody
else ever had an accident on that hill. Why should he, eh? Why should he? And how the deuce
are we to get at his relations?"

The nurse could only reply that she had no ideas on the subject, and had hardly spoken when
the sound of wheels outside brought a look of relief to her face.

"That's the ice," she said, rejoicingly. "We sent for it to Pengarth this afternoon."

And she fled on light steps to the front door.

"Sent whom? My man--My cart!" growled Melrose, following her, to verify the outrage with his
own eyes. And there indeed at the steps stood the light cart, the only vehicle which the master
of the Tower possessed, driven by his only outdoor servant, Joe Backhouse, who had succeeded
Dixon as gardener. It was full of packages, which the nurse was eagerly taking out, comparing
them with a list she held in her hand.

"And of course I'm to pay for them!" thought Melrose furiously. No doubt his credit has been
pledged up to the hilt already for this intruder, this beggar at his gates by these impertinent
women. He stood there watching every packet and bundle with which the nurse was loading her
strong arms, feeling himself the while an utterly persecuted and injured being, the sport of
gods and men; when the sight of a motor turning the corner of the grass-grown drive, diverted
his thoughts.

The doctor--the arch-villain of the plot!

Melrose bethought himself a moment. Then he went along the corridor to his library, half expecting
to see some other invader ensconced in his own chair. He rang the bell and Dixon hurriedly
appeared.

"Show Doctor Undershaw in here."

And standing on the rug, every muscle in his tall and still vigorous frame tightening in expectation
of the foe, he looked frowning round the chaos of his room. Pictures, with or without frames,
and frames without pictures; books in packing-cases with hinged sides, standing piled one upon
another, some closed and some with the sides open and showing the books within; portfolios
of engravings and drawings; inlaid or ivory boxes, containing a medley of objects--miniatures,
snuff-boxes, buttons, combs, seals; vases and plates of blue and white Nankin; an Italian stucco
or two; a Renaissance bust in painted wood; fragments of stuff, cabinets, chairs, and tables
of various dates and styles--all were gathered together in one vast and ugly confusion. It
might have been a salone in one of the big curiosity shops of Rome or Venice, where the wrecks
and sports of centuries are heaped into the piano nobile of some great building, once a palazzo,
now a chain of lumber rooms. For here also, the large and stately library, with its nobly designed
bookcases--still empty of books--its classical panelling, and embossed ceiling, made a setting
of which the miscellaneous plunder within it was not worthy. A man of taste would have conceived
the beautiful room itself as suffering from the disorderly uses to which it was put.

Only, in the centre, the great French table, the masterpiece of Riesener, still stood respected
and unencumbered. It held nothing but a Sèvres inkstand and pair of candle-sticks that had
once belonged to Madame Elisabeth. Mrs. Dixon dusted it every morning, with a feather brush,
generally under the eyes of Melrose. He himself regarded it with a fanatical veneration; and
one of the chief pleasures of his life was to beguile some passing dealer into making an offer
for it, and then contemptuously show him the door.

"Doctor Undershaw, Muster Melrose."

Melrose stood to arms.

A young man entered, his step quick and decided. He was squarely built, with spectacled gray
eyes, and a slight brown moustache on an otherwise smooth face. He looked what he was--competent,
sincere, and unafraid.

Melrose did not move from his position as the doctor approached, and barely acknowledged his
bow. Behind the sarcasm of his voice the inner fury could be felt.

"I presume, sir, you have come to offer me your apologies?"

Undershaw looked up.

"I am very sorry, Mr. Melrose, to have inconvenienced you and your household. But really after
such an accident there was nothing else to be done. I am certain you would have done the same
yourself. When I first saw him, the poor fellow was in a dreadful state. The only thing to
do was to carry him into the nearest shelter and look after him. It was--I assure you--a case
of life and death."

Melrose made an effort to control himself, but the situation was too much for him.

He burst out, storming:

"I wonder, sir, that you have the audacity to present yourself to me at all. Who or what authorized
you, I should like to know, to take possession of my house, and install this young man here?
What have I to do with him? He has no claim on me--not the hundredth part of a farthing! My
servant tells me he offered to help you carry him to the farm, which is only a quarter of a
mile distant. That of course would have been the reasonable, the gentlemanly thing to do, but
just in order to insult me, to break into the privacy of a man who, you know, has always endeavoured
to protect himself and his life from vulgar tongues and eyes, you must needs browbeat my servants,
and break open my house. I tell you, sir, this is a matter for the lawyers! It shan't end here.
I've sent for an ambulance, and I'll thank you to make arrangements at once to remove this
young man to some neighbouring hospital, where, I understand, he will have every attention."

Melrose, even at seventy, was over six feet, and as he stood towering above the little doctor,
his fine gray hair flowing back from strong aquiline features, inflamed with a passion of wrath,
he made a sufficiently magnificent appearance. Undershaw grew a little pale, but he fronted
his accuser quietly.

"If you wish him removed, Mr. Melrose, you must take the responsibility yourself, I shall have
nothing to do with it--nor will the nurses."

"What do you mean, sir? You get yourself and me into this d----d hobble, and then you refuse
to take the only decent way out of it! I request you--I command you--as soon as the Whitebeck
ambulance comes, to remove your patient at once, and the two women who are looking after him."

Undershaw slipped his hands into his pockets. The coolness of the gesture was not lost on Melrose.

"I regret that for a few days to come I cannot sanction anything of the kind. My business,
Mr. Melrose, as a doctor, is not to kill people, but, if I can, to cure them."

"Don't talk such nonsense to me, sir! Every one knows that any serious case can be safely removed
in a proper ambulance. The whole thing is monstrous! By G--d, sir, what law obliges me to give
up my house to a man I know nothing about, and a whole tribe of hangers-on, besides?"

And, fairly beside himself, Melrose struck a carved chest, standing within reach, a blow which
made the china and glass objects huddled upon it ring again.

"Well," said Undershaw slowly, "there is such a thing as--a law of humanity. But I imagine
if you turn out that man against my advice, and he dies on the road to hospital, that some
other kind of law might have something to say to it."

"You refuse!"

The shout made the little doctor, always mindful of his patient, look behind him, to see that
the door was closed.

"He cannot be moved for three or four days," was the firm reply. "The chances are that he would
collapse on the road. But as soon as ever the thing is possible you shall be relieved of him.
I can easily find accommodation for him at Pengarth. At present he is suffering from very severe
concussion. I hope there is not actual brain lesion--but there may be. And, if so, to move
him now would be simply to destroy his chance of recovery."

The two men confronted each other, the unreasonable fury of the one met by the scientific conscience
of the other. Melrose was dumfounded by the mingled steadiness and audacity of the little doctor.
His mad self-will, his pride of class and wealth, surviving through all his eccentricities,
found it unbearable that Undershaw should show no real compunction whatever for what he had
done, nay, rather, a quiet conviction that, rage as he might, the owner of Threlfall Tower
would have to submit. It was indeed the suggestion in the doctor's manner, of an unexplained
compulsion behind--ethical or humanitarian--not to be explained, but simply to be taken for
granted, which perhaps infuriated Melrose more than anything else.

Nevertheless, as he still glared at his enemy, Melrose suddenly realized that the man was right.
He would have to submit. For many reasons, he could not--at this moment in particular--excite
any fresh hue and cry which might bring the whole countryside on his back. Unless the doctor
were lying, and he could get another of the craft to certify it, he would have to put up--for
the very minimum of time--with the intolerable plague of this invasion.

He turned away abruptly, took a turn up and down the only free space the room contained, and
returned.

"Perhaps you will kindly inform me, sir--since you have been good enough to take this philanthropic
business on yourself--or rather to shovel it on to me"--each sarcastic word was flung like
a javelin at the doctor--"whether you know anything whatever of this youth you are thrusting
upon me? I don't imagine that he has dropped from the skies! If you don't know, and haven't
troubled yourself to find out, I shall set the police on at once, track his friends, and hand
him over!"

Undershaw was at once all civility and alacrity.

"I have already made some inquiries at Keswick, Mr. Melrose, where I was this morning. He was
staying, it appears, with some friends at the Victoria Hotel--a Mr. and Mrs. Ransom, Americans.
The hotel people thought that he had been to meet them at Liverpool, had taken them through
the Lakes, and had then seen them off for the south. He himself was on his way to Scotland
to fish. He had sent his luggage to Pengarth by rail, and chose to bicycle, himself, through
the Vale of St. John, because the weather was so fine. He intended to catch a night train on
the main line."

"Just as I supposed! Idle scapegrace!--with nothing in the world to do but to get himself and
other people into trouble!"

"You saw the card that I left for you on the hall table? But there is something else that we
found upon him in undressing him which I should greatly prefer, if I might, to hand over to
your care. You, I have no doubt, understand such things. They seem to be valuable, and neither
the nurses nor I at all wish to have charge of them. There is a ring"--Undershaw searched his
pockets--"and this case."

He held out two small objects. Melrose--still breathing quick with anger--took them unwillingly.
With the instinctive gesture of the collector, however, he put up his eyeglass to look at the
ring. Undershaw saw him start.

"Good heavens!"

The voice was that of another man. He looked frowning at Undershaw.

"Where did you get this?"

"He wore it on his left hand. It is sharp as you see, and rather large, and the nurse was afraid,
while he is still restless and sometimes delirious, he might do himself some hurt with it."

Melrose opened the case--a small flat case of worn green leather some six inches long; and
looked at its contents in a speechless amazement. The ring was a Greek gem of the best period--an
Artemis with the towered crown, cut in amethyst. The case contained six pieces,--two cameos,
and four engraved gems--amethyst, cornelian, sardonyx, and rock crystal; which Melrose recognized
at once as among the most precious things of this kind in the world! He turned abruptly, walked
to his writing-table, took out the gems, weighed them in his hand, examined them with a magnifying
glass, or held them to the light, muttering to himself, and apparently no longer conscious
of the presence of Undershaw. Recollections ran about his brain: "Mackworth showed me that
Medusa himself last year in London. He bought that Mars at the Castellani sale. And that's
the Muse which that stupid brute Vincent had my commission for, and let slip through his fingers
at the Arconati sale!"

Undershaw observed him, with an amusement carefully concealed. He had suspected from the beginning
that in these possessions of the poor stricken youth means might be found for taming the formidable
master of the Tower. For himself he scorned "la curiosité," and its devotees, as mere triflers
and shell-gatherers on shores bathed by the great ocean of science. But like all natural rulers
of men he was quick to seize on any weakness that suited his own ends; and he said to himself
that Faversham was safe.

"They are valuable?" he asked, as Melrose still sat absorbed.

"They are," was the curt reply.

"I am glad they have fallen into such good hands. They show I think"--the speaker smiled amicably--"that
we have not to do with any mere penniless adventurer. His friends are probably at this moment
extremely anxious about him. I hope we may soon get some clue to them. Now"--the voice sharpened
to the practical note--"may I appeal to you, Mr. Melrose, to make arrangements for the nurses
as soon as is convenient to you. Their wants are very simple--two beds--plain food--small amount
of attendance--and some means of communicating without too much delay with myself, or the chemist.
I promise they shall give as little trouble as possible!"

Melrose rose slowly without replying. He took a bunch of keys from is pocket, and opened one
of the drawers in the Riesener table. As he did so, the drawer, under a stream of sunset light
from the window beyond it, seemed to give out a many-coloured flash--a rapid Irislike effect,
lost in a moment. The impression made on Undershaw was that the drawer already contained gems
like those in the case--or jewels--or both.

Melrose seemed to have opened the drawer in a fit of abstraction during which he had forgotten
Undershaw's presence. But, if so, the act roused him, and he looked round half angrily, half
furtively at his visitor, as he hastily relocked the drawer.

Then speaking with renewed arrogance, he said:

"Well, sir, I will see to these things. For to-night, I consent--for to-night only, mind you--reserving
entirely my liberty of action for to-morrow."

Undershaw nodded, and they left the room together.

Dixon and Mrs. Dixon were both waiting in the passage outside, watching for Melrose, and hanging
on his aspect. To their amazement they were told that a room was to be got ready for the nurses,
a girl was to be fetched to wait on them from the farm, and food was to be cooked.

The faces of both the old servants showed instant relief. Dixon went off to the farm, and Mrs.
Dixon flew to her kitchen. She was getting old, and the thought of the extra work to be done
oppressed her. Nevertheless after these years of solitude, passed as it were in a besieged
camp--Threlfall and its inmates against the world--this new and tardy contact with humanity,
this momentary return to neighbourly, kindly ways brought with it a strange sweetness. And
when night fell, and a subdued, scarcely perceptible murmur of life began to creep about the
passages of the old house, in general so dead and silent, Mrs. Dixon might have been heard
hoarsely crooning an old song to herself as she went to and fro in the kitchen. All the evening
she and Dixon were restless, inventing work, when work was finished, running from yard to house
and house to yard, calling to each other without reason, and looking at each other with bewildered
eyes. They were like beetles under a stone, when the stone is suddenly lifted.

Gradually the house sank to rest. Dixon creeping past the door of the sick-room, on his stockinged
feet, could hear the moaning, the hoarse indeterminate sounds, now loud, now plaintive, made
by the sufferer. The day nurse came out with an anxious face, on her way to bed. Mr. Faversham
she said was very ill--what could be done if it did become necessary to summon the doctor?
Dixon assured her the gardener who was also the groom was sleeping in the house, and the horse
was in the stable. She had only to wake Mrs. Dixon--he showed her where and how. In the dark
corridor, amid all its obstructive lumber, these two people who had never seen each other before,
man and woman, took anxious counsel for the help of an unconscious third, a complete stranger
to both of them.

The night nurse gave a dose of morphia according to directions, and sat down on a low chair
at the foot of the bed watching her patient.

About two o'clock in the morning, just as the darkness was beginning to thin, she was startled
by a sound outside. She half rose, and saw the door open to admit a tall and gaunt figure,
whom she recognized as the master of the house.

She held up an anxious finger, but Melrose advanced in spite of it. His old flowered dressing-gown
and gray head came within the range of the night-light, and the nurse saw his shadow projected,
grotesque and threatening, on the white traceries of the ceiling. But he made no sound, and
never looked at the nurse. He stood surveying young Faversham for some time, as he lay hot
and haggard with fever, yet sleeping under the power of morphia. And at last, without a word,
the nurse saw her formidable visitor depart.

Melrose returned to his own quarters. The window of his room was open, and outside the great
mountains, in a dewy dawn, were beginning to show purple through dim veils of silvery cloud.
He stood still, looking out. His mind was churning like a yeasty sea. Old facts came to the
surface; faces once familiar; the form and countenance of a brother drowned at twenty in Sandford
lasher on the Oxford Thames; friends of his early manhood, riding beside him to hounds, or
over the rolling green of the Campagna. Old instincts long suppressed, yet earlier and more
primitive in him than those of the huckster and the curio-hunter, stirred uneasily. It was
true that he was getting old, and had been too long alone. He thought with vindictive bitterness
of Netta, who had robbed and deserted him. And then, again, of his involuntary guest.

The strangest medley of ideas ran through his mind. Self-pity; recollections connected with
habits on which he had deliberately turned his back some thirty years before--the normal pleasures,
friendships, occupations of English society; fanatical hatred and resentment--against two women
in particular, the first of whom had, in his opinion, deliberately spoilt his life by a double
cruelty, while the second--his wife--whom he had plucked up out of poverty, and the dust-heap
of her disreputable relations, had ungratefully and wickedly rebelled against and deserted him.

Also--creeping through all his thoughts, like a wandering breeze in the dark, stole again and
again the chilling consciousness of old age--and of the end, waiting. He was fiercely tenacious
of life, and his seventieth birthday had rung a knell in his ears that still sounded. So defiant
was he of death, that he had never yet brought himself to make a will. He would not admit to
himself that he was mortal; or make arrangements that seemed to admit the grim fact--weakly
accepted--into the citadel of a still warm life.

Yet the physical warnings of old age had not been absent. Some day he would feel, perhaps suddenly--the
thought of it sent through him a shiver of impotent revolt against the human destiny--the clutch
of the master whom none escapes.

Vague feelings, and shapeless terrors!--only subterraneously connected with the wounded man
lying in his house.

And yet they were connected. The advent of the unconscious youth below had acted on the ugly
stagnation of the Threlfall life with a touch of crystallizing force. Melrose felt it in his
own way no less than the Dixons. Something seemed to have ended; and the mere change suggested
that something might begin.

The sudden shock, indeed, of the new event, the mere interruption of habit, were serious matters
in the psychology of a man, with whom neither brain nor nerves were normally attuned. Melrose
moved restlessly about his room for a great part of the night. He could not get the haggard
image of Faversham out of his mind; and he was actually, in the end, tormented by the thought
that, in spite of nurses and doctors, he might die.

Nonsense! One could get a specialist from Edinburgh--from London if necessary.

And always, by whatever road, his thoughts came back--as it were leaping--to the gems. Amethyst,
sardonyx, crystal--they twinkled and flashed through all the byways of the brain. So long as
the house held their owner, it held them also. Two of them he had coveted for years. They must
not--they should not--be lost to him again. By what ridiculous chance had this lad got hold
of them?

With the morning came a letter from a crony of Melrose's in London, an old Fellow of the Society
of Antiquaries, with whom he had had not a few dealings in the past.

"Have you heard that that queer fish Mackworth has left his whole cabinet of gems to a young
nephew--his sister's son, to whom they say he has been much attached? Everything else goes
to the British Museum and South Kensington, and it is a queer business to have left the most
precious thing of all to a youth who in all probability has neither knowledge nor taste, and
may be trusted to turn them into cash as soon as possible. Do you remember the amethyst Medusa?
I could shout with joy when I think of it! You will be wanting to run the nephew to earth.
Make haste!--or Germany or America will grab them."

But the amethyst Medusa lay safe in her green case in the drawer of the Riesener table.

V

Duddon Castle in May was an agreeable place. Its park, lying on the eastern slopes of the mountain
mass which includes Skiddaw and Blencathra, had none of the usual monotony of parks, but was
a genuine "chase," running up on the western side into the heather and rock of the mountain
where the deer were at home, while on the east and south its splendid oaks stood thick in bracken
beside sparkling becks, overlooking dells and valleys of succulent grass where the sheep ranged
at will. The house consisted of an early Tudor keep, married to a Jacobean house of rose-coloured
brick, which Lady Tatham had since her widowhood succeeded in freeing from the ugly stucco
which had once disguised and defaced it. It could not claim the classical charm, the learned
elegance of Threlfall Tower. Duddon was romantic--a medley of beautiful things, full of history,
colour, and time, fused by the trees and fern, the luxuriant creepers and mosses, and of a
mild and rainy climate into a lovely irregular whole; with no outline to speak of, yet with
nothing that one could seriously wish away. The size was great, yet no one but an auctioneer
could have called it "superb"; it seemed indeed to take a pleasure in concealing the whole
extent of its clustered building; and by the time you were aware of it, you had fallen in love
with Duddon, and nothing mattered.

But if without, in its broad external features, Duddon betrayed a romantic freedom in the minds
of those who had planned it, nothing could have been more orderly or exquisite than its detail,
when detail had to be considered. The Italian garden round the house with its formal masses
of contrasting colour, its pleached alleys, and pergolas, its steps, vases, and fountains,
was as good in its way as the glorious wildness of the Chase. One might have applied to it
the Sophoclean thought--"How clever is man who can make all these things!"--so diverse, and
so pleasant. And indoors, Duddon was oppressive by the very ingenuity of its refinement, the
rightness of every touch. No overcrowding; no ostentation. Beautiful spaces, giving room and
dignity to a few beautiful objects; famous pictures, yet not too many; and, in general, things
rather suggestive than perfect; sketches--fragments--from the great arts of the world; as it
were, a lovely wreckage from a vast ocean set tenderly in a perfect order, breathing at once
the greatness and the eternal defeat of men.

The interior beauty of Duddon was entirely due to Victoria, Lady Tatham, mother of the young
man who now owned the Tatham estates. She had created it through many years; she had been terribly
"advised," in the process, by a number of clever folk, English and foreign; and the result
alternately pleased and tormented her. To be fastidious to such a point is to grow more so.
And Victoria Tatham was nothing if not fastidious. She had money, taste, patience, yet ennui
confronted her in many paths; and except for the son she adored she was scarcely a happy woman.
She was personally generous and soft-hearted, but all "causes" found in her rather a critic
than a supporter. The follies of her own class were particularly plain to her; her relations,
with their great names, and great "places," seemed to her often the most ridiculous persons
in the world--a world no longer made for them. But one must hasten to add that she was no less
aware of her own absurdities; so that the ironic mind in her robbed her both of conceit for
herself and enthusiasm for others.

Two or three days after the storming of Threlfall Tower, Lady Tatham came in from a mountain
ramble at tea-time, expecting her son, who had been away on a short visit. She entered the
drawing-room by a garden door, laden with branches of hawthorn and wild cherry. In her linen
dress and shady hat she still looked youthful, and there were many who could not be got to
admit that she was any less beautiful than she had ever been. These flatterers of course belonged
to her own generation; young eyes were not so kind.

Tea had been brought in, and she was busy with the arrangement of a branch of wild cherry in
a corner of the room where its pearl and silver blossoms shone out against a background of
dull purple, when the door was hastily opened, and a curly-haired youth stood on the threshold
who smiled at sight of her.

"You are here, mother! That's jolly! I thought I might find you gone."

"I put off London till next week. Mind my hat, you wretch."

For the young fellow had put his arms round her, kissing her heartily. She disengaged herself
and her hat, affecting to scold; but her eyes betrayed her. She put up her hand and smoothed
back the thick and tumbling hair from his forehead.

"What a ruffian you look! Where have you been all this time?"

"I stopped in Keswick to do various things--and then--I say, shan't we have some tea? I've
got lots to tell you. Well, in the first place, mother, I'd better warn you, you may have some
visitors directly!"

Lady Tatham opened her eyes, struck by the elation of the tone.

"Strangers?"

"Well, nearly--but I think you've seen them. You know that lady and her daughters who came
to White Cottage about two years ago?"

"A Mrs. Penfold?"

"Just so. I told you I met them--in April, when you were abroad--at the Hunt Ball. But--well,
really, I've met them several times since. The Deacons know them." The slight consciousness
in the voice did not escape his mother. "You know you've never called on them. Mother, you
are disgraceful about calling! Well, I met them again this afternoon, just the other side of
Whitebeck. They were in a pony-carriage, and I was in the motor. It's a jolly afternoon, and
they didn't seem to have anything particular to do, so I just asked them to come on here, and
have tea, and we'd show them the place."

"All right, dear. I'll bear up. Do you think they'll come?"

"Well, I don't know," said her son dubiously. "You see--I think Miss Penfold thought you ought
to have called on them before they came here! But Mrs. Penfold's a nice old thing--she said
they'd come."

"Well, there's plenty of tea, and I'll go and call if you want me to."

"How many years?" laughed Tatham. "I remember somebody you took eight years to call on, and
when you got there you'd forgotten their names."

"Pure invention. Never mind, sit down and have your tea. How many daughters?"

"How many Miss Penfolds? Well, there are two, and I danced with them both. But"--the young
man shook his head slowly--"I haven't got any use for the elder one."

"Plain?"

"Not at all--rather pretty. But she talks philosophy and stuff. Not my sort."

"And the younger one doesn't talk philosophy?"

"Not she. She's a deal too clever. But she paints--like a bird. I've seen some of her things."

"Oh!--so you've been to call?"

Lady Tatham lifted her beautiful eyes upon her son. Harry Tatham fidgeted with his cup and spoon.

"No. I was shy, because you hadn't been. But--"

"Harry," interrupted his mother, her look all vivacity, "did she paint those two water-colours
in your sitting-room?"

The boyish, bluntly cut face beside her broke into a charming laugh.

"I bought 'em out of the Edinburgh exhibition. Wasn't it 'cute of me? She told me she had sent
them there. So I just wrote to the secretary and bought them."

There was silence a moment. Lady Tatham continued to look at her son. The eyebrows on her brow,
as they slowly arched themselves, expressed the half-amused, half-startled inquiry she did
not put into words. He flushed scarlet, still smiling, and suddenly he laid his hand on hers.

"I say, mummie, don't tease me, and don't talk to me about it. There may be nothing in it--nothing
at all."

His mother's face deepened into gravity.

"You take my breath away. Remember--there's only me, Harry, to look after you."

"I know. But you're not like other mothers," said the youth impatiently. "You want me to be
happy and please myself. At least if you'd wanted the usual thing, you should have brought
me up differently!" He smiled upon her again, patting her hand.

"What do you mean by the 'usual thing'?"

"Well, family and money, I suppose. As if we hadn't got enough for ten!"

Lady Tatham hesitated.

"One talks in the air," she said, frowning a little. "I can't promise you, Harry, exactly how
I should behave, if--"

"If what?"

"If you put me to the test."

"Oh, yes, you can," he said, affectionately. Then he got up restlessly from the table. "But
don't let's talk about it. Somehow I can't stand it--yet. I just wanted you to know that I
liked them--and I'd be glad if you'd be civil to them--that's all. Hullo--here they are!" For
as he moved across the room he caught sight, through a side window commanding the park, of
a pony-carriage just driving into the wide gravel space before the house.

"Already? Their pony must have seven-leagued boots, to have caught you up in this time."

"Oh! I was overtaken by Undershaw, and he kept me talking. He told me the most extraordinary
thing! You've no idea what's been happening at the Tower. That old brute Melrose! But I say--!"
He made a dash across the room.

"What's the matter?"

"I must go and put those pictures away, in case--"

A far door opened and shut noisily behind him. He was gone.

"In case he asks her to go and see his sitting-room? This is all very surprising."

Lady Tatham sat on at the tea-table, her chin in her hands. It was quite true that she had
brought up her son with unconventional ideas; that she had unconventional ideas herself on
family and marriage. All the same, her mind at this moment was in a most conventional state
of shock. She knew it, perceiving quite clearly the irony of the situation. Who were the Penfolds?
A little artist girl?--earning her living--with humble, perhaps hardly presentable relations--to
mate with her glorious, golden Harry?--Harry whom half the ambitious mothers of England courted
and flattered?

The thought of defeating the mothers of England was however so pleasant to her sense of humour
that she hurriedly abandoned this line of reflection. What had she been about? to be so blind
to Harry's proceedings? She had been lately absorbed, with that intensity she could still,
at fifty, throw into the most diverse things, in a piece of new embroidery, reproducing a gorgeous
Italian design; and in a religious novel of Fogazzaro's. Also she had been watching birds,
for hours, with a spy-glass in the park. She said to herself that she had better have been
watching her son.

Meanwhile she was quite aware of the slight sounds from the hall which heralded the approaching
visitors. The footman threw the door open; and she rose.

There came in, with hurrying steps, a little lady in widow's dress, her widow's veil thrown
back from her soft brown hair and childish face. Behind her, a tall girl in white, wearing
a shady hat.

The little lady held out a hand--eager but tremulous.

"I hope, Lady Tatham, we are not intruding? We know it isn't correct--indeed we are quite aware
of it--that we should call upon you first. But then we know your son--he is such a charming
young man!--and he asked us to come. I don't think Lydia wanted to come--she always wants to
do things properly. No, indeed, she didn't want to come. It's all my doing. I persuaded her."

"That was very kind of you," said Lady Tatham as she shook hands first with the mother, and
then with the silent daughter. "Oh, I'm a dreadful neighbour. I confess it in sackcloth and
ashes. I ought to have called upon you long ago. I don't know what to say. I'm incorrigible!
Please will you sit down, and will you have some tea? My son will be here directly."

But instead of sitting down Mrs. Penfold ran to the window, exclaiming on the beauty of the
view, the garden, the trees, and the bold profile of the old keep, thrown forward among the
flowers. There was nothing the least distinguished in her ecstasy. But it flowed and bubbled
with perfect sincerity; and Lady Tatham did not dislike it at all.

"A lady"--she thought--"quite a lady, though rather a goose. The daughter is uncomfortable."

And she glanced at the slightly flushed face of Lydia, who followed in their wake, every now
and then replying, as politeness demanded, to some appeal from her mother. It was indeed clear
that the visit had been none of her doing.

Grace?--personality?--Lady Tatham divined them, from the way the girl moved, from the look
in her gray-blue eyes, from the carriage of her head. She was certainly pretty, with that proud
virginal beauty which often bears itself on the defensive, in our modern world where a certain
superfluity of women has not tended to chivalry. But how little prettiness matters, beside
the other thing!--the indefinable, irresistible something--which gives the sceptre and the
crown! All the time she was listening to Mrs. Penfold's chatter, and the daughter's occasional
words, Victoria Tatham was on the watch for this something; and not without jealousy and a
critical mind. She had been taken by surprise; and she resented it.

Harry was very long in coming back!--in order she supposed to give her time to make acquaintance.

But at last she had them at the tea-table, and Mrs. Penfold's adjectives were a little quenched.
Each side considered the other. Lady Tatham's dress, her old hat, and country shoes attracted
Lydia, no less than the boyish, open-air look, which still survived through all the signs of
a complex life and a cosmopolitan experience. Mrs. Penfold, on her part, thought the old hat,
and the square-toed shoes "unsuitable." In her young days great ladies "dressed" in the afternoons.

"Do you like your cottage?" Lady Tatham inquired.

Mrs. Penfold replied that nothing could be more to their taste--except for the motors and the dust.

"Ah! that's my fault," said a voice behind her. "All motorists are brutes. I say, it was jolly
of you to come!"

So saying, Tatham found a place between his mother and Mrs. Penfold, looking across at Lydia.
Youth, happiness, manly strength came in with him. He had no features to speak of--round cheeks,
a mouth generally slightly open, and given to smiling, a clear brow, a red and white complexion,
a babyish chin, thick fair hair, and a countenance neither reserved nor foolishly indiscreet.
Tatham's physical eminence--and it was undisputed--lay not in his plain, good-tempered face,
but in the young perfection of his athlete's form. Among spectacles, his mother, at least,
asked nothing better than to see him on horseback or swinging a golf-club.

"How did you come?--through the Glendarra woods?" he asked of Lydia. The delight in his eyes
as he turned them upon her was already evident to his mother.

Lydia assented.

"Then you saw the rhododendrons? Jolly, aren't they?"

Lydia replied with ardour. There is a place in the Glendarra woods, where the oaks and firs
fall away to let a great sheet of rhododendrons sweep up from the lowland into a mountain boundary
of gray crag and tumbling fern. Rose-pink, white and crimson, the waves of colour roll among
the rocks, till Cumbria might seem Kashmir. Lydia's looks sparkled, as she spoke of it. The
artist in her had feasted.

"Won't you come and paint it?" said Tatham bending forward eagerly. "You'd make a glorious
thing of it. Mother could send a motor for you so easily. Couldn't you, mother?"

"Delighted," said Lady Tatham, rather perfunctorily. "They are just in their glory--they ought
to be painted."

"Thank you so much!"--Lydia's tone was a little hurried--"but I have so many subjects on hand
just now."

"Oh, but nothing half so beautiful as that, Lydia!" cried her mother, "or so uncommon. And
they'll be over directly. If Lady Tatham would really send the motor for you--"

Lydia murmured renewed thanks. Tatham, observing her, retreated, with a laugh and a flush.

"I say, we mustn't bother you to paint what we like. That would be too bad."

Lydia smiled upon him.

"I'm so busy with a big view of the river and Threlfall."

"Threlfall? Oh, do you know--mother! do you know what's been happening at Threlfall. Undershaw
told me. The most marvellous thing!" He turned to Mrs. Penfold. "You've heard the stories they
tell about here of old Melrose?"

Lydia laughed softly.

"Mother collects them!"

Mrs. Penfold confessed that, being a timid person, she went in fear, sometimes of Mr. Melrose,
sometimes of his bloodhounds. She did not like passing the gate of Threlfall, and the high
wall round the estate made her shudder. Of course the person that put up that wall must be mad.

"A queer sort of madman!" said Tatham, with a shrug. "They say he gets richer every year in
spite of the state of the property. And meanwhile no human being, except himself or the Dixons,
has ever slept in that house, or taken bite or sup in it for at least twenty years. And as
for his behaviour to everybody round about--well, I can tell you all about that whenever you
want to know! However, now they've stormed him--they've smoked him out like a wasp's nest.
My goodness--he did buzz! Undershaw found a man badly hurt, lying on the road by the bridge--bicycle
accident--run over too, I believe--and carried him into the Tower, willy-nilly!" The speaker
chuckled. "Melrose was away. Old Dixon said they should only come in over his body--but was
removed. Undershaw got four labourers to help him, and, by George, they carried the man in!
They found the drawing-room downstairs empty, no furniture in it, or next to none--turned it
into a bedroom in no time. Undershaw telegraphed for a couple of nurses--and when Melrose came
home next day--tableau! There was a jolly row! Undershaw enjoyed it. I'd have given anything
in the world to be there. And Melrose'll have to stick it out they say for weeks and weeks--the
fellow's so badly hurt--and--"

Lydia interrupted him.

"What did Doctor Undershaw say of him to-day?"

She bent forward across the tea-table, speaking earnestly.

Tatham looked at her in surprise.

"The report is better. Had you heard about it?"

"I must have seen him just before the accident--"

"Lydia! I never understood," said Mrs. Penfold rather bewildered.

Lydia explained that she too had seen Doctor Undershaw that morning, on his way to the Tower,
in Whitebeck village, and he had told her the story. She was particularly interested, because
of the little meeting by the river, which she described in a few words. Twenty minutes or so
after her conversation with the stranger the accident must have happened.

Mrs. Penfold meanwhile was thinking, "Why didn't Lydia tell me all this on the drive?" Then
she remembered one of Lydia's characteristics--a kind of passionate reticence about things
that moved her. Had the fate then of the young man--whom she could only have seen for a few
minutes--touched her so much?

Lady Tatham had listened attentively to Lydia's story--the inner mind of her all the time closely
and critically observant of the story-teller, her beauty, the manner and quality of it, her
movements, her voice. Her voice particularly. When the girl's little speech came to an end,
Victoria still had the charm of it in her ears.

"Does any one know the man's name?" she inquired.

"I forgot to ask Undershaw," said Tatham.

Lydia supplied the information. The name of the young man was Claude Faversham. He seemed to
have no relations whatever who could come and nurse him.

"Claude Faversham!" Tatham turned upon her with astonishment. "I say! I know a Claude Faversham.
I was a term with him at Oxford--at least if it's the same man. Tall?--dark?--good-looking?"

Lydia thought the adjectives fitted.

"He had the most beautiful ring!" she added. "I noticed it when he was tying up my easel."

"A ring!" cried Tatham, wrinkling up his forehead. "By George, that is odd! I remember Faversham's
ring perfectly. An uncle gave it him--an old Professor at Oxford, who used to collect things.
My tutor sent me to a lecture once, when I was in for schools. Mackworth--that was the old
boy's name--was lecturing, and Faversham came down to help him show his cases. Faversham's
own ring was supposed to be something special, and Mackworth talked no end about it. Goodness!--so
that's the man. Of course I must go and see him!--ask after him anyway."

But the tone had grown suddenly dubious. Lady Tatham's eyebrows rose slightly.

"Go to Threlfall, Harry?"

"Well, not to call on Melrose, mother! I should have to make sure he was out of the way. But
I feel as if I ought to do something about Faversham. The fact is he did me a great kindness
my first term at Oxford--he got me into a little club I wanted to belong to."

"Oh, but you could belong to any club you wished!" cried Mrs. Penfold.

Tatham laughed and coloured. Lady Tatham slipped the slightest look at Lydia.

"Not at all. Faversham was awfully useful. I must see what can be done. He can't stay on at
that place."

"You never go to Threlfall?" Mrs. Penfold addressed her hostess.

"Never," said Lady Tatham quietly. "Mr. Melrose is impossible."

"I should jolly well think he is!" said Tatham; "the most grasping and tyrannical old villain!
He's got a business on now of the most abominable kind. I have been hearing the whole story
this week. A man who dared to county court him for some perfectly just claim. And Melrose in
revenge has simply ruined him. Then there's a right of way dispute going on--scandalous!--nothing
to do with me!--but I'm helping other people to fight him. And his cottages!--you never saw
such pigsties! He's defied every sort of inspector. I believe everybody's afraid of him. And
you can't get a yard of land out of him for any public purpose whatever. Well, now that I'm
on the County Council, I mean to go for him!"

The young man sprang up, apparently to fetch cigarettes, really that he might once more obtain
a full view of Lydia, who had moved from the tea-table to a more distant seat.

Mrs. Penfold waved the silver box aside. "I never learnt"--she said, adding with soft, upturned
eyes--confidingly--"sometimes I wish I did. Oh, Lydia will!"

And Lydia, following Lady Tatham's lead, quietly lit up. Tatham who cherished some rather strict
and old-fashioned notions about women, very imperfectly revealed even to his mother, was momentarily
displeased; then lost himself in the pleasure of watching a white hand and arm--for the day
was hot and sleeves short--in new positions.

Lady Tatham looked round in answer to her son's last words.

"I wish, Harry, you'd leave him alone."

"Who? Melrose? Mother! Oh, I forgot--he's a sort of cousin, isn't he?"

"My second cousin."

"Worse luck! But that's nothing, unless one chooses it shall be. I believe, mother, you know
a heap of things about Melrose you've never told me!"

Lady Tatham smiled faintly, but did not reply. Whereat Mrs. Penfold whose curiosity was insatiable,
within lady-like bounds, tried to ask questions of her hostess. A wife? Surely there had been
a wife?

"Certainly--twenty years ago. I saw her." The answer came readily.

"She ran away?"

"Not in the usual sense. There was no one, I understand, to run with. But she could not stand
Threlfall--nor--I suppose--her husband. So one day--when he had gone to Italy, and she was
left behind--she just--"

"'Elopes--down a ladder of ropes'" laughed Tatham; "and took the child?"

"Yes--and a bronze, worth a thousand pounds."

"Sensible woman! And where are they now?"

Lady Tatham shrugged her shoulders.

"Oh, they can't be alive, surely," said Lydia. "Mr. Melrose told Doctor Undershaw that he had
no relations in the world, and didn't wish to be troubled with any."

Contempt sat on Tatham's ruddy countenance.

"Well, as far as we're concerned, he may take it easy. His family affections don't matter to
anybody! But the way he behaves as a landowner does really matter to all of us. He brings disgrace
on the whole show."

He rose, straightening his young shoulders as he spoke. Lydia noted the modest involuntary
consciousness of power and responsibility which for a moment dignified the boyish countenance;
and as her eyes met his Tatham was startled by the passionate approval expressed in the girl's
look.

She asked if there was no agent on the Melrose estates to temper the tyrannies of their master.

Tatham came to her side--explaining--looking down upon her with an eagerness which had but
a superficial connection with the thing said.

"You see no decent man would ever stay with him. He'd never do the things Melrose does. He'd
cut his hand off first. And if he didn't, the old villain would kick him out in no time. But
that's enough about him, isn't it? I get him on the brain! Won't you come and see the pictures?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The quartet inspecting the house had passed through the principal rooms, and had returned to
the drawing-room. There Tatham said something to Lydia, and they moved away together. His mother
looked after them. Tatham was leading the way toward the door in the farther wall which led
to his own sitting-room. Their young faces were turned toward each other. The girl's shyness
seemed to have broken up. She was now talking fast, with smiles. Ah, no doubt they would have
plenty to say to each other, as soon as they were together.

It was one of the bitter-sweet moments of life. Lady Tatham steadied herself.

"That is a sketch," she said mechanically, "by Burne-Jones, for one of the Pygmalion and Galatea
series. We have one or two others on the same subject."

Mrs. Penfold clasped her small hands in rapture.

"Oh! but how interesting! Do you know I was once Galatea? When I was a girl I used to act a
great deal. Well, not act exactly--for I didn't have to speak. I never could remember my lines.
But I had two great parts. There was Hermione, in 'The Winter's Tale'; and Galatea. I made
hundreds of pounds for hospitals--hundreds. It's not vain now, is it, to say one was pretty
in one's youth?"

"You like remembering it? Some people don't."

"Ah, no, that's wrong! I'd liked to have been beautiful once, if I'm old and ugly now," cried
Mrs. Penfold with fervour. "Of course"--she looked shyly at the sketch--"I had beautiful draperies
on. My Galatea was not like that."

"Draperies?" Lady Tatham laughed. "Pygmalion had only just made her--there had been no time
to dress her."

"We dressed her," said Mrs. Penfold decidedly, "from top to toe. Some day I must show you the
drawings of it--it's not like that at all. The girls think I'm silly to talk of it--oh! they
don't say it--they're very good to me. But I can see they do. Only--they've so many things
to be proud of. Susy's so clever--she knows Greek and all that kind of thing. And Lydia's drawing
is so wonderful. Do you know she has made twenty pounds out of her sketches this week!"

"Capital!" said Lady Tatham smiling.

"Ah, it means a great deal to us! You see"--Mrs. Penfold looked round her--"when you're very
rich, and have everything you want, you can't understand--at least I don't think you can--how
it feels to have twenty pounds you don't expect. Lydia just danced about the room. And I'm
to have a new best dress--she insists on it. Well, you see"--the little pink and white face
of the speaker broke into smiles--"that's all so amusing. It puts one in good spirits. It's
just as though one were rich, and made a thousand pounds. I daresay"--she looked, awestruck,
at the Burne-Jones sketch--"that's worth our whole income. But we're very happy. We never fret.
Lydia and Susy both help in the housework. And I make their blouses."

"How clever of you! That's a Fra Angelico"--said Lady Tatham pointing, and not knowing what
to do with these confidences--"an Annunciation."

Mrs. Penfold thought it quite lovely. Lydia, when she was studying in London, had copied one
like it in the National Gallery. And her poor father had liked it so. As they wandered on through
the pictures, indeed, Lady Tatham soon came to know a great deal about Lydia's "poor father"--that
he had been a naval officer, a Captain Penfold, who had had to retire early on half-pay because
of ill-health, and had died just as the girls had grown up. "He felt it so--he was so proud
of them--but he always said, 'If one of us is to go, why, it had better be me, Rosina--because
you have such spirits--you're so cheerful.' And I am. I can't help it."

It was all sincere. There was neither snobbishness nor affectation in the little widow, even
when she prattled most embarrassingly about her own affairs, or stood frankly wondering at
the Tatham wealth. But no one could deny it was untutored. Lady Tatham thought of all the Honourable
Johns, and Geralds, and Barbaras on the Tatham side--Harry's uncles and cousins--and the various
magnificent people, ranging up to royalty, on her own; and envisaged the moment when Mrs. Penfold
should look them all in the face, with her pretty, foolish eyes, and her chatter about Lydia's
earnings and Lydia's blouses. And not all the inward laughter which the notion provoked in
one to whom life was largely comedy, in the Meredithian sense, could blind her to the fact
that the shock would be severe.

Had she really injured the prospects of her boy by the way--the romantic, idealist way--in
which she had brought him up. Her Harry!--with whom she had read poetry, and talked of heroes,
into whose ears she had poured Ruskin and Carlyle from his youth up; who was the friend and
comrade of all the country folk, because of a certain irrepressible interest in his kind, a
certain selflessness that were his cradle gifts; who shared in his boyish way, her own amused
contempt for shams and shows--had she, after all, been training him for a mistake in the most
serious step of life?

For, like it or despise it, English society was there, and he must fill his place in it. And
things are seemly and unseemly, fitting and unfitting--as well as good and bad. This inexperienced
girl, with her prettiness, and her art, and her small world--was it fair to her? Is there not
something in the unconscious training of birth and position, when, bon gré, mal gré, there
is a big part in the world's social business to be played?

And meanwhile, with a fraction of her mind, she went on talking "Raphaels, Correggios, and
stuff." She did the honours of half their possessions. Then it suddenly seemed to her that
the time was long, and she led the way back once more to the drawing-room, in a rather formidable
silence, of which even her cheerful companion became aware.

But as they entered the room, the door at the farther end opened again, and Tatham and Lydia
emerged.

Good heavens!--had he been proposing already? But a glance dispelled the notion. Lydia was
laughing as they came in, and a little flushed, as though with argument. It seemed to his mother
that Harry's look, on the other hand, was overcast. Had the girl been trampling on him? Impossible!
In any case, there was no denying the quiet ease, the complete self-possession, with which
the "inexperienced" one moved through Harry's domain, and took leave of Harry's mother. Your
modern girl?--of the intellectual sort--quite unmoved by gewgaws! Minx!

Harry saw the two ladies into their pony-carriage. When he returned to his mother, it was with
an absent brow. He went to the window and stood softly whistling, with his hands in his pockets.
Lady Tatham waited a little, then went up to him, and took him by the arms--her eyes smiling
into his, without a word.

He disengaged himself, almost roughly.

"I wish I knew something about art!" he said discontentedly. "And why should anybody want to
be independent all their lives--economically independent?"

He slowly repeated the words, evidently from another mouth, in a land of wonder.

"That's the young woman of to-day, Harry."

"Isn't it better to be happy?" he broke out, and then was silent.

"Harry!--you didn't propose to her?"

He laughed out.

"Propose to her! As if I dare! I haven't even made friends with her yet--though I thought I
had. She talks of things I don't understand."

"Not philosophy and stuff?"

"Lord, no!" he said, shrugging his shoulders. "It's much worse. It's as though she despised--"
He paused again.

"Courting?" said his mother at last, her head against his shoulder.

"Well, anything of that sort, in comparison with art--and making a career--and earning money--and
things of that kind. Oh, I daresay I'm a stupid ass!--"

Lady Tatham laughed softly.

"You can buy all her pictures, Harry."

"I don't believe she'd like it a bit, if she knew!" he said, gloomily.

The young man's chagrin and bewilderment were evident. His mother could only guess at the causes.

"How long have you known her, Harry?"

"Just two months."

Lady Tatham took him again by the shoulders, and looked into his face.

"Why didn't you tell me before? Do you want her?" she asked slowly.

"Yes--but I shall never get her," was the half desperate reply.

"Pooh!" she said, releasing him, after she had kissed him. "We shall see."

And straightway, with a wave of the hand as it were, she dismissed all thought of the Honourable
Johns and Geralds. Mrs. Penfold and her chatter sank out of sight and hearing. She was her
son's champion--against the world.

VI

It was the tenth day since the evening when Claude Faversham had been carried unconscious into
Threlfall Tower, and the first one which anything like clearness of mind had returned to him.
Before that there had been passing gleams and perceptions, soon lost again in the delusions
of fever, or narcotic sleep. A big room--strange faces--pain--a doctor coming and going--intervals
of misery following intervals of nothingness--helplessness--intolerable oppression--horrible
struggles with food--horrible fear of being touched--gradually, little by little, these ideas
had emerged in consciousness.

Then had followed the first moments of relief--incredibly sweet--but fugitive, soon swallowed
up in returning discomfort; yet lengthening, deepening, passing by degrees into a new and tremulous
sense of security of a point gained and passed. And at last on this tenth morning--a still
and cloudy morning of early June, he found himself suddenly fully awake, and as it seemed to
him once more in possession of himself. A dull, dumb anguish lay behind him, already half effaced;
and the words of a psalm familiar at school and college ran idly through his mind: "My soul
hath escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowler."

"Where am I?" Not in a hospital. Hospital ceilings are not adorned with wreaths and festoons
in raised stucco, or with medallion groups of winged children playing with torches, or bows
and arrows.

"I have a gem like that one," he thought, sleepily.

"A genius with a torch."

Then for a long time he was only vaguely conscious of more light than usual in the room--of
an open window somewhere--of rustling leaves outside--and of a chaffinch singing....

Another couple of days passed, and he began to question the kind woman whom he had come to
regard as a sort of strong, protective force between him and anguish, without any desire to
give it a name, or realize an individual. But now he saw that he had been nursed by hands as
refined as they were skilful, and he dimly perceived that he owed his life mainly to the wholly
impersonal yet absorbed devotion of two women--gentle, firm-faced, women--who had fought death
for him and won. Just a professional service for a professional fee; yet his debt was measureless.
These are the things, he feebly understood, that women do for men; and what had been mere hearsay
to his strong manhood had become experience.

Actually a ray of sunshine had been allowed to penetrate the shaded room. He watched it enchanted.
Flowers were on the table near him. There was a delicious sense of warmth and summer scents.

"Where am I?" He turned his bandaged head stiffly toward the nurse beside him.

"In Threlfall Tower--the house of Mr. Edmund Melrose," she said, bending over him.

The nurse saw him smile.

"That's queer. What happened?"

His companion gave him a short account of the accident and of Undershaw's handling of it. Then
she refused to let her patient talk any more, and left him with instructions not to tire his
head with trying to remember. He lay disconnectedly dreaming. A stream of clear water, running
shallow over greenish pebbles and among stones, large and small--and some white things floating
on it. The recollection teased him, and a slight headache warned him to put it aside. He tried
to go to sleep.

Suddenly, there floated into view a face vaguely seen, a girl's figure, in a blue dress, against
a background of mountain. Who was it?--where had he come across her?

A few days later, when, for the first time, he was sitting up raised on pillows, and had been
allowed to lift a shaking hand to help the nurse's hand as it guided a cup of soup to his lips,
she said to him in her low, pleasant voice:

"Several people have been to inquire for you to-day. I'll bring you the cards."

She fetched them from a table near and read the names. "Lord Tatham, and his mother, Lady Tatham.
They've sent you flowers every day. These are Duddon roses." She held up a glass vase before
him. "Mrs. Penfold and Miss Penfold."

He shook his head feebly.

"Don't know any of them."

Nurse Aston laughed at him.

"Oh, yes, you do. Lord Tatham was at college with you. He's coming to see you one day soon.
And Miss Penfold saw you just before the accident. She was sketching in St. John's Vale, and
you helped her fish something out of the water."

"By Jove!--so I did," he said, slowly. "Tatham?" He pondered. "Tell Lady Tatham I'm much obliged
to her."

And he went to sleep again.

The next time he woke, he saw an unfamiliar figure sitting beside him. His hold upon himself
seemed to have grown much stronger. It was evening, and though the windows were still wide
open a lamp had been lit.

"Are you Mr. Melrose?" he asked, amazed at the clearness of his own voice.

A gray-haired man moved his chair nearer.

"That's all right. You'll soon be well now. Do you feel much better?"

"I--I feel nearly well. How long have I been here?"

"About three weeks."

"I say--that's a nuisance! I'm very sorry to put you to inconvenience."

"Wasn't your fault. It was the doctor who brought you here." The tone of the words was round
and masterful. "Are you comfortable? Have you all you want?"

"Everything. The nurses are A1. I say--has some one written to my uncle?"

"Undershaw wrote to a Mr. George Faversham last week. He was ill with rheumatic gout, couldn't
come. Is that the uncle you mean?"

The young man nodded.

"He's the only relation I've got. The other one died. Hullo!"

He made a sudden movement. His hand slipped into his breast and found nothing. He raised himself
in bed, with a frowning brow.

"I say!"--he looked urgently at Melrose. "Where are my gems?--and my ring?"

"Don't trouble yourself. They were brought to me. I have them locked up."

Faversham's expression relaxed. He let himself slide down upon his pillows.

"By George!--if I'd lost them."

Melrose studied him closely.

"They're all right. What do you know about gems?"

"Only what Uncle Mackworth taught me. We were great pals. He was my guardian. I lived with
him in the holidays after my parents died. I knew all his gems. And now he's left them to me."

"Where are the rest?"

"I left the cabinet in charge of a man I know at the British Museum. He promised to lock it
up in one of their strong rooms. But those six I always carry with me."

Melrose laughed.

"But those are just the six that should have been locked up. They are worth all the rest."

The young man slowly turned his head.

"Did you know my Uncle Mackworth?"

"Certainly. And I too knew all his gems. I could tell you the histories of those six, anyway,
for generations. If it hadn't been for a fool of an agent of mine, your uncle would never have
had the Arconati Bacchus."

Faversham was silent--evidently trying to feel his way through some induction of thought. But
he gave it up as too much for him, and merely said--nervously--with the sudden flush of weakness:

"I'm afraid you've been put to great expense, sir. But it's all right. As soon as they'll let
me sign a check, I'll pay my debts."

"Good gracious, don't trouble your head about that!" said Melrose rising. "This house is at
your disposal. Undershaw I daresay will tell you tales of me. Take 'em with a grain of salt.
He'll tell you I'm mad, and I daresay I am. I'm a hermit anyway, and I like my own society.
But you're welcome here, as long as you've any reason to stay. I should like you to know that
I do not regard Mackworth's nephew as a stranger."

The studied amiability of these remarks struck Faversham as surprising, he hardly knew why.
Suddenly, a phrase emerged in memory.

"Every one about here calls him the Ogre."

The girl by the river--was it? He could not remember. Why!--the Ogre was tame enough. But the
conversation--the longest he had yet held--had exhausted him. He turned on his side, and shut
his eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then gradually, day by day, he came to understand the externals, at any rate, of the situation.
Undershaw gave him a guarded, though still graphic, account of how, as unconscious as the dead
Cid strapped on his warhorse, he and his bodyguard had stormed the Tower. The jests of the
nurse, as to the practical difficulties of living in such a house, enlightened him further.
Melrose, it appeared, lived like a peasant, and spent like a peasant. They brought him tales
of the locked rooms, of the passages huddled and obstructed with bric-à-brac, of the standing
feuds between Melrose and his tenants. None of the ordinary comforts of life existed in the
Tower, except indeed a vast warming apparatus which kept it like an oven in winter; the only
personal expenditure, beyond bare necessaries, that Melrose allowed himself. Yet it was commonly
believed that he was enormously rich, and that he still spent enormously on his collections.
Undershaw had attended a London stockbroker staying in one of the Keswick hotels, who had told
him, for instance, that Melrose was well known to the "House" as one of the largest holders
of Argentine stock in the world, and as having made also immense sums out of Canadian land
and railways. "The sharpest old fox going," said the Londoner, himself, according to Undershaw,
no feeble specimen of the money-making tribe. "His death duties will be worth raking in!"

Occasional gossip of this, or a more damaging kind, enlivened convalescence. Undershaw and
the nurses had no motives for reticence. Melrose treated them uncivilly throughout; and Undershaw
knew very well that he should never be forgiven the forcing of the house. And as he, the nurses,
and the Dixons were firmly convinced that for every farthing of the accommodation supplied
him Faversham would ultimately have to pay handsomely, there seemed to be no particular call
for gratitude, or for a forbearance based upon it.

Meanwhile Faversham himself did not find the character and intentions of his host so easy to
understand. Although very weak, and with certain serious symptoms still persisting to worry
the minds of doctor and nurse, he was now regularly dressed of an afternoon, and would sit
in a large armchair--which had had to be hired from Keswick--by one of the windows looking
out on the courtyard. Punctually at tea-time Melrose appeared. And there was no denying that
in general he proved himself an agreeable companion--a surprisingly agreeable companion. He
would come slouching in, wearing the shabbiest clothes, and a black skullcap on his flowing
gray hair; looking one moment like the traditional doctor of the Italian puppet-play, gaunt,
long-fingered, long-featured, his thin, pallid face a study in gray amid its black surroundings;
and the next, playing the man of family and cosmopolitan travel, that he actually was. Faversham
indeed began before long to find a curious attraction in his society. There was flattery, moreover,
in the fact that nobody else in living memory had Melrose ever been known to pay anything like
the attention he was now daily devoting to his invalid guest. The few inmates and visitors
of the Tower, permanent and temporary, became gradually aware of it. They were astonished,
but none the less certain that Melrose had only modified his attitude for some selfish reason
of his own which would appear in due time.

The curious fact, however, emerged, after a while, that between the two men, so diverse in
age, history, and circumstance, there was a surprising amount in common. Faversham, in spite
of his look of youth, much impaired for the present by the results of his accident, was not
so very young; he had just passed his thirtieth birthday, and Melrose soon discovered that
he had seen a good deal both of the natural and the human worlds. He was the son, it seemed,
of an Indian Civil Servant, and had inherited from his parents, who were both dead, an income--so
Melrose shrewdly gathered from various indications--just sufficient to keep him; whereby a
will, ambitious rather than strong, had been able to have its way. He had dabbled in many things,
journalism, law, politics; had travelled a good deal; and was now apparently tired of miscellaneous
living, and looking out discontentedly for an opening in life--not of the common sort--that
was somewhat long in presenting itself. He seemed to have a good many friends and acquaintances,
but not any of overmastering importance to him; his intellectual powers were evidently considerable,
but not working to any great advantage either for himself or society.

Altogether an attractive, handsome, restless fellow; persuaded that he was destined to high
things, hungry for them, yet not seeing how to achieve them; hungry for money also--probably
as the only possible means of achieving them--and determined, meanwhile, not to accept any
second best he could help. It was so, at least--from the cynical point of view of an observer
who never wasted time on any other--that Melrose read him.

Incidentally he discovered that Faversham was well acquainted with the general lines and procedure
of modern financial speculation, was in fact better versed in the jargon and gossip of the
Stock Exchange than Melrose himself; and had made use now and then of the large amount of information
and the considerable number of useful acquaintances he possessed to speculate cautiously on
his own account--without much result, but without disaster. Also it was very soon clear that,
independently of his special reasons for knowing something about engraved gems and their value,
he had been, through his Oxford uncle, much brought across collectors and collecting. He could,
more or less, talk the language of the tribe, and indeed his mere possession of the famous
gems had made him, willy-nilly, a member of it.

So that, for the first time in twenty years, Melrose found himself provided with a listener,
and a spectator who neither wanted to buy from him nor sell to him. When a couple of vases
and a statuette, captured in Paris from some remains of the Spitzer sale, arrived at the Tower,
it was to Faversham's room that Melrose first conveyed them; and it was from Faversham's mouth
that he also, for the first time, accepted any remarks on his purchases that were not wholly
rapturous. Faversham, with the arrogance of the amateur, thought the vases superb, and the
statuette dear at the price. Melrose allowed it to be said; and next morning the statuette
started on a return journey to Paris, and the Tower knew it no more.

Meanwhile the old collector would appear at odd moments with a lacquered box, or a drawer from
a cabinet, and Faversham would find a languid amusement in turning over the contents, while
Melrose strolled smoking up and down the room, telling endless stories of "finds" and bargains.
Of the store, indeed, of precious or curious objects lying heaped together in the confusion
of Melrose's den, the only treasures of a portable kind that Faversham found any difficulty
in handling were his own gems. Melrose would bring them sometimes, when the young man specially
asked for them, would keep a jealous eye on them the whole time they were in their owner's
hands, and hurry them back to their drawer in the Riesener table as soon as Faversham could
be induced to give them up.

One night the invalid made a show of slipping them back into the breast-pocket from which they
had been taken while he lay unconscious.

"I'm well enough now to look after them," he had said, smiling, to his host. "Nurse and I will
mount guard."

Whereupon Melrose protested so vehemently that the young man, in his weakness, did not resist.
Rather sulkily, he handed the case back to the greedy hand held out for it.

Then Melrose smiled; if so pleasant a word may be applied to the queer glitter that for a moment
passed over the cavernous lines of his face.

"Let me make you an offer for them," he said abruptly.

"Thank you--I don't wish to sell them."

"I mean a good offer--an offer you are not likely to get elsewhere--simply because they happen
to fit into my own collection."

"It is very kind of you. But I have a sentiment about them. I have had many offers. But I don't
intend to sell them."

Melrose was silent a moment, looking down on the patient, in whose pale cheeks two spots of
feverish red had appeared. Then he turned away.

"All right. Don't excite yourself, pray."

"I thought he'd try and get them out of me," thought Faversham irritably, when he was left
alone. "But I shan't sell them--whatever he offers."

And vaguely there ran through his mind the phrases of a letter handed to him by his old uncle's
solicitor, together with the will: "Keep them for my sake, my dear boy; enjoy them, as I have
done. You will be tempted to sell them; but don't, if you can help it. The money would be soon
spent; whereas the beauty of these things, the associations connected with them, the thoughts
they arouse--would give you pleasure for a lifetime. I have loved you like a father, and I
have left you all the little cash I possess. Use that as you will. But that you should keep
and treasure the gems which have been so much to me, for my sake--and beauty's--would give
me pleasure in the shades--'quo dives Tullus et Ancus'--you know the rest. You are ambitious,
Claude. That's well. But keep you heart green."

What precisely the old fellow might have meant by those last words, Faversham had often rather
sorely wondered, though not without guesses at the answer. But anyway he had loved his adopted
father; he protested it; and he would not sell the gems. They might represent his "luck"--such
as there was of it--who knew?

       *       *       *       *       *

The question of removing his patient to a convalescent home at Keswick was raised by Undershaw
at the end of the third week from the accident. He demanded to see Melrose one morning, and
quietly communicated the fact that he had advised Faversham to transfer himself to Keswick
as soon as possible. The one nurse now remaining would accompany him, and he, Undershaw, would
personally superintend the removal.

Melrose looked at him with angry surprise.

"And pray what is the reason for such an extraordinary and unnecessary proceeding?"

"I understood," said Undershaw, smiling, "that you were anxious to have your house to yourself
again as soon as possible."

"I defended my house against your attack. But that's done with. And why you should hurry this
poor fellow now into new quarters, in his present state, when he might stay quietly here till
he is strong enough for a railway journey, I cannot conceive!"

Undershaw, remembering the first encounter between them, could not prevent his smile becoming
a grin.

"I am delighted Mr. Faversham has made such a good impression on you, sir. But I understand
that he himself feels a delicacy in trespassing upon you any longer. I know the house at Keswick
to which I propose to take him. It is excellently managed. We can get a hospital motor from
Carlisle, and of course I shall go with him."

"Do you suggest that he has had any lack of attention here from me or my servants?" said Melrose,
hotly.

"By no means. But--well, sir, I will be open with you. Mr. Faversham in my opinion wants a
change of scene. He has been in that room for three weeks, and--he understands there is no
other to which he can be moved. It would be a great advantage, too, to be able to carry him
into a garden. In fact"--the little doctor spoke with the same cool frankness he had used in
his first interview with Melrose--"your house, Mr. Melrose, is a museum; but it is not exactly
the best place for an invalid who is beginning to get about again."

Melrose frowned upon him.

"What does he want, eh? More space? Another room? How many rooms do you suppose there are in
this house, eh?" he asked in a voice half hectoring, half scornful.

"Scores, I daresay," said Undershaw, quietly. "But when I inquired of Dixon the other day whether
it would be impossible to move Mr. Faversham into another room he told me that every hole and
corner in the house was occupied by your collections, except two on the ground floor that you
had never furnished. We can't put Mr. Faversham into an unfurnished room. That which he occupies
at present is, if I may speak plainly, rather barer of comforts than I like."

"What on earth do you mean?"

"Well, when an invalid's out of bed a pleasant and comfortable room is a help to him--a few
things to look at on the walls--a change of chairs--a bookcase or two--and so on. Mr. Faversham's
present room is--I mean no offence--as bare as a hospital ward, and not so cheerful. Then as
to the garden"--Undershaw moved to a side window and pointed to the overgrown and gloomy wilderness
outside--"nurse and I have tried in vain to find a spot to which we could carry him. I am afraid
I must say that an ordinary lodging-house, with a bit of sunny lawn on which he could lie in
his long chair, would suit him better, at his present stage, than this fine old house."

"Luxury!" growled Melrose, "useless luxury and expense! that's what every one's after nowadays.
A man must be as cossu as a pea in a pod! I'll go and speak to him myself!"

And catching up round him the sort of Tennysonian cloak he habitually wore, even in the house
and on a summer day, Melrose moved imperiously toward the door.

Undershaw stood in his way.

"Mr. Faversham is really not fit yet to discuss his own plans, except with his doctor, Mr.
Melrose. It would be both wise and kind of you to leave the decision of the matter to myself."

Melrose stared at him.

"Come along here!" he said, roughly. Opening the door of the library, he turned down the broad
corridor to the right. Undershaw followed unwillingly. He was due at a consultation at Keswick,
and had no time to waste with this old madman.

Melrose, still grumbling to himself, took a bunch of keys out of his pocket, and fitted one
to the last door in the passage. It opened with difficulty. Undershaw saw dimly a large room,
into which the light of a rainy June day penetrated through a few chinks in the barred shutters.
Melrose went to the windows, and with a physical strength which amazed his companion unshuttered
and opened them all, helped by Undershaw. One of them was a glass door leading down by steps
to the garden outside. Melrose dragged the heavy iron shutter which closed it open, and then,
panting, looked round at his companion.

"Will this do for you?"

"Wonderful!" said Undershaw heartily, staring in amazement at the lovely tracery which incrusted
the ceiling, at the carving of the doors, at the stately mantelpiece, with its marble caryatides,
and at the Chinese wall-paper which covered the walls, its mandarins and pagodas, and its branching
trees. "I never saw such a place. But what is my patient to do with an unfurnished room?"

"Furniture!" snorted Melrose. "Have you any idea, sir, what this house contains?"

Undershaw shook his head.

Melrose pondered a moment, and took breath. Then he turned to Undershaw.

"You are going back to Pengarth? You pass that shop, Barclay's--the upholsterer's. Tell him
to send me over four men here to-morrow, to do what they're told. Stop also at the nurseryman's--Johnson's.
No--I'll write. Give me three days--and you'll see."

He studied the doctor's face with his hawk's eyes.

Undershaw felt considerable embarrassment. The owner of the Tower appeared to him more of a
lunatic than ever.

"Well, really, Mr. Melrose--I appreciate your kindness--as I am sure my patient will. But--why
should you put yourself out to this extent? It would be much simpler for everybody concerned
that I should find him the quarters I propose."

"You put it to Mr. Faversham that I am quite prepared to move him into other quarters--and
quarters infinitely more comfortable than he can get in any infernal 'home' you talk of--or
I shall put it to him myself," said Melrose, in his most determined voice.

"Of course, if you persist in asking him to stay, I suppose he must ultimately decide." Undershaw's
tone betrayed his annoyance. "But I warn you, I reserve my own right of advice. And moreover--supposing
you do furnish this room for him, allow me to point out that he will soon want something else,
and something more, even, than a better room. He will want cheerful society."

"Well?" The word was challenging.

"You are most kind and indefatigable in coming to see him. But, after all, a man at his point
of convalescence, and inclined to be depressed--the natural result of such an accident--wants
change, intellectual as well as physical, and society of his own age."

"What's to prevent his getting it?" asked Melrose, shortly. "When the room is in order, he
will use it exactly as he likes."

Undershaw shrugged his shoulders, anxious to escape to his consultation.

"Let us discuss it again to-morrow. I have told you what I think best." He turned to go.

"Will you give that order to Barclay?"

Undershaw laughed.

"If I do, I mustn't be taken as aiding and abetting you. But of course--if you wish it."

"Ten o'clock to-morrow," said Melrose, accompanying him to the door. "Ten o'clock, sharp."
He stood, with raised forefinger, on the threshold of the newly opened room, bowing a stiff
farewell.

Undershaw escaped. But as he turned into the pillared hall, Nurse Aston hurriedly emerged from
Faversham's room. She reported some fresh trouble in one of the wounds on the leg caused by
the accident, which had never yet properly healed. There was some pain, and a rise in temperature.

       *       *       *       *       *

The unfavourable symptoms soon subsided. But as the fear of blood-poisoning had been in Undershaw's
mind from the beginning, they led him to postpone, in any case, the arrangements that had been
set on foot for Faversham's departure. During three or four days afterward he saw little or
nothing of Melrose. But he and Nurse Aston were well aware that unusual things were going on
in the house. Owing to the great thickness of the walls, the distance of Faversham's room from
the scene of action, and the vigilance of his nurse, who would allow no traffic whatever through
the front hall, the patient was protected from the noise of workmen in the house, and practically
knew nothing of the operations going on. Melrose appeared every evening as usual, and gave no hint.

On the afternoon of the fourth day, Melrose met Undershaw in the hall, as he entered the house.

"How is he?"

"All right again, I think, and doing well. I hope we shall have no further drawbacks."

"Be good enough to give me ten minutes--before you see Mr. Faversham?"

The invitation could not have been more grand-seigneurish. Undershaw, consumed with curiosity,
accepted. Melrose led the way.

But no sooner had they passed a huge lacquer screen, newly placed in position, and turned into
the great corridor, than Undershaw exclaimed in amazement. Melrose was striding along toward
the south wing. Behind them, screened off, lay regions no longer visible to any one coming
from the hall. In front, stretched a beautiful and stately gallery, terminating in a pillared
window, through which streamed a light to which both it and the gallery had been strangers
for nearly a score of years. A mass of thick shrubbery outside, which had grown up close to
the house, and had been allowed for years to block this window, together with many others on
the ground floor, had been cut sheer away. The effect was startling, and through the panes,
freed from the dust and cobwebs of a generation, the blue distant line of the Pennines could
be distinctly seen far away to the southeast. The floor of the gallery was spread with a fine
matting of a faint golden brown, on which at intervals lay a few old Persian or Indian rugs.
The white panelling of the walls was broken here and there by a mirror, or a girandole, delicate
work of the same date as the Riesener table; while halfway down two Rose du Barri tapestries
faced each other, glowing in the June sun. It was all spacious--a little empty--the whole conception
singularly refined--the colour lovely.

Melrose stalked on, silently, pulling at his beard. He made no reply to Undershaw's admiring
comments; and the doctor wondered whether he was already ashamed of the impulse which had made
him do so strange a thing.

Presently, he threw open the door he had unlocked the week before, Undershaw stepped into a
room no less attractive than the gallery outside. A carpet of old Persian, of a faded blue--a
few cabinets spaced along the walls--a few bookcases full of books old and new--a pillared
French clock on the mantelpiece--a comfortable modern sofa, and some armchairs--branches of
white rhododendron in a great enamelled vase--and two oval portraits on the walls, a gentleman
in red, and a gentleman in blue, both pastels by Latour--in some such way one might have catalogued
the contents of the room. But no catalogue could have rendered its effect on Undershaw, who
was not without artistic leanings of a mild kind himself--an effect as of an old debt paid,
an injustice remedied, a beautiful creation long abused and desecrated, restored to itself.
The room was at last what it had been meant to be; and after a hundred and fifty years the
thought of its dead architect had found fruition.

But this was not all. The garden door stood open, and outside, as he walked up to it, Undershaw
saw a stretch of smooth grass, with groups of trees--the survivors of a ragged army--encircling
it; a blaze of flowers; and beyond the low parapet wall of lichened stone, from which also
a dense thicket of yew and laurel had been removed, the winding course of the river, seventy
feet below the Tower, showed blue under a clear sky. A deck chair stood on the grass and a
garden table beside it, holding an ash-tray and cigarettes.

Undershaw, after a pause of wonder, warmly expressed his admiration. Melrose received it ungraciously.

"Why, the things were all in the house. Clumsy brutes!--Barclay's men would have broken the
half of them, if I hadn't been here," he said, morosely. "Now will you tell Mr. Faversham this
room is at his disposal, or shall I?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour later Faversham, assisted by his nurse, had limped along the corridor, and was
sitting beside the glass door in an utter yet not unpleasant bewilderment. What on earth had
made the strange old fellow take such an odd fancy to him? He had had singularly little "spoiling"
in his orphaned life so far, except occasionally from "Uncle Mackworth." The experience was
disturbing, yet certainly not disagreeable.

He must of course stay on for a while, now that such extraordinary pains had been taken for
his comfort. It would be nothing less than sheer ingratitude were he not to do so. At the same
time, his temperament was cautious; he was no green youngster; and he could not but ask himself,
given Melrose's character and reputation, what ulterior motive there might be behind a generosity
so eccentric.

Meanwhile Melrose, in high spirits, and full of complaisance, now that the hated Undershaw
had departed, walked up and down as usual, talking and smoking. It was evident that the whole
process of unpacking his treasures had put him in a glow of excitement. The sudden interruption
of habit had acted with stimulating power, his mind, like his home, had shaken off some of
its dust. He talked about the pictures and furniture he had unearthed; the Latour pastels,
the Gobelins in the gallery; rambling through scenes and incidents of the past, in a vivacious,
egotistical monologue, which kept Faversham amused.

In the middle of it, however, he stopped abruptly, eying his guest.

"Can you write yet?"

"Pretty well. My arm's rather stiff."

"Make your nurse write some notes for you. That man--Undershaw--says you must have some society--invite
some people."

Faversham laughed.

"I don't know a soul, either at Keswick or Pengarth."

"There have been some people inquiring after you."

"Oh, young Tatham? Yes, I knew him at Oxford."

"And the women--who are they?"

Faversham explained.

"Miss Penfold seems to have recognized me from Undershaw's account. They are your nearest neighbours,
aren't they?" He looked smiling at his host.

"I don't know my neighbours!" said Melrose, emphatically. "But as for that young ass, Tatham--ask
him to come and see you."

"By all means--if you suggest it."

Melrose chuckled.

"But he won't come, unless he knows I am safely out of the way. He and I are not on terms,
though his mother and I are cousins. I dare say Undershaw's told you--he's thick with them.
The young man has been insolent to me on one or two occasions. I shall have to take him down.
He's one of your popularity-hunting fools. However you ask him by all means if you want him.
He'll come to see you. Ask him Thursday. I shall be at Carlisle for the day. Tell him so."

He paused, his dark eyeballs, over which the whites had a trick of showing disagreeably, fixing
his visitor; then added:

"And ask the women too. I shan't bite 'em. I saw them from the window the day they came to
inquire. The mother looked perfectly scared. The daughter's good looking."

Manner and tone produced a vague irritation in Faversham. But he merely said that he would
write to Mrs. Penfold.

Two notes were accordingly despatched that evening from the Tower; one to Duddon Castle, the
other to Green Cottage. Faversham had succeeded in writing them himself; and in the exhilaration
of what seemed to him a much-quickened convalescence, he made arrangements the following morning
to part with his nurse within a few days. "Do as you like, in moderation," said Undershaw,
"no railway journey for a week or two."

VII

Melrose had gone to Carlisle. The Cumbria landscape lay in a misty sunshine, the woods and
fields steaming after a night of soaking rain. All the shades of early summer were melting
into each other; reaches of the river gave back a silvery sky, while under the trees the shadows
slept. The mountains were indistinct, drawn in pale blues and purples, on a background of lilac
and pearl. And all the vales "were up," drinking in the streams that poured from the heights.

Tatham and his mother were walking through the park together. He was in riding-dress, and his
horse awaited him at the Keswick gate. Lady Tatham beside him was attired as usual in the plainest
and oldest of clothes. Her new gowns, which she ordered from time to time mechanically, leaving
the whole designing of them to her dress-maker, served her at Duddon, in her own phrase, mainly
"for my maid to show the housekeeper." They lay in scented drawers, daintily folded in tissue
paper, and a maid no less ambitious than her fellows for a well-dressed mistress kept mournful
watch over them. This carelessness of dress had grown upon Victoria Tatham with years. In her
youth the indulgence of a taste for beautiful and artistic clothes had taken up a great deal
of her time. Then suddenly it had all become indifferent to her. Devotion to her boy, books,
and natural history absorbed a mind more and more impatient of ordinary conventions.

"You are quite sure that Melrose will be out of the way?" she asked her son as they entered
on the last stretch of their walk.

"Well, you saw the letter."

"No--give it me."

He handed it. She read it through attentively.

"Mr. Melrose asks me to say that he will not be here. He is going over to the neighbourhood
of Carlisle on business, and cannot be home till ten o'clock at night."

"He has the decency not to 'regret,'" said Lady Tatham.

"No. It is awkward of course going at all"--Tatham's brow was a little furrowed--"but I somehow
think I ought to go."

"Oh, go," said his mother. "If he does play a trick you will know how to meet it. It would
be very like him to play some trick," she added, thoughtfully.

"Mother," said Tatham impetuously, "was Melrose ever in love with you?"

He coloured boyishly as he spoke. Lady Tatham looked up startled; a faint red appeared in her
cheeks also.

"I believe he supposed himself to be. I knew him very well, and I might--possibly--have accepted
him--but that some information came to my knowledge. Then, later on, largely I think to punish
me, he nearly succeeded in entangling my younger sister--your Aunt Edith. I stood in his way.
He hates me, of course. I think he suffered. In those days he was very different. But his pride
and self-will were always a madness. And gradually they have devoured everything else." She
paused. "I cannot tell you anything more, Harry. There were other people concerned."

"Dearest, as if I should ask! He did my mother no injury?"

Under the shadow of the woods the young man threw his arm round her shoulders, looking down
upon her with a proud tenderness.

"None. I escaped; and I won all along the line. I was neither to be pitied--nor he," she added
slowly, "though I daresay he would put down his later mode of life to me."

"As if any woman could ever have put up with him!"

Lady Tatham's expression showed a mind drawn back into the past.

"When I first saw him, he was a magnificent creature. For several years I was dazzled by him.
Then when I--and others--broke with him, he turned his back on England and went to live abroad.
And gradually he quarrelled with everybody who had ever known him."

"But you never did care about him, mother?" cried Tatham, outraged by the mere notion of any
such thing.

"No--never." There was a deliberate emphasis on the words. The smile that followed was slight
but poignant. "I knew that still more plainly, when, six months after I ceased to see him,
your father came along."

Tatham who had drawn her hand within his arm, laid his own upon it for a moment. He was in
the happy position of a son in whom filial affection represented no enforced piety, but the
spontaneous instinct of his nature. His mother had been so far his best friend; and though
he rarely spoke of his father his childish recollections of him, and the impression left by
his mother's constant and deliberate talk of him, during the boyish years of her son, had entered
deep into the bases of character. It is on such feelings and traditions that all that is best
in our still feudal English life is reared; Tatham had known them without stint; and in their
absence he would have been merely the trivially prosperous young man that he no doubt appeared
to the Radical orators of the neighbourhood.

The wood thinned. They emerged from it to see the Helvellyn range lying purple under a southwest
sky, and Tatham's gray mare waiting a hundred yards away.

"You have no note?"

Tatham tapped his breast pocket.

"Rather!"

"All right--go along!" Lady Tatham came to a halt. "And Harry--don't call too often! Is this
the third visit this week?"

"Oh, but the others were such little ones!" he said eagerly.

"Don't try to go too quick." The tone was serious.

"Too quick! I make no way at all," he protested, his look clouding.

Tatham rode slowly along the Darra, the little river which skirted his own land and made its
way at last into that which flowed beneath the Tower. He was going to Threlfall, but on his
way he was to call at Green Cottage and deliver a note from his mother.

He had seen a good deal of Lydia Penfold during the weeks since her first appearance at Duddon.
The two sisters had been induced to lunch there once or twice; there had been a picnic in the
Glendarra woods; and for himself, in spite of his mother's attack, he thought he had been fairly
clever in contriving excuses for calls. On one occasion he had carried with him--by his mother's
suggestion--a portfolio containing a dozen early proofs of the "Liber Studiorium," things about
which he knew little or nothing; but Lydia's eyes had sparkled when he produced them, which
was all he cared for. On the second, he had called to offer them a key which would admit their
pony-carriage to some of the private drives of the park, wild enchanted ways which led up to
the very eastern heart of Blencathra. That was not quite so successful, because both Lydia
and her mother were out, and his call had been made chiefly on Susan, who had been even queerer
than usual. After taking the key, she had let it fall absently into a waste-paper basket, while
she talked to him about Ibsen; and he had been forced to rescue it himself, lest Lydia should
never know of his visit. On all other occasions he had found Lydia, and she had been charming--always
charming--but as light and inaccessible as mountain birds. He had been allowed to see the drawing
she was now busy on--the ravines of Blencathra, caught sideways through a haze of light, edge
beyond edge, distance behind distance; a brave attempt on the artist's part at poetic breadth
and selection. She had been much worried about the "values," whatever they might be. "They're
quite vilely wrong!" she had said, impatiently. "And I don't know how to get them right." And
all he could do was to stand like an oaf and ask her to explain. Nor could he ignore the fact--so
new and strange to a princeling!--that her perplexities were more interesting to her than his
visit.

Yet of course Tatham had his own natural conceit of himself, like any normal young man, in
the first bloom of prosperous life. He was accustomed to be smiled on; to find his pleasure
consulted, and his company welcome, whether as the young master of Duddon, or as a comrade
among his equals of either sex. The general result indeed of his happy placing in the world
had been to make him indifferent to things that most men desire. No merit in that! As he truly
said, he had so much of them! But he was proud of his health and strength--his shooting and
the steady lowering of his golf handicap. He was proud also of certain practical aptitudes
he possessed, and would soon allow no one to interfere with him--hardly to advise him--in the
management of his estate. He liked nothing better than to plan the rebuilding of a farm, or
a set of new cottages. He was a fair architect, of a rough and ready sort, and a decent thatcher
and bricklayer. All the older workmen on the estate had taught him something at one time or
another; and of these various handicrafts he was boyishly vain.

None of these qualifications, however, gave him the smallest confidence in himself, with regard
to Lydia Penfold. Ever since he had first met her, he had realized in her the existence of
standards just as free as his own, only quite different. Other girls wished to be courted;
or they courted him. Miss Penfold gave no sign that she wished to be courted; and she certainly
had never courted anybody. Many pretty girls assert themselves by a kind of calculated or rude
audacity, as though to say that gentleness and civility are not for the likes of them. Lydia
was always gentle--kind, at least--even when she laughed at you. Unless she got upon her "ideas."
Then--like Susan--she could harangue a little, and grow vehement--as she had at Duddon that
day, talking of the new independence of women. But neither her gentleness nor her vehemence
seemed to have any relation to what a man--or men--might desire of her. She lived for herself;
not indeed in any selfish sense; for it was plain that she was an affectionate daughter and
sister; but simply the world was so interesting to her in other ways that she seemed to have
no need of men and matrimony. And as to money, luxury, a great train de vie--he had felt from
the beginning that those things mattered nothing at all to her. It might be inexperience, it
might be something loftier. But, at any rate, if she were to be bribed, it must be with goods
of another kind.

As to himself, he only knew that from his first sight of her at the Hunt Ball, she had filled
his thoughts. Her delicate, pale beauty, lit by those vivacious eyes; so quiet, so feminine,
yet with its suggestion of something unconquerable, moving in a world apart--he could not define
it in any such words; but there it was, the attraction, the lure. Something difficult; something
delightful! A dear woman, a woman to be loved; and yet a thorn hedge surrounding her--how else
can one put the eternal challenge, the eternal chase?

But as three parts of love is hope, and hope is really the mother of invention, Tatham, though
full of anxiety, was also, like General Trochu, full of plans. He had that morning made his
mother despatch an invitation to one of the great painters of the day; a man who ruled the
beauties of the moment en Sultan; painted whom he would; when he would; and at what price he
would. But while those who were dying to be painted by him must often wait for years, and put
up with manners none too polite, there were others who avenged them; women, a few, very few
women, whom the great man, strange to say, sighed to paint, and sighed in vain. Such women
were generally women of a certain age; none of your soft-cheeked beauties. And Lady Tatham
was one of them. The great artist had begged her to let herself be painted by him. And Victoria
had negligently replied that, perhaps, at Duddon, some day, there might be time. Several reminders,
launched from the Chelsea studio, had not brought her to the point; but now for her son's sake
she had actually named a time; and a jubilant telegram from London had clenched the bargain.
The great man was to arrive in a fortnight from now, for a week's visit; and Tatham had in
his pocket a note from Lady Tatham to Mrs. Penfold requesting the pleasure of her company and
that of her two daughters at dinner, to meet Mr. Louis Delorme, the day after his arrival.

And all this, because, at a mention of the illustrious name, Lydia had looked up with a flutter
of enthusiasm. "You know him? How lucky for you! He's wonderful! I? Oh, no. How should I? I
saw him once in the distance--he was giving away prizes. I didn't get one--alack! That's the
nearest I shall ever come to him."

Tatham chuckled happily as he thought of it.

"She shall sit next the old boy at dinner, and she shall talk to him just as much as she jolly
well pleases. And of course he'll take to her, and offer to give her lessons--or paint her--or
something. Then we can get her over--lots of times!"

Still dallying with these simple plans, Tatham arrived at Green Cottage, and tying up his horse
went in to deliver his note.

He had no sooner entered the little drive than he saw Lydia under a laburnum tree on the lawn.
Hat in hand, the smiling youth approached her. She was sewing, apparently mending house-linen,
which she quietly put down to greet him. There was a book before her; a book of poetry, he
thought. She slipped it among the folds of the linen.

He could not flatter himself that his appearance disturbed her composure in the least. She
was evidently glad to see him; she was gratefully sure that they would all be delighted to
dine with Lady Tatham on the day named; she came with him to the gate, and admired his horse.
But as to any flutter of hand or eye; any consciousness in her, answering to the eager feeling
in him--he knew very well there was nothing of the kind. Never mind! There was an inner voice
in him that kept reassuring him all the time; telling him to be patient; to go at it steadily.
There was no other fellow in the way, anyhow! He had a joyous sense of all the opportunities
to come, the summer days, the open country, the resources of Duddon.

With his hand on his horse's neck, and loath to ride away, he told her that he was on his way
to the Tower to call on Faversham.

"Oh, but we're coming too, mother and I!" she said, in surprise. "Mr. Faversham sent us a note.
I don't believe he ought to have two sets of visitors just yet."

Tatham too was surprised. "How on earth Faversham is able to entertain anybody, I can't think!
Undershaw told me last week he must get him away, as soon as possible, into decent quarters.
He doesn't get on very fast."

"He's been awfully ill!" said Lydia, with a soft concern in her voice, which made the splendid
young fellow beside her envious at once of the invalid. "Well, good-bye! for the moment. We
have ordered the pony in half an hour."

"You'll see a queer place; the piggery that old fellow lives in! You didn't know Faversham--I
think you said--before that day of the accident?" He looked down on her from the saddle.

"Not the least. I feel a horrid pang sometimes that I didn't warn him of that hill!"

"Any decent bike ought to have managed that hill all right," said Tatham scornfully. "Scores
of tourists go up and down it every day in the summer."

Lydia bade him speak more respectfully of his native hills, lest they bring him also to grief.
Then she waved good-bye to him; received the lingering bow and eager look, which betrayed the
youth; thought of "young Harry with his beaver on," as she watched the disappearing horseman,
and went back for a while to her needlework and cogitation.

That she was flattered and touched, that she liked him--the kind, courteous boy--that was certain.
Must she really assume anything else on his part--take his advances seriously--check them--put
up restrictions--make herself disagreeable? Why? During her training in London, Lydia had drunk
of the modern spring like other girls. She had been brought up in a small old-fashioned way,
by her foolish little mother, and by a father--a stupid, honourable, affectionate man--whom
she had loved with a half-tender, half-rebellious affection. There had been no education to
speak of, for either her or Susy. But the qualities and gifts of remoter ancestors had appeared
in them--to the bewilderment of their parents. And when after her father's death Lydia, at
nineteen, had insisted on entering the Slade School, she had passed through some years of rapid
development. At bottom her temperament always remained, on the whole, conservative and critical;
the temperament of the humourist, in whose heart the old loyalties still lie warm. But that
remarkable change in the whole position and outlook of women which has marked the last half
century naturally worked upon her as upon others. For such persons as Lydia it has added dignity
and joy to a woman's life, without the fever and disorganization which attend its extremer
forms. While Susy, attending lectures at University College, became a Suffragist, Lydia, absorbed
in the pleasures and pains of her artistic training, looked upon the suffrage as a mere dusty
matter of political machinery.

But the ideas of her student years--those "ideas" which Tatham felt so much in his way--were
still dominant. Marriage was not necessary. Art and knowledge could very well suffice. On the
whole, in her own case, she aspired to make them suffice.

But not in any cloistered world. Women who lived merely womanish lives, without knowledge of
and comradeship with men, seemed to her limited and parochial creatures. She was impatient
of her sex, and the narrowness of her sex's sphere. She dreamed of a broadly human, practical,
disinterested relation between men and women, based on the actual work of the world; its social,
artistic, intellectual work; all that has made civilization.

"We women are starved"--she thought, "because men will only marry us--or make playthings of
us. But the world is only just--these last years--open to us, as it has been open to men for
thousands of generations. We want to taste and handle it for ourselves; as men do. Why can't
they take us by the hand--a few of us--teach us, confide in us, open the treasure-house to
us?--and let us alone! To be treated as good fellows!--that's all we ask. Some of us would
make such fratchy wives--and such excellent friends! I vow I should make a good friend! Why
shouldn't Lord Tatham try?"

And letting her work fall upon the grass, she sat smiling and thinking, her pale brown hair
blown back by the wind. In her simple gray dress, which showed the rippling beauty of every
line, she was like one of these innumerable angels or virtues, by artists illustrious or forgotten,
which throng the golden twilight of an Italian church; drawing back the curtains of a Doge;
hovering in quiet skies; or offering the Annunciation lily, from one side of a great tomb,
to the shrinking Madonna on the other. These creations of Italy in her early prime are the
most spontaneous of the children of beauty. There are no great differences among them; the
common type is lovely; they spring like flowers from one root, in which are the forces both
of Greece and the Italy of Leonardo. It was their harmony, their cheerfulness, their touch
of something universal, that were somehow reproduced in this English girl, and that made the
secret of her charm.

She went on thinking about Tatham.

Presently she had built a castle high in air; she had worked it out--how she was to make Lord
Tatham clearly understand, before he had any chance of proposing (if that were really in the
wind, and she were not a mere lump of conceit), that marrying was not her line; but that, as
a friend, he might rely upon her. Anything--in particular--that she could do to help him to
a wife, short of offering herself, was at his service. She would be eyes and ears for him;
she would tell him things he did not in the least suspect about the sex.

But as to marrying! She rose from her seat, stretching her arms toward the sky and the blossoming
trees, in that half-wild gesture which so truly expressed her. Marrying Duddon! that vast house,
and all those possessions; those piles of money; those county relations, and that web of inherited
custom which would lay its ghostly compulsion on Tatham's wife the very instant he had married
her--it was not to be thought of for a moment! She, the artist with art and the world before
her; she, with her soul in her own keeping, and all the beauty of sky and fell and stream to
be had for the asking, to make herself the bond slave of Duddon--of that formidably beautiful,
that fond, fastidious mother!--and of all the ceremonial and paraphernalia that must come with
Duddon! She saw herself spending weeks on the mere ordering of her clothes, calling endlessly
on stupid people, opening bazaars, running hospitals, entertaining house parties, with the
clef des champs gone forever--a little drawing at odd times--and all the meaning of life drowned
in its trappings. No--no--no!--a thousand times, no! Not though her mother implored her, and
every creature in Cumbria and the universe thought her stark staring mad. No!--for her own
sake first; but, above all, for Lord Tatham's sake.

Whereat she repentantly reminded herself that after all, if she despised the world and the
flesh, there was no need to give herself airs; for certainly Harry Tatham was giving proof--stronger
proof indeed, of doing the same; if it were really his intention to offer his handsome person,
and his no less handsome possessions to a girl as insignificant as herself. Custom had not
staled him. And there was his mother too; who, instead of nipping the silly business in the
bud, and carrying the foolish young man to London, was actually aiding and abetting--sending
gracious invitations to dinner, of the most unnecessary description.

What indeed could be more detached, more romantic--apparently--than the attitude of both Tatham
and his mother toward their own immense advantages?

Yes. But they were born to them; they had had time to get used to them. "It would take me half
a lifetime to find out what they mean, and another half to discover what to do with them."

"And, if one takes the place, ought one not to earn the wages? Lady Tatham sits loose to all
her social duties, scorns frocks, won't call, cuts bazaars, has never been known to take the
chair at a meeting. But I should call that shirking. Either refuse the game; or play it! And
of all the games in the world, surely, surely the Lady Bountiful game is the dullest! I won't
be bored with it!"

She went toward the house, her smiling eyes on the grass. "But, of course, if I could not get
on without the young man, I should put up with any conditions. But I can get on without him
perfectly! I don't want to marry him. But I do--I do want to be friends!"

"Lydia! Mother says you'll be late if you don't get ready," said a voice from the porch.

"Why, I am ready! I have only to put on my hat."

"Mother thought you'd change."

"Then mother was quite wrong. My best cotton frock is good enough for any young man!" laughed
Lydia.

Susan descended the garden steps. She was a much thinner and dimmer version of her sister.
One seemed to see her pale cheeks, her dark eyes and hair, her small mouth, through mist, like
a Whistler portrait. She moved very quietly, and her voice was low, and a little dragging.
The young vicar of a neighbouring hamlet in the fells, who admired her greatly, thought of
her as playing "melancholy"--in the contemplative Miltonic sense--to Lydia's "mirth." She was
a mystery to him; a mystery he would have liked to unravel. But she was also a mystery to her
family. She shut herself up a good deal with her books; she had written two tragedies in blank
verse; and she held feminist views, vague yet fierce. She was apparently indifferent to men,
much more so than Lydia, who frankly preferred their society to that of her own sex; but Lydia
noticed that if the vicar, Mr. Franklin, did not call for a week Susan would ingeniously invent
some device or other for peremptorily inducing him to do so. It was understood in the family,
that while Lydia enjoyed life, Susan only endured it. All the same she was a good deal spoilt.
She breakfasted in bed, which Mrs. Penfold never thought of doing; Lydia mended her stockings,
and renewed her strings and buttons; while Mrs. Penfold spent twice the time and money on Susan's
wardrobe that she did on Lydia's. There was no reason whatever for any of these indulgences;
but when three women live together, one of them has only to sit still, to make the others her
slaves. Mrs. Penfold found her reward in the belief that Susan was a genius and would some
day astonish the world; Lydia had no such illusion; and yet it would have given her a shock
to see Susan mending her own stockings.

Susan approached her now languidly, her hand to her brow. Lydia looked at her severely.

"I suppose you have got a headache?"

"A little."

"That's because you will go and write poetry directly after lunch. Why it would even give me
a headache!"

"I had an idea," said Susan plaintively.

"What does that matter? Ideas'll keep. You have just to make a note of them--put salt on their
tails--and then go and take a walk. Indigestion, my dear--which is the plain English for your
headache--is very bad for ideas. What have you been doing to your collar?"

And Lydia took hold of her sister, straightening her collar, pinning up her hair, and generally
putting her to rights. When the operation was over, she gave a little pat to Susan's cheek
and kissed her.

"You can come with us to Threlfall, that would take your headache away; and I don't mind the
back seat."

"I wasn't asked," said Susan with dignity. "I shall go for a walk by myself. I want to think."

Lydia received the intimation respectfully, merely recommending her sister to keep out of the
sun; and was hurrying into the house to fetch her hat when Susan detained her.

"Was that Lord Tatham who came just now?"

"It was." Lydia faced her sister, holding up the note from Lady Tatham. "We are all to dine
with them next week."

"He has been here nearly every other day for a fortnight," said Susan, with feminine exaggeration.
"It is becoming so marked that everybody talks."

"Well, I can't help it," said Lydia defiantly. "We are not a convent; and we can hardly padlock
the gate."

"You should discourage him--if you don't mean to marry him."

"My dear, I like him so!" cried Lydia, her hands behind her, and tossing her fair head. "Marrying!--I
hate the word."

"He cares--and you don't," said Susan slowly, "that makes it very unfair--to him."

Lydia frowned for a moment, but only for a moment.

"I'm not encouraging him, Susy--not in the way you mean. But why should I drive him away, or
be rude to him? I want to put things on a proper footing--so that he'll understand."

"He's going to propose to you," said Susan bluntly.

"Well, then, we shall get it over," said Lydia, reluctantly. "And you don't imagine that such
a golden youth will trouble about such a trifle for long. Think of all the other things he
has to amuse him. Why, if I broke my heart, you know I should still want to paint," she added,
flippantly.

"I'd give a good deal to see you break your heart!" said the tragedienne, her dark eyes kindling--"you'd
be just splendid!"

"Thanks, awfully! There's the pony."

Susan held her.

"You're really going to the Tower?"

"I am. It's mean of me. When you hate a man, you oughtn't to go to his house. But I can't help
it. I'm so curious."

"Yes, but not about Mr. Melrose," said Susan slowly.

Lydia flushed suddenly from brow to chin.

"Goose! let me go."

Susan let her go, and then stood a while, absorbed, looking at the mysterious Tower. Her power
of visualization was uncannily strong; it amounted almost to second sight. She seemed to be
in the Tower--in one of its locked and shuttered rooms; to be looking at a young man stretched
on a sofa--a wizardlike figure in a black cloak standing near--and in the doorway, Lydia entering,
bringing the light on her fair hair....

VIII

Tatham had to open the gate of Threlfall Park for himself. The lodge beside it, of the same
date and architecture as the house, had long ceased to be inhabited. The gate was a substantial
iron affair, and carried a placard, peremptorily directing the person entering to close it
behind him. And on either side of it, the great wall stretched away with which, some ten years
before this date, Melrose, at incredible cost, had surrounded the greater part of his property,
in consequence of a quarrel with the local hunt, and to prevent its members from riding over
his land.

Tatham, having carefully shut the gate, rode slowly through the park, casting a curious and
hostile eye over the signs of parsimonious neglect which it presented. Sheep and cattle were
feeding in part of it; part of it was standing for hay; and everywhere the fences were ruinous,
and the roads grass-grown. It was, Tatham knew, let out to various small farmers, who used
it as they pleased. As to the woods which studded it, "the man must be a simple fool who could
let them get into such a state!" Tatham prided himself hugely on the admirable forestry with
which the large tracts of woodland in his own property were managed. But then he paid a proper
salary to a trained forester, a man of education. Melrose's woods, with their choked and ruined
timber, were but another proof that a miser is, scientifically, only a species of idiot.

Only once before in his life had he been within the park--on one of the hunts of his boyhood,
the famous occasion when the fox, started on the other side of the river, had made straight
for Threlfall, and, the gate closing the private foot-bridge having been, by a most unusual
chance, left open, had slipped thereby into the park, with the hounds in full cry after him.
The hunt had momentarily paused, and then breaking loose from all control had dashed through
the yard of the Home Farm in joyous pursuit, while the enraged Melrose, who with Dixon and
another man had rushed out with sticks to try and head them back, had to confine himself and
his followers to manning the enclosure round the house--impotent spectators of the splendid
run through the park--which had long remained famous in Cumbrian annals. Tatham was then a
lad of fourteen, mounted on one of the best of ponies, and he well remembered the mad gallop
which had carried him past the Tower, and the tall figure of its furious master. The glee,
the malicious triumph of the moment ran through his pulses again as he thought of it.

A short-lived triumph indeed, as far as the hunt was concerned; for the building of the ten-foot
wall had followed, and Melrose's final breach with the gentry of his county. Never since had
Tatham set foot in the Ogre's demesne; and he examined every feature of it with the most lively
interest. The dilapidated buildings of the Home Farm reminded him of a lawsuit brought by a
former tenant against his landlord, in which a story of mean and rapacious dealing on the part
of Melrose, toward a decent though unfortunate man, had excited the disgust of the whole countryside.
Melrose had never since been able to find a tenant for the farm, and the bailiff he had put
in was a drunken creature whose mismanagement of it was notorious. Such doings by a man so
inhumanly shrewd as Melrose in many of his affairs could only be accounted for by the combination
in him of miserly dislike of spending, with a violent self-will. Instances, however, had been
known when to get his own way, or gain a sinister advantage over an opponent, Melrose had been
willing to spend extravagantly.

After passing the farm, Tatham pressed on eagerly, expecting the first sight of the house.
The dense growth of shrub and creeper, which had been allowed to grow up around it, the home
according to the popular legend of uncanny multitudes of owls and bats, tickled imagination;
and Tatham had often brought a field-glass to bear upon the house from one of the neighbouring
hills. But as he turned the last corner of the drive he drew up his horse in amazement.

The jungle was gone--! and the simple yet stately architecture of the house stood revealed
in the summer sunshine. In the west wing, indeed, the windows were still shuttered, and many
of them overgrown with ivy; but the dingy thickets of laurel and yew were everywhere shorn
away; and to the east all the windows stood free and open. Moreover, two men were at work in
the front garden, clearing the flagged paths, traced in the eighteenth century, from encumbrance,
and laying down turf in a green circle round one of the small classical fountains that stood
on either side of the approach.

"What on earth is the old villain up to now?" was the natural comment of the surprised Tatham.

Was it simply the advent of a guest--an invalid guest--that had wrought such changes?

One of the gardeners, seeing him as he approached the gate, came running up to hold his horse.
Tatham, who knew everybody and prided himself on it, recognized him as the son of an old Duddon
keeper.

"Well, Backhouse, you're making a fine clearance here!"

"Aye! It's took us days, your lordship. But we're about through wi' this side, howivver." He
pointed to the east wing.

"One can see now what a jolly old place it is," said Tatham, pausing in the gateway to survey
the scene.

Backhouse grinned responsively.

"I do believe, my lord, Muster Melrose hissel' is pleased. He stood a lang while lookin' at
it this morning, afore he started oot."

"Well, no one can deny it's an improvement!" laughed Tatham, as he walked toward the house.

Dixon had already opened the door. Slave and factotum of Melrose as he was, he shared the common
liking of the neighbourhood for young Lord Tatham. Two of his brothers were farmers on the
Duddon estate; and one of them owed his recovery from a dangerous and obscure illness to the
fact that, at the critical moment, Tatham had brought over a specialist from Leeds to see him,
paying all expenses. These things--and others besides--were reflected in the rather tremulous
smile with which Dixon received the visitor.

"Mr. Faversham expects me?"

"Aye, aye, my lord." The old man quickly led the way through the front hall, more quickly than
Tatham's curiosity liked. He had time to notice, however, the domed and decorated ceiling,
the classical mantelpiece, with its medallions and its pillars of Sienese marble, a couple
of bold Renaissance cabinets on either side, and a central table, resting on carved sphinxes,
such as one might find in the sala of a Venetian palace.

But as they turned into the corridor or gallery Tatham's exclamation brought Dixon to a halt.
He faced round upon the young man, revealing a face that worked with hardly repressed excitement,
and explained that the furnishing and arrangement had been only completed that day. It had
taken them eight days, and Barclay's men were only just gone.

Tatham frankly expressed his surprise and admiration. The whole gallery and both of its terminal
windows had now been cleared. The famous series of rose-coloured tapestries, of which Undershaw
had seen the first specimens, had been hung at intervals throughout its length; and from the
stores of the house had been brought out more carpets, more cabinets, mirrors, pictures, fine
eighteenth-century chairs, settees, occasional tables, and what not. Hastily as it had been
done, the brilliance of the effect was great. There was not, there could not be, the beauty
that comes from old use and habit--from the ordered life of generations moving among and gradually
adapting to itself a number of lovely things. Tatham brought up amid the surroundings of Duddon
was scornfully conscious of the bric-à-brac element in the show, as he stood contemplating
Melrose's latest performance. Nevertheless a fine taste had presided both at the original selection
of the things shown, and at the arrangement of them in the stately gallery, which both harmonized
and displayed them.

"There's not a thing yo' see, my lord, that hasna been here--i' this house--for years and years!"
said Dixon, pointing a shaky finger at the cabinets on either side. "There's soom o' them has
been i' their packing-cases ever sin' I can remember, an' the carpets rolled up aw deep in
dust. And there's not a thing been unpacked now i' the house itsel', for fear o' t' dust, an'
Mr. Faversham. The men carried it aw oot o' that door"--he pointed to the far western end of
the gallery--"an' iverything was doon out o' doors, all t' carpets beaten an' aw, where Mr.
Faversham couldna hear a sound. An' yesterday Muster Melrose and Muster Faversham--we browt
him in his wheeled chair yo' unnerstan'--fixed up a lot o' things together. We havna nailed
doon th' matting yet, for fear o't' noise. But Muster Faversham says noo he won't mind it."

"Is Mr. Faversham staying on some time?"

"I canno' say, my lord, I'm sure," was the cautious reply. "But they do say 'at he's not to
tak' a journey for a while yet."

Tatham's curiosity was hot within him, but his very dislike of Melrose restrained him from
indulging it. He followed Dixon through the gallery in silence.

There was no one in the new sitting-room. But outside on some newly laid grass, Tatham perceived
the invalid on a deck chair, with a table holding books and cigarettes beside him.

Dixon had departed. Faversham offered cigarettes.

"Thank you," said Tatham, "I have my own."

And he produced his case with a smile, handing it to Faversham.

"A drink?"

Tatham declined again. As he sat there smoking, his hat on the back of his head, and his ruddy,
good-humoured face beaming on his companion, it did not occur to Faversham that Tatham was
thereby refusing the "salt" of an enemy.

"They'll bring some tea when Mrs. and Miss Penfold come," said Faversham.

Tatham nodded, then grinned irrepressibly.

"I say! I told Miss Penfold she'd find you in 'piggery.'"

Faversham's dark face showed a certain discomposure. Physical delicacy had given a peculiar
distinction to the gaunt black and white of his eyes, hair, and complexion, and to the thinness
of his long frame, so that Tatham, who would have said before seeing him that he remembered
him perfectly, found himself looking at him from time to time in surprise. As to his surroundings,
Faversham appeared not only willing but anxious to explain.

"It's a queer business," he said frankly. "I can assure I you I never asked for anything, never
wished for anything of the sort. Everything was arranged for me to go to Keswick--to a home
there--when--this happened."

"When old Melrose broke out!" Tatham threw back his head and gurgled with laughter. "I suppose
you know that nobody but yourself has ever had bite or sup in this house for twenty years,
unless it were some of the dealers, who--they say--come occasionally. What have you done to
him? You've cast a spell on him!"

Faversham replied again that he had done nothing, and was as much puzzled as anybody.

"My mother was afraid you would be anything but comfortable," said Tatham. "She knows this
gentleman of old. But she didn't know your powers of soothing the savage breast! However, you
have only to say the word, and we shall be delighted to take you in for as long as you like."

"Oh, I must stay here now," said Faversham decidedly. "One couldn't be ungrateful for what
has been done. But my best thanks to Lady Tatham all the same. I hope I may get over to see
her some day."

"You must, of course. Dixon tells me there is a carriage coming--perhaps a motor; why not!"

A flush rose in Faversham's pale cheek.

"Mr. Melrose talked of hiring one yesterday," he said, unwillingly. "How far are you?"

They fell into talk about Duddon and the neighbourhood, avoiding any further discussion of
Melrose. Then Faversham described his accident, and spoke warmly of Undershaw, an occupation
in which Tatham heartily joined.

"I owe my life to him," said Faversham; adding with sudden sharpness, "I suppose I must count
it an advantage!"

"That would be the common way of looking at it!" laughed Tatham. "What are you doing just now?"

"Nothing in particular. I am one of the large tribe of briefless barristers. I suppose I've
never given enough of my mind to it. The fact is I don't like the law--never have. I've tried
other things--fatal, of course!--but they haven't come off, or at least only very moderately.
But, as you may suppose--I'm not exactly penniless. I have a few resources--just enough to
live on--without a wife."

Tatham felt a little awkward. Faversham's tone was already that of a man to some extent disappointed
and embittered.

"You had always so much more brains than the rest of us," he said cordially. "You'll be all right."

"It's not brains that matter nowadays--it's money. What do you get by brains? A civil service
appointment--and a pension of seven hundred a year. What's the good of slaving for that?"

Faversham turned to his companion with a smile, in which however there was no good-humour.
It made Tatham disagreeably conscious of his own wealth.

"Well, of course, there are the prizes--"

"A few. So few that they don't count. A man may grind for years, and get passed over or forgotten--just
by a shave--at the end. I've seen that happen often. Or you get on swimmingly for a while,
and everybody supposes you're going to romp in; and then something crops up you never thought
of. Some boss takes a dislike to you--or you make a mistake, and cut your own throat. And there
you are--pulled!"

Tatham was silent a moment, his blunt features expressing some bewilderment. Then he said--awkwardly:

"So you don't really know what you're going to take up?"

Faversham lit another cigarette.

"Oh, well, I have some friends--and some ideas. If I once get a foothold, a beginning--I daresay
I could make money like other people. Every idiot one meets seems to be doing it."

"Do you want to go into politics--or something of that kind?"

"I want to remain my own master, and do the things I want to do--and not the things I must
do," laughed Faversham. "That seems to me the dividing line in life--whether you are under
another man's orders or your own. And broadly speaking it's the line between poverty and money.
But you don't know much about it, old fellow!" He looked round with a laugh.

Tatham screwed up his blue eyes, not finding reply very easy, and not certain that he liked
the "old fellow," though their college familiarity justified it. He changed the subject, and
they fell into some gossip about Oxford acquaintances and recollections, which kept the conversation
going.

But at the end of it the two men were each secretly conscious that the other jarred upon him;
and in spite of the tacit appeal made by Faversham's physical weakness and evident depression
to Tatham's boundless good-nature, there had arisen between them at the end an incipient antagonism
which a touch might develop. Faversham appeared to the younger man as querulous, discontented,
and rather sordidly ambitious; while the smiling optimism of a youth on whom Fortune had showered
every conceivable gift--money, position, and influence--without the smallest effort on his
own part, rang false or foolish in the ears of his companion. Tatham, cut off from the county,
agricultural, or sporting subjects in which he was most at home, fumbled a good deal in his
efforts to adjust himself; while Faversham found it no use to talk of travel, art, or music
to one who, in spite of an artistic and literary mother and wonderful possessions, had himself
neither literary nor artistic faculty, and in the prevailing manner of the English country
gentleman, had always found the pleasures of England so many and superior that there was no
need whatever to cross the Channel in pursuit of others. Both were soon bored; and Tatham would
have hurried his departure, but for the hope of Lydia. With that to fortify him, however, he
sat on.

And at last she came. Mrs. Penfold, it will easily be imagined, entered upon the scene, in
a state of bewildered ravishment.

"She had never expected--she could not have believed--it was like a fairy-tale--a real fairy-tale--wasn't
the house too beautiful--Mr. Melrose's taste!--and such things!" In the wake of this soft,
gesticulating whirlwind, followed Lydia, waiting patiently with her bright and humorous look
till her mother should give her the chance of a word. Her gray dress, and white hat, her little
white scarf, a trifle old-fashioned, and the pansies at her belt seemed to Tatham's eager eyes
the very perfection of dress. He watched her keenly as she came in; the kind look at Faversham;
then the start--was it, of pity?--for his altered aspect, the friendly greeting for himself;
and all so sweet, so detached, so composed. His heart sank, he could not have told why.

"I ought to have warned you of that hill!" she said, standing beside Faversham, and looking
down upon him.

"You couldn't know I was such a duffer!" laughed Faversham. "It wasn't me--it was the bike.
At least, they tell me so. As for me, everything, from the moment I left you till I woke up
here six weeks ago, is wiped out. Did you finish your sketch? Were the press notices good?"

She smiled. "Did you see what they were?"

"Certainly. I saw your name in one as I picked it out."

"I still sleep with it under my pillow--when I feel low," said Lydia. "It said the nicest things.
And I sold my pictures."

"Magnificent!" said Faversham. "But of course you sold them."

"Oh, no, Mr. Faversham, not 'of course'!" cried Mrs. Penfold, turning round upon him. "You
can't think how Lydia was envied! Hardly anybody sold. There were friends of hers exhibiting--and
it was dreadful. The secretary said they had hardly ever had such a bad year--something to
do with a bank breaking--or the influenza--or something. But Lydia, lucky girl, sold hers within
the first week. And we don't know at all who bought them. The secretary said he was not to
tell. There are many buyers, he told us, who won't give their names--for fear of being bothered
afterward. As if Lydia would ever bother any one!"

The guilty Tatham sat with his cane between his knees twirling it, his eyes on the ground.
No one noticed him.

"And the sketch you were making that day?" said Faversham.

"As you liked it, I brought it to show you," said Lydia shyly. And she produced a thin parcel
she had been carrying under her arm.

Faversham praised the drawing warmly. It reminded him, he said, of some work he had seen in
March, at one of the Bond Street galleries; a one-man show by a French water-colourist. He
named him. Lydia flushed a little.

"Next to Mr. Delorme"--she glanced gratefully at Tatham--"he is the man of all the world I
admire most! I am afraid I can't help imitating him."

"But you don't!" cried Faversham. "You are quite independent. I didn't mean that for a moment."

Lydia's eyes surveyed him with a look of amusement, which seemed to say that she was not at
all duped by his compliment. He proceeded to justify it.

"I'll tell you who do imitate him--"

And forthwith he began to show a remarkable knowledge of certain advanced groups among the
younger artists and their work. Lydia's face kindled. She listened; she agreed; she interrupted;
she gave her view; it was evident that the conversation both surprised and delighted her.

Tea came out, and, at Faversham's invitation, Lydia presided. The talk between her and Faversham
flowed on, in spite of the girl's pretty efforts to make it general, to bring Tatham into it.
He himself defeated her. He wanted to listen; so did Mrs. Penfold, who sat in open-mouthed
wonder at Lydia's cleverness; while Tatham was presently conscious of a strong discomfort,
a jealous discomfort, which spoilt for him this nearness to Lydia, and the thrill stirred in
him by her movements and tones, her soft laugh, her white neck, her eyes....

Here, between these two people, Faversham and Lydia, who had only seen each other for some
ten minutes in their lives before, there seemed to have arisen, at once, an understanding,
a freemasonry, such as he himself had never reached in all his meetings with Lydia Penfold.

How had it come about? They talked of people, struggling people, to whom art was life, though
also livelihood; of men and women, for whom nothing else counted, beside the fascination and
the torment of their work; Lydia speaking from within, as a humble yet devout member of the
band; Faversham, as the keen spectator and amateur--not an artist, but the frequenter of artists.

And all the time Lydia's face wore a happy animation which redoubled its charm. Faversham was
clearly making a good impression upon her, was indeed set on doing so, helped always by the
look of delicacy, the traces of suffering, which appealed to her pity. Tatham moved restlessly
in his chair, and presently he got up, and proposed to Mrs. Penfold that they should examine
the improvements in the garden.

      *       *       *       *       *

When they returned, Lydia and Faversham were still talking and still absorbed.

"Lydia, my dear," cried her mother, "I am afraid we shall be tiring Mr. Faversham! Now you
must let Lord Tatham show you the garden--that's been made in a week! It's like that part in
'Monte Cristo,' where he orders an avenue at breakfast-time, that's to be ready by dinner--don't
you remember? It's thrilling!"

Lydia rose obediently, and Mrs. Penfold slipped into her seat. Lydia, strolling with Tatham
along the rampart wall which crowned the sandstone cliff, was now and then uncomfortably aware
as they passed the tea-table of the soft shower of questions that her mother was raining upon
Faversham.

"You really think, Mr. Faversham"--the tone was anxiously lowered--"the daughter is dead?--the
daughter and the mother?"

"I know nothing!"

"She would be the heiress?"

"If she were alive? Morally, I suppose, not legally, unless her father pleased."

"Oh! Mr. Faversham!--but you would never suggest--"

Lydia came to the rescue:

"Mother, really we ought to ask for the pony-carriage."

Faversham protested, but Lydia was firm, and the hand-bell beside him was rung. Mrs. Penfold
flushed. She quite understood that Lydia thought it unseemly to be putting a guest through
a string of questions about the private affairs of his host; but the inveterate gossip in her
whimpered.

"You see when one has watched a place for months--and people tell you such tales--and you come
and find it so different--and so--so fascinating--"

She paused, her plaintive look, under her wistful eyebrows, appealing to Faversham to come
to her aid, to justify her curiosity.

Suddenly, a sound of wheels from the front.

Lydia offered her hand to Faversham.

"I'm afraid we've tired you!"

"Tired! When will you come to see me again?"

"Will it be permitted?" She laid a finger on her lip, as she glanced smiling at the house.

He begged them to repeat their visit. Tatham looked on in silence. The figure of Lydia, delicately
bright against the dark background of the Tower, absorbed him, and this time there was something
painful and strained in his perception of it. In his first meeting with her that day he had
been all hopefulness--content to wait and woo. Now, as he saw her with Faversham, as he perceived
the nascent comradeship between them, and the reason for it, he felt a first vague suffering.

A step approached through the sitting-room of which the door was open to the terrace.

The two ladies escorted by Tatham moved toward the house expecting Dixon with the announcement
of their carriage.

A tall figure stood in the doorway. There was a checked exclamation from Tatham, and Faversham
perceived to his amazement that it was not Dixon--but--Melrose!

       *       *       *       *       *

Melrose surveyed the group. Removing his old hat he bowed gravely to the ladies. His flowing
hair, and largely cut classical features gave him an Apollonian aspect as he towered above
the startled group, looking down on them with an expression half triumphant, half sarcastic.
Tatham was the first to recover himself. He approached Melrose with a coolness like his own.

"You are back early, sir? I apologize for my intrusion, which will not be prolonged. I came,
as you see, to inquire after my old friend, Mr. Faversham."

"So I understand. Well--what's wrong with him? Isn't he doing well--eh? Faversham, will you
introduce me to your friends?"

Mrs. Penfold, so much shaken by the sudden appearance of the Ogre that words failed her, bowed
profoundly; Lydia slightly. She was indignant for Tatham. Mr. Melrose, having announced his
absence for the day, ought not to have returned upon them by surprise, and his manner convinced
her that it had been done on purpose.

"They gave you tea?" said Melrose to Mrs. Penfold, with gruff civility, as he descended the
steps. "Oh, we keep open house nowadays. You're going?" This was in answer to Tatham's bow
which he slightly acknowledged. "Good-day, good-day! You'll find your horse. Sorry you're so
hurried."

Followed by the old man's insolent eyes, Tatham shook hands with Faversham and the Penfolds;
then without reentering the house, he took a short cut across the garden and disappeared.

"Hm!" said Melrose, looking after him, "I can't say he resembles his mother. His father was
a plain fellow."

No one answered him. Mrs. Penfold nervously pressed for her carriage, throwing herself on the
help of Dixon, who was removing the tea things. Melrose meanwhile seated himself, and with
a magnificent gesture invited the ladies to do the same. Mrs. Penfold obeyed; Lydia remained
standing behind her mother's chair. The situation reminded her of a covey of partridges when
a hawk is hovering.

Mrs. Penfold at once began to make conversation, saying the most dishevelled things for sheer
fright. Melrose threw her a monosyllable now and then, reserving all his attention for the
young girl, whose beauty he instantly perceived. His piercing eyes travelled from Faversham
to Lydia repeatedly, and the invalid rather angrily divined the conjectures which might be
passing in their owner's brain.

      *       *       *       *       *

"How are you?" asked Melrose abruptly, when he returned from accompanying the Penfolds to the
front door.

Faversham replied with some coldness. He was disgusted that Melrose should have spoilt the
final success of his little festa by the breach of a promise he had himself volunteered.

But Melrose appeared to be in an unusually good temper, and he took no notice. He had had considerable
success that morning, it appeared, at an auction of some fine things at a house near Carlisle;
having not only secured what he wanted himself, but having punished two or three of his most
prominent rivals, by bidding high for some inferior thing, exciting their competition, and
then at the critical moment dropping it on the nose, as he explained it, of one of his opponents.
"Wilson of York came to me nearly in tears, and implored me to take some beastly pot or other
that I had made him buy at a ridiculous price. I told him he might keep it, as a reminder that
I always paid those out who bid against me. Then I found I could get an earlier train home;
and I confess I was curious to see how young Tatham would look, on my premises. He did not
expect that I should catch him here." The Ogre chuckled.

"You told me, if you remember," said Faversham, not without emphasis, "that I was to say to
him you would not be at home."

"I know. But sometimes there are impulses--of different kinds--that I can't resist. Of different
kinds--" repeated Melrose, his glittering, absent look fixed on Faversham.

There was silence a little. Then Melrose said slowly, as he rose from his chair: "I have--a
rather important proposition to make to you. That fellow Undershaw would attack me if I began
upon it now. Moreover, it will want a fresh mind. Will it suit you if I come to see you at
eleven o'clock to-morrow?"

IX

On the following morning, Faversham, for the first time, dressed without assistance, and walked
independently--save for his stick--into his sitting-room. The July day was rather chill and
rainy and he decided to await Melrose indoors.

As to the "important proposal" his mind was full of conjectures. What he thought most probable
was that Melrose intended, according to various fresh hints and indications, to make him another
and a more serious offer for his gems--no doubt a big offer. They were worth at least three
thousand pounds, and Melrose of course knew their value to a hair.

"Well, I shall not sell them," thought Faversham, his hands behind his head, his eyes following
the misty course of the river, and the rain showers scudding over the fells. "I shall not sell
them."

His mind clung obstinately to this resolve. His ambitions with regard to money went, in fact,
so far beyond anything that three thousand pounds could satisfy, that the inducement to sell
at such a price--which he knew to be the market price--and wound thereby the deepest and sincerest
of his affections, was not really great. The little capital on which he lived was nearly double
the sum, and could be made to yield a fair income by small and judicious speculation. He did
not see that he should be much better off for the addition to it of three thousand pounds;
and on the other hand, were the gems sold, he should have lost much that he keenly valued--the
prestige of ownership; the access which it gave him to circles, learned or wealthy, which had
been else closed to him; the distinction attaching thereby to his otherwise obscure name in
catalogues and monographs, English or foreign. So long as he possessed the "Mackworth gems"
he was, in the eyes of the world of connoisseurs, at any rate, a personage. Without them he
was a personage nowhere. Every month, every week, almost, he was beginning to receive requests
to be allowed to see and study them, or appeals to lend them for exhibition. In the four months
since his uncle's death, both the Louvre and the Berlin Museum had approached him, offering
to exhibit them, and hinting that the loan might lead, should he so desire it, to a very profitable
sale. If he did anything of the kind, he was pledged of course to give the British Museum the
first chance. But he was not going to do it--he was not even going to lend them--yet a while.
To possess them, and the kudos that went with them; not to sell them, for sentimental reasons,
and even at a money loss, made a poor man proud, and ministered in strange ways to his self-respect,
which went often rather hungry; gave him, in short, a standing with himself, and with the world.
All the more, that the poor man's mind was in fact, set passionately on the conquest of wealth--real
and substantial wealth--to which the paltry sum of three thousand pounds bore no sort of relation.

No, he would not sell them. But he braced himself to a tussle with Melrose, for he seemed to
have gathered from a number of small indications that the fierce old collector had set his
heart upon them. And no doubt this business of the newly furnished rooms, and all the luxuries
that had been given or promised, made it more difficult--had been intended, perhaps, to make
it more difficult? Well, he could but say his No and depart, expressing his gratitude--and
insisting on the payment of his score!

But--depart where? The energies of renewed health were pulsing through him, and yet he had
seldom felt more stranded, or, except in connection with the gems, more insignificant, either
to himself or others; in spite of this palace which had been oddly renovated for his convenience.
His uncle's death had left him singularly forlorn, deprived of the only home he had ever possessed,
and the only person who felt for him a close and spontaneous affection. For his other uncle--his
only remaining relation--was a crusty and selfish widower, with whom he had been on little
more than formal terms. The rheumatic gout pleaded in the letter to Undershaw had been, he
was certain, a mere excuse.

Well--something must be done; some fresh path opened up. He had in Fact left London in a kind
of secret exasperation with himself and circumstance, making an excuse out of meeting the Ransoms--mere
acquaintances--at Liverpool; and determined, after the short tour to which they had invited
him, to plunge himself for a week or two in the depths of a Highland glen where he might fish
and think.

The Ransoms, machine manufacturers from St. Louis, had made matters worse. Such wealth!--such
careless, vulgar, easily gotten wealth!--heaped up by means that seemed to the outsider so
facile, and were, in truth, for all but a small minority, so difficult. A commonplace man and
a frivolous woman; yet possessed, through their mere money, of a power over life and its experiences,
such as he, Faversham, might strive for all his days and never come near. It might be said
of course--Herbert Ransom would probably say it--that all men are worth the wages they get;
with an obvious deduction in his own case. But when or where had he ever got his chance--a
real chance? Visions of the rich men among his acquaintance, sleek, half-breed financiers,
idle, conceited youths of the "classes," pushed on by family interest; pig-headed manufacturers,
inheritors of fortunes they could never have made; the fatteners on colonial land and railway
speculation--his whole mind rose in angry revolt against the notion that he could not have
done, personally, as well as any of them, had there only been the initial shove, the favourable
moment.

       *       *       *       *       *

He envied those who had beaten him in the race, he frankly admitted it; but he must also allow
himself the luxury of despising them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Melrose was late.

Faversham rose and hobbled to the window, his hands on his sides, frowning--a gaunt figure
in the rainy light. With the return of physical strength there had come a passionate renewal
of desire--desire for happiness and success. The figure of Lydia Penfold hovered perpetually
in his mind. Marriage!--his whole being, moral and physical, cried out for it. But how was
he ever to marry?--how could he ever give such a woman as that the setting and the scope she
could reasonably claim?

"A bad day!" said a harsh voice behind him, "but all the better for business."

Faversham turned to greet his host, the mental and physical nerves tightening.

"Good morning. Well, here I am"--his laugh showed his nervousness--"at your disposal."

He settled himself in his chair. Melrose took a cigarette from the table, and offered one to
his guest. He lit and smoked in silence for a few moments, then began to speak with deliberation:

"I gather from our conversations, Faversham, during the last few weeks that you have at the
present moment no immediate or pressing occupation?"

Quick colour leapt in Faversham's lean cheek.

"That is true. It happens to be true--for various reasons. But if you mean to imply by that,
that I am necessarily--or willingly--an idler, you are mistaken."

"I did not mean to imply anything of the kind. I merely wished, so to speak, to clear the way
for what I have to propose."

Faversham nodded. Melrose continued:

"For clearly it would be an impertinence on my part were I to attempt--suddenly--to lift a
man out of a fixed groove and career, and suggest to him another. I should expect to be sent
to the devil--and serve me right. But in your case--correct me if I am wrong--you seem not
yet to have discovered the groove that suits you. Now I am here to propose to you a groove--and
a career."

Faversham looked at him with astonishment. The gems, which had been so urgently present to
his mind, receded from it. Melrose in his skullcap, sitting sideways in his chair, his cigarette
held aloft, presented a profile which might have been that of some Venetian Doge, old, withered
and crafty, engaged, say, in negotiation with a Genoese envoy.

"When you were first brought here," Melrose continued--"your presence, as Undershaw has no
doubt told you--of course he has told you, small blame to him--was extremely distasteful to
me. I am a recluse. I like no women--and d----d few men. I can do without them, that's all;
their intimate company, anyway: and my pursuits bring me all the amusement I require. Such
at any rate was my frame of mind up to a few weeks ago. I don't apologize for it in the least.
Every man has a right to his own idiosyncrasies. But I confess that your society during the
last few weeks--I am in no mood for mere compliment--has had a considerable effect upon me.
It has revealed to me that I am no longer so young as I was, or so capable--apparently--of
entertaining myself. At any rate your company--I put it quite frankly--instead of being a nuisance--has
been a godsend. It has turned out that we have many of the same tastes; and your inheritance
of the treasures collected by my old friend Mackworth"--("Ah!" thought Faversham, "now we come
to it!")--"has made from the first, I think, a link between us. Have I your assent?"

"Certainly."

Melrose paused a moment, and then resumed. The impression he made was that of one rehearsing,
point by point, a prepared speech.

"At the same time, I have become more aware than usual of the worries and annoyances connected
with the management of my estates. We live, sir, in a world of robbers"--Melrose suddenly rounded
on his companion, his withered face aflame--"a world of robbers, and of rapine! Not a single
Tom, Dick, and Harry in these parts that doesn't think himself my equal and more. Not a single
tenant on my estate that doesn't try at every point to take advantage of his landlord! Not
a single tramp or poacher that doesn't covet my goods--that wouldn't murder me if he could,
and sleep like a baby afterward. I tell you, sir, we shall see a jacquerie in England, before
we are through with these ideas that are now about us like the plague; that every child imbibes
from our abominable press!--that our fools of clergy--our bishops even--are not ashamed to
preach. There is precious little sense of property, and not a single rag of loyalty or respect
left in this country! But when you think of the creatures that rule us--and the fanatics who
preach to us--and the fools who bring up our children, what else can you expect! The whole
state is rotten! The men in our great towns are ripe for any revolutionary villainy. We shall
come to blood, Faversham!"--he struck his hand violently on the arm of his chair--"and then
a dictator--the inevitable round. Well, I have done my part. I have fought the battle of property
in this country--the battle of every squire in Cumbria, if the dolts did but know their own
interests. Instead they have done nothing but thwart and bully me for twenty years. And young
Tatham with his County Council nonsense, and his popularity hunting, is one of the very worst
of them! Well, now I've done!--personally. I daresay they'll crow--they'll say I'm beat. Anyway,
I've done. There'll have to be fighting, but some one else must see to it. I intend to put
my affairs into fresh hands. It is my purpose to appoint a new agent--and to give him complete
control of my property!"

Melrose stopped abruptly. His hard eyes in their deep, round orbits were fixed on Faversham.
The young man was mainly conscious of a half-hysterical inclination to laugh, which he strangled
as he best could. Was he to be offered the post?

"And, moreover," Melrose resumed, "I want a secretary--I want a companion--I want some one
who will help me to arrange the immense, the priceless collections there are stacked in this
house--unknown to anybody--hardly known, in the lapse of years, even to myself. I desire to
unravel my own web, so to speak--to spin off my own silk--to examine and analyze what I have
accumulated. There are rooms here--containing masterpieces--unique treasures--that have never
been opened for years--whose contents I have myself forgotten. That's why people call me a
madman. Why? What did I want with a big establishment eating up my income?--with a lot of prying
idiots from outside--museum bores, bothering me for loans--common tourists, offering impertinent
tips to my housekeeper, or picking and stealing, perhaps, when her back was turned! I bought
the things, and shut them up. They were safe, anyway. But now that process has gone on for
a quarter of a century. You come along. A chance--a freak--a caprice, if you like, makes me
arrange these rooms for you. That gives me new ideas--"

He turned and looked with sharp, slow scrutiny round the walls:

"The fact is I have been so far engaged in hoarding--heaping together. The things in this house--my
extraordinary collections--have been the nuts--and I, the squirrel. But now the nuts are bursting
out of the hole, and the squirrel wants to see what he's got. That brings me to my point!"

He turned emphatically toward Faversham, leaning hard on a marqueterie table that stood between
them:

"I offer you, sir, the post, the double post, of agent to my property, and of private secretary,
or assistant to myself. I offer you a salary of three thousand a year--three thousand pounds,
a year--if you will undertake the management of my estates, and be my lieutenant in the arrangement
of my collections. I wish--as I have said--to unpack this house; and I should like to leave
my property in order before I die. Which reminds me, I should of course be perfectly ready
to make proper provision, by contract, or otherwise, so that in the event of any sudden termination
of our agreement--my death for instance--you should be adequately protected. Well, there, in
outline, is my proposal!"

During this extraordinary speech Faversham's countenance had reflected with tolerable clearness
the various impressions made by it--incredulous or amused astonishment--bewilderment--deepening
gravity--coming round again to astonishment. He raised himself in his chair.

"You wish to make me your agent--the agent for these immense estates?"

"I do. I had an excellent agent once--twenty years ago. But old Dovedale stole him from me--bribed
him by higher pay. Since then I have had nothing but clerks--rent-collectors--rascally makeshifts,
all of them."

"But I know nothing about land--I have had no experience!"

"A misfortune--but in some ways to the good. I don't want any cocksure fellow, with brand-new
ideas lording it over me. I should advise you of course."

"But--at the same time--I should not be content with a mere clerk's place, Mr. Melrose," said
Paversham, a momentary flash in his dark eye. "I am one of those men who are better as principals
than as subordinates. Otherwise I should be in harness by now."

Melrose eyed him askance for a moment--then said: "I understand. I should be willing to steer
my course accordingly--to give you a reasonable freedom. There are two old clerks in the estate-office,
who know everything that is to be known about the property, and there are my solicitors both
in Carlisle and Pengarth. For the rest, you are a lawyer, and there are some litigations pending.
Your legal knowledge would be of considerable service. If you are the clever fellow I take
you for, a month or two's hard work, the usual technical books, some expert advice--and I have
little doubt you would make as good an agent as any of them. Mind, I am not prepared to spend
unlimited money--nor to run my estates as a Socialist concern. But I gather you are as good
a Conservative as myself."

Faversham was silent a moment, observing the man before him. The whole thing was too astounding.
At last he said: "You are not prepared, sir, you say, to spend unlimited money. But the sum
you offer me is unheard of."

"For an agent, yes--for a secretary, yes--for a combination of the two, under the peculiar
circumstances, the market offers no precedents. You and I make a market--and a price."

"You would expect me to live in this house?"

"I gather these rooms are not disagreeable to you?"

"Disagreeable! They are too sumptuous. If I did this thing, sir, I should want to do it in
a businesslike way."

"You want an office? Take your choice." Melrose's gesture indicated the rest of the house.
"There are rooms enough. But you will want some place, I imagine, where you can be at home,
receive friends--like the young lady and her mother yesterday--and so on."

His smile made him more Ogreish than before.

He resumed:

"And by the way, if you accepted my proposal, I should naturally expect that for a time you
would devote yourself wholly to the organization of the collections, inside the house, and
to the work of the estate, outside it. But you are of an age when a man hopes to marry. I should
of course take that into account. In a year or two--"

"Oh, I have no immediate ideas of that kind," said Faversham, hastily.

There was a pause. At the end of it Faversham turned on his companion. A streak of feverish
colour, a sparkling vivacity in the eyes, showed the effect produced by the conversation. But
he had kept his head throughout the whole interview, and a certain unexpected strength in his
personality had revealed itself to Melrose:

"You will hardly expect me, sir, to give an immediate answer to these proposals?"

"Take your time--take your time--in moderation," said Melrose, drumming on the table before him.

"And there are of course a few things that I on my side should wish to know."

A series of inquiries followed: as to the term of the proposed engagement; the degree of freedom
that would be granted him; the date at which his duties would begin, supposing he undertook
them--("To-morrow, if it pleases you!" said Melrose, jovially)--passing on to the general circumstances
of the estates, and the nature of the pending litigations. The questions were put with considerable
tact, but were none the less shrewd. Melrose's strange character with its mixture of sagacity,
folly, and violence, had never been more acutely probed--though quite indirectly.

At the end of them his companion rose.

"You have a talent for cross-examination," he said with a rather sour smile. "I leave you.
We have talked enough."

"Let me at least express before you go the gratitude I feel for proposals so flattering--so
generous," said Faversham, not without emotion; "and for all the kindness I have received here,
a kindness that no man could ever forget."

Melrose looked at him oddly, seemed about to speak--then muttered something hardly intelligible,
ceased abruptly, and departed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The master of the Tower went slowly to his library through the splendid gallery, where Mrs.
Dixon and the new housemaid were timidly dusting. But he took no notice of them. He went into
his own room, locked his door, and having lit his own fire, he settled down to smoke and ruminate.
He was exhausted, and his seventy years asserted themselves. The radical alteration in his
habits and outlook which the preceding six weeks had produced, the excitement of unpacking
the treasures now displayed in the gallery, the constant thinkings and plannings connected
with Faversham and the future, and, lastly, the interview just concluded, had tried his strength.
Certain symptoms--symptoms of old age--annoyed him though he would not admit it. No doubt some
change was wanted. He must smoke less--travel less--give himself more variety and more amusement.
Well, if Faversham consented, he should at least have bought for himself a companionship that
was agreeable to him, and relief from a number of routine occupations which he detested.

Suddenly--a child's voice--a child's shrill voice, ringing through the gallery--followed by
scufflings and hushings, on the part of an older person--then a wail--and silence. Melrose
had risen to his feet with an exclamation. Some peculiar quality in the voice--some passionate,
thrilling quality--had produced for the moment an extraordinary illusion.

He recovered himself in a moment. It was of course the child of the upholstress who had been
working in the house for a week or so. He remembered to have noticed the little girl. But the
sound had inevitably suggested thoughts he had no wish to entertain. He had a letter in his
pocket at that moment which he did not mean to answer--the first he had received for many years.
If he once allowed a correspondence to grow up--with that individual--on the subject of money,
there would be no end to it; it would spread and spread, till his freedom was once more endangered.
He did not intend that persons, who had been once banished from his life, should reenter it--on
any pretext. Netta had behaved to him like a thief and a criminal, and with the mother went
the child. They were nothing to him, and never should be anything. If she was in trouble, let
her go to her own people.

He took out the letter, and dropped it into the midst of the burning logs before him. Then
he turned to a heap of sale catalogues lying near him, and after going through them, he rose,
and as though drawn to it by a magnetic power, he went to the Riesener table, and unlocked
the drawer which held the gems.

Bringing them back to the fireside he watched the play of the flames on their shining surfaces,
delighting greedily in their beauty; in the long history attaching to each one of them, every
detail of which he knew; in the sense of their uniqueness. Nothing like them of their kind,
anywhere; and there they were in his hand, after these years of fruitless coveting. He had
often made Mackworth offers for them; and Mackworth had laughed at him.

Well, he had bid high enough this time, not for the gems themselves, but for the chance of
some day persuading their owner to entertain the notion of selling them. It pleased him to
guess at what had been probably Faversham's secret expectation that morning of a proposal for
them; and to think that he had baffled it.

He might, of course, have made some quite preposterous offer which would have forced the young
man's hand. But that might have meant, probably would have meant, the prompt departure of the
enriched Faversham. But he wanted both Faversham and the gems; as much as possible--that is,
for his money. The thought of returning to his former solitariness was rapidly becoming intolerable
to him. Meanwhile the adorable things were still under his roof; and with a mad pleasure he
relocked the drawer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Faversham spent the rest of the morning in cogitations that may be easily imagined. He certainly
attributed some share in the extraordinary proposal that had been made to him, to his possession
of the gems, and to Melrose's desire to beguile them from him. But what then? Sufficient for
the day! He would decide how to deal with that crisis when it should arrive.

Meanwhile, the amazing proposal itself was before him. If it were accepted, he should be at
once a comparatively rich man, with an infinity of chances for the future; for Melrose's financial
interest and influence were immense. If not free to marry immediately, he would certainly be
free--as Melrose himself had hinted--to prepare for marriage. But could he do the work?--could
he get on with the old man?--could he endure the life?

After luncheon Dixon, with the subdued agitation of manner which showed the advent of yet another
change in the household, came in to announce that a motor had come from Carlisle, that Mr.
Melrose did not propose to use it himself, and hoped that Mr. Faversham would take a drive.

It was the invalid's first excursion into the outer world.

He sat breathing in great draughts of the scented summer air, feeling his life and strength
come back into him.

The rain had passed, and the fells rose clear and high above the moist hay meadows and the
fresh-leaved trees.

As they emerged upon the Keswick road he tapped the chauffeur on the shoulder. "Do you know
Green Cottage?"

"Mrs. Penfold's, sir? Certainly."

"How far is it?"

"I should say about two miles."

"Go there, please."

The two miles passed for Faversham in a double excitement he had some difficulty in concealing;
the physical excitement of change and movement, of this reentry upon a new world, which was
the old; and the mental excitement of his own position.

At the cottage door, he dismounted slowly. The maid-servant said she thought Mrs. Penfold was
in the garden. Would the gentleman please come in?

