Of furniture there was not much, only an open cupboard, displaying two silver cups and tankards,
a sauce-pan of the same metal, a few tall, slender, Venetian glasses, a little pewter, and
some rare shells.  A few high-backed chairs were ranged against the wall; there was a tall
"armory," i.e. a linen-press of dark oak, guarded on each side by the twisted weapons of the
sea unicorn, and in the middle of the room stood a large, solid-looking table, adorned with
a brown earthenware beau-pot, containing a stiff posy of roses, southernwood, gillyflowers,
pinks and pansies, of small dimensions.  On hooks, against the wall, hung a pair of spurs,
a shield, a breastplate, and other pieces of armour, with an open helmet bearing the dog, the
well-known crest of the Talbots of the Shrewsbury line.

On the polished floor, near the window, were a child's cart, a little boat, some whelks and
limpets.  Their owner, a stout boy of three years old, in a tight, borderless, round cap, and
home-spun, madder-dyed frock, lay fast asleep in a big wooden cradle, scarcely large enough,
however, to contain him, as he lay curled up, sucking his thumb, and hugging to his breast
the soft fragment of a sea-bird's downy breast. If he stirred, his mother's foot was on the
rocker, as she sat spinning, but her spindle danced languidly on the floor, as if "feeble was
her hand, and silly her thread;" while she listened anxiously, for every sound in the street
below.  She wore a dark blue dress, with a small lace ruff opening in front, deep cuffs to
match, and a white apron likewise edged with lace, and a coif, bent down in the centre, over
a sweet countenance, matronly, though youthful, and now full of wistful expectancy; not untinged
with anxiety and sorrow.

Susan Hardwicke was a distant kinswoman of the famous Bess of Hardwicke, and had formed one
of the little court of gentlewomen with whom great ladies were wont to surround themselves.
There she met Richard Talbot, the second son of a relative of the Earl of Shrewsbury, a young
man who, with the indifference of those days to service by land or sea, had been at one time
a gentleman pensioner of Queen Mary; at another had sailed under some of the great mariners
of the western main.  There he had acquired substance enough to make the offer of his hand
to the dowerless Susan no great imprudence; and as neither could be a subject for ambitious
plans, no obstacle was raised to their wedding.

He took his wife home to his old father's house in the precincts of Sheffield Park, where she
was kindly welcomed; but wealth did not so abound in the family but that, when opportunity
offered, he was thankful to accept the command of the Mastiff, a vessel commissioned by Queen
Elizabeth, but built, manned, and maintained at the expense of the Earl of Shrewsbury.  It
formed part of a small squadron which was cruising on the eastern coast to watch over the intercourse
between France and Scotland, whether in the interest of the imprisoned Mary, or of the Lords
of the Congregation.  He had obtained lodgings for Mistress Susan at Hull, so that he might
be with her when he put into harbour, and she was expecting him for the first time since the
loss of their second child, a daughter whom he had scarcely seen during her little life of
a few months.

Moreover, there had been a sharp storm a few days previously, and experience had not hardened
her to the anxieties of a sailor's wife. She had been down once already to the quay, and learnt
all that the old sailors could tell her of chances and conjectures; and when her boy began
to fret from hunger and weariness, she had left her serving-man, Gervas, to watch for further
tidings.  Yet, so does one trouble drive out another, that whereas she had a few days ago dreaded
the sorrow of his return, she would now have given worlds to hear his step.

