THE STRUCTURE OF THE BONES--When a bone is sawed lengthwise, it is found to be a compact shell
filled with a spongy substance This filling increases in quantity, and becomes more porous
at the ends of the bone, thus giving greater size to form a strong joint, while the solid portion
increases near the middle, where strength alone is needed. Each fiber of this bulky material
diminishes the shock of a sudden blow, and also acts as a beam to brace the exterior wall.
The recumbent position of the alligator protects him from falls, and therefore his bones contain
very little spongy substance.

In the body, bones are not the dry, dead, blanched things they commonly seem to be, but are
moist, living, pinkish structures, covered with a tough membrane, called the per-i-os'-te-um
[Footnote: The relations of the periosteum to the bone are very interesting. Instances are
on record where the bone has been removed, leaving the periosteum, from which the entire bone
was afterward renewed.] (peri, around, and osteon, a bone), while the hollow is filled with
marrow, rich in fat, and full of blood vessels. If we examine a thin slice with the microscope,
we shall see black spots with lines running in all directions, and looking very like minute
insects. These are really little cavities, called la-cu'-ne [Footnote: When the bone is dry,
the lacune are filled with air, which refracts the light, so that none of it reaches the eye,
and hence the cavities appear black.] from which radiate tiny tubes. The lacune are arranged
in circles around larger tubes, termed from their discoverer, Haversian canals, which serve
as passages for the blood vessels that nourish the bone.

GROWTH OF THE BONES.--By means of this system of canals, the blood circulates as freely through
the bones as through any part of the body, The whole structure is constantly but slowly changing,
[Footnote: Bone is sometimes produced with surprising rapidity. The great Irish Elk is calculated
by Prof. Owen to have cast off and renewed, annually in its antlers eighty pounds of bone.]
old material being taken out and new put in. A curious illustration is seen in the fact that
if madder be mixed with the food of pigs, it will tinge their bones red.

REPAIR OF THE BONES.--When a bone is broken, the blood at once oozes out of the fractured ends.
This soon gives place to a watery fluid, which in a fortnight thickens to a gristly substance,
strong enough to hold them in place. Bone matter is then slowly deposited, which in five or
six weeks will unite the broken parts. Nature, at first, apparently endeavors to remedy the
weakness of the material by excess in the quantity, and so the new portion is larger than the
old. But the extra matter will be gradually absorbed, sometimes so perfectly as to leave no
trace of the injury. (See p. 271.)

A broken limb should be held in place by splints, or a plaster cast, to enable this process
to go on uninterruptedly, and also lest a sudden jar might rupture the partially mended break.
For a long time, the new portion consists largely of animal matter, and so is tender and pliable.
The utmost care is therefore necessary to prevent a malformation.

THE JOINTS are packed with a soft, smooth cartilage, or gristle, which fits so perfectly as
to be airtight. Upon convex surfaces, it is thickest at the middle, and upon concave surfaces,
it is thickest at the edge, or where the wear is greatest. In addition, the ends of the bones
are covered with a thin membrane, the synovial (sun, with; ovum, an egg), which secretes a
viscid fluid, not unlike the white of an egg. This lubricates the joints, and prevents the
noise and wear of friction. The body is the only machine that oils itself.

The bones which form the joint are tied with stout ligaments (ligo, I bind), or bands, of a
smooth, silvery white tissue, [Footnote: The general term tissue is applied to the various
textures of which the organs are composed. For example, the osseous tissue forms the bones;
the fibrous tissue, the skin, tendons, and ligaments.] so strong that the bones are sometimes
broken without injuring the fastenings.

II. CLASSIFICATION OF THE BONES.

For convenience, the bones of the skeleton are considered in three divisions: the head, the
trunk, and the limbs.

1. THE HEAD.

THE BONES OF THE SKULL AND THE FACE form a cavity for the protection of the brain and the four
organs of sense, viz.: sight, smell, taste, and hearing. All these bones are immovable except
the lower jaw, which is hinged [Footnote: A ring of cartilage is inserted in its joints, something
after the manner of a washer in machinery. This follows the movements of the jaw, and admits
of freer motion, while it guards against dislocation.] at the back so as to allow for the opening
and shutting of the mouth.

THE SKULL is composed, in general, of two compact plates, with a spongy layer between. These
are in several pieces, the outer ones being joined by notched edges, sutures (su'tyurs,), in
the way carpenters term dovetailing. (See Fig. 4.)

FIG. 4.

The peculiar structure and form of the skull afford a perfect shelter for the brain--an organ
so delicate that, if unprotected, an ordinary blow would destroy it. Its oval or egg shape
adapts it to resist pressure. The smaller and stronger end is in front, where the danger is
greatest. Projections before and behind shield the less protected parts. The hard plates are
not easy to penetrate. [Footnote: Instances have been known where bullets, striking against
the skull, have glanced off, been flattened, or even split into halves. In the Peninsular Campaign,
the author saw a man who had been struck in the forehead by a bullet which, instead of penetrating
the brain, had followed the skull around to the back of the head, and there passed out.] The
spongy packing deadens every blow. [Footnote: An experiment resembling the familiar one of
the balls in Natural Philosophy ("Steele's Popular Physics," Fig. 6, p. 26), beautifully illustrates
this point. Several balls of ivory are suspended by cords, as in Fig. 5. If A be raised and
then let fall, it will transmit the force to B, and that to C, and so on until F is reached,
which will fly off with the impulse. If now a ball of spongy bone be substituted for an ivory
one anywhere in the line, the force will be checked, and the last ball will not stir.] The
separate pieces with their curious joinings disperse any jar which one may receive, and also
prevent fractures from spreading.

FIG. 5.

The frequent openings in this strong bone box afford safe avenues for the passage of numerous
nerves and vessels which communicate between the brain and the rest of the body.

FIG. 6.

2 THE TRUNK.

THE TRUNK has two important cavities. The upper part, or chest, contains the heart and the
lungs, and the lower part, or abdomen, holds the stomach, liver, kidneys, and other organs
(Fig. 31). The principal bones are those of the spine, the ribs, and the hips.

THE SPINE consists of twenty-four bones, between which are placed pads of cartilage. [Footnote:
These pads vary in thickness from one fourth to one half an inch. They become condensed by
the weight they bear during the day, so that we are somewhat shorter at evening than in the
morning. Their elasticity causes them to resume their usual size during the night, or when
we lie down for a time.] A canal is hollowed out of the column for the safe passage of the
spinal cord. (See Fig. 50.) Projections (processes) at the back and on either side are abundant
for the attachment of the muscles. The packing acts as a cushion to prevent any jar from reaching
the brain when we jump or run, while the double curve of the spine also tends to disperse the
force of a fall. Thus on every side the utmost caution is taken to guard that precious gem
in its casket.

THE PERFECTION OF THE SPINE surpasses all human contrivances. Its various uses seem a bundle
of contradictions. A chain of twenty-four bones is made so stiff that it will bear a heavy
burden, and so flexible that it will bend like rubber; yet, all the while, it transmits no
shock, and even hides a delicate nerve within that would thrill with the slightest touch. Resting
upon it, the brain is borne without a tremor; and, clinging to it, the vital organs are carried
without fear of harm.

FIG. 7.

THE SKULL ARTICULATES with (is jointed to) the spine in a peculiar manner. On the top of the
upper vertebra (atlas [Footnote: Thus called because, as, in ancient fable, the god Atlas supported
the world on his shoulders, so in the body this bone bears the head.]) are two little hollows
(a, b, Fig. 7), nicely packed and lined with the synovial membrane, into which fit the corresponding
projections on the lower part of the skull, and thus the head can rock to and fro. The second
vertebra (axis) has a peg, e, which projects through a hole, c, in the first.

FIG. 8.

The surfaces of both vertebre are so smooth that they easily glide on each other, and thus,
when we move the head side wise, the atlas turns around the peg, e, of the axis.

THE RIBS, also twenty-four in number, are arranged in pairs on each side of the chest. At the
back, they are all attached to the spine. In front, the upper seven pairs are tied by cartilages
to the breastbone (sternum); three are fastened to each other and to the cartilage above, and
two, the floating ribs, are loose.

The natural form of the chest is that of a cone diminishing upward. But, owing to the tightness
of the clothing commonly worn, the reverse is often the case. The long, slender ribs give lightness,
[Footnote: If the chest wall were in one bone thick enough to resist a blow, it would be unwieldy
and heavy As it is, the separate bones bound by cartilages yield gradually, and diffuse the
force among them all, and so are rarely broken.] the arched form confers strength, and the
cartilages impart elasticity,--properties essential to the protection of the delicate organs
within, and to freedom of motion in respiration. (See note, p. 80.)

FIG. 9.

THE HIP BONES, called by anatomists the innominata, or nameless bones, form an irregular basin
styled the pelvis (pelvis, a basin). In the upper part, is the foot of the spinal column--a
wedge-shaped bone termed the sacrum [Footnote: So called because it was anciently offered in
sacrifice.] (sacred), firmly planted here between the widespreading and solid bones of the
pelvis, like the keystone to an arch, and giving a steady support to the heavy burden above.

3. THE LIMBS.

TWO SETS OF LIMBS branch from the trunk, viz.: the upper, and the lower. They closely resemble
each other. The arm corresponds to the thigh; the forearm, to the leg; the wrist, to the ankle;
the fingers, to the toes. The fingers and the toes are so much alike that they receive the
same name, digits, while the several bones of both have also the common appellation, phalanges.
The differences which exist grow out of their varying uses. The foot is characterized by strength;
the hand, by mobility.

FIG. 10.

1. THE UPPER LIMBS.--THE SHOULDER.--The bones of the shoulder are the collar bone (clavicle),
and the shoulder blade (scapula). The clavicle (clavis, a key) is a long, slender bone, shaped
like the Italic f. It is fastened at one end to the breastbone and the first rib, and, at the
other, to the shoulder blade. (See Fig. 1.) It thus holds the shoulder joint out from the chest,
and gives the arm greater play. If it be removed or broken, the head of the arm bone will fall,
and the motions of the arm be greatly restricted. [Footnote: Animals which use the forelegs
only for support (as the horse, ox, etc.), do not possess this bone. "It is found in those
that dig, fly, climb and seize."]

THE SHOULDER BLADE is a thin, flat, triangular bone, fitted to the top and back of the chest,
and designed to give a foundation for the muscles of the shoulder.

THE SHOULDER JOINT.--The arm bone, or humerus, articulates with the shoulder blade by a ball-and-socket
joint. This consists of a cup-like cavity in the latter bone, and a rounded head in the former,
to fit it,-- thus affording a free rotary motion. The shallowness of the socket accounts for
the frequent dislocation of this joint, but a deeper one would diminish the easy swing of the arm.

FIG. 11.

THE ELBOW.--At the elbow, the humerus articulates with the ulna--a slender bone on the inner
side of the forearm--by a hinge joint which admits of motion in only two directions, i. e.,
backward and forward. The ulna is small at its lower end; the radius, or large bone of the
forearm, on the contrary, is small at its upper end, while it is large at its lower end, where
it forms the wrist joint. At the elbow, the head of the radius is convex and fits into a shallow
cavity in the ulna, while at the wrist the ulna plays in a similar socket in the radius. Thus
the radius may roll over and even cross the ulna.

THE WRIST, or carpus, consists of two rows of very irregular bones, one of which articulates
with the forearm; the other, with the hand. They are placed side to side, and so firmly fastened
as to admit of only a gliding motion. This gives little play, but great strength, elasticity,
and power of resisting shocks.

THE HAND.--The metacarpal (meta, beyond; karpos, wrist), or bones of the palm, support each
a thumb or a finger. Each finger has three bones, while the thumb has only two. The first bone
of the thumb, standing apart from the rest, enjoys a special freedom of motion, and adds greatly
to the usefulness of the hand.

FIG. 12.

The first bone (Figs. 11, 12) of each finger is so attached to the corresponding metacarpal
bone as to move in several directions upon it, but the other phalanges form hinge joints.

The fingers are named in order: the thumb, the index, the middle, the ring, and the little
finger. Their different lengths cause them to fit the hollow of the hand when it is closed,
and probably enable us more easily to grasp objects of varying size. If the hand clasps a ball,
the tips of the fingers will be in a straight line.

The hand in its perfection belongs only to man. Its elegance of outline, delicacy of mold,
and beauty of color have made it the study of artists; while its exquisite mobility and adaptation
as a perfect instrument have led many philosophers to attribute man's superiority even more
to the hand than to the mind. [Footnote: How constantly the hand aids us in explaining or enforcing
a thought! We affirm a fact by placing the hand as if we would rest it firmly on a body; we
deny by a gesture putting the false or erroneous proposition away from us; we express doubt
by holding the hand suspended, as if hesitating whether to take or reject. When we part from
dear friends, or greet them again after long absence, the hand extends toward them as if to
retain, or to bring them sooner to us. If a recital or a proposition is revolting, we reject
it energetically in gesture as in thought. In a friendly adieu we wave our good wishes to him
who is their object; but when it expresses enmity, by a brusque movement we sever every tie.
The open hand is carried backward to express fear or horror, as well as to avoid contact; it
goes forward to meet the hand of friendship; it is raised suppliantly in prayer toward Him
from whom we hope for help; it caresses lovingly the downy cheek of the infant, and rests on
its head invoking the blessing of Heaven,--Wonders of the Human Body.]

FIG. 13.

2. THE LOWER LIMBS.--THE HIP--The thigh bone, or femur, is the largest and necessarily the
strongest in the skeleton, since at every step it has to bear the weight of the whole body.
It articulates with the hip bone by a ball-and-socket joint. Unlike the shoulder joint, the
cup here is deep, thus affording less play, but greater strength. It fits so tightly that the
pressure of the air largely aids in keeping the bones in place. [Footnote: In order to test
this, a hole was bored through a hip bone, so as to admit air into the socket, the thigh bone
at once fell out as far as the ligaments would permit. An experiment was also devised whereby
a suitably prepared hip joint was placed under the receiver of an air pump. On exhausting the
air, the weight of the femur caused it to drop out of the socket, while the readmission of
the air raised it to its place. Without this arrangement, the adjacent muscles would have been
compelled to bear the additional weight of the thighbone every time it was raised. Now the
pressure of the air rids them of this unnecessary burden, and hence they are less easily fatigued--WEBER]
Indeed, when the muscles are cut away, great force is required to detach the limbs.

THE KNEE is strengthened by the patella, or kneepan (patella, little dish), a chestnut-shaped
bone firmly fastened over the joint.

The shin bone, or tibia, the large, triangular bone on the inner side of the leg, articulates
both with the femur and the foot by hinge joints. The kneejoint is so made, however, as to
admit of a slight rotary motion when the limb is not extended.

The fibula (fibula, a clasp), the small, outside bone of the leg, is firmly bound at each end
to the tibia. (See Fig. 1.) It is immovable, and, as the tibia bears the principal weight of
the body, the chief use of this second bone seems to be to give more surface to which the muscles
may be attached. [Footnote: A young man in the hospital at Limoges had lost the middle part
of his tibia. The lost bone was not reproduced, but the fibula, the naturally weak and slender
part of the leg, became thick and strong enough to support the whole body.--STANLEY'S Lectures.]

THE FOOT.--The general arrangement of the foot is strikingly like that of the hand (Fig. 1).
The several parts are the tarsus, the metatarsus, and the phalanges. The graceful arch of the
foot, and the numerous bones joined by cartilages, give an elasticity to the step that could
never be attained by a single, flat bone. [Footnote: The foot consists of an arch, the base
of which is more extended in front than behind, and the whole weight of the body is made to
fall on this arch by means of a variety of joints. These joints further enable the foot to
be applied, without inconvenience, to rough and uneven surfaces.--HINTON.] The toes naturally
lie straight forward in the line of the foot. Few persons in civilized nations, however, have
naturally formed feet. The big toe is crowded upon the others, while crossed toes, nails grown-in,
enormous joints, corns, and bunions abound.

THE CAUSE OF THESE DEFORMITIES is found in the shape and size of fashionable boots and shoes.
The sole ought to be large enough for full play of motion, the uppers should not crowd the
toes, and the heels should be low, flat, and broad. As it is, there is a constant warfare between
Nature and our shoemakers, [Footnote: When we are measured for boots or shoes, we should stand
on a sheet of paper, and have the shoemaker mark with a pencil the exact outline of our feet
as they bear our whole weight. When the shoe is made, the sole should exactly cover this outline.]
and we are the victims. The narrow point in front pinches our toes, and compels them to override
one another; the narrow sole compresses the arch; while the high heel, by throwing all the
weight forward on the toes, strains the ankle, and, by sending the pressure where Nature did
not design it to fall, causes that joint to become enlarged. The body bends forward to meet
the demand of this new motion, and thus loses its uprightness and beauty, making our gait stiff
and ungraceful. (See p. 271.)

DISEASES, ETC.--l. Rickets, a disease of early life, is caused by a lack of mineral matter
in the bones, rendering them soft and pliable, so that they bend under the weight of the body.
They thus become permanently distorted, and of course are weaker than if they were straight,
[Footnote: Just here appears an exceedingly beautiful provision. As soon as the disproportion
of animal matter ceases, a larger supply of mineral is sent to the weak points, and the bones
actually become thicker, denser, harder, and consequently stronger at the very concave part
where the stress of pressure is greatest.--WATSON'S Lectures. We shall often have occasion
to refer to similar wise and providential arrangements whereby the body is enabled to remedy
defects, and to prepare for accidents.] Rickets is most common among children who have inherited
a feeble constitution and who are ill fed, or who live in damp, ill-ventilated houses. "Rickety"
children should have plenty of fresh air and sunlight, nourishing food, comfortable clothing,
and, in short, the best of hygienic care.

2. A Felon is a swelling of the finger or thumb, usually of the last joint. It is marked by
an accumulation beneath the periosteum and next the bone. The physician will merely cut through
the periosteum, and let out the effete matter.

3. Bowlegs are caused by children standing on their feet before the bones of the lower limbs
are strong enough to bear their weight. The custom of encouraging young children to stand by
means of a chair or the support of the hand, while the bones are yet soft and pliable, is a
cruel one, and liable to produce permanent deformity. Nature will set the child on its feet
when the proper time comes.

4. Curvature of the Spine.--When the spine is bent, the packing between the vertebre becomes
compressed on one side into a wedge-like shape. After a time, it will lose its elasticity,
and the spine will become distorted. This often occurs in the case of students who bend forward
to bring their eyes nearer their books, instead of lifting their books nearer their eyes, or
who raise their right shoulder above their left when writing at a desk which is too high. Round
shoulders, small, weak lungs, and, frequently, diseases of the spine are the consequences.
An erect posture in reading or writing conduces not alone to beauty of form, but also to health
of body. We shall learn hereafter that the action of the muscles bears an important part in
preserving the symmetry of the spine. Muscular strength comes from bodily activity; hence,
one of the best preventives of spinal curvature is daily exercise in the open air.

5. Sprains are produced when the ligaments which bind the bones of a joint are strained, twisted,
or torn from their attachments. They are quite as serious as a broken bone, and require careful
attention lest they lead to a crippling for life. By premature use a sprained limb may be permanently
impaired. Hence, the joint should be kept quiet, even after the immediate pain is gone.

6. A Dislocation is the forcible displacement of a bone from its socket. It is, generally,
the result of a fall or a violent blow. The tissues of the joint are often ruptured, while
the contraction of the muscles prevents the easy return of the bone to its place. A dislocation
should be reduced as soon as possible after the injury, before inflammation supervenes.

PRACTICAL QUESTIONS.

1. Why does not a fall hurt a child as much as it does a grown person?

2. Should a young child ever be urged to stand or walk?

3. What is meant by "breaking one's neck"?

4. Should chairs or benches have straight backs?

5. Should a child's feet be allowed to dangle from a high seat?

6. Why can we tell whether a fowl is young by pressing on the point of the breastbone?

7. What is the use of the marrow in the bones?

8. Why is the shoulder so often put out of joint?

9. How can you tie a knot in a bone?

10. Why are high pillows injurious?

11. Is a stooping posture a healthful position?

12. Should a boot have a heel piece?

13. Why should one always sit and walk erect?

14. Why does a young child creep rather than walk?

15. What is the natural direction of the big toe?

16. What is the difference between a sprain and a fracture? A dislocation?

17. Does the general health of the system affect the strength of the bones?

18. Is living bone sensitive? Ans.--Scrape a bone, and its vessels bleed; cut or bore a bone,
and its granulations sprout up; break a bone, and it will heal; cut a piece away, and more
bone will readily be produced; hurt it in any way, and it inflames; burn it, and it dies. Take
any proof of sensibility but the mere feeling of pain, and it will answer to the proof.--BELL'S
Anatomy. Animal sensibility would be inconvenient; it is therefore not to be found except in
diseased bone, where it sometimes exhibits itself too acutely.--TODD'S Cyclopedia of Anatomy.

19. Is the constitution of bone the same in animals as in man? Ans.--The bones of quadrupeds
do not differ much from those of man. In general they are of a coarser texture, and in some,
as in those of the elephant's head, we find extensive air cells.--TODD'S Anatomy.

II.

THE MUSCLES.

HOLMES.

ANALYSIS OF THE MUSCLES.

|  1. The Use of the Muscles.
|  2. Contractility of the Muscles.
                       |  3. Arrangement of the Muscles.
| 1. THE USE, STRUCTURE  |  4. The two Kinds of Muscles.
|     AND ACTION OF THE  |  5. The Structure of the Muscles.
|         MUSCLES.       |  6. The Tendons for Fastening Muscles.
|                        |  7. The Muscles and Bones as Levers.
|                        |  8. The Effect of Big Joints.
|                        |  9. Action of the Muscles in Walking.
|                        |10. Action of the Muscles in Walking.
|
| 2. THE MUSCULAR SENSE.
|                         
| 3. HYGIENE OF THE      |  1. Necessity of Exercise.
|       MUSCLES.         |  2. Time for Exercise.
|                        | 3. Kinds of Exercise.
|
| 4. WONDERS OF THE MUSCLES.
|                         
|                        |  1. St. Vitus's Dance.
|                        |  2. Convulstions.
|                        |  3. Locked-jaw.
|5. DISEASES.           |  4. Gout.
|  5. Rheumatism.
|  6. Lumbago.
| 7. A Ganglion.

FIG. 14.

THE MUSCLES.

THE USE OF THE MUSCLES.--The skeleton is the image of death. Its unsightly appearance instinctively
repels us. We have seen, however, what uses it subserves in the body, and how the ugly-looking
bones abound in nice contrivances and ingenious workmanship. In life, the framework is hidden
by the flesh. This covering is a mass of muscles, which by their arrangement and their properties
not only give form and symmetry to the body, but also produce its varied movements.

In Fig. 14, we see the large exterior muscles. Beneath these are many others; while deeply
hidden within are tiny, delicate ones, too small to be seen with the naked eye. There are,
in all, about five hundred, each having its special use, and all working in exquisite harmony
and perfection.

CONTRACTILITY.--The peculiar property of the muscles is their power of contraction, whereby
they decrease in length and increase in thickness. [Footnote: The maximum force of this contraction
has been estimated as high as from eighty-five to one hundred and fourteen pounds per square
inch.] This may be caused by an effort of the will, by cold, by a sharp blow, etc. It does
not cease at death, but, in certain cold-blooded animals, a contraction of the muscles is often
noticed long after the head has been cut off.

ARRANGEMENT OF THE MUSCLES. [Footnote: "Could we behold properly the muscular fibers in operation,
nothing, as a mere mechanical exhibition, can be conceived more superb than the intricate and
combined actions that must take place during our most common movements. Look at a person running
or leaping, or watch the motions of the eye. How rapid, how delicate, how complicated, and
yet how accurate, are the motions required! Think of the endurance of such a muscle as the
heart, that can contract, with a force equal to sixty pounds, seventy-five times every minute,
for eighty years together, without being weary."]--The muscles are nearly all arranged in pairs,
each with its antagonist, so that, as they contract and expand alternately, the bone to which
they are attached is moved to and fro. (See p. 275.)

If you grasp the arm tightly with your hand just above the elbow joint, and bend the forearm,
you will feel the muscle on the inside (biceps, a, Fig. 14) swell, and become hard and prominent,
while the outside muscle (triceps, f) will be relaxed. Now straighten the arm, and the swelling
and hardness of the inside muscle will vanish, while the outside one will, in turn, become
rigid. So, also, if you clasp the arm just below the elbow, and then open and shut the fingers,
you can feel the alternate expanding and relaxing of the muscles on opposite sides of the arms.

If the muscles on one side of the face become palsied, those on the other side will draw the
mouth that way. Squinting is caused by one of the straight muscles of the eye (Fig. 17) contracting
more strongly than its antagonist.

KINDS OF MUSCLES.--There are two kinds of muscles, the voluntary, which are under the control
of our will, and the involuntary, which are not. Thus our limbs stiffen or relax as we please,
but the heart beats on by day and by night. The eyelid, however, is both voluntary and involuntary,
so that while we wink constantly without effort, we can, to a certain extent, restrain or control
the motion.

STRUCTURE OF THE MUSCLES.--If we take a piece of lean beef and wash out the red color, we can
easily detect the fine fibers of which the meat is composed. In boiling corned beef for the
table, the fibers often separate, owing to the dissolving of the delicate tissue which bound
them together. By means of the microscope, we find that these fibers are made up of minute
filaments (fibrils), and that each fibril is composed of a row of small cells arranged like
a string of beads. This gives the muscles a peculiar striped (striated) appearance. [Footnote:
The involuntary muscles consist generally of smooth, fibrous tissue, and form sheets or membranes
in the walls of hollow organs. By their contraction they change the size of cavities which
they inclose. Some functions, however, like the action of the heart, or the movements of deglutition
(swallowing), require the rapid, vigorous contraction, characteristic of the voluntary muscular
tissue--FLINT.] (See p. 276.) The cells are filled with a fluid or semifluid mass of living
(protoplasmic) matter.

FIG. 15.

The binding of so many threads into one bundle [Footnote: We shall learn hereafter how these
fibers are firmly tied together by a mesh of fine connective tissue which dissolves in boiling,
as just described] confers great strength, according to a mechanical principle that we see
exemplified in suspension bridges, where the weight is sustained, not by bars of iron, but
by small wires twisted into massive ropes.

FIG. 16.

THE TENDONS.--The ends of the muscles are generally attached to the bone by strong, flexible,
but inelastic tendons. [Footnote: The tendons may be easily seen in the leg of a turkey as
it comes on our table; so we may study Physiology while we pick the bones.] The muscular fibers
spring from the sides of the tendon, so that more of them can act upon the bone than if they
went directly to it. Besides, the small, insensible tendon can better bear the exposure of
passing over a joint, and be more easily lodged in some protecting groove, than the broad,
sensitive muscle. This mode of attachment gives to the limbs strength, and elegance of form.
Thus, for example, if the large muscles of the arm extended to the hand, they would make it
bulky and clumsy. The tendons, however, reach only to the wrist, whence fine cords pass to
the fingers (Fig. 16).

Here we notice two other admirable arrangements. 1. If the long tendons at the wrist on contracting
should rise, projections would be made and thus the beauty of the slender joint be marred.
To prevent this, a stout band or bracelet of ligament holds them down to their place. 2. In
order to allow the tendon which moves the last joint of the finger to pass through, the tendon
which moves the second joint divides at its attachment to the bone (Fig. 16). This is the most
economical mode of packing the muscles, as any other practicable arrangement would increase
the bulk of the slender finger.

FIG. 17.

Since the tendon can not always pull in the direction of the desired motion, some contrivance
is necessary to meet the want. The tendon (B) belonging to one of the muscles of the eye, for
example, passes through a ring of cartilage, and thus a rotary motion is secured.

FIG. 18.

THE LEVERS OF THE BODY. [Footnote: A lever is a stiff bar resting on a point of support, called
the fulcrum (F), and having connected with it a weight (W) to be lifted, and a power (P) to
move it. There are three classes of levers according to the arrangement of the power, weight,
and fulcrum. In the first class, the F is between the P and W; in the second, the W is between
the P and F; and in the third, the P is between the W and F (Fig. 18). A pump handle is an
example of the first; a lemon squeezer, of the second; and a pair of fire tongs, of the third.
See "Popular Physics," pp. 81-83, for a full description of this subject, and for many illustrations.]--In
producing the motions of the body, the muscles use the bones as levers. We see an illustration
of the first class of levers in the movements of the head. The back or front of the head is
the weight to be lifted, the backbone is the fulcrum on which the lever turns, and the muscles
at the back or front of the neck exert the power by which we toss or bow the head.

FIG. 19.

When we raise the body on tiptoe, we have an instance of the second class. Here, our toes resting
on the ground form the fulcrum the muscles of the calf (gas-troc-ne'-mi-us, j and so-le'-us,
Fig. 14), acting through the tendon of the heel, [Footnote: This is called the Tendon of Achilles
(k, Fig. 14) and is so named because, as the fable runs, when Achilles was an infant his mother
held him by the heel while she dipped him in the River Styx, whose water had the power of rendering
one invulnerable to any weapon. His heel, not being wet, was his weak point, to which Paris
directed the fatal arrow--"This tendon," says Mapother, "will bear one thousand pounds weight
before it will break." The horse is said to be "hamstrung," and is rendered useless, when the
Tendon of Achilles is cut. (see p. 284.)] are the power and the weight is borne by the ankle joint.

An illustration of the third class is found in lifting the hand from the elbow. The hand is
the weight, the elbow the fulcrum, and the power is applied by the biceps muscle at its attachment
to the radius (A, Fig. 19.) In this form of the lever there is great loss of force, because
it is applied at such a distance from the weight, but there is a gain of velocity, since the
hand moves so far by such a slight contraction of the muscle. The hand is required to perform
quick motions, and therefore this mode of attachment is desirable.

The nearer the power is applied to the resistance, the more easily the work is done. In the
lower jaw, for example, the jaw is the weight, the fulcrum is the hinge joint at the back,
and the muscles (temporal, d, and the mas'-se'ter, e, Fig. 14) on each side are the power.
[Footnote: We may feel the contraction of the masseter by placing our hand on the face when
we work the jaw, while the temporal can be readily detected by putting the fingers on the temple
while we are chewing. The tendon of the muscle (digastric)--one of those which open the jaw--passes
through a pulley (c, Fig. 14) somewhat like the one in the eye.] They act much closer to the
resistance than those in the hand, since here we desire force, and there, speed.

FIG. 20.

THE ENLARGEMENT OF THE BONES AT THE JOINTS not only affords greater surface for the attachment
of the muscles, as we have seen, but also enables them to work to better advantage. Thus, in
Fig. 20 it is evident that a muscle acting in the line f b would not bend the lower limb so
easily as if it were acting in the line f k, since in the former case its force would be about
all spent in drawing the bones more closely together, while in the latter it would pull more
nearly at a right angle. Thus the tendon f, by passing over the patella, which is itself pushed
out by the protuberance b of the thigh bone, pulls at a larger angle, [Footnote: The chief
use of the processes of the spine (Fig. 6) and other bones is, in the same way, to throw out
the point on which the power acts as far from the fulcrum as possible. The projections of the
ulna ("funny bone") behind the elbow, and that of the heel bone to which the Tendon of Achilles
is attached, are excellent illustrations (Fig. 1).] and so the leg is thrown forward with ease
in walking and with great force in kicking.

HOW WE STAND ERECT.--The joints play so easily, and the center of gravity in the body is so
far above the foot, that the skeleton can not of itself hold our bodies upright. Thus it requires
the action of many muscles to maintain this position. The head so rests upon the spine as to
tend to fall in front, but the muscles of the neck steady it in its place. [Footnote: In animals
the jaws are so heavy, and the place where the head and spine join is so far back, that there
can be no balance as there is in man. There are therefore large muscles in their necks. We
readily find that we have none if we get on "all fours" and try to hold up the head. On the
other hand, gorillas and apes can not stand erect like man, for the reason that their head,
trunk, legs, etc., are not balanced by muscles, so as to be in line with one another.] The
hips incline forward, but are held erect by the strong muscles of the back. The trunk is nicely
balanced on the head of the thigh bones. The great muscles of the thigh acting over the kneepan
tend to bend the body forward, but the muscles of the calf neutralize this action. The ankle,
the knee, and the hip lie in nearly the same line, and thus the weight of the body rests directly
on the keystone of the arch of the foot. So perfectly do these muscles act that we never think
of them until science calls our attention to the subject, and yet to acquire the necessary
skill to use them in our infancy needed patient lessons, much time, and many hard knocks.

FIG. 21.

