"If I ever get to be a Turk or anything like that," said Watts McHurdie, in October, two months
after the events recorded in the last chapter had occurred, as he sat astraddle of his bench,
sewing on a bridle, "I'm going to have one red-headed wife--but not much more'n one."

Colonel Culpepper dropped a "Why?" into the reflections of the poet.

Watts replied, "Oh, just to complete the set!"

The colonel did not answer and Watts chuckled: "I figure out that women are a study. You learn
this one and pat yourself on the breast-bone and say, 'Behold me, I'm on to women.' But you
ain't. Another comes along and you have to begin at the beginning and learn 'em all over. I
wonder if Solomon who had a thousand--more or less--got all his wisdom from them."

The colonel shook his head, and said sententiously, "Watts--they hain't a blame thing in it--not
a blame thing." The creaking of the treadle on Watt's bench slit the silence for a few moments,
and the colonel went on: "There can be educated fools about women, Watts McHurdie, just as
there are educated fools about books. There's nothing in your theory of a liberal education
in women. On the contrary, in all matters relating to and touching on affairs of the heart--beware
of the man with one wife."

McHurdie flashed his yellow-toothed smile upon his friend and replied, "Or less than one?"

"No, sir, just one," answered Colonel Culpepper. "A man with a raft of wives, first and last,
is like a fellow with good luck--the Lord never gives him anything else. And I may say in point
of fact, that the man with no wife is like a man with bad luck--the Lord never gives him anything
else, either!" The colonel slapped his right hand on his knee and exclaimed: "Watts McHurdie--what's
the matter with you, man? Don't you see Nellie's all ready and waitin'--just fairly honin',
and longin', I may say, for a home and a place to begin to live?"

McHurdie gave his treadle a jam and swayed forward over his work and answered, "Marry in haste--repent
at leisure."

But nevertheless that night Watts sat with Nellie Logan on the front porch of the Wards' house,
watching the rising harvest moon, while Mrs. Ward, inside, was singing to her baby. Nellie
Logan roomed with the Wards, and was bookkeeper in Dorman's store. It was nearly ten o'clock
and the man rose to go. "Well," he said, and hesitated a moment, "well, Nellie, I suppose you're
still waiting?" It was a question rather than an assertion.

The woman put her hands gently on the man's arms and sighed. "I just can't--not yet, Watts."

"Well, I thought maybe you'd changed your mind." He smiled as he continued, "You know they
say women do change sometimes."

She looked down at him sadly. "Yes, I know they do, but some way I don't."

There was a long pause while Watts screwed up his courage to say, "Still kind of thinking about
that preacher?"

The woman had no animation in her voice as she replied, "You know that by now--without asking."

The man sat down on the step, and she sat on a lower step. He was silent for a time. Then he
said, "Funny, ain't it?" She knew she was not to reply; for in a dozen years she had learned
the man's moods. In a minute, during which he looked into his hat absent-mindedly, he went
on: "As far as I've been able to make it out, love's a kind of a grand-right-and-left. I give
my right hand to you, and you give yours to the preacher, and he gives his to some other girl,
and she gives hers to some one else, like as not, who gives his to some one else, and the fiddle
and the horn and the piano and the bass fid screech and toot and howl, and away we go and sigh
under our breaths and break our hearts and swing our partners, and it's everybody dance." He
looked up at her and smiled at his fancy. For he was a poet and thought his remarks had some
artistic value.

She smiled back at him, and he leaned on his elbows and looked up at her as he said quietly:
"I'd like awful well, Nellie--awful well if you'd be my partner for the rest of this dance.
It's lonesome down there in the shop."

The woman patted his hand, and they sat quietly for a while and then she said, "Maybe sometime,
Watts, but not to-night."

He got up, and stood for a moment beside her on the walk. "Well," he said at length, "I suppose
I must be moving along--as the wandering Jew said." He smiled and their eyes met in the moonlight.
Watts dropped his instantly, and exclaimed, "You're a terrible handsome girl, Nellie--? did
you know it?" He repeated it and added, "And the Lord knows I love you, Nellie, and I've said
it a thousand times." He found her hand again, and said as he put on his hat, "Well, good-by,
Nellie--good-by--if you call that gone." His handclasp tightened and hers responded, and then
he dropped her hand and turned away.

The woman felt a desire to scream; she never knew how she choked her desire. But she rushed
after him and caught him tightly and sobbed, "Oh, Watts--Watts--Watts McHurdie--are you never
going to have any more snap in you than that?"

As he kicked away the earth from under him, Watts McHurdie saw the light in a window of the
Culpepper home, and when he came down to earth again five minutes later, he said, "Well, I
was just a-thinking how nice it would be to go over to Culpeppers' and kind of tell them the news!"

"They'll have news of their own pretty soon, I expect," replied Nellie. And to Watts' blank
look she replied: "The way that man Brownwell keeps shining around. He was there four nights
last week, and he's been there two this week already. I don't see what Molly Culpepper can
be thinking of."

So they deferred the visit to the Culpeppers', and in due time Watts McHurdie flitted down
Lincoln Avenue and felt himself wafted along Main Street as far in the clouds as a mortal may
be. And though it was nearly midnight, he brought out his accordion and sat playing it, beating
time with his left foot, and in his closed eyes seeing visions that by all the rights of this
game of life should come only to youth. And the guests in the Thayer House next morning asked,
"Well, for heaven's sake, who was that playing 'Silver Threads among the Gold' along there
about midnight?--he surely must know it by this time."

And Adrian Brownwell, sitting on the Culpepper veranda the next night but one, said: "Colonel,
your harness-maker friend is a musical artist. The other night when I came in I heard him twanging
his lute--'The Harp that once through Tara's Hall'; you know, Colonel."

And John Barclay closed his letter to Bob Hendricks: "Well, Bob, as I sit here with fifty letters
written this evening and ready to mail, and the blessed knowledge that we have 18,000 acres
of winter wheat all planted if not paid for, I can hear old Watts wheezing away on his accordion
in his shop down street. Poor old Watts, it's a pity that man hasn't the acquisitive faculty--he
could turn that talent into enough to keep him all his days. Poor old Watts!"

And Molly Culpepper, sitting in her bedroom chewing her penholder, finally wrote this: "Watts
McHurdie went sailing by the house to-night, coming home from the Wards', where he was making
his regular call on Nellie. You know what a mouse-like little walk he has, scratching along
the sidewalk so demurely; but to-night, after he passed our place I heard him actually break
into a hippety-hop, and as I was sitting on the veranda, I could hear him clicking clear down
to the new stone walk in front of the post-office." Oho, Molly Culpepper, you said "as I was
sitting on the veranda"; that is of course the truth, but not the whole truth; what you might
have said was "as we were sitting on the veranda," and "as we were talking of what I like"
and "what you like," and of "what I think" and "what you think," and as "I was listening to
war tales from a Southern soldier," and as "I was finding it on the whole rather a tiresome
business "; those things you might have written, Molly Culpepper, but you did not. And was
it a twinge or a prick or a sharp reproachful stab of your conscience that made you chew the
tip of your penholder into shreds and then madly write down this:--

"Bob, I don't know what is coming over me; but some way your letters seem so far away, and
it has been such a long time since I saw you, a whole lonesome year, and Bob dear, I am so
weak and so unworthy of you; I know it, oh, I know it. But I feel to-night that I must tell
you something right from my heart. It is this, dear: no matter what may happen, I want you
to know that I must always love you better than any one else in all the world. I seem so young
and foolish, and life is so long and the world is so big--so big and you are so far away. But,
Bob dear, my good true boy, don't forget this that I tell you to-night, that through all time
and all eternity the innermost part of my heart must always be yours. No matter what happens
to you and me in the course of life in the big world--you must never forget what I have written
here to-night."

And these words, for some strange reason, were burned on the man's soul; though she had written
him fonder ones, which passed from him with the years. The other words of the letter fell into
his eyes and were consumed there, so he does not remember that she also wrote that night: "I
have just been standing at my bedroom window, looking out over the town. It is quiet as the
graveyard, save for the murmur of the waters falling over the dam. And I cannot tell whether
it is fancy or whether it is real, but now and then there comes to me a faint hint of music,--it
sounds almost like Watts' accordion, but of course it cannot be at this unholy hour, and the
tune it makes me think of some way is 'Silver Threads among the Gold.' Isn't it odd that I
should hear that song, and yet not hear it, and have it running through my mind?"

And thus the town heard Watts McHurdie's song of triumph--the chortle that every male creature
of the human kind instinctively lets out when he has found favour in some woman's eyes, that
men have let out since Lemech sang of victory over the young man to Adah and Zillah! And in
all the town no one knew what it meant. For the accordion is not essentially an instrument
of passion. So the episode ended, and another day came in. And all that is left to mark for
this world that night of triumph--and that mark soon will bleach into oblivion--are the verses
entitled "Love at Sunset," of which Colonel Martin Culpepper, the poet's biographer, writes
in that chapter "At Hymen's Altar," referred to before: "This poem was written October 14,
1874, on the occasion of the poet's engagement to Miss Nellie Logan, who afterward became his
wife. By many competent critics, including no less a personage than Hon. John Barclay, president
of the National Provisions Company, this poem is deemed one of Mr. McHurdie's noblest achievements,
ranking second only to the great song that gave him national fame."

And it should be set down as an integral part of this narrative that John Barclay first read
the verses "Love at Sunset" in the Banner, two weeks after the night of their composition,
as he was finishing a campaign for the Fifth Parallel bonds. He picked up the Banner one evening
at twilight in a house in Pleasant township, and seeing Watts' initials under some verses,
read them at first mechanically, and then reread them with real zest, and so deeply did they
move the man from the mooring of the campaign that seeing an accordion on the table of the
best room in which he was waiting for supper, Barclay picked it up and fooled with it for half
an hour. It had been a dozen years since he had played an accordion, and the tunes that came
into his fingers were old tunes in vogue before the war, and he thought of himself as an old
man, though he was not yet twenty-five. But the old tunes brought back his boyhood from days
so remote that they seemed a long time past. And that night when he addressed the people in
the Pleasant Valley schoolhouse, he was half an hour getting on to the subject of the bonds;
he dwelt on the old days and spoke of the drouth of '60 and of the pioneers, and preached a
sermon, with their lives for texts, on the value of service without thought of money or hope
of other reward than the joy one has in consecrated work. Then he launched into the bond proposition,
and when the votes were counted Pleasant township indorsed Barclay's plan overwhelmingly. For
he was a young man of force, if not of eloquence. His evident sincerity made up for what he
lacked in oratorical charm, and he left an impression on those about him. So when the bonds
carried in Garrison County, the firm of Ward and Barclay was made local attorneys for the road,
and General Ward, smarting under the defeat of his party in the state, refused to accept the
railroad's business, and the partnership was dissolved.

"John," said Ward, as he put his hands on the young man's shoulders and looked at him a kindly
moment, before picking up his bushel basket of letters and papers, to move them into another
room and dissolve the partnership, "John," the elder man repeated, "if I could always maintain
such a faith in God as you maintain in money and its power, I could raise the dead."

Barclay blinked a second and replied, "Well, now, General, look here--what I don't understand
is how you expect to accomplish anything without money."

"I can't tell you, John--but some way I have faith that I can--can do more real work in this
world without bothering to get money, than I can by stopping to get money with which to do good."

"But if you had a million, you could do more good with it than you are doing now, couldn't
you?" asked Barclay.

"Yes, perhaps I could," admitted the general, as he eyed his miserable little pile of worldly
goods in the basket. "I suppose I could," he repeated meditatively.

"All right then, General," cut in Barclay. "I have no million, any more than you have; but
I'm going to get one--or two, maybe a dozen if I can, and I want to do good with it just as
much as you do. When I get it I'll show you." Barclay rose to lend the general a hand with
his basket. As they went awkwardly through the door with the load, the general stopping to
get a hold on the basket that would not twist his hand, he put the load down in the hall and
said: "But while you're getting that million, you're wasting God's ten talents, boy. Can't
you see that if you would use your force, your keenness, and persistence helping mankind in
some way--teaching, preaching, lending a hand to the poor, or helping to fight organized greed,
you would get more of God's work done than you will by squeezing the daylights out of your
fellow-men, making them hate money because of your avarice, and end by doling it out to them
in charity? That's my point, boy. That's why I don't want your railroad job."

They had dropped the basket in the bare room. The general had not so much as a chair or a desk.
He looked it over, and Barclay's eyes followed his. "What are you going to do for furniture?"
asked the younger man.

The general's thin face wrinkled into a smile. "Well," he replied, "I suppose that if a raven
can carry dry-goods, groceries, boots and shoes and drugs, paints and oils,--and certainly
the ravens have been bringing those things to the Wards for eight years now, and they're all
paid for,--the blessed bird can hump itself a little and bring some furniture, stoves, and
hardware."

Barclay limped into his room, while the general rubbed the dust off the windows. In a minute
John came stumbling in with a chair, and as he set it down he said, "Here comes the first raven,
General, and now if you'll kindly come and give the ravens a lift, they'll bring you a table."
And so the two men dragged the table into the office, and as they finished, Ward saw General
Hendricks coming up the stairs, and when the new room had been put in order,--a simple operation,
--General Ward hurried home to help Mrs. Ward get in their dahlia roots for the winter.

As they were digging in the garden, covering the ferns and wrapping the magnolia tree they
had lately acquired, and mulching the perennials, Mrs. Mary Barclay came toward them buffeting
the wind. She wore the long cowlish waterproof cloak and hood of the period--which she had
put on during the cloudy morning. Her tall strong figure did not bend in the wind, and the
schoolbooks she carried in her hand broke the straight line of her figure only to heighten
the priestess effect that her approaching presence produced.

"Well, children," she said, as she stood by the Wards at their work, "preparing your miracles?"
She looked at the bulbs and roots, and smiled. "How wonderful that all the beauty of the flowers
should be in those scrawny brown things; and," she added as she brushed away the brown hair
of her forties from her broad brow, "God probably thinks the same thing when He considers men
and their souls."

"And when the gardener puts us away for our winter's sleep?" Ward asked.

She turned her big frank blue eyes upon him as she took the words from his mouth, "'And the
last Adam was made a quickening spirit.'" Then she smiled sadly and said, "But it is the old
Adam himself that I seem to be wrestling with just now."

"In the children--at school?" asked the Wards, one after the other. She sighed and looked at
the little troopers straggling along the highway, and replied, "Yes, partly that, too," and
throwing her unnecessary hood back, turned her face into the wind and walked quickly away.
The Wards watched her as she strode down the hill, and finally as he bent to his work the general
asked:--

"Lucy, what does she think of John?"

Mrs. Ward, who was busy with a geranium, did not reply at once. But in a moment she rose and,
putting the plant with some others that were to go to the cellar, replied: "Oh, Phil--you know
a mother tries to hope against hope. She teaches her school every day, and keeps her mind busy.
But sometimes, when she stops in here after school or for lunch, she can't help dropping things
that let me know. I think her heart is breaking, Phil."

"Does she know about the wheat deal--I mean about the way he has made the farmers sign that
mortgage by cutting them off from borrowing money at the bank?"

"Not all of it--but I think she suspects," replied the wife.

"Did you know, dear," said the general, as he put the plants in the barrow to wheel them to
the cellar, "that I ran across something to-day--it may be all suspicion, and I don't want
to wrong John--but Mart Culpepper, God bless his big innocent heart, let something slip--well,
it was John, I think, who arranged for that loan of ten thousand from Brownwell to Mart. Though
why he didn't get it at the bank, I don't know. But John had some reason. Things look mighty
crooked there at the bank. I know this--Mart says that Brownwell lent him the money, and Mart
lent it to the bank for a month there in August, while he was holding the Chicago fellow in
the air."

Mrs. Ward sat down on the front steps of the porch, and exclaimed:--

"Well, Phil Ward--that's why the Culpeppers are so nice to Brownwell. Honestly, Phil, the last
time I was over Mrs. Culpepper nearly talked her head off to me and at Molly about what a fine
man he is, and told all about his family, and connections--he's related to the angel Gabriel
on his mother's side," she laughed, "and he's own cousin to St. Peter through the Brownwells."

"Oh, I guess they're innocent enough about it--they aren't mercenary," interrupted the general.

"Oh, no," replied Mrs Ward, "never in the world; but he's been good to them and he's of their
stock--and it's only natural."

"Yes, probably," replied the general, and asked, "Does she intend to marry him, do you think?"
Mrs. Ward was sorting some dahlia roots on the wheelbarrow and did not reply at once. "Do you
suppose they're engaged?" repeated the general.

"I often wonder," she returned, still at her task. Then she rose, holding a bulb in her hands,
and said: "It's a funny kind of relation. Her father and mother egging her on--and you know
that kind of a man; give him an inch and he'll take an ell. I wonder how far he has got." She
took the bulb to a pile near the rear of the house. "Those are the nice big yellow ones I'm
saving for Mrs. Barclay. But I'm sure of one thing, Molly has no notion of marrying Brownwell."
She continued: "Molly is still in love with Bob. She was over here last week and had a good
cry and told me so."

"Well, why doesn't she send this man about his business?" exclaimed the general.

Mrs. Ward sighed a little and replied, "Because--there is only one perfect person in all the
world, and that's you." She smiled at him and continued: "The rest of us, dear, are just flesh
and blood. So we make mistakes. Molly knows she should; she told me so the other day. And she
hates herself for not doing it. But, dearie--don't you see she thinks if she does, her father
and mother will lose the big house, and Bob will be involved in some kind of trouble? They
keep that before her all of the time. She says that John is always insisting that she be nice
to Brownwell. And you know the Culpeppers think Brownwell is--well, you know what they think."

They worked along for a while, and the general stopped and put his foot on his spade and cried:
"That boy--that boy--that boy! Isn't he selling his soul to the devil by bits? A little chunk
goes every day. And oh, my dear, my dear--" he broke out, "what profiteth a man if he gain
the whole world, and lose his own soul? Poor, poor John." He fell to his work again, sighing,
"Poor John, poor John!" So they talked on until the afternoon grew old.

And while they were talking, John and General Hendricks were in Barclay's office going over
matters, and seeing where they stood.

"So he says seventy thousand is too much for the company and me to owe?" said John, at the
end of half an hour's conference.

The general was drumming his fingers on the table nervously. "Yes--he says we've got to reduce
that in thirty days, or he'll close us up. Haven't you got any political influence, somewhere
in the East, John,--some of those stockholders,--that will hold this matter up till you can
harvest your crop next June?"

Barclay thought a moment, with his hand in his chin, and then slowly shook his head. A bank
inspector from Washington was several degrees higher in the work of politics than Barclay had gone.

"Let me see--" droned Barclay; "let me see. We can at least try scattering it out a little;
cut off, say, fifty thousand from me and the company and put it in the name of Lige--"

"He's on to Lige, we've got a hat full of Lige's notes in there," interrupted the general.

"All right, then, drop Lige and put in the colonel--he'll do that for me, and I'll see if I
can't get the colonel to get Brownwell to accommodate us. He's burning a good bit of the colonel's
stove wood these nights." Barclay smiled, and added, "And I'll just put Bob in for a few thousand."

"But what'll we do about those taxes?" asked the general, anxiously. "You know they've got
to be paid before the first of the year, and that's only six weeks off."

Barclay rose and paced the rug, and replied: "Yes, that's so. I was going to make another note
for them. But I suppose we oughtn't to do it even under cover; for if he found out you had
exceeded our loan right now--you know those fellows get ugly sometimes." The young man screwed
up his face and stood looking out of the window in silence for a long minute. Then he limped
over to his chair and sat down as one who has a plan. "Say now, General; you know Gabe Carnine's
coming in as county treasurer right after the first of the year, and we will make him help
us. You make your personal check for the nine thousand, and give it to the old cuss who's in
the county treasurer's office now, with the descriptions of the land, and get the tax receipts;
he'll bring the check back to the bank; you give him credit on his pass-book with the other
checks, and just hold your own check out in the drawer as cash. If my check was in there, the
inspector might drop in and see it, and cause a disturbance. When Gabe comes in, I'll make
him carry the matter over till next summer."

The transaction would cover only a few days, Barclay explained; and finally he had his way.
So the Larger Good was accomplished.

And later Adrian Brownwell came into the office to say:--

"Mr. Barclay, our friend, Colonel Culpepper, confessed to me after some transparent attempts
at subterfuge that my signing an accommodation note would help you, and do I understand this
also will help our young friend, Robert Hendricks, whom I have never seen, and enable him to
remain at his post during the winter?"

John Barclay took a square hard look at Brownwell, and got a smile and a faint little shrug
in return, whereupon, for the Larger Good, he replied "Yes," and for the Larger Good also,
perhaps, Adrian Brownwell answered:

"Well, I shall be delighted--just make my note for thirty days--only thirty days, you understand;
and then--well, of course if circumstances justify it, I'll renew it." Barclay laughed and
asked, "Well, Mr. Brownwell, as between friends may I ask how 'circumstances' are getting on?"

Brownwell shrugged his shoulders and smiled blandly as he answered: "Just so-so; I go twice
a week. And--" he waved his gloves airily and continued, "What is it the immortal Burns says:
'A man's a man, for a' that and a' that!' And I'm a man, John Barclay, and she's a woman. And
I go twice a week. You know women, sir, you know women--they're mostly all alike. So I think--"
he smirked complacently as he concluded--"I think what I need is time--only time."

"Luck to you," said Barclay. "I'll just make the note thirty days, as you say, and we can renew
it from time to time."

Then Brownwell put on his hat, twirled his cane effusively, and bade Barclay an elaborate adieu.

And ten days later, Molly Culpepper, loathing herself in her soul, and praying for the day
of deliverance when it should be all over, walked slowly from the post-office up the hill to
the house, the stately house, with its impressive pillars, reading this: "My darling Girl:
John has sent me some more mortgages to sell, and they have to be sold now. He says that father
has to have the money, and he and father have laid out work for me that will keep me here till
the middle of January. John says that the government inspector has been threatening us with
serious trouble in the bank lately, and we must have the money. He says the times have forced
us to do certain things that were technically wrong--though I guess they were criminally wrong
from what he says, and we must have this money to make things good. So I am compelled to stay
here and work. Father commands me to stay in a way that makes me fear that my coming home now
would mean our ruin. What a brick John is to stay there and shoulder it all. But, oh, darling,
darling, darling, I love you."

There was more, of course, and it was from a man's heart, and the strange and sad part of this
story is that when Molly Culpepper read the rest of the letter, her heart burned in shame,
and her shame was keener than her sorrow that her lover was not coming home.

So it happened naturally that Molly Culpepper went to the Christmas dance with Adrian Brownwell,
and when Jane Barclay, seeing the proprietary way the Alabaman hovered over Molly, and his
obvious jealousy of all the other men who were civil to her, asked John why he did not let
Bob come home for the holidays, as he had promised, for the Larger Good John told her the facts--that
there were some mortgages that had just come in, and they must be sold, so that the company
could reduce its indebtedness to the bank. But the facts are not always the truth, and in her
heart, which did not reason but only felt, Molly Culpepper, knowing that Brownwell and John
Barclay were in some kind of an affair together, feared the truth. And from her heart she wrote
to her lover questioning John's motives and pleading with him to return, and he, having merely
the facts, did not see the truth, and replied impatiently--so impatiently that it hurt, and
there was temper in her answer, and then for over a week no letter came, and for over a week
no reply went back to that. And so the Larger Good was doing its fine work in a wicked world.

CHAPTER XIII

The spring sun of 1875 that tanned John Barclay's face gave it a leathery masklike appearance
that the succeeding years never entirely wore off. For he lived in the open by day, riding
among his fields in three townships, watching the green carpet of March rise and begin to dimple
in April, and billow in May. And at night he worked in his office until the midnight cockcrow.
His back was bowed under a score of burdens. But his greatest burden was the bank; for it gave
him worry; and worry weighed upon him more than work. It was in April--early April when the
days were raw and cloudy, and the nights blustery and dreary--that Barclay sat in his office
one night after a hard day afield, his top-boots spattered with mud, his corduroy coat spread
out on a chair to dry, and his wet gray soft hat on his desk beside him. Jane was with her
parents in Minneola, and Barclay had come to his office without eating, from the stable where
he left his team. The yellow lights in the street below were reflected on the mists outside
his window, and the dripping eaves and cornices above him and about him seemed to mark the
time of some eery music too fine for his senses, and the footfalls in the street below, hurrying
footfalls of people shivering through the mists, seemed to be the drum beats of the weird symphony
that he could not hear.

Barclay drew a watch from, the pocket of his blue flannel shirt, and looked at it and stopped
writing and stood by the box-stove. He was looking at the door when he heard a thud on the
stairs. It was followed by a rattling sound, and in a moment Adrian Brownwell and his cane
were in the room. After the rather gorgeous cadenza of Brownwell's greeting had died away and
Barclay had his man in a chair, Barclay opened the stove door and let the glow of the flames
fight the shadows in the room.

"Well," said Barclay, turning toward his visitor brusquely, "why won't you renew that accommodation
paper for me again?"

The Papins and the Dulangprés shrugged their shoulders and waved their hands through Brownwell
rather nastily as he answered, "Circumstances, Mr. Barclay, circumstances!"

"You're not getting along fast enough, eh?" retorted Barclay.

"Yes--and no," returned Brownwell.

"What do you mean?" asked Barclay, half divining the truth.

"Well--it is after all our own affair--but since you are a friend I will say this: three times
a week--sometimes four times a week I go out to pay my respects. Until November I stayed until
nine, at Christmas we put on another hour; now it is ten-thirty. I am a man, John Barclay--as
you see. She--she is an angel. Very good. In that way, yes. But," the Papins and Dulangprés
came back to his face, and he shook his head. "But otherwise--no. There we stand still. She
will not say it."

Barclay squinted at the man who sat so complacently in the glow of the firelight, with his
cane between his toes and his gloves lightly fanning the air. "So I take it," said John, "that
you are like the Memorial Day parade, several hours passing a given point!"

"Exactly," smiled back Brownwell. He drew from his pocket a diamond ring. "She will look at
it; she will admire it. She will put it on a chain, but she will not wear it. And so I say,
why should I put my head in a noose here in your bank--what's the use? No, sir, John Barclay--no,
sir. I'm done, sir."

Barclay knew wheedling would not move Brownwell. He was of the mulish temperament. So Barclay
stretched out in his chair, locked his hands back of his head, and looked at the ceiling through
his eyelashes. After a silence he addressed the cobwebs above him: "Supposing the case. Would
a letter from me to you, setting forth the desperate need of this accommodation paper, not
especially for me, but for Colonel Culpepper's fortunes and the good name of the Hendricks
family--would that help your cause--a letter that you could show; a letter," Barclay said slowly,
"asking for this accommodation; a letter that you could show to--to--well, to the proper parties,
let us say, to-night; would--that kind of a letter help--" Barclay rose suddenly to an upright
position and went on: "Say, Mr. Man, that ought to pretty nearly fix it. Let's leave both matters
open, say for two hours, and then at ten o'clock or so--you come back here, and I'll have the
note for you to sign--if you care to. How's that?" he asked as he turned to his desk and reached
for a pen.

"Well," replied Brownwell, "I am willing to try."

And so Barclay sat writing for five minutes, while the glow of the flames died down, and the
shadows ceased fighting and were still.

"Read this over," said Barclay at length. "You will see," he added, as he handed Brownwell
the unfolded sheets, "that I have made it clear that if you refuse to sign our notes, General
Hendricks will be compelled to close the bank, and that the examination which will follow will
send him to prison and jeopardize Bob, who has signed a lot of improper notes there to cover
our transactions, and that in the crash Colonel Culpepper will lose all he has, including the
roof over his head--if you refuse to help us." ("However," snarled Barclay, at his conscience,
"I've only told the truth; for if you take your money and go and shut down on the colonel,
it would make him a pauper.")

With a flourishing crescendo finale Adrian Brownwell entered the dark stairway and went down
into the street. Barclay turned quickly to his work as if to avoid meditation. The scratch
of his pen and the murmur of the water on the roof grew louder and louder as the evening waxed
old. And out on the hill, out on Lincoln Avenue, the rain descended, and the floods came, and
the winds blew and beat upon that house--that stately house of a father's pride and--

At ten o'clock John Barclay heard a light footstep and a rattling cane upon the stair, and
Brownwell, a human whirligig of gay gestures, came tripping into the room. "A pen, a pen,"--he
cried, "my kingdom for a pen." He was tugging at his gloves as he spoke, and in the clatter
that he made, Barclay found the blank note and pushed it toward the table's edge to Brownwell,
who put his ornate copy-book signature upon it with a flourish.

When he had gone, Barclay wrote a note to Jane telling her of Molly's engagement to Brownwell,
and then he sat posting his books, and figuring up his accounts. It was after midnight when
he limped down the stairs, and the rain had ceased. But a biting wind like a cruel fate came
out of the north, and he hurried through the deserted street, under lowering clouds that scurried
madly across the stars. But John Barclay could not look up at the stars, he broke into a limping
run and head downward plunged into the gale. And never in all his life could he take a square
look at Molly Culpepper's diamond ring.

As the spring deepened Bob Hendricks felt upon him at his work the pressure of two distinct
troubles. One was his sweetheart's attitude toward him, and the other was the increasing weakness
of his father. Molly Culpepper's letters seemed to be growing sad; also they were failing in
their length and frequency--the young man felt that they were perfunctory. His father's letters
showed a physical breakdown. His handwriting was unsteady, and often he repeated himself in
successive letters. The sister wrote about her father's weakness, and seemed to think he was
working too hard. But the son suspected that it was worry rather than work, and that things
were not going right in the bank. He did not know that the Golden Belt Wheat Company had sapped
the money of the bank and had left it a husk, which at any time might crumble. The father knew
this, and after the first of the year every morning when he opened the bank he feared that
day would be the last day of its career.

And so it fell out that "those that look out of the windows" were darkened, and General Hendricks
rose up with the voice of the bird and was "afraid of that which was high" and terrors were
in the way. So on his head, the white blossom of the almond tree trembled; and one noon in
March the stage bore to this broken, shaking old man a letter from Kansas City that ran the
sword of fear into his heart and almost stopped it forever. It ran:--

"Dear General: I have just learned from talking with a banker here that an inspector is headed
our way. He probably will arrive the day after this reaches you. Something must be done about
that tax check of yours. The inspector should not find it in the drawer again. Once was all
right, but you must get it out now. Put it in the form of a note. Make it Carnine's note. He
is good for twice that. Don't bother him with it, but make it out for ninety days, and by that
time we can make another turn. But that note must be in there. Your check won't do any longer.
The inspector has been gossiping about us up here--and about that check of yours. For God's
sake, don't hesitate, but do this thing quick."

The letter was not signed, but it came in Barclay's envelope, and was addressed by Barclay's hand.

The general fumbled with the pad of blank notes before him for a long time. He read and reread
Barclay's letter. Then he put away the pad and tore the letter into bits and started for the
front door. But a terror seized him, and he walked behind the counter and put his palsied hand
into the box where he kept cancelled checks, and picked out one of Gabriel Carnine's checks.
He folded it up, and started for the door again, but turned weakly at the threshold, and walked
to the back room of the bank.

When it was done, and had been worked through the books, General Hendricks, quaking with shame
and fear, sat shivering before his desk with jaws agape and the forged name gashed into his
soul. And "the strong men" bowed themselves as he shuffled home in the twilight. The next day
when the inspector came, "all the daughters of music were brought low" and the feeble, bent,
stricken man piped and wheezed and stammered his confused answers to the young man's questions,
and stood paralyzed with unspeakable horror while the inspector glanced at the Carnine note
and asked some casual question about it. When the bank closed that night, General Hendricks
tried to write to his son and tell him the truth, but he sat weeping before his desk and could
not put down the words he longed to write. Bob Hendricks found that tear-stained letter half
finished in the desk when he came home, and he kept it locked up for years. And when he discovered
that the date on the letter and the date on the forged note were the same, the son knew the
meaning of the tears. But it was all for the Larger Good, and so John Barclay won another game
with Destiny.

But the silver cord was straining, and morning after morning the old pitcher went to the fountain,
to be battered and battered and battered. His books, which he kept himself, grew spotted and
dirty, and day by day in the early spring the general dreaded lest some depositor would come
into the bank and call for a sum in cash so large that it would take the cash supply below
the legal limit, and that an inspector would suddenly appear again and discover the deficiency.
Except Barclay the other directors knew nothing of the situation. They signed whatever reports
the general or Barclay put before them; there came a time in April when any three of a dozen
depositors could have taken every penny out of the bank. When the general was unusually low
in spirits, Barclay sent Colonel Culpepper around to the bank with his anthem about times being
better when the spring really opened, and for an hour the general was cheerful, but when the
colonel went, the general always saw the axe hanging over his head. And then one morning late
in April--one bright Sunday morning--the wheel of the cistern was broken, and they found the
old man cold in his bed with his face to the wall.

John Barclay was on a horse riding to the railroad--four hours away, before the town was up
for late Sunday morning breakfast. That afternoon he went into Topeka on a special engine,
and told a Topeka banker who dealt with the bank of Sycamore Ridge the news of the general's
death, and asked for five thousand dollars in silver to allay a possible run. At midnight he
drove into the Ridge with the money, and the bank opened in the morning at seven o'clock instead
of nine, so that a crowd might not gather, and depositors who came, saw back of Barclay a great
heap of silver dollars, flanked by all the gold and greenbacks in the vault, and when a man
asked for his money he got it in silver, and when Oscar Fernald presented a check for over
three thousand dollars, Barclay paid it out in silver, and in the spirit of fun, Sheriff Jake
Dolan, who heard of the counting and recounting of the money while it was going on, brought
in a wheelbarrow and Oscar wheeled his money to his hotel, while every loafer in town followed
him. At noon Fernald came back with his money, and Barclay refused to take it. The town knew
that also. Barclay did not step out of the teller's cage during the whole day, but Lige Bemis
was his herald, and through him Barclay had Dolan refuse to give Fernald protection for his
money unless Fernald would consent to be locked up in jail with it. In ten minutes the town
knew that story, and at three o'clock Barclay posted a notice saying the bank would remain
open until nine o'clock that night, to accommodate any depositors who desired their money,
but that it would be closed for three days following until after the funeral of the president
of the bank.

The next day he sat in the back room of the bank and received privately nearly all the money
that had been taken out Monday, and several thousand dollars besides that came through fear
that Fernald's cash would attract robbers from the rough country to the West who might loot
the town. To urge in that class of depositors, Barclay asked Sheriff Dolan to detail a guard
of fifty deputies about the bank day and night, and the day following the cash began coming
in with mildew on it, and Adrian Brownwell appeared that night with a thousand dollars of old
bank-notes, issued in the fifties, that smelled of the earth. Thursday John limped up and down
the street inviting first one business man and then another into the bank to help him count
cash and straighten out his balance. And each of a dozen men believed for years that he was
the man who first found the balance in the books of the Exchange National Bank of Sycamore
Ridge, after John Barclay had got them tangled. And when Barclay was a great and powerful man
in the world, these men, being interviewed by reporters about the personality of Barclay, took
pride in telling this story of his blundering. But when Bob Hendricks reached Sycamore Ridge
Thursday noon, confidence in the safety of the bank was founded upon a rock.

So when the town closed its stores that afternoon and took the body of the general, its first
distinguished citizen to die, out upon the Hill, and laid it to rest in the wild prairie grass,
John Barclay and Jane, his wife, rode in the carriage with the mourners, and John stood by
his friend through the long service, and when the body was lowered into the grave, the most
remote thought in all the world from John's mind was that he was responsible for the old man's
death.

Bob Hendricks saw Molly Culpepper for the first time in twenty months, standing by her father
with those who gathered about the general's grave, and as soon as he could leave the friends
who came home with him and his sister, he hurried to the Culpeppers'. As he left his home,
he could see Molly sitting on the veranda behind one of the pillars of great pride. She moved
down the steps toward the gate to meet him. It was dusk,--deep dusk,--but he knew her figure
and was thrilled with joy. They walked silently from the gate toward the veranda, and the youth's
soul was moved too deeply for words. So deeply indeed was his being stirred, that he did not
notice in his eagerness to bring their souls together how she was holding him away from her heart.

The yellow roses were blooming, and the pink roses were in bud. They strayed idly to the side
of the house farthest from the street, and there they found the lilacs, heavy with blooms;
they were higher than the girl's head,--a little thicket of them,--and behind the thicket was
a rustic seat made of the grape-vines. He stepped toward the chair, pulling her by the hand,
and she followed. He tried to gather her into his arms, but she slid away from him and cried,
"No--no, Bob--no!"

"Why--why--why! what's wrong?" gasped the youth.

The girl sank on the seat and covered her face with her hands. He touched her shoulder and
her hair with his finger-tips, and she shivered away from him. "Oh, Bob--Bob, Bob!--" she cried
in agony, still looking at the grass before her.

The young man looked at her in perplexity. "Why, dear--why--why, darling--why, Molly," he stammered,
"why--why--"

She rose and faced him. She gripped herself, and he could feel the unnatural firmness in her
voice as she spoke.

"Bob, I am not the little girl you left." He put out his arms, but she shrank back among the
lilacs; their perfume was in her face, and she was impressed with that odd feeling one sometimes
has of having had some glimpse of it all before. She knew that she would say, "I am not worthy--not
worthy any more--Bob, do you understand?"

And when he had stepped to ward her again with piteous pleading face,--a face that she had
never seen before, yet seemed always to have known,--she felt that numb sense of familiarity
with it all, and it did not pain her as she feared it would when he cried, "Oh--God, Molly--nothing
you ever could do would make you unworthy of me--Molly, Molly, what is it?" The anguish in
his face flashed back from some indefinite past to her, and then the illusion was gone, and
the drama was all new. He caught her, but she fought herself away.

"Don't--don't!" she cried; "you have no right--now." She dropped into the seat, while he stood
over her with horror on his face. She answered the question of his eyes, rocking her body as
she spoke, "Bob--do you understand now?" He shook his head, and she went on, "We aren't engaged--not
any more, Bob--not any more--never!" He started to speak, but she said: "I'm going to marry
Mr. Brownwell. Oh, Bob--Bob, I told you I was unworthy--now do you understand?"

The man turned his face starward a second, and then dropped his head. "Oh," he groaned, and
then sat down beside her at the other end of the bench. He folded his hands on his knees, and
they sat silent for a time, and then he asked in a dead voice, "You know I love you--still,
don't you, Molly?"

She answered, "Yes, that's what makes it hard."

"And do you love me?" he cried with eagerness.

She sat for a minute without replying and then answered, "I am a woman now, Bob--a grown woman,
and some way things are different."

They sat without speaking; then he drew a deep breath and said, "Well, I suppose I ought to
go." His head rested on his hand which was supported by an arm of the chair. He did not offer
to rise.

She rose and went to him, kneeling before him. She put her hands upon his shoulders, and he
put them aside, and she felt him shudder. She moaned, and looked up at him. Her face was close
to his, but he did not come closer. He stared at her dumbly, and kept shaking his head as if
asking some mute question too deep for words. Then he put out his hand and took hers. He put
it against his cheek and held it in both his own. She did not take her eyes from his face,
but his eyes began to wander.

"I will never see you again, Bob--I mean like this." She paused.

There was no life in his hands, and hers slipped away unrestrained. "How sweet the lilacs smell
to-night," he said as he drew in a deep breath. He leaned back that he might breathe more freely,
and added as he sighed, "I shall smell them through eternity--Molly." Then he rose and broke
off a spray. He helped her rise and said, "Well--so this is the way of it." His handsome fair
face was white in the moonlight, and she saw that his hair was thinning at the temples, and
the strange flash of familiarity with it all came again as she inhaled the fragrance of the lilacs.

She trembled with some chill of inner grief, and cried vehemently, "Oh, Bob--my boy--my boy--say
you hate me--for God's love, say you hate me." She came so close to him that she touched him,
then she crumpled against the side of the seat in a storm of tears, but he looked at her steadily
and shook his head.

"Come on, Molly. It's too cool for you out here," he said, and took her hand and walked with
her to the steps. She was blinded by her weeping, and he helped here to the veranda, but he
stopped on a lower step where his face was on a level with hers, and dropping her hand, he
said, "Well, good night, Molly--good night--" and as he half turned from her, he said in the
same voice, "Good-by."

He went quickly down the walk--a tall stalwart figure, and he carried his hat in his hand,
and wiped his forehead as he went. At the gate he looked back and saw her standing where he
had left her; he could still hear the pitiful sobs, but he made no sign to her, and she heard
him walking away under the elms into the night. When his steps had ceased she ran on tiptoe,
holding her breath to silence her sobs, through the hall, up the stairs of the silent home
to her room, and locked the door. When she could not pray, she lay sobbing and groaning through
a long night.

CHAPTER XIV

The next morning John Barclay gave Robert Hendricks the keys to the bank. Barclay watched the
town until nine o'clock and satisfied himself that there would be no run on the bank, for during
the early part of the morning young Hendricks was holding a reception in his office; then Barclay
saddled a horse and started for the wheat fields. After the first hours of the morning had
passed, and the townspeople had gone from the bank, Robert Hendricks began to burrow into the
books. He felt instinctively that he would find there the solution of the puzzle that perplexed
him. For he was sure Molly Culpepper had not jilted him wantonly. He worked all the long spring
afternoon and into the night, and when he could not sleep he went back to the bank at midnight,
following some clew that rose out of his under-consciousness and beckoned him to an answer
to his question.

The next morning found him at his counter, still worrying his books as a ferret worries a rat.
They were beginning to mean something to him, and he saw that the bank was a worm-eaten shell.
When he discovered that Brownwell's notes were not made for bona fide loans, but that they
were made to cover Barclay's overdrafts, he began to find the truth, and then when he found
that Colonel Culpepper had lent the money back to the bank that he borrowed from Brownwell,--also
to save John's overdrafts,--Bob Hendricks' soul burned pale with rage. He found that John had
borrowed far beyond the limit of his credit at the bank to buy the company's stock, and that
he had used Culpepper and Brownwell to protect his account when it needed protection. Hendricks
went about his work silently, serving the bank's customers, and greeting his neighbours pleasantly,
but his heart was full of a lust to do some bodily hurt to John Barclay. When John came back,
he sauntered into the bank so airily that Hendricks could not put the hate into his hands that
was in his breast. John was full of a plan to organize a commission company, buy all of the
wheat grown by the Golden Belt Wheat Company and make a profit off the wheat company for the
commission company. He had bargained with the traffic officers of the railroad company to accept
stock in the commission company in return for rate concessions on the Corn Belt Railroad, which
was within a few months' building distance of Sycamore Ridge.

As John unfolded his scheme, Bob eyed his partner almost without a word. A devil back in some
recess of his soul was thirsting for a quarrel. But Bob's sane consciousness would not unleash
the devil, so he replied:--

"No--you go ahead with your commission company, and I'll stick to the wheat proposition. That
and the bank will keep me going."

The afternoon was late, and a great heap of papers of the bank and the company lay before them
that needed their time. Bob brushed his devil back and went to work. But he kept looking at
Barclay's neck and imagining his fingers closing upon it. When the twilight was falling, Barclay
brought the portmanteau containing the notes into the back room and turning to the "C's" pulled
out a note for nine thousand dollars signed by Gabriel Carnine, who was then county treasurer.
Barclay put it on the table before Hendricks and looked steadily at him a minute before saying,
"Bob--see that note?" And when the young man answered, the other returned: "We had to do that,
and several other things, this spring to tide us over. I didn't bother you with it--but we
just had to do it--or close up, and go to pieces with the wheat scheme."

Hendricks picked up the note, and after examining it a moment, asked quickly, "John, is that
Gabe's signature?"

"No--I couldn't get Gabe to sign it--and we had to have it to make his account balance."

"And you forged his note,--and are carrying it?" cried Hendricks, rising.

"Oh, sit down, Bob--we did it here amongst hands. It wasn't exactly my affair, the way it got
squared around."

Hendricks took the note to the window. He was flushed, and the devil got into his eyes when
he came back, and he cried, "And you made father do it!"

Barclay smiled pacifically, and limped over to Hendricks and took the note from him and put
it back into the portmanteau. Then Barclay replied: "No, Bob, I didn't make your father--the
times made your father. It was that or confess to Gabe Carnine, who swelled up on taking his
job, that we hadn't paid the taxes on the company's land, though our check had been passed
for it. When it came in, we gave the county treasurer credit on his daily bank-book for the
nine thousand, but we held out the check. Do you see?"

"Yes, that far," replied Hendricks.

"Well, it's a long story after that, but when I found Gabe wouldn't accommodate us for six
months by giving us his note to carry as cash until we could pay it,--the inspectors wouldn't
take mine or your father's,--and our books had to show the amount of gross cash that the treasurer
deposited before Gabe came in, your father thought it unwise to keep holding checks that had
already been paid in the drawer as cash for that nine thousand, so we--well, one day he just
put this note in, and worked it through the books."

Hendricks had his devil well in hand as he stared at Barclay, and then said: "John--this is
mighty dangerous business. Are we carrying his account nine thousand short on our books, and
making his pass-book balance?"

"That's it, only--"

"But suppose some one finds it out?" asked Hendricks.

"Oh, now, Bob, keep your shirt on. I fixed that. You know they keep two separate accounts,--a
general maintenance account and a bond account, and Gabe has been letting us keep the paid-off
bonds in the vault and look after their cancelling, and while he was sick, I was in charge
of the treasurer's office and had the run of the bank, and I squared our account at the Eastern
fiscal agency and in the bond account in the treasurer's office, and fixed up the short maintenance
account all with nine thousand dollars' worth of old bonds that were kicking around the vault
uncancelled, and now the job is hermetically sealed so far as the treasurer and the bank are
concerned."

"So we can't pay it back if we want to? Is that the way, John?" asked Hendricks, his fingers
twitching as he leaned forward in his chair.

"Ah, don't get so tragic about it. Some day when Gabe has calmed down, and wants a renomination,
I'll take him in the back room and show him the error that we've both made, and we'll just
quietly put back the money and give him the laugh." There was a pause, and Barclay tilted his
chair back and grinned. "It's all right, Bob--we were where we had to do it; the books balance
to a 'T' now--and we'll square it with Gabe sometime."

"But if we can't--if Gabe won't be--be--well, be reasonable? What then?" asked Hendricks.

"Oh, well," returned John, "I've thought of that too. And you'll find that when, the county
treasury changes hands in '79, you'll have to look after the bond account and the treasurer's
books and make a little entry to satisfy the bonds when they really fall due; then--I'll show
you about it when we're over at the court-house. But if we can't get the money back with Gabe
or the next man, the time will come when we can."

And Bob Hendricks looked at the natty little man before him and sighed, and began working for
the Larger Good also. And afterwards as the months flew by the Golden Belt Wheat Company paid
the interest on the forged note, and the bank paid the Golden Belt Wheat Company interest on
a daily ledger balance of nine thousand, and all went happily. The Larger Good accepted the
sacrifices of truth, and went on its felicitous way.

After Barclay left the bank that night, Hendricks found still more of the truth. And the devil
in the background of his soul came out and glared through the young man's sleepless eyes as
he appeared in Barclay's office in the morning and said, before he had found a chair, "John,
what's your idea about those farmers' mortgages? Are you going to let them pay them, or are
you going to make them sell under that option that you've got in them?"

"Why," asked Barclay, "what's it to us? Haven't the courts decided that that kind of an option
is a sale--clear through to the United States Supreme Court?"

"Well, what are you going to do about it?" persisted Hendricks.

Barclay squinted sidewise at his partner for a few seconds and said, "Well, it's no affair
of ours; we've sold all the mortgages anyway."

Hendricks wagged his head impatiently and exclaimed, "Quit your dodging and give me a square
answer--what have you got up your sleeve about those options?"

Barclay rose, limped to the window, and looked out as he answered: "Well, I've always supposed
we'd fix it up some way to buy back those mortgages and then take the land we want for ourselves--for
you and me personally--and give the poor land back to the farmers if they pay the money we
lent them."

"Well," returned Hendricks, "just count me out on that. Whatever I make in this deal, and you
seem to think our share will be plenty, goes to getting those farmers back their land. So far
as I'm concerned that money we paid them was rent, not a loan!"

Barclay dropped his hands in astonishment and gaped at Hendricks.

"Well, my dear Miss Nancy," he exclaimed, "when did you get religion?"

The two men glared at each other a moment, and Hendricks grappled his devil and drew a long
breath and replied: "Well, you heard what I said." And then he added: "I'm pretty keen for
money, John, but when it comes to skinning a lot of neighbours out of land that you and every
one says is going to raise thirty dollars' worth of wheat to the acre this year alone, and
only paying them ten dollars an acre for the title to the land itself--" He did not finish.
After a pause he added: "Why, they'll mob you, man. I've got to live with those farmers." Barclay
sneered at Hendricks without speaking and Hendricks stepped over to him and drew back his open
hand as he said angrily, "Stop it--stop it, I say." Then he exclaimed: "I'm not what you'd
call nasty nice, John--but I'm no robber. I can't take the rent of that land for nothing, raise
a thirty-dollar crop on every acre of it, and make them pay me ten dollars an acre to get back
the poor land and steal the good land, on a hocus-pocus option."

"'I do not use the nasty weed, said little Robert Reed,'" replied Barclay, with a leer on his
face. Then, he added: "I've held your miserable little note-shaving shop up by main strength
for a year, by main strength and awkwardness, and now you come home with your mouth all fixed
for prisms and prunes, and want to get on a higher plane. You try that," continued Barclay,
and his eyes blazed at Hendricks, "and you'll come down town some morning minus a bank."

Then the devil in Bob Hendricks was freed for an exultant moment, as his hands came out of
his pockets and clamped down on Barclay's shoulders, and shook him till his teeth rattled.

"Not with me, John, not with me," he cried, and he felt his fingers clutching for the thin
neck so near them, and then suddenly his hands went back to his pockets. "Now, another thing--you
got Brownwell to lend the colonel that money?" Hendricks was himself.

Barclay nodded.

"And you got Brownwell to sign a lot of accommodation paper there at the bank?"

"Yes--to cover our own overdrafts," retorted Barclay. "It was either that or bust--and I preferred
not to bust. What's more, if we had gone under there at one stage of the game when Brownwell
helped us, we could have been indicted for obtaining money under false pretences--you and I,
I mean. I'm perfectly willing to stick my head inside the jail and look around," Barclay grinned,
"but I'll be damned if I'm going clear inside for any man--not when I can find a way to back
out." Barclay tried to laugh, but Hendricks would not let him.

"And so you put up Molly to bail you out." Barclay did not answer and Hendricks went on bitterly:
"Oh, you're a friend, John Barclay, you're a loyal friend. You've sold me out like a dog, John--like
a dog!"

Barclay, sitting at his desk, playing with a paper-weight, snarled back: "Why don't you get
in the market yourself, if you think I've sold you out? Why don't you lend the old man some money?"

"And take it from the bank you've just got done robbing of everything but the wall-paper?"
Hendricks retorted.

"No," cried Barclay, in a loud voice. "Come off your high horse and take the profits we'll
make on our wheat, pay off old Brownwell and marry her."

"And let the bank bust and the farmers slide?" asked Hendricks, "and buy back Molly with stolen
money? Is that your idea?"

"Well," Barclay snapped, "you have your choice, so if you think more of the bank and your old
hayseeds than you do of Molly, don't come blubbering around me about selling her."

"John," sighed Hendricks, after a long wrestle--a final contest with his demon, "I've gone
all over that. And I have decided that if I've got to swindle seventy-five or a hundred farmers--most
of them old soldiers on their homesteads--out of their little all, and cheat five hundred depositors
out of their money to get Molly, she and I wouldn't be very happy when we thought of the price,
and we'd always think of the price." His demon was limp in the background of his soul as he
added: "Here are some papers I brought over. Let's get back to the settlement--fix them up
and bring them over to the bank this morning, will you?" And laying a package carefully on
the table, Hendricks turned and went quickly out of the room.

After Hendricks left the office that May morning, Barclay sat whistling the air of the song
of the "Evening Star," looking blankly at a picture of Wagner hanging beside a picture of Jay
Gould. The tune seemed to restore his soul. When he had been whistling softly for five minutes
or so, the idea flashed across his mind that flour was the one thing used in America more than
any other food product and that if a man had his money invested in the manufacture and sale
of flour, he would have an investment that would weather any panic. The idea overcame him,
and he shut his eyes and his ears and gripped his chair and whistled and saw visions. Molly
Culpepper came into the room, and paused a moment on the threshold as one afraid to interrupt
a sleeper. She saw the dapper little man kicking the chair rounds with his dangling heels,
his flushed face reflecting a brain full of blood, his eyes shut, his head thrown far back,
so that his Adam's apple stuck up irrelevantly, and she knew only by the persistence of the
soft low whistle that he was awake, clutching at some day-dream. When she cleared her throat,
he was startled and stared at her foolishly for a moment, with the vision still upon him. His
wits came to him, and he rose to greet her.

"Well--well--why--hello, Molly--I was just figuring on a matter," he said as he put her in
a chair, and then he added, "Well--I wasn't expecting you."

Even before she could speak his lips were puckering to pick up the tune he had dropped. She
answered, "No, John, I wanted to see you--so I just came up."

"Oh, that's all right, Molly--what is it?" he returned.

"Well--" answered the young woman, listlessly, "it's about; father. You know he's badly in
debt, and some way--of course he sells lots of land and all, but you know father, John, and
he just doesn't--oh, he just keeps in debt."

Barclay had been lapsing back into his revery as she spoke, but he pulled himself out and replied:
"Oh, yes, Molly--I know about father all right. Can't you make him straighten things out?"

"Well, no. John, that's just it. His money comes in so irregularly, this month a lot and next
month nothing, that it just spoils him. When he gets a lot he spends it like a prince," she
smiled sadly and interjected: "You know he is forever giving away--and then while he's waiting
he gets in debt again. Then we are as poor as the people for whom he passes subscription papers,
and that's just what I wanted to see you about."

Barclay took his eyes off Jay Gould's picture long enough to look at the brown-eyed girl with
an oval face and a tip of a chin that just fitted the hollow of a man's hand; there were the
smallest brown freckles in the world across the bridge of her nose, and under her eyes there
was the faintest suggestion of dark shading. Youth was in her lips and cheeks, and when she
smiled there were dimples. But John's eyes went back to Jay Gould's solemn black whiskers and
he said from his abstraction, "Well, Molly, I wish I could help you."

"Well, I knew you would, John, some way; and oh, John, I do need help so badly." She paused
a moment and gazed at him piteously and repeated, "So badly." But his eyes did not move from
the sacred whiskers of his joss. The vision was flaming in his brain, and with his lips parted,
he whistled "The Evening Star" to conjure it back and keep it with him. The girl went on:--

"About that money Mr. Brownwell loaned father, John." She flushed and cried, "Can't you find
some way for father to borrow the money and pay Mr. Brownwell--now that your wheat is turning
out so well?"

The young man pulled himself out of his day-dream and said, "Well--why--you see, Molly--I--Well
now, to be entirely frank with you, Molly, I'm going into a business that will take all of
my credit--and every cent of my money."

He paused a moment, and the girl asked, "Tell me, John, will the wheat straighten things up
at the bank?"

"Well, it might if Bob had any sense--but he's got a fool notion of considering a straight
mortgage that those farmers gave on their land as rent, and isn't going to make them redeem
their land,--his share of it, I mean,--and if he doesn't do that, he'll not have a cent, and
he couldn't lend your father any money." Barclay was anxious to get back to his "Evening Star"
and his dream of power, so he asked, "Why, Molly, what's wrong?"

"John," she began, "this is a miserable business to talk about; but it is business, I guess."
She stopped and looked at him piteously. "Well, John, father's debt to Mr. Brownwell--the ten-thousand-dollar
loan on the house--will be due in August." The young man assented. And after a moment she sighed,
"That is why I'm to be married in August." She stood a moment looking out of the window and
cried, "Oh, John, John, isn't there some way out--isn't there, John?"

Barclay rose and limped to her and answered harshly: "Not so long as Bob is a fool--no, Molly.
If he wants to go mooning around releasing those farmers from their mortgages--there's no way
out. But I wouldn't care for a man who didn't think more of me than he did of a lot of old
clodhoppers."

The girl looked at the hard-faced youth a moment in silence, and turned without a word and
left the room. Barclay floated away on his "Evening Star" and spun out his dream as a spider
spins his web, and when Hendricks came into the office for a mislaid paper half an hour later,
Barclay still was figuring up profits, and making his web stronger. As Hendricks, having finished
his errand, was about to go, Barclay stopped him.

"Bob, Molly's been up here. As nearly as I can get at it, Brownwell has promised to renew the
colonel's mortgage in August. If he and Molly aren't married by then--no more renewals from
him. Don't be a fool, Bob; let your sod-busters go hang. If you don't get their farms, some
one else will!"

Hendricks looked at his partner a minute steadily, grunted, and strode out of the room. And
the incident slipped from John Barclay's mind, and the web of the spider grew stronger and
stronger in his brain, but it cast a shadow that was to reach across his life.

After Hendricks went from his office that morning, Barclay bounded back, like a boy at play,
to the vision of controlling the flour market. He saw the waving wheat of Garrison County coming
to the railroad, and he knew that his railroad rates were so low that the miller on the Sycamore
could not ship a pound of flour profitably, and Barclay's mind gradually comprehended that
through railroad rates he controlled the mill, and could buy it at his leisure, upon his own
terms. Then the whole scheme unfolded itself before his closed eyes as he sat with his head
tilted back and pillowed in his hands. If his railroad concession made it possible for him
to underbid the miller at the Ridge, why could he not get other railroad concessions and underbid
every miller along the line of the Corn Belt road, by dividing profits with the railroad officials?
As he spun out his vision, he could hear the droning voices of General Ward and Colonel Culpepper
in the next room; but he did not heed them.

They were discussing the things of the day,--indeed, the things of a fortnight before, to be
precise,--the reception given by the Culpeppers to celebrate their silver wedding anniversary.
The windows were open, and Barclay could hear the men's voices, and he knew vaguely that they
were talking of Lige Bemis. For Barclay had tactfully asked the colonel as a favour to invite
Mr. and Mrs. Bemis to the silver wedding reception. So the Bemises came. Mrs. Bemis, who was
rather stout, even for a woman in her early forties, wore black satin and jet ornaments, including
black jet ear bobs of tremendous size. And Watts McHurdie was so touched by the way ten years
under a roof had tamed the woman whom he had known of old as "Happy Hallie," that he wrote
a poem for the Banner about the return of the "Prodigal Daughter," which may be found in Garrison
County scrap-books of that period. As for Mr. Bemis, he went slinking about the outskirts of
the crowd, showing his teeth considerably, and making it obvious that he was there.

So as John Barclay rode his "Evening Star" to glory, in the next room General Ward turned to
the colonel, who stood puffing in the doorway of the general's law-office. "Martin, did John
Barclay make you invite that woman to your house--that Bemis woman?"

The colonel got his breath slowly after climbing the stair, and he did not reply at once. But
he smiled, and stood with his arms akimbo a few seconds before he spoke. "Well now, General--since
you ask it, I may as well confess it pointedly--I am ashamed to say he did!"

Ward motioned the colonel to a seat and asked impatiently, "Ashamed?"

"Well," responded Culpepper, as he put his feet in the window ledge, "she's as good as I am--if
you come down to that! Why shouldn't I, who pretend to be a gentleman,--a Virginia gentleman,
I may say, sir,--why shouldn't I be ashamed, disgraced, sir, disgraced in point of fact, that
I had to be forced to invite any person in all God's beautiful world to my home?"

Ward looked at the colonel coldly a moment and then blurted out: "Ah, shucks, sir--stuff and
nonsense! You know what she was before the war--Happy Hally! My gracious, Martin, how could you?"

Martin Culpepper brought his chair down with a bang and turned squarely to Ward. "General,
the war's over now. I knew Happy Hally--and I knew the Red Legs she trained with. And we're
making senators and governors and state officers and indeed, I may say, prominent citizens
out of them. Why not give Hally her show? You damn cold-nosed Yankee Brahmins--you have Faith
and you have Hope, but you have no more Charity than a sausage-grinder." The colonel rose,
and cried with some asperity, "General, if you'd preach about the poor less, and pray with
'em more, you'd know more about your fellow-men, sir!"

Perhaps this conversation should not have been set down here; for it has no direct relation
to the movement of this narrative. The narrative at this point should be hurrying along to
tell how John Barclay and Bob Hendricks cleared up a small fortune on their wheat deal, and
how that autumn Barclay bought the mill at Sycamore Ridge by squeezing its owner out, and then
set about to establish four branches of the Golden Belt Wheat Company's elevator service along
the line of the new railroad, and how he controlled the wheat output of three counties the
next year through his enterprise. These facts carry John Barclay forward toward his life's
goal. And while these two middle-aged gentlemen--the general and the colonel--were in the next
room wrangling over the youthful love affairs of a middle-aged lady, a great dream was shaping
in Barclay's head, and he did not heed them. He was dreaming of controlling the wheat market
of the Golden Belt Railroad, through railroad-rate privileges, and his fancy was feeling its
way into flour, and comprehending what might be done with wheat products.

It was a crude dream, but he was aflame with it, and yet--John Barclay, aged twenty-five, was
a young man with curly hair and flattered himself that he could sing. And there was always
in him that side of his nature, so the reader must know that when Nellie Logan came to his
office that bright summer morning and found him wrapped in his day-dream of power, she addressed
herself not to the Thane of Wheat who should be King hereafter, but to the baritone singer
in the Congregational choir, and the wheat king scampered back to the dream world when John
replied to Nellie's question.

"So it's your wedding, is it, Nellie--your wedding," he repeated. "Well, where does Watts come
in?" And then, before she answered, he went on, "You bet I'll sing at your wedding, and what's
more, I'll bring along my limping Congregational foot, and I'll dance at your wedding."

"Well, I just knew you would," said the young woman.

"So old Watts thought I wouldn't, did he?" asked Barclay. "The old skeezicks--Well, well! Nellie,
you tell him that the fellow who was with Watts when he was shot ten miles from Springfield
isn't going to desert him when he gets a mortal wound in the heart." Then Barclay added: "You
get the music and take it down to Jane, and tell her to teach me, and I'll be there. Jane says
you're going to put old Watts through all the gaits."

He leaned back in his swivel chair and smiled at his visitor. He had a slow drawl that he used
in teasing, and one who heard that voice and afterward heard the harsh bark of the man in driving
a bargain or browbeating an adversary would have to look twice to realize that the same man
was talking. A little over an hour before in that very room he had looked at Bob Hendricks
from under wrinkled brows with the vertical line creased between his eyes and snarled, "Well,
then, if you think she's going to marry that fellow because I got him to lend the colonel some
money, why don't you go and lend the colonel some more money and get her back?"

But there was not a muscle twitching in his face as he talked to Nellie Logan, not a break
in his voice, not a ruffle of a hair, to tell her that John Barclay had broken with the friend
of his boyhood and the partner of his youth, and that he had closed and bolted the Door of
Hope on Molly Culpepper. He drawled on: "Jane was saying that you were going to have Bob and
Molly for best man and bridesmaid. Ought you to do that? You know they--"

He did not finish the sentence, but she replied: "Oh, yes, I know about that. I told Watts
he ought to have Mr. Brownwell; but he's as stubborn as a mule about just that one thing. Everything
else--the flower girls and the procession and the ring service and all--he's so nice about.
And you know I just had to have Molly."

John slapped the arms of his chair and laughed. "As old Daddy Mason says, 'Now hain't that
just like a woman!' Well, Nellie, it's your wedding, and a woman is generally not married more
than once, so it's all right. Go it while you're young."

And so he teased her out of the room, and when Sycamore Ridge packed itself into the Congregational
Church one June night, to witness the most gorgeous church wedding the town ever had seen,
John opened the ceremonies by singing the "Voice that breathed o'er Eden" most effectively,
and Sycamore Ridge in its best clothes, rather stuffed and uncomfortable thereby, was in that
unnatural attitude toward the world where it thought John Barclay's voice, a throaty baritone,
with much affectation in the middle register, a tendency to flat in the upper register, and
thick fuzz below "C," was beautiful, though John often remembered that night with unalloyed
shame. He saw himself as he stood there, primped to kill, like a prize bull at a fair, bellowing
out a mawkish sentiment in a stilted voice, and he wondered how the Ridge ever managed to endure
him afterwards.

But this is a charitable world, and his temperament was such that he did not realize that no
one paid much attention to him, after the real ceremony started. When the bride and the bridesmaid
came down the aisle, Nellie Logan radiant in the gown which every woman in the church knew
had come from Chicago and had been bought of the drummer at wholesale cost, saving the bride
over fifteen dollars on the regular price--what did the guests care for a dapper little man
singing a hymn tune through his nose, even if he was the richest young man in town? And when
Molly Culpepper--dear little Molly Culpepper--came after the bride, blushing through her powder,
and looking straight at the floor for fear her eyes would wander after her heart and wondering
if the people knew--it was of no consequence that John Barclay's voice frazzled on "F"; for
if the town wished to notice a man at that wedding, there was Watts McHurdie in a paper collar,
with a white embroidered bow tie and the first starched shirt the town had ever seen him wear,
badly out of step with the procession, while the best man dragged him like an unwilling victim
to the altar; and of course there was the best man,--and a handsome best man as men go,--fair-skinned,
light-haired, blue-eyed, with a good glow on his immobile face and rather sad eyes that, being
in a man's head, went boldly where they chose and where all the women in the town could see
them go. So there were other things to remember that night besides John Barclay's singing and
the festive figure he cut at that wedding: there was the wedding supper at the Wards', and
the wedding reception at the Culpeppers', and after it all the dance in Culpepper Hall. And
all the town remembers these things, but only two people remember a moment after the reception
when every one was hurrying away to the dance and when the bridesmaid--such a sweet, pretty
little bridesmaid--was standing alone in a deserted room with a tall groomsman--just for a
moment--just for a moment before Adrian Brownwell came up bustling and bristling, but long
enough to say, "Bob--did you take my gloves there in the carriage as we were coming home from
the church?" and long enough for him to answer, "Why, did you lose them?" and then to get a
good square look into her eyes. It was only a few seconds in the long evening--less than a
second that their eyes met; but it was enough to be remembered forever; though why--you say!
It was all so commonplace; there was nothing in it that you would have thought worth remembering
for a moment. "Bob, did you take my gloves?" "Why, did you lose them?" and then a glance of
the eyes. Surely there are more romantic words than these. But when a man and a woman go in
for collecting antiques in their dialogues, Heaven only knows what old rubbish you will find
in their attics, scoured off and rebuilt and polished with secret tears until the old stuff
glows like embers.

And that is why, when the music was silent in Culpepper Hall, and the tall young man walked
slowly home alone, as he clicked his own gate behind him, he brought from his pocket two little
white gloves,--just two ordinary white gloves,--and held them to his lips and lifted his arms
in despair once and let them drop as he stood before his doorstep. And that is why a girl,
a little girl with the weariest face in the town, looked out of her bedroom window that night
and whispered over and over to herself the name she dared not speak. And all this was going
on while the town was turning over in its bed, listening to the most tumultuous charivari that
Sycamore Ridge has ever known.

Night after night that summer faithful Jake Dolan walked the streets of Sycamore Ridge with
Bob Hendricks. By day they lived apart, but at night the young man often would look up the
elder, and they would walk and walk together, but never once did Hendricks mention Molly's
name nor refer to her in any way; yet Jake Dolan knew why they walked abroad. How did he know?
How do we know so many things in this world that are neither seen nor heard? And the Irish--they
have the drop of blood that defies mathematics; the Irish are the only people in the world
whom kind Providence permits to add two and two together to make six. "You say 'tis four,"
said Dolan, one night, as he and Hendricks stood on the bridge listening to the roar from the
dam. "I say 'tis six. There is this and there is that and you say they make the other. Not
at all; they make something else entirely different. You take your two and your two and make
your four and try your four on the world, and it works--yes, it works up to a point; but there
is something left over, something unexplained; you don't know what. I do. It's the other two.
Therefore I say to you, Mr. Robert Hendricks, that two and two make six, because God loves
the Irish, and for no other reason on earth."

So much for the dreams of Molly, the memories of Bob, and the vagaries of Mr. Dolan. They were
as light as air. But in John Barclay's life a vision was rising--a vision that was real, palpable,
and vital; a vision of wealth and power,--and as the days and the months passed, the shadow
of that vision grew big and black and real in a score of lives.

CHAPTER XV

As June burned itself gloriously into July, Robert Hendricks no longer counted the weeks until
Molly Culpepper should be married, but counted the days. So three weeks and two days, from
the first of July, became three weeks, then two weeks and six days, and then one week and six
days, and then six days, five days, four days, three days; and then it became seventy-two hours.
And the three threshing machines of the Golden Belt Wheat Company were pouring their ceaseless
stream into the company's great bins. The railroad was only five miles away, and Hendricks
was sitting in his office in the bank going over and over his estimates of the year's crop
which was still lying in the field,--save the crop from less than two thousand acres that was
harvested and threshed. From that he judged that there would be enough to redeem his share
of the farmers' mortgages, which in Hendricks' mind could be nothing but rent for the land,
and to pay his share of the bank's fraudulent loans to the company--and leave nothing more.

The fact that John expected to buy back the mortgages from Eastern investors who had bought
them, and then squeeze the farmers out of their land by the option to buy hidden in the contract,
did not move Hendricks. He saw his duty in the matter, but as the golden flood rose higher
in the bins, and as hour after hour rolled by bringing him nearer and nearer to the time when
Molly Culpepper should marry Adrian Brownwell, a temptation came to him, and he dallied with
it as he sat figuring at his desk. The bank was a husk. Its real resources had been sold, and
a lot of bogus notes--accommodation paper, they called it--had taken the place of real assets.
For Hendricks to borrow money of any other institution as the officer of the Exchange National
Bank of Sycamore Ridge would be a crime. And yet he knew that ten thousand dollars would save
her, and his brain was wrought with a madness. And so he sat figuring while the hours slipped
by, trying to discount his future income from the wheat to justify himself in taking the money
from the bank's vaults. His figures did not encourage him. They showed him that to be honest
with the farmers he might hope for no profit from that year's crop, and with two years of failure
behind him, he knew that to discount the next year's crop would be nothing less than stealing.
Then, strong and compelling, came the temptation to let the farmers fight it out with the Eastern
investors. The temptation rocked the foundations of his soul. He knew it was wrong; he knew
he would be a thief, if he did it, no matter what the law might say, no matter what the courts
might adjudge. To Barclay what was legal was right, and what the courts had passed upon--that
was legal. But Hendricks sat with his pencil in his hand, going over and over his figures,
trying to silence his conscience.

It was a hot afternoon that he sat there, and idly through his mind went the computation that
he had but sixty-six more hours of hope, and as he looked at the clock he added, "and thirty-eight
minutes and twenty-seven seconds," when Martin Culpepper came ambling into the back room of
the bank.

"Robert," began the colonel, with his eyes on the floor and his hands deep in his trousers
pockets, "I've just been talking to John." The colonel rubbed his neck absent-mindedly and
went on, "John's a Yankee, Robert--the blue stripe on his belly is fast blue, sir; it won't
fade, change colour, or crock, in point of fact, not a damned bit, sir, not till the devil
covers it with a griddle stripe, sir, I may say." The colonel slouched into a chair and looked
into Hendricks' face with a troubled expression and continued, "That John certainly is Yankee,
Robert, and he's too many for me. Yes, sir, certainly he's got me up in the air, sir--up in
the air, and as I may say a mile west, on that wheat deal." Hendricks leaned forward unconsciously,
and the colonel dropped both hands to his knees and leaned toward Hendricks. "Robert Hendricks,"
asked the colonel, as he bored his deep black eyes into the younger man, "did you know about
that option in the wheat land mortgage? Answer me, sir!"

"Not at the time, Colonel," returned Hendricks, and began, "but I--"

"Well, neither did I. And I got half of those mortgages myself. Lige and I did it all, sir.
And Lige knew--Lige, he says it's legal, but I say it's just common stealing." Hendricks moistened
his lips and sat with mute face gazing at the colonel. The colonel went on, "And now the farmers
have found it out, and the devil's to pay, sir, with no pitch hot!"

Hendricks cleared his throat and began, "Well, Colonel--I don't know; of course I--"

The elder man rose to his full height and glared at the younger, and cried, "Ah, Robert, Robert,
fire in the mountain, snakes in the grass--you do know--you do know, sir. You know that to
hold up the farmers of this county in the midst of what amounted to a famine, not to let them
borrow a dollar in the county except on a gouging mortgage, and then to slip into that mortgage
a blind option to sell for ten dollars an acre land that is worth three times that, is stealing,
and so does John Barclay know that, and, worst of all, so does Martin Culpepper know that,
and the farmers are finding it out--my neighbours and comrades that I helped to swindle, sir--to
rob, I may say--they know what it is."

The colonel's voice was rising, and he stood glaring and puffing before the young man, shaking
his head furiously. Young Hendricks was engaged in swallowing his Adam's apple and blinking
unsteadily, and just as he started to reply, the colonel, who had caught his temper by the
horn and was shaking it into submission, cried: "Yes, sir, Robert, that's what I said, sir;
those were my very words in point of fact. And," he began as he sat down and sighed, "what
galls me most of all, Robert, is that John laughs at me. Here you've been gagging and gulping
and sputtering, boy, to keep down your conscience, and so I know--yes, Robert, I'm dead sure,
I may say, that you're all right; but John giggles--giggles, sir, snickers in point of fact,
as though he had done something smart in getting me to go out among my old soldier friends
and rob 'em of their homesteads. He doesn't care for my good name any more than for his own."

Hendricks drummed with his fingers on the desk before him. His blue eyes looked into nothing,
and his mind's eye saw the house of cards he had been dallying with totter and fall. He drew
a deep breath before he looked up at the colonel, and said rather sadly: "Well, Colonel, you're
right. I told John the day after I came home that I wouldn't stand it." He drummed with his
fingers for a moment before continuing, "I suppose you got about half of those contracts, didn't
you?"

The colonel pulled from his pocket a crumpled paper and handed it to Hendricks, "Here they
are, sir--and every one from a soldier or a soldier's widow, every one a homestead, sir."

Hendricks walked to the window, and stood looking out with his eyes cast down. He fumbled his
Masonic watch-charm a moment, and then glancing at it, caught the colonel's eye and smiled
as he said: "I'm on the square, Colonel, in this matter. I'll protect you." He went to the
elder man and put his hands on his shoulder as he said: "You go to your comrades and tell them
this, Colonel, that between now and snowfall every man will have his land clear. But," he added,
picking up the list of the colonel's contracts, "don't mention me in the matter." He paused
and continued, "It might hurt the bank. Just tell them you'll see that it's taken care of."

The colonel put out his hand as he rose. When their hands met he was saying: "Blood tells,
Robert Hendricks, blood tells. Wasn't your sainted father a Democrat, boy, a Democrat like
me, sir,--a Union Democrat in point of fact?" The colonel squeezed the younger man's hand as
he cried: "A Union Democrat, sir, who could shoot at his party, sir, but never could bring
himself to vote against it--not once, sir--not once. And Robert Hendricks, when I see you acting
as you've acted just now, sir, this very minute in point of fact, I may say, sir, that you're
almost honest enough to be a Democrat, sir--like your sainted father." The colonel held the
young man's hand affectionately for a time and then dropped it, sighing, "Ah, sir--if it wasn't
for your damned Yankee free schools and your damned Yankee surroundings, what a Democrat you
would have made, Robert--what a grand Democrat!" The colonel waved his silver tobacco box proudly
and made for the door and left Hendricks sitting at his desk, drumming on the board with one
hand, and resting his head in the other, looking longingly into the abyss from which he had
escaped; for the lure of the danger still fluttered his soul.

Strength had come to him in that hour to resist the temptation. But the temptation still was
there. For he was a young man, giving up for an intangible thing called justice the dearest
thing in his life. He had opened the door of his life's despair and had walked in, as much
like a man as he could, but he kept looking back with a heavy heart, hungering with his whole
body and most of his soul for all that he had renounced. And so, staring at the light of other
days, and across the shadow of what might have been, he let ten long minutes tick past toward
the inevitable hour, and then he rose and put his hand to the plough for the long furrow.

They are all off the stage now, as Bob Hendricks is standing in the front door of the bank
that August night with his watch in his hand reckoning the minutes--some four thousand three
hundred of them--until Molly Culpepper will pass from him forever, and as the stage is almost
deserted, we may peep under the rear curtain for a minute. Observe Sycamore Ridge in the eighties,
with Hendricks its moving spirit, controlling its politics, dominating its business,--for John
Barclay's business has moved to the City and Bob Hendricks has become the material embodiment
of the town. And the town there on the canvas is a busy town of twenty thousand people. Just
back of that scene we find a convention spread on the canvas, a political convention wherein
Robert Hendricks is struggling for good government and clean politics. Observe him a taciturn,
forceful man, with his hands on the machinery of his party in the state, shaping its destinies,
directing its politics, seeking no office, keeping himself in the background, desiring only
to serve, and not to advertise his power. So more and more power comes to him, greater and
wider opportunities to serve his state. His business grows and multiplies, and he becomes a
strong man among men; always reserved, always cautious, a man whose self-poise makes people
take him for a cynic, though his heart is full of hope and of the joy of life to the very last.
Let us lift up one more rag--one more painted rag in the scenery of his life--and see him a
reformer of national fame; see him with an unflinching hand pull the wires that control a great
national policy of his party, and watch in that scene wherein he names a president--even against
the power and the money and the organization of rich men, brutally rich men like John Barclay.
Hendricks' thin hair is growing gray in this scene, and his skin is no longer fresh and white;
but his eyes have a twinkle in them, and the ardour of his soul glows in a glad countenance.
And as he sits alone in his room long after midnight while the bands are roaring and the processions
cheering and the great city is ablaze with excitement, Robert Hendricks, turning fifty, winds
his watch--the same watch that he holds in his hand here while we pause to peek under the canvas
behind the scenes--and wonders if Molly will be glad that his side won. He has not seen her
for months, nor talked with her for years, and yet as he sits there winding his watch after
his great strategic victory in national politics, he hopes fondly that perhaps Molly will know
that he played a clean hand and won a fair game.

Now let us crawl out from under this rubbish of the coming years, back into Sycamore Ridge.
And while the street is deserted, let us turn the film of events forward, letting them flit
by unnoticed past the wedding of Molly Culpepper and Adrian Brownwell until we come to the
August day when the railroad came to Sycamore Ridge.

Jacob Dolan, sheriff in and for Garrison County for four years, beginning with 1873, remembered
the summer of 1875 to his dying day, as the year when he tore his blue soldier coat, and for
twenty-five years, after the fight in which the coat was torn, Dolan never put it on for a
funeral or a state occasion, that he did not smooth out the seam that Nellie Logan McHurdie
made in mending the rent place, and recall the exigencies of the public service which made
it necessary to tear one's clothes to keep the peace.

"You may state to the court in your own way," said the judge at the trial of the sheriff for
assault, "just how the difficulty began."

"Well, sir," answered Dolan, "there was a bit of a celebration in town, on August 30, it being
the day the railroad came in, and in honour of the occasion I put on my regimentals, and along
about--say eleven o'clock--as the crowd began to thicken up around the bank corner, and in
front of the hardware store, I was walking along, kind of shoving the way clear for the ladies
to pass, when some one behind me says, 'General Hendricks was an old thief, and his son is
no better,' and I turned around and clapt my eye on this gentleman here. I'd never seen him
before in my whole life, but I knew by the bold free gay way he had with his tongue that he
was from Minneola and bent on trouble. 'Keep still,' says I, calm and dignified like, bent
on preserving the peace, as was my duty. 'I'll not,' says he. 'You will,' says I. 'Tis a free
country,' says he, coming toward me with one shoulder wiggling. 'But not for cowards who malign
the dead,' says I. 'Well, they were thieves,' says he, shaking his fist and getting more and
more into contempt of court every minute. 'You're a liar,' says I, maintaining the dignity
of my office. 'And you're a thief too,' says he. 'A what?' says I. 'A thief,' says he. 'Whack,'
says I, with my stick across his head, upholding the dignity of the court. 'Biff,' says he,
with a brick that was handy, more and more contemptuous. 'You dirty, mangy cur,' says I, grabbing
him by the ears and pounding his head against the wall as I spoke, hoping to get some idea
of the dignity of the court into his rebellious head. 'Whoop,' says he, and, as he tore my
coat, 'Yip yip,' says I, and may it please the court it was shortly thereafter that the real
trouble started, though I misremember just how at this time." And as there were three "E" Company
men on the jury, they acquitted Dolan and advised the court to assess a fine on the prosecuting
witness for contributory negligence in resisting an officer.

But the coat--the blue coat with brass buttons, with the straps of a lieutenant on the shoulders,
was mended and even in that same summer did active service many times. For that was a busy
summer for Sycamore Ridge, and holidays came faster than the months. When the supreme court
decided the Minneola suit to enjoin the building of the court-house, in favour of Syeamore
Ridge, there was another holiday, and men drew John Barclay around in the new hack with the
top down, and there were fireworks in the evening. For it was John Barclay's lawsuit. Lige
Bemis, who was county attorney, did not try to claim credit for the work, and when the last
acre of the great wheat crop of the Golden Belt Wheat Company was cut, and threshed, there
was a big celebration and the elevator of the Golden Belt Wheat Company was formally turned
over to the company, and John Barclay was the hero of another happy occasion. For the elevator,
standing on a switch by the railroad track, was his "proposition." And every one in town knew
that the railroad company had made a rate of wheat to Barclay and his associates, so low that
Minneola could not compete, even if she hauled her wheat to another station on the road, so
Minneola teams lined up at Barclay's elevator. That autumn Minneola, without a railroad, without
a chance for the county-seat, and without a grain market, began to fag, and during the last
of September, the Mason House came moving out over the hill road, from Minneola to Sycamore
Ridge, surrounded by a great crowd of enthusiastic men from the Ridge. Every evening, of the
two weeks in which the house was moving, people drove out from Sycamore Ridge to see it, and
Lycurgus Mason, sitting on the back step smoking,--he could not get into the habit of using
the front steps even in his day of triumph,--was a person of considerable importance.

Money was plentiful, and the Exchange National Bank grew with the country. The procession of
covered wagons, that had straggled and failed the year before, began to close ranks in the
spring; and in place of "Buck" and "Ball" and "Star," and "Bright" and "Tom" and "Jerry," who
used to groan under the yoke, horses were hitched to the wagons, and stock followed after them,
and thus Garrison County was settled, and Sycamore Ridge grew from three to five thousand people
in three years. In the spring of '75 the Banner began to publish a daily edition, and Editor
Brownwell went up and down the railroad on his pass, attending conventions and making himself
a familiar figure in the state. Times were so prosperous that the people lost interest in the
crime of '73, and General Ward had to stay in his law-office, but he joined the teetotalers
and helped to organize the Good Templars and the state temperance society. Colonel Culpepper
in his prosperity took to fancy vests, cut extremely low, and the Culpepper women became the
nucleus of organized polite society in the Ridge.

The money that John Barclay made in that first wheat transaction was the foundation of his
fortune. For that money gave him two important things needed in making money--confidence in
himself, and prestige. He was twenty-five years old then, and he had demonstrated to his community
thoroughly that he had courage, that he was crafty, and that he went to his end and got results,
without stopping for overnice scruples of honour. Sycamore Ridge and Garrison County, excepting
a few men like General Ward, who were known as cranks, regarded John as the smartest man in
the county--smarter even than Lige Bemis. And the whole community, including some of the injured
farmers themselves, considered Hendricks a sissy for his scruples, and thought Barclay a shrewd
financier for claiming all that he could get. Barclay got hold of eight thousand acres of wheat
land, in adjacent tracts, and went ahead with his business. In August he ploughed the ground
for another crop. Also he persuaded his mother to let him build a new home on the site of the
Barclay home by the Sycamore tree under the ridge, and when it was done that winter Mr. and
Mrs. John Barclay moved out of their rooms at the Thayer House and lived with John's mother.
The house they built cost ten thousand dollars when it was finished, and it may still be seen
as part of the great rambling structure that he built in the nineties. John put five hundred
dollars' worth of books into the new house--sets of books, which strangely enough he forced
himself to wade through laboriously, and thus he cultivated a habit of reading that always
remained with him. In those days the books with cracked backs in his library were Emerson,
Browning, and Tennyson. And after a hard day's work he would come home to his poets and his
piano. He thought out the whole plan of the Barclay Economy Car Door Strip about midnight,
sitting in his night clothes at the piano after reading "Abt Vogler," and the central idea
for the address on the "Practical Transcendentalist," which he delivered at the opening of
the state university the next year, came to him one winter night after he had tried to compose
a clanging march as an air to fit Emerson's "The Sphinx." After almost a quarter of a century
that address became the first chapter of Barclay's famous book, which created such ribaldry
in the newspapers, entitled "The Obligations of Wealth."

It was in 1879 that Barclay patented his Economy Door Strip, and put it in his grain cars.
It saved loss of grain in shipping, and Barclay, being on terms of business intimacy with the
railroad men, sold the Economy Strip to the railroads to use on every car of grain or flour
he shipped. And Lycurgus Mason, taken from the kitchen of the Mason House, hired a room over
McHurdie's harness shop, and made the strips there. His first day in his new shop is impressed
upon his memory by an incident that is the seed of a considerable part of this story.

He always remembers that day, because, when he got to the Thayer House, he found John there
in the buggy waiting for him, and a crowd of men sitting around smoking cigars. In the seat
by Barclay was a cigar-box, and Lycurgus cut in, before John could speak, with, "Well, which
is it?"

And John returned, "A girl--get in; Mother Mason needs you."

Lycurgus fumbled under the box lid for a cigar as he got into the buggy, and repeated: "Mother
needs me, eh? Well, now, ain't that just like a woman, taking a man from his work in the middle
of the day? What are you going to name her?"

"How do you like Jeanette?" asked Barclay, as he turned the horse. "You know we can't have
two Janes," he explained.

"Well," asked the elder man, tentatively, "how does mother stand on Jeanette?"

"Mother Mason," answered Barclay, "is against it."

"All right," replied Lycurgus, "I vote aye. What does she want?" he asked.

"Susan B.," returned Barclay.

"Susan B. Anthony?" queried the new grandfather.

"Exactly," replied the new father.

The two rode down the street in silence; as they turned into the Barclay driveway Lycurgus
chuckled, "Well--well--Susan B. Wants to put breeches on that child before she gets her eyes
open." Then he turned on Barclay with a broad grin of fellowship, as he pinched the young man's
leg and laughed, "Say--John--honest, ain't that just like a woman?"

And so Jeanette Thatcher Barclay came into this world, and what with her Grandmother Barclay
uncovering her to look at the Thatcher nose, and her Grandmother Mason taking her to the attic
so that she could go upstairs before she went down, that she might never come down in the world,
and what with her Grandfather Mason rubbing her almost raw with his fuzzy beard before the
women could scream at him, and what with her father trying to jostle her on his knee, and what
with all the different things Mrs. Ward, the mother of six, would have done to her, and all
the things Mrs. Culpepper, mother of three, would have done to her, and Mrs. McHurdie, mother
of none, prevented the others from doing, Jeanette had rather an exciting birthday. And Jeanette
Barclay as a young woman often looks at the scrap-book with its crinkly leaves and reads this
item from the Daily Banner: "The angels visited our prosperous city again last Thursday, June
12, and left a little one named Jeanette at the home of our honoured townsman, John Barclay.
Mother and child progressing nicely." But under this item is a long poem clipped from a paper
printed a week later,--Jeanette has counted the stanzas many times and knows there are seventeen,
and each one ends with "when the angels brought Jeanette." Her father used to read the verses
to her to tease her when she was in her teens, and once when she was in her twenties, and Jeanette
had the lonely poet out to dinner one Sunday, she sat with him on the sofa in the library,
looking at the old scrap-book. Their eyes fell upon the verses about the angels bringing Jeanette,
and the girl noticed the old man mumming it over and smiling.

"Tell me, Uncle Watts," she asked, "why did you make such a long poem about such a short girl?"

The poet ran his fingers through his rough gray beard, and went on droning off the lines, and
grinning as he read. When he had finished, he took her pretty hand in his gnarly, bony one
and patted the white firm flesh tenderly as he peered back through the years. "U-h-m, that
was years and years ago, Jeanette--years and years ago, and Nellie had just bought me my rhyming
dictionary. It was the first time I had a chance to use it." The lyrical artist drummed with
his fingers on the mahogany arm of the sofa. "My goodness, child--what a long column there
was of words rhyming with 'ette.'" He laughed to himself as he mused: "You know, my dear, I
had to let 'brevet' and 'fret' and 'roulette' go, because I couldn't think of anything to say
about them. You don't know how that worries a poet." He looked at the verses in the book before
him and then shook his head sadly: "I was young then--it seems strange to think I could write
that. Youth, youth," he sighed as he patted the fresh young hand beside him, "it is not by
chance you rhyme with truth."

His eyes glistened, and the girl put her cheek against his and squeezed the thin, trembling
hand as she cried, "Oh, Uncle Watts, Uncle Watts, you're a dear--a regular dear!"

"In his latter days," writes Colonel Culpepper, in the second edition of the Biography, "those
subterranean fires of life that flowed so fervently in his youth and manhood smouldered, and
he did not write often. But on occasion the flames would rise and burn for a moment with their
old-time ardour. The poem 'After Glow' was penned one night just following a visit with a young
woman, Jeanette, only daughter of Honourable and Mrs. John Barclay, whose birth is celebrated
elsewhere in this volume under the title 'When the Angels brought Jeanette.' The day after
the poem 'After Glow' was composed I was sitting in the harness shop with the poet when the
conversation turned upon the compensations of age. I said: 'Sir, do you not think that one
of our compensations is that found in the freedom and the rare intimacy with which we are treated
by the young women? They no longer seem to fear us. Is it not sweet?' I asked. Our hero turned
from his bench with a smile and a deprecating gesture as he replied softly, 'Ah, Colonel--that's
just it; that's just the trouble.' And then he took from a box near by this poem, 'The After
Glow,' and read it to me. And I knew the meaning of the line--

"'Oh, drowsy blood that tosses in its sleep.'

"And so we fell to talking of other days. And until the twilight came we sat together, dreaming
of faded moons."

CHAPTER XVI

Colonel Martin Culpepper was standing with, one foot on the window ledge in the office of Philemon
R. Ward one bright spring morning watching the procession of humanity file into the post-office
and out into the street upon the regular business of life. Mrs. Watts McHurdie, a bride of
five years and obviously proud of it, hurried by, and Mrs. John Barclay drove down the street
in her phaeton; Oscar Fernald, with a pencil behind his ear, came out of his office licking
an envelope and loped into the post-office and out like a dog looking for his bone; and then
a lank figure sauntered down the street, stopping here and there to talk with a passerby, stepping
into a stairway to light a cigar, and betimes leaning languidly against an awning post in the
sun and overhauling farmers passing down Main Street in their wagons.

"He's certainly a gallus-looking slink," ejaculated the colonel.

The general, writing at his desk, asked, "Who?"

"Our old friend and comrade in arms, Lige Bemis." At the blank look on the general's face the
colonel shook his head wearily. "Don't know what a gallus-looking slink is, do you? General,
the more I live with you damn Yankees and fight for your flag and die for your country, sir,
the more astonished I am at your limited and provincial knowledge of the United States language.
Here you are, a Harvard graduate, with the Harvard pickle dripping off your ears, confessing
such ignorance of your mother-tongue. General, a gallus-looking slink is four hoss thieves,
three revenue officers, a tin pedler, and a sheep-killing dog, all rolled into one man. And
as I before remarked, our beloved comrade, Lige Bemis, is certainly a gallus-looking slink."

"Far be it from me," continued the colonel, "residing as I may say in a rather open and somewhat
exposed domicile--a glass house in fact--to throw stones at Elijah Westlake Bemis,--far be
it." The colonel patted himself heroically on the stomach and laughed. "Doubtless, while I
haven't been a professional horse thief, nor a cattle rustler, still, probably, if the truth
was known, I've done a number of things equally distasteful--I was going to say obnoxious--in
the sight of Mr. Bemis, so we'll let that pass." The colonel stretched his suspenders out and
let them flap against the plaits of his immaculate shirt. "But I will say, General, that as
I see it, it will be a heap handier for me to explain to St. Peter at the gate the things I've
done than if he'd ask me about Lige's record."

The general scratched along, without answering, and the colonel looked meditatively into the
street; then he began to smile, and the smile glowed into a beam that bespread his countenance
and sank into a mood that set his vest to shaking "like a bowl full of jelly." "I was just
thinking," he said to nobody in particular, "that if Lige was jumped out of his grave right
quick by Gabriel and hauled up before St. Peter and asked to justify my record, he'd have some
trouble too--considerable difficulty, I may say. I reckon it's all a matter of having to live
with your sins till you get a good excuse thought up."

The general pushed aside his work impatiently and tilted back in his chair. "Come, Martin Culpepper,
come, come! That won't do. You know better than that. What's the use of your pretending to
be as bad as Lige Bemis? You know better and I know better and the whole town knows better.
He's little, and he's mean, and snooping, and crooked as a dog's hind leg. Why, he was in here
yesterday--actually in here to see me. Yes, sir--what do you think of that? Wants to be state
senator."

"So I hear," smiled the colonel.

"Well," continued the general, "he came in here yesterday as pious as a deacon, and he said
that his friends were insisting on his running because his enemies were bringing up that 'old
trouble' on him. He calls his horse stealing and cattle rustling 'that old trouble.' Honestly,
Martin, you'd think he was being persecuted. It was all I could do to keep from sympathizing
with him. He said he couldn't afford to retreat under fire, and then he told me how he had
been trying to be a better man, and win the respect of the people--and I couldn't stand it
any longer, and I rose up and shook my fist in his face and said: 'Lige Bemis, you disreputable,
horse-stealing cow thief, what right have you to ask my help? What right have you got to run
for state senator, anyway?' And, Martin, the brazen whelp reared back and looked me squarely
in the eye and answered without blinking, 'Because, Phil Ward, I want the job.' What do you
think of that for brass?"

The colonel slapped his campaign hat on his leg and laughed. There was always, even to the
last, something feminine in Martin Culpepper's face when he laughed--a kind of alternating
personality of the other sex seemed to tiptoe up to his consciousness and peek out of his kind
eyes. As he laughed with Ward the colonel spoke: "Criminy, but that's like him. He's over there
talking to Gabe Carnine on the corner now. I know what he's saying. He has only one speech,
and he gets it off to all of us. He's got his cigar chawed down to a rag, stuck in one corner
of his mouth, and he's saying, 'Gabe--this is the fight of my life. This is the last time I'm
going to ask my friends for help.' General, I've heard that now, off and on, first and last,
from old Lige at every city, state, county, and lodge election since the war closed, and I
can see how Gabe is twisting and wiggling trying to get away from it. He's heard it too. Now
Lige is saying: 'Gabe, I ain't going to lie to you; you know me, and you know I've made mistakes--but
they were errors of judgment, and I want to get a chance to live 'em down. I want to show the
young men of this state that Lige Bemis of the Red Legs is a man--even if he was wild as a
young fellow; it'll prove that a man can rise.' Poor old Gabe--Lige has got him by the coat
front, now. That's the third degree. When he gets him by the neck and begins to whisper, he's
giving him the work in the uniform rank. He's saying: 'Gabe, I've got to have you with me.
I can't win without you, and I would rather lose than win with you against me. You stand for
all that's upright in this county, and if you'll come to my aid, I can win.' Here, General--look--Lige's
got him by the neck and the hand. Now for the password right from the grand lodge, 'Gabe, you'd
make a fine state treasurer--I can land it for you. Make me state senator, and with my state
acquaintance, added to the prestige of this office, I can make a deal that will land you.'
Oh, I know his whole speech," laughed the colonel. "Bob Hendricks is to be secretary of state,
John Barclay is to be governor, Oscar Fernald is to be state auditor, and the boys say that
Lycurgus Mason has the refusal of warden of the Penitentiary." The colonel chuckled as he added:
"So far as the boys have been able to learn, Lige still has United States senator, president,
and five places in the cabinet to go on, but Minneola township returns ain't all in yet, and
they may change the result. By the way, General, what did you get?"

The general flushed and replied, "Well, to be perfectly honest with you, Mart--he did promise
me to vote for the dram-shop law."

And in the convention that summer Lige Bemis strode with his ragged cigar sticking from the
corner of his mouth, with his black eyes blazing, and his shock of black hair on end, begging,
bulldozing, and buying delegates to vote for him. He had the river wards behind him to a man,
and he had the upland townships where the farmers needed a second name on their notes at the
bank; and in the gentleman's ward--the silk-stocking ward--he had Gabriel Carnine, chairman
of the first ward delegation, casting the solid vote of that ward for Bemis ballot after ballot.
And when Bemis got Minneola township for fifty dollars,--and everybody in the convention knew
it,--he was declared the nominee of the party with a whoop.

But behind Bemis was the sinister figure of young John Barclay working for his Elevator Company.
He needed Bemis in politics, and Bemis needed Barclay in business. And there the alliance between
Barclay and Bemis was cemented, to last for a quarter of a century. Barclay and Bemis went
into the campaign together and asked the people to rally to the support of the party that had
put down the rebellion, that had freed four million slaves, and had put the names of Lincoln
and of Grant and Garfield as stars in the world's firmament of heroes. And the people of Garrison
County responded, and State Senator Elijah Westlake Bemis did for Barclay in the legislature
the things that Barclay would have preferred not to do for himself, and the Golden Belt Elevator
Company throve and waxed fat. And Lige Bemis, its attorney, put himself in the way of becoming
a "general counsel," with his name on an opaque glass door. For as Barclay rose in the world,
he found the need of Bemis more and more pressing every year. In politics the favours a man
does for others are his capital, and Barclay's deposit grew large. He was forever helping some
one. His standing with the powers in the state was good. He was a local railroad attorney,
and knew the men who had passes to give, and who were responsible for the direction which legislation
took during the session. Barclay saw that they put Bemis on the judiciary committee, and by
manipulating the judiciary committee he controlled a dozen votes through Bemis. He changed
a railroad assessment law, secured the passage of a law permitting his Elevator Company to
cheat the farmers by falsely grading their wheat, and prevented the passage of half a dozen
laws restricting the powers of railroads. So at the close of the legislative session his name
appeared under a wood-cut picture in the Commonwealth newspaper, and in the article thereunto
appended Barclay was referred to as one of the "money kings of our young state." That summer
he turned his wheat into his elevator early and at a low price, and borrowed money on it, and
bought five new elevators and strained his credit to the limit, and before the fall closed
he had ten more, and controlled the wheat in twenty counties. Strangers riding through the
state on the Corn Belt Railroad saw the words, "The Golden Belt Elevator Company" on elevators
all along the line. But few people knew then that the "Company" had become a partnership between
John Barclay of Sycamore Ridge and less than half a dozen railroad men, with Barclay owning
seventy-five per cent of the partnership and with State Senator Bemis the attorney for the company.

That year the railroad officials who were making money out of the Golden Belt Elevator Company
were obliging, and Barclay made a contract with them to ship all grain from the Golden Belt
Company's elevators in cars equipped with the Barclay Economy Rubber Strip, and he sold these
strips to the railroads for four dollars apiece and put them on at the elevators. He shipped
ten thousand cars that year, and Lycurgus Mason hired two men to help him in the strip factory.
And John Barclay, in addition to the regular rebate, made forty thousand dollars that he did
not have to divide. The next year he leased three large mills and took over a score of elevators
and paid Lycurgus twenty dollars a week, and Lycurgus deposited money in the bank in his own
name for the first time in his life.

As the century clanged noisily into its busy eighties, Adrian P. Brownwell creaked stiffly
into his forties. And while all the world about him was growing rich,--or thought it was, which
is the same thing,--Brownwell seemed to be struggling to keep barely even with the score of
life. The Banner of course ran as a daily, but it was a miserable, half-starved little sheet,
badly printed, and edited, as the printers used to say, with a pitchfork. It looked shiftless
and dirty-faced long before Brownwell began to look seedy. Editor Brownwell was forever going
on excursions--editorial excursions, land-buyers' excursions, corn trains, fruit trains, trade
trains, political junkets, tours of inspection of new towns and new fields, and for consideration
he was forever writing grandiloquent accounts of his adventures home to the Banner. But from
the very first he ostentatiously left Molly, his wife, at home. "The place for a woman," said
Brownwell to the assembled company on the Barclay veranda one evening, when Jane had asked
him why he did not take Molly to the opening of the new hotel at Garden City, "the place for
woman is in the sacred precincts of home, 'far from the madding crowd's ignoble throng.' The
madame and I," with a flourish of his cane, "came to that agreement early, eh, my dear, eh?"
he asked, poking her masterfully with his cane. And Molly Brownwell, wistful-eyed and fading,
smiled and assented, and the incident passed as dozens of other incidents passed in the Ridge,
which made the women wish they had Adrian Brownwell, to handle for just one day. But the angels
in that department of heaven where the marriages are made are exceedingly careful not to give
to that particular kind of women the Adrian Brownwell kind of men, so the experiment which
every one on earth for thousands of years has longed to witness, still remains a theory, and
Adrian Brownwell traipsed up and down the earth, in his lavender gloves, his long coat and
mouse-coloured trousers, his high hat, with his twirling cane, and the everlasting red carnation
in his buttonhole. His absence made it necessary for Molly Brownwell to leave the sacred precincts
of the home many and many a Saturday afternoon, to go over the books at the Banner office,
make out bills, take them out, and collect the money due upon them and pay off the printers
who got out the paper. But Adrian Brownwell ostentatiously ignored such services and kept up
the fiction about the sacred precincts, and often wrote scorching editorials about the "encroachment
of women" and grew indignant editorially at the growth of sentiment for woman's suffrage. On
one occasion he left on the copy-hook a fervid appeal for women to repulse the commercialism
which "was sullying the fair rose of womanhood," and taking "from woman the rare perfume of
her chiefest charm," and then he went away on a ten days' journey, and the foreman of the Banner
had to ask Mrs. Brownwell to collect enough money from the sheriff and a delinquent livery-stable
keeper to pay the freight charges on the paper stock needed for that week's issue of the paper.

The town came to know these things, and so when Brownwell, who, since his marriage, had taken
up his abode at the Culpeppers', hinted at his "extravagant family," the town refused to take
him seriously. And the strutting, pompous little man, who referred grandly to "my wife," and
then to "the madame," and finally to "my landlady," in a rather elaborate attempt at jocularity,
laughed alone at his merriment along this line, and never knew that no one cared for his humour.

So in his early forties Editor Brownwell dried up and grew yellow and began to dye his mustaches
and his eyebrows, and to devote much time to considering his own importance. "Throw it out,"
said Brownwell to the foreman, "not a line of it shall go!" He had just come home from a trip
and had happened to glance over the proof of the article describing the laying of the corner-stone
of Ward University.

"But that's the only thing that happened in town this week, and Mrs. Brownwell wrote it herself."

"Cut it out, I say," insisted Brownwell, and then threw back his shoulders and marched to his
desk, snapping his eyes, and demonstrating to the printers that he was a man of consequence.
"I'll teach 'em," he roared. "I'll teach 'em to make up their committees and leave me out."

He raged about the office, and finally wrote the name of Philemon R. Ward in large letters
on the office blacklist hanging above his desk. This list contained the names which under no
circumstances were to appear in the paper. But it was a flexible list. The next day John Barclay,
who desired to have his speech on the laying of the corner-stone printed in full, gave Brownwell
twenty dollars, and a most glowing account of the event in question appeared in the Banner,
and eloquence staggered under the burden of praise which Brownwell's language loaded upon the
shoulders of General Ward.

It is now nearly a generation since that corner-stone was laid. Boys and girls who then were
children have children in the university, and its alumni include a brigadier in the army, a
poet, a preacher of national renown, two college presidents, an authority upon the dynamics
of living matter, and two men who died in the American mission at Foo Chow during the uprising
in 1900. When General Ward was running for President of the United States on one of the various
seceding branches of the prohibition party, while Jeanette Barclay was a little girl, he found
the money for it; two maiden great-aunts on his mother's side of the family had half a million
dollars to leave to something, and the general got it. They willed it to him to hold in trust
during his lifetime, but the day after the check came for it, he had transferred the money
to a university fund, and had borrowed fifty dollars of Bob Hendricks to clean up his grocery
bills and tide him over until his pension came. But he was a practical old fox. He announced
that he would give the money to a college only if the town would give a similar sum, and what
with John Barclay's hundred-thousand-dollar donation, and Bob Hendricks' ten thousand, and
what with the subscription paper carried around by Colonel Culpepper, who proudly headed it
with five thousand dollars, and after the figure wrote in red ink "in real estate," much to
the town's merriment, and what with public meetings and exhortations in the churches, and what
with voting one hundred thousand dollars in bonds by Garrison County for the privilege of sending
students to the college without tuition, the amount was raised; and as the procession wheeled
out of Main Street to attend the ceremonies incident to laying the corner-stone that beautiful
October day, it is doubtful which was the prouder man--Martin Culpepper, the master of ceremonies,
in his plumed hat, flashing sword, and red sash, or General Philemon Ward, who for the first
time in a dozen years heard the crowd cheer his name when the governor in his speech pointed
at the general's picture--his campaign picture that had been hooted with derision and spattered
with filth on so many different occasions in the town. The governor's remarks were of course
perfunctory; he devoted five or ten minutes to the praise of General Ward, of Sycamore Ridge,
of John Barclay, and of education in general, and then made his regular speech that he used
for college commencements, for addresses of welcome to church conferences, synods, and assemblies,
and for conclaves of the grand lodge. General Ward spoke poorly, which was to his credit, considering
the occasion, and Watts McHurdie's poem got entangled with Juno and Hermes and Minerva and
a number of scandalous heathen gods,--who were no friends of Watts,--and the crowd tired before
he finished the second canto. But many discriminating persons think that John Barclay's address,
"The Time of True Romance," was the best thing he ever wrote. It may be found in his book as
Chapter XI. "The Goths," he said, "came out of the woods, pulled the beards of the senators,
destroyed the Roman state, murdered and pillaged the Roman people, and left the world the Gothic
arch; the Vikings came over the sea, roaring their sagas of rapine and slaughter; the conquerors
came to Europe with spear and sword and torch and left the outlines of the map, the boundaries
of states. Luther married his nun, and set Christendom to fighting over it for a hundred years,
but he left a free conscience. Cromwell thrust his pikes into the noble heads of England, snapped
his fingers at law, and left civil liberty. Organized murder reached its sublimity in the war
that Lincoln waged, and in that murdering and pillage true romance came to mankind in its flower.
Murder for the moment in these piping times has become impolite. But true romance is here.
Our heroes rob and plunder, and build cities, and swing gayly around the curves of the railroads
they have stolen, and swagger through the cities they have levied upon the people to build.
Do we care to-day whether Charlemagne murdered his enemies with a sword or an axe; do we ask
if King Arthur used painless assassination or burned his foes at the stake? Who cares to know
that Cæsar was a rake, and that William the Conqueror was a robber? They did their work and
did it well, and are snugly sitting on their monuments where no moralist can reach them. So
those searching for true romance to-day, who regard the decalogue as mere persiflage, and the
moral code as a thing of archaic interest, will get their day's work done and strut into posterity
in bronze and marble. They will cheat and rob and oppress and grind the faces off the poor,
and do their work and follow their visions, and live the romance in their hearts. To-morrow
we will take their work, disinfect it, and dedicate it to God's uses."

There was more of it--four thousand words more, to be exact, and when General Ward went home
that night he prayed his Unitarian God to forgive John Barclay for his blasphemy. And for years
the general shuddered when his memory brought back the picture of the little man, with his
hard tanned face, his glaring green eyes, his brazen voice trumpeting the doctrine of materialism
to the people.

"John," said the general, the next day, as he sat in the mill, going over the plans of the
college buildings with Barclay, who was chairman of the board of directors, "John, why are
you so crass, so gross a materialist? You have enough money--why don't you stop getting it
and do something with it worth while?"

"Because, General, I'm not making money--that's only an incident of my day's work. I'm organizing
the grain industry of this country as it is organized in no other country on this planet."
Barclay rose as he spoke and began limping the length of the room. It was his habit to walk
when he talked, and he knew the general had come to catechize him.

"Yes, but then, John--what then?"

"What then?" repeated Barclay, with his hands in his pockets and his eyes on the floor. "Coffee,
maybe--perhaps sugar, or tobacco. Or why not the whole food supply of the people--let me have
meat and sugar where I will have flour and grain, and in ten years no man in America can open
his grocery store in the morning until he has asked John Barclay for the key." He snapped his
eyes good-naturedly at the general, challenging the man's approval.

The general smiled and replied: "No, John, you'll get the social bug and go around in knee-breeches,
riding a horse after a scared fox, or keeping a lot of hussies on a yacht. They all get that
way sooner or later."

Barclay leaned over Ward, stuck out his hard jaw and growled: "Well, I won't. I'm going to
be a tourist-sleeper millionaire. I stick to Sycamore Ridge; Jeanette goes to the public schools;
Jane buys her clothes at Bob Hendricks' or Dorman's, or at the most of Marshall Field in Chicago;
I go fishing down at Minneola when I want rest." Ward started to protest, but Barclay headed
him off. "I made a million last year. What did I do with it? See any yachts on the Sycamore?
Observe any understudies for Jane around the place? Have you heard of any villas for the Barclays
in Newport? No--no, you haven't, but you may like to know that I have control of a railroad
that handles more wheat than any other hundred miles in the world, and it is the key to the
lake situation. And I've put the price of my Economy Door Strip up to ten dollars, and they
don't dare refuse it. What's more, I'm going to hire a high-priced New York sculptor to make
a monument for old Henry Schnitzler, who fell at Wilson's Creek, and put it in the cemetery.
But I am giving none of my hard-earned cash to cooks and florists and chorus ladies. So if
I want to steal a mill or so every season, and gut a railroad, I'm going to do it, but no one
can rise up and say I am squandering my substance on riotous living."

Barclay shook his head as he spoke and gesticulated with his hands, and the general, seeing
that he could not get the younger man to talk of serious things, brought out the plans for
the college buildings, and the men fell to the work in hand with a will.

Barclay's spirit was the spirit of his times--growing out of a condition which, as Barclay
said in his speech, was like Emersonian optimism set to Wagnerian music. In Sycamore Ridge
factories rose in the bottoms near the creek, and shop hands appeared on the streets at night;
new people invaded Lincoln Avenue, and the Culpeppers, to maintain their social supremacy,
had to hire a coloured man to open the door for an afternoon party, and for an evening reception
it took two, one for the door and one to stand at the top of the stairs.

Those were the palmy days of the colonel's life. Money came easily, and went easily. The Culpepper
Mortgage Company employed fifty men, who handled money all over the West, and one of the coloured
men who opened the door at the annual social affair at the Culpepper home also took care of
the horses, and drove the colonel down to his office in the Barclay block every morning, and
drove him home in the evening.

"Well," said Watts McHurdie to Gabriel Carnine as the two walked down the hill into the business
section of the town, a few days after the corner-stone of Ward College was laid, "old Phil
has got his college started and Mart's got his church a-going."

"You mean the East End Mission? Yes, and I don't know which, of 'em is happier over his work,"
replied Carnine.

"Well, Mart certainly is proud; he's been too busy to loaf in the shop for six months," said
McHurdie.

Carnine smiled, and stroked his chestnut beard reflectively before he added: "Probably that's
why he hasn't been in to renew his last two notes. But I guess he does a lot of good to the
poor people over there along the river. Though I shouldn't wonder if he was encouraging them
to be paupers." Carnine paused a moment and then added, "Good old Mart--he's got a heart just
like a woman's."

They were passing the court-house square, and Bailiff Jacob Dolan, with a fist full of legal
papers, caught step with Carnine and McHurdie. "We were talking about Mart Culpepper and his
Mission Church," said Carnine. "Don't you suppose, Jake, that Mart, by circulating down there
with his basket so much, encourages the people to be shiftless? We were just wondering."

"Oh, you were, were you?" snapped Dolan. "There you go, Gabe Carnine; since you've moved to
town and got to be president of a bank, you're mighty damn scared about making paupers. When
Christ told the young man to sell his goods and give them to the poor, He didn't tell him to
be careful about making them paupers. And Mr. Gabriel Carnine, Esquire, having the aroma of
one large morning's drink on my breath emboldens me to say, that if you rich men will do your
part in giving, the Lord will manage to keep His side of the traces from scraping on the wheel.
And if I had one more good nip, I'd say, which Heaven forbid, that you fellows are asking more
of the Lord by expecting Him to save your shrivelled selfish little souls from hell-fire because
of your squeeze-penny charities, than you would be asking by expecting Him to keep the poor
from becoming paupers by the dribs you give them. And if Mart Culpepper can give his time and
his money every day helping them poor devils down by the track, niggers and whites, good and
bad, male and female, I guess the Lord will put in lick for lick with Mart and see that his
helping doesn't hurt them." Dolan shook his head at the banker, and then smiled at him good-naturedly
as he finished, "Put that in your knapsack, you son of a gun, and chew on it till I see you
again." Whereupon he turned a corner and went his way.

Carnine laughed rather unnaturally and said to McHurdie, "That's why he's never got on like
the other boys. Whiskey's a bad partner."

McHurdie agreed, and went chuckling to his work, when Carnine turned into the bank. Later in
the forenoon Bailiff Dolan came in grinning, and took a seat by the stove in McHurdie's shop
and said as he reached into the waste-basket for a scrap of harness leather, and began whittling
it, "What did Gabe say when I left you this morning?" and without waiting for a reply, went
on, "I've thought for some time Gabe needed a little something for what ails him, and I gave
it to him, out of the goodness of my heart."

McHurdie looked at Dolan over his glasses and replied, "Speech is silver, but silence is golden."

"The same," answered Dolan, "the same it is, and by the same authority apples of gold in pictures
of silver is a word fitly spoken to a man like Gabe Gamine." He whittled for a few minutes
while the harness maker worked, and then sticking his pocket-knife into the chair between his
legs, said: "But what I came in to tell you was about Lige Bemis; did you know he's in town?
Well, he is. Johnnie Barclay wired him to leave the dump up in the City and come down here,
and what for, do you think? 'Tis this. The council was going to change the name of Ellen Avenue
out by the college to Garfield, and because it was named for that little girl of Mart's that
died right after the war, don't you think Johnnie's out raising hell about it, and brought
Lige down here to beat the game. He'll be spending a lot of money if he has to. Now you wouldn't
think he'd do that for old Mart, would you? He's too many for me--that Johnny boy is. I can't
make him out." The Irishman played with his knife, sticking it in the chair and pulling it
out for a while, and then continued: "Oh, yes, what I was going to tell you was the little
spat me and Lige had over Johnnie. Lige was in my room in the court-house waiting to see a
man in the court, and was bragging to me about how smart John was, and says Lige, 'He's found
some earth over in Missouri--yellow clay,' he says, 'that's just as good as oatmeal, and he
ships it all over the country to his oatmeal mills and mixes it with the real stuff and sells
it.' I says: 'He does, does he? Sells mud mixed with oatmeal?' and Lige says, 'Yes, sir, he's
got a whole mountain of it, and he's getting ten dollars a ton net for it, which is better
than a gold mine.' 'And you call that smart?' says I. 'Yes,' says he, 'yes, sir, that's commercial
instinct; it's perfectly clean mud, and our chemist says it won't harm any one,' says he. 'And
him president of the Golden Belt Elevator Co.?' says I. 'He is,' says Lige. 'And don't need
the money at all?' says I. 'Not a penny of it,' says he. 'Well,' says I, 'Lige Bemis,' says
I, 'when Johnnie gets to hell,--and he'll get there as sure as it doesn't freeze over,' says
I, 'may the devil put him under that mountain of mud and keep his railroad running night and
day dumping more mud on while he eats his way out as a penance,' says I. And you orto heard
'em laugh." Dolan went on cutting curly-cues from the leather, and McHurdie kept on sewing
at his bench. "It is a queer world--a queer world; and that Johnnie Barclay is a queer duck.
Bringing Lige Bemis clear down here to help old Mart out of a little trouble there ain't a
dollar in; and then turning around and feeding the American people a mountain of mud. Giving
the town a park with his mother's name on it, and selling little tin strips for ten dollars
apiece to pay for it. He's a queer duck. I'll bet it will keep the recording angel busy keeping
books on Johnnie Barclay."

"Oh, well, Jake," replied McHurdie, after a silence, "maybe the angels will just drop a tear
and wipe much of the evil off."

"Maybe so, Watts McHurdie, maybe so," returned Dolan, "but there won't be a dry eye in the
house, as the papers say, if they keep up with him." And after delivering himself of this,
Dolan rose and yawned, and went out of the shop singing an old tune which recited the fact
that he had "a job to do down in the boulevard."

Looking over the years that have passed since John Barclay and Sycamore Ridge were coming out
of raw adolescence into maturity, one sees that there was a miracle of change in them both,
but where it was and just how it came, one may not say. The town had no special advantages.
It might have been one of a thousand dreary brown unpainted villages that dot the wind-swept
plain to-day, instead of the bright, prosperous, elm-shaded town that it is. John Barclay in
those days of his early thirties might have become a penny-pinching dull-witted "prominent
citizen" of the Ridge, with no wider sphere of influence than the Sycamore Valley, or at most
the Corn Belt Railroad. But he and the town grew, and whether it was destiny that guided them,
or whether they made their own destiny, one cannot say. The town seemed to be struggling and
fighting its way to supremacy in the Sycamore Valley; and the colonel and the general and Watts
McHurdie, sitting in the harness shop a score of years after those days of the seventies, used
to try to remember some episode or event that would tell them how John fought his way up. But
they could not do so. It was a fight in his soul. Every time his hand reached out to steal
a mill or crush an opponent with the weapon of his secret railroad rebates, something caught
his hand and held it for a moment, and he had to fight his way free. At first he had to learn
to hate the man he was about to ruin, and to pretend that he thought the man was about to ruin
him. Then he could justify himself in his greedy game. But at last he worked almost merrily.
He came to enjoy the combat for its own sake. And sometimes he would play with a victim cat-wise,
and after a victory in which the mouse fought well, John would lick his chops with some satisfaction
at his business prowess. Mill after mill along the valley and through the West came under his
control. And his skin grew leathery, and the brass lustre in his eyes grew hard and metallic.
When he knew that he was the richest man in Garrison County, he saw that there were richer
men in the state, and in after years when he was the richest man in the state, and in the Missouri
Valley, the rich men in other states moved him by their wealth to work harder. But before he
was thirty, his laugh had become a cackle, and Colonel Martin Culpepper, who would saunter
along when Barclay would limp by on Main Street, would call out after him, "Slow down, Johnnie,
slow down, boy, or you'll bust a biler." And then the colonel would pause and gaze benignly
after the limping figure bobbing along in the next block, and if there was a bystander to address,
the colonel would say, "For a flat-wheel he does certainly make good time." And then if the
bystander looked worth the while, the colonel, in seven cases out of ten, would pull out a
subscription paper for some new church building, or for some charitable purpose, and proceed
to solicit the needed funds.

BOOK II

BEING NO CHAPTER AT ALL, BUT AN INTERLUDE FOR THE ORCHESTRA

And so the years slipped by--monotonous years they seem now, so far as this story goes. Because
little happened worth the telling; for growth is so still and so dull and so undramatic that
it escapes interest and climax; yet it is all there is in life. For the roots of events in
the ground of the past are like the crowded moments of our passing lives that are recorded
only in our under-consciousnesses, to rise in other years in character formed, in traits established,
in events fructified. And in the years when the evil days came not, John Barclay's tragedy
was stirring in the soil of his soul.

And now, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the management, let us thank you for your kind
attention, during the tedious act which has closed. We have done our best to please you with
the puppets and have cracked their heads together in fine fashion, and they have danced and
cried and crackled, while we pulled the strings as our mummers mumbled. But now they must have
new clothes on. Time, the great costumer, must change their make-up. So we will fold down the
curtain. John Barclay, a Gentleman, must be painted yellow with gold. Philemon Ward, a Patriot,
must be sprinkled with gray. Martin Culpepper's Large White Plumes must be towsled. Watts McHurdie,
a Poet, must be bent a little at the hips and shoulders. Adrian Brownwell, a Gallant, must
creak as he struts. Neal Dow Ward, an Infant, must put on long trousers. E. W. Bemis, a Lawyer,
must be dignified; Jacob Dolan, an Irishman and a Soldier, must grow unkempt and frowsy. Robert
Hendricks, Fellow Fine, must have his blond hair rubbed off at the temples, and his face marked
with maturity. Lycurgus Mason, a Woman Tamer, must get used to wearing white shirts. Gabriel
Carnine, a Money Changer, must feel his importance; and Oscar Fernald, a Tavern Keeper, must
be hobbled by the years. All but the shades must be refurbished. General Hendricks and Elmer,
his son, must fade farther into the mists of the past, while Henry Schnitzler settles comfortably
down in storied urn and animated bust.

There they hang together on the line, these basswood folk, and beside them wave their womankind.
These also must be repaired and refitted throughout, as Oscar Fernald's letter-heads used to
say of the Thayer House. Jane Barclay, Wife of John, must have the "star light, star bright"
wiped out of her eyes. Mary Barclay, Mother of the Same, must have her limbs trimmed gaunt,
and her face chiselled strong and indomitable. Jeanette Barclay, a Toddler, must grow into
dresses. Molly Culpepper, a Dear, must have her heart taken out, and her face show the shock
of the operation. Nellie Logan, a poet's Wife, must join all the lodges in the Ridge to help
her husband in politics. Trixie Lee, little Beatrix Lee, daughter of J. Lord and Lady Lee,
must have her childish face scarred and her eyes glazed. Mrs. Hally Bemis, a Prodigal, must
be swathed in silk. Elizabeth Cady Stanton Ward and all her sisters must be put in the simple
garb of school-teachers. Miss Hendricks, a Mouse, must hide in the dusky places; and Ellen
Culpepper, a Memory, must come to life.

And so, ladies and gentlemen, while we have been diverting you, Time has been at work on the
little people of the passing show, and now before we draw back the curtain to let them caper
across your hearts, let us again thank you one and all for your courtesy in staying, and hope
that what you see and hear may make you wiser and kinder and braver; for this is a moral entertainment,
good people, planned to show you that yesterday makes to-day and they both make to-morrow,
and so the world spins round the sun.

CHAPTER XVII

The rumble of the wheels in the great stone mill across the Sycamore and the roar of the waters
over the dam seem to have been in Jeanette Barclay's ears from the day of her birth; for she
was but a baby when the stone mill rose where the little red mill had stood, and beside the
stone mill there had grown up the long stone factory wherein Lycurgus Mason was a man of consequence.
As the trains whirled by strangers could see the signs in mammoth letters, "The Golden Belt
Mills" on the larger building and on the smaller, "The Barclay Economy Door Strip Factory."
Standing on the stone steps of her father's house the child could read these signs clear across
the mill-pond, and from these signs she learned her letters. For her father had more pride
in that one mill on the Sycamore than in the scores of other mills that he controlled. And
even in after years, when he controlled mills all over the West, and owned railroads upon which
to take his flour to the sea, and ships in which to carry his flour all over the world, the
Golden Belt Mill at Sycamore Ridge was his chief pride. The rumble of the wheels and the hoarse
voice of the dam that seemed to Jeanette like the call of the sea, were so sweet to her father's
ears that when he wearied of the work of the National Provisions Company, with its two floors
of busy offices in the Corn Exchange Building in the great city, he would come home to Sycamore
Ridge, and go to his private office in the mill. The child remembers what seemed like endless
days, but what in truth were only a few hours in a few days in a few years, when Daddy Barclay
carried her on his shoulders across the bridge and sat her down barefooted and bareheaded to
play upon the dam, while he in his old clothes prodded among the great wheels near by or sat
beside her telling her where he caught this fish or that fish or a turtle or a water moccasin
when he was a little boy. At low water, she remembers that he sometimes let her wade in the
clear stream, while he sat in his office near by watching her from the window. That was when
she was only four years old, and she always had the strangest memory of a playfellow on the
dam, a big girl, who fluttered in and out of the shadows on the stones. Jeanette talked with
her, but no one else could see her, and once the big girl, who could not talk herself, stamped
her feet and beckoned Jeanette to come away from a rock on which she was playing, and her father,
looking out of a window, turned white when he saw a snake coiled beside the rock. But Jeanette
saw the snake and was frightened, and told her father that Ellen saw it too, and she could
not make him understand who Ellen was. So he only trembled and hugged his little girl to him
tightly, and mother would not let the child play on the dam again all that summer.

She made songs to fit the rhythmic murmur of the wheels. And always she remembered the days
she had spent with Daddy Mason in the factory where the machines thumped and creaked, and where
the long rubber sheets were cut and sewed, and the clanking rolls of tin and zinc curled into
strips, and Daddy Mason made her a little set of dishes and all the things she needed in her
playhouse from the scraps of tin and rubber, and she learned to twist the little tin strips
on a stick and make the prettiest bright shiny tin curls for her dolls that a little girl ever
saw in all the world. And once Ellen came from among the moving shadows of the wheels and drew
Jeanette from beneath a great knife that fell at her feet, and when Daddy Mason saw what had
happened he fainted, poor man, and made her promise never, never, so long as she lived, to
tell Grandma Mason. And then he drove her up town, and they had some ice-cream, and she was
sent to bed without her lunch because she would not tell Grandma Mason why grandpa bought ice-cream
for her.

It was such a beautiful life, so natural and so exactly what a little girl should have, that
even though she went to the ocean and crossed it as a child with her mother and grandmother,
and even though she went to the mountains many times, her childish heart always was homesick
for the mill, and at night in her dreams her ears were filled with the murmur of waters and
the wordless song of ceaseless wheels. And once when she came back a big girl,--an exceedingly
big girl with braids down her back, a girl in the third reader in fact, who could read everything
in the fourth reader, because she had already done so, and who could read Eugene Aram in the
back of the sixth, only she never did find out what "gyves upon his wrists" meant,--once when
she came back to the dam and was sitting there looking at the sunset reflected in the bubbling,
froth-flecked water at her feet, Ellen came suddenly, under the noise of the roaring water,
and frightened Jeanette so that she screamed and jumped; and Ellen, who was much older than
Jeanette--four or five and maybe six years older--ran right over the slippery, moss-covered
ridge of the dam, and was gone before Jeanette could call her back. The child never saw her
playmate again, though often Jeanette would wonder where Ellen lived and who she was. As the
years went by, Jeanette came to remember her playmate as her dream child, and once when she
was a young miss of eighteen, and something in her hurt to be said, she tried to make a little
poem about her dream-child playmate, but all she ever got was:--

"O eyes, so brown and clear like water sparkling over mossy stones."

So she gave it up and wrote a poem about a prince who carried away a maiden, and then she tore
up the prince and the maiden, and if it were not for that line about the eyes in the back of
her trigonometry, with a long list of words under it rhyming with "stones," she would have
forgotten about her playfellow, and much of the memory of the dam and the pride she took as
a child in the great letters upon the high stone walls of the mills, and of the word "Barclay"
on the long low walls of the factory, might have passed from her consciousness altogether.
By such frail links does memory bind us to our past; and yet, once formed, how like steel they
hold us! What we will be, grows from what we are, and what we are has grown from what we were.
If Jeanette Barclay, the only child of a man who, when she was in her twenties, was to be one
of the hundred richest men in his country,--so far as mere money goes,--had been brought up
with a governess and a maid, and with frills and furbelows and tucks and Heaven knows what
of silly kinks and fluffy stuff in her childish head, instead of being brought up in the Sycamore
Ridge public schools, with Grandmother Barclay to teach her the things that a little girl in
the fourth reader should know, and with a whole community of honest, hard-working men and women
about her to teach her what life really is, indeed she would have lived a different life, and
when she was ready to marry--But there we go looking in the back of the book again, and that
will not do at all; and besides, a little blue-eyed girl in gingham aprons, sitting on a cool
stone with moss on its north side, watching the bass play among the rocks in a clear, deep,
sun-mottled pool under a great elm tree, has a right to the illusions of her childhood and
should not be hustled into long dresses and love affairs until her time has come.

But the recollection of those days, so vivid and so sweet, is one of her choicest treasures.
Of course things were not as she saw them. Jake Dolan was only in his forties then, and considered
himself a young man. But the child remembers him as a tall, brown-eyed man whom she saw on
state occasions in his faded blue army clothes, and to her he has always been the picture of
a veteran. Some one must have told her--though she cannot remember who it was--that as Jake
Dolan gently descended the social and political scale, he sloughed off his worldly goods, and
as he moved about in the court-house from the sheriff's office to the deputy's office, and
from the deputy's to the bailiff's, and from the bailiff's to the constable's, and from the
constable's to the janitor's room in the basement, he carried with him the little bundle that
contained all his worldly goods, the thin blue uniform, spotless and trim, and his lieutenant's
commission, and mustering-out papers from the army. It is odd, is it not, that this prosaic
old chap, who smoked a clay pipe, and whose only accomplishment was the ability to sing "The
Hat me Father Wore," under three drinks, and the "Sword of Bunker Hill," under ten, should
have epitomized all that was heroic in this child's memory. As for General Philemon Ward,--a
dear old crank who, when Jeanette was born, was voting with the Republican party for the first
time since the war, and who ran twice for President on some strange issue before she was in
long dresses,--General Ward, whose children's ages could be guessed by the disturbers of the
public peace, whose names they bore,--Eli Thayer, Mary Livermore, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Frances
Willard, Neal Dow, Belva Lockwood, and Helen Gougar,--General Ward, who scorned her father's
offer of ten thousand dollars a year as state counsel for the National Provisions Company,
and went out preaching fiat money and a subtreasury for the farmers' crops, trusting to God
and the flower garden about his little white house, to keep the family alive--it is odd that
Jeanette's childish impression was that General Ward was a man of consequence in the world.
Perhaps his white necktie, his long black coat, and his keen lean face, or his prematurely
gray hair, gave her some sort of a notion of his dignity, but whatever gave her that notion
she kept it, and though in her later life there came a passing time when she hated him, she
did not despise him. And what with the song that she heard the bands playing all over the country,
the song that the bands sometimes played for Americans in Europe, very badly, as though it
was being translated from English into broken French or Italian, what with Watts McHurdie's
fame and with his verses that appeared in the Banner on formal occasions, the girl built a
fancy of him as one of the world's great poets--some one like Shakespeare or Milton; and she
was well into her teens before she realized the truth, that he was an excellent harness maker
who often brought out of his quaint little dream world odd-shaped fancies in rhyme,--some grotesque,
some ridiculous, and some that seemed pretty for a moment,--and who under the stress of a universal
emotion had rhymed one phase of our common nature and set it to a simple tune that moved men
deeply without regard to race or station. So she lived in her child world--a world quite different
from the real world--a world gilded by the sunrise of consciousness; and because the angels
loved her and kept her heart clean, the gilding never quite wore off her heroes. And nothing
that Heaven gives us in this world is so blessed as to have the gilding stick to the images
of our youth. In Jeanette's case even Lige Bemis--Judge Bemis, she had been taught to call
him--never showed the tar under the gilding to her eyes. Her first memory of him was in her
father's office in the big City. He was a tall man, with gray hair that became him well, with
sharp black eyes, and enough flesh on his bones to carry the frock-coats he always wore and
give him a corporosity just escaping the portly. She remembers seeing the name "E. W. Bemis"
in gold letters on the door of his room, and not being able to figure out how a man whose name
began with "E" or "W" could be called Lige. He was General Counsel of the Corn Belt Railroad
in those days, when her father was president of the road, and she knew that he was a man always
to be considered. And when, as a woman grown, she learned the truth about Lige Bemis, it was
hard to believe, for all she could find against him was his everlasting smile.

It is a curious and withal a beautiful thing to see a child come into the worn and weary world
that we grownups have made, and make it over into another world altogether. Perhaps the child's
eye and the child's heart, fresh from God, see and feel more clearly and more justly than we
do. For this much is sure--Jeanette was right in keeping to the end the image of Colonel Martin
Culpepper as a knight-errant, who needed only a bespangled steed, a little less avoirdupois,
and a foolish cause to set him battling in the tourney. As it was, in this humdrum world, the
colonel could do nothing more heroic than come rattling down Main Street into the child's heart,
sitting with some dignity in his weather-beaten buggy, while instead of shining armour and
a glistening helmet he wore nankeen trousers, a linen coat, and a dignified panama hat. Moreover,
it is stencilled into her memory indelibly that the colonel was the first man in this wide
world to raise his hat to her.

Now it should not be strange that this world was a sad jumble of fiction and of facts to a
child's eyes; for to many an older pair of eyes it has all seemed a puzzle. Even the shrewd,
kind brown eyes of Jacob Dolan often failed to see things as they were, and what his eyes did
see sometimes bewildered him. By day Dolan saw Robert Hendricks, president of the Exchange
National Bank, president and manager of the Sycamore Ridge Light, Heat, and Power Company,
proprietor of the Hendricks Mercantile Company, treasurer and first vice-president of the new
Western Wholesale Grocery, and chairman of his party's congressional central committee, and
Dolan's eyes saw a hard, busy man--a young man, it is true; a tall, straight, rather lean,
rope-haired young man in his thirties, with frank blue eyes, that turned rather suddenly upon
one as if to frighten out a secret. The man seemed real enough to Dolan, from the wide crown
of his slightly bald, V-shaped head, to his feet with the hard click in the heels; and yet
that man paid no particular attention to Dolan. It was "Hello, Jake," with a nod, as they passed,
maybe only an abstracted stare and a grunt. But at night, as they walked together over the
town under the stars or moon, a lonely soul rose out of the tall body and spread over the face.

Dolan kept to his pipe and Hendricks to his cigar. But these were the only marks of caste between
them. One night Hendricks led the way across the bridge down the river road and into the fields.
They walked far up the stream and their conversation had consisted largely of "Watch out,"
"All right," "I see," "This is the best way." They loitered down a dark lane shaded by hedgerows
until they came to a little wooden bridge and sat down. Dolan looked at the stars, while a
pipe and a cigar had burned out before Hendricks spoke, "Well, chatterbox?"

"I was bothered with a question of mistaken identity," replied Dolan. To the silence he answered:
"Me myself. I'm the man. Do you happen to know who I am?" Hendricks broke a splinter from the
wood under him, and Dolan continued: "Of course you don't, and neither do I. For example, I
go down into Union township before election and visit with the boys. I bring a box of cigars
and maybe a nip under the buggy seat, and maybe a few stray five-dollar bills for the lads
that drive the wagons that haul the voters to the polls. I go home, and I says to myself: 'I
have that bailiwick to a man. No votes there against Jake.' But the morning after election
I see Jake didn't get but two votes in the township. Very well. Now who did they vote against?
Surely not against the genial obliging rollicking Irish lad whose face I shave every other
morning. What could they possibly have against him? No--they voted against that man Dolan,
who got drunk, at the Fair and throwed the gate receipts into the well, and tried to shoo the
horses off the track into the crowd at the home-stretch of the trotting race. He's the man
they plugged. And there's another one--him that confesses to Father Van Sandt." Dolan shook
his head sadly and sighed. "He's a black-hearted wretch. If you want to see how a soul will
look in its underwear, get an Irishman to confess to a Dutchman." The chirp of crickets arose
in the silence, and after a time Dolan concluded, "And now there abideth these three, me that
I shave, me that they vote against, and me that the Father knows; and the greatest of these
is charity--I dunno."

The soul beside him on the bridge came back from a lilac bower of other years, with a girl's
lips glowing upon his and the beat of a girl's heart throbbing against his own. The soul was
seared with images that must never find spoken words, and it moved the lips to say after exhaling
a deep breath from its body, "Well, let's go home." There, too, was a question of identity.
Who was Robert Hendricks? Was he the man chosen to lead his party organization because he was
clean above reproach and a man of ideals; was he the man who was trusted with the money of
the people of his town and county implicitly; or was he the man who knew that on page 234 of
the cash ledger for 1879 in the county treasurer's office in the Garrison County court-house
there was a forgery in his own handwriting to cover nine thousand dollars of his father's debt?
Or was he the man who for seven years had crept into a neighbour's garden on a certain night
in April to smell the lilac blossoms and always had found them gone, and had stood there rigid,
with upturned face and clenched fists, cursing a fellow-man? Or was he the man who in the county
convention of his party had risen pale with anger, and had walked across the floor and roared
his denunciation of Elijah W. Bemis as a boodler and a scoundrel squarely to the man's gray,
smirking face and chattering teeth, and then had reached down, and grabbed the trapped bribe-giver
by the scruff of the neck and literally thrown him out of the convention, while the crowd went
mad with applause? As he went home that night following the convention, walking by the side
of Dolan in silence, he wondered which of all his aliases he really was. At the gate of the
Hendricks home the two men stopped. Hendricks smiled quizzically as he asked: "Well, I give
it up, Jake. By the way, did you ever meet me?"

The brown eyes of the Irishman beamed an instant through the night, before he hurried lightly
down the street.

And so with all of this hide-and-seek of souls, now peering from behind eyes and now far away
patting one--two--three upon some distant base, with all these queer goings-on inside of people
here in this strange world, it is no wonder that when the angels brought Jeanette to the Barclays,
they left her much to learn and many things to study about. So she had to ask questions. But
questions often reveal more than answers. At least once they revealed much, when she sat on
the veranda of the Barclay home a fine spring evening with all the company there. Aunt Molly
was there; and Uncle Bob Hendricks was there, the special guest of Grandma Barclay. Uncle Adrian
was away on a trip somewhere; but Uncle Colonel and Grandma Culpepper and all the others were
there listening to father's new German music-box, and no one should blame a little girl, sitting
shyly on the stone steps, trying to make something out of the absurd world around her, if she
piped out when the talk stopped:--

"Mother, why does Aunt Molly cut off her lilac buds before they bloom?"

And when her mother assured her that Aunt Molly did nothing of the kind, and when Uncle Bob
Hendricks looked up and saw Aunt Molly go pale under her powder, and when Aunt Molly said,
"Why, Jane--the child must have dreamed that," no one in this wide world must blame a little
girl for opening her eyes as wide as she could, and lifting her little voice as strongly as
she could, and saying: "Why, Aunt Molly, you know I saw you last night--when I stayed with
you. You know I did, 'cause I looked out of the window and spokened to you. You know I did--don't
you remember?" And no one must blame the mother for shaking her finger at Jeanette, and no
one must blame Jeanette for sitting there shaking a protesting head, and screwing up her little
face, trying to make the puzzle out.

And when, later in the evening, Daddy Barclay went over to the mill with his work, and Uncle
Bob left in the twilight, and Aunt Molly and mother were alone in mother's room, how should
a little girl know what the crying was all about, and how should a little girl understand when
a small woman, looking in a mirror, and dabbing her face with a powder rag, said to mother,
who knows everything in the world, and all about the angels that brought you here: "Oh, Jane,
Jane, you don't know--you don't understand. There are things that I couldn't make you understand--and
I mustn't even think of them."

Surely it is a curious world for little girls--a passing curious world, when there are things
in it that even mothers cannot understand.

So Jeanette turned her face to the wall and went to sleep, leaving Aunt Molly powdering her
nose and asking mother, "Does it look all right now--" and adding, "Oh, I'm such a fool." In
so illogical a world, the reader must not be allowed to think that Molly Brownwell lamented
the folly of mourning for a handsome young gentleman in blue serge with white spats on his
shoes and a Byronic collar and a fluffy necktie of the period. Far be it from her to lament
that sentiment as folly; however, when she looked at her eyes in the mirror and saw her nose,
she felt that tears were expensive and reproached herself for them. But so long as these souls
of ours, whatever they may be, are caged in our bodies, our poor bodies will have to bear witness
to their prisoners. If the soul smiles the body shines, and if the soul frets the body withers.
And Molly Brownwell saw in the looking-glass that night more surely than ever before that her
face was beginning to slump. Her cheeks were no longer firm, and at her eyes were the stains
of tears that would not wipe off, but crinkled the skin at the temples and deepened the shadows
into wide salmon-coloured lines that fell away from each side of the nose so that no trick
could hide them. Moreover, the bright eyes that used to flash into Bob Hendricks' steady blue
eyes had grown tired, and women who did not know, wondered why such a pretty girl had broken so.

The Culpeppers had remained with the Barclays for dinner, and the hour was late for the Ridge--after
nine o'clock, and as the departing guests went down the long curved walk of Barclay pride to
the Barclay gate, they saw a late April moon rising over the trees by the mill. They clanged
the tall iron gate behind them, and stood a moment watching the moon. For the colonel never
grew too old to notice it. He put his arms about his wife and his daughter tenderly, and said
before they started up the street, "It never grows old--does it?" And he pressed his wife to
him gently and repeated, "Does it, my dear--it's the same old moon; the one we used to have
in Virginia before the war, isn't it?"

His wife smiled at him placidly and said, "Now, pa--"

Whereupon the colonel squeezed his daughter lustily, and exclaimed, "Well, Molly still loves
me, anyway. Don't you, Molly?" And the younger woman patted his cheek, and then they started
for home.

"Papa, how much money has John?" asked the daughter, as they walked along.

A man always likes to be regarded as an authority in financial matters, and the colonel stroked
his goatee wisely before replying: "U-h-m-m, let me see--I don't exactly know. Bob and I were
talking about it the other day--after I bought John's share in College Heights--last year,
to be exact. Of course he's got the mill and it's all paid for--say a hundred thousand dollars--and
that old wheat land he got back in the seventies--he's cleaned all of that up. I should say
that and the mill were easily worth half a million, and they're both clear. That's all in sight."
The colonel ruminated a moment and then continued: "About the rest--it's a guess. Some say
a million, some say ten. All I know in point of fact, my dear, to get right down to bed-rock,
is that Lycurgus says they are turning out two or three car-loads of the strips a year. I wouldn't
believe Lycurgus on a stack of Bibles as high as his head, but little Thayer Ward, who works
down there in the shipping department, told the general the same thing, and Bob says he knows
John gets ten dollars apiece for them now, so that's a million dollars a year income he's got.
He handles grain and flour way up in Minnesota, and back as far as Ohio, and west to California.
But what he actually owns,--that is, whether he rents the mills or, to be exact, steals them,--I
haven't any idea--not the slightest notion in the world, in point of fact--not the slightest
notion."

As they passed through Main Street it was deserted, save in the billiard halls, and as no one
seemed inclined to talk, the colonel took up the subject of Barclay: "Say we call it five million--five
million in round numbers; that's a good deal of money for a man to have and haggle a month
over seventy-five dollars the way he did with me when he sold me his share of College Heights.
But," added the colonel, "I suppose if I had that much I'd value it more." The women were thinking
of other things, and the colonel addressed the night: "Man gets an appetite for money just
as he does for liquor--just like the love for whiskey, I may say." He shook his sides as he
meditated aloud: "But as for me--I guess I've got so I can take it or let it alone. Eh, ma?"

"I didn't catch what you were saying, pa," answered his wife. "I was just thinking whether
we had potatoes enough to make hash for breakfast; have we, Molly?"

As the women were discussing the breakfast, two men came out of a cross street, and the colonel,
who was slightly in advance of his women, hailed the men with, "Hello there, Bob--you and Jake
out here carrying on your illicit friendship in the dark?"

The men and the Culpeppers stopped for a moment at the corner. Molly Brownwell's heart throbbed
as they met, and she thought of the rising moon, and in an instant her brain was afire with
a hope that shamed her. Three could not walk abreast on the narrow sidewalk up the hill, and
when she heard Hendricks say after the group had parleyed a moment, "Well, Jake, good night;
I'll go on home with the colonel," she managed the pairing off so that the young man fell to
her, and the colonel and Mrs. Culpepper walked before the younger people, and they all talked
together. But at Lincoln Avenue, the younger people disconnected themselves from the talk of
the elders, and finally lagged a few feet behind. When they reached the gate the colonel called
back, "Better come in and visit a minute, Bob," and Molly added, "Yes, Bob, it's early yet."

But what she said with her voice did not decide the matter for him. It was her eyes. And what
he said with his voice is immaterial--it was what his eyes replied that the woman caught. What
he said was, "Well, just for a minute, Colonel," and the party walked up the steps of the veranda,
and Bob and Molly and the colonel sat down.

Mrs. Culpepper stood for a moment and then said, "Well, Bob, you must excuse me--I forgot to
set my sponge, and there isn't a bit of bread in the house for Sunday." Whereupon she left
them, and when the colonel had talked himself out he left them, and when the two were alone
there came an awkward silence. In the years they had been apart a thousand things had stirred
in their hearts to say at this time, yet all their voices spoke was, "Well, Molly?" and "Well,
Bob?" The moon was in their faces as it shone through the elm at the gate. The man turned his
chair so that he could look at her, and after satisfying his eyes he broke the silence with,
"Seven years."

And she returned, "Seven years the thirteenth of April."

The man played a tune with his fingers and a foot and said nothing more. The woman finally
spoke. "Did you know it was the thirteenth?"

"Yes," he replied, "father died the ninth. I have often counted it up." He added shortly after:
"It's a long time--seven years! My! but it has been a long time!"

"I have wondered if you have thought so," a pause, "too!"

Their hearts were beating too fast for thoughts to come coherently. The fever of madness was
upon them, and numbed their wills so that they could not reach beneath the surface of their
consciousnesses to find words for their emotions. Then also there was in each a deadening,
flaming sense of guilt. Shame is a dumb passion, and these two, who in the fastnesses of a
thousand nights had told themselves that what they sought was good and holy, now found in each
other's actual presence a gripping at the tongue's root that held them dumb.

"Yes, I--" the man mumbled, "yes, I--I fancied you understood that well enough."

"But you have been busy?" she asked; "very busy, Bob, and oh, I've been so proud of all that
you've done." It was the woman's tongue that first found a sincere word.

The man replied, "Well--I--I am glad you have."

It seemed to the woman a long time since her father had gone. Her conscience was making minutes
out of seconds. She said, "Don't you think it's getting late?" but did not rise.

The man looked at his watch and answered, "Only 10.34." He started to rise, but she checked
him breathlessly.

"Oh, Bob, Bob, sit down. This isn't enough for these long years. I had so many things to say
to you." She hesitated and cried, "Why are we so stupid now--now when every second counts?"

He bent slightly toward her and said in a low voice, "So that's why your lilacs have never
bloomed again."

She looked at her chair arm and asked, "Did you know they hadn't bloomed?"

"Oh, Molly, of course I knew," he answered, and then went on: "Every thirteenth of April I
have slipped through the fence and come over here, rain or shine, at night, to see if they
were blooming. But I didn't know why they never bloomed!"

The woman rose and walked a step toward the door, and turned her head away. When she spoke
it was after a sob, "Bob, I couldn't bear it--I just couldn't bear it, Bob!"

He groaned and put his hands to his forehead and rested his elbow on the chair arm. "Oh, Molly,
Molly, Molly," he sighed, "poor, poor little Molly." After a pause he said: "I won't ever bother
you again. It doesn't do any good." A silence followed in which the woman turned her face to
him, tear-stained and wretched, with the seams of her heart all torn open and showing through
it. "It only hurts," the man continued, and then he groaned aloud, "Oh, God, how it hurts!"

She sank back into her chair and buried her face in the arm farthest from him and her body
shook, but she did not speak. He stared at her dry-eyed for a minute, that tolled by so slowly
that he rose at the end of it, fearful that his stay was indecorously long.

"I think I should go now," he said, as he passed her.

"Oh, no!" she cried. "Not yet, not just yet." She caught his arm and he stopped, as she stood
beside him, trembling, haggard, staring at him out of dead, mad eyes. There was no colour in
her blotched face, and in the moonlight the red rims of her eyes looked leaden, and her voice
was unsteady. At times it broke in sobbing croaks, and she spoke with loose jaws, as one in
great terror. "I want you to know--" she paused at the end of each little hiccoughed phrase--"that
I have not forgotten--" she caught her breath--"that I think of you every day--" she wiped
her eyes with a limp handkerchief--"every day and every night, and pray for you, though I don't
believe--" she whimpered as she shuddered--"that God cares much about me."

He tried to stop her, and would have gone, but she put a hand upon his shoulder and pleaded:
"Just another minute. Oh, Bob," she cried, and her voice broke again, "don't forget me. Don't
forget me. When I was so sick last year--you remember," she pleaded, "I raved in delirium a
week." She stopped as if afraid to go on, then began to shake as with a palsy. "I raved of
everything under God's sun, and through it all, Bob--not one word of you. Oh, I knew that wouldn't
do." She swayed upon his arm. "I kept a little corner of my soul safe to guard you." She sank
back into her chair and chattered, "Oh, I guarded you."

She was crying like a child. He stood over her and touched her dishevelled hair with the tips
of his fingers and said: "I oughtn't to stay, Molly."

And she motioned him away with her face hidden and sobbed, "No--I know it."

He paused a moment on the step before her and then said, "Good-by, Molly--I'm going now." And
she heard him walking down the yard on the grass, so that his footsteps would not arouse the
house. It seemed to them both that it was midnight, but time had moved slowly, and when the
spent, broken woman crept into the house, and groped her way to her room, she did not make
a light, but slipped into bed without looking at her scarred, shameful face.

CHAPTER XVIII

In the sunshine of that era of world-wide prosperity in the eighties, John Barclay made much
hay. He spent little time in Sycamore Ridge, and his private car might be found in Minnesota
to-day and at the end of the week in California. As president of the Corn Belt Road and as
controlling director in the North Lake Line, he got rates on other railroads for his grain
products that no competitor could duplicate. And when a competitor began to grow beyond the
small fry class, Barclay either bought him out or built a mill beside the offender and crushed
him out. Experts taught him the value of the chaff from the grain. He had a dozen mills to
which he shipped the refuse from his flour and heaven only knows what else, and turned the
stuff into various pancake flours and breakfast foods. He spent hundreds of thousands of dollars
in advertising--in a day when large appropriations for advertising were unusual. And the words
"Barclay's Best" glared at the traveller from crags in the Rocky Mountains and from the piers
of all the great harbour bridges. He used Niagara to glorify the name of Barclay, and "Use
Barclay's Best" had to be washed off the statue of the Goddess of Liberty in New York Harbour.
The greenish brown eyes of the little man were forever looking into space, and when he caught
a dream, instead of letting it go, he called a stenographer and made it come true. In those
days he was beginning to realize that an idea plus a million dollars will become a fact if
a man but says the word, whereas the same idea minus a million remains a dream. The great power
of money was slowly becoming part of the man's consciousness. During the years that were to
come, he came to think that there was nothing impossible. Any wish he had might be gratified.
Such a consciousness drives men mad.

But in those prosperous days, while the millions were piling up, Barclay kept his head. All
the world was buying then, but wherever he could Barclay sold. He bought only where he had
to, and paid cash for what he bought. He did not owe a dollar for anything. He had no equities;
his titles were all good. And as he neared his forties he believed that he could sell what
he had at forced sale for many millions. He was supposed to be much richer than he was, but
the one thing that he knew about it was that scores of other men had more than he. So he kept
staring into space and pressing the button for his stenographer, and at night wherever his
work found him, whether in Boston or in Chicago or in San Francisco, he hunted up the place
where he could hear the best music, and sat listening with his eyes closed. He always kept
his note-book in his hand, when Jane was not with him, and when an idea came to him inspired
by the music, he jotted it down, and the next day, if it stood the test of a night's sleep,
he turned the idea into an event.

In planning his work he was ruthless. He learned that by bribing men in the operating department
of any railroad he could find out what his competitors were doing. And in the main offices
of the National Provisions Company two rooms full of clerks were devoted to considering the
duplicate way-bills of every car of flour or grain or grain product not shipped by the Barclay
companies. Thus he was able to delay the cars of his competitors, and get his own cars through
on time. Thus he was able to bribe buyers in wholesale establishments to push his products.
And with Lige Bemis manipulating the railroad and judiciary committees in the legislatures
of ten states, no laws were enacted which might hamper Barclay's activities.

"Do you know, Lucy," said General Ward to his wife one night when they were discussing Barclay
and his ways and works, "sometimes I think that what that boy saw at Wilson's Creek,--the horrible
bloodshed, the deadly spectacle of human suffering at the hospital wagon, some way blinded
his soul's eye to right and wrong. It was all a man could stand; the picture must have seared
the boy's heart like a fire."

Mrs. Ward, who was mending little clothes in the light of the dining-room lamp, put down her
work a moment and said: "I have always thought the colonel had some such idea. For once when
he was speaking of the way John stole that wheat land, he said, 'Well, poor John, he got a
wound at Wilson's Creek that never will heal,' and when I asked if he meant his foot, the colonel
smiled like a woman and said gently, 'No, Miss Lucy, not there--not there at all; in his heart,
my dear, in his heart!'"

And the general's eyes met the eyes of a mother wandering toward a boy of nine sleeping, tired
out, on a couch near by; he was a little boy with dark hair, and red tanned cheeks, and his
mouth--such a soft innocent mouth--curved prettily, like the lips of children in old pictures,
and as he slept he smiled, and the general, meeting the mother's eyes coming back from the
little face, wiped his glasses and nodded his head in understanding; in a moment they both
rose and stood hand in hand over their child, and the mother said in a trembling voice, "And
his mother prayed for him, too--she has told me so--so many times."

But the people of Sycamore Ridge and of the Mississippi Valley did not indulge in any fine
speculations upon the meaning of life when they thought of John Barclay. He had become considerable
of a figure in the world, and the Middle West was proud of him. For those were the days of
tin cornices, false fronts, vain pretences, and borrowed plumes bought with borrowed money.
Other people's capital was easy to get, and every one was rich. Debt was regarded as an evidence
of prosperity, and the town ran mad with the rest of the country. It is not strange then that
Mrs. Watts McHurdie, she who for four years during the war dispensed "beefsteak--ham and eggs--breakfast
bacon--tea--coffee--iced tea--or--milk" at the Thayer House, and for ten years thereafter sold
dry-goods and kept books at Dorman's store, should have become tainted with the infection of
the times. But it is strange that she could have inoculated so sane a little man as Watts.
Still, there were Delilah and Samson, and of course Samson was a much larger man than Watts,
and Nellie McHurdie was considerably larger than Delilah; and you never can tell about those
things, anyway. Also it must not be forgotten that Nellie McHurdie since her marriage had become
Grand Preceptress in one lodge, Worthy Matron in another, Senior Vice Commander in a third,
and Worshipful Benefactress in a fourth, to say nothing of positions as corresponding secretary,
delegate to the state convention, Keeper of the Records and Seals, Scribe,--and perhaps Pharisee,--in
half a dozen others, all in the interests of her husband's political future; and with such
obvious devotion before him, it is small wonder after all that he succumbed.

But he would not run for office. He had trouble every spring persuading her, but he always
did persuade her, that this wasn't his year, that conditions were wrong, and that next year
probably would be better. But he allowed her to call their home "The Bivouac," and have the
name cut in stone letters on the horse-block; and he sat by meekly for many long years at lodges,
at church entertainments, at high school commencement exercises, at public gatherings of every
sort, and heard her sing a medley of American patriotic songs which wound up with the song
that made him famous. It was five drinks in Jake Dolan that stopped the medley, when the drinks
aforesaid inspired him to rise grandly from his chair at the front of the hall at an installation
of officers of Henry Schnitzler Post of the Grand Army, and stalk majestically out of the room,
while the singing was in progress, saying as he turned back at the door, before thumping heavily
down the stairs, "Well, I'm getting pretty damn tired of that!" Mrs. McHurdie insisted that
Watts should whip Dolan, and it is possible that at home that night Watts did smite his breast
and shake his head fiercely, for in the morning the neighbours saw Mrs. McHurdie walk to the
gate with him, talking earnestly and holding his arm as if to restrain him; moreover, when
Watts had turned the corner of Lincoln Avenue and had disappeared into Main Street, she hurried
over to the Culpeppers' to have the colonel warn Dolan that Watts was a dangerous man. But
when Dolan, sober, walked into the harness shop that afternoon to apologize, the little harness
maker came down the aisle of saddles in his shop blinking over his spectacles and with his
hand to his mouth to strangle a smile, and before Dolan could speak, Watts said, "So am I--Jake
Dolan--so am I; but if you ever do that again, I'll have to kill you."

It happened in the middle eighties--maybe a year before the college was opened--maybe a year
after, though Gabriel Carnine, talking of it some twenty years later, insists that it happened
two years after the opening of the college. But no one ever has mentioned the matter to Watts,
so the exact date may not be recorded, though it is an important date in the uses of this narrative,
as will be seen later. All agree--the colonel, the general, Dolan, Fernald, and perhaps two
dozen old soldiers who were at the railroad station waiting for the train to take them to the
National Encampment of the Grand Army of the Republic,--that it was a fine morning in September.
Of course John Barclay contributed the band. He afterwards confessed to that, explaining that
Nellie had told him that Watts never had received the attention he should receive either in
the town or the state or the nation, and so long as Watts was a National Delegate for the first
time in his life, and so long as she had twice been voted for as National President of the
Ladies' Aid, and might get it this time, the band would be, as she put it, "so nice to take
along"; and as John never forgot the fact that Nellie asked him to sing at her wedding, he
hired the band. Thus are we bound to our past. But the band was not what caused the comrades
to gasp, though its going was a surprise. And when they heard it turn into Main Street far
up by Lincoln Avenue, playing the good old tune that the town loved for Watts' sake and for
the sake of the time and the place and the heroic deeds it celebrated,--when they heard the
band, the colonel asked the general, "Where's Watts?" and they suspected that the band might
be bringing him to the depot.

Heaven knows the town had bought uniforms and new horns for the band often enough for it to
do something public-spirited once in a while without being paid for it. So the band did not
come to the town as a shock in and of itself. Neither for that matter did the hack--the new
glistening silver-mounted hack, with the bright spick-and-span hearse harness on the horses;
in those bustling days a quarter was nothing, and you can ride all over the Ridge for a quarter;
so when the comrades at the depot, in their blue soldiers' clothes their campaign hats, and
their delegates' badges, saw the band followed by the hack, they were of course interested,
but that was all. And when some of the far-sighted ones observed that the top of the hack was
spread back royally, they commented upon the display of pomp, but the comment was not extraordinary.
But when from the street as the band stopped, there came cheers from the people, the boys at
the station felt that something unusual was about to come to them. So they watched the band
march down the long sheet-iron-covered station walk, and the hack move along beside the band
boys; and the poet's comrades-in-arms saw him sitting beside the poet's wife,--the two in solemn
state. And then the old boys beheld Watts McHurdie,--little Watts McHurdie, with his grizzled
beard combed, with his gold-rimmed Sunday glasses far down on his nose so that he could see
over them, and--wonder of wonders, they saw a high shiny new silk hat wobbling over his modest
head.

He stumbled out of the open hack with his hand on the great stiff awkward thing, obviously
afraid it would fall off, and she that was Nellie Logan, late of the Thayer House and still
later of Dorman's store, and later still most worshipful, most potent, most gorgeous and most
radiant archangel of seven secret and mysterious covenants, conclaves, and inner temples, stood
beaming at the pitiful sight, clearly proud of her shameless achievement. Watts, putting his
hand to his mouth to cover his smile, grabbed the shiny thing again as he nodded cautiously
at the crowd. Then he followed her meekly to the women's waiting room, where the wives and
sisters of the comrades were assembled--and they, less punctilious than the men, burst forth
with a scream of joy, and the agony was over.

And thus Watts McHurdie went to his greatest earthly glory. The delegation from the Ridge,
with the band, had John Barclay's private car; that was another surprise which Mrs. McHurdie
arranged, and when they got to Washington, where the National Encampment was, opinions differ
as to when Watts McHurdie had his high tide of happiness. The colonel says that it was in the
great convention, where the Sycamore Ridge band sat in front of the stage, and where Watts
stood in front of the band and led the great throng,--beginning with his cracked little heady
tenor, and in an instant losing it in the awful diapason of ten thousand voices singing his
old song with him; and where, when it was over, General Grant came down the platform, making
his way rather clumsily among the chairs, and at last in front of the whole world grasped Watts
McHurdie's hands, and the two little men, embarrassed by the formality of it all, stood for
a few seconds looking at each other with tears glistening in their speaking eyes.

But Jake Dolan, who knows something of human nature, does not hold to the colonel's view about
the moment of McHurdie's greatest joy. "We were filing down the Avenue again, thousands and
ten thousands of us, as we filed past the White House nearly twenty years before. And the Sycamore
Ridge band was cramming its lungs into the old tune, when up on the reviewing stand, beside
all the big bugs and with the President there himself, stood little Watts, plug hat in hand,
bowing to the boys. 'Twas a lovely sight, and he had been there for two mortal hours before
we boys got down--there was the Kansas boys and the Iowa boys and some from Missouri, carrying
the old flag we fought under at Wilson's Creek. Watts saw us down the street and heard the
old band play; a dozen other bands had played that tune that day; but Billy Dorman's tuba had
its own kind of a rag in it, and Watts knew it. I seen him a-waving his hat at the boys, almost
as soon as they saw him, and as the band came nearer and nearer I saw the little man's face
begin to crack, and as he looked down the line and saw them Kansas and Iowa soldiers, I seen
him give one whoop, and throw that plug hat hellwards over the crowd and jump down from that
band stand like a wild man and make for the gang. He was blubbering like a calf when he caught
step with me, and he yelled so as to reach my ears above the roar of the crowds and the blatting
of the bands--yelled with his voice ripped to shreds that fluttered out ragged from the torn
bosom of him, 'Jake--Jake--how I would like to get drunk--just this once!' And we went on down
the avenue together--him bareheaded, hay-footing and straw-footing it the same as in the old days."

Jake always paused at this point and shook his head sorrowfully, and then continued dolefully:
"But 'twas no use; he was caught and took away; some says it was to see the pictures in the
White House, and some says it was to a reception given by the Relief Corps to the officers
elect of the Ladies' Aid, where he was pawed over by a lot of old girls who says, 'Yes, I'm
so glad--what name please--oh, --McHurdie, surely not the McHurdie; O dear me--Sister McIntire,
come right here, this is the McHurdie--you know I sang your song when I was a little girl'--which
was a lie, unless Watts wrote it for the Mexican War, and he didn't. And then some one else
comes waddling up and says, 'O dear me, Mr. McHurdie--you don't know how glad I am to see the
author of "Home, Sweet Home,"' and Watts blinks his eyes and pleads not guilty; and she says,
'O dear, excuse the mistake; well, I'm sure you wrote something?' And Watts, being sick of
love, as Solomon says in his justly celebrated and popular song, Watts looks through his Sunday
glasses and doesn't see a blame thing, and smiles and says calmly, 'No, madam, you mistake--I
am a simple harness maker.' And she sidles off looking puzzled, to make room for the one from
Massachusetts, who stares at him through her glasses and says, 'So you're Watts McHurdie--who
wrote the--' 'The same, madam,' says Watts, courting favour. 'Well,' says the high-browed one,
'well--you are not at all what I imagined.' And 'Neither are you, madam,' returns Watts, as
sweet as a dill pickle; and she goes away to think it over and wonder if he meant it that way.
No--that's where Nellie made her mistake. It wouldn't have hurt him--just once. But what's
done's done, and can't be undone, as the man said when he fished his wife out of the lard vat."

Now this all seems a long way from John Barclay--the hero of this romance. Yet the departure
of Watts McHurdie for his scene of glory was on the same day that a most important thing happened
in the lives of Bob Hendricks and Molly Brownwell. That day Bob Hendricks walked one end of
the station platform alone. The east-bound train was half an hour late, and while the veterans
were teasing Watts and the women railing at Mrs. McHurdie, Hendricks discovered that it was
one hundred and seventy-eight steps from one end of the walk to the other, and that to go entirely
around the building made the distance fifty-four steps more. It was almost train time before
Adrian Brownwell arrived. When the dapper little chap came with his bright crimson carnation,
and his flashing red necktie, and his inveterate gloves and cane, Hendricks came only close
enough to him to smell the perfume on the man's clothes, and to nod to him. But when Hendricks
found that the man was going with the Culpeppers as far as Cleveland, as he told the entire
depot platform, "to report the trip," Hendricks sat on a baggage truck beside the depot, and
considered many things. As he was sitting there Dolan came up, out of breath, and fearful he
should be late.

"How long will you be gone, Jake?" asked Hendricks.

"The matter of a week or ten days, maybe," answered Dolan.

"Well, Jake," said Hendricks, looking at Dolan with serious eyes, yet rather abstractedly,
"I am thinking of taking a long trip--to be gone a long time--I don't know exactly how long.
I may not go at all--I haven't said anything to the boys in the store or the bank or out at
the shop about it; it isn't altogether settled--as yet." He paused while a switch engine clanged
by and the crowd surged out of the depot, and ebbed back again into their seats. "Did you deliver
my note this morning?"

"Yes," replied Dolan, "just as you said. That's what made me a little late."

"To the lady herself?"

"To the lady herself," repeated Dolan.

"All right," acquiesced Hendricks. "Now, Jake, if I give it out that I'm going away on a trip,
there'll be a lot of pulling and hauling and fussing around in the bank and in the store and
at the shop and--every place, and then I may not go. So I've gone over every concern carefully
during the past week, and have set down what ought to be done in case I'm gone. I didn't tell
my sister even--she's so nervous. And, Jake, I won't tell any one. But if, when you get back
from Washington, I'm not here, I'm going to leave this key with you. Tell the boys at the bank
that it will open my tin box, and in the tin box they'll find some instructions about things."
He smiled, and Dolan assented. Hendricks uncoiled his legs from the truck, and began to get
down. "I won't mix up with the old folks, I guess, Jake. They have their own affairs, and I'm
tired. I worked all last night," he added. He held out his hand to Dolan and said, "Well, good-by,
Jake--have a good time."

The elder man had walked away a few steps when Hendricks called him back, and fumbling in his
pockets, said: "Well, Jake, I certainly am a fool; here--" he pulled an envelope marked "Dolan"
from his inside pocket--"Jake, I was in the bank this morning, and I found a picture for you.
Take it and have a good time. It's a long time till pension day--so long."

The Irishman peeped at the bill and grinned as he said, "Them holy pictures from the bank,
my boy, have powerful healing qualities." And he marched off with joy in his carriage.

Hendricks then resumed his tramp; up and down the long platform he went, stepping on cracks
one way, and avoiding cracks the next, thinking it all out. He tried to remember if he had
been unfair to any one; if he had left any ragged edges; if he had taken a penny more than
his honest due. The letter to the county treasurer, returning the money his father had taken,
was on top of the pile of papers in his tin box at the bank. He had finally concluded, that
when everything else was known, that would not add much to his disgrace. And then it would
be paid, and that page with the forged entry would not always be in his mind. There were deeds,
each witnessed by a different notary, so that the town would not gossip before he went, transferring
all of his real estate to his sister, and the stock he had sold to the bank was transferred,
and the records all in the box; then he went over the prices again at which he had disposed
of his holdings to the bank, and he was sure he had made good bargains in every case for the
bank. So it was all fair, he argued for the thousandth time--he was all square with the world.
He had left a deposit subject to his check of twenty thousand dollars--that ought to do until
they could get on their feet somewhere; and it was all his, he said to himself--all his, and
no one's business.

And when he thought of the other part, the voice of Adrian Brownwell saying, "Well, come on,
old lady, we must be going," rose in his consciousness. It was not so much Brownwell's words,
as his air of patronage and possession; it was cheerful enough, quite gay in fact, but Hendricks
asked himself a hundred times why the man didn't whistle for her, and clamp a steel collar
about her neck. He wondered cynically if at the bottom of Brownwell's heart, he would not rather
have the check for twelve thousand dollars which Hendricks had left for Colonel Culpepper,
to pay off the Brownwell note, than to have his wife. For seven years the colonel had been
cheerfully neglecting it, and now Hendricks knew that Adrian was troubling him about the old debt.

As he rounded the depot for the tenth time he got back to their last meeting. There stood General
Ward with his arm about the girlish waist of Mrs. Ward, the mother of seven. There was John
Barclay with Jane beside him, and they were holding hands like lovers. The Ward children were
running like rabbits over the broad lawn under the elms, and there, talking to the wide, wide
world, was Adrian Brownwell, propounding the philosophy of the Banner, and quoting from last
week's editorials. And there sat Bob and Molly by the flower bed that bordered the porch.

"I am going to the city to hear Gilmore," he said. That was simple enough, and her sigh had
no meaning either. It was just a weary little sigh, such as women sometimes bring forth when
they decide to say something else. So she had said: "I'll be all alone next week. I think I'll
visit Jane--if she's in town."

Then something throbbed in his brain and made him say:--

"So you'd like to hear Gilmore, too?"

She coloured and was silent, and the pulse of madness that was beating in her made her answer:--

"Oh--I can't--you know the folks are going to Washington to the encampment, and Adrian is going
as far as Cleveland with the delegation to write it up."

An impulse loosened his tongue, and he asked:--

"Why not? Come on. If you don't know any one up there, go to the Fifth Avenue; it's all right,
and I'll get tickets, and we'll go every night and both matinees. Come on!" he urged.

She was aflame and could not think. "Oh--don't, Bob, don't--not now. Please don't," she begged,
in as low a tone as she dared to use.

Adrian was thundering on about the tariff, and the general was wrangling with him. The Barclays
were talking to themselves, and the children were clattering about underfoot, and in the trees
overhead. Bob's eyes and Molly's met, and the man shuddered at what he saw of pathos and yearning,
and he said: "Well, why not? It's no worse to go than to want to go. What's wrong about it--Molly,
do you think--"

He did not finish the sentence, for Adrian had ceased talking, and Molly, seeing his jealous
eyes upon her, rose and moved away. But before they left that night she found occasion to say,
"I've been thinking about it, Bob, and maybe I will."

In the year that had passed since Hendricks had left her sobbing in the chair on the porch
of the Culpepper home, a current between them had been reëstablished, and was fed by the chance
passing in a store, a smile at a reception, a good morning on the street, and the current was
pulsing through their veins night and day. But that fine September morning, as she stood on
the veranda of her home with a dust-cap on her head, cleaning up the litter her parents had
made in packing, she was not ready for what rushed into her soul from the letter Dolan left
her, as he hurried away to overtake the band that was turning from Lincoln Avenue into Main
Street. She sat in a chair to read it, and for a moment after she had read it, she held it
open in her lap and gazed at the sunlight mottling the blue grass before her, through the elm
trees. Her lips were parted and her eyes wide, and she breathed slowly. The tune the band was
playing--McHurdie's song--sank into her memory there that day so that it always brought back
the mottled sunshine, the flowers blooming along the walk, and the song of a robin from a lilac
bush near by. She folded the letter carefully, and put it inside her dress, and then moving
mechanically, took it out and read it again:--

    "MY DARLING, MY DARLING: There is no use struggling any more. You
    must come. I will meet you in the city at the morning train, the one
    that leaves the Ridge here at 2.35 A.M. We can go to the parks
    to-morrow and be alone and talk it all out, before the concert--and
    then--oh, Molly, core of my soul, heart of my heart, why should we
    ever come back!                                           BOB."

All that she could feel as she sat there motionless was a crashing "no." The thing seemed to
drive her mad by its insistence--a horrible racking thing that all but shook her, and she chattered
at it: "Why not? Why not? Why not?" But the "no" kept roaring through her mind, and as she
heard the servant rattling the breakfast dishes in the house, the woman shivered out of sight
and ran to her room. She fell on her knees to pray, but all she could pray was, "O God, O God,
O God, help me!" and to that prayer, as she said it, the something in her heart kept gibbering,
"Why not? Why not? Why not?" From an old box hidden in a closet opening out of her mother's
room she took Bob Hendricks' picture,--the faded picture of a boy of twenty,--and holding it
close to her breast, stared open-lipped into the heart of an elm tree-top. The whistle of the
train brought her back to her real world. She rose and looked at herself in the mirror, at
the unromantic face with its lines showing faintly around her eyes, grown quiet during the
dozen years that had settled her fluffy hair into sedate waves. She smiled at the changes of
the years and shook her head, and got a grip on her normal consciousness, and after putting
away the picture and closing the box, she went downstairs to finish her work.

On the stairs she felt sure of herself, and set about to plan for the next day, and then the
tumult began, between the "no" and her soul. In a few minutes as she worked the "no" conquered,
and she said, "Bob's crazy." She repeated it many times, and found as she repeated it that
it was mechanical and that her soul was aching again. So the morning wore away; she gossiped
with the servant a moment; a neighbour came in on an errand; and she dressed to go down town.
As she went out of the gate, she wondered where she would be that hour the next day, and then
the struggle began again. Moreover, she bought some new gloves--travelling gloves to match
her gray dress.

In the afternoon she and Jane Barclay sat on the wide porch of the Barclay home. "Gilmore's
going to be in the city all this week," said Jane, biting a thread in her sewing.

"Is he?" replied Molly. "I should so like to hear him. It's so poky up at the house."

"Why don't you?" inquired Jane. "Get on the train and go on up."

"Do you suppose it would be all right?" replied Molly.

"Why, of course, girl! Aren't you a married woman of lawful age? I would if I wanted to."

There was a pause, and Molly replied thoughtfully, "I have half a notion to--really!"

But as she walked home, she decided not to do it. People from the Ridge might be there, and
they wouldn't understand, and her finger-tips chilled at the memory of Adrian Brownwell's jealous
eyes. So as she ate supper, she went over the dresses she had that were available. And at bedtime
she gave the whole plan up and went upstairs humming "Marguerite" as happily as the thrush
that sang in the lilacs that morning. As she undressed the note fell to the floor. When she
picked it up, the flash of passion came tearing through her heart, and the "no" crashed in
her ears again, and all the day's struggle was for nothing. So she went to bed, resolved not
to go. But she stared through the window into the night, and of a sudden a resolve came to
her to go, and have one fair day with Hendricks--to talk it all out forever, and then to come
home, and she rose from her bed and tiptoed through the house packing a valise. She left a
note in the kitchen for the servant, saying that she would be back for dinner the next evening,
and when she struck a match in the front hall to see what time it was, she found that it was
only one o'clock. For an hour she sat in the chill September air on the veranda, thinking it
all over--what she would say; how they would meet and part; and over and over again she told
herself that she was doing the sensible thing. As the clock struck two she picked up her valise--it
was heavier than she thought, and it occurred to her that she had put in many unnecessary things,
and that she had time to lighten it. But she stopped a moment only, and then walked to the
gate and down a side street to the station. It was 2.20 when she arrived, and the train was
marked on the blackboard by the ticket window on time. She kept telling herself that it was
best to have it out; that she would come right back; but she remembered her heavy valise, and
again the warning "no" roared through her soul. She walked up and down the long platform, and
felt the presence of Bob Hendricks strong and compelling; she knew he had been there that very
day, and wondered where he sat. Then she thought perhaps she would do better not to go. She
looked into the men's waiting room, and it was empty save for one man; his back was turned
to her, but she recognized Lige Bemis. A tremble of guilt racked and weakened her. And with
a thrill as of pain she heard the faint whistle of a train far up the valley. The man moved
about the room inside. Apparently he also heard the far-off whistle. She shrank around the
corner of the depot. But he caught sight of her dress, and slowly sauntered up and down the
platform until he passed near enough to her to identify her in the faint flicker of the gas.
He spoke, and she returned his greeting. The train whistled again--much nearer it seemed to
her, but still far away, and her soul and the "no" were grappling in a final contest. Suddenly
it came over her that she had not bought her ticket. Again the train whistled, and far up the
tracks she could see a speck of light. She hurried into the waiting room to buy the ticket.
The noise of the train was beginning to sound in her ears, She was frightened and nervous,
and she fumbled with her purse and valise. Nearer and nearer came the train, and the "no" fairly
screamed in her ears, and her face was pallid, with the black wrinkles standing out upon it
in the gaslight. The train was in the railroad yards, and the glare of the headlight was in
the waiting room. Bemis came in and saw her fumbling with her ticket, her pocket book, and
her valise.

"You'll have to hurry, Mrs. Brownwell, this is the limited--it only stops a minute. Let me
help you."

He picked up the valise and followed her from the room. The rush of the incoming train shattered
her nerves. They pulsed in fear of some dreadful thing, and in that moment she wondered whether
or not she would ever see it all again--the depot, the familiar street, the great mill looming
across the river, and the Barclay home half a mile above them. In a second she realized all
that her going meant, and the "no" screamed at her, and the "why not" answered feebly. But
she had gone too far, she said to herself. The engine was passing her, and Bemis was behind
her with the heavy valise. She wondered what he would say when Bob met her at the train in
the city. All this flashed across her mind in a second, and then she became conscious that
the rumbling thing in front of her was not the limited but a cattle train, and the sickening
odour from it made her faint. In the minute while it was rushing by at full speed she became
rigid, and then, taking her valise from the man behind her, turned and walked as fast as she
could up the hill, and when she turned the corner she tried to run. Her feet took her to the
Barclay home. She stood trembling in terror on the great wide porch and rang the bell. The
servant admitted the white-faced, shaking woman, and she ran to Jane Barclay's room.

"Oh, Jane," chattered Molly, "Jane, for God's love, Jane, hold me--hold me tight; don't let
me go. Don't!" She sank to the floor and put her face in Jane's lap and stuttered: "I--I--have
g-g-got to t-t-tell you, Jane. I've g-g-ot to t-t-t-ell you, J-J-Jane." And then she fell to
sobbing. "Hold me, don't let me go out there. When it whistles ag-g-gain h-h-hold me t-t-tight."

Jane Barclay's strong kind hands stroked the dishevelled hair of the trembling woman. And in
time she looked up and said quietly, "You know--you know, Jane, Bob and I--Bob and I were going
to run away!" Molly looked at Jane a fearful second with beseeching eyes, and then dropped
her head and fell to sobbing again, and lay with her face on the other woman's knees.

When she was quiet Jane said: "I wouldn't talk about it any more, dear--not now." She stroked
the hair and patted the face of the woman before her. "Shall we go to bed now, dear? Come right
in with me." And soon Molly rose, and her spent soul rested in peace. But they did not go to
bed. The dawn found the two women talking it out together--clear from the beginning.

And when the day came Molly Brownwell went to Jane Barclay's desk and wrote. And when Bob Hendricks
came home that night, his sister handed him a letter. It ran:--

    "MY DEAR BOB: I have thought it all out, dear; it wouldn't do at
    all. I went to the train, and something, I don't know what, caught
    me and dragged me over to Jane's. She was good--oh, so good. She
    knows; but it was better that she should than--the other way.

    "It will never do, Bob. We can't go back. The terrible something
    that I did stands irrevocably between us. The love that might have
    made both our lives radiant is broken, Bob--forever broken. And all
    the king's horses and all the king's men cannot ever put it together
    again. I know it now, and oh Bob, Bob, it makes me sadder than the
    pain of unsatisfied love in my heart.

    "It just can't be; nothing ever can make it as it was, and unless it
    could be that way--the boy and girl way, it would be something
    dreadful. We have missed the best in the world, Bob; we cannot enjoy
    the next best together. But apart, each doing his work in life as
    God wills it, we may find the next best, which is more than most
    people know.

    "I have found during this hour that I can pray again, Bob, and I am
    asking God always to let me hope for a heaven, into which I can
    bring a few little memories--of the time before you left me. Won't
    you bring yours there, too, dear? Until then--good-by.

                                                              "MOLLY."

The springs that move God's universe are hidden,--those that move the world of material things
and those that move the world of spiritual things, and make events creep out of the past into
the future so noiselessly that they seem born in the present. It is all a mystery, the half-stated
equation of life that we call the scheme of things. Only this is sure, that however remote,
however separated by time and space, the tragedy of life has its root in the weakness of men,
and of all the heart-breaking phantasms that move across the panorama of the day, somewhere
deep-rooted in our own souls' weakness is the ineradicable cause. Even God's mercy cannot separate
the punishment that follows sin, and perhaps it is the greatest mercy of His mercy that it
cannot do so. For when we leave this world, our books are clear. If our souls grow--we pay
the price in suffering; if they shrivel, we go into the next world, poorer for our pilgrimage.

So do not pity Molly Brownwell nor Robert Hendricks when you learn that as she left the station
at Sycamore Ridge that night, Lige Bemis went to a gas lamp and read the note from Robert Hendricks
that in her confusion she had dropped upon the floor. Only pity the miserable creature whose
soul was so dead in him that he could put that note away to bide his time. In this wide universe,
wherein we are growing slowly up to Godhood, only the poor leprous soul, whitened with malice
and hate, deserves the angels' tears. The rest of us,--weak, failing, frail, to whom life deals
its sorrows and its tears, its punishments and its anguish,--we leave this world nearer to
God than when we came here, and the journey, though long and hard, has been worth the while.

CHAPTER XIX

Back in the days when John Barclay had become powerful enough to increase the price of his
door strips to the railroad companies from five dollars to seven and a half, he had transferred
the business of the factory that made the strips from Hendricks' Exchange National to the new
Merchants' State Bank which Gabriel Carnine was establishing. For Carnine and Barclay were
more of a mind than were Barclay and Hendricks; Carnine was bent on getting rich, and he had
come to regard Barclay as the most remarkable man in the world. Hendricks, on the other hand,
knew Barclay to the core, and since the quarrel of the seventies, while they had maintained
business relations, they were merely getting along together. There were times when Barclay
felt uncomfortable, knowing that Hendricks knew much about his business, but the more Carnine
knew, the more praise Barclay had of him; and so, even though Jane kept her own account with
Hendricks, and though John himself kept a personal account with Hendricks, the Economy Door
Strip Company and the Golden Belt Wheat Company did business with Carnine, and Barclay became
a director of the Merchants' State Bank, and greatly increased its prestige thereby. And Bob
Hendricks sighed a sigh of relief, for he knew that he would never become John Barclay's fence
and be called upon to dispose of stolen goods. So Hendricks went his way with his eyes on a
level and his jaw squared with the world. And when he knew that Jane knew the secret of his
soul, about the only comfort he had in those black days was the exultation in his heart that
John--whatever he might know--could not turn it into cash at the Exchange National Bank.

As he walked alone under the stars that first night after Molly Brownwell's note came to him,
he saw his life as it was, with things squarely in their relations. Of course this light did
not stay with him always; at times in his loneliness the old cloud of wild yearning would come
over him, and he would rattle the bars of his madhouse until he could fight his way out to
the clean air of Heaven under the stars. And at such times he would elude Dolan, and walk far
away from the town in fields and meadows and woods struggling back to sanity--sometimes through
a long night. But as the years passed, this truth came to be a part of his consciousness--that
in some measure the thing we call custom, or law, or civilization, or society, with all its
faults, is the best that man, endowed as he is to-day, can establish, and that the highest
service one can pay to man or to God is found in conforming to the social compact, at whatever
cost of physical pain, or mental anguish, if the conformation does not require a moral breach.
That was the faith he lived by, that by service to his fellows and by sacrifice to whatever
was worthy in the social compact, he would find a growth of soul that would pay him, either
here or hereafter. So he lent money, and sold light, and traded in merchandise, and did a man's
work in politics--playing each game according to the rules.

But whatever came to him, whatever of honour or of influence, or of public respect, in his
own heart there was the cloud--he knew that he was a forger, and that once he had offered to
throw everything he had aside and take in return--But he was not candid enough even in his
own heart to finish the indictment. It made him flush with shame, and perhaps that was why
on his face there was often a curious self-deprecating smile--not of modesty, not of charity,
but the smile of the man who is looking at a passing show and knows that it is not real. As
he went into his forties, and the flux of his life hardened, he became a man of reserves--a
kind, quiet, strong man, charitable to a fault for the weaknesses of others, but a man who
rarely reflected his impulses, a listener in conversation, a dreamer amid the tumult of business,
whose success lay in his industry and caution, and who drew men to him not by what he promised,
but by the faith we chattering daws have in the man who looks on and smiles while we prattle.

His lank bones began to take on flesh, and his face rounded at the corners, and the eagerness
of youth passed from him. He always looked more of a man than John Barclay. For Barclay was
a man of enthusiasms, who occasionally liked to mouth a hard jaw-breaking "damn," and who followed
his instincts with womanly faith in them--so that he became known as a man of impulse. But
Hendricks' power was in repression, and in Sycamore Ridge they used to say that the only reason
why Bob Hendricks grew a mustache was to chew it when people expected him to talk. It wasn't
much of a mustache--a little blond fuzz about as heavy as his yellow eyebrows over his big
inquiring blue eyes, and he once told Dolan that he kept it for a danger signal. When he found
himself pulling at it, he knew he was nervous and should get out into the open. They tell a
story in the Ridge to the effect that Hendricks started to run to a fire, and caught himself
pulling at his mustache, and turned around and went out to the power-house instead.

It was the only anecdote ever told of Hendricks after he was forty--for he was not a man about
whom anecdotes would hang well, though the town is full of them about John Barclay. So Hendricks
lived a strong reticent man, who succeeded in business though he was honest, and who won in
politics by choosing his enemies from the kind of noisy men who make many mistakes, and let
every one know it. The time came when he did not avoid Molly Brownwell; she felt that he was
not afraid to see her in any circumstances, and that made her happy. Sometimes she went to
him in behalf of one of her father's charges,--some poor devil who could not pay his note at
the bank and keep the children in school, or some clerk or workman at the power-house who had
been discharged. At such times they talked the matter in hand over frankly, and it ended by
the man giving way to the woman, or showing her simply that she was wrong.

Only once in nearly a score of years did a personal word pass between them. She had come to
him for his signature to a petition for a pardon for a man whose family suffered while he was
in the penitentiary. Hendricks signed the paper and handed it back to her, and his blue eyes
were fixed impersonally upon her, and he smiled his curious, self-deprecatory smile and sighed,
"As we forgive our debtors." Then he reached for a paper in his desk and seemed oblivious to
her presence. No one else was near them, and the woman hesitated a moment before turning to
go and repeated, "Yes, Bob--as we forgive our debtors." She tried to show him the radiance
in her soul, but he did not look up and she went away. When she had gone, he pushed aside his
work and sat for a moment looking into the street; he began biting his mustache, and rose,
and went out of the bank and found some other work.

That night as Hendricks and Dolan walked over the town together, Dolan said: "Did you ever
know, Robert"--that was as near familiarity as the elder man came with Hendricks--"that Mart
Culpepper owed his son-in-law a lot of money?"

"Well," returned Hendricks, "he borrowed a lot fifteen years ago or such a matter; why?"

"Well," answered Dolan, "I served papers on Mart to-day in a suit for--I dunno, a lot of money--as
I remember it about fifteen thousand dollars. That seems like a good deal."

Hendricks grunted, and they walked on in silence. Hendricks knew from Brownwell's overdraft
that things were not going well with him, and he believed that matters must have reached a
painful crisis in the Culpepper family if Brownwell had brought suit against the colonel.

The next morning Colonel Martin Culpepper came into the bank. He had grown into a large gray
man--with gray hair, gray mustaches of undiminished size, and chin whiskers grayed and broadened
with the years. His fine black eyes were just beginning to lose their lustre, and the spring
was going out of his stride. As he came into the bank, Hendricks noticed that the colonel seemed
to shuffle just a little. He put out his fat hand, and said:--

"Robert, will you come into the back room with me a moment? It isn't business--I just want
to talk with you." He smiled apologetically and added, "Just troubles, Robert--just an old
man wants to talk to some one, in point of fact."

Hendricks followed the colonel into the directors' room, and without ceremony the colonel sank
heavily into a fat leather chair, facing the window, and Hendricks sat down facing the colonel.
The colonel looked at the floor and fumbled his triangular watch-charm a moment, and cleared
his throat, as he spoke, "I don't know just how to begin--to get at it--to proceed, as I may
say, Robert." Hendricks did not reply, and the colonel went on, "I just wanted to talk to some
one, that's all--to talk to you--just to you, sir, to be exact."

Hendricks looked kindly at the colonel, whose averted eyes made the younger man feel uncomfortable.
Then he said gently, "Well, Colonel, don't be backward about saying what you want to to me."
It was a long speech for Hendricks, and he felt it, and then qualified it with, "But, of course,
I don't want to urge you."

The colonel's face showed a flush of courage to Hendricks, but the courage passed, and there
was a silence, and then a little twitch under his eyes told Hendricks that the colonel was
contemplating a flank attack as he spoke, "Robert, may I ask you in confidence if Adrian Brownwell
is hard up?"

Hendricks believed the truth would bring matters to a head, and he answered, "Well, I shouldn't
wonder, Colonel."

"Very hard up?" pressed the colonel.

Hendricks remembered Brownwell's overdraft and half a dozen past due notes to cover other overdrafts
and answered, "Well, Colonel, not desperate, but you know the Index has been getting the best
of the Banner for two or three years."

There was a pause, and then the colonel blurted out, "Well, Bob, he's sued me."

"I knew that, Colonel," returned Hendricks, anxious to press the matter to its core. "Jake
told me yesterday."

"I was going to pay him; he's spoken about it several times--dunned me, sir, in point of fact,
off and on for several years. But he knew I was good for it. And now the little coward runs
off up to Chicago to attend the convention and sues me while he's gone. That's what I hate."
Hendricks could see that the object of the colonel's visit was still on his mind, and so he
left the way open for the colonel to talk. "You know how Mrs. Culpepper feels and how Molly
feels--disgraced, sir, humiliated, shamed, to be exact, sir, in front of the whole town. What
would you do, Robert? What can a man do in a time like this--I ask you, what can he do?"

"Well, I'd pay him, Colonel, if I were you," ventured the younger man.

The colonel straightened up and glared at Hendricks and exclaimed: "Bob Hendricks, do you think,
sir, that Martin Culpepper would rest for a minute, while he had a dollar to his name, or a
rag on his back, under the imputation of not paying a debt like that? It is paid, sir,--settled
in full this morning, sir. But what am I going to do about him, sir--the contemptible scamp
who publicly sued his own wife's father? That's what I came to you for, Robert. What am I going
to do?"

"It'll be forgotten in a week, Colonel--I wouldn't worry about it," answered Hendricks. "We
all have those little unpleasantnesses."

The colonel was silent for a time, and then he said: "Bob--" turning his eyes to meet Hendricks'
for the first time during their meeting--"that scoundrel said to me yesterday morning before
leaving, 'If I hadn't the misfortune of being your son-in-law, you wouldn't have the honour
of owing me this money.' Then he sneered at me--you know the supercilious way he has, the damn
miserable hound-pup way he has of grinning at you,--and says, 'I regarded it as a loan, even
though you seemed to regard it as a bargain.' And he whirled and left me." The colonel's voice
broke as he added: "In God's name, Bob, tell me--did I sell Molly? You know--you can tell me."

