Many years have passed since the death of Sir Walter Scott, and to the young readers of to-day
the time in which he lived may seem far away and indistinct. But every boy and girl can share
with him the pleasure that he felt, all his life, in stories of battle on sea and land, in
love tales of knights and ladies, in mysterious superstitions and in everything else that spurs
one on at the liveliest speed through the pages of a book. These interests and delights of
his boyhood he never outgrew. They kept him always young at heart and gave to his works a freshness
and brightness that few writers have been able to retain throughout their lives.

When he became laird of Abbotsford, the same sunny nature and kindly feeling for others that
had drawn about him many comrades in his schoolboy days, attracted to him crowds of visitors
who, though they intruded on his time, were received with generous courtesy. His tall, strongly
built figure was often the center of admiring groups of guests who explored with him the wonders
and beauties of Abbotsford, listening meanwhile to his humorous stories. At such times, with
his clear, wide-open blue eyes, and his pleasant smile lighting his somewhat heavy features,
he would have been called a handsome man. Of all who came to the home at Abbotsford, none were
more gladly received than the children of the tenants who lived in the little homes on the
estate. Each year, on the last morning in December, it was customary for them to pay a visit
of respect to the laird, and though they may not have known it, he found more pleasure in this
simple ceremony than in all the others of the Christmas season.

To these gentler qualities of his nature was joined not a little of the hardihood of the Scotch
heroes whose lives he has celebrated. The same "high spirit with which, in younger days," he
has written, "I used to enjoy a Tam-o'-Shanter ride through darkness, wind and rain, the boughs
groaning and cracking over my head, the good horse free to the road and impatient for home,
and feeling the weather as little as I did," was that which bore him bravely through misfortune
and gave him the splendid courage with which in his last years he faced the ruin of his fortune.
With an influence as strong and wholesome as that of his works as a writer, remains the example
of his loyal, industrious life.

THE TOURNAMENT

By SIR WALTER SCOTT

     NOTE.--Scott's Ivanhoe, from which this account of The
     Tournament is taken, belongs to the class of books known as
     historical novels. Such a book does not necessarily have as the
     center of its plot an historical incident, nor does it necessarily
     have an historical character as hero or heroine; it does, however,
     introduce historic scenes or historic people, or both. In
     Ivanhoe, the events of which take place in England in the twelfth
     century, during the reign of Richard I, both the king and his
     brother John appear, though they are by no means the chief
     characters. The great movements known as the Crusades, while they
     are frequently mentioned and give a sort of an atmosphere to the
     book, do not influence the plot directly.

     Ivanhoe does much more, however, than introduce us casually to
     Richard and John; it gives us a striking picture of customs and
     manners in the twelfth century. The story is not made to halt for
     long descriptions, but the events themselves and their settings are
     so brought before us that we have much clearer pictures of them
     than hours of reading in histories and encyclopedias could give us.
     This account of a tournament, for instance, while it lets us see
     all the gorgeousness that was a part of such pageants, does not
     fail to give us also the cruel, brutal side.

