That is well enough, but I did not suppose those snags were 900 feet high.  Still they were
a very fine show.  They stood boldly out by themselves, and made a fascinatingly odd spectacle.
But there was nothing about their appearance to suggest the heads of a hydra.  They looked
like a row of lofty slabs with their upper ends tapered to the shape of a carving-knife point;
in fact, the early voyager, ignorant of their great height, might have mistaken them for a
rusty old rank of piles that had sagged this way and that out of the perpendicular.

The Peninsula is lofty, rocky, and densely clothed with scrub, or brush, or both.  It is joined
to the main by a low neck.  At this junction was formerly a convict station called Port Arthur--a
place hard to escape from.  Behind it was the wilderness of scrub, in which a fugitive would
soon starve; in front was the narrow neck, with a cordon of chained dogs across it, and a line
of lanterns, and a fence of living guards, armed. We saw the place as we swept by--that is,
we had a glimpse of what we were told was the entrance to Port Arthur.  The glimpse was worth
something, as a remembrancer, but that was all.

The voyage thence up the Derwent Frith displays a grand succession of fairy visions, in its
entire length elsewhere unequaled.  In gliding over the deep blue sea studded with lovely islets
luxuriant to the water's edge, one is at a loss which scene to choose for contemplation and
to admire most.  When the Huon and Bruni have been passed, there seems no possible chance of
a rival; but suddenly Mount Wellington, massive and noble like his brother Etna, literally
heaves in sight, sternly guarded on either hand by Mounts Nelson and Rumney; presently we arrive
at Sullivan's Cove--Hobart!

It is an attractive town.  It sits on low hills that slope to the harbor --a harbor that looks
like a river, and is as smooth as one.  Its still surface is pictured with dainty reflections
of boats and grassy banks and luxuriant foliage.  Back of the town rise highlands that are
clothed in woodland loveliness, and over the way is that noble mountain, Wellington, a stately
bulk, a most majestic pile.  How beautiful is the whole region, for form, and grouping, and
opulence, and freshness of foliage, and variety of color, and grace and shapeliness of the
hills, the capes, the, promontories; and then, the splendor of the sunlight, the dim rich distances,
the charm of the water-glimpses!  And it was in this paradise that the yellow-liveried convicts
were landed, and the Corps-bandits quartered, and the wanton slaughter of the kangaroo-chasing
black innocents consummated on that autumn day in May, in the brutish old time. It was all
out of keeping with the place, a sort of bringing of heaven and hell together.

The remembrance of this paradise reminds me that it was at Hobart that we struck the head of
the procession of Junior Englands.  We were to encounter other sections of it in New Zealand,
presently, and others later in Natal.  Wherever the exiled Englishman can find in his new home
resemblances to his old one, he is touched to the marrow of his being; the love that is in
his heart inspires his imagination, and these allied forces transfigure those resemblances
into authentic duplicates of the revered originals.  It is beautiful, the feeling which works
this enchantment, and it compels one's homage; compels it, and also compels one's assent--compels
it always--even when, as happens sometimes, one does not see the resemblances as clearly as
does the exile who is pointing them out.

