'My dear Erskine,' I cried, 'not understand it!  Why, I feel as if I had invented it.  Surely
my letter shows you that I not merely went into the whole matter, but that I contributed proofs
of every kind. The one flaw in the theory is that it presupposes the existence of the person
whose existence is the subject of dispute.  If we grant that there was in Shakespeare's company
a young actor of the name of Willie Hughes, it is not difficult to make him the object of the
Sonnets.  But as we know that there was no actor of this name in the company of the Globe Theatre,
it is idle to pursue the investigation further.'

'But that is exactly what we don't know,' said Erskine.  'It is quite true that his name does
not occur in the list given in the first folio; but, as Cyril pointed out, that is rather a
proof in favour of the existence of Willie Hughes than against it, if we remember his treacherous
desertion of Shakespeare for a rival dramatist.'

We argued the matter over for hours, but nothing that I could say could make Erskine surrender
his faith in Cyril Graham's interpretation.  He told me that he intended to devote his life
to proving the theory, and that he was determined to do justice to Cyril Graham's memory. 
I entreated him, laughed at him, begged of him, but it was of no use.  Finally we parted, not
exactly in anger, but certainly with a shadow between us.  He thought me shallow, I thought
him foolish.  When I called on him again his servant told me that he had gone to Germany.

Two years afterwards, as I was going into my club, the hall-porter handed me a letter with
a foreign postmark.  It was from Erskine, and written at the Hotel d'Angleterre, Cannes.  When
I had read it I was filled with horror, though I did not quite believe that he would be so
mad as to carry his resolve into execution.  The gist of the letter was that he had tried in
every way to verify the Willie Hughes theory, and had failed, and that as Cyril Graham had
given his life for this theory, he himself had determined to give his own life also to the
same cause.  The concluding words of the letter were these:  'I still believe in Willie Hughes;
and by the time you receive this, I shall have died by my own hand for Willie Hughes's sake:
for his sake, and for the sake of Cyril Graham, whom I drove to his death by my shallow scepticism
and ignorant lack of faith. The truth was once revealed to you, and you rejected it.  It comes
to you now stained with the blood of two lives,--do not turn away from it.'

It was a horrible moment.  I felt sick with misery, and yet I could not believe it.  To die
for one's theological beliefs is the worst use a man can make of his life, but to die for a
literary theory! It seemed impossible.

I looked at the date.  The letter was a week old.  Some unfortunate chance had prevented my
going to the club for several days, or I might have got it in time to save him.  Perhaps it
was not too late. I drove off to my rooms, packed up my things, and started by the night-mail
from Charing Cross.  The journey was intolerable.  I thought I would never arrive.  As soon
as I did I drove to the Hotel l'Angleterre.  They told me that Erskine had been buried two
days before in the English cemetery.  There was something horribly grotesque about the whole
tragedy.  I said all kinds of wild things, and the people in the hall looked curiously at me.

Suddenly Lady Erskine, in deep mourning, passed across the vestibule.  When she saw me she
came up to me, murmured something about her poor son, and burst into tears.  I led her into
her sitting-room.  An elderly gentleman was there waiting for her.  It was the English doctor.

