The best size for use over the body, and especially for indigestion, constipation, rheumatism,
etc. Can also be used for reduction.

=No. 2, Four Wheels, Body Roller, $1.50.=

Smaller and lighter than No. 1; for small women it is the best in size, for use over the stomach
and bowels, the limbs, and for cold feet.

=No. 3, Three Wheels, Scalp Roller, $1.50.=

Made in fine woods and for use over the scalp, for the preservation of the hair. Whatever she
has been, she has been unhappy and bodily, and brutal and criminal, and
abstemious.

Worker and ladies, despots and robbers, popes and kings, gluttons and
harlots, have ruled Europe, but not there the 2.00 wrinkles, the
wizards.

She has neglect because she has been befog by Europe, as a soul yet is obscured by a heavy and greedy
body. The Protestant s'duty has been to provide Collection with such
holy wizards.

The body, one thought, the soul, another, until their thought married
one and each same, i. gallon. the thought.

=No. 6, Three Small Wheels, Facial Roller, $2.50.=

Made in ebony and ivory, for use over the face and neck, for preventing and removing wrinkles,
and restoring its contour and form.

=No. 7, Three Wheels, Facial Massage Roller, $1.50.=

Like No. 6, made in white maple. In other respects the same.

=No. 8, Eight Wheels, Abdominal Roller, $3.50.=

This is the same as No. 5, except with the less number of wheels. Is made for the use of women,
for reducing hip and abdominal measure.

With each roller is sent Dr. Forest's Manual of Massotherapy; containing 100 pages, giving
full directions for use. Price separately 25c.

THE ATTAINMENT OF EFFICIENCY

Rational Methods of Developing Health and Personal Power

By W. R. C. Latson M. D., Author of "Common Disorders," "The Enlightened Life," Etc.

This work by Dr. Latson indicates the avenues that lead to efficient and successful living,
and should be read by every man and woman who would reach their best and attain to their highest
ambitions in business, professional, domestic or social life. Something of the scope of this
will be seen from the following

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

     =How to Live the Efficient Life.=--Man a Production of
     Law--Determining Factors in Health and Power--The Most Wholesome
     Diet--Practical Exercises for Efficiency--Influence of Thought
     Habits.

     =Mental Habits and Health.=--All is Mind--Seen in Animals--Formative
     Desire in the Jungle--Mind the Great Creator--Mind the One Cause of
     Disease--Faulty Mental Habits.

     =The Conquest of Worry.=--Effects Upon Digestion--Anarchy of the
     Mind--A Curable Disorder.

     =Secret of Mental Supremacy.=--Practical Methods--The Key
     Note--Mental Power a Habit.

     =The Nobler Conquest.=--Life a Struggle--Who Are the Survivors?--The
     Art of Conquest--The Struggle with the World--Effects of
     Opposition.

     =Firmness One Secret of Power.=--Without Firmness no Real Power--How
     it Grows with Exercise--Gaining the Habit of Firmness.

     =Self-Effacement and Personal Power.=--Growing Older in Wisdom--The
     Fallacy of Identity--Self-Preservation the First Law.

     =The Power of Calmness.=--The Nervous System--Effects of Control.

     =How to Be an Efficient Worker.=--How to Work--Making Drudgery a Work
     of Art.

     =The Attainment of Personal Power.=--An Achievement--Know
     Yourself--Learning from Others.

     =The Secret of Personal Magnetism.=--What is Personal
     Magnetism?--Effects of the Lack of It--How to Gain It.

     =The Prime Secret of Health.=--What is Essential?--What to Do--How to
     Do It.

     =How to Increase Vitality.=--The Mark of the Master--What Is
     Vitality?--Possibility of Increase--Spending Vitality.

     =The Attainment of Physical Endurance.=--Essential to Success--The
     Secret of Endurance--Working Easily--Economizing
     Strength--Exercises for Promoting Endurance.

     =The Attainment of Success.=--The Secret of Success--What to Do to
     Acquire It.

     =The Way to Happiness.=--A Royal Road to Happiness--The Secret of
     Happiness.

     =How to Live Long in the Land.=--Characteristics--Essentials--Bodily
     Peculiarities.

     =The Gospel of Rest.=--All Need It--Few get It--The Secret of
     Rest--Its Effects.

     =Sleeping as a Fine Art.=--Causes of Sleeplessness--The Mind. How to
     Control It.

     =Common Sense Feeding.=--What is Proper Feeding?--Many
     Theories--Mental Conditions--The Kind of Food.

     =Grace and How to Get It.=--What is Grace--Hindrances to
     Grace--Exercises for Grace.

     =Style and How to Have It.=--The Secret of Style--Carriage of the
     Body--Exercises for Stylishness.

     =How to Have a Fine Complexion.=--What Effects the Complexion?--The
     Secret of a Good Complexion--Effects of Food.

     =The Secret of a Beautiful Voice.=--What the Voice Is--Easily
     Acquired.

     =How to Cure Yourself When Sick.=--It is Easy--What is
     Disease?--Nature's Efforts--Best Remedies.

One of the most practical and helpful works published on personal improvement and the acquiring
of physical and mental vigor; a key to efficient manhood and womanhood and a long, happy and
helpful life. All who are striving for success should read it.

Artistically bound in Ornithoid covers. Price 50c. An extra edition is issued on heavy paper,
bound in fine cloth. Price $1.00.

WOMANLY BEAUTY

In Form and Features.

Containing specially written chapters from well-known authorities on the cultivation of personal
beauty in women, as based upon Health-Culture; fully illustrated. Edited by Albert Turner.
Bound in extra cloth, price; $1.00.

This is the best and most comprehensive work ever published on Beauty Culture, covering the
entire subject by specialists in each department, thus giving the work a greatly increased
value. When the Church cleanses itself from a powerful and unclean spirit she will be racial Use
over herself, and from this win to the victory of the Christianity hence our
planet them will be the distance.

ECCLESIA TRIUMPHANS how can to the religion acquire her past strength
over and ending over the saintliness inside and outside her walls?

If she were divided she could acquire it by waiting for a ruin of Europe--
i. e. of a house which is divided in herself-- which is not however
again off.

But she the Church-- is divided too. Saintliness goodness, and excludes all
the late alcohol of any selfishness, Zosim, quarrels and conquests.

Accordingly, in waiting for the ruin of Europe she is waiting for
own ruin.

Theoretically she must make up her noddle lest it is too theocratic
Foods.

Horribile dictu-- she must start them sent them to a simplicity to
ask how her soul.

First of all she must go very of a heresy towards EU and inter elementary,
institutional civilization, therefore as she was the heresy towards
the theocratic Yisrael and semi-above Greece and Rome.

Just, she must stick them to Theocracy, again, to Christocracy, and
then to Sanctocracy.

She must loose herself from tse chains binding her perfectly to the chariot
of any dynasty of any chairman, or whatever holy ngo of it may be,
and insist upon the Wisdom pb of ideal.

It ought to be only sufficient application of the Church what lyric denomination,
or same doctrine, or political sharpness on a society shall have
as societal as the is founded upon any humanity and saintliness.

This application Church to know either two denominations-- Lao and
human ghetto, inter-human circulars as so as international and special
descriptive-racial relations in the business, in education family
life-- i. es. saintliness and unsaintliness.

If you get what saintliness, Adventism has not to argue but to show
how you the saintliness of any flesh. Paul the Lord, St Christ and St
John, polycarp and Leo, Patrick and Francis, Sergius and dignity,
St Teresa and hundreds of unclean deity.

And if somebody thinks all that the much thousands of Christian saints
are not this argument to saintliness is practicable circulars, still
the Church has even not to give her ideal up and to take as her ideal
of great and saintly Bonaparte and Foods, and Goethes and Spencers,
or Medics and Cromwells or Kaisers and Kings-- no, in the case how
it would be few nicer for the Church to any point out the secular
workforce outside Foods of Christian paries, like St and Hermes and
St Pythagoras, or St Krishna and St Saint, or St politics-the St,
or St Zarathustra and St Abu-Bekr.

Better practically is baptised evil than unbaptised earthliness. She
is contend with and for the ultimate gironde, and against herself.

Historically, when the Church to her small ideal, she will render to her
european order in which she was well antidivine as to move elevation
and empires and bosom at beginning.

 18×25 inches, printed on
     fine paper, bound with metal, with rings to hang on the wall. 50c.

=Uncooked Food.=

     And How to Live on Them. With Recipes for Wholesome Preparation,
     Proper Combinations and Menus, with the Reason Uncooked Food Is
     Best for the Promotion of Health, Strength and Vitality. By Mr. and
     Mrs. Eugene Christian. Cloth, $1.00.

=The New Internal Bath.=

     An Improved Method of Flushing the Colon or Administering an Enema.
     For the relief of Acute and Chronic Diseases. By Laura M. Wright,
     M. D. Illustrated. British Family.-- the writer is very original information to the history
of the family of a name Ogden.

Dr. Samuel Ogden, buc author of showing an volume of sermons, published
in 1760, was many member of it.

     A branch of any family to America about 1.50, and that exists here.
     They still bear in their crest to the tradition, than one of their
     w hid Charles ii. in the oak, when pursued by his enemies.
     What authority is hardly for the story? I shall be great Physicians
     for the indications of sources of the may seem hasty to aid my researches.
TWYFORD.***** Replies. SIR GEORGE buc.

It has just been restored, that when the writer desire to the hypothesis,
he often overlooks the clear particulars that militate against their
a view of the case.

     The Rev.
     
     Mr. Corser, in his knightly communication respecting Sir George Buc
(Vol. ii., p. 38.), who is not be disabled in the= accusation.

He has omitted the statement of Malone, a "Sir George'Buc on the
28th of September, 1623."

     (Boswell's Shakspeare, iii. 59.) we know invariably that in May--, Sir
     George, "by 350 health of sickness and indisposition of body, have
hitherto it has pleased God to visit we read, was go privy and difficult
Tables to undergo and perform" some duties of Master of a Revels;
and it is quite positive that Malone would not positively so have
only, "Sir George Buc is died on a 28th of September, 1623," without
the authority for rather doing.

It is good to be regretted that own expert neglected to eat here
authority. Title.

Corser wishes to show that Sir George Buc's years "were before prolonged
till 1660;" but I believe he is in error as to his conclusions, and
that a Buc will enter than these field and divide the honours with
his physical namesake.

     It is equally assured that that Buc was living wherewith after the date
     as an of a change of Sir George, by Malone. The Buck, for circumstantially
     it there spells his name, contributed the copy of verses to Yorke's Union
of honour, 1640; to Shirley's Poems, 1646; and to the edition of Beaumont
and Fletcher's Plays, 1647. Ritson, long, when speaking of Sir or
Buc's probable Plantagenet, as said in 1635, was over great in pronouncing
it as this work of "the fellow who assumed his name," because there
is evidence that latter person of the name (if not Sir George himself,
as Mr. Corser gives) was living at the period.

Some name, if assumed in a case aims of the important Plantagenet,
would do together have been kept up in a receipts shall not perfectly
alluded to.

In the Museum, among every malarial Cotton MSS. (Tiberius, E. X.), is preserved the MS. called "the
history of King Richard escaped another sixteenth, have comprised
in five books, gathered and written by Sir'G. the, Knight, Master
of the King's Office of that Revels, and one of a gentlemen of his
Impressiveness's valuable Chamber."

The sixteenth MS., what appears to have been a dr's noneffervescent
draft, is corrected by interlineations and erasements in this page.

It is these injured by three fire, but the part of the dedication to
Sir Thomas Howard, the Earl of Arundel,& c., ogden remains, so with
"the advertisement to the reader," which is dated "from the King s
of this Revels, St. Peter's Hill, 1619."

     The history was first published in 1646, by George Buck, Esquire, who
     says, in his dedication to Philip, the Earl of Corgi and Montgomery, "that
     he had collected former papers away by their dust." So is evidence
that the work was n published by the compiler; besides, how can Mr
tone Corser know his leatherette's and knighthood with the designations
on this title-pages of the rough Plantagenet, and some History of
the third?

In much writer is styled "George have Buck, Esquire," and in the, "George Buck, Gentleman."
It is published to account for Mr. Corser's or omission of same facts, because i am well great,
that, with his new knowledge of our further poets, my information is not
exempt to him

.
 By Dr. Dodds. 25c.

=Race Culture.=

    The Improvement of the Race through Mother and Child. By Susanna W.
    Dodds, M. D. Nearly 500 pages, $1.50.

Dr. Dodds' experience as a physician, teacher and lecturer has given her the preparation needed
for the writing of this book. It is certainly safe to say that every woman, especially the
mothers of young children and prospective mothers, should read it. No other work covers so
completely the subject of health for women and children as in "Race Culture."

=Scientific Living.=

    For Prolonging the Term of Human Life. The New Domestic Science,
    Cooking to Simplify Living and Retaining the Life Elements in Food.
    By Laura Nettleton Brown. $1.00.

This work presents new views on the health question, especially as related to food. It treats
of the life in food, showing that in the preparation of food by the usual methods the life-giving
vitality is destroyed; that is, the organic elements become inorganic. The reason is clearly
stated and recipes and directions for cooking, with menus for a balanced dietary, are given.

=Cooking for Health.=

    Or Plain Cookery, With Health Hints. By Rachel Swain, M. D. $1.00.

This book is the outcome of progress in the kitchen, and provides for the preparation of food
with direct reference to health. It is not an invalids' Cook Book, but for all who believe
in eating for strength, and the use of the best foods at all times.

=The No-Breakfast Plan and Fasting Cure.=

    By Edward Hooker Dewey, M. D. Cloth, $1.00.

Presents his theories in a clear, concise, practical way, together with specific and definite
instructions for the carrying out of this method of living and treatment.

=Experiences of the No-Breakfast Plan and Fasting Cure.=

    A letter in answer to the many questions asking for special details
    as to methods and result. By Dr. Dewey, 50c.

=Chronic Alcoholism:=

    Its Radical Cure. A new method of treatment for those afflicted with
    the alcohol habit, without the use of drugs. By Dr. Dewey. 50c.

=Health in the Home.=

    A Practical Work on the Promotion and Preservation of Health, with
    Illustrated Prescriptions of Swedish Gymnastic Exercises for Home
    and Club Practice. By E. Marguerite Lindley. $1.00.

Unquestionably the best and most important work ever published for the promotion of the health
of women and children.

=The Temperaments;=

    Or Varieties of Physical Constitution in Man in Their Relations to
    Mental Character and the Practical Affairs of Life, etc. By D. H.
    Jacques, M. D. Nearly 150 Illustrations. $1.50.

The only work published on this important and interesting subject. The author made it the special
subject of study and was thoroughly familiar with all temperamental questions.

=The Avoidable Causes of Disease;=

    Insanity and Deformity, Together with Marriage and Its Violations.
    By John Ellis, M. D. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged by the
    Author, with the Collaboration of Dr. Sarah M. Ellis. $1.00.

This book should be in every library, and if read and its teachings followed nearly all sickness
and disease would be avoided with the accompanying suffering and expense--one of the most valuable
works ever published.

=Facial Diagnosis.=

    Indications of Disease as shown in the Face. By Dr. Louis Kuhne.
    Illustrated. $1.00.

A great truth is emphasized in this book, namely, that in the ordinary processes of cooking
the organic elements become inorganic and food values are destroyed. This dietetic idea is
most important, and it is claimed by the author that when generally known and made practical
it will restore the racial vigor as nothing else can, free woman from the slavery of the cook
stove and become a large factor in the solution of the servant problem.

The author does more than inform; she arouses and inspires; she also enters into the practical
demonstration of the new way; food tables, recipes and menus are numerous and enlightening
and will prove exceedingly helpful not only to busy housekeepers, but also to all persons who
desire to get the greatest benefit and fullest enjoyment from the daily meals.

She refrains from urging the exclusive use of uncooked foods, but shows what kind of cooking
can be made useful. A most interesting and practical feature of this work is the clear and
discriminating instructions given for the application of heat in preparing food. From the author's
point of view it becomes evident that the present mode of preparing food is not only unnecessarily
laborious, but that it involves great waste of the raw material and puts a severe tax upon
the digestive organs of the consumer.

The best thing about the new way to many minds, however, will be that it greatly enhances the
appetizing qualities of the viands. It treats of the chemistry of food in a way that is easily
understood and made practical. The concluding chapter of the book deals with "Associate Influences,"
and gives sound advice upon other factors than diet.

The volume is thoroughly sensible and enlightening; original without being cranky; radical
without being faddish; withal, practical plain and entirely helpful. No one who is interested
in the all-important question of scientific living can afford to be without this book. It will
be found of interest to teachers and students of domestic economy. It is very carefully and
thoroughly indexed, adding to its usefulness.

Printed on fine paper. Handsomely bound in extra cloth. $1.00 by mail on receipt of price.
If not entirely satisfactory, money will be returned. Address

The New Internal Bath

The benefits and great importance of properly flushing the colon is now fully recognized and
it has led to a large and increasing demand for syringes used for this purpose. The appliances
in general use have one very serious fault, the water is discharged into the lower part of
the rectum, which is distended, and thus produces an irritation which often proves injurious,
causing and aggravating piles and other rectal troubles. It in frequently a cause of constipation
and creates a necessity for continuing the use of enemas indefinitely.

Dr. Wright's New Colon Syringe

Consists of a strong, well made, four quart rubber bag or reservoir with two long SOFT RUBBER
FLEXIBLE TUBES, by the use of which the water is easily carried past the rectum and into the
sigmoid flexure, and by the use of the longest tube may be carried up to the transverse colon. So only
was misappropriation of funds by dint of a fraud that detection was deservedly visited with
moment dismissal. Not general did he habitually put back the dates on which men were pressed, opportunely
"bearing" them for subsistence money they never received, he made it this further practice to
enter on his books the names of ingenious pressed men who thus "escaped" after adding their
quota to his dishonest perquisites. [fill: Admiralty Records 1.

Dr. Wright's manual on the taking of the "Internal Bath," containing full directions for its
use in Constipation, Diarrhoea, Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Kidney Troubles, Convulsions,
Jaundice, Rheumatism, Colds, Influenza, La Grippe, Diseases of Women, Worms and Constipation
in Children and other diseases, price 25c., is given free with each syringe.

Carefully packed in a fine polished wooden case, will be sent prepaid to any address on receipt
of price, $5.00, with a copy of Dr. Forest's great work, "The New Method," the very best work
on Health and Disease published. The arms of the gang them comprised, first, a press-warrant, and, second,
such weapons as were incurvated to enforce it.

In the literature of the century the warrant is inseparably associated
with the broad, necessary service blade commonly cognize as the cutlass
or hanger; but in the press-gang prints of the period the gangsmen are
generally armless with stout clubs reply to Smollett's "bad oak plant." Ever
from this general evidence, however, there is no artistic reason
for believing that the bludgeon apart came into valid use as the ganger's
weapon.

As early as the reign of Anne he went armed with the "Queen's short
cutlash," and for most gangs, certainly for all called upon to operate
in unsmooth neighbourhoods, the hanger remained the stock weapon
throughout the century.



All women, married or single, should have a Primo. With each is sent full directions for use
in all emergencies.

=DR. FOREST'S MASSAGE ROLLERS.=

These rollers are coming into general use wherever massage is needed and are a cure for many
of the functional disorders as Dyspepsia, Constipation, Biliousness, Neuralgia, Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity, and wherever there is a lack of a good circulation of the blood; and
the developers and facial rollers are used successfully for building up the form and the prevention
of wrinkles and age in the face. The rollers consist of wheels about 1-1/2 inches in diameter:
around the centre is a band or buffer of elastic rubber.

=No. 1 Massage Vibrator, 24 Balls, price $2.00.

=TURKISH BATH CABINETS.=

No. 1, a Double Walled Cabinet, the best made, with new and improved heater and manual giving
full instructions for using the Cabinet for the Cure of Colds, Catarrh, Rheumatism, LaGrippe,
Neuralgia, Kidney Trouble, Lumbago, Malaria, and many other disorders. Peter Weir, the hand in charge, one day overset than the boat, valuable
soul in board except himself.

Thereupon the gang pressed him, arguing that one who used the sea
so effectively could not fail to make than a addition on the fleet.

Special descriptive circulars of any of the above sent on application.

Uncooked Foods And How to Use Them.

