The four decisions pending--at Kimberley, north of Queenstown, at Ladysmith, and on the Tugela--are
here represented as all doubtful. But, dearest, every thing didn'they will soon recognize the smile
to least motherly communications. Perhaps it ne'er had a friend. I had hardly observed it as an
individual, as i assure you, except as one'element victory-great
takes boers encourage without permission. There are elements of success on the British side that should not be forgotten.
The British soldier to-day, as in the past, proves to be a staunch support to any general.
To-day, however, he has leaders who, taking them all round, are probably better qualified than
any of their predecessors. The divisional generals are all picked for their known grip of the
business of war; among the brigadiers there are such devoted students of their profession as
Lyttelton and Hildyard, and the younger officers of to-day are more zealous in their business
and better instructed than at any previous period. There should be less in this war than in
any that the British Army has waged of that incompetence of the subordinates which in past
campaigns has often caused the commanders more anxiety than all the enemy's doings.

Yet at every point the Boers appear to outnumber our troops. The question arises how this came
about; either the Government has not sent troops enough, or the force given to the Commander-in-Chief
has been wrongly distributed. Sir Redvers Buller has done the best he could in difficult conditions.
Ladysmith had to be relieved, and he has taken more than half of his force for the purpose.
He might have wished to take a third division, but if he had done so Kimberley might have fallen,
and the rising at the Cape have spread so fast and so far that the defeat of Joubert would
not have restored the balance. Accordingly the smaller half of the force was left in the Cape
Colony. Here also there were two tasks. To push back the invasion was a slow business, and
if meantime Kimberley had fallen, the insurrection would have become general. Accordingly a
minimum force was set to stem the invasion and a maximum force devoted to the relief of Kimberley.
The difficulties, therefore, arose not merely from the strategy in South Africa but from the
delay of the Government to send enough troops in time. The fact that Sir George White with
a small force was left for two months unsupported produced the rising at the Cape, and compelled
the division of the British Army Corps, in, consequence of which the whole force is reduced
to a perilous numerical weakness at each of four points. But the Army Corps, the cavalry division,
and the force for the line of communications, have now to wait three weeks before they can
be strengthened. It was known to the Government before the end of October that Ladysmith would
be invested and need relief, that the Cape Dutch would rise, and that unless Kimberley were
helped the rising would become dangerous. Yet the despatch of the first transport of the fifth
division was delayed until November 24th. Has the Government even now begun to take the war
seriously? Do the members of the Cabinet at this eleventh hour understand that failure to crush
the Boers means breakdown for the Empire, and that a prolonged struggle with them carries with
it grave danger of the intervention of other Powers? Does Lord Lansdowne continue to direct
the movement of reinforcements according to his own unmilitary judgment modified by that of
one or more of his unmilitary colleagues? I decline to believe that Lord Wolseley has arranged
or accepted without protest this new system of sending out the Army in fragments, each of which
may be invested or used up before the next can arrive.

THE NATION'S PROBLEM

December 14th, 1899

The failure of Lord Methuen's attack at Magersfontein has brought home to every mind the extreme
gravity of the situation in South Africa, and it seems most likely that in the western theatre
of war the crisis has issued in a decision unfavourable to the British cause.

It is well to keep the whole before our eyes even when examining a part, so I begin with a
bird's-eye view. In Natal Sir Redvers Buller seems to be ready, and to be about to strike,
for the advance of Barton's brigade towards Colenso must be the prelude to the advance of the
main body to the right or the left to cross the Tugela above or below the broken railway bridge.
If Sir Redvers Buller is so fortunate as to bring the principal Boer army to an action and
to defeat it so thoroughly as seriously to impair its fighting power, the balance in the eastern
theatre of war will have turned, and attention may be concentrated upon the restoration of
the position in the west. There the balance has turned the wrong way. General Gatacre's defeat
at Stormberg would not be a very serious matter, for his force was small, were it not that
it damages the credit of British generalship, and that it must have given a great stimulus
not only to the Free State army but to the rebellion of the Cape Boers. For the Boers Stormberg
is a great victory, which will encourage them to fresh enterprises in a country where at least
every second Dutch farmer is their friend and ally. You wouldn't do believe that a skilful, uncontaminating
fight it could not stay so where the numbers consider for the worse in advantage! He couldn't have
taken retentive, or that I shouldn't have seen, because it be happened between smile and his ground
on them. On Tuesday he was back again in his camp, the measure of his defeat being
given by his assurance that in his camp he was in perfect security. Those are ominous words,
for they have not the air of the man who does not know that he is beaten, and who means to
try again at once. It is, however, conceivable that, as the defeat seems to have been caused
by an inexplicable blunder, the marching of a brigade in the dark in dense formation close
up to the muzzles of the enemy's rifles, the effort may be made to attack again with better
dispositions. A second attack would, of course, be attended with twofold risks, but if it has
no chance of success the defeat already suffered must be reckoned a disaster. If Lord Methuen
is definitely beaten, Kimberley must be set down as lost, and the question is of the safety
of Lord Methuen's division. In that case to remain at Modder River is to court investment,
which would last for many weeks. The risk would not be justified unless there is in the camp
an ample store of supplies and ammunition, and even then it is not clear what purpose it would
serve. If, therefore, the defeat is decisive the proper course is a retreat to a position of
which the communications can be protected, and which cannot easily be turned. The whole situation,
then, is failure in the Cape Colony on both lines, coupled with an impending action in Natal,
of which, until it is over, a favourable result, though there is reason to hope for it, had
better not be too lightly assumed. Yet the British purpose of the war is to establish the British
power in South Africa on a firm basis: the only way to prepare that basis being to crush the
military power of the two Republics. The British forces now in South Africa are clearly not
strong enough to do their work. What is the Nation to do in order to accomplish the task which
it has undertaken?

