Transcriber's Note:                                          |
    |                                                              |
    | The # symbol is used to represent the musical symbol sharp.
The author wishes to acknowledge the courtesy of the editors in
permitting her to republish them in the present volume.

Messrs. L.C. Page & Company wish also to acknowledge the courtesy of the editors, by which
they were able to arrange for the use of the original illustrations.

CONTENTS

                                                                  PAGE
CICELY                                                              11

ALIDA'S HOMELINESS                                                  35

THE HAND OF DOUGLAS                                                 59

ELSIE'S "PALMISTRY EVENING"                                         87

THEIR ANCESTRAL LATCH-STRING                                       111

ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                                  PAGE

"THERE WERE VOICES PASSING HER DOOR"
  (See page 75)                                         Frontispiece

"THE CHEER AND WARMTH OF IT ALL COMFORTED HER"                        31

"HID HER FACE IN A GREAT BUNCH OF ROSES"                              55

"'WHY, I HAVE NEVER EVEN HEARD OF THEM'"                              67

"'WHAT IS THE MATTER?' HE REPEATED"                                   78

"IT WAS NOT HER VOICE ALONE WHICH DREW SO MANY ADMIRERS"              83

"'SHE HID HER FACE ON MY SHOULDER'"                                  100

"'LOOKING AT HER HAND A DOZEN TIMES A DAY'"                          103

"'ASKED ME TO HUNT UP ALL THE REFERENCES'"                           108

"PAUSING IN HER SCRUBBING"                                           116

"SHE ENTERTAINED THEM WITH STORIES OF HER TRAVELS"                   122

"AT THE GATE HE TURNED FOR A LONG BACKWARD LOOK"                     127

"'YOU NEEDN'T LOOK AT ME IN THAT WAY,' SHE WHISPERED, DEFIANTLY"     133

CICELY

CICELY

There was a noisy whir of sewing-machines in Madame Levaney's large dressmaking establishment.
Cicely Leeds's head ached as she bent over the ruffles she was hemming. She was the youngest
seamstress in the room, and wore her hair hanging in two long braids.

It seemed a pity that such girlish shoulders should be learning to stoop, and that her eyes
had to bear such a constant strain. The light was particularly bad this afternoon. Every curtain
was rolled to the top of its big window, but the dull December sky was as gray as a fog. Even
the snow on the surrounding housetops looked gray and dirty in the smoky haze.

Now and then Cicely looked up from her work and glanced out of the window. The cold grayness
of the outdoor world made her shiver. It was a world of sooty chimney-tops as she saw it, with
a few chilly sparrows huddled in a disconsolate row along the eaves. It would soon be time
to be going home, and the only home Cicely had now was a cheerless little back bedroom in a
cheap boarding-house. She dreaded going back to it. It was at least warm in Madame Levaney's
steam-heated workrooms, and it was better to have the noise and confusion than the cold solitude.

Cicely's chair was the one nearest the entrance to the parlour where madame received her customers,
and presently some one passing through the door left it ajar. Above the hum of the machines
Cicely could hear a voice that she recognised. It was that of Miss Shelby, a young society
girl, who was one of madame's wealthiest customers.

"I've brought my cousin, Miss Balfour," Cicely heard her say, "and we want to ask such a favour
of you, madame. You see my cousin stopped here yesterday on her way East, intending to remain
only one night with us, but we've persuaded her to stay over to our party on New Year's eve.
Her trunks have gone on, and of course she hasn't a thing with her in the way of an evening
dress. But I told her you would come to the rescue. You are always so clever,--you could get
her up a simple little party gown in no time. So, on the way down, we stopped at Bailey's,
and she bought the material for it. Show it to madame, Rhoda. It's a perfect dream!"

Cicely heard the snapping of a string, the rustling of paper, and then madame's affected little
cry of admiration. But at the next word she knew just how the little Frenchwoman was shrugging
her shoulders, with clasped hands and raised eyebrows.

"But, mademoiselle," Cicely heard her protesting, "it is impossible! If you will but step to
ze door one instant and obsairve! Evair' one is beesy. Evair' one work, work, work to ze fullest
capacitee. Look! All ze gowns zat mus' be complete before ze New Year dawn, and only two more day!"

She stepped to the door, and with a dramatic gesture pointed to the busy sewing women and the
chairs and tables covered with dresses in all stages of construction.

"Only two day, and all zese yet to be feenish for zat same ball! Much as I desire, it is not
possible!"

Every one looked up as the two girls stood for a moment in the doorway. Miss Shelby glanced
around in a coldly indifferent way, holding up her broadcloth skirt that it might escape the
ravellings and scraps scattered over the floor. She was a tall brunette as elegantly dressed
as any figure in madame's latest Parisian fashion-plate.

"Why can't you put somebody else off to accommodate me just this once?" she said. "It is a
matter of great importance. My cousin has already bought the material on my promise that you
would make it up for her. I think you might make a little extra effort in this case, madame,
when you remember that I was one of your first customers, and that I really brought you half
your trade."

The little Frenchwoman wrung her hands. "I do remember, mademoiselle! Indeed! Indeed! But you
see for yourself ze situation. What can I do?"

"Make some of the women come back at night," answered Miss Shelby, turning back into the parlour,
"and have them take some of the work home to finish. I'm sure you might be obliging enough
to favour me."

Miss Balfour had taken no part in the conversation. She stood beside her cousin, fully as tall
and handsome as she, and resembling her in both face and figure, but there was something in
her expression that attracted Cicely as much as the other girl had repelled her.

Miss Shelby had not seemed to distinguish the sewing women from their machines, but Rhoda Balfour
noticed how pallid were some of the faces, and how gray was the hair on the temples of the
old woman in the corner bending over her buttonholes. When her glance reached Cicely, the appealing
little figure in the black gown, she could not help but notice the admiration that showed so
plainly in the girl's face, and involuntarily she smiled in response, a bright, friendly smile.

As she turned away she did not see the sudden flush that rose to Cicely's cheeks, and did not
know that her recognition had sent the blood surging warmly through the sad and discouraged
heart. It had been two months since Cicely Leeds had been left alone in the strange city, and
this was the first time in all those weeks that any one had smiled at her.

Sometimes it seemed to her that the loneliness would kill her if she knew it must go on indefinitely.
But Marcelle's promise helped her to bear it. Marcelle was her older sister, the only person
in the world left to her, and Marcelle was teaching the village school at home. In another
year the last penny of the debts their father had left when he died would be paid, and Marcelle
would be free to send for Cicely then, and life would not be so hard. Just now there was no
other way for Cicely to live but to take the small wages madame offered, and be thankful that
she was having such an opportunity to learn the dressmaker's trade. She could set up a little
establishment of her own some day, when she went back to Marcelle.

Cicely did not hear the final words of Miss Shelby's argument, but a few minutes later madame
came back to the workroom with a bundle in her arms. There was a worried frown on her face
as she unrolled it and called sharply to her forewoman.

Every seamstress in the room bent forward with an exclamation of pleasure as the piece of dress-goods
was unrolled. It was a soft, shimmering silk, whose creamy surface was covered with rosebuds,
as dainty and pink as if they had been blown across it from some June garden. Cicely caught
her breath with a little gasp of delight, and thought again of the sweet face that had smiled
on her. Miss Balfour would look like a rose herself in such a dress.

The next day Cicely saw the cutter at work on it, and then the forewoman distributed the various
parts into different hands. Cicely wished that she could have a part in making it. She would
have enjoyed putting her finest stitches into something to be worn by the beautiful girl who
had smiled on her. It would be almost like doing it for a friend. But she was kept busy stitching
monotonous bias folds.

Just as she was slipping on her jacket to go home that evening, the forewoman came up to her
with a bundle. "I am sorry, Cicely," she said, "but I shall have to ask you to take some work
home with you to-night. We are so rushed with all these orders we never can get through unless
every one of you works over-hours. Miss Shelby's extra order is just the last straw that'll
break the camel's back, I'm afraid. Try to get every bit of this hand work done some way or
other before morning."

It was no part of the rose-pink party dress that Cicely had to work on; only more monotonous
bias folds. But as she turned up the lamp in her chilly little room and began the weary stitching
again, she felt that in a way it was for Miss Balfour, and she sewed on uncomplainingly.

She had intended to write to Marcelle that evening in order that her sister might have a letter
on New Year's day, but there would be no time now. She wrapped a shawl around her and spread
a blanket over her feet, but more than once she had to stop and warm her stiff fingers over
the lamp. It was long after midnight when she finished, and she crept into bed, her head still
throbbing with a dull ache.

"The last day of the old year!" she said to herself, as she waded through a newly fallen snow
to her work the next morning. "Oh, Marcelle, how can I ever hold out ten months longer? Nobody
in this whole city cares that I caught cold sitting up in a room without a fire, or that I
feel so lonely and bad this minute that I can't keep back the tears."

It seemed to Cicely that she had never had such a wretched morning. The loss of sleep the night
before left her languid and nervous. Her cold seemed to grow worse every moment, and madame
and the forewoman were both unusually cross. She felt ill and feverish when she took her seat
again after the lunch hour.

Presently madame came in, looking sharply about her, and walked up to Cicely with the rosebud
silk skirt in her hands. "Here!" she said, hurriedly. "Put ze band on zis. Ze ozair woman who
do zis alway have gone home ill. An' be in one beeg haste, also, for ze time have arrive for
ze las' fitting. You hear?"

Cicely took it up, pleased and smiling. After all, she was to have a part in making the beautiful
rose gown that would surely give Miss Balfour such pleasure. Her quick needle flew in and out,
but her thoughts flew still faster.

She had had a gown like that herself once; at least it was something like that pattern, although
the material was nothing but lawn. She had worn it first on the day when she was fifteen years
old, and her mother had surprised her by a birthday party. And they had had tea out in the
old rose-garden, and had pelted one another with the great velvety king roses, and she had
torn her hand on a thorn. Ah, how cruelly it hurt! It was a very present pain that made her
cry out now, not the memory of that old one.

Some one had overturned a chair just behind her, and Cicely's nervousness made her jump forward
with a violent start. With that sudden movement the sharp needle she held was thrust deep into
her hand and two great drops of blood spurted out. With that sudden movement, also, the silk
skirt slipped from her lap, and she clutched it to save it from touching the floor. Before
she was aware of anything but the sharp pain, before she saw the blood that the needle had
brought to the surface, two great stains blotted the front breadth of the dainty skirt.

She gave a stifled scream, and grew white and numb. Almost instantly madame saw and heard,
and pounced down upon her. "I am ruin'!" she shrieked, pointing to the stains. "Nozzing will
take zem out! Mademoiselle will be so angry I will lose ze trade of her!"

The irate woman took Cicely by the shoulders and shook her violently, just as Miss Shelby and
Miss Balfour were announced. They had come for the final fitting, expecting to take the dress
home with them.

Madame, still wildly indignant, went storming in to meet them, and poor Cicely shrank back
into the corner, with her face hidden against the wall. Never in her life had she been so utterly
friendless and alone.

Miss Balfour's disappointed exclamation over the stained dress reached the girl's ears. She
heard madame's eager suggestions of possible remedies, and then Miss Shelby's cold tones:

"Now if it had been the bodice, it would not have been so bad. It could have been hidden by
some of the ribbons or lace or flowers; but to have it right down the middle of the front breadth--that's
too hopeless! There's nothing for it but to make over the skirt and put in a whole new breadth.
There isn't time for that, I suppose, before this evening."

Madame looked at the clock and shook her head. "Ze women air rush to ze grave now," she said.
"Zay work half ze night las' night. Zat is why zis girl say she air so nairvous zat she could
not help ze needle stab herself."

"I could just sit down and cry, I am so disappointed!" exclaimed Miss Balfour. "I had set my
heart on going to the party, and in that dress."

Cicely's sobs shook her harder than ever as the words reached her, and her tears started afresh.
Miss Shelby's voice broke in:

"I am surprised that you would keep such a careless assistant, madame. Of course, you will
expect to make the loss good to my cousin. It will ruin your trade to keep incompetent employees.
It would be better to let the woman go."

"It is a young girl which I have jus' take," said madame, with another shrug. "I have feel
for her because she was an orphan, and I take her in ze goodness of my heart. Behold how she
repay me! Disappoint my customers, ruin my beesness!"

She was pointing to the stains and working herself up into a passion again, when Miss Balfour
interrupted her.

"I should like to see the girl, madame. Will you please call her?"

"Certainement! Willingly, mademoiselle! Ze plaisure shall be yours for to scold ze careless
creature."

Cicely heard and shivered. It had been hard enough to bear madame's angry reproaches, but to
have the added burden of Miss Balfour's displeasure was more than she could endure--the displeasure
of the only one who had smiled on her since she left Marcelle! A moment later madame confronted
her, and Rhoda could hear the girl's sobs.

"Oh, I can't go in! Indeed I can't, madame! It nearly kills me to think I have spoiled that
lovely dress, and that she cannot go to-night after all. I wouldn't have done it for the world,
for it was almost like having her for my friend. She--she smiled at me--the other day."

Rhoda looked at her cousin wonderingly. Could it be some one that she knew, who seemed to care
so much about her pleasure?

Then her eyes fell on the shrinking Cicely, whom madame was pushing somewhat unceremoniously
into the room. Rhoda saw the little black-gowned figure with the tear-swollen face, and suddenly
the crimson spots on her evening gown held a new significance.

It flashed through her mind that the very life-blood of such girls was being sacrificed for
her own selfish pleasure. If she had not hurried madame so, there would have been no night-work
for this poor child, no fagged-out nerves for her the next day.

Suddenly Miss Balfour crossed the room and, to her cousin's astonishment, caught Cicely's cold
hands in hers.

"Look up here, you poor little thing," she said, kindly. "Now don't cry another tear, or grieve
another bit about this. It's no matter at all. I'll just get some new stuff to replace the
front of the skirt, and madame can make it over next week for me and send it on East after
me. I'll pay for it myself, of course, for I'll be very glad to have the silk that must be
ripped out. Mamma is making me a silk quilt, and the rosebuds will work in beautifully. I shall
have it put in, blood-spots and all, to remind me that my selfish pleasure may often prove
a cruel thorn to somebody else. I don't want to go through the world leaving scratches behind me."

"Why, Rhoda!" gasped Miss Shelby; but with a proud lifting of her head, Miss Balfour went on:

"I realise it is my own fault in rushing you with the work, madame, and the consequences of
my own unreasonableness are not to be laid at this girl's door. Do you understand, madame?
Not a cent is to come out of her wages, and you are to keep her and be good to her, if you
want my good-will. I am coming back this way in the spring, and this gown is so beautifully
made that I shall be glad to order my entire summer wardrobe from you."

"Why, Rhoda Balfour!" exclaimed her cousin again, while madame bowed and smiled and bowed again.

As for Cicely, she went back to the workroom almost dazed, and tingling with the remembrance
of Miss Balfour's friendly tones. It was several hours later when she climbed the stairs to
her little back bedroom to light her coal-oil stove, and make her toast and tea. Her eyes were
still swollen from crying, but she had not felt so light-hearted for weeks.

Just inside her door she stumbled over a big pasteboard box. There was a note on top, and she
hurried to light her lamp. "I know that you will be glad to hear I am going to the party, after
all," she read. "I have found a very pretty white dress in my cousin's wardrobe that fits me
well enough. As long as you have had such a thorny time on my account, it is only fair that
you should share my roses; so I send them with the earnest wish that the coming year may bring
you no thorn without some rose to cover it, and that it may be a very, very happy New Year
indeed to you. Sincerely your friend, Rhoda Balfour."

Cicely tore aside the paraffine paper, and found six great roses, each with a leafy stem half
as long as Cicely herself. She caught them up in her arms and laid her face against their velvety
petals. For a moment, as she stood with closed eyes, drinking in their summer fragrance, she
could have almost believed she was back in the old garden.

"Marcelle, dear," she murmured, "I can be brave now! I can hold out a little longer, for she
wrote, 'Sincerely your friend.'"

The little room was glorified in Cicely's eyes that night by the flowers she loved best. She
ate her scant supper as if she were at a festival, sent a little letter of thanks that made
the tears come to Miss Balfour's handsome eyes, and afterward wrote a bright, hopeful letter
to Marcelle that lifted a burden from the elder sister's heart. Marcelle had been half afraid
that Cicely would be growing bitter against all the world.

"Think of it, sister!" Cicely wrote. "American Beauties are a dollar apiece, and I have six!
There is a music-teacher who has the room across the hall from mine. She is at home this week
with a cold on her lungs, and to-morrow, when I go to work, I am going to loan her all my beautiful
roses. It's too bad to have them 'wasting their sweetness on the desert air' all day while
I am gone. So she shall have them until I come home at night."

Madame Levaney gave no holiday to her employees on New Year's day, but Cicely did not care.
She left her roses at Miss Waite's door with the announcement that they were hers for the day,
but that she would have to call for them and claim them at night. The oddness of the arrangement,
and the quaint way in which Cicely made it, won Miss Waite's heart, and when she heard the
girl's step in the hall that evening, she opened the door.

"Come right in," she called, cordially. "I can't spare the roses until after supper, so you
will have to come in and eat with me. You've no idea how much I have enjoyed them!"

Cicely paused timidly on the threshold. There were the gorgeous American Beauties in a tall
vase in the middle of the table, between some softly shaded candles. And there was a bright
lamp on the open piano, and a glowing coal fire in the grate. The little table was spread for
two, and a savoury smell of oysters stole out from the chafing-dish Miss Wade had just uncovered.

"We'll celebrate the New Year together, and drink to our friendship in good strong coffee,"
said Miss Waite, lifting the steaming pot from the hearth. "Draw your chair right up to the
table, please, while everything is hot."

Only one who has been as cold and hungry and homesick as Cicely was, can know how much that
evening meant to her, or how the cheer and the warmth of it all comforted her lonely little
heart. The best of it was that it was only a beginning, and there were few nights afterward,
during that long winter, when the warmth and light of Miss Waite's room was not shared for
awhile, at least, with the little seamstress.

The roses lasted more than a week; then Miss Waite helped Cicely to gather up the petals as
they fell, and together they packed them away in a little rose-jar, according to an old recipe
that Miss Waite read out of her grandmother's time-yellowed note-book.

Then Cicely brought Miss Balfour's note.

"I want to preserve this, too," she said, dropping it in among the dried rose-leaves. "You
told me that Rhoda means 'little rose,' and that line, 'Sincerely your friend,' was as sweet
to me that day as the flowers themselves. As long as I live I shall think of her as an 'American
Beauty.'"

She lifted the little rose-jar for one more whiff of its faint, sweet fragrance, and said,
slowly, as she closed it again, "And as long as I live the thought of her will help to take
the sting out of all my thorns."

ALIDA'S HOMELINESS

ALIDA'S HOMELINESS

With a sigh of relief Alida Gooding saw the dentist put away his instruments. Her nerves seemed
all aquiver as she slowly rose and went into the little dressing-room to put on her hat and
coat, and to wait for the family carriage which was to call for her at this hour.

She was a plain-looking girl of eighteen, with homely, irregular features, a sallow complexion,
and a reserved, haughty manner that tended to repel all friendly advances. All that clothes
could do to improve a girl's appearance had certainly been done for her. Every part of her
costume, from her fashionable gown to her stylish hat, indicated wealth and good taste; but
the face that looked wistfully back at her from the little dressing-room mirror was not pretty.

The door into the adjoining parlour was slightly ajar, and she could hear some one pacing restlessly
about, awaiting his turn. "I'll be ready for you in about three minutes, Charley!" called the
dentist from the inner room; and Alida heard the reply, "No hurry. The situation was quite different, and accordingly he had to act now. He reminded the Russian
Admiral to the Treaty of Paris. Senjavin gave a hesitant answer by saying, that the contract, although
completed and signed by the negotiators, not yet been confirmed by the tsar would. Meanwhile
Marmont learned that the Slavic army in the near Castelnuovo Bocca get reinforcements. There
is also a rumor swept the country, that the Slavs were thinking of continuing the war. The French
general was thus no choice but to prepare themselves for battle. With great haste he had two
fortresses construct, the one on the above Ragusa-position and the mountains Sancto-Sergio second
one on the first item, not far. Emphasis is laid on the friendship with Turks from the neighboring
Bosnia and Herzegovina. He established friendly relations with the Agha of Mostar, with the
Pasha of Trebinje and the vizier of Bosnia to. He made them some gifts in weapons and mountain
guns. [42]

Since the ideas were repeated at Senjavin not, marched his army Marmont to the area of ​​Castel
Nuovo before. A truce was on 14 August between Senjavin and Lauriston been completed, who is
still valid. At the small harbor Molonta he placed on the mountain to its batteries and also
met with Ostro many precautions.

Meanwhile, the imperial military police came and took the command of the Czar of 12 August his
army to continue the fight immediately. That Alexander the contract Oubril of 20 July refused
to recognize that had Senjavin experienced before, and knew also some bokel leader type. The
imperial messenger now confirmed what a general joy in the Slavic camp and throughout the Bocca caused.
On 12 September, at the Day of Celebration the Tsar, said Senjavin with the secret that the war was
to be opened again soon. [43] Preparations were made, as far as this one was not. came from
Corfu on command Senjavins Major-General Popondopuli with other infantry divisions, which he in readiness
on the island had. The Russian regular army was 3,000 men, the number of Bokel and Montenegrins
6000 was man [44] The Russian fleet consisted of 22 warships, including 12 ships Cruisers were.
The Bokeler also had a considerable number of merchant ships, which now were used for war.
These were of course small, but just so easy to steer and especially good fit for the narrow
bay di Cattaro, where the big warships with Effort could turn around.

9. The fight at Castel Nuovo.

The French troops had advanced to the vicinity of Castel Nuovo. They tried to take for themselves
the ground and to entrench themselves in very close proximity to the front Slavic stock. Therefore,
it was already on 14 September because of a small collision between those forces and a division of
volunteers under the command of Georg Graf Voinovic from Castel Nuovo
and Vuko Radonic from Njegusch, with the French, with some losses
had to retire.

[45]

In order to prevent the advance of the French, it was even the naval gunfire from the Russians
used. The French had taken possession of the Cape Ostro namely, a Point, which dominated the entire
Bay, from where the Russian fleet believed Marmont the output from the bay to be able to block.
Senjavin recognized the danger and fired at about The French ship with guns when they appeared
on Ostro and there to sought to entrench. [46] As the strong and incessant shooting in the camp
near Castel Nuovo was heard, everything was ready. On 25 September the Vladika attacked with
his men the French people of the opposite side. These were forced to the Cape to leave and
moved to Molonta back to their strong attachment. But on the evening the same day she had to
give way even there the Montenegrins, taking 38 guns and numerous other war material left behind,
what the Vladika was welcome. The French were always on the edge of the sea coast, and retreated
slowly. Only on the Debeli Breg they stopped and dared to resist, but only for a short period,
which translated to further continue their flight. On the second day they were pursued further
and further. The Russian Army caught up with the Montenegrins in Debeli Breg and united with them.
The French finally reached their camp in Zavtat.

In another very strong entrenchment in Vutche Zdrelo the French had at that last day a violent
clash with a detachment from the Bokeler Risano under the leadership
of Count Sava Svelic.

Stormy, they were attacked by the Risan and Forced abandonment of the fort, after which their
previous occupation hastened back to Zavtat.

Marmont loved one swift action. He did not want to be in Zavtat (Ragusa Vecchia) of starve out
the enemy and can include. He thought of a new offensive. Even in the Night between 29 and 30 September,
he withdrew from the camp at about 6000 [47] man. A reserve division, he left behind in Zavtat.
With 6,000 soldiers, he marched against now the enemy. The night was dark, it rained heavily. The
progress of the French was slowed. They preferred, however, bravely throughout the night. Marmont
hoped the Montenegrins, the most shore the river Liuta had pitched for the night, even as to surprise
the darkness. He came too late. The storm was to blame. When it dawned, he was still a mile
from Liuta away. His attack led Marmont very cleverly.

He sent the Supreme Plan Zone ahead with a battalion. He should follow General Lauriston to
support. Marmont himself advanced with the rest of the army as a reserve after [48].

The attack was strong. The Montenegrin outposts were driven back to the Camp on the river, where
was the Vladika. After a fierce battle in which he fell into great danger, the Montenegrins
went with a loss of 60 men to the heights back from Moidesch, Mokrino and Kameno. General Popondopula
came to the aid of the Montenegrins. He set up his forces to the Moidescher mountains, while the
Montenegrins from since retreated to fill the canyons between Castelnuovo and Risano, so they
covered the rear of the army. The surveys of Mokrino Kameno and were now occupied even more.
The position of the Russian general was now a lot of excellent, because the French. Marmont
ordered from Lauriston with two battalions against this enemy unit. But the first assault Lauriston
was repulsed by the Russians. Marmont was Lauriston with immediate reinforcement, consisting of a
battalion of infantry under the command of General Launay. The battle lasted seven hours. The
Russians were extremely after courageous and hard attacks on the withdrawal of the French and
gave their position on the height award. They did but only after a desperate resistance, with the bayonet
was one of the French invaded. Approximately 250 men, Russians and Bokeler let their lives on the
battlefield. The Russians took their direction of Castelnuovo and were pursued relentlessly
by the French. This persecution went to Cape Ostro and took in the face of the Russian Fleet
still continues until this brought the grape the French to a standstill
and yours the Return to Castel Nuovo allowed in this way.

On 1 Marmont October started a new fight. General Lauriston, he sent against Kameno and Mokrino
where Bokel and Montenegrins were, and the General Delzons against the Russians from Castelnuovo
to elicit these and cut off from the city. He also ordered that all Farmhouses in the area
to light the city and burn. «C'était la punir Rébellion même dans son foyer, "[49] explains Marmont.
It was also a Turkish village, Schwinje, burned, because the villagers of the demanded end to
help the French wanted to do. The Montenegrins in Kameno Mokrino and not waited until they approached
the Lauriston had moved but as soon as they were in his view, with rage before, so he immediately
had to withdraw. To the second division, under General Delzons, the "avec vigeur» [50] The troops
led, as Marmont himself testified, the guns fired from the two forts Castel Nuovo and Espagnola and
out of the fleet. This moment is as follows Marmont (This is consistent with the reports Slavic):
"Le 2 octobre, au moment où je faisais incendie les beaux Faubourg de Castel Nuovo, malgré
le feu ennemi de la flotte, à mille douze cents paysans [51] et quelques attaques les Russes
vinrent postes de ma gauche, et les surprirent les à se replier obligèrent. "[52] When the left wing,
under General Lauriston, pushed back was, he joined with the General Delzons. He had also suffered
a lot under the Fire from land and sea. Marmont gave Italian Guard in support. The Struggle
was by the hour and more violent. The mass of the people from the surrounding villages and the whole
Bocca they gathered at the scene of the fight. The minor children as the old man rushed into
the camp of their brethren fighting to Castel Nuovo, to help them somehow to assist. The battle
lasted all afternoon. The Montenegrins jumped heaps under the French. Terrible scenes were shot as
they can only imagine there where the opponents pile up furiously loss with dagger and revolver
against each other. Most recently, to the French in their camp in Sutorina pushed back. It
was deep night when the last shots were fired.

To the dawn of the 3rd October resounded from the cries of the Montenegrin guards near Sutorina:
"Who is a hero to! The Frenchman flees! "[53] The French were already gone. On the night retreat
to Zavtat ordered Marmont. He saw clearly that it is quite would be pointless to continue engaging
in a battle against the fortified Slavs in Castelnuovo. He could not proceed against Castel Nuovo, without
the cross-fire of the forts in the country and get to the fleet on the water. Because only
one side, from this dangerous from, you could march from Sutorina to Novi. A bypass was excluded because
of the steep mountains, which hang down over the city.

was heard as the cry of the guards in Castel Nuovo, the Montenegrins rushed to her Vladika according
to the French. In two hours, this was requested. Since Marmont not in the fight wanted to get
involved, he just accelerated his move. Meanwhile, Russian hunters were and pursued in conjunction
with the Montenegrins Marmont again hardest. Many dead and wounded remained on the streets are.
The fire shots directed at the French major damage at. At last they reached Zavtat, where they
entrenched themselves, and the Montenegrins went laden with booty. [54] The report, which
left us by this retreat Marmont has is quite different. He writes: "J'avais Precaucion mon
but et montre à ces peuples barbares ma superiorité sur les Russes (namely, the struggle at Castel
Nuovo). Je me le retirai 3, en plein jour, à la vue de l'ennemi. Rentre à Raguse-Vieux, mes troupes
reprirent le camp qu'elles avaient cinq jours auparavant quitté. La terreur était adjusting the ennemis,
que pas un paysan n'osa me suivre. "(!) [55] If we all Russian and Serbian reports of the battle
of Castel Nuovo and examined by a French withdrawal from Sutorina Zavtat to their common features
through and we only consider this report Marmont, so we have some very striking . Happen Marmont
would have defeated the Slavic army at Castel Nuovo, it remains to be hasty retreat to Zavtat
completely inexplicable, because that place 17 km away from the battlefield was. If he had
really won, and when have been so terribly big "la terreur of ennemis» would, it is the biggest
mystery for us if he does not follow this "terrified peasants" wanted. His goal was, Castelnuovo
and Cattaro defeat or at least the country . Occupy Nothing that he had achieved. Why, then, without having
achieved a retreat thing? To another place where he draws the result of the fight at Castel
Nuovo in Recital says Marmont: "Ainsi l'ennemi, qui comptait mettre à feu et à sang Raguse
et la Dalmatia, n'avait pas pu défendre son territoire et ses propres foyers. "[56] Was the so-so
nothing was the General the way to keep this territory under his control. Castel Nuovo is
the strongest point throughout the Bocca. Those who have occupied this place, who is the master
of the country. If this point So by the Slavs could not be defended, as the General says it,
it would He can fill Castel Nuovo. But he omitted it altogether, and moved on to Zavtat back. He
left indeed all other fortified posts, which he can build yourself or the Slavs had taken
as Molonta, Liuta, Ostro, Sutorina, Kameno and Mokrino. Anyone who reads his report with more
attention and consideration when he also Ground to which it is here, do not know, must face an
inexplicable mystery. And everyone knows of these landscapes and critical cross compliance
reports which Marmont confronts, must include the fact that the French were defeated at Castel
Nuovo and are therefore retreated rapidly as far as Zavtat pursued by Bokel, Russians and Montenegrins.

After
the battle Senjavin issued a proclamation to the Bokel and Montenegrins from which we only report
the following excerpt here: "Soldiers, you have not only great heroism and shown great bravery,
but also all done and you follow instructions properly ever be praiseworthy in everything. The
boldness of the enemy to fight of our country venture, has been punished.

Because of your perseverance, the enemy was surprised that so many people has lost that when he collected
no new powers and a new struggle is to dare. As I welcome you as a winner, I thank you that you
have treated the prisoners well, and hope that humanity will not hurt later ... etc. "[57]

This document is the best testimony to the close of the war in Castel Nuovo.

10. The Bocca during the ceasefire. Occupation of the islands.
 Nobody will ever know how it happened, but she slipped away and got into the
little cottage around the corner. There was a child there that she had taken a fancy to from
seeing it at the window whenever she passed.

"Nobody can find out how long she was there, or what the two children did. She says that they
played party and had 'good fings' to eat that they 'finded' by themselves. Miss Alida met her
coming home about four o'clock, and turned to walk with her and see her safely into the house,
for she suspected that Doris had run away. Doris was eating some of the pink candy that she
had brought home from the cottage, although we did not know where it came from until this morning.

"She offered Miss Alida a taste out of the little pasteboard box she carried. To Miss Alida's
horror, she found it was a package of roach paste, warranted to be a deadly poison to insects.
Miss Alida hurried the child into the house and set to work so skilfully that by the time the
doctor reached there, nothing was left for him to do. He said that Doris would have died but
for Miss Alida's medical knowledge and immediate attention. If nothing had been done until
he arrived, it would have been too late to save the child.

"Ada got home about the time he pronounced Doris entirely out of danger, and was so frightened
when she heard what had happened that she went from one fainting spell into another. This morning
we found where Doris got the poison, and learned that the little child at the cottage died
in the night. Ada is so unnerved that she is nearly frantic, thinking how near she came to
losing Doris. She is so grateful to Miss Alida that she would go through fire and water to
serve her in any way. Well, we all would, in fact," added the young man, with a suspicion of
huskiness in his voice. "You see, Doris is the only grandchild in the family, and we are almost
foolishly fond of her."

Detaching a locket from his watch-chain, he handed it to the judge. "Here is a miniature of
her," he said. The judge looked at the beautiful baby face framed in its golden curls, and
then glanced up at Alida, who had returned, dressed for her drive.

"Thank God for such a sensible little daughter!" he said with fervour, as he rose and kissed her.

This was not the last time that Ben Fuller was sent to escort Alida to his sister. Mrs. Cranford's
gratitude grew into an intense affection for the girl. All winter she sent for her on every
possible occasion, to drive with her, to dine, to go to the opera, or attend some entertainment.
She was constantly planning some new way to give Alida pleasure. Finding her deeply interested
in the children at the hospital, she sent a beautiful tree out to them on Christmas day, in
Alida's name. When February 14th came again, a great package of valentines found its way to
Alida for the children--enough for every child in every ward, and the finest that could be
bought in the city.

Doctor Agnes came up to Alida's room to help her sort and address them. "You certainly have
your share this year," she said, laughing. "Do you remember what a slough of despond you were
in a year ago?"

Alida smiled happily, and then hid her face in a great bunch of roses on her dressing-table.
The little note that had come with the flowers was still in her hand, and she had just reread it.

"St. Valentine has brought me something else," she said, hesitatingly. "Doctor Agnes, I'm to
be Ben's valentine at the party to-night, and he--he thinks that I am really homely in the
archaic sense."

THE HAND OF DOUGLAS

THE HAND OF DOUGLAS

"Hurry, Mary Lee, it is nearly train time!" called Mrs. Marker, where she sat in a dingy little
dining-room, pouring out a cup of coffee in nervous haste for her daughter's early breakfast.
The brand-new hand-satchel on the lounge, packed for its first journey, was the only thing
in the room undimmed by service. Even at this early hour the house felt hot and stuffy, for
the August sun was fast warming the great Southern city to a heat that would be intolerable
by noon.

"I wish you were going with Mary Lee, Henry," said Mrs. Marker, looking across the table at
her husband as he seated himself. "You need the rest."

There was a weary stoop in the man's shoulders that told of years spent over a bookkeeper's
desk, and his face was pale and worn. As Child
witness countless intrigues and conspiracies in Ferrara itself and anxious listener, have been reported
so often more cruel things from the other Italian courts of his time, felt he was always surrounded
by terrors which his dishonest and impotent nature no other than the resistance could oppose changing
the mask and the strangest Inventions. He slandered to provide the tip of slander, he instigated
small conspiracies in order not to fall victim to Familienintrige. All in secret and without fear Ernst and
effect, except that he was always false and cranky.

That evening, however, when one of his brothers, against whom he entertained the least suspicion,
attacked on gruesome way in the middle of the court and the eye was deprived happened a crack in
his feeble mind, and from then on it was clear to him that he, as the more dangerous of the
two, as he thought that a more terrible destruction was headed.

The morbid fear that he grudged no more innocent moment, robbed him of sleep and him any food, let beargwohnen
each cup, increased his fear of his two ruling Brothers desperate
to hate, and he decided to depose and kill them.

This, however, he needed his blinded brother.

Don Ferrante had in fact been the perception that the lawless and glare-free dish Don Giulio
worked powerfully on the public feeling had, not to mention the disgraceful, the imagination
exciting process itself Ferrara, on which a yoke of slavery and the command absolute silence
in government - and Hofsachen harder than anywhere else in Italy
congested, Ferrara had even sure where this happened unheard fell,
in fermentation.

It had a specific prohibition be enacted to take care of Don Giulio, inquire after him, or even to
sew Pratello and circle around his bushes.

Of course it was that the image of the blinded in the thoughts and
conversations of the Ferrarese is finished and the unbridled youth
whose dangerous and reckless MISTRESS Bloodshed they had cursed earlier,
a pitiful victim, a noble martyrs was.

This Don Ferrante noticed it, and he also had a strong theatrical
vein, thought He is an effective scene, bring about the overthrow
of Ferrara with security would.

Don Giulio, on horseback on a white, accompanied by two servants in
mourning tents, with staring, Augenhoehlen empty and a suffering face,
and he himself next to it, by pointing to the Crime and impunity,
the Public sympathy is racially.

Some promote Agreed, it seemed an easy task, because the conventional Footage of a riot in a small
Italian tyranny and in lacking Ferrara not.

\ XDCber the more Don Ferrante was not made clear, but a quick Robbery and the murder of the Duke
and the Cardinal seemed to him essential.

With these products of his fear and malice he pursued every day the poor blind. This but struggled
against the murder of the princes of humanity and dismissed with
a noble indignation, that he would be as long as he only enjoyed and
reveled, never have been able to him in the sun roller a pathetic
spectacle.

He was ashamed at the markets Ferrara himself as the issue Baenkelsaengerbild
its tragic history.

And yet his heart remained the frightening influence
of his brother unlocked. The hospitality it extended to its paying guests was the same with
which it welcomed its many visitors in ante-bellum days. And Miss Philura Wicklett was the
same. They were wonderfully alike, the aristocratic old mansion and Miss Philura. Indeed, one
could scarcely think of her apart from her familiar background of tall, white pillars, as stately
and dignified as herself. The old portraits looking down on the faces round the great polished
table, saw familiar ones, for the same family types were repeated there year after year among
the boarders that had been welcomed at Wicklett generations before. The long mirrors, reflecting
dimly the young faces peering into them now, had flashed back the smiles of mothers and grandmothers
of these girls many a time, when gay house parties thronged the old mansion.

People flocked from all over the country to drink the waters of the chalybeate springs near
by, which the name of Wicklett made famous; but a new hotel had been built for the strangers.
Only the first families, who claimed Miss Philura's friendship, knew the open sesame to her
great front door. It was for this reason that there was much surprise and many exclamations
of wonder, and a stir all round the luncheon table, when Miss Philura announced that she was
expecting Miss Marker and Miss Dent to spend August with her. "Where are they from, Miss Philura?"
asked Molly Glendenning, a tall brunette, who was the acknowledged belle of the springs that
season.

"From your own city, my dear," was the placid answer. "They live somewhere on Bank Street,
I believe."

"Why, I have never even heard of them," said Molly Glendenning, with a slight arching of her
black eyebrows at mention of the street.

Miss Philura hesitated and coloured slightly. "I must acknowledge," she said, with some hesitation,
"that I have departed from my usual custom, and it is only fair to you to inform you that they
do not move in your set at home. Miss Dent's father was a painter by trade, but is now a wealthy
contractor. She has had every advantage, is a college graduate, and has had her voice cultivated
abroad. She will be quite an acquisition to us. Miss Marker is just a little schoolgirl, but
well connected, I understand. Her mother was a Monroe. I knew her father when he was just beginning
the study of law. He had a very brilliant career in prospect, apparently, but through some
sad freak of fate lost his money and was obliged to abandon it. He is bookkeeper now for Bement
& Ahlering."

A stony silence greeted Miss Philura's explanation, for a moment, and then several expostulatory
voices asked in chorus, "Oh, Miss Philura! How could you consent to their coming? A common
workingman's daughter! We don't want to know her, I'm sure!"

There was a touch of hauteur in Miss Philura's manner, that any one should question any act
of hers. "As I stated before," she said, coldly, "I had the best of reasons. Surely, if I with
my conservative ideas can endorse them, that ought to be enough. There are not two more ladylike
girls in the South than Travis Dent and Mary Lee Marker. I hope you will find one another agreeable
during the little time they will be here."

Miss Philura, somewhat deaf, did not hear the undertone passing round the table, as she turned
her attention to the making of the salad dressing. "A sign-painter's daughter!" said Molly
Glendenning, with a shrug of the shoulders. "Well, I for one do not care to know her. People
educated above their station in life are apt to be presuming. It might make matters a trifle
awkward next winter if she should attempt to push her acquaintance when we go back to town."

"It will be easy enough to ignore them," answered her cousin Cora, "and I shall do it with
a vengeance. It is one thing to be nice and friendly with shopgirls and factory hands, and
quite another to take up with the well-to-do middle class. Give them an inch and they'll take
an ell every time. First thing you know they'll turn round and patronise you."

The subject was still under discussion when they rose from the table and followed Molly Glendenning
out into the wide hall. "They'll not stay long!" she exclaimed when they were well out of Miss
Philura's hearing; "I'll promise you that. They can push in here if they want to, but they'll
have to learn Marmion's lesson--'The hand of Douglas is his own!'" She swept her pretty pink
palm outward with a tragic gesture, as she ran lightly up the stairs, and the girls, laughing
as they flocked after her, scattered to their rooms for their afternoon siesta.

It was in the heat and drowsiness of mid-afternoon that Travis and Mary Lee reached Wicklett,
and stood looking down the long shady avenue leading to the house.

"Oh, Travis!" exclaimed Mary Lee, catching her breath with a gasp of admiration. "Isn't it
beautiful and still? It seems as if we might be on enchanted ground, and that the palace of
the Sleeping Beauty. I never dreamed that anything could be so lovely."

She nodded toward the velvety green terraces, with their marble urns of flowers, stretching
one above another until they reached the stately white pillars of the old mansion, where two
stone lions guarded the white steps. On the highest terrace a peacock stood motionless, his
resplendent feathers spread to the sun. Here and there deserted hammocks swung under the trees,
with books and magazines scattered invitingly underneath. Mary Lee turned aside from the path
to look at the title of one in passing.

"'Gray Days and Gold,'" she read aloud. "How can any one leave such a treasure on the grass?
Surely, Travis, they must be all golden days here. I have never imagined anything so beautiful."

Miss Philura met them in the hall in a white wrapper, waving a huge palm-leaf fan. "I was up
waiting for you," she said, cordially. "Every one else in the house is asleep. That is all
one can do these hot afternoons."

"I shall soon follow everybody's example," said Travis, when they had been shown to their rooms
and the trunks brought up.

"And I shall begin a long letter home," said Mary Lee, spreading out her writing material on
an old claw-footed table, by the window overlooking the peacock.

All the trivial incidents of the trip had been stored away for this very purpose. They ceased
to be trivial when recorded as Mary Lee's alert eyes had seen them, and with the colour her
amusing descriptions lent. It was a letter that seemed to carry a breath of fresh air with
it into the stuffy dining-room on Bank Street, where her mother first read it, and into the
hot office where Henry Marker took it later to reread at his leisure. Just that one enthusiastic
letter, bubbling over with a young girl's happiness, was enough to repay him for any sacrifice
he had made to give her such pleasure, and the smile the letter awakened stayed on in his tired
eyes all day.

A sound of voices broke out through the house long before Mary Lee had finished writing. There
was much opening and shutting of doors, and calling of gay messages across the halls as the
old mansion awoke to life. Long before she was dressed for dinner, Mary Lee saw a flutter of
ribbons and white gowns under the trees as some of the girls strolled down to the springs through
the lengthening shadows. Soon she and Travis would be strolling there, too.

Some one began playing on the piano in the drawing-room below, and a familiar air came floating
up to her, clear and sweet. It thrilled her with a festive holiday feeling that seemed to give
wings to her spirits. "Listen, Travis," she cried, running into the adjoining room, "to-morrow
you'll be singing with them."

The music stopped, and the singer came out of the house and stood on the white steps below
between the lions, still humming. It was Molly Glendenning, in her rose-coloured hat and dainty
ruffled dress of palest pink organdy.

"Oh, isn't she beautiful!" exclaimed Mary Lee, peeping out between the curtains. "Look, Travis.
What a picture she makes! 'Queen rose of the rosebud garden of girls,'" she quoted softly.
"Oh, I know I shall love her," she declared, with all the intense enthusiasm of seventeen.

Four more pages were added to Mary Lee's letter that night. She described everybody whom they
had met at dinner, from her Queen Rose, as she called Molly Glendenning, to the courtly old
Confederate general at the end of the table. She had been so absorbed in the repartee and bright
speeches round her that she had not noticed that she and Travis were not included in the conversation.
But Travis had noticed. There were many callers that night after dinner; men who took the girls
away singly, in groups, and in pairs, to some sort of an entertainment at the Inn near by.
Travis and Mary Lee, sitting all alone on the porch in the moonlight, could hear the music
of the band stealing across the lawn. There was a wistful little note in Mary Lee's voice as
she exclaimed, "I wish that we had been here long enough to know everybody and go, too. Oh,
Travis, it will be so nice when we're really acquainted and are a part of it all," and again
her first enthusiasm manifested itself in her voice.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the end of the week came, Mary Lee's lonely little heart still cried out at being kept
"a stranger within the gates." It puzzled her that all her gentle advances should be politely
ignored. Nobody seemed to hear either Travis or herself if they ventured a remark. Not an eyelid
lifted in recognition if they joined a group on the porch or under the trees by the hammocks.
But Travis did not seem to notice. She planned drives and excursions and long walks that kept
them away from the house much of the time after the first two days, and Mary Lee was still
more puzzled that Travis should be so blind. She wondered if she were not overly sensitive
herself, and decided not to cloud Travis's evident enjoyment by a single whisper of her suspicions.

Still it was not drives and excursions for which Mary Lee had longed. It was companionship
and many friends she wanted, and it was hard to hide her disappointment when she wrote home,
and to make her letters as buoyant and cheery as at first. One evening, after one of these
expeditions, she left Travis on the porch and went up-stairs with a heavy heart to write the
usual daily letter. She had heard the girls planning a musicale to be given the following night,
and she had a sore, left-out feeling, because Travis had not been included. Sitting down by
the lamp, she picked up the pen and wrote three words: "Dear, dear father!" Then she laid down
her pen and leaned wearily back in the chair. Somehow there seemed so little to tell. Her door
was open into the hall to admit the breeze, and she heard some one coming up the stairs. There
were voices passing her door, and she recognised the first as Hester Tyler's. She was a young
artist, lately arrived, who was a favourite with every one. "It's hardly fair, Molly," she
was saying. "People who are sure of their own social position have no need to snub anybody.
Miss Dent is certainly a lady, any one can see that, and if her voice is as good as Miss Philura
says, she ought to be included in the programme."

"That might do for you, Hester,"--and Mary Lee recognised the voice of her Queen Rose,--"but
you are too absorbed in your art to know anything about conventionalities. We society girls
have to put up some sort of hedge. If people of that class want to push themselves in where
they are not wanted, and Miss Philura lets them come, that's their affair. But, as I told the
girls in the beginning:

    "'The hand of Douglas is his own, and never shall in friendly grasp
    The hand of such as--the mushroom aristocracy of Bank Street--clasp!'

"No sign-painter's daughter nor bookkeeper's daughter, whichever she may be, on the programme
with me, thank you. If there is, I'll not sing. That's all there is about it."

"Molly Glendenning, you're a snob! The worst sort!" replied Hester, but she laughed as she
said it, and in a moment they were out of hearing. Several minutes later they passed the door
again on their way down-stairs.

Mary Lee sat staring at the paper before her with dazed, tear-blinded eyes, as bit by bit her
innocent little air-castle crumbled into nothingness. Then her glance fell on the words she
had written, and laying her face down on them she began to sob. "Dear old father," she whispered,
brokenly. "I asked them for bread and they gave me a stone. And it's because you have to work.
They despise you for that, you dear old daddykins, with your high ideals and knightly notions
of honour. Oh, how can they be so snobbish and blind! I'll not stay another day under the same
roof with such heartless people!"

Wiping her eyes, she went slowly down-stairs to look for Travis, but the porch and halls were
deserted. Every one must have gone over to the Inn, she thought, as she heard the notes of
the violins stealing out on the night air. Travis was nowhere to be found. At last Mary Lee
wandered into the empty, dimly lighted drawing-room, and throwing herself face downward on
a long velvet divan, gave way to the feelings she could no longer control. She had never been
so miserable in all her life before. Great, choking sobs shook her convulsively.

"Why, my dear child! What is the matter?" asked a deep voice, suddenly, and Mary Lee started
up to see the kind face of the old general bending anxiously over her. "Are you ill? What is
the mutter?" he repeated.

Mary Lee sat up, wiping her eyes with a little, wet ball of a handkerchief. "Nothing, thank
you, sir," she said, politely, feeling all of a sudden that the wise old general would think
her very silly, if he knew the cause of her crying. She tried to keep the sobs out of her answer,
but the effort was a dismal failure, and the tears began to flow again.

"People often break their hearts over nothing," answered the general, courteously, but with
a smile lurking under his white moustache. "It isn't wise to do it, and maybe I could convince
you of the fact, if I knew what particular nothing is making you unhappy."

The general had often noticed the eager, attentive little face at the table, and had been attracted
by its bright intelligence. Mary Lee blinked up with red, tear-swollen eyes into the fatherly
old face with its crown of white hair, and recognised the stamp of the true knight in every
aristocratic feature. With a sudden, instinctive feeling of confidence she cried out: "You
are not like the rest. You would understand, and I must tell somebody."

It was a pitiful little tale that she poured out to her sympathetic listener, revealing a sweet,
unspoiled nature as she laid bare her fond girlish hopes and longings, in a way that would
have surprised her had she realised what she was doing. It gave him an insight into her home
life, too, and when she had finished, he could appreciate what a cruel wound had been given
her sensitive heart by the words which disparaged her father. For a minute after she stopped
speaking, the general sat quite still. Then he said:

"Will you take the advice of an old man who has lived a long time and learned a great many
lessons? Don't go home to-morrow, as it is your first impulse to do. Be brave and unselfish
enough not to say anything to your friend that will mar her enjoyment." He broke off suddenly
and sat musing a minute. "Do you know Browning's 'Saul'?" he asked, after a little pause. Mary
Lee nodded, a gleam of pleasure lighting her eyes for an instant. They have never seen anything
beyond their own little strip ''twixt the hill and the sky,' and they can only follow a leader
like a flock of pretty sheep. It is true that they ought to have a broader horizon than the
boundary of the little social circle in which they were born, but you must make allowances
for them, my child. From their cradles they have been hedged round with conventionalities which
have made them short-sighted. It is your privilege to rise above the petty social hollows of
life. Learn to take an eagle view, my dear. What does the eagle care for the happenings down
in the hollows?

    "'With wing on the wind, and eye on the sun,
     He swerves not a line, but bears onward--right on!'

That is a true American motto, learned from our national emblem.

"It is absolute foolishness for us to prate of old-world castes when it is a part of our national
creed that any one among us may rise as high as the best of us, provided he can grow the wings
wherewith to soar. That little speech which almost broke your heart is a part of our creed,
too. 'The hand of Douglas is his own.' The American Douglas reserves the right to extend it,
regardless of all arbitrary social lines, to any palm that has proved itself worthy, no matter
how hard and toil-stained it may be. Only snobbishness refuses."

There was a long pause, while Mary Lee considered the old general's little sermon, and he watched
her, with a kindly twinkle in his eyes.

"Are you strong enough to do that, child?" he asked, presently; "to rise to the eagle view
of the situation, and stay on here regardless of the slights that have stung you, for your
friend's sake? And your father's sake, too," he added. "It would grieve him sorely to know
of your disappointment, as he would have to know it, if you went back before the appointed time."

Mary Lee looked up quickly. "I don't believe that you understand, after all," she cried. "I
could rise above the snubbings. It is not that that hurts, but it is the disappointment. Oh,
you don't know how I longed to be friends with those girls! They are so bright and attractive,
and seem to have such good times together. It is the missing of all that I had hoped to find
that hurts."

The wistfulness of the fair little face touched the general's gallant soul to the quick. "'Pon
my word," he declared. "If you care as much as that for their friendship, you shall have it.
I'll conduct a campaign into the enemy's quarters, and capture it for you, myself!"

And nobly the old general kept his promise. The night of the musicale Travis Dent was not on
the programme, but she sang more than once, and each time, except the first, at the request
of the most noted musical people among the guests. It was the general who led her to the piano,
first saying that no programme was complete without his favourite ballad.

But Mary Lee saw, with a thrill of gratified pride in her friend's triumph, that it was not
her voice alone which drew so many admirers round her, and kept them drifting back many times
during the evening. It was the charm of Travis Dent's own gracious personality. Mary Lee had
her share of the lions, too, that evening, for the general saw to that. He introduced them
himself, and his deferential attentions to the two girls had the effect he intended. It argued
that they were well worth the knowing.

"Didn't I tell you they were a flock of pretty sheep?" he asked, several days afterward. "Hasn't
a change come over the spirit of your dream?"

"Yes, indeed," answered Mary Lee, gaily. "All thanks to you. And it seems so funny. All the
girls have been talking so much about that Mr. Hendrick Lang, and exclaiming over his new novel.
He has called on Travis twice since the musicale, and this afternoon he took us both out for
a drive. When we came back Miss Glendenning asked us to walk down to the spring with her as
cordially as if we had been old friends always."

"'The hand of Douglas!'" exclaimed the general, with a laugh. "Well, it's the way of the world
to give it in that fashion, and I'm glad you've got what you wanted, at last."

"And to think," cried Mary Lee, "that Travis knew from the first they were trying to freeze
us out. But she didn't care a bit. All those drives and excursions she planned were simply
to keep me away from the house so that I should not notice it. She was going on perfectly serene
and untroubled, herself."

    "'With wing on the wind, and eye on the sun,'"

quoted the general, softly. "Ah, my little friend, Miss Travis has a broader outlook than the
petty hollows. She has risen to the eagle's view."

ELSIE'S "PALMISTRY EVENING"

ELSIE'S "PALMISTRY EVENING"

As Helen Jaynes stood before the mirror in her room, putting the last touches to her toilet,
there was a rap at the door.

"I'm ready, Jane," she called, thinking it was the maid who had come to tell her the carriage
was ready. But instead, her fifteen-year-old sister Sara peeped into the room. "Oh, sister
Helen!" she exclaimed, in a disappointed tone. "Are you going out? Olive and I wanted to ask
you something very particularly."

"Come in, dear," answered Helen, nodding pleasantly to the rosy-cheeked girl who peered over
Sara's shoulder. "What do you want? I am at your service."

"What is it you want, Sara?" asked Helen again, as the girls seated themselves by the cozy,
tiled fireplace, and looked round admiringly.

Sara hesitated. "I had planned to break it to you gently," she began, "but as you are going
out there is no time to lead up to the subject gradually. I hope you'll not be shocked, but
there is a clairvoyant at the Metropole this week. Some of the girls have been there, and they
say it is simply wonderful how she can tell fortunes. She charges only fifty cents. Olive and
I are wild to go, and we thought maybe you might take us Saturday afternoon."

Helen buttoned her gloves as if considering. "Do you think it would make you any happier, little
sister, to know what the future holds for you?"

"Oh, yes!" answered Sara, decidedly. "The clairvoyant told Addie Roberts things in her past
life that positively nobody but Addie knew had happened. Then she told her that a large fortune
is coming to her soon, and she has a long journey ahead of her. She is to fall in love with
a young man whom her parents will oppose her marrying, but 'love will find out a way,' and
all will end happily."

"Does Addie believe all that the clairvoyant told her?" asked Helen.

"I don't know," answered Sara, but Olive put in eagerly, "I am sure she does, for she talks
so much about it, and says if the woman could tell her past so accurately, she cannot help
thinking that there must be some truth in her predictions for the future."

"Sara," said Helen, gravely, "suppose that woman were to tell you that sometime you will quarrel
with your family, and be driven from home, and finally die in a poorhouse. Wouldn't it make
you miserable every time you thought of it?"

"No, indeed, sister," answered the girl, indignantly. "I hope I am not quite so weak-minded
as to believe all that. I'd simply think that she had made a mistake. Imagine me quarrelling
with my family!"

"But clairvoyants often tell people things that seem just as improbable. What is the use of
wasting half a dollar to hear predictions that you might not be able to believe, or if you
could believe them, would make you utterly miserable?"

"Oh, it is just for the fun of it, Helen," urged Sara. "Please take us. All the girls are going,
and we have never had our fortunes told in our lives."

Before there was time for a reply, Jane came to the door. "The carriage is waiting, Miss Helen,"
she said. For a moment Helen stood irresolutely beside her dressing-table, stroking her muff
in an absent-minded sort of way. Then she said: "I shall have to think about it awhile before
I can promise. I shall not be out long. If you girls have nothing planned for the afternoon,
suppose you wait for me here. Get out my old college chafing-dish and make yourselves some
chocolate, string up my banjo, and I'll give you a package of old letters to read, telling
of some of our pranks at school."

"Oh, that will be lovely, Miss Helen," cried Olive; "especially the letters;" and Sara ran
to give her sister an impulsive hug.

Unlocking her desk, Helen selected a bundle of letters from one of the pigeonholes. It was
tied with her class colours and marked "From Sophia Gordon." "She was my best friend at school,"
explained Helen, "and my roommate for three years; but being in the class just below me, she
had to go through her senior year without me. These letters were written during that time.
I have a reason for asking you to read them. Perhaps you will be able to discover it before
I come back." With a smile and nod to Olive, and a light kiss on Sara's cheek, she left them
to amuse themselves during her absence in any way they chose.

"You read the letters aloud while I make the chocolate," said Sara, as the door closed behind
her sister. "We can do the other things afterward."

"There is a photograph in this one, of a girl about your size, Sara," announced Olive, as she
opened the first letter. "What's this written under it? 'Timoroso.' What a queer name! But
see what a sweet face she has. I wonder who it can be?"

"The letter will probably tell," answered Sara, striking a match to light the alcohol-lamp. This is the only known me in Morocco locality where volcanic phenomena
are still in action. On the second day in the valley of Ssebu going up, which comes to settle
the numerous bends of the East, we were another night in a Tschars (mountain village) and reached
the third day at the picturesque Mountains, the town of Scotch.

      [Footnote 124: Perhaps the Pyrron Pedion whose Ptolemy in Mauritania
       Tingitana mentioned.]

After Ali Bey Tesa is on the 34 ° 9 '32 "NB and 6 ° 15' WL v. P. On the banks of toads of the
Oued-Asfor (yellow river, as in this case means the Ssebu), but almost half an hour from him
away. Also flows through the city from small-Oued Tesa, who comes from the south. Able, ie, located
on the slope of a mountain, Tesa has an extraordinary resemblance with Uesan. Leo gives the city
5000 fire authorities, which in any case is much too high because it is unlikely to have more
than 5000 inhabitants, of which about 800 Jewish souls Confession
are.

Hemsö ventures the conjecture that Scotch is the Babba of the ancients.

The city, surrounded by a simple wall and a Kasbah, has a stable garrison 500 Maghaseni, a
distinction that it still communicates only with Udjda, which is just as has a great crew,
while in all other cities of the kingdom only about 20 soldiers to the Governor are available.
The location of the city, near the troubled Hiaina, and the other completely independent hill tribes
in the east and south of the city make such a strong Very necessary occupation. Scotch is the main
center of trade between Algeria, respectively. Tlemcen and Fez. But east of the adhesive area
is so insecure that every caravan by a party Maghaseni must be accompanied. Stark visited Karavanenwege
result also of Scotch after and the Figig Tafilet. The houses inside the city express wealth of
the inhabitants, the great mosque, with ancient monolithic columns in the interior, suggesting that once
The city has been more important than now, and what the health of the air, the abundance the fruit
trees and the wonderfully beautiful area is concerned, one can only agree with Leo, who says, "this
book should place because of the healthy air in the winter as well
as summer takes place here, be the royal residence.

"

We were staying in the Scotch in the Sauya tkrA Mulei Thaib, and were of course well entertained.
After two days stay, as the Emkadem einkassirt had his funds went
we are after the same way Uesan back, because the more direct but
by the way leading Hiaina not offered enough security for even the
Emkadem of Grossscherifs.

In Uesan again arrived, my days were numbered in that it was just about the permission To get to
leave. I could not remember to tell the Grossscherif that I wanted to leave him forever, because
he once made perfect to the idea had, I would always stay with him. So I finally got permission
for a small make travel to be allowed, and said the city Uesan forever
(as I believed then, later I came back but still Uesan) farewell.

       

       * * * * *

13. Travel along the Atlantic

* * * * *

leave for Tangier, I, deposited a box containing the papers of Sir Drummond and moved along the
coast, the same way to L'Araisch further. As the equipment I had nothing more than a Donkey
with two Schuari (side chairs), which contained several stores, a Spanish renegade a sense
of my companion, servant, donkeys and warder Doctorgehülfe was, had joined. Before we moved,
we stayed for some time in the city.

L'Araisch is on the far side of the left bank of the Oued-Kus so that one side to the river, the other
makes for the ocean front. About 4 K.-M. upstream of the Oued-Kus on the right bank was the old Lya
of the Punic or as it later by the Greeks and Romans called Lina, formerly the largest settlement
on the Atlantic Ocean. A little further upstream where the Oued-Maghasen
falls in Kus.

The ruins by Sir Drummond Hay and Barth been visited, without, however, both special discoveries were
made also unlikely without cleaning the soil and excavations must be included. Drummond Hay,
the ruins are called Schemmies. Barth wants from the foundation walls recognized at the Casbah
that even in today's base of an old town of L'Araisch Libyan city was located, which would confirm
Scylax's statement.

Of which is from the Old and in the mouth of the Hesperides-mentioned Lixos lying island today
no trace.

However, appears at low tide goes out about 1 K.-M. holding sandbank in the bag-like estuary of the
river to, and may just need a general to accept lower Atlantic coast, this was the once fertile
Hesperides Island. This protected estuary on the north by high mountains of sand, could, would
you take the trouble the cash wegzubaggern be furnished to a excellent harbor. Now, with flood
maximum of vessels of 150 tons of content arriving, and when we were in L'Araisch, were six European
ships in the harbor, also rotted on the beach the last two warships
the Moroccans, two wretched brigantine.

And yet Morocco had not yet one hundred years the audacity to challenge his wretched sea power
the world.

The name L'Araisch arose after Hemsö from the Word araisch-ben-el-Aras, ie, the trellis the Beni
Aros. After the city alternately in the possession of the Moroccan and Portuguese have been was
seized in 1689 after a five-month siege Mulei Ismaïl same. Since the time has been attacked by L'Araisch Europeans
have often, as in 1785 by the French in 1829 by the Austrians, while the Moroccan fleet, the
coup de grace offset.

We notice in L'Araisch on the buildings of the city still clearly
the Christian influence.

So the pretty market square is a regular rectangle is provided with arched arcades, the Columns are
monoliths of sandstone. The main mosque, which also follow the market-place Front to power,
must have been a Christian church, the facade is in the so-called Jesuitenstyl held. Moreover,
there is yet another handsome and multi-storey Building, with beautiful high windows; the market
place. Maybe it was the former Government House, perhaps a monastery, because only in 1822 had
to this existing Spanish Mission be abandoned. Today the house stands empty and unused, and is
to be deleted by the window Wind, and the eating atmosphere will soon do their part to the
building in ruins to make.

Except very well received but unresisting walls is the city by a four bastions provided further,
Christian and plant originally built with good material only. This fort is located on the
westernmost tip of the city to the sea. Inside this Fort is a castle, whose round cupolas can
already see from afar. The castle is be built by the Sultan Muley Yasid. Below the fort to the port
to two brick Beach batteries. After S.-O. dominant in the city, is the Kasbah, a fortress of
rectangular shape, provided at the four corners with a very sharp angle bastions. The walls the Casbah,
which is also probably a Baute of the Portuguese and Spaniards are
well preserved, But despite all Vertheidigungsanstalten L'is an attack
of Europeans not long Araisch oppose resistance can, no matter whether
he made from the ocean, or from the land is.

Otherwise, L'Araisch no remarkable buildings, if not a small tomb in the gardens dedicated to
the south of the city, the Lella-Miñana, a Sherifa, the buried content. In his lifetime, they
should have done wonders, and even now are to the grave in the chapel Lella-Miñana the women
praying to be healed of infertility: two pious close resident hermit
open to women for a small gift of the door of the tomb and support
them in prayer.

The city has about 5000 inhabitants, of whom may well be 1,200 Jews, the latter as all Jews in the
port cities of Morocco's use, the Spanish language. The few Europeans, perhaps 30 or 40 individuals
are under the protection of their consuls, of which there here, with the exception of a German
gives all nations.

The trade of the city is not insignificant, and includes the same items in the Tangier Export and
import will be executed that is, especially wool, animal skins, wax, oil, butter, Fruit as
almonds, oranges, lemons and figs, dried olives, eggs, poultry (other Livestock export is prohibited),
cereals and pulses. In L'Araisch just adds the Bark of the cork oak, which is processed in Europe.
Rubber and copper from Morocco to Europe no longer carried out, as
copper in Europe and rubber from Senegal belong cheaper can.

Leeches are also executed by L'Araisch, but more so of Tangier and Mogador. Import items are:
cotton fabrics, cloth, raw and manufactured silk, paper, weapons, metals, such as iron, lead, mercury,
sulfur, alum, saltpetre, colonial produce, including particularly Tea and sugar, and various objects,
bad jewelry, porcelain and glass-ware, Mirrors and the like m. The above-mentioned objects
are pretty much in all ports of the country in the same trade.

The road between L'Araisch and Media will be uninterrupted or Mehdia out on a spit of sand,
between the sea on the one hand, swamps and lakes located on the other. On the excellent Map by A.
Petermann, Mittheilungen born 1865, Plate 4, then on the map of Renou This is quite clearly brought
to view. Spits and lagoons, only to flat sandy coasts arise, and so it is natural that where
the other conditions for Haff and Nehrungbildung are present, they arise. As the sand is a product
of the sea; then the spits, composed of sand, only to shallow coasts with much sand observed.
There are now spits relating to both sides even with the mainland, or those who have broken through
the sea. The former can arise from the fact that high dunes can not be broken under extreme
tides, Ocean water but let through which water from behind the dunes running parallel with the
sea is a lake, or collects it landward of the dunes, the water of
small rivers, forming a lake, the Water, but is not strong enough
to break through the spit, or even the water from the Landsee pours
on the Spit in the Ocean.

Spits are breached by that pave the rivers an output, or by the ocean itself, in both cases
Made lagoons.

At various points of Africa has one spits and lagoons, in so before
the delta of the Nile Egypt, which are more important than our German
in the Baltic, or on the coast of Guinea; the spit on the coast of
Morocco runs from L'Araisch out to Rbat, thus has a length of nearly
17 German miles.

Inland from the Spit in winter is a 2-3 mile wide lake in the summer to swamp is therefore in the
north near Muley Bu Slemmer's name Mordja [125] Ras el Daura, and
south of Mehdia, Mordja el Mehdia.

      Same immediately to the east of the lake or marsh that extended encounters
Cork oak forest, the northern end of L'Araisch beginning from the
south at Rbat.

[Footnote 125: Mordja called swamp]

Countless water birds, ducks, pelicans, ibises and other hang around here, and in summer are hyenas,
jackals and wild boar from the cork oak forest to hunt in the wet
marsh.

All the Spit itself is inhabited by Arabs. They usually have their tents on the land side and although
never a circle, but as if it were the long form of the spit is wanted to adapt, always pitched
in a long line. The dunes are partly covered well, usually with Lentisken, grass feed for beef and sheep
is abundant.

Usually one sets the path to Mehdia along the water back in two days' march, the large Because
of heat, and because we were staying so often to bathe in the ocean, we took four Days. Everywhere
we found the way, excellent hospitality and the wonderful watermelons
which produces the spit have I never tasted better than here.

      Two pretty Tombs are built right on the seashore: Mulei Bu Slemmer
       [126], a day trip south consisting of L'Araisch, several cathedrals,
       then Mulei Hammed bel Cheir, vis-à-vis of Mehdia on a small hill.

At about 3 clock afternoon on the fourth day we reached Mehdia, located on the left bank of the
Sebu.

[Footnote 126: The Most geographers hold Mulei Bu Slemmer for old Mamora, Mamora antica, and yet
I do not think ever stood at Bu Slemmer this place has.]

To travel but first we had a pretty long way around one K.-M. upstream go where there was the
ferry, then we went back to the left bank and climb the path that leads up the steep 417 foot (after
Barth) high rocky hill on which Mehdia content. In a very bad Funduk we found shelter. Mehdia
is a little miserable Village, of perhaps two hundred inhabitants,
because of its dominant position it once was important and could be
on navigable Sebu, the river, at the Fez, is easily to a flourishing
city are made.

The mouth of the Sebu is not wider than perhaps 1000 steps, but very deep just below the city.
The Sebu pours but not in a straight line into the ocean, but is inclined obliquely to the north.
A strong bar locks the river from.

When I visited the place from the outside, I found below it a labyrinth of walls, 4 feet thick and
appear 20 feet tall made of solid stone, a network of square brick Areas representing. The people
interviewed knew about it not providing the information, but in Leo, we find complete information
about:

Jacob El Mansor, who reigned from 1184 to 1199, built as the entrance Vertheidigungsfeste of Cebu, was
later destroyed Mehdia and in 1515 sent Don Manuel of Portugal, a Fleet from there in order to create
a fortress.

Hardly realized under construction, but came to the Time in Fes reigning Sultan Mohammed ben
Oatas with an army and attacked soldiers and Workers. Leo, who was present as an eyewitness
to this attack, gives them a poignant Description. The Portuguese were all killed, burned the
ship.

From 6000-7000 men crew, induced by treachery stretching of arms, most people were massacred.
From the mouth of Sebu is said to have fished out the King of Fez afterwards 400 guns.

Later, on 6 August 1614, took the Spaniard again Mamora (as the Europeans and Mehdia called Leo),
built a fort, but which at the 2?. April 1681 [? unreadable in the was printed version] of
Muley Ismail attacked and destroyed. Since the time is Mehdia, what it is now a miserable
village.

What now regards the above-mentioned constructions, says Leo thereof
[127]: "The Portuguese began immediately after their arrival the building,
all foundations have been laid, the walls and bastions was a start
made, etc. "Such a work in progress, but not destroyed Impression
because the buildings at Mehdia.

      What Mamora antica concerned, probably the same to be looking at
the other bank of the Sebu, or perhaps the hills of the city, which
also was fixed, "Alt-Mamora," the most beautiful beaches of the Portuguese
construction undertaken on the other hand "New Marmora" have been.

But to want to search the remote Mulei Bu Slemmer Alt-Mamora is totally inadmissible, because
"Mamora" always a rocky hill means Tamasirht language, but in such a Bu Slemmer not present.

[Footnote
127: Translation of Lorsbach, p. 185th]

Barth adds, that by no means how to take the most geographers are inclined to Banasa have been
here (Hemsö says Banasa have located where now is Mulei Bu Slemmer,
a locality that has nothing welcoming establishing a city) which has
an inland city on the upper course of the Sebu been, but that in Mamora
by Ptolemy mentioned the city Subur was seen.

I should add that in the country among the natives of the Mamora Name completely unknown.

We
stayed in Mehdia only at night, leave early the next morning, we had lunch in Sla translated, and remained
the same in Rbat in a Funduk. The path offered nothing new, Nehrungformation was here only
to the local dunes are older because they were on the land side dense with oak trees, which bear an
extraordinarily delicate and sweet-tasting fruit, passed also cork
oak, and wild olive Lentisken were visible.

The city located on the right bank of the slave Rgak Bu or Bu-Raba [128], is a place which Viewed
from outside, the allerregelmässigste reputation. Almost square, the city is of high but unresisting
walls, which also have square Vertheidigungsthürme surrounded. With about 10,000 inhabitants, which
up to this day in Sla not Christians and Jews live is the basic assumption that the population
is mainly distributed from Spain Muslims formed, thus preserves the most ardent hatred against
Jews and Christians. On End of the last century, slaves, which the Moroccan rulers as against
almost gerirte as a republic, the most notorious pirate sitting on the Atlantic Ocean. In the port
of slaves and Arbat, or in the mouth of the Sebu, the pirates were
from the pursuing warships Christian safe sites. She'll be so rich and famous then we'll meet
all the lions and people worth knowing. Wilma and I will study designing and take painting
lessons, and we'll go to parties and concerts and have as many beaux as mamma had when she
was young. And, best of all, we'll repair Marchmont, and you are to come and live with us again.
That is part of sister's plan."

Mam Daphne listened with a look of incredulous wonder on her old face.

"Aw, go 'long, honey, you'se a-foolin' me!" she exclaimed, dipping her brush into the suds
again. But an eager voice in the doorway made her look up to see the careworn face of the oldest
sister.

"Yes, it's true, Mam Daphne," cried Agnes. "I am almost through, now, and as soon as these
noisy children are off to the picnic I shall begin my last chapter. I am just in the mood for
it, and I shall not even stop to get any lunch."

"Then I'll leave you a devilled egg and a spice cake to nibble on," said Wilma, "for there
won't be a crust of bread left in the house when this lunch is taken out of it. I'm glad genius
burns. What a heavenly day this is going to be for all of us!"

As she spoke, they were startled by a loud bang of the knocker on the big front door. Rarely
in their remembrance had the great brass griffin's head sent that hollow booming through the
hall. Since they had been living in the south wing the neighbours always came to the side entrance.

"Who can it be at this hour of the morning?" cried Claribel, dropping her iron and clutching
at her light curly hair, which was always in pretty disorder. "We're none of us dressed to
meet strangers. Run, Mam Daphne! How fortunate you are here to go to the door!"

A moment later the old coloured woman was fumbling at the long unused bolts, while the girls
listened breathlessly at the dining-room door. It was a lady's voice that reached them. Evidently
some one who had been at the house in its palmy days, for she recognised Mam Daphne as an old
servant.

"I want to see all the young ladies, Daphne," she said. "Tell them that it is Mrs. Gorham,
their mother's old friend and schoolmate, from Lexington. Tell them I am on my way to Louisville,
and have taken the liberty of stopping off to spend the day, without sending them word." Then,
as if to herself, they heard her say: "I've lived in Kentucky too long, and enjoyed Alice Mason's
hospitality too often not to be sure of a welcome from her daughters."

Wilma sank down limply in a disconsolate heap on the floor. "Oh, sister, what shall we do?"
she whispered to Agnes. "Must we give up the picnic, and that glorious ride home by moonlight,
when it's probably the only outing of the kind we'll have this summer? The boys were going
to take their banjos and mandolins, and they counted on us to help serenade--"

Claribel interrupted her with a grim face. "There's no help for it. Don't you see, Wilma, that
we've got to give it up? Don't you know that everything fit to eat in the house went into that
picnic basket? We can't go without it, and we can't take it and leave sister to entertain the
company without its help. But oh, it's certainly too provoking! Why, of all days in the year,
should she drop down on us to-day, when this is the first time she has been here since we were
out of the nursery!"

"I'm afraid there's nothing left for us to do but to keep up the old traditions, and entertain
her in the best style we can, dears," said Agnes, gently. "Poor mamma's best friend must be
showed the hospitality that she always found here. But, oh, girls, I did hope to finish that
book to-day! It may be weeks before I'm keyed up to the pitch again where I feel equal to writing
the climax as it should be done."

There were tears in Wilma's eyes as she carried the lunch-basket into the pantry, but she giggled
as, passing the old portraits on the stairs, as they went up to dress, Claribel shook her fist
in their faces.

"That's what we get for having the latch-string of our ancestors in our keeping," she exclaimed.
"It's pretty well frayed out by this time, and cannot stand many more strains like this. It
seems to me that we are sort of acting a lie. Mam Daphne will wait on the table to-day, and
Mrs. Gorham will see what a spread we have, and will think that we live that way all the time."

"Well," said Wilma, hopefully, "we will live that way all the time when sister's 'Romance of
Carrington' is published. How good it will be to feel able to ask the girls to stay to lunch
any time they happen to drop in, and not have to be wondering if the butter will hold out!"

Despite their disappointment, the day proved a pleasant one, for Mrs. Gorham brought with her
a breath from the outside world for which they longed. She entertained them with stories of
her travels, of her daughter's experiences at boarding-school and her son Tom's escapades at
college. She praised Claribel's embroidery and Wilma's little water-colour sketches, and she
left without discovering all the ravages time had wrought in beautiful old Marchmont. For they
sat out on the porch nearly all day, and the rose mantle of the Gloire de Dijon hid a multitude
of sins of omission in the way of neglected repairs.

Several days later, when Mrs. Gorham wrote to Agnes, thanking her for the pleasure the visit
had given her, she added: "I have talked so much about Marchmont since my return, of its roses,
of its hospitality and its charming girls, that Tom declares he intends to follow my example
and drop by some day for a call. He may carry out his threat this summer, as a little business
matter may call him to that part of the State. I have assured him your latch-string will be
out to him as it was to me, for old time's sake. I shall be very glad to have him know the
daughters of my old friend."

"Oh," cried Wilma, as Agnes read the letter aloud, "if he is half as interesting as his mother's
tales of him, he must be a real Prince Charming. But, oh, girls, don't you hope he'll wait
until 'Carrington' is out? It would be dreadfully embarrassing if, after his mother's account
of our hospitality, we could give him only scraps. There can't always be a picnic basket to
fall back on."

The prospective guest was often discussed during the summer that followed; and, although he
never came, Wilma was always alarming the family, when affairs were especially unpropitious,
by the query, "What if he should suddenly drop in upon us now?"

"There's no use of your crying 'wolf' any longer," said Claribel, impatiently, one rainy morning,
near the middle of September. "He's surely gone back to college by this time. What if a letter
did come to sister this morning, addressed in a strange handwriting? It is from some new man
on the Sentinel, probably."

"At any rate," insisted Wilma, "I wish it had come before sister went to town, and if it should
be from Mrs. Gorham's son, of all the unlucky days in creation, he couldn't have chosen a worse
time to arrive. The situation is absolutely hopeless."

The two girls were in the attic, arrayed in their oldest wrappers. Claribel, with her curly
hair carefully tied up in a towel, was ripping open an old feather bolster to convert it into
sofa pillows. Wilma, dragging out dusty boxes from under the eaves, was looking through them
for some remnants of linen for covers.

Their noses were blue with cold, for the wind whistled through the broken panes of the attic
windows. Early that morning Agnes had started on her weekly trip to town to the Sentinel's
office. Her face was white and set, and she had passed a sleepless night. The day before, her
manuscript, that was to have made the fortunes of her little world, was returned to her from
the publishers. It was more than a disappointment to the three who had counted so confidently
upon its success. It was almost a tragedy in the shattering of such high hopes. 

I'm suggesting only, but I seem to myself, I wu ͤ SSTE also lead auszufu ͤ as a school teacher
the country, and thousands more than I do.

This much is certain, I wa re ͤ school teacher, so I rde fu wu ͤ ͤ know r the first place only one
goal: to my Village verhochdeutschen to.

Nowhere fast wu rde ͤ I believe threshing, so long the sheaf of the High German language and
education me on the field, wa free ͤ grows.

A Bu ͤ rgerkrone ͤ wu rde to believe I deserve when I was at the age
retrofitted ͤ celebrities of: he has this spot, his village, the otherwise
dark, dull, flat German nest, with the Chain of civilization set in
contact by the extermination of Low German and insert ͤ Channel the
language of education in Germany.

Footnotes:

[1] However, with the exception of certain o ͤ locational and provincial variations, as in Hamburg,
Westphalen, Ditmarsch, where even the educated in the debate here really Speech is not include
any of the local inks.

[2] The witch trials, the floor lord with few exceptions, many after the Reformation and Hauptsa
ͤ in Protestant northern Germany GEFU ͤ were carried to which a belief in the influence of these
bo ͤ Spirits reason was that Luther, in melancholy Anfa ͤ cases often even with the Personal
perso ͤ it appears devil struggling, had only too much leads gena
ͤ this have Witch Trials Germany in the 17th century, perhaps more
people dead, as Spain, the Inquisition.

[3] Reineke de Vos is holla ͤ ndisches and French ͤ Saxon descent, although the Ma ͤ Hrchen of fox
and other animals Originally ͤ ACCESSIBLE so much in Germany than
in France exuberance went. The Low German translation seems to be
never been popular book, though she is very successful; ko nnte ͤ
you call it the swan song of this language.

[4], I wanted to this,
as I said, natural raw image of a more raised the play of imagination
ͤ stiffnecked adding or ͤ gene, so I compared the mere reading and
writing instruction in our country children with the unreasonableness
and folly of an Ackermann, who his field the tools for editing, Spade
and plow, for self-editing throws. Just above the attic window where they crouched, a grinning gargoyle spouted
a stream of water past the tiny diamond panes. Through this miniature cataract they watched
their departing guest. At the gate he turned for a long backward look, and they had a glimpse
of a handsome boyish face, as he gazed up at the stately pillared old mansion. The roses were
gone, and the rain beating against it made it look unspeakably old and cheerless. All the front
shutters were closed, and no smoke wreathed from any of its chimneys. Evidently he thought
the place deserted, seeing no signs of life anywhere about it.

As his gaze wandered upward to the grinning old gargoyle, the girls hastily drew back. When
they peeped out again, he had gone.

"Do you realise what we have done?" asked Claribel, with tears of mortification springing to
her eyes. "We have kept still and acted another lie for the sake of our ancestral latch-string.
Oh, why haven't we servants and plenty to eat and wear as they had in the good old times Mam
Daphne tells about, so that we could always be at home to everybody?"

"And he looked so interesting," wailed Wilma. "I'd love to know a man like that--a real, wide-awake
college fellow--and now he's walked right out of our lives as everything else worth while has
done. Now that 'Carrington' has failed and sister lost hope--"

She did not finish the sentence, but sat there on the attic floor in a disconsolate little
heap, staring out the tiny window while the rain beat a dirge on the leaky roof. Suddenly she
was startled by Claribel scrambling to her feet.

"You hear me, Wilma Mason," she cried. "I'll never be mortified again in this way! I don't
care what sister says, I am going to work for the honour of the family latch-string. I swear
this shall never happen again." Her tragic manner was in such comical contrast to her befeathered
appearance that Wilma laughed, for the first time since the return of the manuscript. Then
they went down to rekindle the kitchen fire, and plan for the repairing of their family fortunes.

"I don't know what practical shape your fine resolutions will take," said Wilma, as they took
their bread and tea at lunch, "but for my part, no one shall ever again look at that poor old
broken-hinged gate with the quizzical glance Tom gave it. His very eyebrows seemed to say 'Lor',
how shiftless!' I shall put on a new hinge myself as soon as it stops raining. There's a big
box of screws and locks and things down in the granary, and the remains of a tool-chest."

Once started on her round of repairs, Wilma found herself viewing the entire premises from
the standpoint of the sharp gray eyes that had looked so reprovingly at the broken-hinged gate.

"If Tom ever comes here again," she vowed to herself, "he shall not see this grand old place
in such a pitiful state of dilapidation. He conceded that he was concerned about his lack of cardinal
accusations of ambition made him repeat his antipathy insured and warned him have.

Meanwhile, he remembered now.

At that time, but the act committed against him have it worse than murder, in a cruel injustice, a hellish
cruelty gedeucht. At the lowest've met him, that they go unpunished by the Duke had remained.
The indifference of the ruling brother had broken his heart, and he had only thought of vengeance.
Now, however, he preferred that these be broke while that new blood on his hands, especially
since the spilled blood of his brothers, his Princes!

Don Ferrante, however, told the Ferrarese, that although neither denied, but after his cynical
way, not only the court but also the sovereignty of the Duke and the Cardinal in shame and scorn
ueberschuettet. Those he had a narrow brain case, this a philosopher of the crime mentioned.
Then he had made to the court the suggestion that him from his treasures confiscated purple and gold
with a precious Hofnarrenkleide deliver a fool's cap and gown for the Hofschneider this great
customize it to leave. For it was, he based his request, the Fool, which has always been in him
cowering, broken out in the days of clarity, and that his intimate
personality desires to make the leap into the void to pay proper dress
and Schellengelaeute.

This request was denied him from consideration for the Duke.

Ask Don Giulio had very different set. This had behaved in prison, so simple as in court. At first
he was crying like a child, until the source of tears dried up completely
was. Then, after he endured long days of his brother, whose godless
blasphemy and Flash antics attacked him until the pain and fatigued,
he asked for his own Palace was and the company of his confessor,
the priest of Mamette Pratello.

"You know that the designing alone would be worth four times that sum, madame," she said, quietly.
"If that is the best you can do, we will not discuss the subject farther."

Madame hastily retracted then. She knew it would never do to let this opportunity slip into
the hands of a rival, and the names of Claribel's references were too prominent to overlook.
So a little later, when the next train bore the excited young girl homeward, it was a triumphant
voice that poured out the story of her success to Wilma, who met her at the gate.

"And at a salary that will put new shingles on old Marchmont," she cried, "and put Daphne in
the kitchen, and picnic fare in the pantry every day."

"You needn't think you're going to do it all," exclaimed Wilma. "This very day I discovered
all the old hothouse frames stored away in the carriage-house, as good as new; and Mam Daphne
told me so many tales about the violets and the lettuce that used to be the boast of Marchmont
every winter, that I went over to consult papa's old gardener. Sister has actually consented
to let me try my hand at raising both. I haven't told her yet that it is my ambition to furnish
the fashionable club houses this winter with extra fine lettuce at fancy prices. Poor sister!
She'll be horrified, after all her precautions, to have one of us turn out a market-gardener
and the other a dressmaker." As slaves, the blacks in Morocco treated well set and almost
always after a shorter or longer time in freedom. The number of blacks in Morocco, which is
constantly renewed by new supplies from Central Africa, is expected to approximately 50.000 quantify.

The
Moroccan residents, renegades barely earn a mention.

It is usually the Scum of society, convicts, the Spanish in the Praesidos Ceuta, Melilla, and
Penon de la Gomera Alhucanas have escaped.
 Then I began to trace it back and found that
it began in the door of a pioneer log cabin; and oh, what do you think, Claribel, the two ancestors
we are proudest of, the ones we all quote the oftenest, and plume ourselves the most on being
their descendants, had to dig and delve for everything they got. Old Mrs. Carter told me so
this morning." She pointed to the two portraits that headed the long line. "Now if sister makes
any objections to our plans, I'll just refer her to the first of the grandmammas who made our
hospitality proverbial, and, hardening her hands with the work of the wilderness, was yet the
truest gentlewoman of them all."

THE END. Often, however, ruled three
kings or sultans next to each other, hence the name Kingdom of Fez, Tafilet, Morocco. But
never, we want to emphasize, especially because now the gate and the sovereignty of Morocco claim
seems to want is in the real Morocco, located west of the Muluya, any how or any where a Turkish
Pasha as ruler of his master, the Sultan of the Turks, been seen.

In general, the terms of the people of the Muslim religion are very superficial and confused.

