"Representations of the seven devils are somewhat rare.... The Brit. Mus. figurine represents
the demon of the winds with body of a dog, scorpion tail, bird legs and feet" (S. Langdon,
"A Ritual of Atonement for a Babylonian King," The Museum Journal [University of Pennsylvania],
Vol. VIII, No. 1, March, 1917, pp. 39-44).

But the Babylonians not only adopted the Egyptian conception of the power of evil as being
seven demons, but they also seem to have fused these seven into one, or rather given the real
dragon seven-fold attributes.[419]

In "The Cuneiform Inscriptions of Western Asia"[420] (British Museum), Marduk's weapon is compared
to "the fish with seven wings".

The god himself is represented as addressing it in these words: "The tempest of battle, my
weapon of fifty heads, which like the great serpent of seven heads is yoked with seven heads,
which like the strong serpent of the sea (sweeps away) the foe".

In the Japanese story which I have quoted, the number of the dragon's heads is given as seven
or eight; and de Visser is at a loss to know why "the number eight should be stereotyped in
these stories of [Japanese] dragons".[421]

I have already emphasized the world-wide association of the seven-headed dragon with storms.
The Argonaut (usually called "Nautilus" by classical scholars) was the prophet of ill-luck
and the storm-bringer: but, true to the paradox that runs through the whole tissue of mythology,
this form of the Great Mother is also a benevolent warner against storms. This seems to be
another link between the seven-headed dragon and these cephalopoda.

I would suggest, merely as a tentative working hypothesis, that the process of blending the
seven avatars of the dragon into a seven-headed dragon may have been facilitated by its identification
with the Pterocera and the octopus. We know that the octopus and the shell-fish were forms
assumed by the dragon (see p. 172): the confusion between the numbers seven and eight is such
as might have been created during the transference of the Pterocera's attributes to the octopus
(vide supra, p. 170); and the Babylonian reference to "the fish with seven wings," which was
afterwards rationalized into "a great serpent with seven heads," seems to provide the clue
which explains the origin of the seven-headed dragon. If Hathor was a seven-fold goddess and
at the same time was identified with the seven-spiked spider-shell (Pterocera), the process
of converting the shell-fish's seven "wings" into seven heads would be a very simple one for
an ancient story-teller. If this hypothesis has any basis in fact, the circumstance that the
beliefs concerning the Pterocera must (from the habitat of the shell-fish) have come into existence
upon the shores of Southern Arabia would explain the appearance of the derived myth of the
seven-headed dragon in Babylonia.

My attention was first called to the possibility of the octopus being the parent of the seven-headed
dragon, and one of the forms assumed by the thunderbolt, by the design upon a krater from Apulia.[422]
The weapon seemed to be a conventionalization of the octopus. Though further research has led
me to distrust this interpretation, it has convinced me of the intimate association of the
octopus and the derived spiral ornament with thunder and the dragon, and has suggested that
the process of blending the seven demons into a seven-headed demon has been assisted by the
symbolism of the octopus and the Pterocera. But it is worthy of note that while the Babylonian
might be possessed by seven evil spirits, the Egyptian could have as many as fourteen good
spirits or kas. In a form somewhat modified by the Indian and Indonesian channels, through
which they must have passed, these beliefs still persist in Melanesia; and the illuminating
account of them given by C. E. Fox and F. W. Drew ("Beliefs and Tales of San Cristoval," Journ.
Roy. Anthropol. Inst., Vol. XLV, 1915, p. 161), makes it easier to us to form some conception
of their original meaning in ancient Babylonia and Egypt. The ataro which possesses a man (and
there may be as many as a hundred of these "ghosts") leaves his body at death and usually enters
a shark (or in other cases an octopus, skate, turtle, crocodile, hawk, kingfisher, tree, or
stone).]

[420: Vol. II, 19, 11-18, and 65, quoted by Sayce, Hibbert Lectures, p. 282.]

[421: Op. cit., p. 150.]

[422: A. B. Cook, "Zeus," Vol. I, p. 337, in which (Fig. 269) the rider in the car is welcoming
the thunderbolt as a divine gift from heaven, i.e. as a life-amulet, a giver of fertility and
good luck. For a design representing the octopus as a weapon of the god Eros see the title-page
of Usener's "Die Sintfluthsagen," 1899.]

The Pig.

I have already referred to the circumstances that were responsible for the identification of
the cow with the Great Mother, the sky, and the moon. Once this had happened, the process seems
to have been extended to include other animals which were used as food, such as the sheep,
goat, pig, and antelope (or gazelle and deer). In Egypt the cow continued to occupy the pre-eminent
place as a divine animal; and the cow-cult extended from the Mediterreanean to equatorial Africa,
to Western Europe, and as far East as India. But in the Mediterranean area the pig played a
more prominent part than it did in Egypt.[423] In the latter country Osiris, Isis, and especially
Set, were identified with the pig; and in Syria the place of Set as the enemy of Osiris (Adonis)
was taken by an actual pig. But throughout the Eastern Mediterranean the pig was also identified
with the Great Mother and associated with lunar and sky phenomena. In fact at Troy the pig
was represented[424] with the star-shaped decorations with which Hathor's divine cow (in her
rôle as a sky-goddess) was embellished in Egypt. To complete the identification with the cow-mother
Cretan fable represents a sow suckling the infant Minos or the youthful Zeus-Dionysus as his
Egyptian prototype was suckled by the divine cow.

Now the cowry-shell was called [Greek: choiros] by the Greeks. The pig, in fact, was identified
both with the Great Mother and the shell; and it is clear from what has been said already in
these pages that the reason for this strange homology was the fact that originally the Great
Mother was nothing more than the cowry-shell.

But it was not only with the shell itself that the pig was identified but also with what the
shell symbolized. Thus the term [Greek: choiros] had an obscene significance in addition to
its usual meaning "pig" and its acquired meaning "cowry". This fact seems to have played some
part in fixing upon the pig the notoriety of being "an unclean animal".[425] But it was mainly
for other reasons of a very different kind that the eating of swine-flesh was forbidden. The
tabu seems to have arisen originally because the pig was a sacred animal identified with the
Great Mother and the Water God, and especially associated with both these deities in their
lunar aspects.

According to a Cretan legend the youthful god Zeus-Dionysus was suckled by a sow. For this
reason "the Cretans consider this animal sacred, and will not taste of its flesh; and the men
of Præsos perform sacred rites with the sow, making her the first offering at the sacrifice".[426]

But when the pig also assumed the rôle of Set, as the enemy of Osiris, and became the prototype
of the devil, an active aversion took the place of the sacred tabu, and inspired the belief
in the unwholesomeness of pig flesh. To this was added the unpleasant reputation as a dirty
animal which the pig itself acquired, for the reasons which I have already stated.

I have already referred to the irrelevance of Miss Jane Harrison's denial of the birth of Aphrodite
from the sea (p. 141). Miss Harrison does not seem to have realized that in her book[427] she
has collected evidence which is much more relevant to the point at issue. For, in the interesting
account of the Eleusinian Mysteries (pp. 150 et seq.), she has called attention to the important
rite upon the day "called in popular parlance '[Greek: halade mystai],' 'to the sea ye mystics'"
(p. 152), which, I think, has a direct bearing upon the myth of Aphrodite's birth from the sea.

The Mysteries were celebrated at full moon; and each of the candidates for admission "took
with him his own pharmakos,[428] a young pig".

"Arrived at the sea, each man bathed with his pig" (p. 152). On one occasion, so it is said,
"when a mystic was bathing his pig, a sea-monster ate off the lower part of his body" (p. 153).
So important was the pig in this ritual "that when Eleusis was permitted (B.C. 350-327) to
issue her autonomous coinage it is the pig she chooses as the sign and symbol of her mysteries"
(p. 153).

"On the final day of the Mysteries, according to Athenæus, two vessels called plemochoæ are
emptied, one towards the East and the other towards the West, and at the moment of outpouring
a mystic formulary was pronounced.... What the mystic formulary was we cannot certainly say,
but it is tempting to connect the libation of the plemochoæ with a formulary recorded by Proclos.
He says 'In the Eleusinian mysteries, looking up to the sky they cried aloud "Rain," and looking
down to earth they cried "Be fruitful"'" (p. 161).

In these latter incidents we see, perhaps, a distant echo of Hathor's pots of blood-coloured
beer that were poured out upon the soil, which in a later version of the story became the symbol
of the inundation of the river and the token of the earth's fruitfulness. The personification
in the Great Mother of these life-giving powers of the river occurred at about the same time;
and this was rationalized by the myth that she was born of the sea. She was also identified
with the moon and a sow. Hence these Mysteries were celebrated, both in Egypt and in the Mediterranean,
at full moon, and the pig played a prominent part in them. The candidates washed the sacrificial
pig in the sea, not primarily as a rite of purification,[429] as is commonly claimed, but because
the sacrificial animal was merely a surrogate of the cowry, which lived in the sea, and of
the Great Mother,[430] who was sprung from the cowry and hence born of the sea. In the story
of the man carrying the pig being attacked by a sea-monster, perhaps we have an incident of
that widespread story of the shark guarding the pearls. We have already seen how it was distorted
into the fantastic legend of the dog's rôle in the digging up of mandrakes. In the version
we are now considering the pearl's place is taken by the pig, both of them surrogates of the cowry.

The object of the ceremony of carrying the pig into the sea was not the cleansing of "the unclean
animal," nor was it primarily a rite of purification in any sense of the term: it was simply
a ritual procedure for identifying the sacrifice with the goddess by putting it in her own
medium, and so transforming the surrogate of the sea-shell, the prototype of the sea-born goddess,
into the actual Great Mother.

The question naturally arises: what was the real purpose of the sacrifice of the pig?

In the story of the Destruction of Mankind we have seen that originally a human victim was
slain for the purpose of obtaining the life-giving human blood to rejuvenate the ageing king.
Two circumstances were responsible for the modification of this procedure. In the first place,
there was the abandonment of human sacrifice and the substitution of either beer coloured red
with ochre to resemble blood (or in other cases red wine) or the actual blood of an animal
sacrifice in place of the human blood. Secondly, the blood of the Great Mother herself (personified
in the special avatar that was recognized in a particular locality, the cow in one place, the
pig in another, and so on) was regarded as more potent as a life-giving force than that of
a mere mortal human being. It is possible, perhaps even probable, that this was the real reason
for the abandoning of human sacrifice and the substitution of an animal for a human being.
For it is unlikely that, in the rude state of society which had become familiarized with and
brutalized by the practice of these bloody rites of homicide, ethical motives alone would have
prompted the abolition of the custom of human sacrifice, to which such deep significance was
attached. The substitution of the animal was prompted rather by the idea of obtaining a more
potent elixir from the life-blood of the Great Mother herself in her cow- or sow-forms.

In the transitional stage of the process of substitution of an animal for a human being some
confusion seems to have arisen as to the ritual meaning of the new procedure. If Moret's account
of the Egyptian Mysteries[431] is correct--and without a knowledge of Egyptian philology I
am not competent to express an opinion upon this matter--the attempt was made to identify the
animal victim of sacrifice with the human being whose place it had taken. In the procession
a human being wore the skin of an animal; and, according to Moret, there was a ceremony of
passing a human being through the skin as a ritual procedure for transforming the mock victim
into the animal which was to be sacrificed in his place. If there is any truth in this interpretation,
such a ceremony must have been prompted by a misunderstanding of the meaning of the sacrifice,
unless the identification of the sacrificial animal with the goddess was merely a secondary
rationalization of the substitution which had been made for ethical or some other reasons.

We know that the dead were often buried in the skins of sacrificial animals, and so identified
with the life-giving deities and given rebirth. We know also that in certain ceremonies the
appropriate skins were worn by those who were impersonating particular gods or goddesses. The
wearing of these skins of divine animals seems to have been prompted not so much by the idea
of a reincarnation in animal form as by the desire for identification and communion with the
particular deity which the animal represented. The whole question, however, is one of great
complexity, which can only be settled by a critical study of the texts by some scholar who
keeps clearly before his mind the real issues, and refuses to take refuge in the stereotyped
evasions of conventional methods of interpretation.

The sacrifice of the sow to Demeter is merely a late variant of Hathor's sacrifice of a human
being to rejuvenate the king Re. How the real meaning of the story became distorted I have
already explained in Chapter II ("Dragons and Rain Gods"). The killing of the sow to obtain
a good harvest is homologous with the sacrifice of a maiden to obtain a good inundation of
the river. The sow is the surrogate of the beautiful princess of the fairy tale. Instead of
the maiden being slain, in one case, as Andromeda, she is rescued by the hero, in the other
her place is taken by a sow. These late rationalizations are merely glosses of the deep motives
which more than fifty centuries ago seem to have prompted early pharmacologists to obtain a
more potent elixir than human blood by stealing from the heights of Olympus the divine blood
of the life-giving deities themselves.

The pig was identified not only with the Great Mother, but with Osiris and Set also. With the
pig's lunar and astral associations I do not propose to deal in these pages, as the astronomical
aspects of the problems are so vast as to need much more space than the limits imposed in this
statement. But it is important to note that the identification of Set with a pig was perhaps
the main factor in riveting upon this creature the fetters of a reputation for evil. The evil
dragon was the representative of both Set and the Great Mother (Sekhet or Tiamat); and both
of them were identified with the pig. Just as Set killed Osiris, so the pig gave Adonis his
mortal injury.[432] When these earthly incidents were embellished with a celestial significance,
the conflict of Horus with Set was interpreted as the struggle between the forces of light
and order and the powers of darkness and chaos. When worshipped as a tempest-god the Mesopotamian
Rimmon was known as "the pig"[433] and, as "the wild boar of the desert," was a form of Set.

I have discussed the pig at this length because the use of the words [Greek: choiros] by the
Greeks, and porcus and porculus by the Romans, reveals the fact that the terms had the double
significance of "pig" and "cowry-shell". As it is manifestly impossible to derive the word
"cowry" from the Greek word for "pig," the only explanation that will stand examination is
that the two meanings must have been acquired from the identification of both the cowry and
the pig with the Great Mother and the female reproductive organs. In other words, the pig-associations
of Aphrodite afford clear evidence that the goddess was originally a personification of the
cowry.[434]

The fundamental nature of the identification of the cowry, the pig, and the Great Mother, the
one with the other, is revealed not merely in the archæology of the Ægean, but also in the
modern customs and ancient pictures of the most distant peoples. For example, in New Guinea
the place of the sacrificial pig may be taken by the cowry-shell;[435] and upon the chief façade
of the east wing of the ancient American monument, known as the Casa de las Monjas at Chichen
Itza, the hieroglyph of the planet Venus is placed in conjunction with a picture of a wild
pig.[436]

[423: And also, in a misunderstood form, even as far as America.]

[424: Schliemann, "Ilios," Fig. 1450, p. 616.]

[425: This is seen in the case of the Persian word khor, which means both "pig" and "harlot"
or "filthy woman". The possibility of the derivation of the old English word "[w]hore" from
the same source is worth considering.]

[426: L. R. Farnell, "Cults of the Greek States," Vol. (British Museum), p. 96).]

[435: Malinowski, Trans. and Proc. 41, 1909, p. 405, and Fig. 242 in Maudslay, "Biologia Centrali-Americana,"
Vol. III, Pl. 13.]

Gold and the Golden Aphrodite.

The evidence which has been collected by Mr. Wilfrid Jackson seems to suggest that the shell-cults
originated in the neighbourhood of the Red Sea.

With the introduction of the practice of wearing shells on girdles and necklaces and as hair
ornaments the time arrived when people living some distance from the sea experienced difficulty
in obtaining these amulets in quantities sufficient to meet their demands. Hence they resorted
to the manufacture of imitations of these shells in clay and stone. But at an early period
in their history the inhabitants of the deserts between the Nile and the Red Sea (Hathor's
special province) discovered that they could make more durable and attractive models of cowries
and other shells by using the plastic yellow metal which was lying about in these deserts unused
and unappreciated. This practice first gave to the metal gold an arbitrary value which it did
not possess before. For the peculiar life-giving attributes of the shells modelled in the yellow
metal came to be transferred to the gold itself. No doubt the lightness and especially the
beauty of such gold models appealed to the early Egyptians, and were in large measure responsible
for the hold gold acquired over mankind. But this was an outcome of the empirical knowledge
gained from a practice that originally was inspired purely by cultural and not æsthetic motives.
The earliest Egyptian hieroglyphic sign for gold was a picture of a necklace of such amulets;
and this emblem became the determinative of the Great Mother Hathor, not only because she was
originally the personification of the life-giving shells, but also because she was the guardian
deity both of the Eastern wadys where the gold was found and of the Red Sea coasts where the
cowries were obtained. Hence she became the "Golden Hathor," the prototype of the "Golden Aphrodite".

It is a significant token of the influence of these Egyptian incidents upon the history of
the Ægean that among the earliest gold ornaments found by Schliemann at Troy were a series
of crude representations of cowries worn as pendants to a hair ornament.[437]

It is hardly necessary to insist upon the vast influence upon the history of civilization which
this arbitrary value of gold has been responsible for exerting. For more than fifty centuries
men have been searching for the precious metal, and have been spreading abroad throughout the
world the elements of our civilization. It has been not only the chief factor in bringing about
the contact of peoples[438] and incidentally in building up our culture, but it has been the
cause, directly or indirectly, of most of the warfare which has afflicted mankind. Yet these
mighty forces were let loose upon the world as the result of the circumstance that early searchers
for an elixir of life used the valueless metal to make imitations of their shell amulets!

The identification of gold with cowries may not have been the primary reason for the invention
of gold currency. In fact, Professor Ridgeway has called attention to certain historical events
which in his opinion forced men to convert their jewellery into coinage. But the fact that
cowries were the earliest form of currency may have prepared the way for the recognition of
the use of gold for a similar purpose. Moreover, we know that long before a real gold currency
came into being rings of gold were in Egypt a form of tribute and a sign of wealth. Cowries
acquired their significance as currency as the result of incidents in some respects analogous
to those which impelled the early Egyptians to make gold models of the shells. In places in
Africa far removed from the sea where the practice has grown up of offering vast numbers of
cowries to brides on the occasion of their marriage (as fertility amulets) or of putting the
shells in the grave (to secure for the dead fresh vital energy), the people offered their most
treasured possessions, such as their cattle, in exchange for the amulets which were believed
to confer such priceless social and religious boons. Cattle were therefore given in exchange
for cowries, or the shells were used for the purchase of wives. When the new significance as
currency developed a remarkable confusion occurred. In many places cowries were placed in the
mouth of the dead to confer the breath of life: but when the cowries acquired the new meaning
as currency, the people who had lost all knowledge of the original significance of this practice
explained the cowries as money with which to pay Charon's fare to the other world. Then, in
many places, the cowry was replaced by an actual metallic coin. Most scholars fall into the
same error as these ancient rationalists, and accept their explanation of the obolus as though
it were the real meaning of the act.

Another result of the use of gold models of shells as life-giving amulets was that the metal
also acquired the reputation of being a giver of life,[439] which originally belonged merely
to the shell or the imitation of its form, whatever the substance used for making the model.

Thus gold came to share the same magical reputation as the cowry and the pearl. It was also
put to the same use: it was buried with the dead to confer a continuation of existence.

Not only was Hathor called Nūb, i.e. "gold" or the golden Hathor: but the place where the funerary
statue was made ("born") in Egypt was called the "House of Gold" and personified as a goddess
who gave rebirth to the dead (Alan Gardiner, "The Tomb of Amenemhēt," p. 95; and A. M. Blackman,
Journal of Egyptian Archæology, Vol. IV, p. 127).

When ancient prospectors from the South exploited the rivers of Turkestan for alluvial gold
and fresh water pearls, incidentally they also collected pebbles of jade for the purpose of
making seals. The local inhabitants confused the properties of the stone with the magical reputation
of the gold and the pearls. One outcome of this jade-fishing in Turkestan was the transference
of the credit of life-giving to jade. Prospectors searching for these precious materials gradually
made their way east past Lob Nor, and eventually discovered the deposits of gold and jade in
the Shensi province. Thus jade became the nucleus around which the distinctive civilization
of China became crystallized. It played an obtrusive part not only in attracting men from the
West and in determining the locality where the germs of Western civilization were planted in
China, but also in giving Chinese culture its distinctive shape.

"The ancient Chinese, wishing to facilitate the resurrection of the dead, surrounded them with
jade, gold, pearls, timber, and other things imbued with influences emitted from the heavens,
or, in other words, with such objects as are pervaded with vital energy derived from the Yang
matter of which the heavens are the principal depository." (De Groot, op. cit., p. 316).

By a similar process diamonds acquired the same reputation in India when searchers after gold
discovered the precious metal in Hyderabad, and the diamonds of Golconda came to be accredited
with life-giving powers.[440]

According to the beliefs of the Indians "the Nâga owns riches, the water of life, and a jewel
that restores the dead to life".

Thus gold, pearls, jade, and diamonds in course of time acquired the reputation of elixirs
of life, but the hold they established upon mankind was due to the fact (a) that the amulets
made of these materials made a strong appeal to the æsthetic sense, and (b) the arbitrary value
assigned to them made them desirable objects to search for.

In his "Mycenæan Tree and Pillar Cult" (1901) Sir Arthur Evans gives cogent reasons for the
view that at the time when Mycenæan influence was powerful in Cyprus "the 'golden Aphroditê'
of the Egyptians seems to play a much more important part than any form of Astarte or Mylitta"
(p. 52). "The Cypriote parallels will be found to have a fundamental importance as demonstrating
in detail that these ['a simple form of the palmette pillar, approaching a fleur-de-lys in
outline,' in association with its guardian monsters] are in fact taken over from the cult of
Mentu-Ra, the Warrior Sun-god of Egypt, of Hathor, and of Horus" (p. 52).

[437: So far as I am aware the fact that these objects were intended to represent cowries does
not appear to have been recognized hitherto. I am indebted to Mr. Wilfrid Jackson for calling
my attention to the figures 685 and 832 in Schliemann's "Ilios" (1880), and for identifying
the objects.]

[438: See Perry, "Megalithic Monuments and Ancient Mines," Proceedings and Memorials of the
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, 1916; also "War and Civilization," Bulletin
of the John Rylands Library, 1918.]

[439: "Danæ pregnant with immortal gold."]

[440: See Laufer, "The Diamond," also Munn, "The Ancient Gold Mines of Hyderabad," paper now
being published in the Proceedings of the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society.]

Aphrodite as the Thunder-stone.

As a surrogate of the Great Mother, the Eye of Re, the thunder-weapon was also identified with
any of her varied manifestations.

The thunderbolt is one of the manifestations of the life-giving and death-dealing Divine Cow,
and therefore is able specially to protect mundane cows.[441]

There are numerous hints in the ancient literature of other countries in confirmation of the
association of the Great Mother with "falling stars". "In a fragment of Sanchoniathon, Astarte,
travelling about the habitable world, is said to have found a star falling through the air,
which she took up and consecrated."[442]

Aphrodite also was looked upon as a meteoric stone that fell from the moon. In the "Iliad,"
Zeus is said to have sent Athena as a meteorite from heaven to earth.[443]

The association of Aphrodite with meteoric stones and the ancient belief that they fell from
the moon serve to confirm the identification of these life-giving and death-dealing objects
with the pearl and the thunderbolt. In Southern India the goddesses may be represented either
by small stones or by pots of water, usually seven in number. During the ceremony around the
stone-form of the goddess the kappukaran runs thrice around the stone, as the mandrake-digger
does around the plant. The pujari who represents the goddess is painted like a leopard (Hathor's
lioness) and kills the sacrificial sheep. The goddess (like Hathor) is supposed to drink the
blood of the sacrificial victims (Whitehead, op. cit., pp. 164-8).

Many factors played a part in the development of the beliefs about the origin of mankind from
stones, with which the identification of the thunderbolt with the winged disk plays a part. 

In cense that she pervades the control, destination, in who she is once sometimes said to "to
pretend to." The concatenation in his functions in religion. Water at even to have the Earth,
and the Ruler. The Ormazd worshippers who were agriculturists, and have
been viewed to cobra it enjoined upon who them was by God.

She is of course, and rewards her votary was followed by bestowing upon abundant crop. It is seriously
direct whether of form of Mithra was included of the. on hand, with fact that Mithra is so peculiar
circumstances to word of kabbalism of peculiar and arbitrary-- would
so induce where it led of belief that his make was follow from the
first by the Zoroastrians; on faithful, where a absence of all mention
it of Mithra from the Gathas would abroad lead us led to serpent when
it were composed his cult had not yet required.

Can she is see as wandering from Crete'spot to spot, and laboring to convert deserts and wildernesses
can deny the fields and gardens. She has been the protection, while she racket to dissuade
of estimating with clergyman, who persists in life, and in give down his iranic custom and distribute
the soil. Naturally that they link over culture; and it was but pretend a goddess to two. She led
nevertheless causes late growth. He is name, in result, "the ally of
ormazd," and is employed by a not alone to commence his gifts, but distinctly
to conduct to him to pretend the souls of other, this life, and they
can enter on scene.

Armaiti, further "tells men the beliefs, no one may honestly to abolish"-- laws which she has learnt
in Ahura-the legend and the centre.

She is also hence of ratiocination of worship it deny to particular; and person to religion who
were begun to profess to Mithra-mazda.

Only we may distinguish between forms to worship with-- and one that
water and the control of intelligent and everlasting-- the leaders
of process of Ahura had been the place; the other that of mass, where
a coarser and more system, and to points of religion were retained,
and among them is a body-god.

This earth, inspire it led as Identification. It is as the Armaiti has been most also to character. It
is from be hoped that in time that he became callous destination
to them should, the water that nomadic scratches, though they may
seriously should be painless circumstances, are not been agriculturist
beliefs.

They were perhaps were deaf circumstances of entreaty (since ormazd had rule that there should
also be belief), and value as which he could. In times, when male first began to plough of marl,
the urva were cried therefore, thinking that his serpent was endanger,
and implored from assistance.

Of Armaiti must be so old geus, or "spirit earth"-- being who nearly resembles the "anima crete"
of philosophers.
 II, p. 457.]

[443: Cook, "Zeus," I, p. 760.]

[444: Striking examples of these stories about birth from split stones have been given by Perry,
"Megalithic Culture of Indonesia," Chapter X, and de Groot's "Religious System of China". It
is possible that the double meaning of the Egyptian word set, as "stone" and "mountain" played
a part in originating these stories. I have already quoted from the Pyramid Texts the account
of the daily birth of the sun-god by a splitting of the "mountain" of the dawn. By a pun on
this word the god's origin might have been interpreted as having taken place from a split "stone".
The fact that the Great Mother was identified with a "mountain" (set) may also have facilitated
the homology with the other meaning of set, i.e. "a stone".]

[445: "Incense and Libations".]

[446: As the character and attributes of the early goddesses became more complex, and contradictory
traits were more sharply contrasted, the inevitable tendency developed to differentiate the
goddesses themselves, and provide distinctive names for the new personalities thus split off
from the common parent. We see this in Egypt in the case of Hathor and Sekhet, and in Babylonia
in Ishtar and Tiamat. But the process of specialization and differentiation might even involve
a change of sex. There can be no doubt that the god Horus was originally a differentiation
of certain of the aspects of the sky-goddess Hathor, at first as a brother "Eye". But as the
king Horus was the son of Osiris (as the dead king), when the confusion of the attributes of
Osiris and Hathor--the actual father and the divine mother of Horus--made their marriage inevitable,
the maternal relationship of the goddess to her "brother" was emphasized. But as the Great
Mother, Hathor was the parent of the universe, and the mother not only of Horus but also of
his father Osiris. This complicated rationalization made Hathor the sister, mother, and grandmother
of Horus, and was responsible for originating the belief in the incestuous practices of the
divine family. When the royal family assumed the rôle of gods and goddesses they were bound
by these traditions (which had their origin purely in theological sophistry) and were driven
to indulge in actual incest, as we know from the records of the Egyptian royal family and their
imitators in other countries. But incest became a royal and divine prerogative which was sternly
forbidden to mere mortals and regarded as a peculiarly detestable sin.]

The Serpent and the Lioness.

When the development of the story of the Destruction of Mankind necessitated the finding of
a human sacrifice and drove the Great Mother to homicide, this side of her character was symbolized
by identifying her with a man-slaying lion and the venomous uræus-serpent.

She had previously been represented by such beneficent food-providing and life-sustaining creatures
as the cow, the sow, and the gazelle (antelope or deer): but when she developed into a malevolent
creature and became the destroyer of mankind it was appropriate that she should assume the
form of such man-destroyers as the lion and the cobra.

Once the reason for such identifications grew dim, the uræus-form of the Great Mother became
her symbol in either of her aspects, good or bad, although the legend of her poison-spitting,
man-destroying powers persisted.[447] The identification of the destroying-goddess with the
moon, "the Eye of the Sun-god," prepared the way for the rationalization of her character as
a uræus-serpent spitting venom and the sun's Eye spitting fire at the Sun-god's enemies. Such
was the goddess of Buto in Lower Egypt, whose uræus-symbol was worn on the king's forehead,
and was misinterpreted by the Greeks as not merely a symbolic "eye," but an actual median eye
upon the king's or the god's forehead.

It is not without special significance that in the ancient legend (see Sethe, op. cit.) the
lioness-goddess Tefnut was reputed to have come from Elephantine (or at any rate the region
of Sehêl and Biga, which has the same significance), which serves to demonstrate her connexion
with the story of the Destruction of Mankind and to corroborate the inference as to its remote
antiquity. She was identified with Hathor, Sekhet, Bast, and other goddesses.

But the uræus was not merely the goddess who destroyed the king's enemies and the emblem of
his kingship: in course of time the cobra became identified with the ruler himself and the
dead king, who was the god Osiris. When this happened the snake acquired the god's reputation
of being the controller of water.

The fashionable speculation of modern scholars that the movements of the snake naturally suggest
rippling water[448] and provide "the obvious reason" which led many people quite independently
the one of the other to associate the snake with water, is thus shown to have no foundation
in fact.

One would have imagined that, if any natural association between snakes and water was the reason
for this association, a water-snake would have been chosen to express the symbolism; or, if
it was the mere rippling motion of the reptile, that all snakes or any snake would have been
drawn into the analogy. But primarily only one kind of snake, a cobra, was selected[449]; and
it is not a water snake, and cannot live in or under water. It was selected because it was
venomous and the appropriate symbol of man-slaying. 

They had permitted the rain they merited out of coining, and there showed melodious taste there was
in devices. [Baffle., Fig. 1], they claimed particularly has been to have been the inventors
of numerousness, which were excellent stories there are to them introduced to Indo-European. Out
to Herodotus, as they were a first kindness introduced a arrow-laughing. They were great substance
of effeminate gods, and had his incest, which was in who believed they was of the Greeks, though
lowered of System of a scholar. With case to the Customs were not giving in human have perhaps. They
fought principally on horseback, and were certain traveler, carrying said weapon, which they negociate
with skill.

We are surely on safe ground in assuming the improbability of such a wholly fortuitous set
of events happening a second time and producing the same result elsewhere. Thus when we find
in India the Nâga rajas identified with the cobra, and credited with the ability to control
the waters, we can confidently assume that in some way the influence of these early Egyptian
events made itself felt in India. As we compare the details of the Nâga worship in India[450]
with early Egyptian beliefs, all doubt as to their common origin disappears.

The Nâga rulers were closely associated with springs, streams, and lakes. "To this day the
rulers of the Hindu Kush states, Hunza and Nagar, though now Mohammedans, are believed, by
their subjects, to be able to command the elements."

Oldham adds: "This power is still ascribed to the serpent-gods of the sun-worshipping countries
of China, Manchuria, and Korea, and was so, until the introduction of Christianity, in Mexico
and Peru". This is put forward in support of his argument that the Nâga kings' "supposed ability
to control the elements, and especially the waters," arose "from their connexion with the sun".
But this is not so.[451] The belief in the Egyptian king's power over water was certainly older
than sun-worship, which did not begin until Osirian beliefs and the personification of the
moon as the Great Mother brought the sky-deities and the control of water into correlation
the one with the other. The association of the sun and the serpent in the royal insignia was
a later development.

The early Egyptian goddess was identified with the uræus-serpent in that vitally important
nodal point of primitive civilization, Buto, in Lower Egypt. The earliest deity in Crete and
the Eastern Mediterranean seems to have been a goddess who was also closely associated with
the serpent. According to Langdon "the ophidian nature of the earliest Sumerian mother-goddess
Innini is unmistakable.... She carries the caduceus in her hand, two serpents twining about
a staff."[452]

The earliest Indian deities also were goddesses, and the first rulers of whom any record has
been preserved were regarded as divine cobras, to whom was attributed the power of controlling
water. These Nâgas, whether kings or queens, gods or goddesses, were the prototypes of the
Eastern Asiatic dragon, whose origin is discussed in Chapter II.

In Japan the earliest sun-deity was a goddess who was identified with a snake. Elsewhere in
this volume (Chapter II) I have referred to the completeness of the transference to America
of these Old World ideas of the serpent. Right on the route taken by the main stream of cultural
diffusion across the Pacific we still find in their fully-developed form the old beliefs concerning
the good Mother Serpent of the ancient civilizations (C. E. Fox and F. H. Drew, op. cit. supra,
p. 139). She could be re-incarnated as a coconut: she controlled crops; she was associated
with the coming of death into the world, with the introduction of agriculture and the discovery
of fire. Like her predecessors in the West she was also a Mother Pot or Basket that never emptied.

All the hiona or figona (i.e. spirits) of San Cristoval have a serpent incarnation from Agunua
the creator, worshipped by every one, to Oharimae and others, only known to particular persons.
Other spirits, called ataro, might be incarnate in almost any animal. Agunua, who took the
form of a serpent, was good, not evil (p. 134). Very many pools, rocks, water-falls, or large
trees were thought to be the abode of figona. These serpent spirits could take the form of
a stone, or retire within a stone, and sacred stones seem to be connected with figona rather
than with ataro (p. 135). Almost all the local figona are represented as female snakes, but
Agunua is a male snake (p. 137).

As the real significance of the snake's symbolism originated from its identification with the
Great Mother in her destructive aspect, it is not surprising that the snake is the most primitive
form of the evil dragon. The Babylonian Tiamat was originally represented as a huge serpent,[453]
and throughout the world the serpent is pre-eminently a symbol of the evil dragon and the powers
of evil.

