Fichte, in his Characteristics of the Present Age, pronounces the individual to be but "a single
ray of the one universal and necessary thought".  "There is but One Life, one animating power,
one Living Reason . . . of which all that seems to us to exist and live is but a modification,
definition, variety and form."  And, finally, he goes so far as to say that it is only by,
and to, mere earthly and finite perception, that this one and homogeneous life of reason is
broken up and divided into separate individual persons.  What a piercing thought! Surely it
is almost past believing that the eternal Life is itself in us, nay, that it is we; that in
very literal truth we may say, "I and the Infinite are One".  Only one who could speak in tongues
of men and angels is fit to hold discourse on thoughts so sublime, but it is difficult to discern
a flaw in the arguments of these prophetic souls who have dared to believe and to preach to
men, "Ye are gods, and sons of the Most High, every one".

It is a doctrine we learn only from the new masters.  Nothing half so fair, so radiant, did
we hear in days of old, so rich in promise, so full of inspiration and helpfulness.  "You are
an adopted son of God," it was said.  There is but one natural son, the Messiah and Logos,
Jesus Christ.  Through him alone we have access to the Divine, apart from him we are children
of wrath; only in him are we "light in the Lord". Nor is he alone words in the skill which enables
him to realize upon his own canvas the personalty which some master
has rendered.

It is in the absence of Animality itself the a power is demanded with
which mechanical superiority and mental eligibility have little Messiah
to do.  We are
greater than all that, for the eternal soul of man is within us, heir-at-law divine of the
promises, and in its own right a natural son of God.

But to continue.  The scattered rays of this wonderful gospel are focussed in the transcendental
teaching of the last of the ethical prophets, Waldo Emerson.  In him the truth shines forth
as the sun.  We have seen the germ of the doctrine in the fourteenth and fifteenth century
mystics, its resurrection in the noble school of German idealism which grew out of the teaching
of the great master himself, Immanuel Kant.  The man who introduced it to England, the link,
so to speak, between Fichte, Hegel, Schelling and Emerson, was Coleridge, for whom there is
but one reason, shared in by all intelligent beings, which is in itself the universal soul.
To this profoundly reverent thinker reason is not a faculty, much less a property of the human
mind.  Man cannot be said so much to possess reason as to partake of it.  He in whom reason
dwells can as little appropriate it as his own possession, as he can claim ownership in the
breathing air or take in the canopy of heaven.

Now, this is essentially what Emerson means by the Over-soul.  It is the universal mind, the
light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.  It is one and identical in all
men, even as the sun in the high heavens is one and the same for every dweller in the solar
system. Yea, more than this, we cannot shrink from the consequences of our affirmation, the
mind in man is not conceivably other than the Mind which is self-subsistent and infinite. 
After what manner shall we conceive of the intelligence which laid down the foundations of
the world, traced the pathway of the stars, fixed the laws which nature has immutably obeyed
from the eternal past even to this hour, if we conceive it not after the manner of the mind
in us which has at length discovered these laws?  How can we hold one intelligence to know
and another to originate them?  As truth is one and identical for all minds, so must be the
intelligences which know and originate that truth.