The word "duty" is often employed to translate the Greek term which we are rendering by "propriety."
Any translation is no more than a choice of evils, since we have no real equivalent for the
term. It was applicable not merely to human conduct, but also to the acting of the lower animals,
and even to the growth of plants. Now, apart from a craze of generalization we should hardly
think of the "stern daughter of the voice of God" in connection with an amoeba corresponding
successfully to stimulus, yet the creature in its inchoate way is exhibiting a dim analogy
to duty. The term in question was first used by Zeno, and was explained by him, in accordance
with its etymology, to mean what it came to one to do, so that as far as this goes, 'becomingness'
would be the most appropriate translation.

The sphere of propriety was confined to things indifferent, so that there were proprieties
which were common to the sage and the fool. It had to do with taking the things which were
in accordance with nature and rejecting those that were not. Even the propriety of living or
dying was determined, not by reference to virtue or vice, but to the preponderance or deficiency
of things in accordance with nature. It might thus be a propriety for the sage in spite of
his happiness, to depart from life of his own accord, and for the fool notwithstanding his
misery, to remain in it. Life, being in itself indifferent, the whole question was one of opportunism.
Wisdom might prompt the leaving herself should occasion seem to call for it.

We pass on now another instance of accommodation. According to the high Stoic doctrine, there
was no mean between virtue and vice. All men indeed received from nature the starting-points
for virtue, but until perfection had been attained they rested under the condemnation of vice.
It was, to employ an illustration of the poet-philosopher Cleanthes, as though Nature had begun
an iambic line and left men to finish it. Until that was done they were to wear the fool's
cap. The Peripatetics, on the other hand, recognized an intermediate state between virtue and
vice, to which they gave the name of progress and proficience. Yet so entirely had the Stoics,
for practical purposes, to accept this lower level, that the word "proficience" has come to
be spoken of as though it were of Stoic origin.

Seneca is fond of contrasting the sage with the proficient. The sage is like a man in the enjoyment
of perfect health. But the proficient is like a man recovering from a severe illness, with
whom an abatement of the paroxysm is equivalent to health, and who is always in danger of a
relapse. It is the business of philosophy to provide for the needs of these weaker brethren.
The proficient is still called a fool, but it is pointed out that he is a very different kind
of fool from the rest. Further, proficients are arranged into three classes, in a way that
reminds one of the technicalities of Calvinistic theology. First of all, there are those who
are near wisdom, but, however near they may be to the door of Heaven, they are still on the
wrong side of it. According to some doctors, these were already safe from backsliding, differing
from the sage only in not having yet realized that they had attained to knowledge; other authorities,
however, refused to admit this, and regarded the first class as being exempt only from settled
diseases of the soul, but not from passing attacks of passion. Thus did the Stoics differ among
themselves as to the doctrine of "final assurance". The second class consisted of those who
had laid aside the worst diseases and passions of the soul, but might at any moment relapse
into them.