Sometimes, and this was when they were with Madeline again, Ellery would have his experience
to tell, redolent of printer's ink, and full of the interest of that profession which is never
two days the same--stories of how business toils and spins and is not arrayed like Solomon.
Norris, too, was beginning to run up against human nature both in gross and in detail, and
to know the world, from the fight last night in Fish Alley up to the doings of statesmen and
kings. Madeline had little to tell, for she was living quietly at home, taking the housekeeping
off her mother's hands and driving her father to the morning train. She had few episodes more
exciting than an afternoon call or a moonlight sail. But the young men brought her their lives,
and when she had made her gay little bombardment of comment, they felt as though some new light
had fallen upon familiar facts. The very simplicity of her thought put things in the right
relation and gave the effect of a view from a higher plane.

There were many times when they did not discuss, but gave themselves to the joy of young things.
They sailed, and Madeline held the tiller; and, when evening came on, they curled down with
cushions in the bottom of the boat and sang and chattered the twilight out. They played golf
and tennis, and the blood leaped in their veins, for whatever they did, they did it with heart
and soul. As for their relations with one another, these were taken for granted, and what they
meant, not one of the three stopped to question. It was enough that they were sweet and satisfying
in silence.

Late in the season there came a Sunday, memorable to Ellery, when Dick had gone away for some
purpose, and, after a little self-questioning, Norris ventured alone for his afternoon with
Madeline. She welcomed him with such serene unconsciousness that he wondered why he had hesitated.

"I'm not so good a sailor as Dick, Miss Elton," he said. "Will you trust yourself with me?"

"Being an independent young woman, I'm willing to depend on you."

"A truly feminine position."

"It means that I am quite capable of seizing the helm myself if you should fail me," she laughed.

"And I am masculine enough to determine that you shall get it only by favor, not by necessity,"
he retorted.

"That suits me quite well," Madeline answered gravely.

"And you are not apprehensive of storms in the vague far-away?"

"Don't. I'm so contented with things as they are that I do not want to think of far-aways or
of anything that means change."

"You are satisfied with to-day?" he persisted.

"Perfectly."

Ellery flushed with traitorous rejoicing that Dick was absent. It was a day of sunshine--not
the ardent blaze of summer, but the crisp glow of October that seems all light with little
heat. The lake was so pale as to be hardly blue, and girdled with soft yellow, touched only
here and there with the intenser red of the rock maples. Back farther from shore rose the tawny
bronze of oaks. The light breeze flung the Swallow along with those caressing wave-slaps that
are the sleepiest of sounds.

To sail under that sky, with Madeline leaning on her elbow near at hand, they two separated
from the rest of the world by wide waters, was like a brief experience of Paradise. Ellery
watched the light tendril of hair that touched her cheek, lifted itself and touched again,
near that lovely curve above her ear. The cheek was warm and creamy but untouched by deeper
color. He fell into that mood of blessed silence that, as a rule, comes only when one is solitary.

As they rounded at the dock he came back to himself with a sudden wonder if she had missed
the titillation of Dick's chatter, for she had been as silent as he.

"I'm afraid I have been very dull. I enjoyed myself so much that I forgot to try to amuse you."

"It's been a heavenly sail, exactly to match the day," Madeline answered with a deep contented
sigh that filled him with delight. "I was this moment thinking what a comfort it was to know
you well enough so that I didn't have to talk. It's a test of comradeship, isn't it?"

As they smiled at each other, his heart leaped with the consciousness of a bond below the surface.

He treasured this crumb of her kindness, not because she was niggardly, but because there was
little that belonged to him and to him alone. Sometimes, in the rush and roar of the office,
came the memory of her eyes and her voice of assurance.

"What will our comradeship be like, when--when she is Dick's wife?" he questioned himself,
and then fell to work with fury.

Thus the delightful summer died into the past; there came a winter only less good, with its
dinners and dances, with quiet fireside evenings, and yet another summer of the same close
friendship that began to take on the semblance of a permanent thing in life, all the richer
as experience grew deeper and knowledge wider and the best things dearer.

Whether they read or sang or discussed, though the world saw little done, these three young
people had the inestimable happiness of knowing one another.

CHAPTER VI

JEWEL WEED

Along the wide straight street of the city surged the usual shopping crowd. Largely petticoated
was it, for o'daytimes man must be busy at his office that woman may have this privilege of
going shopping. Surely there is no other stream in the wide world that is so monotonous as
this human never-ending current. The same types, the same clothes, the same subjects of conversation
in the fragments that catch the ear. And seldom does one see a face that looks even cheerful,
much less happy,--all intent on matching ribbons.

    "The world is too much with us; late and soon;
    Getting and spending we lay waste our powers."

Thus might they cry aloud, if they were condemned to proclaim their sins, like the long banner
of bat-like souls that Dante saw passing in similar fashion beneath his eye.

And yet, in spite of its monotony, humanity is perennially interesting to itself. Therefore
among the strenuous, the hurrying, and the anxious-eyed, one girl loitered on dilatory foot
from wide window to wide window.

"Girl" seems an inadequate word to describe Lena Quincy. It may be applied to any youthful
feminine person, and Lena, in spite of her carefully-groomed shabbiness, was by no means one
of the herd. She affected one like a bit of Tiffany glass, shimmering, iridescent, ethereal;
and no ugliness in her surroundings could take away that impression.

Every one who looked at her at all looked twice. She had grown so used to this tribute that
it hardly affected her unless it came from one who merited her interest in return.

Now she was wandering from one to another of the ladies with the waxen faces, the waxen hands
and the wooden hearts, who gazed back unmoved from behind their plate-glass; though it was
not the fixed and amiable smiles of the lay-figures that caught her attention, but rather the
curious way in which this one's braid was laid on the gown, or the new device in buttons, there
beyond.

Now she turned and studied the human flux in front. She was not shopping, save in sweet imagination.
This was her theater, and she was fain to make the show last as long as possible. Her absorbent
gaze saw everything. Yet it was selective too, for it passed swiftly over the chaff of the
shabby and fixed itself on the wheat of the properly gowned. Sometimes she wove romances about
her swiftly-disappearing actors, romances not of heart and soul but of garments, of splendors
and of money; but even such entrancing tissues of her brain vanished like pricked soap-bubbles
when there passed in the body one of those select few whose skirts proclaimed perfection. Could
dreams stand against reality? Yet the dreams were blissful, though, when they were gone, the
girl was left steeped in the bitterness of envy.

It is said that there is a consolation in being well-dressed that religion itself can not afford.
It is to be remembered that there is also the pharisaism which always forms a hard shell about
every kernel of religion; and the pharisaism of the correct costume is the most complacent
of all forms of self-righteousness. Lena's lips grew positively pale as she saw it pass, drawing
its rustling petticoats close to its side. She hungered and thirsted for this form of righteousness.

It was early April, and there was a savage nip in the air, for Winter shook his fist at the
world long after he dared to come out of his lair. Spring refused to sit in his lap for more
than an instant, but leaped from that affectionate position, ashamed of her intimacy with the
hoary sinner, and the buds swelled slowly and swelled exceeding small.

Other women hurried, but Lena did not feel the cold except when she saw a set of magnificent
Russian sables with a cordial invitation to "Buy now". Her eyes suddenly filled with tears
at her own impotence. Why had God created her such as she was and then denied her the perquisites
of her desires? It was as though nature should make the heart of a rose and should leave off
all the out-shaken wealth of petals, whose reflected lights and shadows make the flower's heart
lovely.

With the mist clearing from her eyes Lena walked onward to the next big sheet of glass, and
looked through a wealth of Easter hats and bonnets at the mirror that was meant to manifold
their charms. She did not see the millinery, but there was comfort in the really good glass,
not like her parody at home which cast a pale green tinge over a distorted image.

On Lena nature had really spent herself. The very texture of her skin made the fingers itch
to caress its transparent delicacy that let through a tender flush. Every curve of her body
suggested hidden beauty, and the way she turned her head on her shoulders left one feeling
how music and painting fall short of expressing the loveliest loveliness. But, having accomplished
a miracle, fate had left it without a meaning and thrown it on an ash heap. No wonder that
it resented its position.

Every man who passed Lena on the street looked at her; some of them spoke to her; but she was
possessed of a self-respect that kept her from responding to such overtures. She prided herself
on her virtue. Certain it was that the admiration of the other sex never set her vibrating
with delicate emotions, never increased by a single beat the pulses of her heart, except when
it suggested some definite benefit to herself. With reason, Lena congratulated herself on her
firm resistence to the many-formed temptations that come to beauty housed with poverty.

Now, as she looked in the milliner's glass, she saw her own face, rose-like and delicate. She
saw the great violet eyes, so innocent that they almost persuaded herself, as they did others,
that some creature more celestial than ordinary humanity wondered from behind them at the world.
She saw the fair soft curls that clung about her forehead, and the sight of these things gave
a momentary peace to her soul. Then she surveyed the dingy felt hat that rested brutally on
the silken wonder of her hair, and rebellion rose again.

"It's a comfort that my collar fits so well," she reassured herself. "After all, there is nothing
more important than a collar. I don't look in the least 'common'."

Among the hats stood a photograph of a popular actress, pert and pretty. The sight of it sent
Lena's thoughts afield into new wastes of bitterness.

The idea of the stage had once come to her like an inspiration. Nothing could be more easy
and natural to her than to act; nothing more delectable than the tribute paid to the star.
Money, flowing gowns, footlights, tumults of applause had seemed inevitable. Lena shivered
now, with something else than cold inside her flimsy jacket, as she remembered the crumbling
of her dream. She saw again the fat man with the sensual mouth who had given her a job; and
felt again her tingling resentment when she found how small the part was, and how poorly paid.
She remembered how she had held herself aloof from the other girls, who, like herself, had
trivial parts, and how they had snubbed her in return; how even the little that she did was
made ridiculous through the trick of a hook-nosed, gum-chewing rival, and how the first audience
that she faced had tittered at her stumble. A wave of heat succeeded the shiver at this point
in her remembrance. Then she recalled her impertinent answer to the vituperation of the manager,
and how he had sworn at her for a damned minx, who thought herself a professional beauty.

"Vulgar! Vulgar! Vulgar!" she said to herself in impotent anger. She wished they could all
know how she despised them. For she could act! She was still sure that she could play any part--except
that of patient endurance. Yet, so far, hardship was all that life had offered her. A chance!
That was it. So far, she had never had a ghost of a chance. Would fate--or luck--or Providence--or
whatever it is that rules, never give her a turn of the wheel?

Next to the art of the milliner was displayed the art, less interesting to Lena, of the brush.
Before the picture store a span of horses shook their jingling harness, and a brightly-buttoned
coachman waited, with impassive face turned steadily to the front. There came from the doorway
a girl who was lifted above the pharisaism of clothes into the purer ether. She was calm-eyed
and well-poised, and Lena hated her for the rest of her life for her obliviousness of the sordid.
Behind her walked a young man who now opened the carriage door and lingered a moment and laughed
as he talked with the girl who had taken her seat. Lena involuntarily drew her feet closer
beneath her skirts that no careless glance of that girl should fall upon their shabbiness.
She looked at the man as she looked at the Russian sables. He was a type of that delectable
world from which she was shut out.

"I should be ashamed to be silly about fellows, the way some girls are," was her inward comment.
"But I'd just like to have people see me with a thing like that dangling around me. And I shall,
some time. I'm a whole heap prettier than she is."

The carriage door shut abruptly. Lena's too thin boots, out of plumb, suddenly slipped on a
half-formed piece of ice. She made a desperate grab at the smooth surface of the window and
then came ignominiously down--not wholly ignominiously, however, since her accident brought
to her aid the man who was a type.

She didn't have to stop to consider that the man would notice neither her hat nor her boots.
She knew it instinctively and instantly. But the rose-petal face and the big eyes were overwhelmingly
present to her consciousness. She saw them reflected in the look on his face as he bent over her.

"I hope you're not hurt."

"Not in the least. Only humiliated." Lena smiled, because people are always attracted by cheerfulness.

"You are sure you have not twisted your ankle?" he insisted.

"Nothing but my hat and my hair," she pouted. "Thank you for coming to my rescue."

"It wasn't much of a rescue," he said.

"Are you sorry I didn't have a tragedy and give you a chance to play hero?" she inquired naïvely.

"When you are in need, may I be the one to help?" he said with growing boldness.

Lena flushed and nodded as he lifted his hat and was gone. She walked slowly homeward, actually
forgetting to stop at her favorite window in the lace store, so occupied was she with the latest
story she was telling herself. It was a story in which a large house with soft rugs and becoming
pink lights occupied the foreground, and somewhere in the background hovered a man who was
a type and who loved to spend money on diamonds. The vision was so lovable that she lived with
it all the way, even through the narrow entrance of the lodging-house and up the narrow stairs,
saturated with obsolete smells--smells of dead dinners--to the very instant when she opened
the upper door and faced bald reality and her mother. Mrs. Quincy sat by the window in a room
on the walls of which the word "shabby" was written in a handwriting as plain, and in language
far simpler than ever Belshazzar saw on the walls of Babylon. It fairly cried itself from the
big-figured paper, peeling along its edges; from the worn painted floor; from the frayed rug
of now patternless carpet; from the sideboard that looked like a parlor organ. Even from the
closet door it whispered that there was more shabbiness hidden in the depths.

Mrs. Quincy herself was a part of it, for she was to Lena what the faded rose is to the opening
one, a once beautiful woman, whose skin now looked like wrinkled cream.

Lena shut the door and came in without speaking. She flung her hat and coat on the bed in the
corner, where a forlorn counterpane showed by the hollows and hills beneath that it had given
up all attempt to play even. The girl sat down listlessly with her hands in her lap.

"You've been gone a long time, Lena," said the mother in a delicately querulous voice. "You're
fortunate to be able to get out instead of being cooped up in this little room the way I am."
Mrs. Quincy coughed with conscious pathos. "I sometimes wonder if you ever think of your poor
mother and how lonely she is most of the time. But I'd ought to be used to people's always
forgetting me."

"Much I have to come home to!" Lena answered. "You're about as cheerful as barbed wire. But
you can comfort yourself! I shan't be able to go out at all much longer, any way."

"Why, what's the matter now?"

"Do you expect me to wear a felt hat all summer?" Lena asked sharply. "I'm ashamed to be seen
in that old thing and I should think you'd be ashamed to be so stingy with me."

Her mother sighed and lapsed into the creaking comfort of her rocking-chair.

"I ain't stingy," she said at last. "But if you had your way you'd spend every last cent of
the pension the very day it comes. I've got to look out we don't starve. If you'd only make
up your mind to work and earn a little instead of livin' so pinched! I'm sure I'd work if I
could. But there! there ain't nothing for me to do but to set and suffer, and nobody knows
what I endure."

"I wasn't born to be a working girl," said Lena sullenly. "I've got the blood of a lady if
I haven't got the clothes of one."

"Well, when it comes to eating and drinking, blood don't count much. Everybody's got the same
appetite."

"No, everybody hasn't," retorted the girl. "I haven't any appetite for canned baked-beans and
liver."

"You eat them, anyway."

"I know it, worse luck!"

There was a tingling silence for a moment and then Lena spoke with sudden energy.

"Mother, what can I do? I'm not one of those girls who can go ahead and don't care. I haven't
been brought up as they have. The only thing you've taught me is that my father was a gentleman
and that I am a beauty. And what good does that do me?"

"Teachin' is respectable."

"I can't teach. I couldn't pass a teacher's examination to save my life. I don't know how to
do anything. And I won't sink below the level of decent society. I'd starve first. Do you suppose
I haven't thought it all over a hundred times?"

"You can sew very nicely. I'm sure everything you make has real style."

"Go into a shop at starvation wages to make pretty things for other girls to wear? I stopped
along near Madame Cerise's to-day and looked at some of the girls near the window, with their
hair all lanky and their faces sunk in, working for dear life on finery. Mother, is that what
you want for me?"

There was hungry appeal in Lena's voice, that some mothers would have felt; but Mrs. Quincy
was not on the lookout for other people's shades of emotion.

"Well, if you'd any sense you'd take Joe Nolan, as I've told you fifty times if I've told you
once. He's got real good wages, and you could twist him around your little finger."

Lena's teeth came together with a click.

"Joe! Well, perhaps, when there's nothing else left but the poorhouse. It's pretty tough if
I have to marry a mechanic."

"Joe's a good deal of a man. He won't always be a mechanic, Lena. He's got too much ambition."

"He may, or he may not. Anyway, he'll bear the marks of a mechanic all his days. I'm not his kind."

Lena rose and went across the room to lean on the little dressing-table and survey herself
in the old green glass. This was her panacea for every woe. The little pucker in her forehead
straightened itself out.

"Look at me, mother," she demanded, turning around. "Do you think all this is meant to scrub
and sew and cook for the foreman in locomotive works? Because I don't."

She was smiling, but her mother did not smile in return.

"I believe I was most as pretty as you are when I was a girl," Mrs. Quincy said. "And that
was all the good it did. I thought I was making a grand marriage when I got your father; but
he seemed to sort of flatten out and lose all his ambition after we was married. He didn't
seem to care about anything, though I used to give him my opinion pretty plain. And it's mighty
little he left me when he was took," she added vindictively.

Her daughter eyed her speculatively.

"Well, I'm not going to be taken in the way you were," she said sharply. "You thought a good
old name and a promising career were enough; and father didn't keep his promises. I want money
and not the promise of money."

"And where will you find him?" sniffed Mrs. Quincy, to whom "it" and "he" were synonymous.
"I don't notice any millionaires crowding up to you, for all your big eyes and your great opinion
of yourself."

"That's just it. If I could only meet them!" Lena got up and walked restlessly about the room.
Her eyes fell on the last night's copy of the Star, opened to that chatty column headed "Woman's
Fancies". She had read it with absorbed interest. Her body halted now, for the muscles often
stop work when the mind becomes possessed of a great idea. She stood for a long time and looked
from the unwashed window-pane while a new resolve slowly hardened itself within.

"I'll try, I'll try, I'll try," she said to herself, and her heart thumped uncomfortably. "And
if I take it to the office myself, when they see me perhaps they--"

Aloud she said nothing, for she had early learned the great lesson that the best way of getting
her own will with her mother was to do what she wished first and argue about it afterward.

"What have we got for supper, mother?" she asked.

"Nothing," said Mrs. Quincy sharply.

"Nothing? Well, give me some money and let me go and get something."

Mrs. Quincy reluctantly lifted her skirt and began to explore her petticoat below. She shook
open the mouth of a pocket into which she dived to return with a knotted handkerchief. Lena
looked on impatiently as the knot was slowly untied and a small hoard of silver disclosed.

"There," said Mrs. Quincy. "You can take this quarter, Lena, and do get something nourishing.
Don't buy cream-cakes. I feel the need of what will stay my stomach."

"I'll get baked-beans," answered the girl with a short laugh.

"Yes, do. I shan't have another cent till next pay-day comes. We've got to make this last.
Get some tea, Lena--green, remember. The beans won't cost more than twelve cents. I don't see
how you can have a new hat."

"Well, give me ten cents, anyway," Lena answered with unexpected submission.

"What do you want it for?"

"Please, mammy," Lena said coaxingly. "I won't buy cream-cakes or anything to eat. I want to
invest in a gold mine."

Mrs. Quincy gave her a sharp look and grudgingly handed out a dime; for Lena's voice was instinct
with hope, and hope was such a rare visitor in the dingy little lodgings that Mrs. Quincy grew
generous under its magnetic warmth.

"Now what'd you want that ten cents for?" she asked curiously when the girl came back. "My
land! Only paper and pencil? I thought you was going to do something grand."

CHAPTER VII

LENA'S PROGRESS

About a month after Lena had made her investment in the raw materials of the writer's art,
Dick Percival happened to drop into the sooty and untidy office where for more than a year
Norris had been engaged in manufacturing public opinion.

"Hello!" he cried as he opened the door. Then he stood transfixed at the vision that met his
sight, for a very blond and fuzzy head was bent over Ellery's desk and a very startled pair
of blue eyes was raised to meet his own. There stood a rosebud dressed in gray. Is there anything
more demure and innocent than a pinky girl in a mousy gown? Dick's hat came off and a deferential
look replaced the careless one.

"Hello, yourself!" said Norris. "You announce yourself like a telephone girl. Come in. What
do you mean by troubling the quiet waters of my daily toil?"

"I beg your pardon," said Dick politely. "If you are busy I--"

"That's all right. Miss Quincy and I can postpone our confab without inconveniencing the order
of the universe." Miss Quincy was already gathering her notes, and she smiled at Dick in a
half-shy way that said, "I remember you very plainly." As she disappeared slowly down the hall,
Dick started after her.

"Great Scott, Ellery!" he ejaculated. "How you have lied to me about the grubbiness of your
work! If this is your daily grind, I don't mind having a whirl at the editorial profession myself."

Norris laughed.

"It isn't the sum total of my duties," he said.

"Who is Hebe?" asked Dick.

"Well, she's rather a problem," Ellery replied. "I believe she appeared a few weeks ago at
Miss Huntress' office--the woman editor, you know--with a catchy little article on fashions.
It happened that the boss was in the office, and we consider it rather a grind on him, for
he was much taken by either the article or the eyes, and she got a little job as a sort of
reportorial maid-of-all-work. Funny, isn't it? If a man is buying a rug, he wouldn't think
of deciding on it because it was green, without testing its wearing qualities; but in nine
cases out of ten a girl gets chosen because of her eyes. That's all I know about her. Pretty,
isn't she?"

"Pretty! Is that all the command you have of your native language? You ought to lose your job
for that. Why she's--never mind--I haven't time now."

"Neither have I," answered Norris sharply. He remembered that long ago Dick had called Madeline
pretty. It is a cheap and easy word. "I haven't time for you, either. Will you go away; or
will you keep still while I finish this work?"

"Waltz away." Dick sat down on the window-sill and fell into a meditative state of mind. Once
or twice he walked to the door and looked down the hall, while Norris plugged steadily away
and ignored the presence of his friend.

After a prolonged silence, Dick spoke again, solemnly:

"I should like to meet her."

"Whom?"

"Miss--Quincy, did you call her?"

"Oh! Isn't she rather out of your class?"

"Pshaw! Don't talk of classes, now that you're out of college. Do you know anything about her?"

"Nothing," said Ellery shortly. "I don't consider it my business to go beyond my official relations."

"Well, I haven't any business relations not to go beyond," said Dick. "So I mean to pursue
the inquiry."

"Do as you like," Ellery answered. "Is that what you came down here to talk about?"

"No," said Dick, changing his manner. "I came to talk up an editorial campaign. You don't know
my chum, Olaf Ericson, do you? He's the biggest man on the force, and he's a corker. I've learned
more from him about bad smells than I did in two years of chemistry at New Haven. He knows
this town from the seventh sub-cellar up, and 'him and me is great friends'. Seriously, Norris,
I've begun to get hold of just the facts I wanted about 'the combine', and it's information
that is so very definite and to the point that I believe I can make it hot for them. I want
the public to be kept informed on everything that is to their discredit. Now the Star is a
fairly clean paper, as papers go. I want help."

"You'll have to go up higher for that, my boy. It's not for a freshman like myself to direct
the policy of the paper. It would be a pretty serious matter to run up against those fellows.
Mr. Lewis, the old man, is out, but when he comes back we'll go and have a talk with him."

"Talk to him! I should think so!" Dick exclaimed, and he began to pace the room and pour out
the floods of his information, in wrath of soul and glow of spirits at his resolve to clean
things up.

Meanwhile in Miss Huntress' office, farther down the hall, Lena was discussing with that determined
person the possibility of supplying the public with more of the kind of literature for which
women, in particular, are supposed to have a mad desire. Miss Huntress was an adept at filling
her page with personalities by which those who know nobody may have almost as great a knowledge
of the great as those who have achieved the proud distinction of being "in it". Lena had written
a highly successful series of articles on "St. Etienne as seen from the shop windows," and
she longed for new and similar fields to conquer.

"I've been wondering," said Miss Huntress, "if you couldn't get up some catchy little things
on private libraries and picture galleries. If you can raise some photographs to go with them,
you might make quite a hit. That's the kind of thing that takes. You see it makes people able
to talk about the inside of rich folk's houses."

"I suppose you would want me to begin with Mr. Early," said Lena, hardly knowing what reply
to make.

"Never mind Mr. Early. Everybody knows just what he's got and how his place looks. You might
include him later, but I should start with people who are more exclusive and yet whose names
everybody knows. Now there's Mr. Windsor and Mrs. Percival. By the way, Mr. Norris is awfully
intimate at the Percivals'. Perhaps he'd help you to an introduction. If Mrs. Percival would
let you write up her library, you may be sure there'd be a lot of others who would follow her
example. You might try it, anyway. Go and see her. Tell her what a hard time you are having
to earn your own living. Your looks will carry you a long way."

"I think young Mr. Percival is in Mr. Norris' office now. Some one came in while I was there
and I think he called him Percival," said Lena faintly.

"Say! is that so?" exclaimed Miss Huntress. "Now's your chance! Go in and ask while he's there.
He'll find it hard to refuse to your face."

"You go," interposed Lena. "If I go, it will look as though I knew. But you can walk in all
innocent."

Therefore the conversation on matters which were to change the destiny of a city was interrupted
by a smart knock on the assistant editor's door, and Miss Huntress, eminently self-possessed,
walked in on the two young men.

"Beg pardon, Mr. Norris, I didn't know you had any one here," she began. "But I won't keep
you a moment. The truth is, I want a series of articles on the private libraries of the city,
and, knowing that you are acquainted with Mrs. Percival, I thought you'd help the paper to
an opening there."

"Let me introduce Mr. Percival," said Norris. "He can give you more information than I can."

"Well, this is lucky!" ejaculated Miss Huntress.

"Our library isn't a show affair," Dick said stiffly. "My mother, I am sure, would be very
unwilling to submit to that kind of a write-up. My father was a book-lover, not a book-fancier.
It's essentially a private collection."

"I'm sorry you feel that way about it," Miss Huntress rejoined equably. "Of course, nowadays,
I can't admit that there's any such thing as privacy. And it isn't only that I want the articles,
Mr. Percival. I want to help along a girl that needs the work, and an awfully nice girl she
is. We haven't any regular job for her, and all I can do is to throw odd bits of work in her
way. She has an old mother to support, and it would be a real charity to her if you'd look
at it in that light. Miss Quincy is a perfect lady, and you may be sure she'd take no advantage
of you to write up anything sensational or impertinent."

Dick started and glanced consciously at Norris, who grinned back.

"Of course that puts another light on it," Mr. Percival said after a decent pause, and trying
to compose his face to a judicial expression. "I'd hate to put a stumbling-block in the way
of a girl like that. Ah-um--I'll speak to my mother about it, Miss Huntress, and I dare say
I can persuade her to allow it."

"That's very good of you," Miss Huntress answered,--with sad comprehension that a complexion
like Lena's was a great aid to a literary career. "You couldn't manage to let Miss Quincy go
up this afternoon, could you?" she went on with characteristic energy in pushing an advantage.
"It would be a good thing if she could get her first stuff ready for the Saturday-night issue."

"My mother, I suppose, is driving this afternoon," Dick said hesitatingly. He went through
a hasty calculation and saw reasons for cutting out certain of his own engagements. "See here,
Miss Huntress, if you're in such a hurry, I don't mind taking Miss Quincy up and telling her
what I know about old editions and rare folios. I'll make it right with mother afterward."

Miss Huntress' face cleared perceptibly.

"You're awfully good, Mr. Percival. Won't you come down to my office now, and I'll introduce
you to Miss Quincy? This is a real favor." Dick shot a glance of triumph at Ellery, believing
himself a skilled sly dog of a manipulator, and not knowing that he was the manipulated. Norris
spoke in scorn.

"I suppose righteousness and reform can wait now."

"You can bet they will. I'll call on you to-morrow afternoon, Norris."

"That's the usual fate of reform. Don't be a fool, Dick." But Dick was already disappearing
down the corridor in pursuit of the able woman editor.

The girl waiting in the disordered office looked more than ever like a bridesmaid rose, pink
and ruffled and out of its proper setting, as she saw Mr. Percival coming.

"Miss Quincy," said Dick, "I have a motor down stairs, and I'll take you up to the house right
away, if you don't mind."

If she didn't mind!

When youth starts out to revolutionize the world, it meets with many distractions. Even in
the hour that Dick spent in the quiet old library with Miss Quincy, he met with distractions.
He tried to keep her mind on missals and Aldine editions, but she persisted in poring over
old copies of Godey's Lady's Book, which she found tucked away in a forgotten corner. Nobody
but Lena could have scented them out.

"The fashions are so funny, Mr. Percival!" she insisted. "Do look at these preposterous hoop-skirts
and the little short waists. Did you say that no one knows how that gold leaf was put on that
ugly old book? How absurd! I must put that down. I suppose that is the kind of thing I have
to write up."

"Be sure you don't get mixed up and describe monkish fichus and gold leaf on the bias, or you'll
be everlastingly disgraced in the office."

"Never mind. I'll learn your horrid old pieces of information in a few minutes. Do let me look
at this a little longer," Lena answered so prettily, and pointed with so dainty a finger, and
glanced up so pathetically, that Dick too became absorbed in Godey's Lady's Book.

"Weren't they frightful guys?" Lena went on. "But I dare say the men of that time--what is
the date?--1862--thought they were lovely."

"Very likely, poor men! You see they hadn't the privilege of knowing the girls of to-day and
they thought their own women were the top-notch."

"Now you are horrid and sarcastic," said Lena.

"Never a bit. I find it impossible to believe that there was ever before so much beauty in
the world. There was here and there a pretty girl, like Helen of Troy, and they made an awful
fuss over her."

"But she must have been really wonderful."

"Yes, if a girl is as much run after as that, she must either be a raving beauty or else she
lives in the far West."

"But, you know, there aren't so very many real beauties nowadays, are there?" She glanced sidewise
at him in an adorable manner.

"I can't remember more than one--or two," said Dick judicially.

Lena laughed softly.

"I think it must have been very nice to be one of the few and be made a fuss over, instead of--"

"Instead of what?"

"Instead of having to grub and struggle for your bread," Lena answered,--and there was a misty
look in the big eyes she turned up to him.

"Poor little girl!" said Dick. "You certainly are not of the kind who ought to battle with
the world. Haven't you any man who could shelter you a little?"

Lena shook her head, with an air of patient suffering.

"My father is dead," she said. "He was of a good family, as you might know by my name, but
he was wounded in the war, and he never got over it. Of course he was very young then. He wasn't
married till long afterward. He died when I was a little thing."

"That was the history of my father, too!" Dick felt a glow of kindred experience. "See, that
is his portrait over the mantel."

Lena looked very lovely and spiritual as she gazed up at the quiet face that looked back at
her, and Dick watched her. Then she drew a full breath and turned her eyes on him.

"You are like him," she said softly, and something in her voice made the words a thrilling tribute.

Then she added: "Yes, but he left you in comfort, and we--my mother and I--"

"Will you let me come to see your mother some time?"

Lena's heart beat fast with mingled fear and hope, but all Dick saw was a startled and sweet
surprise.

"I should be almost ashamed to have you come," she said with a soft blush and a look of shy
invitation. "We are so poor and we live in such a shabby place."

"If your shabbiness comes because of your father's sacrifice for his country it is something
to be proud of," Dick answered.

Through Lena's mind there passed a swift memory of quarrels and bickerings, of daily smallnesses,
which were her chief recollection of her father. She looked frankly up into Dick's face.

"Yes," she said. "That ought to make it easy to bear. Now I must not talk about myself any
more. What did you tell me about that funny old book?"

"And I may come to see you and your mother?" Dick persisted.

"If you do not forget us to-morrow,"--Lena glanced at him out of the corner of her eyes in
a way calculated to make him remember.

"I shan't forget," said Dick.

He took out a small note-book and wrote down the address she gave him. And she gave herself
a little shake and pulled out a much larger note-book. "I ought not to waste my time and yours
this way, but, you see, I'm not much of a business woman. I sometimes forget altogether."

Dick thought her very preposterous and charming as she set to work with an air of severity;
and so she was--the last thing on earth made to do serious work. They leaned together over
one treasure after another, in that electric nearness that moves youth so easily, and sends
a tingling sensation up the backbone.

When she suddenly rose, her cheeks were pinker and more transparent than ever, and her eyes
softer and dreamier.

"Let me take you home in the motor," said Dick.

"Dear me, no," Lena exclaimed. "I'm afraid you think me entirely too informal already. I--I'm
so stupid and impulsive. I'm always doing wrong things and not thinking till afterward. Good-by,
and thank you, Mr. Percival."

After he had bowed her out, Dick plunged into a big chair and spent a few moments in analyzing
his own character. He perceived that in some ways he differed from most of his friends. Now
Ellery and Madeline and most of the others lived along certain conventional lines, with certain
fixed interests and habits. That kind of existence would be intolerable to him. He liked to
star his days with all kinds of colored incidents that had no particular relation to his main
work. He liked to run down every by-path, explore it a bit, and then come back to the highway.
Those small excursions were apt to take a man into leafy dells where there were ferns and flowers
too shy to fringe the dusty plodding thoroughfare. Dick liked that figure. It revealed to him
a certain lightness of heart and poetry in himself that distinguished him from the prosy grubbers.
This sprinkling of life with episodes was like a little tonic. It kept him vivid and alive.

Take this very afternoon just passed. It meant little, of course, either to him or to the pretty
little pathetic reporter girl, but it had injected a bit of pleasure into her routine, and
given him an insight into another kind of maiden from the well-kept, sheltered women he knew
best. Such things help a man's larger sympathies. He was glad that he could enjoy many types
of men and women.

A rumble of wheels outside brought him out of this particular by-path into the highway.

"What a dispensation that the mater didn't come home in the middle of it!" he said with a sigh
of satisfaction.

CHAPTER VIII

THE FALLS

According to his promise, Dick presented himself at Ellery's office on the next afternoon.
He wore a brisk and moving air.

"Miss Quincy is not here to-day," Norris said without looking up.

"I know it," Dick answered promptly. "Are you through yet?"

"I've finished with the ephemeræ of this particular Tuesday, and before I begin on those of
Wednesday, I have a few precious moments to waste on you." Ellery wheeled his chair around.

"Do you know that this is Decoration Day and a holiday?"

"Is there anything a sub-editor does not know?"

"Have you ever been to the Falls of Wabeno?"

"No."

"And you call yourself a true citizen of St. Etienne? Come with me and see the populace chew
gum amid scenes of natural beauty."

"I thought we were going to agitate civic reform."

"We'll agitate as we go along. Come, Ellery, it's a superb day. I feel like the bursting buds.
Let's get out."

"My dear Dick," said Norris, "the trouble with you is that you never want to do anything; you
always want to do something else. I begin to think that there are compensations to a man in
having fate hold his nose to the grindstone. He learns persistence, willy-nilly."

"Stop your growling. Up, William, up, and quit your galley-proof. I am willing to bet that
my flashes in the pan will do things before I am through."

"I dare swear they will get way ahead of my grubbing," Ellery rejoined, slamming his desk.
"Come, I'll go with you."

On the southern outskirts of the city lay a park where art had done no more than retouch nature.
Here a placid stream suddenly transformed itself into an imposing waterfall, plunging with
roars over a rocky cliff, and sending its spray whirling high in air to paint a hundred illusive
rainbows amid outstretching tree-branches or against a somber background of stone.

Dick left his motor near the brink of the cliff above the Falls and the two climbed down the
steep bank, stopping now and again to yield to the fascination of rushing water and to snuff
the fresh-flying mist as it swept into their faces.

Caught in the gully below, the stream, which had suddenly contracted a habit of unruliness,
tumbled onward under trees and through overhanging rocks until it joined the Mississippi a
half-mile away.

There were other people, hordes of them, tempted by May sunshine.

"What is it, Ellery," Dick demanded, "what deep-seated idealism is it that draws these crowds
to the most beautiful spot near town as soon as spring offers more than half an invitation?"

"It certainly isn't a poetry that crops out in their clothes or in their conversation," Norris
grumbled. "The staple remark seems to be, 'Gee, ain't it pretty?'"

"You mustn't expect to see aristocracy here; this is too cheap, and too easy to reach. Your
aristocrat prefers less beauty at greater effort and more cost. This is the place to touch
elbows with the populace."

They had climbed down the long winding steps by this time, and were leaning against the parapet
of a small rustic bridge that crossed below the Falls.

"Let's sit down on that bench," said Dick, "and let the sunshine trickle through the trees
and through us, and feel the spray in our nostrils, and delight in hanging maidenhair ferns,
and watch the girls go by--the girls in pink and blue dresses, each leaning on the arm of a
swain who grins. It's vastly more fun than a fashionable parade."

The branches met overhead, darkening the narrow chasm; the steep banks were spattered with
dutchman's breeches that fluttered like butterflies poised for a moment; down stream a few
yards, where the valley widened, lay a tiny meadow where the sun fell full on a carpet of crow-foot
violets that gave back the May sky. Two squirrels chased each other around a big maple, and
a blue jay looked on and commented.

"Why is this stream of girls and men out for their holiday like baked ice-cream?" asked Dick.
"That isn't a conundrum; it's a philosophic question."

"I know, they give you the same sense of incongruity," Ellery answered lazily.

"But I like them," Dick pursued. "I like a great many more kinds of people than you do, Norris.
You are narrow-minded. You want to associate only with the good and true and bathed."

"Oh, I wish well to the majority of the race, but there are some that I do not care to eat with."

Something in Ellery's voice made his friend turn and survey him.

"You look tired. You're working too hard. Don't make the western mistake of thinking frazzled
nerves mean energy."

"That isn't my kind," Ellery smiled. "I'm all right. Let me spurt for a while. I got my position
through favor, Dick, yours and Uncle Joe's. I didn't particularly deserve it, and I didn't
know anything about the work; so, for your sake as well as my own, I have determined to make
good. Friendship may give a fellow his chance, but it doesn't hold down a job, you know."

"Pooh! You've made good already. A man can be tremendously experienced--for the West--when
he's been at a thing a year. Look at me and my work."

"What do you consider your work? Road inspector?" For, to tell the truth, Norris was not wholly
satisfied with Dick's year of dawdling around the streets.

"My profession," Dick answered with oracular gravity, "is a combination of hard work and fine
art. It requires both toil and genius. I think I may say, with all natural modesty, that I
have shown great natural aptitude for it. My profession is making friends. I have made friends
useful and ornamental, friends great and small, friends beautiful and friends the opposite--which
reminds me of your previous question, city politics. Whom do you suppose I supped with last night?"

"Whom?"

"With the Honorable, or by courtesy dubbed Honorable, William Barry," Dick replied triumphantly.

"'Piggy' Barry?" ejaculated Ellery, turning on Dick in surprise. "Alderman Barry? The boss?"

"'Piggy' does somehow sound more appropriate than 'Honorable'," Dick said meditatively.

"And is he one of the people you like?" questioned Ellery with unfeigned surprise.

"For business purposes, yes. If I'm going to get into politics some day, it becomes me to cultivate
local statesmen, doesn't it? I took the great man to the theater, or at least to something
that called itself the theater, and I gave him an excellent supper afterward. He seemed to
appreciate it and my society."

"I dare say you made yourself agreeable. Do you expect he will help you in your public career?"

"Not voluntarily, perhaps; but I wanted to know him, better and better. Under benign influences,
he is indiscreet. He reminded me last night of Louis XIV. He might have said, 'St. Etienne,
it is I,' but in his simpler and less sophisticated language, he was content to remark, 'I'm
the whole damn show, see?'"

"I'm glad he knew enough to put the appropriate adjective before show," said Ellery grimly.

"And yet I suspect that, even in that statement, he lied," Dick went on. "I studied him last
night. You'll never persuade me that that man, whose head is all face and neck, does the intricate
planning and wire-pulling that runs this city. I've an idea Barry is only the two placards
on each side of the sandwich-man. He may be the adjective show, but I doubt if he's the man."

"Have you discovered who is the real sandwich-man?"

"No, I haven't. My reasoning is inductive. I see numerous little holes with small tips of threads
sticking through them, but when I try to get hold of the threads to pull them out and examine
them, the ends are too short or my fingers are too big. But get hold of them I shall, sooner
or later, by hook or crook. If I don't give some of those fellows the slugging of their lives,
my name isn't Richard Percival."

"I suspect that it is Richard Percival," said Ellery with a whimsical glance of affection.

"This, as I read it, is the history," Dick went on. "Six years ago, when you and I were sub-freshmen,
and unable to take an active part, there was a brief spasm of reform. It was a short episode
of fisticuffs and fighting, which is for a day--a very different thing from governing, which
goes steadily on from year to year. But this reform movement did result in giving the city
a good charter."

"The Garden of Eden was once fitted out with an excellent system of government."

"Exactly. Charters, left to themselves, do not regulate human nature. The good citizens of
St. Etienne went their own busy business way and left the less occupied bad citizens to adapt
the charter to the needs of life; and that was an easy job, so easy that it has apparently
been possible for one man to manage it. The charter put great power into the hands of the mayor.
There have been three mayors elected under it, and they have all been 'friends' of Billy Barry."

"I wonder if the next will be," queried Ellery thoughtfully.

"And the majority of every working committee appointed by the city council is made of 'friends'
of Piggy, who shows a fine disregard of party lines in his affiliations. William is one more
product of this horseless wireless age--a crownless king."

"What makes you think that he isn't the power he seems?"

"A lot of things. The business interests behind him do not seem to be wholly his. That is another
field for investigation."

"You started yesterday to tell me about a big policeman."

"Yes, Olaf Ericson, with the eyes and mustache of a viking above a blue uniform. When I met
him last he had just had the melancholy duty of cutting down a poor wretch that had hung himself,
and of sending for the coroner. He told me that the pathetic part of it was that the dead man
was a total stranger in the city; and then he winked and asked if I knew that though the city
paid the coroner his salary, the state guaranteed an extra fee of 'saxty dollar' to that official
for every stranger who met with sudden death within our limits? I didn't know, but I do now.
I took pains to look up last year's records and, curiously enough, out of one hundred and seventy-six
cases that required the services of a coroner, one hundred and fifty-one were those of strangers.
That would add about nine thousand dollars to a quite moderate salary. Another queer thing
is that Doctor Niger--the coroner, you know--is Billy Barry's brother-in-law."

"Great Scott!" said Ellery.

"Great Barry, say I. Now it may be my historic sense, or it may be mere curiosity, but I mean
to hunt up the personal history of those hundred-odd strangers who died forlorn and lonely
within our gates."

"Work quietly, Dick, and get your facts well in hand."

"I intend to. But when I have it all, don't you suppose your chief, Lewis, will be willing
to publish the record?"

"I hope so."

"I dare say the day will come when Barry and I shall cease to be friends," said Dick cheerfully.
"One must submit to the inevitable. But let's keep the papers dribbling out information to
the public. By the time the coroner story is finished, I expect to have another ready."

"Tell me."

"Not yet. What used old Eddy to preach to us in rhetoric? 'Before you attempt composition,
be sure that you have a rounded thought.' This isn't round, it's elliptical. Big Olaf is a
friend useful. He's a shrewd fellow, who's been looking stupid for some time. The 'bunch' hasn't
been treating him square. You can guess what that means. Anyway, he is sore as well as shrewd,
and now I fancy he belongs to me."

Norris turned with a start and stared Dick in the face.

"How did you get possession of him?" he asked sharply.

"Well, what if I bought him?"

"Do you mean that you are making up to him what Barry's dirty hands have failed to give? You
are bribing him to act as your spy?"

"I do not suppose there is any harm in my hiring a private detective."

"That depends on whether he is already a public official, and on how you pay him, and what
you pay him for."

"Ellery, those fellows have sentries and pickets and fortifications and guns always in battle-array
against us and our kind. The only thing to do is to gather hosts and ammunition on the other side."

"True. But there isn't any use in fighting dishonesty with dishonor. Dick, don't lower your
standard to the mere flinging of mud."

But Dick did not appear to listen. His eyes were caught by one of the passing couples and he
sprang to his feet.

"Let's follow the stream a little farther," he said, moving as he spoke. "The gorge grows wilder
and more enticing the farther you go."

He walked hurriedly down the path, and Ellery, whose mind seldom leaped, but progressed by
orderly steps, followed in some bewilderment. An instant before Dick's face had worn the profound
air of a man on whose shoulders rested mighty problems. Now every movement was boyish and exultant.
He laughed to himself. The stream thundered and one does not ask a friend to shout out his
minor moods, so Ellery forbore to question.

Suddenly the brook burst through overhanging cliffs of party-colored sandstone out of its thread-like
gorge into the wide chasm of the Mississippi. A small steamer lay at anchor and tooted a discordant
horn to signify to the world that she intended to be up and doing. A crowd of phlegmatic-faced
revelers stood upon the bank and watched her with absorbed indifference, while a smaller number
pushed aboard and prepared for true joy by laying in a store of cracker-jack and peanuts at
a diminutive counter.

"Just in time!" Dick ejaculated and he shoved Ellery on to the swaying deck as the hawsers
were swung loose.

They whirled out into mid-stream and exchanged the fine feminine delights of the brook for
the bold masculine ones of the great river, whose craggy banks rose high, like fortifications,
forest-crowned. Tangles of woodbine, clematis and bitter-sweet sprawled down over striated
rocks. The boat twisted its way through a current that boiled up from below in whirlpools.
Here and there huge logs plunged downward like water-monsters, as they threaded between wooded
islands, where meek-looking cottontails squatted and twiddled their noses at the passing craft;
on, on, until, far off, loomed the boldest highest cliff of all, its top crested by a quaint
old slit-windowed round tower of a fort, once a border defense against Chippewa and Sioux,
now backed by the sleek lawns of well-groomed officers.

Ellery looked around at his fellow passengers, contentedly munching their peanuts and conversing
in broad English flavored with Norse. They were a good-natured assemblage, who choked and snorted
and chuckled and whinnied in their laughter. Norris' eyes were caught by one girl, conspicuously
because plainly dressed. As she turned her profile, he glanced at Dick. Dick too was staring
at her, and even while Ellery eyed him, he raised his hat and bowed gravely, with a deferential
air that became him.

"So," exclaimed Norris under his breath, "that was why we tore like madmen to catch this boat!"

"It would have been a pity to lose it," Dick responded innocently. "It is a delicious bit of
scenery from here to the fort. I wanted you to see it."

"Pink and white scenery with yellow curls," jeered Ellery.

Dick made no reply and Ellery went on.

"She has a young man already. You can't go and take her away from him. That wouldn't be playing
fair."

"The man with her is an oaf. He has a loose mouth that wabbles when he opens it to pick his teeth."

"So you think that though you may not snatch her bodily, you may make her wish to be with you
instead of with him, and that the wish will lie fallow in her heart. Dick, you are a student
of human nature," Ellery said, half amused, half irritated.

"I dare say he is a gentleman at heart. Oafs always are."

"What you really do," Ellery continued, "is to make her uncomfortable and conscious of his
clothes and his sprawl. She flushed when she saw you, and she has been sitting stiffly ever since."

"Oh, drop it, Norris."

Ellery shrugged his shoulders.

"I don't know what you want to do it for," he said. "You're a queer combination, Dick, of the
whole-souled reformer and the abject goose."

"Nothing inconsistent about being a philanthropist and a philogynist. By Jove! She's pretty
in her malaise, pink, and pecking like a little wren at her oaf. Ellery, it's a brute of a
shame that such as she should be cast before him--she, a fine lacy creature who shows her breeding
through it all."

"How much are you in earnest?"

"There you go again!" Dick turned on his friend with a kind of exasperation. "You belong to
that period of social development when they ask a man's intentions if he looks twice at the
girl he dances with. I don't have to be in earnest, thank Heaven! But when I get a chance to
look at anything so lovely as that girl, I mean to do it, just as I look at a flower or a picture.
I don't mean to lose all the delicious froth of life. Do you happen to know her first name?"

"Lena," answered Ellery shortly.

"Lena! It's a delicate fragile little name--not meant for a girl who has to plug her way through
life. Her real name is Andromeda, poor child--chained to the rock and momently expecting the
jaws of poverty."

"You know, Dick, the attention that seems like a trifle to you, with a life full of interests,
may look like a serious affair to her."

"See here, old man, you needn't be so snippy. Must I confine my philanthropy to the old and
ugly to keep it above suspicion? I'm just so far interested in this, and no more, that I'm
sorry for that little girl, and if I saw a chance, I'd do her a good turn, as I pass along;
and if I didn't think more of you than of any other man, I wouldn't give you the satisfaction
of rendering so much of an account of myself."

Ellery was silent and looked at the river with its whirlpools, at the cliffs, gray with stone
and pale green with May, and sometimes at Dick, who leaned forward with his chin in his hand,
apparently absorbed in thought, but occasionally shooting a glance at Lena who laughed and
chattered with Mr. Nolan in a sort of intermittent fever.

The steamer tooted and splashed at the landing below the fort, and turned herself about for
the return trip. Sand-martins dropped from their holes in the cliffs and skimmed across the
bows, and the breeze blew fresher as they headed up stream. Still the two friends sat in silence,
though once Percival looked across and laughed, as though he enjoyed the other's seriousness.

"Norris, you are funny," he said.

"Why?"

"You always see consequences to things."

"Most things have both causes and effects," Ellery retorted, ruffled.

"I deny it," said Dick.

When they creaked at the dock, Dick suddenly pushed forward so that he almost touched Lena
in the crowd that was hurrying to shore.

"Good afternoon, Miss Quincy," he said. "I hope you have enjoyed this little sail as much as
I have."

Knowing that he had watched her ever since they started, she looked up at him with flushed inquiry.

"Yes, it was lovely," she said.

"Come on, Lena," exclaimed her escort, seizing her arm. "I guess we ought to hurry. There'll
be an awful crowd on the street-cars."

"If you'll allow me," said Dick, "I have an automobile up near the Falls, and I'd be delighted
to--"

"We come by the cars and I guess they're good enough for us to go home by," Mr. Nolan interrupted
roughly. "We're blocking the way here. Come, Lena." He glowered at Dick's lifted hat and added
quite audibly: "Confound the dude! Thought he could cut in, did he?"

"Now then," said Dick as he dropped back, "the oaf made a mistake. If he'd gracefully accepted
my offer, he'd have gone up several pegs in her estimation. As it is, when her pretty little
feet get trodden on by the crowd on the back platform, she will view us with regret as we whizz
by. Poor little Andromeda!"

They loitered as the other "trippers", now filled with zeal to catch the trolley, pushed past
them up the glen, and soon they were practically alone. Nature reasserted her sway as though
there had never been laughter and babble along the musical stream and under the over-arching
trees. The friends walked more and more slowly. A white thing lay on the path before them,
and Dick stooped to pick it up, while Ellery looked on with mild curiosity.

"It's a letter, stamped and sealed." Percival peered at it closely, for though the level sunlight
flooded the tops of the trees, down here by the stream it was fast growing dark.

"Not much sealed, either," he added, noticing what a tiny spot of the flap stuck tight to the
paper beneath. "Some one has dropped it here. By Jove, Ellery, it's addressed to William Barry!
I'd give a farm in North Dakota to know what's in it."

He turned it again and stared at the back.

"I noticed," said Ellery, "that there was a mail-box near where we left the automobile. You
can post it as we go along."

"Yes," assented Dick. He glared at the name of William Barry as though it fascinated him. Then
he tucked the letter into his breast pocket.

As the motor began to champ its bit, Norris remarked:

"You forgot to mail that letter, Dick."

"So I did," said Dick. "No matter. I'll post it in town. It will go all the quicker."

CHAPTER IX

AN INVITATION

A full month slipped away after the little excursion down the river before Dick saw Lena Quincy
again. In fact he had almost forgotten her. That day, if it was recalled at all, was chiefly
memorable because it marked a change in his attitude toward his chosen occupation. It seemed
that revelation after revelation poured upon him. The intricate threads of city politics fascinated
him more and more as he began to understand whence they led and whither.

But one day on the street Dick met and passed Lena. She gave him a little bow--wistful, it
seemed to him, and she looked tired and thin. His conscience smote him. He had really meant
to do a common kindly thing to cheer this girl, but it had slipped his mind. That night he
hunted up her address in his note-book and found his way to the dismal lodging-house.

Four cheap-looking young persons were loitering in the parlor, two were drumming on a piano
that was out of tune, and the room smelled fusty. The assembled group giggled and disappeared
upon his entrance, and Lena, when she came down the stairs, flushing with embarrassment and
pleasure, looked as much out of place as he felt. He stood before her, hat in hand. It would
be impossible to talk to her in such a room.

"Miss Quincy," he said, "it is such a perfect night that it is neither more nor less than self-torture
to stay indoors. Can't you be a bit unconventional and go out with me to the band concert in
the park?" He remembered that she went about with the oaf.

Lena hesitated. She realized that this call was a crucial affair to her, though his long delay
in coming proved it to be a casual matter to Mr. Percival. She must make no mistake. In her
instant's hesitation, while her soft eyes were looking inquiringly into his face, she had an
inspiration.

"I should love it, Mr. Percival," she said with that little air of reserve that set her apart.
"But don't you see, I--I--can't go with you--until--until you know my mother and unless she
approves."

"Of course," said Dick, quite unconscious of Lena's play-acting.

Lena turned and twisted a bit of worn blue plush trimming on the shelf over the gas-log before
she showed him a blushing face.

"The only thing I can do is to ask you to come up stairs and meet mother. She can hardly move
about enough to come down."

She led the way with anxiety in her heart as to how her mother would behave. Would she show
irritable astonishment if Lena treated her with gentle deference, and asked her permission
to be out in the evening with a strange young man? But Mrs. Quincy knew a thing or two as well
as her daughter, and Dick saw only that the room was very ugly, that Lena moved about with
lips compressed and voice gentle and full of tender consideration, to make her mother as comfortable
as possible before she went away.

"And I shan't keep you up late, mother, dear," Lena said with a final kiss that made Mrs. Quincy
wink to keep back the statement that she saw herself waiting for the return of her daughter.

The fresh evening air was delicious after this. Dick felt all his chivalry again stirred. It
made no difference that Lena said little to keep up her share in the conversation. Dick was
content to do the entertaining himself, and satisfied when Lena laughed. He bubbled over with
fancies old and new, and even the old ones took fresh life. The college stories and jokes that
everybody knew, the commonplaces of his world, set Lena exclaiming with delight. The excitement
of the night, and they two alone in the crowd, made the little girl cling to his arm for fear
they might be separated! There were quieter moments when they wandered to the outskirts and
found a bench for a moment's rest.

Once he spoke of some of the rough sides of her work, and she answered quietly that she was
used to such things and managed to forget their hardship. Dick glanced at her face, self-contained
in the gas-light. He remembered her mother and the ugly room. He had a vision of a sweet spirit
bearing an adverse fate with dignity, and now giving him, in return for his small act of courtesy,
the perfume of her presence, her beauty, her wondering admiration. For the time it seemed to
Lena herself that she was what he fancied her. She was only showing him, she thought, the best
side of herself. It was natural that she should hide the other.

The clock in the steeple far above tinkled out ten, and Lena drew herself to attention.

"Oh, not yet," Dick exclaimed. "Let's go somewhere and get an ice."

Again Lena hesitated. Even so small a luxury tempted her for its own sake, and she liked to
be with Mr. Percival. With Jim Nolan she would have gone in a moment, but she was determined
that this man should not think her too easy of access.

"I think not," she said reluctantly. "I must go home to mother. She isn't used to being up
late, and she needs my help."

She knew that she had answered well when he urged:

"Very well, then. If you will give such very little nibbles of your time, you must give me
more of them. Will you come out again--to the theater--off in the motor--anywhere?"

Lena could hardly speak, but she smiled up her thanks.

"Oh, Mr. Percival!" she said.

As he walked away after seeing her home, he felt himself irritated with the other women, the
women to whom ease and pleasure are a matter of course.

So they fell into the way of making little expeditions together, and Dick no longer joked with
Ellery about this delectable morsel of pinkness, but kept his growing intimacy to himself.
This dell by the way, into which he had strayed by accident, was becoming more fascinating
than the crammed highway with its buzzing life.

July and August and September passed and, in spite of her reserve, Dick felt that he was coming
to know little Lena well. He had told her all about himself, his mother, his three-cornered
intimacy with Norris and Madeline, his plans for his own future, and to all she listened, sometimes
with a dreamy far-off look in the big eyes, sometimes with a swift smile of sympathy, in spite
of the fact that he and his point of view were often puzzling to her. And he brought dainties
and flowers to the dingy room.

Lena, on her side, thoroughly enjoyed some phases of her acquaintance with Mr. Percival. Apart
from all other considerations, it was a real pleasure to prove herself the actress she knew
she was. She pretended, when she was with him, that she was a wholly different kind of person.
It was fun to do it well and convincingly and deliberately. It was exhilarating.

But deeper, far deeper than her histrionic satisfaction lay the hope that Dick Percival might
be the key to some other kind of life than that she led; and as the months went by, this hidden
intimacy, delicious to him because of its very remoteness, began to irritate her. Was he ashamed
of her? Was he playing with her? Privately she found Prince Charming, unless he meant something
more than a half-hour now and again, something of a bore. Of what pleasure could it be to her
that he was rich and happy and full of plans and in touch with all that was delightful, if
he gave none of this to her?

One evening she seemed listless as she sat enduring an account of a garden party he had been
to the day before. He had thought it might amuse her, but it evidently didn't.

"I'm always telling you of my affairs," he said half querulously. "Why don't you give me your
experiences?"

"There's nothing to tell," she said dully. "You've had so many interesting things happen, and
you expect ever so many more lovely things to come, but I've always been pinched, and I shall
have to keep on pinching for ever, I guess."

"Nonsense!" Dick answered impulsively. "The future is sure to bring you better things."

She looked down a moment, and Dick had an impression that she was holding back tears. At any
rate, when she lifted her head again, her face wore a cold little stare that he had never seen
before, and that seemed to hold him at arm's length.

"I'm quite alone with the people I have to live among," she said. "I'm not like them, and I
don't care for them."

"Am I one of your kind?" Dick asked. He reviled himself the next moment for having said so
much, but Lena seemed to draw no inferences, though her color heightened a little as she answered:

"Oh, you! There's only one of you, unfortunately. You are a little oasis in my desert. I'm
very grateful for you, but--"

Lena had said such things before. Dick began to revolve plans for a larger kindness, and, in
his slow masculine intellect, fancied that it was all his own idea to try and bring this small
person into contact with those who would appreciate her and with whom she could be happy,--for
of course Lena herself was quite submissive to her lot.

To Dick's friends this long summer dawdled itself away much as the previous one had done. There
were the same week-ends at the lake, with Dick more full of vivacity than ever, Ellery growing
more certain of himself, Madeline rounding slowly out of girlhood into womanhood. Yet there
was a difference. Half a dozen Sundays, when Percival was too busy, Ellery, half-irritated
with his friend, half-exultant in his desertion, spent the quiet afternoons à deux with Madeline.

It seemed to Norris that some indefinable change was coming over Dick. At times he was vivid,
even fantastic, and again he lapsed into erratic silences out of which he came at new and unexpected
points. He developed ideas that appeared to his friend not quite in keeping with the sterling
Dick of old. He was less sensitive, so thought Ellery, in his code of honor as he saw more
and more of the crooked ways of men. Once Norris met him walking with one of the cheaper aldermen,
and he wore a duplicate--in gilt--of the alderman's walk and swagger. He talked politics and
reform, but with less emphasis on his ideals and more on the game, which seemed to mean the
fun of catching the rascals red-handed and turning them out.

Madeline, as Ellery studied her, was unaware of any change either in Dick himself or in his
attitude toward her. It was like her to be above suspicions or small jealousies.

So summer slipped into October, and there came a month of lovely days. Winter, after a feint,
slunk into hiding again, and the only result of his excursion was a more splendid red on the
maples, a more glowing russet on the oaks. Indian summer reigned in his stead, flinging broadcast
her gorgeous colors and her melting mellowness. That men might not surfeit of her sweets, she
tempered her daytime prodigality of heat by nights of frost. People were coming back to town,
a few, very few, in velvet gowns, but mostly in rags and anxious about their autumn wardrobes;
and yet these were days to make one long, as one does in spring, for the smell of the good
brown earth and the sniff of untainted country air. The atmosphere was full of glowing warmth
that penetrated to the heart and made every face on the street reflect some of its delight;
for autumn with her thousand charms and witcheries was proving that she died, not from gray
old age, but in the fullness of her prime.

Madeline Elton, therefore, wished herself back again with the fallen maple leaves and the pines
that held their own; and Mrs. Lenox was fitting temptation to desire as the two hobnobbed over
cups of tea in easy friendliness. When Dick Percival appeared, Mrs. Lenox saw the way to make
her bait irresistible.

"Dick," she cried, "just the man! Don't you pine for sunshine in your nostrils instead of city
smoke? Doesn't the thought of winter coming, cold and long, make you appreciate these last
heavenly gleams? Do you remember what a delicious week you and Mr. Norris and Madeline spent
with me a year ago?"

"Yes, to everything," said Dick. "All of which means--what? No cream, please, Madeline."

"All of which means," answered the lady, "that Mr. Lenox and I are wise in our generation and
do not fly to the city when the first birds go south; that I want Madeline to come and pay
me a visit; that, as a kind of sugar-plum, a chromo, if you please, to induce her to buy my
wares, I propose that you and Mr. Norris should join us on the Sunday of next week. What do
you say?"

"May the Lord prosper you, and I'll do my part as an attraction," Dick replied heartily. "But
I choose to be a sugar-plum rather than a chromo, especially if Madeline is going to eat me."

"I didn't need any additional inducement, Mrs. Lenox," said Madeline. "Yourselves and all out-doors
are surely sufficient. It will be good to get away from the grime. Now what bee have you in
your bonnet, Dick?" For a new look had come into his face as she spoke.

Percival had been glancing around the cheerful comfortable room whose very books and pictures
suggested peace of mind. It seemed to him that he looked with Lena's longing eyes rather than
with his own, familiar with these surroundings. He was thinking how little his small courtesies
counted, and how much these women could do if they chose. Why shouldn't he be bold? Madeline
and Mrs. Lenox were simple-hearted enough to take his plea at its true value, and not misunderstand
his motives. They would be interested in Lena in exactly the same way he was. He smiled at
Madeline's serenely inquiring face.

"Well, Dick?" she asked again.

"I was wondering whether I dared to suggest a little act of human kindliness to you two. You
women are so much more ready to do such things than men are, but we are more apt to run up
against the cases where it is needed. There's a pathetic little girl doing some hack work for
the Star. Norris knows her. She's just one of those delicate creatures that ought to live in
the sheltered corner of a garden, and she's out on a bleak prairie. She's about as much like
the people she has to associate with as an old-fashioned single rose is like a cabbage. Even
her mother, who is the only relative she has, is nothing but a fretful porcupine of a woman.
I've been to see them a few times and the situation seems to me almost intolerable. If ever
a girl needed a friend or two, it's she--not for charity, you understand, but just for real
contact with people of her own kind. Now a man's not much use in such circumstances, is he?
But naturally I think you are about the best kind of a friend in the world, so I came up this
afternoon partly to see if you wouldn't give her a hand."

"It sounds as though it might be more of a pleasure than a painful duty."

"So it would. You'd take to her, I know," the young man went on eagerly. Mrs. Lenox watched
him in somewhat irritated amusement. "She hasn't your brains, of course, Madeline, but she
has such charm, such simplicity and freshness, that you can't help liking her. And she grubs
away at perfectly uncongenial work, and lives with this fusty old mother in a fusty little
lodging-house. It makes me sick to think of such daily crucifixion. I've no business to say
it, I know; but when you spoke about a week at the lake, I couldn't help thinking what such
a thing would mean to her. She'd think herself in Paradise."

"I suppose, Dick, that this is your adroit and tactful way of suggesting that I should ask
her," Mrs. Lenox said, laughing.

And Madeline, who, if Dick had proposed that Mrs. Lenox should turn her very charming summer
home into an orphan asylum, would have considered that the proposition, as coming from him,
was entitled to consideration, put in:

"I think it would be a lovely thing to do, Vera."

"And we should probably let ourselves in for a frightful bore."

"And you might entertain an angel unawares," said Dick.

Mrs. Lenox knit her brows and meditated. She didn't quite like Dick's championship of this
unknown girl, nor did she trust to his judgment; but, like a wise woman, she wanted to know
what was the thing that had attracted him, and was big enough in heart to be willing to do
a good turn wherever she could.

"This is the oracle of the Pythia," she said at last. "We will not commit ourselves to anything
at the behest of Richard Percival. On my way to the station, now, in fact, Madeline and I will
go to see this rose among cabbages. We will introduce ourselves as your friends, Dick. If we
think you are a mere deluded male thing, there the matter ends. If we, too, are carried away
by enthusiasm, we will invite her on the spur of the moment, and Mr. Lenox, who, like most
married men, is a connoisseur in pretty girls, can talk to her. Will this suit you, Dick?"

"Excellently," said Dick, "I know the result."

"Then you'll come next Saturday? Madeline is coming day after to-morrow and I'll write to Mr.
Norris. Heaven send these days of sun continue. Now if we are to pay this call, and I am to
catch my train, we must be off."

Miss Quincy, having quarreled with her mother over her extravagance in buying a feather boa
with the proceeds of her last small check, was seated by the window, industriously concocting
a new hat. The Swedish "girl", whose unfortunate fate it was to minister to the wants of Mrs.
Olberg's lodgers, gave a kind of defiant pound on the door, opened it and thrust in a disheveled
blond head, followed by a hand puckered from the dish-water.

"Haar's cards, Miss Quincy," she said, "Dar's twa ladies down staars."

She dropped the cards on the floor and disappeared. Lena, in great curiosity, picked them up
and read aloud:

"'Mrs. Francis Lenox; Miss Elton.'"

"For the land's sake! Who air they?" asked her mother.

"Two of the biggest swells in town."

"Well, what on earth do they want here? We ain't very swell."

"Perhaps they want me to report some party or something," said Lena.

She was losing no time in giving her hair one or two becoming jerks and going through a series
of wriggles meant to impart grace and style to her costume.

"Perhaps they want to give you a million dollars," said Mrs. Quincy sarcastically.

Lena, with heart burning with mingled shame at her own shabby surroundings, curiosity at their
errand, and awe for the mighty names, entered the little parlor which gave the impression of
never having been cleaned since it was born with its cheap worn plush furniture, its crayon
portraits and its two vases of gaudy blue and gold. She faced the two ladies seated on the
impossible chairs. Lena was almost as startling an apparition in that room as was Ram Juna's
rose in the dusty phial--whether a miracle or a clever trick. She looked so untouched by any
vulgarity in her surroundings, so fresh and true, so instinct with virgin dignity, that the
eyes that met her own were filled with the tribute of surprise; and she exulted in some hidden
corner of her soul.

In the half-hour that they spent together she measured her new acquaintances carefully.

"And these are women of the world!" she said to herself. "Why, they're boobies. I could do
them up any time."

For Lena did not know that women of this type are the most protected creatures on the face
of the earth. The knowledge of good is given them, but not the knowledge of evil.

So she told them all about herself, which was what they seemed to want to hear, and when they
went away Madeline said:

"I wonder if there are many such born to blush unseen. What an exquisite little tragedy she is!"

And Mrs. Lenox answered: "U--u--m! Well, I've asked her, haven't I? I think the microbe of
Dick's impulsiveness must have got into me."

Lena stood back in the shadow of the room to watch her departing guests. Then she ran up stairs
with light steps, ruffling her plumes like a cocky little lady-wren as she went back to the
dreariness where Mrs. Quincy sat rocking her inevitable creaking chair.

"Well!" asked her mother after a pause, a pause just long enough, the daughter knew, to fill
her with irritable curiosity.

"Well," Lena answered smartly, "and what do you think? They came to call, if you please, because
Mr. Percival asked them to; and they were sweet as honey. And Mrs. Lenox asked me to spend
a whole week at her country place."

"For the land sake!"

"I guess," Lena went on with complacence, "Mr. Percival must have said something pretty nice."

Her mother stared at her speechless, and it was such an unusual thing for Mrs. Quincy to be
struck dumb that Lena was correspondingly elated as she rattled on.

"Such dresses! I'd give anything to have such clothes and wear them with that kind of an every-day,
don't-care air. My, but Mrs. Lenox is a stunner! But the Lenoxes are just rolling in money;
and they say Mr. Lenox hadn't a red cent when she married him and gave him his start. It's
lucky I have another check coming from the Star. I'll need more things than ever it will buy
to go out there. I must begin to get ready right away."

The mention of expenditure brought Mrs. Quincy back to her normal state of mind, and she resumed
her rocking. Lena's means and extremes in shopping were her standard grievance.

"I might know that 'ud be the next thing. Of course you'll be spending every penny you can
rake and scrape on clothes, so's to look fine for your new fine friends. It's no matter about
me. I can go without a decent rag to my back, so long as you've got feathers and flummery."

"Well, I earned the money. I don't see why I shouldn't spend it. I'm not robbing you," said
Lena sulkily.

"You might contribute a mite to your own board."

"I'll save you my board for a week," snapped the girl.

Mrs. Quincy changed her tack. "And leave me shut up in town," she resumed. "I should think
you'd think twice, Lena, before you went off gallivantin' and left your poor old mother here
alone. Nobody seems to think I need any pleasure."

"I'll write and ask Mrs. Lenox if she won't take you instead of me."

"Take me! I should think not! I wouldn't be hired to leave my own place and go off like a charity
case among a lot of rich people who looked down on me because I was poor. I've got too much
self-respect to jump at an invitation, like a pickerel at a frog. But there! You never think
twice about things."

"Suppose I did refuse. You'd fly out at me for not making the most of my chances," said poor
Lena, on the verge of tears.

Mrs. Quincy was temporarily silenced by the truth of this reply, and Lena pursued her advantage.

"Come now, mother, do you want me to get out of it?"

"Oh, I suppose you'll have to go, or I won't have no peace to my life," Mrs. Quincy grudgingly
responded.

"Yes, you shall. If you say so, I'll give it up now and never say another word about it."

"And act injured to death," said her mother. "No, you go!"

"After you've done everything you can to spoil it for me," answered Lena, not half realizing
how well she spoke the truth, and how both by inheritance and by precept her mother had trailed
the serpent over her life. To Lena, fortune and misfortune were still things of outward import,
and almost synonymous with possession and non-possession. Yet, in spite of Mrs. Quincy's dour
looks, Lena found herself singing as she moved swiftly about the room. Spontaneous joy was
a rare thing with her. The first peep into the delectable world was entrancing.

CHAPTER X

BITTER-SWEET

It was all charming, if a little strange--the friendliness of Miss Elton when Lena met her
at the station, the smart trap and groom that met them at the end of their short journey, the
very way in which Miss Elton took possession of those awe-inspiring objects, and the respectful
curiosity of the loungers at the country station. As she stepped into the carriage, Lena caught
a glimpse of a cart-horse with so many ribs as to suggest that the female of his species had
yet to be created. He looked so like her mother, that he gave her a spasm of anguish which
she tried to forget, as they were whirled down the road with its fringe of straight-limbed
trees. Never had the world looked more lovely. Her spirits were lifted up.

Mrs. Lenox met them at the door with hospitable effusiveness, but Lena's crucifixion began
from that moment.

"The man will carry your bag up for you," said Mrs. Lenox.

As Olaf obediently stepped forward, Lena flushed and thought: "They both noticed that it was
only imitation leather."

Mrs. Lenox walked up stairs with them, chattering gaily with Madeline, and Lena followed in
embarrassed silence at the charming freshness and daintiness of everything about her.

"I've put you and Miss Elton in adjoining rooms," said Mrs. Lenox, smiling kindly at her, "so
that you needn't feel remote and lonely on your first visit here."

The man put down the bag and disappeared, and a trim maid came forward to help Lena off with
her coat which, with a sudden pang, she wished were lined with satin instead of sateen.

"Sall Ay unpack you bag?" said the little maid politely.

"No, thank you. I prefer to do it myself," said Lena desperately. It was more than she could
endure to have a strange girl spying out the nakedness of the land. Yet when the little maid
said, "Vary well, ma'am," and walked into the next room, Lena wondered if she had made a mistake.
She heard Miss Elton's cheerful address of the appalling personage with the puffed up bit of
hair and the saucy cap.

"How do you do, Sophie?"

"Good day, mees. As thar anything Ay can do for you?"

"I fancy my dress would be better for a good brushing after the dusty train, and the gown I
want is in the top tray of the little trunk, Sophie."

The door closed and Lena wondered in terror what of her small store of finery she ought to
put on, and when she ought to go down stairs. She solved the first question to the best of
her ability and sat down on the edge of a very clean beflowered chair in despair about the
other, when there came voices in the hall, and Madeline tapped on her door, and called:

"Don't you want to come out and see the baby?"

Now Lena detested babies as sticky and order-destroying vermin, but in relief she said: "A
baby? Oh, how lovely!"

"Come," said Mrs. Lenox. "The proper study of womanhood is baby." Lena went out to find a very
small person in a very tottering condition, steered up and down the hall by another be-capped
maid who was holding tight to his rear petticoats, while Mrs. Lenox trotted by his side, pulling
a woolly lamb that baa'd with enchanting precision, and allowing her skirts to be worried by
a small puppy, whose business in life was to bite anything hard that lay on the floor or that
wiggled. Mrs. Lenox and Miss Elton sat down on the floor to towsle and to be towsled amid laughter
and hair-pulling and frantic yelps from the puppy, while Lena looked on and said: "Isn't he
cunning?" and wondered whether she ought to sit on the floor or not. She wondered if this were
indeed the millionaire Mrs. Lenox of whom she read with awe from the "In the swing" column
as being present at such and such "society functions", thus and thus attired.

Somehow Mrs. Lenox, seated on the floor, with her hair over one eye, disconcerted Lena more
than any amount of grandeur would have done. She felt as one might who should catch the Venus
of Melos cutting capers. Then the redoubtable lady jumped up, tucked in a few hair-pins, gave
a final shake to her small son and said:

"I dressed little Frank myself this afternoon. Don't you think I did a good job? Dressing a
baby combines all the pleasures of the chase with the requirements of the exact sciences, Miss
Quincy. Now let's go down and have some tea before big Frank gets home. I think we've time
for a little friendly chat."

This time Lena followed with greater sense of security. She knew her dress was pretty and becoming,
though inexpensive; and as for conversation, that to Lena's mind meant clothes and society,
with which she felt a journalistic familiarity.

"Perhaps you prefer cream in your tea?" said Mrs. Lenox, with hand poised over the little table.

"No, thank you, I like lemon," answered Lena, who had never tasted it before and now thought
it very nasty indeed. Then she wondered why she had told such a small useless lie.

But it was comfortable to be in a big lovely room with a pile of logs blazing in a great fireplace,
and soft lamps shedding a glow rather than making spots of light. She wished she had, like
Madeline, picked out a very easy chair instead of the stiff one she had selected, but she felt
too shy to move until Mrs. Lenox suggested it, and then she was embarrassed because she was
embarrassed. She wondered if she should ever be able to do things like these women, without
thinking of what she was doing.

Madeline was idly turning the pages of a magazine and now she held it up.

"Look at these illustrations. Aren't they stunning?"

"I don't know," said Mrs. Lenox. "I'm growing tired of that kind of thing. It isn't art; it's
a fad. The trouble with most of this modern work is that it is too smart and fashionable. The
clothes are more important than the people."

"Quite a contrast to ancient art, where the people were everything and the clothes nothing,"
Madeline retorted. "After all, I rather like the modern way. The old Greeks were not a bit
more real people. They were nothing but types."

"And very decapitated and de-legged types," said Mrs. Lenox with a laugh. "And dirty, too--like
the Sleeping Beauty. Do you know, it gives me the shivers to think of the Sleeping Beauty,
lying there for ages, with dust and cobwebs accumulating on her. I'm sure I hope the prince
gave her a thorough dusting before he kissed her."

"You are horribly realistic, Vera--a person with no imagination."

"I think I have just shown a truly vivid imagination."

"It is the business of imagination to build up a world of loveliness and order."

"I don't agree with you. I think it is the business of imagination to project things as they
really are. I don't want to slip out from under reality and see only beauty. Beware, Madeline,
or you will degenerate into a mere optimist."

"Isn't it funny that if your opponent can call you an optimist, he feels that he has delivered
a knock-down blow to all your arguments?" Mrs. Lenox suddenly pulled herself together and turned
toward Lena, who sat silently drinking her tea and taking no part in the conversation.

"Did you tell me that your mother is an invalid, Miss Quincy?"

"Not exactly; but she can't go about much. It seems to play her out to walk."

"It must be very hard on her to stay in the house all the time. I wonder if I might take her
to drive with me once in a while?" A scarlet flush passed over Lena's face at the very idea
of her mother's querulous vulgarity being displayed to this woman, and Mrs. Lenox could not
help seeing her embarrassment.

A little wave of pity swept over the older woman. It must be a cruel fate to be ashamed of
one's surroundings. Mrs. Lenox herself was one of those serious-minded persons who regard their
opportunities as responsibilities. She waged constant warfare with the dominion of externals,
and believed with all her heart that the life was more than raiment; but a momentary doubt
assailed her as to whether, after all, it might not be easier to conquer things when one owned
them, rather than when one had to do without them. It has generally been Dives who is represented
as enslaved by the goods of this world. Perhaps Lazarus, if his heart is absorbed in sordid
longing for what others have and he has not, stands just as poor a chance of the kingdom of Heaven.

What could she do to make Miss Quincy feel at ease? The girl certainly had brains and character.
Dick had told them of her brave bearing of burdens. This stiff back and this silence were but
the tribute of shyness to new surroundings. So ran Mrs. Lenox's swift thoughts and she set
herself to make Lena talk about the things with which she was familiar, to link her past to
this present.

Evidently the same thought was flitting through Madeline's brain, for before Mrs. Lenox spoke
she began:

"Do you know, Miss Quincy, I have felt a little envy of you ever since Dick first told us about
you."

"Envy! Of me?" Lena exclaimed, moved to genuine surprise.

"Yes," Madeline went on, leaning forward, eager to explain herself. "You see, I seem to have
had a good deal of training, which looks as though it should prepare me to do something, and
then--then I don't do anything. It makes me feel flat and unprofitable. I'd like to feel like
you every night--as though I'd really accomplished a thing or two."

"Isn't it like Madeline to try to make the girl feel the dignity of drudgery!" Mrs. Lenox said
to herself.

"The stuck-up thing!" thought Lena; "rubbing it into me that she does not have to work for
her living."

She was tempted to make a sharp answer, but remembered her diplomacy and held it in.

"Work isn't always so pleasant when you're in it," she said.

"Everything is apt to look rough around the edges until you hold it off and get a view of it
as a whole," Mrs. Lenox put in. "Even love--sometimes. But I think that, next to love, work
is about the best thing in life."

"Oh, that depends," Madeline cried. "When I read papers at clubs, people talk about my 'work',
but nobody thinks that it is worth while. I'd like to earn a dollar, just as a guaranty that
some one thought the thing I did was worth it."

"Gracious!" Lena exclaimed in genuine surprise. "Do you really feel that way about earning money?"

"Don't you?" Madeline asked in return; and each looked at the other uncomprehendingly.

"No, I don't," Lena burst out sullenly, but forgetting to be shy. "I feel degraded by every
dirty five-dollar bill I get by being a slavey. People make you feel that way. You get it rubbed
into you every day."

"No, no," Mrs Lenox cried, remorseful now that their talk had drifted into such intimate personalities.
"I am sure, Miss Quincy, nobody feels that way about a woman that works, except, perhaps, people
whose opinion you can well afford to despise." This was a shaft that struck so near home that
Lena could hardly hold back the tears. "I am sure I think a thousand times more of a woman
who does her honest share than I do of the helpless ones who lie down on somebody else and
whine," Mrs. Lenox went on.

Madeline was inwardly bemoaning her own lack of tact. She really wanted to make a friend of
this girl, because Dick had asked her to, and here, at the very beginning, she had stumbled,
and all that was meant to show her regard and sympathy but served to make a gulf between them.

Mrs. Lenox darted a look at her and sprang suddenly to her feet.

"Oh, here's Frank," she exclaimed with an air of relief. "Come in, boy, and have some tea and
fire. It was good of you to come so bright and early."

"Earlier than bright, I'm afraid," he said.

Lena looked with interest toward the door. Frank Lenox was great in St. Etienne, first because
he was the son-in-law of old Nicholas Windsor, a potentate of the first local magnitude, and
second, because he was pushing to still greater success the enterprises that the elder man
had begun. So people talked about him in the street-cars by his first name. Lena felt that
it was a privilege to look at him, big, clean, with that mingling of alertness with power which
is the characteristic of the American business man. It was an experience of absorbing interest
to see the half underhand caress he gave his wife in passing, and to find herself actually
shaking hands with him. He seemed imposing and friendly and yet quite like other people, as
he looked around for a capacious chair and his wife handed him a cup of tea. She was conscious
that he looked at her with great interest. She recognized the expression in masculine eyes
and it soothed her ruffled spirit. It was the constant affirmation of her beauty, a beauty
which had in it something dream-like that made men's eyes dream. After all, she could always
get along with men.

"If you'd know what brought me home before my time, it was not your charms, my dear, but a
mad desire to get away from Harris, who cornered me and opened up the negro question. I saw
nothing for it but to take to the woods."

"It makes my traditional abolition blood boil to see how public opinion seems to be settling
down and dallying with heresy and injustice again," Madeline exclaimed. She looked flushed
and vigorous, and Lena stared at her and wondered how she could care for such things. Was it
pure affectation?

"Oh, you're young, my dear," said Mrs. Lenox laughingly. "You must hold all your opinions violently.
And you haven't been South. Things can't help looking different down there."

"Vera!" cried Miss Elton so explosively that Lena sat up straighter than ever, "you're not
really a renegade yourself, are you?" and she spoke as though her life depended on the answer.

"Certainly not," Mrs. Lenox answered. "But I'm growing tolerant toward the poor old world as
it is. I'm willing to let it grow slowly instead of insisting that it shall all be immediately
as good and wise as I am. I'm learning to respect other people's point of view and to suspect
that my mind is not such an ingenious mechanism as I once supposed it to be."

"Moreover, since she has married, she has contracted a habit of taking the opposite point of
view," said her husband.

"Oh, that's one of the jokes that has successfully withstood the ravages of time," said Mrs.
Lenox scornfully.

"Very well, then, I'll say that you are getting on toward middle life and have had your enthusiasms
corrupted by a worldly-wise father and husband. But I dare say that Miss Quincy, being young,
is quite as explosive as you are, Madeline. So we shall be two against two."

He looked with a challenge toward the girl, and perhaps Lena might have managed the expected
saucy answer if she had not suddenly remembered that her shoes were shabby and she had meant
to keep them hidden under her skirts. This memory destroyed her new-found equilibrium, so she
blurted out a weak, "I really don't know anything about it," and then blushed hotly at her
own awkwardness.

"It's a stupid subject, anyway," said Mr. Lenox. "I fled from town to avoid it. Let's not talk
about negroes."

"Tell us what has happened in the great world," said Mrs. Lenox, leaning forward with her elbows
on her knees and chin in hands.

"Another Jap victory," he said. "And I'll take a second one of those little cakes please, if
Miss Quincy will leave one for me. It cuts me to the heart to see how the young girls of our
generation stuff on little cakes. If they'd only take example by these same Japanese, who develop
strategy and patriotism on rice, cherry blossoms and gymnastics, there'd be some hopes for
us as a people."

He glanced again at Lena in a very amiable manner, as though he expected her to be saucy in
return, but she blushed with mystification and mortification. She had felt doubtful as to whether
she ought to take another of the little cakes, but they were very good, and she was young enough
to love goodies, without many chances at anything so delectable as these particular bits. And
now to be detected and made fun of! She began to question if she should be able to get along
with these men, after all.

"Thank you," he went on after a pause. "And now that I'm comforted with cake, another cup of
tea, Vera; and then, if you would complete my happiness, just give me a posy out of that bouquet
for my buttonhole."

His wife rose, pulled a flower from a vase and pinned it to his coat.

"Here's mignonette! That's for dividends," she said, and she put her fingers in his hair and
gave his head a little shake.

"Don't infringe on my head,--it's patented," he said. "Now go and sit down, and I will tell
you something really exciting as well as instructive. I know about it because I have the privilege
of helping the good work with a few dollars. Professor Gregory has dug up two or three hundred
old manuscripts somewhere near Thebes, and he cables that they belong to the first century
after Christ, that he expects them to illuminate most of the dark recesses of the time, and
that I am privileged to share the glory by making an ample contribution. Doesn't that stir
your young blood? I never hear of these things without a passionate desire to go to some respectably
aged land and dig and dig and dig. It's a choice between doing so and making things in this
very new land for some other fellow to dig up six thousand years from now. Which would you
choose, Miss Quincy?"

Lena was extraordinarily pretty, and he had a theory that pretty girls were made to be talked
to. Lena thought so too, yet all she said was, "I should think the digging would be very dirty
work, though."

He glanced at her swiftly, and, though there was nothing unfriendly in the look, she felt an
uncomfortable shiver. She fell into a miserable silence which she hardly broke when the others
addressed her with a deliberate question or made some manifest effort to include her in topics
introduced for her benefit. These attempts were only too apparent to her and rasped her soul
the more. These people had such a perplexing way of saying whatever came into their heads.
They were serious and frivolous at unexpected places. They were not at all "elegant"; they
were natural, but their naturalness was not of Lena's kind. Mr. Lenox rose and smiled at his wife.

"I think I must go and have a look at my latest son," he said. "He is a very interesting person.
At present he seems to be composed of two simple but diverse elements, a stomach and a sense
of humor." At the door he paused again and said, "Have you seen our new coat of arms, Madeline?--two
kids rambunctious?"

He went away and sounds of manifest hilarity floated down the stairs. And then dinner was announced,
and he looked so good-tempered when he returned and gave Lena his arm that her spirits were
again lifted up. She had never before been escorted to a meal as though it were an affair of
ceremony.

"I met an old fellow to-day," her host began with persistent attempt to draw her out, "that
told me that for two years he had dined on bread and milk. And then I felt that I was a favorite
of fortune to be able fearlessly to storm the dining-room. Happy the appendix that has no history."

Lena giggled helplessly. Was it amusement that she saw in Mr. Lenox's eyes as he unfolded his
napkin and surveyed her?

"It's an awesome thing, isn't it, to be living in a world darkened on one side by the servant
question and on the other by the appendix, like Scylla and Charybdis?"

She found herself sitting down to face the mysteries of a meal whose type was different from
any hitherto met in her brief experience of life. Her internal summing up was, "Of course I
can't make any impression on Mr. Lenox. He likes the other kind of woman."

She looked at Mrs. Lenox, a woman of restraint and dark hair and straight lines, and contrasted
her with herself, a thing of curves and sunshine colors. She did not know that a man never
cares for a type of woman, but only for woman in the concrete. Poor little Lena! When the evening
was over and she found herself at last in her too-splendid bedroom, she put arms and head down
on the dressing-table and sobbed. These people were simple where she was complicated and complicated
where she was simple. It was all uncomfortable and different. She thought of Jim Nolan's unfrilled
conversation, of his clumsy, rather inane compliments, of his primitive amoeba-like type of
humor. She saw the whole course of her life of mean shifts and wranglings with her mother;
and though its moral niggardliness was unappreciated, its physical meagerness sickened her
in contrast to the ease and beauty of these newer scenes. She must climb out of that life,
somehow, by hook or crook; if this were the alternative, she must grow to its likeness, no
matter how the birth-pangs hurt. She would face it. She would even rejoice in the opportunity
to study these women and mold herself to their outward form of bien aise. She would--she would.
Faint and far-away voices came to her, and she wondered if Mr. and Mrs. Lenox were discussing
her and laughing, as she would do in their place, at her gaucheries. The meaner you are yourself,
the easier it is to believe in the meanness of others. It was the most godlike of men who taught
the godliness of all men. Lena could not imagine that these people could either like or respect
her unless she were molded after their pattern and had as much as they had.

And Miss Elton! She hated Miss Elton for that irritating calmness, for that easy appropriation
of the good things of life. She hated with a hate that tingled her spine and shook her small
body. The tragedy of littleness made her grit her teeth as she thought of the unconscious girl
now going to bed in the next room.

"I'll get even with her somehow," was Miss Lena's resolve. "Just let me get the hang of things
a little, and I'll show her!" Miss Quincy was conscious that though she as yet lacked knowledge
of their world, she had the advantage of the inheritance of guile.

But things! things! things! Lena thought a little of the irony of it--that all her life she
had pined to be set in luxury, and yet now and here the very rugs and chairs and soft lights,
the pictures of unrecognized subjects, the unfamiliar delicacies before her at the table, all
seemed to loom up and crush her into insignificance by their importance and expensiveness.
They were her masters still.

But it was not Lena's way to waste her time on abstractions. While she sat and watched her
fire crumble away into ashes, she was chiefly occupied with the concrete, and there entered
into her soul and took possession of its empty chambers and began to mold her to her own purposes
the demon of social ambition, which is not the desire to do or to be, but rather the longing
to appear to be and to seem to do--to take the chaff and leave the wheat.

Mastered by this powerful spirit, Lena actually did make great strides in the next few days.
She learned to lounge quite comfortably, to pretend with verisimilitude, even to chatter a
little, helped chiefly by a certain persistent light-weight on the part of Mr. Lenox; but the
life was hard and the rewards meager. All the time she suspected Miss Elton and Mrs. Lenox
of despising her, because she had so much less than they. Their kindliness was but an added insult.

CHAPTER XI

POLITICS AND PLAY

It was with joy that Lena stood, on Saturday night, with Mrs. Lenox and Miss Elton on the veranda,
and hailed the advent of a large red automobile, which disgorged, besides Mr. Lenox, two dress-suit
cases and two young men. Mr. Percival had liked her in her natural state and with him she would
not need to "put on style". He was to her the shadow of a great rock in a desperately thirsty
land. The only kind of pretense that he demanded was that she should be a dear innocent little
girl, and that rôle came easily. She smiled and blushed and saw that there was a difference
in his eyes when he greeted her from the look he bent on the other two ladies. It was balm
to her spirit to think that this man, who admired her, was himself admired by the people whom
she suspected of despising her; and that they did admire him was evident. They were hardly
seated at dinner before Mrs. Lenox began:

"Dick, I have just been reading your last night's speech at the Municipal Club and I'm quite
effervescing with it. I want to put you up on a pedestal and call the attention of Mr. Frank
Lenox to you. He is one of the innumerable excellent gentlemen, over the length and breadth
of the land, who are so busy running everything else that they let city politics go to the
place that I'm not allowed to mention. It does my heart good to see you taking it up in earnest."

"It was a good speech, all right. I've read it, too," said Mr. Lenox. "And I'm all the wretch
my wife calls me. I wish I'd heard you in your frenzy, Percival, though I have less faith in
speeches and principles than she has. Reform is only a seed, you know, and most seeds never
come to maturity or bear fruit. So most people justly doubt the reformer."

"Do you think we're thin sound-waves who do nothing but vibrate?" said Dick.

"Not at all; but I mean there are no such things in the world as abstractions. There are only
men and women. Thoughts don't seethe; men and women seethe. Principles don't reform or corrupt;
men and women do the reforming and corrupting. If you want to do things, don't begin by making
the air resound with denunciations of wickedness; but make people believe in you and despise
the other fellow. When they like you they'll begin to think about your ideas."

"I don't know any better way to make people believe in me than to stand up for what I think
to be right," said Dick sharply.

"Stand up all you like," Lenox answered. "But the trouble with most good people is that they
are contented to stand up. To arrive anywhere you've got to get right down and scrap."

"Oh, I'm only trying my muscle a bit," Dick answered laughingly. "I do not intend to do much
generalizing except in the way of advertisement. I'm planning to put a spoke in the wheels
of a few particular wrongs."

"That's what I hope. It's easier to fulminate than to fight."

"Then you'll be glad to know that Dick has already been answerable for galvanizing the Municipal
Club into new life," Ellery put in. "It has been, as you know, a delightfully scholarly affair,
any of whose members were quite capable of writing a text-book on civics; but Dick has roped
in a lot of new men and stirred up the old ones."

"To what end?"

"Well, for two things; we have appointed committees to keep close tab on all of the proceedings
of the council--to attend every meeting--and others to work up the ward organizations so that
we shall be prepared to work intelligently and together by the next election. We want to get
some clean business man, who is well known, to stand for mayor. There's a chance for you, Lenox."

Lenox laughed. "You've caught me there, haven't you? I am condemned for being still in the
stage where I am content to mention things with indignation. However, if you have really gone
so far, I'm more than willing to trail after you. I'll at least back you with a few facts,
such as every business man knows, and I'm good for a substantial contribution toward any campaign
you may undertake. And what I do there are others who will do, too."

"I'll not forget your promise," said Dick.

As usual, when men talk public affairs, the women had been content to listen, but Madeline's
temperament was too strong for her restraint.

"It's all very well for you to put your hand in your pocket, Mr. Lenox," she cried, "but I
don't want to hear you trying to undermine Dick's idealism. If he does not have the comfort
of some purpose higher than the daily fight, how can he endure it? Don't persuade him to run
through life on all fours and never look at the stars."

Mr. Lenox looked at her warmly.

"Thank the Lord for you women," he said. "You do not forget that there are stars and sky above
the city smoke. If it were not for you and your kind, I'm afraid most of the world would be
tied to the ground like serfs."

"Oh, I fancy nature has liberated a few of you, and I am glad to believe that Dick is among
the free," she said.

She sat beside Dick, but she turned from him and spoke to Mr. Lenox. When Percival, softened
by her words and the tone of belief in which they were spoken, looked up, he saw, not her eyes,
but, across the table, those of Lena, big and sympathetic. As he gazed into them he saw all
of Madeline's confidence in him, all of Madeline's ideals, but the more spiritual, the more
feminine, because they were unspoken. Lena's eyes were eloquent even if she was silent; internally
she was really resenting Madeline's tone, which seemed to her to assume that Dick was somehow
Miss Elton's particular property. "Perhaps you needn't be so sure, missy," she thought.

After dinner, when the three men found their way to the drawing-room, Mrs. Lenox had started
Madeline on a career of song. She was already in the midst of a curious weird Roumanian thing,
and Norris made straight for the piano. Lena, ethereal in pale blue, was sympathetically listening
to perfection. She had lost her look of incongruity with her surroundings. The dreamy eyes
and the transparent skin found their setting in her filmy gown and the rich soft light. Dick
drew in his breath. He seemed never to get used to her. Naturally he found a seat near her.
She was his protégée.

"Don't you sing, Miss Quincy?" was his inevitable query.

And she replied with inward anguish, "Not at all."

"But I'm sure you do. You look like incarnate song," he persisted. "You're playing modest."

Lena cast down her eyes and said, "I am a very truthful little girl."

"Have you had a good time here?"

Then she looked up with kindling face. "Oh, so good! You can't know how I thank you, Mr. Percival.
I know I owe it to you. I feel as though I were breathing the air I belong in, at last. It's
so different from--but you know all about my life," said Lena brokenly. "And Mrs. Lenox is
so sweet and kind, I just love her!"

"And Miss Elton?"

Lena stiffened and made no reply for an instant.

"Miss Elton is quite as clever as you men, isn't she?" Lena asked, in quite another tone of voice.

"Infinitely more so," said Dick cordially.

"Do you like it?" she asked in a breathless way.

"Why, yes, in Madeline," he answered. "She isn't a bit priggish, you know, but just naturally
interested in everything good. Why? Don't you and she get on?"

Lena gave an uneasy little twist as though she did not enjoy the question, and she sighed.

"Why, frankly, I don't wholly. It's my own stupid little fault, of course. I'm not clever.
She's very charming; but she gets a little tiresome to me."

"Does she?" said Dick ponderingly.

"It's very hateful of me to say such things about your particular friend," said Lena contritely.
"Besides, I don't mean--what do I mean? I never thought it out. But it's so easy to tell you
everything, Mr. Percival. And I think it's rather nice for a girl to be more silly and inconsequential
part of the time." She laughed in a gurgling little fashion.

"I believe it is," said Dick speculatively, as he looked at her. "But Madeline's awfully jolly,
you know. I've had more good times with her than with any other girl I know. No nonsense about
her."

"That's it,--no nonsense," said Lena, and this time her laugh was not so pleasant; and Dick
glanced across at Madeline with a kind of resentment. "It isn't like Madeline to go back on
a fellow that way," he said to himself. "Of course she's had all kinds of advantages over this
poor little thing; but it's small of her not to forget them. I trusted her to make things sweet;
and for the first time she has disappointed me." He looked at Madeline with a distinct feeling
of irritation as she rose from the piano. Mr. Lenox came and absorbed Lena, whom he was teaching
to answer him saucily. Lena enjoyed this process, and it had inspired her to a really clever
device, namely, to say vulgar little things in a whimsical way, as though she knew better all
the time but wanted to be humorous. A good many other people have had the same brilliant idea,
but it was none the less original to Lena, and it saved a lot of trouble and pretense. Norris
and Miss Elton were hobnobbing and laughing at the other end of the room, and Dick followed them.

"Have you been out of town, Dick?" Madeline asked as he came up. "I tried to get you over the
telephone a day or two ago, and they told me you were away."

"Yes." He laughed exultantly as he sat down. "I ran down to the penitentiary at Easton, just
to make sure that I wasn't mistaken in a fact or two."

"What now?" asked Norris.

"I've been told that Barry--the lord of St. Etienne, Madeline--is at last tired of his humble
but powerful place, and intends to show himself the master that he really is by running himself
for our next mayor. Now even this docile city would hardly exalt a man whom it knew to be a
criminal with a record of two years in the pen,--under another name, of course."

"Is it possible that Barry--"

"I've verified my facts. There is only one man in the city besides myself that knows this,
and he's Barry's closest friend. There'll be a jolly old sensation in the bunch, when I spring
my mine."

"If nobody knows it, how did you happen to find out?" asked Madeline impulsively.

There was just a moment's silence, and in that instant Norris had a flash of memory. He seemed
to see Dick eying a letter addressed to William Barry, Esquire. Even while he remembered, he
hated himself for daring to suspect that Dick would be capable of anything really shabby or
dishonorable. Yet he did suspect--nay, more--he was sure; and the pause, the look of innocent
inquiry on Madeline's face grew intolerable. If Dick would say nothing, he, Norris, must.

"We newspaper men," he rushed in gaily, "get hold of a vast amount of information that people
flatter themselves is secret."

Percival looked at him and grinned. The girl turned slowly from her amused survey of Dick to
study Ellery's face, which showed his discomfort in its flush. If a girl so gentle could feel
scorn, Ellery would have thought he detected a touch of it. Certainly there was a hint of grieved
surprise as she spoke, with her eyes still fixed on Norris.

"I'm very sorry, Dick," she said humbly. "I didn't mean to be prying. I've grown so used to
asking you about everything. Mr. Norris ought to get a better mask."

She laughed lightly, but Ellery's face grew hotter. He wondered if she suspected him of some
underhand trickery, and Dick realized it, yet kept amused silence. For an instant he hated
Dick, and felt a wild impulse to defend himself; but second thoughts came quickly. She loved
Dick and was therefore slow to impute evil to him. Dick loved her, and if he had for once played
the petty knave, it was the place of a friend to protect her against that knowledge. That had
been the instinctive reason for Norris' words, and he was not going back on them now. Yet Ellery's
brain whirled to think how swiftly and by what simple means he might have toppled her slowly-ripening
friendship into the mire. Ellery's imagination piled superlatives on every act and expression
of his lady. If she looked light disapproval, it was worse than another's scorn. And Dick--for
whom he had thrown away the thing he most valued in the world--Dick exclaimed gaily:

"Don't be suspicious, Madeline. Are all secrets disgraceful? Can't you trust your old friends?"

"Of course I'm not suspicious," she answered indignantly. "I only mean to beg your pardon,
Dick, and I assure you again that I'm not curious, even. I asked this question as I have asked
a thousand others, and that would have been the end of it----except for Mr. Norris' face."

She smiled as she turned away, and Dick lifted his eyebrows and shrugged his shoulders as much
as to say, "What difference does it make, anyway? What difference!" Dick didn't care whether
she despised Ellery or not--he didn't care enough to speak an honorable word of explanation.

Mrs. Lenox came up crying, "Come, my triple alliance, Frank has carried Miss Quincy off to
the billiard-room to give her a lesson. Let us go, too, to see that they do not get into mischief."

Dick hurried away to usurp Mr. Lenox's place, Madeline tucked her arm through that of Mrs.
Lenox, and Norris was left to follow in outer darkness.

When bedtime came, Norris detained Percival.

"Come out for a smoke and a turn," he said. "The night is frosty, and you'll sleep all the
better for a sniff of fresh air."

"What are you so glum about?" he asked, as Dick tramped in silence.

He was moody and enraged himself, but too proud to let his anger be seen.

"Not mad, most noble Norris, only thinking."

"Unfold your thoughts."

"I was thinking about Madeline," answered Dick, and Norris' heart thumped, for he too was thinking
about Madeline. "I wonder if the kind of training that she and all girls of her class get is
the thing, after all. I'm not talking about knowledge, you understand. I'm not such a cad as
to grudge a girl the best there is in the world. But there's something else. It's the electric
feminine, I suppose, that makes them the powers behind every throne. Fate is always represented
in petticoats, you know. It sometimes seems as though the better-trained girls had all that
side of them kept out of sight and polished into nothingness. Why are they taught to ignore
the biggest power that's in them? Why, even that untrained little Miss Quincy is vivid with
some sex-fascination that the more fortunate girls do not often have."

"Oh, she is only a colored light. The sunlight has all other colors latent in itself. How do
you dare to make any comparison between Miss Quincy and your lovely Miss Elton?"

"Great Scott! Don't say 'my Miss Elton'!" Dick exclaimed. "Madeline doesn't belong to me."
And he added politely, "Worse luck! She and I have always been like brother and sister. That's
all there is to it."

"Are you sure?" demanded Ellery, with hot thrusts of mingled anguish and exultation stabbing
through his bosom.

"Sure!" said Dick equably. "Why, even if I loved her, my dear fellow, I should know, from her
unruffled serenity, that there was no hope for me. But Madeline isn't a very emotional creature,
Ellery. She has too much brains for that,--a girl to cheer but not inebriate."

"I don't want a girl to make me drunk," ejaculated Norris.

"Well, I do," rejoined Dick.

"And though Miss Elton's emotions do not lie on the surface, I'll warrant they are there,"
Ellery went on as though letting off pent-up steam. "They are like her voice--like all her
motions--neither loud nor faint, but exquisitely modulated. She seems to me like the embodiment
of innocence,--not the innocence of ignorance, but the untaintedness of a mind that goes through
the world selecting the best, as the bee takes honey and leaves the rest. There's no subject,
so far as I can see, on which she is afraid to think; but I can not imagine that any subject
would leave a deposit of mire in her mind."

"Gee whizz!" scoffed Dick. "How fluent your year of journalism has made you! What a great thing
it is to be a serious-minded young man with eye-glasses, engaged, while yet in youth, in molding
public opinion through the mighty agent of the press! And Madeline is another of the same kind."

"I wish I were of her kind," said Ellery stiffly. "You may poke fun at me as much as you like,
Dick, but it's beneath you to jeer at her."

"You old duffer, aren't you two the best friends I have in the world? I like the clear and
frosty mountain peaks."

"How did you find out about Barry?" Ellery asked abruptly.

"I do not have to tell you any more than Madeline." Seeing the grim look on Norris' face, Dick
went on, "Let's go in and to bed. We seem to rub each other the wrong way to-night. If we don't
separate soon we shall be having a French duel."

CHAPTER XII

AN ENGAGEMENT

The gates of the delectable world, it seemed to Lena, opened very slowly, and the mild fragrance
and warmth that dribbled out to her through their narrow crack intensified her outer dreariness.
Once in a while Mrs. Lenox or Miss Elton did her some little kindness. Occasionally Mr. Percival
came to see her, but her shame of her mother and her home made these visits a doubtful pleasure.
The sordid monotony of her work oppressed her every morning and depressed her every night.
The little money that she earned fell like a snow-flake into the yawning furnace of her desires.
Bitter is the fate of her to whom the goods of this world are the final good, and to whom those
goods are denied.

There came a night when a certain great lady gave a dance, and Lena was deputed by the feminine
head of the staff of the Star to report these doings of society. At first the chance looked
to her delightful. She was to have a peep into the world of charm which was her dream and her
ambition. She walked through the wide empty rooms with their soft lights and masses of flowers.
She surveyed the dining-room, a wilderness of candles, orchids and maiden-hairs. She felt her
feet sink luxuriously into the rugs, oh, so different from the threadbare ingrain carpet at
home! She peeped into the ball-room, smilax-draped and glowing as if eager to welcome the guests
to come. Through it all she carried a prim air, making businesslike notes on her little pad;
but beneath her very demure exterior raged a storm of rebellion that these things should be
and not be for her. The world was one huge sour grape; and yet she must smile as though it
tasted sweet. There were blurs in her eyes as she stumbled up the back stairs, whither her
way was pointed, that she might stand in a corner of the dressing-room where the now fast-arriving
ladies were laying off their wraps. She swallowed a lump in her throat and winked hard in the
attempt to forget or ignore the careless looks thrown at her by these ladies, as the maids
removed the long cloaks made more for splendor than for warmth, or drew up the gloves on bare
arms less lovely than her own. Many of the women looked twice at her, and she thought, and
resented the fact, that they were surprised to see so much beauty. She could not be impersonal
like the other reporters,--sensible girls, taking all this as a part of the day's work, and
whispering names to one another, which Lena, too, must catch and treasure for her reportorial
harvest. She must glance with swift inclusiveness at the more striking gowns, that later she
may serve them up in the technical slapdash of the social column.

An hour of it left her faint and sick, not with cynical scorn of the spectacle, but with longing
and self-pity. The crowd in the dressing-room was thinning now, but, whether she had finished
her duty or not, she must escape. She could endure it no longer. Again she made her way down
the narrow non-angelic stairs and out at a little side door. The night air was sweet and cold.
She paused for a moment under the light of the porte-cochère to watch the string of carriages
and the swirl of silk and laces that passed through the opening door, to listen to gusts of
music that came to an abrupt end as the outside door shut on her.

Suddenly a figure loomed beside her, and she look up to see Dick Percival, straight and big,
with the electric light gleaming on his white shirt-front, where his overcoat fell back. There
was an unpleasant sternness in his deeply-shadowed eyes.

"Miss Quincy!" he exclaimed. "What are you doing here!"

"I was sent to report it," said Lena weakly. "I'm going home now."

"Going home alone? Nearly midnight?"

"What else can I do? It's what the other girls--reporters, I mean--have to do."

"I shall walk home with you," said Dick sharply, and he drew her aside into the shadow, as
though ashamed of being seen, and piloted her in silence to the sidewalk. Lena gave a little
sob as he drew her arm through his, and still they walked on until the lights of the great
house grew dim in the distance and only the quiet of the city streets by night enveloped them.

"Ought you not to go back now? You'll lose all the pleasure," said Lena timidly.

"Are you doing much of this kind of thing?" Dick demanded.

"This is the first time."

"I hope it will be the last," he answered glumly.

"So do I--I don't like it," whispered Lena.

"I--I can't endure it--Lena!" Lena started as she heard her name. "Lena, come over here into
the park for just a moment. I want to talk to you."

"I can't. It's awfully cold, and--" said Lena, but she followed his lead as she remonstrated.

"And you have on a wretched little thin coat. Why aren't you decently dressed?"

"I haven't anything." Lena spoke under her breath. Dick stamped his foot as a substitute for
a curse, whipped off his heavy great-coat, wrapped her in it, and pushed her down on to a bench.

"Lena," he said, standing squarely in front of her, "I know I've no right to hope for anything--no
right to speak, even, when you know me so little; but, by Heaven, I can't endure to see you
grinding out your life in this way, when there's even a chance that you will let me prevent
it. You flower of a girl, you! Oh, Lena, I love you--I love you!"

He caught a small white hand that held together the heavy coat, and kissed it in a kind of
frenzy, while Lena, rigid with desire to be quite sure what this signified, peered stolidly
at him from over the big collar. She was too wise in her generation to leap to conclusions
about the ultimate meaning of Dick's passion. She would not unbottle any emotion until she knew.

"Lena, if you could see how I love you, you'd trust me, I think, even with yourself. If you
will be my wife--"

Something in Lena seemed to break, and she gave a gasp of relief and gratitude that was almost
prayer and approached love. Then she buried her face in her hands and sobbed aloud, as Dick
put both arms around her and drew her head to his shoulder.

"Lena, can you--do you love me a little?" he whispered, as if in awe.

"Oh, Mr. Percival," said Lena, "I do! How could I help it? But I could not dream of your loving
poor little insignificant me."

"And how could I help it?" he said, mocking her. "Little, you may be, but this part is bigger
than the whole world. You belong to me now, and I won't have you depreciate yourself."

"Oh, Mr. Percival, is it true?"

"Suppose you say 'Dick', and thank God that it is."

"Dick, Dick, Dick--it is," said Lena very softly, and she frankly put her arms around his neck,
and her soft lips to his cold cheek, so that he lost himself in an ecstasy of delight and wonder.

So they sat in the doubtful shadow of a leafless maple, on a hard park bench, on a chilly November
night, and though Dick was half frozen they were both more than happy. And they talked, in
lovers' fashion, over the great fact, and how it all happened.

The mellow chimes of the city hall began to strike twelve--a most persistent hour, and Lena
started into consciousness.

"Dick, I must go home," she said. "None of those girls, the nice girls, Miss Elton or any one
like that, would do such an improper thing, would they?"

"I should think not," said Dick. "I wouldn't ask them to."

"And I wouldn't allow them," laughed Lena. "Now come, like a dear boy, and walk home with me."

"There are so many more things that I want to say," remonstrated Dick. "Stop a moment under
this light and let me see your eyes, Lena. You'll have to look up. I want to talk plain business
to you. First, you'll give up this reporting folly, won't you?"

"To-morrow," said Lena joyously.

"What an admirably obedient wife you are going to make! But I'm glad you hate it. If ever you
feel a mad desire to take it up again, we'll go into the library together and write up Godey's
Lady's Book. I want your life to be sweet and sheltered and filled with good things now."

"Oh, Dick, to think of that kind of a life coming to me!"

"It ought to have come to you long ago. It was bound to come, because it belongs to you. But
things being as they are, you must give yourself into my keeping as soon as possible, sweetheart.
There's no reason why we shouldn't be married at once, or nearly so, is there, dear?"

Here Lena hesitated, a little in doubt whether she ought to show maiden reluctance, and her
lover went on with his argument.

"You are so alone, dear. Don't let any foolish hesitation prolong this bad time of yours."

"What about my mother?" demanded Lena, with a sudden descent to the region of hard facts.

"Do you want her to live with us?" Dick asked with a gulp.

"No, I don't!" Lena answered so sharply that Dick started in surprise, and she gathered herself
together.

"It would take a long time for me to explain things to you," she went on in gentler accents.
"But, Dick, mother and I are not very happy together. I'll tell you all about it some time.
Perhaps she would be just as contented to live somewhere else."

"Very well," said Dick with a sense of relief. "We must make her comfortable, of course." In
reality nobody else's comfort made a rap's difference just then. "I dare say we can find some
jolly little apartment and somebody to take care of her."

"Hire somebody for her to find fault with," said Lena, with a return of acid. "What about your
mother?"

"Oh, I couldn't let mother live anywhere but in the dear old home. It's too big and lonely
for her by herself, so we must share it with her. And no other place would ever have the flavor
of home, either to her or to me."

Lena stopped short in her progress.

"Does the house belong to you or to her?"

"Technically to me, I believe--not that it makes the slightest difference, dear."

"Then I should be mistress of it, not she?"

"I'm sure she'd be only too glad to turn the housekeeping cares over to your pretty little
hands," said Dick, smiling, but a little uneasily. "She's a good deal of an invalid, you know.
But there's plenty of time to think of all these details. I suppose you've had to worry about
the little things until it's become a habit," he added in a kind of apology to himself.

"I've been a bond-slave so long," said Lena, "that I'd like to feel perfectly free and mistress
of everything around me." She straightened her back and squared her soft shoulders.

"So you shall be!" answered Dick happily. "Even of your husband."

"Oh, that, of course," said Lena with an enchanting pout. "Now here we are, and it's very late.
You must go. Good night."

"Good night," said Dick. "I suppose I must not keep you. To think I have the unbelievable good
fortune to kiss you good night, sweetheart."

Mrs. Quincy turned over in the lumpy bed which she and her daughter shared and said, with a
querulousness undiminished by her sleepiness, "You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Lena Quincy,
gallivanting around at this hour of night. It ain't decent. But there!"

"I guess I know my business," Lena snapped.

She turned out the gas to undress in the dark rather than encourage her mother's conversation.
She needed to think. An awful problem had just presented itself. How was she to get a trousseau?

It was in another mood that Dick Percival walked home. Whenever anything very great and wonderful
happens to us, we are apt to bow our heads and cry, "What am I, that this should be given to
me?" Doubtless he is the noblest man who most often feels this exultant humility. This was
Dick's hour on the mountain. The depth of his own tenderness, the deliciousness of his passion
swept over him like a revelation, as he asked himself in wonder how it could be that this love
had sprung up at once, like Aphrodite from the waves, where no one could have suspected such
a marvel. He himself had been without realization of how his passing interest had deepened
its roots until now they fed on every part of him. Love had startled him like a stroke of lightning
out of a clear sky, but it was evident that it was no light that flashed out and then disappeared.
It had come to stay.

Then came self-reproach. He remembered with hot cheeks that he had actually joked with Ellery
about her in early days, and let himself be bantered in return--cad that he was, incapable
of appreciating at first sight the woman he was to love. He had thought her an exquisite trifle,
almost too illusive to be taken seriously. Now that very illusiveness was the thing that gripped
him closest, like poetry and music and all the finer elements of life, the most impossible
to explain, the most supreme in their dominion. Beauty meant all this. He found himself repeating,
"Beauty is truth. Truth beauty. That is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know." And
Lena was beautiful. How beautiful! He trembled in flesh and spirit at the vision of her face
turned up to him out of the black November darkness, at the memory of the fine texture of her
cheeks and lips.

He did not stop to ask himself whether he and Keats were agreed in their definition of beauty.
Moreover, poor Keats never had the delight of anything so pink and golden and blue-eyed as
Lena Quincy.

CHAPTER XIII

AN AWAKENING

A little scrawl of a note, delivered just after breakfast at Mr. Elton's door, brought Madeline
to visit Mrs. Percival, who, like her mother, seemed to be in continual need of her.

She found that lady lying in her favorite chair in the library--the chair that had been her
refuge in the days of her early widowhood, that had comfortably housed her when books carried
her away from her own world of sorrows and problems into the world of illusions, the chair
in which she had dreamed of the great things that were to come into a younger life, not her
own, and yet deeply her own,--her son's.

Now she lay back in it with clasped hands, thinner than usual and with eyes sadder. Madeline
came in like a young Hebe, glowing with health and vigor, and infinitely tender toward fragility.

"You are ill, dear mother Percival," cried the girl, dropping to her knees and slipping an
arm behind her friend's back in an unconscious attitude of protection.

Mrs. Percival's fingers followed the soft curve that the girl's hair made around her forehead.

"No, dear," she said slowly, "but I had something to tell you. I wanted to speak to you myself,
before any one else had the chance."

"Please tell me quickly."

"So many of my dearest hopes have come to nothing!" Mrs. Percival went on, with a little bitterness
that Madeline thought unlike her. "Each blow, as it falls, seems the hardest to bear. I've
tried to accept whatever happens, graciously. It isn't always easy, Madeline, dear."

"Yes?" said Madeline.

"Dick--"

"Is anything the matter with Dick?" Madeline rose with a little cry.

"Dick does not think so," his mother answered. "My child, you have seen something of this little
Miss Quincy?"

Madeline's eyes dropped for the tenth of a second and a heaviness took possession of her body;
then she lifted her head bravely.

"Yes," she answered, "I know Miss Quincy--quite the most beautiful girl I have ever seen."

"Very beautiful," echoed Mrs. Percival. "So I too thought, the only time I ever saw her. Well,
Madeline, what I have to tell you is that Dick is to marry her."

The girl saw that the older woman's hands were trembling, and she laid her own warm young palms
over the cold old ones.

"I hope Dick will be very happy," she said softly. "I--I'm not a bit surprised. We ought to
have seen that it was coming. And Dick loves her!"

And she laid her cheek against Mrs. Percival's, but the other pushed her away and stared into
the eyes so near her own.

"And you can take it so quietly?" she asked. "Forgive me, dear, if for once I break down the
barriers of reserve. I love you so much, let me be frank. Surely you know what I hoped, what
I thought."

"You thought Dick and I loved each other," Madeline said bravely.

"I hoped so. Heaven knows I hoped so."

"We are too good friends for that, dear Mrs. Percival. One needs a little something unexplored
and unexpected in a lover; don't you think so? Dick and I knew each other in kilts and pig-tails."

"Well, it seems I am as much of an old fool as Dick is a young one," Mrs. Percival said bitterly.
"I'm good for nothing but to lie here and comfort myself with dreams."

"You're an old dear, and Dick is a young one," Madeline tried to laugh. "And Miss Quincy is
exquisite--charming."

"An old fool," repeated Mrs. Percival. "Now listen, sweetheart! If Dick marries this girl,
I have no intention of forgetting that he is my son, and that she is his wife. I shall do all
I can to help her to be worthy of him; but before that happens, I am going to have the satisfaction
of speaking to just one person in the world--you--exactly what I think about it. From what
Mrs. Lenox told me, after her visit in the country, and from what I saw myself, I think she
is a vulgar little image overlaid with tinsel."

"Oh, don't!" Madeline cried. "You and I do not really know her, but we can trust Dick. He's
too fine himself to be attracted by anything but fineness. She must have character to have
made the fight she has with fate."

"Attracted by character! Pins and figs! My son is just like all the others, I am finding. He's
attracted by pink flesh. And as for heart and soul--all the women that Dick has known well
have been women of refinement. He takes their purity and nobility for granted, as a part of
womanhood. He thinks he's marrying you and me. His reason has nothing to do with it."

For the moment Madeline had no answer, and Mrs. Percival went on:

"It's foolish to care what people say about your tragedies. Oh, you needn't shake your head.
This is a tragedy, Madeline. And I do care about the world. I hate to think of the whispering
and gossiping because my son--my son--has fallen a victim to a cheap adventuress."

"Nonsense," Madeline broke out. "Miss Quincy isn't an outcast, just because she has had the
world's cold shoulder. And people aren't so silly as to let such external things prejudice them."

"Don't mistake me, dearie. I'm not taking exception to the girl because she works. We're all--those
of us that are good for much--the mothers and wives and daughters of men who work, and we share
in their labor. I could admire and love a real worker, but this butterfly creature affects
me like a parasite--a woman who wants to get and not to give. It's just because I feel that
she isn't a real worker that I am afraid of her."

"And that, even if it is true, may be only the result of sordid surroundings." Madeline's heart
misgave her, for she had learned to respect Mrs. Percival's judgments. "She'll blossom out
and add womanliness to beauty in such an atmosphere as you and Dick will give her."

"Spontaneous generation will not do everything. You must have the germ of a heart before you
can develop the whole thing. Do you think you can really change a girl who has lived for twenty
years in the wrong attitude?"

"You are judging cruelly," Madeline cried. "Of course every one has the germs of good."

"And did it ever occur to you that the kind of love that Dick will give his wife may be too
good--so far above a coarse-grained woman that it will not touch her comprehension? A lower
grade of man might bring her out better."

"It's impossible to think of so exquisite a creature being coarse-grained," Madeline exclaimed.
"I, for one, am going to believe in her, and in a year, with you and Dick and mother and Mrs.
Lenox and myself all backing her, you'll be proud of her loveliness and tact. I shall be only
Cinderella's ugly sister. But you must not ever quite forget me, Mrs. Percival." And Madeline
laughed most cheerfully.

Mrs. Percival smiled in return. "Well, I have had my explosion. It's extraordinary what a relief
it is, once in a while. I'm not often so guilty, am I, Madeline? After all, I've told you my
fears rather than my convictions. The situation does not seem so bad, now that I have said
even more than I think. Hereafter I shall find it easy to hold my tongue."

"And you will try to like her?" Madeline asked anxiously.

"Of course, my dear. I shall try harder than any one else. I am going in state to pay her a
motherly call this very afternoon, feeling all the time like a plated volcano." Mrs. Percival
leaned back with a small moue, then sat up again. "There's my boy's latch-key in the lock now,"
she said.

Dick halted at the door when he saw the two and knew that they must have been talking of him.
He had something of an air of defiance thickly overlaid with innocence; but Madeline went to
meet him with hands outstretched.

"Dick," she exclaimed, "I congratulate you with all my heart. She's the prettiest creature
in the world."

Dick, manlike, regarded this as the highest possible tribute to his beloved and glowed in return.
His defiance dropped like a shell and he shook Madeline's hands with enthusiasm.

"You're a trump," he said. "I shall not forget how good you have been to her; and I hope you
two will always be friends."

"I should think so! I should like to see your trying to prevent us, Dick," said Madeline saucily.
"And your mother is going to love her, too, when--"

"When we are married," Dick answered with silly masculine self-consciousness.

"And that is to be soon!"

"As soon as I can manage it. I can't bear to have Lena living as she does now; and there's
no reason why we shouldn't cut it short."

"No reason at all. I don't wonder you feel so. Good-by, both of you."

Dick saw her to the door and Madeline walked out with her usual deliberate serenity.

She found her way home with bottled-up emotions, as a hurt child holds in the cry until he
gets to the spot where mother's breast waits for the inarticulate sobs. Everything she had
done and said seemed to have been the act of some far-away self, that had hardly any connection
with the real Madeline. The earth danced around her and she was incapable of real thought.
And yet the well-trained, automatic body that was her outer shell conducted itself with reason.
It even stopped in the living-room to kiss her mother; it apparently skimmed a new copy of
Life; it convoyed her slowly up stairs to her own room, where it shut and locked her door.
But here her real self resumed control, as she threw herself into an easy chair by the window
and stared out at the desolation of December where dead leaves went whirling in elfin eddying
clouds.

For a few moments she let the solar system rock and reel around her, and watched everything
she had thought stable go up in smoke. Then upon the world, swirling and pounding meaninglessly,
there came an intense quiet. She knew that the outer world was as serene as ever; but a great
throbbing pain within showed her that it was only her own little atom of self that was revolutionized.
Nature was not upset. There was still order for her to hold fast to. For the first time she
began to analyze herself and her emotions.

She could not say that she had planned her future, but it had seemed so natural and inevitable
that she had accepted it without planning, almost without thought. Dick and she had belonged
to each other ever since they could remember. At ten they had been outspoken lovers, and ever
since there had been that intimate comradeship that seemed to her to imply the unspoken relation,
behind, above, below. All this she had taken for granted, like mother-love and her own dawning
womanhood. And now Dick, the chief corner-stone of her edifice, was torn away, and the whole
airy structure toppled and dissolved.

"I've been assuming all this," she said to herself, "and marriage isn't a thing to take for
granted. Shouldn't I have resented it if Dick had appropriated me as though I belonged to him
and had lost my freedom of choice? I've been unfair to him. And now--if I should never marry--there
are surely plenty of good things left in the world. But are there?"

Madeline had always been characterized by those who knew her as lovely and placid. And why
not? What else should life draw out of a girl of normal nature, surrounded by protecting love,
given the good things of life as by right, shielded from the knowledge of evil, never facing
a problem more exciting than those of Euclid. But now something began to stir in the unknown
depths of her nature. For the first time in her life she had had a blow. There rose before
her a vision of endless maidenhood. She saw herself as she had seen other women--uninteresting
women, she had thought them. Now they seemed to her like tragedies--women whose lives did not
count, either to themselves or to the world, middle-aged, somber, unrelated. To be childless,
to eat and dress and wear the semblance of womanhood, even to play a little part in society,
and yet to be but half a woman! To be no link in the generations! This was unendurable. The
first demand of every soul is for life, and yet life is life only when it is part of the future.
To live oneself one must live in others. All the mother hidden in the depths of her rose and
cried out against any destiny that shut her out from the great stream of humanity.

"I shall be a side-eddy in the current. I shall grow stagnant and slimy and lead nowhere. And
the rushing waters will go leaping and laughing past."

She got up and moved restlessly up and down the room. She looked again out of the window at
the sober end of the winter day. In the tree branches that clattered outside, her eyes fell
on an empty nest.

"And am I to be such a thing?" she said. "Surely all the world must bow down in pity for the
solitary woman." Some half-forgotten lines came back to her:

    "Mine ear is full of the rocking of cradles.
    For a single cradle, saith Nature, I would give every one of my graves."

By her little practice piano her eyes fell on the pages of Schubert's unfinished symphony.

"Unfinished!" she said. "And yet even there is the phrase that comes and comes again, sweeter
and more full of meaning in every renewed variety. So I must have love to play through my life,
or else it will be nothing but a medley. It must be my music's theme; even if the symphony
is unfinished. Are there women who can do without it, who can take a life alone and make it
sweet and satisfying? Not I, oh God, not I! I'm no exceptional creature. I'm just a plain woman.
And if life doesn't give me wifehood and motherhood, it gives me nothing. I wonder if all women
feel this way. This pretty little Lena,--is she bursting with primal need of giving and taking?
At any rate she has put something in Dick's face that was never there before--that I'd give
my soul to see in a man's face when he looks at me."

Hitherto the world had ambled along in an amiable way; and now it suddenly turned and delivered
a blow in the face. Every one is destined to receive such blows, some get little else. But
the test comes in the way they are received. You may use belladonna as a poison, or you may
use it to help the blind to see. So when pain comes, you may take it to your bosom and suckle
it till it becomes a fine healthy child, too heavy for you to carry; or cast out the changeling
and leave it on the doorstep to die. It matters little how much anguish skulks about the outside
of life, so long as it finds no lodgment in the sacred shrines of the heart. Madeline met her
first grief and fought it off; and, even while she thought it had given her a mortal wound,
came the revelation of the powerlessness of the poor thing. She put her arms down on the window-sill
to cry deliberately, but something dried her tears.

"I couldn't put that look in Dick's face, but could he put it in mine? Was this taking of things
for granted the best love of which I am capable? I've found out to-day that there are all kinds
of things in me that I have never dreamed of before, and passion is one of them, and rebellion.
Great heavens! I might have married him and been serene and never found things out."

She seemed to be looking at a new Madeline; and while she stared, startled, this self grew
greater and stronger.

"This is not the end of life; it is the beginning," she whispered. "I've been looking down
the wrong road. Dick has no such power over me as to consign me to misery everlasting. I am
mistress of my own fate. I have not handed it over to him. Happiness is not a thing to get.
It is a state of mind to live in. It is my own affair, not that of others." She rested her
chin in her hands and fell into a girl's day-dream, in which the nightmare was forgotten.

Twilight fell at last, and faint sounds came up to her to remind her that down stairs there
were well-beloved people who did not know and should never know of her little vigil. Her father
must be coming home. It was time for her to put on her armor and go down. Armor is one of the
necessities of life. If we can't wear it in steel plates on the outside, we must mask the face
with impenetrability and the manner with pretense. Never let the heart be vulnerable. Yet,
try as we may, something of our weakness is laid bare. Hereafter Miss Elton might be serene,
but would never again be placid.

But now she was quite herself.

Down stairs her father read the paper and her mother sat near the big table, hem-stitching.
For them everything was settled, and settled satisfactorily. They knew whom they were going
to marry, and whether love was to be a success, and where they were going to live, and what
they were going to do. Henceforth, for them the game meant only pleasantly plodding onward
along paths already marked out. Just a wholesome common marriage, planted with the seed of
love and watered with small self-sacrifices. How could they possibly remember the restlessness
of youth, to whom all these things are hidden in the mists of the future, and who is longing
for everything and sure of nothing?

Madeline sat down at the piano and her hands fell inevitably into phrasing the "unfinished
symphony." She became aware that her mother laid down the stitching and Mr. Elton's evening
paper ceased to crackle. As she stopped her father stood behind her. He bent and kissed the
little parting in her hair.

"Your music grows sweeter and richer day by day, little girl," he said. "I suppose as more
comes into your life you have more to give. I'm glad that you give it out to us old folks at home."

Madeline wheeled about and sprang to her feet.

"Ah," she exclaimed, "if you have finished with your stupid old paper, I'll give you a real
piece of news. It's a 'scoop' too, for no reporter has got hold of it yet. Dick Percival is
engaged to little Miss Quincy."

Both father and mother stared at her in silence. She stood a little behind the chandelier,
where the light shone full on her face, and in neither mouth nor eyes could they see the trace
of shadow. On the contrary, there was a radiant loveliness about her that astonished those
that loved her best.

Then Mr. Norris was announced.

Now when Miss Elton had her first peep into her soul, and so stirred up the possibilities in
her nature, she also awoke to new insight into what was going on behind other people's eyes.
The day when she could look a young man squarely in the face and say to him whatever she thought
had passed. The period of unconscious girlhood, much prolonged in her case, came to an end.
Since, in this world, shadow goes with sunshine, so demons tag after angels; and with the dawn
of her sweeter womanhood, Madeline developed a new spirit of contrariety and coquetry that
astonished no one so much as herself.

When Mr. Norris came in, his apologetic glance told her at once that she had hardly spoken
to him since she had turned up her straight little high-bred nose and informed him and Dick
that she despised their underhand ways; told her, also, what had not dawned on her before,
that here was an abject creature, and that it was the province of womanhood to batter and buffet
him who is down, perhaps in secret fear of that day when outraged manhood will rise and claim
a tyranny of its own.

So she put out her hand with that stiffness that holds at arm's length and said:

"Oh, how dy' do, Mr. Norris," just as though they had never sailed together in dual solitude,
and she allowed her lip to curl in evidence of her disapproval of the much warmer greeting
of her elders.

She sat down and eyed and tapped a small bronze slipper, while she ignored the reproachful
glances of her mother at her rank desertion of conversational duties. Her father hardly noticed
it. He himself so liked young men that he frequently forgot that his daughter and not himself
might be the object of their quest. So he plunged cheerfully into an animated discussion of
the new tide in civic politics, while Norris dully and conscientiously tried to bear up his end.

Ellery's eyes, however, as well as the thoughts behind those superficial thoughts that guided
his words, were absorbed in the other side of the room, where Miss Elton canvassed with her
mother the merits of various embroidery silks. She was lovelier than ever. He had thought her
perfect before, but to-night she had added a sheen to perfection and made herself entrancing,
both reposeful and vivid. He wondered if she had heard of Dick's engagement and if her color
covered a pale heart.

Suddenly she flung up her head impatiently, and came behind her father's chair to clap a small
hand over his mouth in the middle of a sentence of which Norris had entirely lost track.

"Father, father," she cried, "do you think Mr. Norris wants to come here and maunder over stupid
politics all the evening, after he has been writing stupid editorials about them all day? They
are stupid--I've read some of them." She smiled at the young man. "Wouldn't you both infinitely
rather hear me sing?"

Mr. Elton kissed the offending hand before he put it gently down.

"I know I should."

Norris sprang up.

"May I turn your music?" he asked eagerly, but she shook her head as she moved away.

"There isn't going to be any music to turn."

She began to sing the same little Roumanian song that he remembered on their last evening in
the Lenox house, and his spirits, lifted for a moment by her smile, went down again.

    "Into the mist I gazed and fear came on me,
    Then said the mist, 'I weep for the lost sun.'"

She sang passionately and he could have cried aloud. It was true then that she was grieving
for Dick.

"The music is uncanny, isn't it?" she said, as she ended and found him near her. "How does
it make you feel?"

"If I should find an image for my feelings just at present, you would scorn me for my base
material thoughts."

"Find it," she commanded.

"I think I feel like a mince-pie--a maddening jumble of things delicious and indigestible."

She laughed and grew friendly. This, he thought, is, after all, her permanent mood; but before
he could take advantage of it another caller, Mr. Early, appeared; and again she basely deserted
Norris to the mercies of her father and mother, and devoted herself to the evident beatification
of the apostle of the new in art.

CHAPTER XIV

THE RETURN OF RAM JUNA

One gloomy evening in January Mr. Early sat alone. He had so many tentacles spread out through
the world of men and women that solitude was unusual to him. Indeed it had often occurred to
him, as an example of the fallacy of ancient sayings, that there was nothing in that old epigram
about the loneliness of the great. The higher he had risen in the scale of greatness the more
insistently and persistently had the world invaded his life, until even his appreciation of
solitude had atrophied.

This particular day had been a hard one. The problems of glass and rugs were unusually complicated,
and the interruptions to continuous thought more numerous than usual. Moreover, without warning,
like a meteor of magnificent proportions, Swami Ram Juna, with many paraphernalia of travel,
had suddenly reappeared to ask for that once-proffered hospitality. Not without state and courtesy
could such a being be welcomed; and courtesy takes time.

Finally, to discuss the matter of the outer cover for the next issue of The Aspirant, a henchman
invaded his privacy. Sebastian looked over a pile of designs, and chose a flat but lurid young
woman, in a sphinx-like attitude against a background of purple trees. Then came the more difficult
question of an aphorism to be printed on the table against which the lurid young woman leaned.
It was the habit of The Aspirant to convey, even on its outside, wisdom to the world, and the
thinking up of smart young aphorisms is not always an easy task. Mr. Early at length evolved:
"It has been said of old: 'Know thyself.' I say unto thee, 'Forget thyself. Know thy brother.'"

"That sounds fairly well," said Mr. Early wearily, and he dismissed the henchman and settled
himself in a particularly benevolent arm-chair, in front of a cheerfully-roaring fire. The
place was a remote room, decorated not for public inspection but for comfort. Mr. Early was
tired. A certain new question had been waiting in the antechambers of his mind, and to-night
he determined to give it leisurely attention; for of late it had several times been borne in
him that he was getting along in years and that if he did not intend to die a bachelor, it
behooved him to move swiftly. The thought had been quickened into livelier vitality when, at
a dinner a few nights before, he had watched the face and studied the figure of Miss Madeline
Elton.

She was certainly a rare creature. There was a verve, a magnetic quality to her, that he hardly
remembered before. Her beauty, her nobility, her purity he felt to be the artistic attributes
of womanhood. No, he not only admired them, they charmed him.

"Yes," said Mr. Early. "By Jove, if she'd lift her little finger at me I believe I'd make a
fool of myself over her! And why shouldn't I? Why shouldn't I let myself go? I've got everything
else now. A woman of her bigness likes a man who can do things and who controls other men.
By Heaven, I believe we were made for each other!"

Mr. Early grew so excited by the strength of his new passion that he sprang to his feet and
walked up and down to luxuriate in the idea.

Proportionately great was his annoyance when a knock invaded his self-communion, and his man's
face appeared at the door to tell him that Mr. Murdock would like to speak with him. While
he was yet opening his mouth to anathematize Mr. Murdock, that gentleman entered, familiar
and cheerful.

The man who came in was, in his way, a force almost as great and as worthy of regard as Mr.
Sebastian Early himself--in fact no less a personage than the power behind the throne of that
uncrowned king, William Barry. Though he did not sit on Olympian heights and play with the
thunderbolts of jobs and contracts, as Barry did, yet he had an occasional way of interfering
in the game, just as in Greek legend Fate loomed large behind the back of Zeus.

Mr. James Murdock was a business genius who dipped into politics, not for office nor yet for
glory, but only for gain. Originally a partner of Mr. Early's, when, just as some one else
invented a better hook-and-eye, their business was sold out, Murdock let his many-sidedness
run riot in a dozen directions. While Mr. Early's abilities led him to "get all there was in
it" out of the public on its imaginative side, Murdock worked out his fortune in more practical
necessities. St. Etienne was a western city, full of growth and therefore full of needs. There
were miles and miles of asphalt to be laid; there were wooden sidewalks crying out to be replaced
by stone; there were lighting and watering and park-making; and it was astonishing in how many
companies, doing these things, Mr. Murdock had a share, and how frequently his companies secured
the contracts for doing them. When rival contractors attempted these public works, there were
apt to be strikes and complications which seldom occurred when Murdock had the job. Then all
went smoothly and merrily. And this shows how friendship rules the world. For Murdock was the
friend of Barry; and Barry was the friend of the strike-ordering walking-delegates. If these
three elements, representing the city fathers, the contractors and the laborers, were all satisfied
with the way the city's work was being done, who remained to cavil? Certainly not the citizens.
St. Etienne's wheels moved almost without friction.

But Murdock went further than this. His was a fine instinct for organization. He used Barry
like a fat pawn, moved down to the king row, until the boss alderman was able to look abroad
on his noble army of small officeholders and contractors, who could be trusted, not only to
vote as directed (for to vote is a simple and ineffectual thing), but also to bring up their
hundreds and thousands of well-trained dogs to vote, and, if need be, to vote again, and then
to see that the votes were properly counted.

It was to Murdock's far-reaching mind that Barry was indebted for the regulation of interests
by which almost every man who served the city, and particularly those who served it badly and
expensively, was tied to Barry by ties closer than those of brotherly love. Whether official,
contractor or working-man, they owed job or contract to the influence that Barry seemed to
exercise in the councils of the city. It was by Murdock's advice that the better residence
district was well-policed, well-lighted, well-paved and generally contented with things as
they were. By Murdock's suggestion the city's interests were zealously guarded in the discussions
of the council.

When a committee of the Municipal Club visited that august body to listen to a debate on a
certain paving contract, they could not help being impressed by the large knowledge of materials
and methods displayed by their representatives, and the unanimity with which they agreed that
a particular bid was, if not the cheapest, the most deeply satisfying of those offered. What
they could not know was the ingenuity with which Murdock saved both the brain and the time
of the council by arranging its debate beforehand. But the committee did mention, among themselves,
the incongruity between the actual condition of St. Etienne's streets and the wisdom of the Solons.

But, though Murdock's was the brain to originate and systematize schemes of plunder for which
Barry alone had been incapable, once in a while the "boss" grew restive under dominion, in
spite of the knowledge that, if he should once break with the master mind, he would soon make
some fatal mistake and another would become the whole show. So, if the reign of King Barry
was for long temperate and orderly, it was because Murdock impressed upon him that royal arrogance
breeds discontent and finally revolt, and that by big rake-offs, on the quiet, enough could
be gained to satisfy the ambition of a well-regulated man; and that while plundering was done
with decency, the reform-talk of the Municipal Clubites would prove no more useful nor ornamental
than a Christmas card.

"Don't hog everything!" as Murdock sagely put it. "Let the other fellow have the small end
of the trough, and as long as he ain't hungry, he won't squeal."

With equal sternness he repressed Billy's fancy for fast horses and Mrs. Billy's taste for
green velvet and diamonds.

"It don't look well on a salary of eighteen hundred," he said. "Just you be contented with
having things your own way without talking about it. Throw all the dust you like, but don't
let it be gold dust."

"You cut a pretty wide swath yourself," Billy growled.

"I ain't a alderman, serving the city for pure love and a small salary," grinned the other.
"A contractor's got a right to make money."

"You make money out o' me," said Billy sourly. "You keep me under your big fat ugly thumb.
I guess I can run this business alone. I got all the strings pretty well in my own hand."

"All right, Barry. I'll be sorry to be on the other side, but if you say so, all right."

Barry swore a moment under his breath and changed the subject. So matters went on, with Barry
still subservient, but growing daily more inclined to believe himself the autocrat he seemed,
daily a little less cautious, a little more fixed in his assurance that the officeholders,
the delegates and the saloon men constituted, in themselves, a sufficient prop for his dominion,
and that Murdock was a nuisance.

"Of course, it's to his interest to keep me under," he said to himself, "and I dunno' whether
I'm a fool to let him do it, or whether I'm a fool to try to break away."

He began to try flyers on his own hook; he gathered many rake-offs of which he said nothing
to his mentor; he drank a little more and splurged a little more and looked a little more like
a bulldog and less like a man. That the spirit of rebellion was growing up and that the pawn
began to take credit to itself for the position of power in which it was placed, came gradually
home to Mr. Murdock. It made him at first annoyed, then anxious. So it was that the confidence
bred from years of business coöperation drove him this night to look up his old partner.

"Evening, Early," he said as the door closed behind him. "Beastly cold night out. Wish you'd
order me a little something hot to induce me to stay by this comfortable fire of yours."

Mr. Early waved his hand toward a chair and settled himself without ceremony. There was this
comfort in Murdock: they had known each other too long for pose, and, though the old hook-and-eye
partnership was dissolved, and Mr. Early had soared into the realms of Art, they were still
closely bound by common interests. So Sebastian met him with cheerful resignation.

"Sit down, Jim," he said. "I don't mind a nip myself. What's up?"

"What's down, you'd better ask. Lord save us! What's that?" exclaimed Mr. Murdock, as he caught
sight of the lurid lady lying amid the litter on the table.

"That's the cover of my next magazine. Never mind it. It's not in your line."

"Well, I should say not," said the other with a slow grin. "I've been pretty much vituperated
for some of my business deals, but I never sprung a thing like that on the public. 'Forget
thyself!' That's good, Early." He winked a wink that came more from the soul than from the eye.

"Oh, drop it, Jim," said Mr. Early, relapsing into the old vernacular. "I'm sick of everything
to-night. Here's your cocktail. Help yourself to a cigar."

"You ought to get married, instead of sitting here with the blues all by yourself. Tell you,
a warm little wife is a nice thing to come home to."

"Thank you, Jim," said Mr. Early dryly.

They sank into silence, a comfortable silence, permeated with the fragrance of tobacco, with
warmth in the cardiac region, and with that crackle of burning logs that satisfieth the soul.
But occasionally Mr. Early shot a sharp glance at his companion, and his study did not reassure
him. At last he spoke.

"Well, out with it, Jim. It's evident that you've something on your mind."

"You're right, I have," said Murdock with sudden emphasis. "I don't know whether you can help
me, but it's second nature for me to try you. I'm getting anxious about Barry and affairs connected
with him."

"What about Barry? I thought you had him in your pocket."

"Oh, I've still got him in the pocket over my heart, and buttoned down tight," said Mr. Murdock
grimly. "It's because he belongs to me that I'm looking out for him."

"Well," said Mr. Early, and he leaned forward nervously to poke the fire that needed no poking.

"Well! In spite of me, Billy's getting restless. He's getting worse than restless, and I'm
afraid to think how he may break out. You know how he loses his sense once in a while. Have
you noticed how the Star has been running him of late?" Mr. Murdock slowly gathered force in
stating his grievances.

"Yes, I've noticed it," said Mr. Early.

"The Star is the only paper I haven't got a strangle hold of--at least so I thought. But some
of the other dailies are butting in. Say they're afraid not to. Of course, an occasional black
eye is all in the day's work. It rather helps things along. Billy expects it, and he isn't
thin-skinned. It doesn't make much difference as long as our own organs print what they're
told. But, say, this thing is going beyond a joke. Billy has been really cut up over the way
this coroner business is getting home to the public. He says if there is going to be squirming,
he'll look out that there are other people squirming besides himself. I suppose that's meant
as a threat for me. You know there are things--even affairs that you are interested in, Sebastian--that
are all on the square, you know, and perfectly right, but they take too much explaining for
the public ever to understand them."

"I know," said Mr. Early, still poking the fire.

"And do you know who is back of the whole rumpus?"

"Who?" demanded Mr. Early sharply, looking up.

"Primarily this infernal next-door neighbor of yours."

"Percival?"

"Percival. He's too much of a kid to put himself forward, but he's really the whole thing.
He's been sneaking around town for months, picking up information. He has a confounded cheerful
way of making friends that has cut him out for the job of politics, if he would just put himself
on the right side. Of course he has no more idea of practical politics than--" Mr. Murdock
looked around for an object of comparison and concluded lamely, "than that girl on your magazine
cover. And what do you think is the latest?"

"What?"

"He's stirred up that mare's nest of a dude club till they've taken to sending a committee
to attend every meeting of the council--which is irritating."

"But not necessarily serious."

"Not in itself, though it's getting on Barry's nerves, as you people of fashion say. To tell
you the truth, I've had to make a concession to Barry, just to keep him in order. I preferred
him right on the council where he is, but he's got a bee in his top-hat. He wants to run for
mayor. I suppose he wants to show people what a great man he really is. I gave in to him on
that point. Now here comes in the thing that made me look you up. Barry has some sort of an
acquaintance with this Percival fellow, and when he proclaimed his intentions, Percival jumped
on him with a flat defiance--told him that he had proof of a disreputable affair in Barry's
career that would queer him with the whole community. How your neighbor got hold of this thing,
I'm jiggered if I can guess. I thought I was the only man in the city that knew it, and it
has been my chief club to keep Barry in order. But however he got them, Percival's facts were
all square, and Barry collapsed. Now, these two patched up an agreement. Barry promised to
give up his candidacy for mayor, and stay in his seat in the council, and Percival, on his
part, agreed to keep quiet."

"Well, that suits you all right."

"It would if it ended there, but what I started out to tell you is this: the Municipal Club
is beginning to take up city politics in earnest. They are organizing systematically in every
ward to be ready for a fight for the council in next fall's election, and, to cap the climax,
I was told to-day that they had succeeded in getting Preston to run for mayor. Now you know
they could hardly have picked out a worse man, so far as we are concerned. Preston is popular
and strong, and he's perfectly unapproachable. I'd as soon tackle the law of gravitation. It
isn't even pleasant for respectable citizens, like you and me, to come out publicly against
the whole movement. We can't afford to do it. Everything we do has got to be done on the quiet."

"You needn't get so hot, Jim. It'll blow over. This kind of thing always does. It's only spasmodic.
You ought to know that."

"Well, it's taking a very inconvenient time for its spasms. It may result in spasmodically
losing Billy his seat in the council in November. Nice thing if we didn't have a clear majority
of aldermen next winter, wouldn't it?" Mr. Murdock was becoming finely sarcastic in his rage.

"I suppose it would be inconvenient," assented Mr. Early.

"Inconvenient!" growled Murdock. "Is that the strongest swear word you can raise? Do you happen
to remember that the lighting franchise expires next fall? Now do we want it renewed, or do
we not? Can we afford to lose the biggest thing we've got? Do we want Billy to see it through,
or do we not?"

"We certainly do."

"Well, what do you propose to do about it?"

"I don't see that there is much to do except to sit pat, and let it blow over."

"Suppose when it blew over it should be a cyclone and you and me in the cellar? No siree, I'm
no sitter-down. I'm a fighter, even when I fight in secret. Damn this feller, Percival, and
his gift for making friends and stirring up enthusiasm for himself! I suspect he has ambitions.
So much the worse for him, if James Murdock is in the ring against him. Do you know my inferences?
I am sure he is not one of the invulnerables. The fact that he made a concession to Barry gives
him away. He didn't need to. If Barry can work him by a little flattery and an appeal to their
shoddy friendship, he's not one of your out-and-out, no-compromise, reform-or-die fellows.
Say, Early, you know him well. Can't you get at him?"

Mr. Early gave one of those roundabout motions that suggest a desire to wriggle out of the
whole matter, and answered slowly:

"I shouldn't wonder if the entire business petered out, anyway. It's almost a year to the next
election, and Percival is going to be married in a few weeks to a pretty little girl, who would
never stir a man's ambitions to anything more than a smart carriage and pair. He's turned idiotic
about her, and let's hope he'll stay so. Just at present I don't believe all the boodle and
graft in the world would turn a hair on him. Love and politics, my boy, are no more congenial
than water and oil--especially if the politics is rancid."

"We'll have to go into partnership with the lady to keep him down," said Murdock with a grin.
"I've formed more unlikely alliances than that in my time. Why, good Lord! what's that?" he
exclaimed for the second time that night.

His eyes had fallen upon a tall white column at the back of the room, and at his words the
column moved forward and displayed the flowing robes, the snowy white turban, the gleaming
ruby of Ram Juna.

"Pardon my interruption," said the Hindu courteously. "I have been out. I am but just returned.
And I come to assure myself that all is well with my admirable host."

"Ah, Murdock, this is my friend, the Swami. He's going to stay with me while he writes a book.
I've given him the west ell, off in the quiet of the garden, you know," said Mr. Early.

"With kindness you give it. Obligation is mine," said the Swami, with a deferential movement
of his hands. "And I go at once to devote myself to my greatest work. But now I have visited
a lady, Mrs. Appleton, who has great interest in me, and who desires to form what she calls
a class. I call it, rather, a circle of my friends."

"And what do you do with them?" asked Mr. Murdock, with the same bald curiosity that one displays
at the zoo before the performing seals.

"We increase the sum of nobility in the world," said the Swami softly. "We sit together in
long white robes, such as you see on me, and we pour out love upon the universe."

"Oh!" said Mr. Murdock. He was too astonished to pursue his investigations.

"It is a serene and blessed occupation," said the Swami.

"And do they--does the class pay for that?" Murdock recovered so far as to ask.

"Pay? Not so!" said the Swami indignantly. "I ask of life no more than a bare existence and
that, a thousand times that, is mine, by the benevolence of Mr. Early."

"They're devilish pretty women, some of 'em, though. You have that reward," said Mr. Early
jocularly.

The Swami cast on him a glance of cow-like anger, but Mr. Murdock went on persistently: "And
they don't give you any money at all?"

"For myself, no. Some, if it harmonize with their desires, make contribution through me to
the great temple in India, where the brothers may assemble, a sacred spot among the lonely
hills. Some give to that, but not to me. But I must no longer interrupt. I have made my salute.
I go to my remote room."

With a reverential movement of the head, the white column moved away.

"Gee!" said Mr. Murdock. "Can you stand that kind of thing around all the time?"

"Oh, I'm interested in all kinds of people," said Mr. Early. "And he's the most inoffensive
creature. I shall hardly see him. He intends to lock himself up out there in his room most
of the time. He meditates in silence ten hours a day and comes forth to give a lecture that
nobody understands. He's going to be all the rage."

"And, of course, if he's the rage, you have him. I wish you'd make Billy Barry the rage," said
Murdock.

"It's all I can do to popularize myself," said Early whimsically. "I'll think over the situation
a bit, Jim, and see if I can see any way out from under. Of course, Percival hasn't any record
by which you can discredit him and keep his mouth shut--at least not yet."

As Mr. Murdock took a last sip at the cocktail and made an unceremonious exit, again Mr. Early
settled himself for a period of repose, and again he was interrupted.

"Pardon," said the deep voice of the Swami. "You sit alone. Is it permitted that I repose here
and join your meditations? For a few moments? In silence, if you will?"

"I wish you'd pour out a little rest," said Early. "I'm tired."

"In spirit and in body," answered the Swami. "The rush of the wheel of life, it exhausts. But
I comprehend. I also am a man. The great world of business has its necessities and its value.
My outer nature shares in it. Ah, you know not. You think of me only on one side of being.
But, like you, I have my sympathies with many things."

Mr. Early made no reply, but sank deeper into his chair. The two sat long in silence. Sebastian
looked at the fire and began to build up a picture of Madeline's face. The Hindu was apparently
lost to the surrounding world, and yet he occasionally darted a glance of swift, animal-like
inquiry at his host.

"Neither do I like the young man Percival," he said placidly, and Mr. Early started.

"It is your next neighbor, Percival, is it not, who annoys?" the Swami inquired equably. "The
youth who sneers when first I speak at your house? In India, now, one may do many things that
are here impossible. Ah, but yes, you say, here you may do many things that are in India impossible.
So goes it. Still more. The same forces exist everywhere; but we in India, we understand the
forces that you, brilliant workers with the superficial, you do not understand. I shall be
glad to help the benevolent Early, if at any time my services are of value. I know to do many
things besides to meditate."

Mr. Early stared in amazement at the unmoved face before him, a face almost as round and mystifying
as the syllable "Om", on which its thoughts were supposed to be centered.

"And, remember, I, too, dislike the young man Percival," pursued the Swami blandly.

Mr. Early's mind suddenly stiffened with horror.

"See here," he exclaimed, sitting up, "you understand Mr. Percival is no enemy of mine. He
is, in fact, a friend. You mustn't think you'd be doing me a kindness by--ah--injuring him
in any way."

"My understanding," said the Swami, still unmoved. "Fear no midnight assassination, noble friend.
That is petty--and dangerous. I am not oblivious of the conventionalities. But the mind may
be reached, as well as the body. Percival may do as I--you--we--wish. The higher animal at
all times controls the lower. Perhaps, at some time, I may serve you. But you weary. The body
makes demands. I bid you good night."

He put out a great paw, and Mr. Early grasped it weakly, feeling that he was in the position
of one who has started an oil "gusher" and can not control its flow. He might have to light
it to get rid of it.

To his own room went Ram Juna, occasionally nodding his head in his serene manner. He carefully
locked behind him the door which connected his wing with the rest of the house. A few moments
he paused listening, then he crossed his bedroom and the narrow passage that opened on the
garden and entered the little unused room beyond. Here all was dark, inky dark, for the heavy
shutters on the street side of the room were closed and barred and the shades on the garden
front were drawn, shutting out what dim rays the departed sun had left the night. The Swami
apparently had no need of greater light, for, neglecting the electric button near the door,
he groped quietly about, struck a match and lighted a single candle, with which he returned
to the hallway and opened the garden door, standing for a moment with the taper flickering
in the rush of cold air that poured in from outside. When he stepped back and closed the door,
there stood beside him another man, clean-shaven, lean, sharp-nosed and ferret-eyed, whose
footstep was almost as light as that of the Swami himself. Neither of them spoke until they
reached the smaller room and the door was locked.

"You shiver, my friend," said Ram Juna. "The night is cold."

"Freezin', an' so'm I," said the other shortly. "You keep me waiting a devil of a time."

"Business, oh my friend, business. Can I utter a word to the ears of your nationality more
convincing? I was necessitated to converse with my host, the rich and amiable Early. Ah, the
nature of humanity is eternally interesting."

His companion grinned.

"Which means, being interpreted, you've got some lay, I suppose. What is it!"

"Abruptness is to me foreign," said the Swami, waving his great hand with its combination of
fat palm and taper fingers. "It disturbs me. Perhaps, some day, I shall need tell you. The
amiable Early is as are all mankind. On the one side he gropes among infinities. Do we not
all so? On the other side he is tied by this body of clay to the groveling earth. Are we not
all so? Am not even I myself?" The Swami turned benevolently toward the other.

"You bet! And you can sling language about it!" said the man, and he opened his rat's mouth
and laughed without noise. Even Ram Juna's face relaxed into its Buddha smile, calm, inscrutable,
as the two gazed on each other. Suddenly the younger drew himself together.

"Well, I ain't got no time to spare," he said. "Are they ready?"

"I, as well as you Americans, can be the votary of business," answered Ram Juna. "The first
principle of business is promptitude. My friend, they are ready."

"Well, hand 'em over," said the little man. "Now my job begins; and I guess it's as ticklish
as yours. You may need the skill, but I need the gall."

"The daring of the leopard when it leaps from the bush where it crouches, the daring which
is half cunning, eh, my friend?" said the Swami comfortably. "Here, take the package and go
thy way. There will be more in the future. These I brought with me from India, and even the
eagle customs found them not. Many night-hours have I spent in preparing them, and mine eyes
have been robbed of sleep. It is no slight task to produce a masterpiece."

"Well, you certainly are a dandy," said the man, examining the contents of his package. "I
never seen anything like it. And those big hands, too."

"My hands obey the skill of my mind. And here, under the shadow of the Early, I can work with
purer courage. This is the perfection of a place. It was the idea of genius to come here. Hold,
let me examine the way before thou goest."

"Aw, there won't be any body in the garden at this time o' night, and at this time o' year."

"Nay, but it is the wise man who leaves no loophole for mistake," said the Hindu, with practical
caution.

He blew out the light and stepped in darkness to the entrance with the air of one who would
refresh his soul by gazing at the stars and wiping out the trivialities of the day. After he
had looked at the heavens, his eyes fell with piercing swiftness upon the shadows of the garden,
its bushes, manlike or animal-like in the night.

It was as complete a piece of acting as though a large audience had been there to see, but
all thrown away on silence and solitude.

"Coast clear?" said a voice behind him.

"All is well," said the Swami. "Go forth to fortune."

The door closed softly, and Ram Juna sought the repose he had earned.

CHAPTER XV

THE HONEYMOON

The first months of winter were full of excitement to Lena. She frequently assured herself
that she was rapturously happy, but, while intellectually she accepted the fact, no genial
warmth pervaded her consciousness. The entrance to her new life was too brier-sprinkled for
bliss. Daily to face her mother's mingling of complaisance, self-pity and fault-finding; to
meet Dick's friends, whom Lena, in her suspicions, regarded as thinly-disguised enemies; to
scrimp together some little show of bridal finery for her quiet wedding; all this filled her
with mingled irritation and gratification.

Most aggravating of all were the persistent attentions of Miss Madeline Elton. No one likes
to be loved as a matter of duty, certainly not Lena Quincy, whose shrewd little soul easily
divined that this equable warmth of manner, which she dubbed snippy condescension, sprang from
affection for Dick and Mrs. Percival and not for herself. Madeline set Lena's teeth on edge,
and it must be confessed that Lena often did as much for Madeline, but each politely kept her
sensations to herself. Miss Elton always assured her optimistic soul that things would come
out all right, that love was a great developer, that small vulgarities of mind were the result
of association.

Lena, on the other hand, might have broken friendly relations once and for all except that
she found Miss Elton both useful and interesting. A friendly and very sly conspiracy between
Madeline and Mrs. Percival had for its object the helping out of Lena's meager trousseau by
certain little gifts, and even of money delicately proffered so that it might not wound a sensitive
pride; and since Mrs. Percival was a victim to invalidish habits, it fell to Madeline to act
as executive committee. But they need not have troubled themselves about delicacy, for Miss
Lena greedily gobbled everything that was offered to her, with pretty expressions of gratitude,
to be sure, but internal irritation because the donors were not more lavish.

Madeline, who would have shrunk from accepting a gift except from one she really loved, of
course expected Lena to feel the same way, and every one of these presents given and taken
was to her an assurance strong of a new bond between them. So they shopped together, and Lena
modestly picked out some appallingly cheap affair and said:

"You know I feel that is the best I can afford." And Madeline would whisper, "Take the other,
dear, and let the difference be a small wedding present from me. Won't you be so generous?"
and Lena was so generous; but she told herself that they were not doing it for her, but only
because they were ashamed that Dick should have a shabby bride. And perhaps she was right.
It is pretty hard to analyze human motives, so you may always take your choice, and fix your
mind either on the good ones or on the bad ones, whichever suit you best. Doubtless they are
both there.

Sometimes Lena wished that she had been given a lump sum and allowed to browse alone, for she
felt her taste pruned and pinioned by the very presence of Miss Elton, who, though she never
ventured to criticize, had yet a depressing influence on Lena's exuberant fancies.

Once, after such a silent sacrifice on her part, Madeline and she drove up to the Percivals'
for five-o'clock tea. Her future mother-in-law was in the accustomed seat, and Lena found a
footstool near at hand, with a pretty air of affectionate proprietorship that brought a glow
to Dick's face.

"Yes," said Lena with a charming pout, "I'm utterly played out, getting myself ready for your
approval, sir."

"Poor little girl," he whispered. "If you only knew what an easy task that ought to be!"

"I'm so glad Madeline can go with you," Mrs. Percival said, patting the girl's hand approvingly.
"I always think she has such perfect taste. Some people get fine clothes and then make an heroic
effort to live up to them, but Madeline has the supreme gift of managing clothes that seem
a part of herself."

It is impossible to tell how a speech like this rankled in Lena. Sometimes she had a wild impulse
to stand up and stamp and scream out, "I hate the whole lot of you!" but she never did. She
kept on smiling and purring and longing for the freedom which would come when she was safely
married, had passed her initiation ceremonies, and could command her own money.

But it was wonderful what a fascination she felt for everything that concerned Miss Elton.
Every act, every garment, every inflection of the girl she hated most was interesting to her.
She watched Madeline like a cat, and disliked her more and more.

At length came the new year, and the day when Lena sat in a carriage by Dick's side and was
whirled away on that journey that was to take her out of the old and into the new. Her hour-old
husband looked at her with an expression half-quizzical, half-adoring as she sat back and glanced
up with a heartfelt sigh, secure at last of her position as the wife of Richard Percival. Until
this moment she had never wholly believed it.

"I'm glad the wedding's over," she said.

"And I. More glad that our married life has begun. Lena, Lena, how beautiful you are! When
you came down the aisle, I hardly dared to look at you; and yet it seems to me now that you
are more lovely here alone with me. I should think God would have been afraid to make such
eyes and lips and hair, sweetheart, knowing that He could never surpass them."

He softly touched the little curl that crept out from below her hat and kissed the upturned
mouth in that ecstasy that borders on awe.

"Now," he said, "you are never so much as to think of anything unpleasant for the rest of your
life. I wonder what you will most like to do?"

"Buy all the clothes I want," cried Lena with such a deliciously whimsical twist of her little
lips that Dick laughed at her irresistible wit. That was coming to be one of Lena's most fetching
little ways, to say what she meant as though it were the last thing in the world that could
be expected of her. It was piquant.

It was no time of year to dally in true lovers' fashion under pine trees in some remote solitude,
so Dick took her to cities and theaters and big shops and got his fun out of watching her revel
with open purse. Their honeymoon was more full of occupation and less of rapture and sweet
isolated intimacy than Dick could have wished, but it was much to watch the color come and
go on her cheek in her moments of excitement, to fulfil every capricious whim of her who had
been starved in her feminine hunger of caprice, to punctuate the rush of life by celestial
moments when she rested a tired but bewildering head against his shoulder and listened silently
with drooping lids to all he had to say, to feel that he could answer the admiring glances
of other men with the triumphant knowledge, "All this loveliness is mine--only mine." Lena
was so happy, so outrageously happy,--and so shyly affectionate, what could the young husband
do but take with content the gifts the gods provided; and Dick was lavish and easily cajoled.
The simple trousseau helped out by Miss Elton suddenly swelled to new and magnificent proportions.
Lena blossomed and glowed; she tricked herself out in the finery that he provided and paraded
before him and the glass until they both laughed with delight. Dick felt that he was playing
with a new and sublimated doll, it was all so amusing, so inconsequential, and such fun. Although
he wondered a little where it would be appropriate to wear the enormous pink hat with drooping
plumes which perched on the showily fluffy head now facing him, he quite appreciated the effect.

"Oh, of course you think I'm stunning," Lena pouted. "But the question is, what will other
people think?"

"Other people aren't the question at all," retorted Dick. "Who cares what they think so long
as you and I know that you are the very loveliest woman on this whole wide earth--this good
old earth."

When they came home, Lena exulted again in the luxurious rooms that Dick had fitted up for
her in fashion more modern than the somber dignity of the rest of the house. Here was another
new sensation--a household without bickerings. The elder Mrs. Percival, having accepted the
situation, was no niggard in her spirit of courtesy, but very gracious as was her wont, and
Lena was astonished to find that she and her new mother-in-law ran their respective lines without
collisions. The half-invalid older woman breakfasted in her own room and occupied herself with
quiet readings and sewings and drivings, but when she did appear on the family horizon, it
was always as a beneficent presence.

Lena purred in the presence of comfort; but when you see a kitten serenely snoozing before
the fire, it does not do to leap to the conclusion that this kitten would not know what was
expected of her on the back fence at midnight.

If storm and stress should ever come, Dick had himself helped her to feel that beauty would
fill the measure, wherever it fell short; that however she might sin, beauty was her sufficient
apology.

Mrs. Quincy, established in a little flat with a middle-aged submissive slavey, was as nearly
reconciled to fate as her nature would allow. Her rooms were pleasantly furnished, but Lena's
mother was full of the genius of discord, and almost automatically she so rearranged her surroundings
that each particular article made strife with its neighbor. Harmony and Mrs. Quincy could not
live in the same house. When Lena paid her duty visits (and she was irritated at the frequency
with which Dick's and Madame Percival's expectations seemed to exact them) she had not only
to listen in nauseated impatience to Mrs. Quincy's minute questions and comments on people
and things, but she had also to feel her rapidly-developing tastes offended by her mother's
domestic order.

"Miss Elton's real kind. She's been here twice since you was here. And she brought flowers."

"Mother! And did you have a newspaper on top of that pretty little table?"

"Land sakes! And if I didn't I should have to watch Sarah every minute to see she didn't put
something hot on it or scratch the mahogany top. I can't afford to have everything I've got
spoiled. No knowin' when I'll git anything more--dependent as I am on other people."

"I'll bring you a pretty table-cover then."

"I'd like a red one. But I didn't suppose you'd think of gittin' one."

"Oh, mother, red wouldn't look well in this room."

"Now, I just think a bit of real bright red would hearten it up. If you don't git red, you
needn't git any, Lena Quincy, for I won't use it. Are you goin' now? Seems to me you got precious
little time for your old mother since you put on all your fine lady airs."

And Lena? Have you ever watched a cecropia moth when it crawls out of its dull gray prison
of chrysalis? It is a moist, frail, tottering creature with tiny wings folded against its quivering
body, but as the spring sunshine brings to play its magic and infuses its "subtle heats," there
come shivers of growth. Great waves seem to pulsate from the body into the wings, and with
each wave goes color and strength. In quick throbs they come at last until they look like a
continuous current, and before your eyes is a glorious bird-like creature, with damask wings
outspread, and flecked with peacock spots, hiding the slender body within. It feels its strength,
spreads and preens itself, and is away to the forest to meet its fate.

Such was Lena in the first months of her marriage. The world's warmth welcomed her, partly
in curiosity, and partly because she was in truth Richard Percival's wife, and the protégée
of Mrs. Lenox, who took every pains to shield her and help her. The ways of that little sphere
that calls itself society she found it not difficult to acquire, when to beauty she added the
paraphernalia of luxury. A little trick of holding oneself, a turn of speech, a familiarity
with a certain set of people and their doings, and the thing is accomplished. Was there ever
yet an American girl, whose supreme characteristic is adaptability, who could not learn it
in a few months, if she set her mind to it?

As she experienced the true pleasure of being inside, which is the knowledge that there are
outsiders raging to make entrance, she spread her wings, did Madame Cecropia, and the only
wonder was that she was ever packed away in the dull gray chrysalis. And now every one forgot
that ugly thing, when Lena changed her sky but not her heart.

Dick and she lived in a whirl; and if he would have liked, after strenuous days spent in spreading
political feelers, to have found at home quiet evenings and old slippers, he was rapidly learning
that the position of husband to a young beauty is no sinecure. And he admired and loved her
too much to fling even a rose leaf of opposition in her path. The very hardship of her past
made him tender to every whim of the present. Dick's chivalry was deep-grained, as it is in
men who have lived among pure and simple women. In everything that wore petticoats he saw something
of his mother, fragile, noble, ambitious for those she loved and forgetful of self. When Lena
began to show him things that he could not admire, he laid the blame of them, not to her, but
to the world that had played the brute to her. And if he tried to change her it was with apology
in his heart for daring to criticize. But as Lena came to take for granted the ease and comfort
of her new life, she more and more laid aside the pose with which she had at first edified
her lord, and spoke her real mind. She had fully acquired the manner and the garments of a
lady. She could not see that more was needed.

One gray wintry day, as they walked homeward together from a midday musicale, they passed a
grimy little girl who whimpered as she clutched her small person.

"What's the matter, girlie?" asked Dick, and as he stopped his wife, too, halted perforce.

"My pettitoat's comin' down," sobbed the child.

"Is that all?" said Dick. "I wouldn't cry about such a little thing. I'll soon fix it for you."
And he stooped.

"Dick," said Lena imperatively, "there's a carriage coming!"

"Let it come!" said Dick. "Sorry I haven't a safety-pin, girlie, but I guess this one will
do till you get home." That impulsive interest in all varieties of human nature was so natural
to him that he took for granted that it was a part of our common nature.

He looked up with a smile to see Lena's face crimson with wrath and shame. Her expression sobered
him.

"What's the matter?" he demanded.

"It was Mrs. Lenox who drove by," she urged. "And she looked so amused."

"I don't wonder. I'm amused myself," he replied gaily.

"A nice thing for a gentleman to be seen doing," Lena went on, with a voice growing shrill
like her mother's. "To play nursemaid to a dirty little street brat!" She had said things like
this to him before, but always with that little smile and naughty-child air. Now, for the first
time she forgot the smile, and this small omission made an astonishing difference in the impression.

"I don't know what else a gentleman should do," answered Dick; "or a lady, either. Mrs. Lenox
would have done as much for any baby, her own or another."

"Much she would!" said Lena sharply. "I've been at her house. She has rafts of nurses to do
all the waiting on her children. I guess she doesn't let them trouble her any more than she
can help. If she's unlucky enough to have the squally little things, she keeps away from them."

Even as she spoke, Lena realized that her acid voice was a mistake, but she said to herself
that she was tired of acting, and it did not make any difference what Dick thought now. She
was his wife.

"Perhaps you don't know the whole, Lena," Dick answered. "I happen to have seen Mrs. Lenox
when she was devoting herself to a sick baby, and Madeline has told me of the kind of personal
care she gives."

"The more fool she, when she can get some one else to do it for her," said Lena, with feminine
change of front.

"Is that the way you feel about children?" asked Dick soberly.

"I suppose they are necessary evils," said Lena with a smart laugh. "But I'd rather they'd
be necessary to other women than to me."

"Well, perhaps that's a natural feeling, when we're young and like to be irresponsible; but
I fancy, dear, that things look pretty different as we get along and are willing to pay the
price for our happinesses--to pay for love with service and self-sacrifice. As for me, I pray
that you and I may not some day be childless old folks."

Lena glanced at him sidewise as they walked, and his somber face showed her that her mistake
went deeper than she had suspected.

"I'm sorry I was cross," she said with pretty contrition, but her prettiness and contrition
did not have their usual exhilarating effect on Dick. Lena even turned and laid her hand softly
on his arm. Still he did not look at her.

"I wasn't hurt by your crossness, dear," he said gently.

                 *       *       *       *       *

Among those to open hospitable doors to the bride and groom was Mr. Early. His house adjoined
theirs, and only a hedge separated the two gardens, old-fashioned, with comfortable seats under
wide trees on the Percival place, elaborately Italian on Mr. Early's domain, but spacious both,
for St. Etienne had the advantage of doing most of its growth after rapid transit was invented,
and had therefore never cribbed and cabined its population into solid blocks of brick and mortar,
but had given everybody elbow-room, so that its residence district looked much like the suburbs
of older cities.

So Dick and Lena went to dine with Mr. Early, and the bride had the thrilling delight of sitting
between her world-famous host and an equally illustrious scholar, who had his head with him,
extra size, and was plainly bored to death by his own erudition. It was a large dinner, and
Lena was alert to study every one, both what he did and how he did it; but chiefly, from her
vantage point at the right hand of her host; did she watch Miss Madeline Elton, who sat near
the middle of the table on the other side, where Lena could study her face over a sea of violets.
Lena was puzzled. Madeline seemed less reposeful and more charming than she remembered. For
an instant she wondered if her own beauty, now tricked out by jewels, was not cheap beside
Miss Elton's undecorated loveliness. She noted that the men around the table looked often in
Madeline's direction. Even Mr. Early occasionally let his attention wander from his suave courtesy
toward herself, and Lena resented this. She deeply admired Mr. Early. His was the big and blatant
success which she could easily comprehend, and she exulted at the idea of sitting at the post
of honor beside a man distinguished over the length and breadth of the land. Once, even her
own husband, Richard Percival, leaned forward and gazed at Madeline as she spoke across the
table, and there was a look in his face that Lena treasured in her cabinet of unforgiven things.
She flushed with anger. Her hatred of Miss Elton was as old as her acquaintance with her husband,
and its growth had been parallel.

Then her eyes met the glowing glance of a dark face under a turban of soft white silk, and
she turned hastily away.

"I see you are looking at my ceiling, Mrs. Percival," said Mr. Early. "It is a reproduction
of the beautiful fan-tracery in the Henry VII chapel at Westminster. Doubtless you recognize
it. But, alas, it is impossible to attain the spiritual beauty of the original until age has
laid its sanctifying hand on the carving. This has had but a year of life for each century
that the chapel tracery can boast. And, of course, I admit that the effect must be modified
by the surroundings. A dining-room can never have the atmosphere of a church, can it, my dear
Mrs. Percival? Though I assure you, I have tried to be consistent in all the decorations and
the furniture of this room."

"It's very beautiful," said Lena. "And who is the large gentleman with the long white mustaches?"

"Surely you have met Mr. Preston. He is one of our best type of business men, and the candidate
that the new reform element, in which your husband is playing an honorable part, is hoping
to set up for mayor. It would be a notable thing for this community if we might have a man
of his stamp represent our municipality."

"I have heard Dick speak of him," said Lena, "And is that the wonderful Hindu of whom I've
heard? All the ladies are crazy about him, but I never happened to see him before."

"That is Ram Juna. He has been with me now for two months, and is to stay indefinitely. He
is engaged on a work that will, I am convinced, add one more to the sacred books of the world.
We need such men in this age of materialism, do we not? And I feel gratefully the beneficent
effect of such a presence in my house."

So Mr. Early went on with ponderous sentences and a sharp look in his eye.

But Lena hardly heard him. She was absorbed in the soft lights and the flowers and the wonderful
china, most of which, her host told her, had been made in his own works and was unique in the
world. But strange as were all these things, her eyes kept coming back, as if fascinated, to
the man-mountain in the silky white robe. The big ruby on his forehead seemed to wink and flash
at her, and as often as she looked she met the sleepy eyes fixed on her face. Then she was
irresistibly drawn to look again to see if he was still watching. For once, she forgot her
big blue eyes and her bright little fluffs of hair and all the execution that they were meant
to do on the masculine heart, because there was something different in the way this Oriental
surveyed her. It was an unblinking and unemotional study.

Fortunately Mr. Early was content to talk and let her answer in brief. Talking was not Lena's
strong point. Mr. Early went on with his monologue, in platitudes about art, and Lena looked
interested, or tried to, while she caught scraps of conversation from farther down the table.

Miss Elton was telling a story of her cooking-class in a certain poor district. She had shown
a flabby wife, noted even in that region for her lack of culinary skill, how to make a dish
at once cheap, palatable and nutritious.

"And I said, 'Now Mrs. Koshek, if you'd give that to your husband some night when he comes
home tired, don't you think it would be a pleasant surprise?' But all I could get out of her
was, 'I'd ruther eat what I'd ruther; I'd ruther eat what I'd ruther.' And I'm afraid Mr. Koshek
is still living on greasy sausages."

"That might teach you, Miss Elton," said Mr. Preston, "the futility of trying to improve women
by reason. Now a man--"

"Oh, pooh, reason! reason!" exclaimed Mrs. Lenox, turning upon him, "I'm sorry for you poor
men, you mistaken servants of boasted reason! Reason is the biggest fallacy on earth. It leads
men by the straight path of logic to pure foolishness."

"And how is your woman's reason to account for that?" he asked tolerantly.

"Oh, I suppose your premises are never true. Or, if they are, another man's opposite premises
are equally true. So there you are. Two contradictions are equally valid, but being a reasonable
man you can't see more than one of them."

"And women can see both sides, of course."

"Truly. And flop from one to the other with lightning rapidity. We are too completely superior
to reason to have any respect for or reliance on it. Do you think I try reason on my husband
when he is in the wrong in his arguments with me! Not at all. I just say, 'I'm afraid you are
not feeling well, dear.' And I put a mustard plaster on him. It's extraordinary how seldom
he disagrees nowadays. Or when he's very obstinately set on an objectionable course, it's a
good plan to say sweetly, 'I'll do just as you like, dear.' He invariably comes back with an
emphatic, 'No--we'll do as you like.'"

"I relinquish all claims to be called a reasonable being," said Mr. Lenox with a wry face.

"When we, the unmarried, hear confessions of this kind," said Madeline, "it gives us an incongruous
feeling to remember how happy you, the married, seem, after all."

"Getting along becomes a habit," retorted Dick. "Matrimony is like taking opium. It fixes itself
on you. I suppose when the hero of Kipling's poem found out that she was only 'a rag and a
bone and a hank of hair,' he kept on loving the rag, even while he felt like gnawing the bone
and pulling the hair."

He knew he had said an ugly thing. It wasn't like him. He flushed as he saw Mrs. Lenox glance
sharply at him.

"Dick, Dick, that is heresy," she exclaimed gaily. "We must pretend there aren't any vampires,
and that we do not know what they are made of. If we tell the naked truth, how can we cry out
with conviction that the old world is an harmonious and beautiful place?"

"That isn't your real philosophy," he said.

"No, it isn't," she said. "I sometimes wish it were. If one could have the temperament to shut
one's eyes and say, 'I don't see it; therefore it isn't true,' what a very easy thing life
would be."

"I don't know," answered Dick. "Going it blind with a dog and a string doesn't generally make
it easier to walk."

"That's true," Madeline put in. "A little dog isn't a very good guide up the hilly road of
righteousness. As for me, I prefer open-eyed obedience to blind obedience."

"I'll be bound you prefer obedience anyway," Dick said in an undertone, and he looked at her
as though something in her hurt him. He turned abruptly to Mr. Preston.

"Preston," he said, "I wish we could hold a special election and put you into the executive
chair before your time. Every kind of evil thing is taking advantage of our present lax administration.
I believe the crooks of other cities are flying to us on the wings of the wind. One of the
plain-clothes men told me to-day that the government detectives have traced a gang of counterfeiters
to our beloved city, though they have not succeeded in spotting the rascals' whereabouts. It's
rather humiliating to find St. Etienne picked out as a good hiding-place for any villany there
is going."

"You needn't be so sure that a special election or any other kind would carry us in," laughed
Mr. Preston. "I'm not so confident as you seem, Percival, that this community is overwhelmed
with the consciousness of its rare opportunity."

And so the talk drifted on, as usual, to politics.

After dinner, in the drawing-room, Lena saw her husband in conversation with Ram Juna. The
two crossed the room, and Dick introduced the new prophet.

"I fear my too constant inspection disturbed you. Myriad pardons for me," began the Swami in
his mellifluous voice. "It is the tribute. When I feel deep interest I am prone to forget all
but my study. See, I am the last of a family once powerful and wealthy; yet I hardly regret
that heritage that I have lost. I look at you. You are the type of another fate. You are a
bride, young, lovely, with the vigor and glory of this new race of America. I envy not, but
I wonder. So I look too long."

Lena glanced discomfited at the retreating back of her husband and said, "I'm sure I didn't
notice anything peculiar."

A curious gleam came into Ram Juna's sleepy eyes.

"Ah, then you, like me, love to examine the soul, your own or another's. You have fellow feeling.
So you forgive. May I sit here beside you?"

Lena drew aside her petticoats and the Swami shared her little sofa.

"You see that while you make study of others, I make study of you. I should wish to be your
friend. I should in fact fear to have you count me an enemy."

Lena blinked at him in an uncomprehending way with her big eyes, and he smiled innocently in
return.

"A woman who is an enemy is a danger. But men are tough-skinned and hard to kill. Is it not
so? And even a woman enemy is often powerless to hurt. But when a woman hates a woman, then
the case is different. A woman is easy to hurt. A little blow, even a breath on her reputation
or to her pride, and the woman is wounded beyond repair. Is it not so?"

Still Lena stared blankly at him, but as he did not return her gaze, her eyes followed his
to the other side of the room where Miss Elton bent over a table, with Mr. Early on one side
of her and Dick Percival on the other.

"Oh!" she said with a little gasp. "Oh!" And Ram Juna looked back at her and smiled again.

"Therefore I was right to desire your friendship and not your enmity, was I not?" said he.
"I, too, am a good friend and a bad enemy. See, Mr. Early shows some wonderful Japanese paintings.
Shall we join them in the inspection?"

And Lena went with wonder, and in her mind there began to form vague clumsy purposes which
the Hindu would have despised if he had read them.

Nor did her conversation with her husband in the home-returning carriage tend to soften Lena's
heart.

Dick was in an uncomfortable and irritable state of mind which was strange and disconcerting
even to himself. Instead of giving her the big hug that was his habit when they found themselves
safely alone, he said sharply,

"Lena, you use too much perfume about you. I wish you wouldn't."

"Do I?" asked Lena ominously. "Is there anything else?"

"Well, since you give me the chance to say it, dear," Dick's tone was now apologetic, "I'd
a little rather you wore your dinner gowns higher. I know many women do wear things like yours
to-night, and your dressmaker has dictated to you; but I think the extremes are not well-bred.
Just look at the best women. Look at Mrs. Lenox and Madeline--"

But here Lena gave so sharp a little cry of anger that Dick stopped dismayed.

"How dare you?" she screamed. "How dare you hold up a girl you know I hate as an example to
me! If she's so perfect, why didn't you marry her? I'm sure she wanted you badly enough."

Dick shrank back a little. To him love--the desire for marriage--was hardly a thing to be touched
by outside hands. He wished Lena would not tear down the veils of reticence so ruthlessly.

"Lena, she did not want me at all. Be reasonable."

"Well, then, you took me just because you couldn't get her, did you? Everything she does and
wears is perfection. And there's nothing about me that's right!" Lena had now come to the point
of angry tears.

"There's one thing about you that's right; and that's my arms, sweetheart." Dick spoke sturdily
in spite of trepidation, for this was a new experience to him. "You know I love you, Lena,
I did not mean to hurt you. I thought only that you were a sweet little inexperienced woman,
and that you would welcome any hints from your husband's worldly wisdom. Come, don't turn into
an Undine, dear, and get the carriage all wet,"--for his wife was now sobbing on his shoulder.

"You've told me lots of times that I was perfect," she cried. "I don't see why you want to
change me now. You're so inconsistent, Dick."

"I wish that I could make up for my brutality," said Dick. "How can I, Lena? I feel like the
fellow that threw a catsup bottle at his wife's head at the breakfast-table and then felt so
badly when he saw the nasty stuff trickling down her pretty curls that he brought her home
a pair of diamond earrings for dinner."

"What a horrid vulgar story!" exclaimed Lena.

"Isn't it?" Dick rejoined. "But vulgar things are frequently true, as we learn with sorrow.
Lena, can't we believe that our marriage certificate had an affection insurance policy given
with it? Don't let us indulge in little quarrels. As you say, they are vulgar. I want love
to be not only a rich solid pudding full of plums, but I want it to have a meringue on top."

As he hoped, this made Lena laugh, and she pulled out her over-scented handkerchief to wipe
her eyes. Dick shut his lips tightly, grown too wise to speak.

CHAPTER XVI

LENA'S FRIENDS

Lena sat one morning behind the coffee-urn so self-absorbed and smiling that Dick wondered.

"Mrs. Percival," he remonstrated, "you have a husband at this end of the table. Have you forgotten
it? What are you thinking about?"

"Dick, I believe I have found a friend--a real friend," Lena jerked out.

"A good many of them, I should say. Who is this fortunate person?"

"Mrs. Appleton."

"Mrs. Appleton!" Dick gulped at his coffee and stared at his wife in some perplexity. "Isn't
she a--well, for one thing, a good deal older than you?"

"She'll be all the better guide," Lena retorted with one of her demure pouts. "You know she
invited me to join the class she has gotten up for Swami Ram Juna. You needn't grin in that
horrid way, Dick. I shall be so wise very soon that you'll be afraid of me."

"Heaven forbid, you dear little inspirer of awe."

"At any rate, she's taken the greatest fancy to me, and I to her. She came here yesterday in
the pouring rain, and we spent a long afternoon talking together. We feel the same way about
everything. She says that with my beauty, I ought to make a great hit, and she's going to give
a big reception in my honor. Of course, with her experience, she can be a great help to me."

"I see." Dick forgot his breakfast entirely, and meditated.

"What is Mr. Appleton like?" Lena persisted.

"He has enough money to make me pale my ineffectual fires, and he adds to that the personality
of the great American desert. But I suspect his wife is so wholly satisfied with the golden
glow that the latter fact has never penetrated to her consciousness. I think Mrs. Appleton
has not yet recovered from her astonishment at finding herself wedded to profusion. It appears
to delight her afresh from day to day."

"You can be very nasty about people when you choose." Lena's tone was unmistakably vexed.

"Frankly, Lena, I do not like Mrs. Appleton or her attitude toward life. She is the kind of
woman who refuses to take the simplest thing simply, the kind that thinks subscription dances
and clubs and private cars and family tombs were invented chiefly to show our exclusiveness."

"Well, what are they for?"

Dick laughed. "Most of them to get all the fun there is in things, I should say; and the tombs,
to show that love holds even after death."

"I like her, anyway," said Lena. "I like her better than the stuck-up kind of women." The words
sound bald. Lena's lips made them seem humorous. It was so easy to avoid disapprobation just
by that little smile and whimsical twist of the mouth.

"And whom do you mean by that!"

"You know whom I mean," Lena answered defiantly. "And I consider Mrs. Appleton a great deal
more of a society woman than Mrs. Lenox. At any rate she goes a great deal more. And she does
not neglect her church duties or her charities, either. She has told me things that she is doing."

"I should say she does not neglect them," ejaculated Dick. "She has the art so to regild them
that even philanthropy and religion become mere appendages to society. Does Mrs. Lenox belong
to Ram Juna's class, Lena?"

"No. Mrs. Appleton asked her, but she wrote that though she was interested in oriental thought,
she, personally, found it more satisfactory to get it by reading. Now wasn't that snobby, Dick?"

"Is it snobbish to choose what really suits you, instead of following a craze like a sheep woman?"

But Lena shut her lips tightly. If she had not will, she had obstinacy. She could be resolute
in behalf of her realities, luxury, beauty and self. From the moment when Mrs. Appleton first
dawned on her horizon, she had recognized her ideal. Here was a woman who was at once showy,
fashionable and virtuous. The things that Mrs. Lenox took for granted or ignored were to her
matters of absorbing importance. She magnified the office of every detail of social conduct
and every minutia of society's "functions". It was worth while to spend a week of soul-fatiguing
labor in order that a tea should be just right; and her preparations were not made in silence,
but with an amount of discussion and red-tape that filled every crevice of life. She had learned
the art of so cramming the days with trifles that there was no room for the big things and
she could conveniently forget them.

Mrs. Appleton seemed to recognize in Lena the same curious mingling of deep-down barbaric egotism
and love of display, with the longing to be civilizedly correct. The two were drawn together.

"I like her," said Lena positively.

"I'm sorry," Dick said gently. "I can't say that I do, and I should be glad if you could find
your friends among those I love and respect."

"You needn't try to dictate my friendships," said Lena sharply.

"I did not think of dictating, sweetheart. But when we love each other, we naturally long for
sympathy in all things." Dick was making a brave effort.

But there was little use in making this appeal to Lena, to whom love was but a beneficent masculine
idiosyncrasy. Dick glanced at her and at his watch.

"I must be off," he said. "I have an engagement to meet Preston and plan out our campaign."

"Ours!"

"I'm going to run for alderman of this ward," Dick laughed as Lena flushed. "Don't you approve?"

"How can you be interested in running for alderman?" she asked. "It is such a mean little ambition.
I wish you would try for something big. It would be grand to have you a senator, so that we
could go to Washington. I should love to be in all the gaieties and meet all the distinguished
people."

"Why, sweetheart, you don't suppose I care for the great name of city father, do you?" Dick
answered laughing. "That's only the end of a lever. I do care immensely to be one of those
who will clean up this city and keep it clean. Perhaps, if we do these near-by things, the
big ones will come, by and by."

"A sort of public housemaid," said Lena scornfully.

"Exactly!" Dick laughed and nodded.

But Lena shrugged her shoulders and pouted as the door shut and she idly watched her husband's
final hand-wave.

He walked down town and the fresh northern air set his pulses quickening. He noted how few
gray heads there were, how full everything seemed of the vitality of youth. On the piazzas
were groups of happy well-kept children, bundled up for winter play and bubbling over with
exuberance. To any passer-by they told that these were the homes of young married people. Everywhere
life looked sweet and normal and vigorous. And he knew that for miles in every direction there
were more such homes of more such people.

But when he reached the part of town whither his steps were bent, all this was reversed. Here
was dirt, if not of body, then of spirit. Here were a thousand evil influences at work. Here
was public plundering for private greed; here were wire-pullings and bargainings and selfishness
reigning supreme. And these forces were the nominal rulers of a city, the greater part of whose
life was good.

However, he was getting the ropes in his hands. These things were no longer vague generalities
floating in his mind, as rosy clouds might be backed by thunder-heads on the horizon. They
were growing definite. He began to know who were the evil-workers and how they did it. He had
the art of making friends, and he made friends among publicans and sinners as well as--well,
there weren't any saints in St. Etienne to make friends with. At any rate some of the powers
that were began to say that Dick Percival knew entirely too much. And some of the powers that
ought to be, but still slept, namely the good citizens of St. Etienne, found their slumbers
disturbed by his straight and convincing words.

But to-day all his labors seemed not worth while. There was a sour taste in his mouth. To do
the little thing with a big heart was after all nothing but a sham. His ideals, he thought,
had simmered down to petty things. He was spending his time in nosing out small evil-smelling
scandals and in running for a mean inferior office. He felt nauseated with himself. Worse,
he felt a horrible new doubt of his wife. Mrs. Appleton had been to him the type of woman he
disliked, worldly, shallow, busy with the sticks and straws; yet now there would creep in a
suspicion that some of the things he had forgiven to Lena's beauty and lack of sophistication
were close of kin to the older woman's more blatant materialism. Materialism was the thing
Dick had not learned to associate with his own women.

This radiant morning, then, he felt himself under the dominion of the grand inquisitors who
invented the torture of little things. Life consisted in having slow drops of water fall on
his head, one at a time. Family life was slimed with small bickerings, children were a nuisance,
society a bore, and the most beautiful woman in the world defiant and uninspiring at the breakfast-table.

It does not take Cleopatra long to wither the ideals.

Dick began to analyze his wife, which is a dangerous thing for a man to do. If a husband wishes
to preserve the lover's state of mind, he must continue to think of his wife as a single indivisible
creature, not a compound of faults, virtues and charms, lest in some unlucky moment he find
that the faults are the biggest ingredient.

Dick, however, was thinking, and the substance of his thoughts was that this little girl, who
bore his name, had her seamy side. Up to now, if he noticed a defect, he instantly and chivalrously
put it out of his mind, but now certain doubts had knocked so long that by sheer persistence
they forced an entrance. Lena, who began by being a sweet, innocent, much-enduring little thing,
now that he knew her more and more intimately, was less and less the creature he imagined.
To the world in general she was still the big-eyed ingenue, learning to take her place in society.
To him alone, it seemed, to him whose love and reverence she ought to have desired, she was
becoming indifferent as to the impression she made. Was the other side of her a pose? Dick
found himself walking very fast, and he slackened his pace to a respectable gait. If Lena the
lovable was a pose, then the inspiration and ideals and joy of his life were frauds. That thought
was too appalling. He deliberately stopped thinking about it and turned his thoughts to frauds
in city politics, which were easier to endure.

Lena, on the other hand, sitting idly by the window, indulged in a little reflection on her
own part. She was revolving with some bitterness her disappointment and disillusionment. She
remembered what a glorious gilded creature Dick had appeared to her at one time. Now he was
sunk to be a very ordinary young man, with curious and stupid idiosyncrasies, and not nearly
so rich and important as many of the people she came in contact with. Might she have done better
if she had waited? She too stopped regretting and turned her attention to a novel. She was
just beginning to discover the charms of "Gyp." She looked up to see Mr. Early come up the
pathway, and a moment later he stood beside her.

"Mrs. Percival," he said, "I have brought you this little vase, the first of its kind that
my artists have produced. I thought it so really beautiful that I could not resist laying one
before you as a kind of tribute."

"Oh, it is lovely. And am I really the only person in the world who has one?"

"You and Miss Elton." A pang of small jealousy shot through Lena's heart. It was always and
everywhere Miss Elton. "I sent her another, but of slightly different shape. I am, as you know,
a worshiper of beauty, but all these creations of man's hands are but parodies, are they not,
Mrs. Percival, on absolute beauty? They are like ourselves, the creatures of a day. Nature
herself, in sea and air and woodland, produces exquisite loveliness, and yet even her achievements
are dwarfed when one stands face to face with one of creation's masterpieces--a woman."

And Mr. Early made a ponderous bow as he presented his work of art. Lena was so impressed by
this compliment that she wrote it out while it was fresh in her memory, and when Dick came
home, she read it to him. He gave a great bellowing laugh that grated harshly on Lena's nerves;
and then at sight of her reproachful eyes, he drew himself together and gave her a friendly
pat on the shoulder, affectionate, to be sure, but quite different from Mr. Early's chivalrous
manner, and said:

"Thinks you better than his old straight-legged tables, does he? Well, I should say so! Serves
him right for being an old bachelor, and having nothing but furniture and Ram Juna to illuminate
existence. I should expect that combination to drive a man either to drink or to blank verse."

"I don't think it is nice of you to swear, Dick," Lena answered severely, but on the verge
of tears.

"Swear, sweetheart? Why, what do you mean?"

"Well, it's almost the same thing to talk about 'blank' verse." Dick laughed again and went
directly to the library without even noticing the extremely lovely new dress which his wife
had put on for his edification.

Dick's limitations were becoming manifest to young Mrs. Percival. He might be a gentleman,
but she feared that he would never be more. There was nothing imposing about him. He had lifted
her out of sordid want, but he would not raise her to the pinnacle of greatness. The bland
flat face of Mr. Early and his commanding slowness of movement impressed her imagination much
as a great stone image might its votary. Here was indeed the truly illustrious. She devoured
every floating newspaper paragraph that concerned Sebastian; for she was still under the dominion
of the idea that greatness in the dailies constituted greatness indeed. She would have been
proud to touch the hem of his frock-coat. How much greater her elation when, on public occasions,
he singled her out and stalked across the room to utter in loud tones, intended for the ears
of half a hundred, some well-rounded compliment. A conquest of Mr. Early would have been, for
Lena, the consummation of achievement; but she could not help seeing that his eyes turned more
frequently upon Miss Elton than upon Mrs. Percival--upon Miss Elton, of whom she felt constant
jealousy and abnormal curiosity.

Jealousy rose to its height when, on a certain afternoon, from her favorite post beside a window,
Lena watched a carriage drive up to Mr. Early's door, and Miss Elton dismount and run up the
steps. Mrs. Percival leaned forward to make sure of her eyes, and then she sat and eyed the
hole where the mouse had disappeared.

Of course she could not know what was going on inside. When Madeline received a note from Mr.
Early, asking her to come and see some very wonderful tapestries that he had just hung, it
seemed the most natural thing in the world. Sebastian's house was always more like a museum
than bachelor's quarters. He was continually turning it inside out for public inspection, so
Madeline went in all innocence, expecting to find a dozen or so of her friends sharing the
private view. She was embarrassed, but hardly seriously, as Mr. Early came forward to welcome her.

"Am I all alone?" she said with a little laugh.

"Apparently you are. But I dare say some others will drop in on us in a moment," Mr. Early
made answer. "Meanwhile I am favored, for your opinion is what I particularly want. These queer
old tapestries have been sent to me from France, but whether I keep them or not depends on
whether they seem the right thing in the right place. Will you come this way?"

The big hall had a singularly impersonal aspect. Madeline had never before seen it except when
thronged with people, and now that they two stood alone in its wide empty space, she was struck
with a certain desolation in it.

"Well?" inquired Mr. Early.

"I can't tell at once," said Madeline slowly. "Beauty is a thing that takes time to unfold
itself upon one, isn't it? But I think they are beautiful. They are certainly strange and solemn,
and they intensify the dignity of this big room; but they make it seem less homelike than ever.
They seem to me things to look at rather than to live with. I suppose their appropriateness
depends a little on what you want to make of this place. And you do want it only for a public
room, do you not, Mr. Early?"

"I am afraid that is all I am capable of," said Sebastian, looking pensively at her. "You see
the home feeling is beyond my achievement. It needs the feminine touch to create that ideal
atmosphere. That, Miss Madeline, is above art."

"It is so common, are you sure it is not below art?" Madeline smiled.

"I am sure," responded Mr. Early with conviction. "It is a subject on which I have thought
much since you came home last year. Never until then did I wholly realize the lack in my home
and in my life. If now, in all humbleness, I am consulting your taste, it is because I have
sometimes dared to hope that you, my dear lady, would one day give that final grace to this
which would make it indeed a home, instead of the mere abiding place that it is now."

Madeline turned upon him sharply.

"Mr. Early," she said, "it isn't wholly courteous in you to take advantage of my being alone
with you in your own domain to speak to me in this way."

"I beg your pardon," Sebastian answered. "It was a wholly unpremeditated expression of what
has long been an ardent desire. I did not mean to speak, but your own words seemed to break
down the barriers of my passion. I could wish that you would permit me to put it in the form
which my heart prompts; but perhaps you are right. Your fine sense of the proprieties must
be my rule of conduct. I shall only trust that I may soon find a time to speak when I shall
not offend your delicacy, and when, I pray, I may not offend your heart."

"Neither now nor at any other time should I advise you to go any further," said Madeline laughingly,
for it was hard to take the bombast of Mr. Early very seriously. He made her think now of a
sort of pouter pigeon. And Sebastian remained only partly satisfied as to the effect which
he wished to produce. He wanted to give her something to think about, and so make way for the
more impassioned wooing that he was resolved should follow. He was convinced that to stand
alone with him in the midst of his splendors would make a strong impression on the mind of
any sensible girl. The great hall was certainly a place to capture the imagination--not only
from its stately proportions and the mellow coloring that melted into shadow in the far-off
roof, but from the multitude of smaller details, the intricate carvings, gathered abroad or
made under Mr. Early's own eye, the few priceless paintings, the great jars whose exquisite
decorations blended their richer tones with the deeper shades around. In a wide alcove was
gathered a collection of portraits of distinguished men and women, statesmen, artists and literati
of this country and of Europe, and each picture was accompanied by an autograph letter to the
well-beloved Sebastian Early. It could be no small thing to contemplate the possession of this
house of notabilities and of the man who had built it up around himself. This, Mr. Early meant,
should be the artistic opening of his campaign. And Miss Elton had laughed.

There was silence for a long minute, and Madeline, glancing nervously at her host, saw that
his face was grave and that his eyes were fixed upon her in a melancholy way. She began to
feel uncomfortable.

"I think I must be going now," she said.

"You have not told me whether I am to keep the tapestries," Mr. Early humbly objected.

"Oh, I couldn't possibly decide for you. But they seem to harmonize beautifully with this room."

"I am grateful for your decision. Permit me to see you to your carriage, Miss Madeline."

Lena, watching hungrily from her vantage post, noted Mr. Early's obsequious courtesies, Madeline's
flushed face, and drew angry conclusions. Nevertheless, she leaned forward and bowed graciously
as Madeline drove past.

"If she should marry Mr. Early, I shouldn't feel as if I had triumphed a bit in getting Dick
away from her," she said to herself, with a bald comprehension of her true state of mind. For
Lena made up for her pose toward others by a certain unimaginative frankness in her self-communings.

Then, catching a glimpse of another figure, she exclaimed, "Oh, there comes Miss Huntress!"
and immediately settled herself with an air of elegant leisure to receive her former superior.
Miss Huntress was a source of continual satisfaction to Lena, the opposite of a skeleton at
the feast, a continual reminder of present prosperity as compared with past nonentity. To meet
her gave Madame Cecropia the same thrill of satisfaction that it still did to draw her dainty
skirts around her and step into her carriage, half hoping that some envious girl was viewing
her perfections as she had once eyed those of others. On the other hand, Miss Huntress derived
almost equal pleasure out of her acquaintance with Lena, whose littleness she measured, and
whose small successes she looked upon with amusement, unflecked by envy. Emily Huntress was
a plodding person, with much business on hand and an earnest necessity for earning money, and
though her canons were not over fine, still she had her standards and lived up to them. She
found Lena useful as a source of social information.

"You want to know what is going on?" inquired Mrs. Percival. "Well, of course you know it's
Lent, and there isn't anything much. But if you will come up to my boudoir, I will look over
my engagement book, and perhaps I can help you to a paragraph or two."

The word boudoir was a sweetmeat to Lena's palate, combined, as it was, with the knowledge
that her visitor, with a sister, kept house in three rooms.

So they went up stairs, and Lena babbled and preened herself, while Miss Huntress frowned and
pondered on the difficulties of making anything readable out of her small kernel of information.
The arrival of a cup of tea, Miss Huntress, being a woman as well as a reporter, found mollifying
to the hardness of life.

"I see," she said with an acid little laugh, "you have the Chatterer up here in your unholy
of unholies." Her eyes fell on a small magazine which made a speciality of besmirching the
good names of the entire country. "Everybody reads it, and everybody pretends to despise it."

"It's awfully interesting," said Lena, and she went on with a little giggle, "I think I'll
just tuck it away before my husband comes in. He doesn't approve of it, you know. Men don't
care for gossip. I think it is perfectly wonderful what an amount of scandal it gets hold of.
I don't see how they do it. And they've such a naughty way of writing it up, too."

"Nothing very remarkable. In every town of importance they have some one always on the lookout
for a promising piece of mud." Miss Huntress eyed Lena speculatively for a moment. "I'll tell
you in confidence," she went on, "and I trust you to keep mum about it, for the sake of the
times when I helped you--I write for it here. I don't exactly like it, but you know I can't
afford to despise dollars and cents. It's just plain business, after all. There's a demand
for that kind of thing and it falls to my lot to supply it."

"And did you write that awful thing about Mrs. Clarke?" cried Lena, sitting up with big blue
eyes, and gazing earnestly at Miss Huntress with, awe as an arbiter of reputations.

"Yep," replied that lady with a gulp of tea.

"Gracious!" exclaimed Mrs. Percival. "I hope you'll never send them anything about me."

"Then you'd better never do anything indiscreet," Miss Huntress laughed maliciously. "But I
don't think you would," she went on speculatively. "You're too clever and too ambitious for
that. Do you know, I've rather come to the conclusion that it's only rather simple-hearted
people who do those things. Take that Mrs. Clarke, now. Of course her husband was a brute,
and when the other man came along she fell so much in love with him that she didn't even think
of any one else in the world except their two selves. A woman who was incapable of whole-souled
passion would have kept an eye on the world and walked the narrow path of virtue."

"Why, you're defending her!" exclaimed Lena.

"Not in the least," said Miss Huntress grimly. "I helped to make her pay the price."

"Oh, well," Lena said with an air of greatness, "there are some of us who can combine the deepest
love with decent behavior you know."

"Of course," answered Miss Huntress.

"Now Miss Elton is just that other kind. I believe she never thinks what people say about her,"
Lena observed. "Not that she'd do anything out of the way, you understand."

"Certainly not." Miss Huntress began to prick up her professional ears. "She's a particular
friend of yours, isn't she?"

"Intimate," said Lena. "You know they used to say that Mr. Percival--but of course that was
before he met me, and anyway there was nothing in it."

"I know," said Miss Huntress. "I sent a line to the Chatterer once about it."

"Did you really? Well, of course, for form's sake, she has to be as nice as ever to me and
Mr. Percival. But she has reconciled herself. It's all Mr. Early now."

"You don't say!" ejaculated Miss Huntress with interest.

"She's regularly throwing herself at his head. Why only this afternoon I saw her do the most
unconventional thing."

"What was it?"

"Oh, I dare say she was just getting him to subscribe to some charity or something equally
innocent. Still, it was queer. But I know her too well to suspect her of any impropriety. She's
really the dearest, sweetest girl, Miss Huntress, and I'm the last person in the world to criticize
her."

"But aren't you going to tell me?"

"Well, she came, quite alone, you understand, to Mr. Early's this afternoon, and was closeted
there the longest time. I couldn't help wondering what it was all about. What do you suppose?"

"That was funny," meditated Miss Huntress.

"I'm certain there's some perfectly natural explanation, if we only knew it," Lena went on.
"But she looked awfully flushed when she came out."

"Thank you," said Miss Huntress. "I must be going now."

"Oh, won't you have another cup of tea? Of course, I'm on very good terms with Miss Elton,"
said Lena, fingering the tray cloth a little nervously. "I shouldn't like her to think I'd
criticized her behavior, even to you."

"You needn't be afraid," rejoined Miss Huntress. "I never let on how I get my information.
I'd lose my job if I did. Much obliged to you, Mrs. Percival. Things are so dull during Lent
that we're thankful for even a few crumbs. I guess that's your husband's step. It must be getting
late."

"Oh, good-by! Dick, you dear boy, how glad I am to see you," cried Lena, fluttering to the
door to meet her returning lord. "Miss Huntress, this is my husband. Good-by, again. Don't
you remember?" she went on, as Dick followed her back into her room. "She used to be my 'boss'
when I was a poor little slavey in the Star office, before my best beloved prince came and
rescued me from dragons and printers' devils."

"And are you so fond of her that you keep up the acquaintance?"

"Oh, I remember how hard it used to be to get 'matter'; and I don't mind helping her out a
bit when she's hard pressed."

"You are a kind-hearted little soul, Lena,"--and her husband stooped and kissed her fondly,
doing penance in his heart for his doubts of a day or two ago, thoughts cruel, unjust, unwarranted.
Lena had never looked more delectable than now, with her head on one side, pouring his tea.
She kissed each lump of sugar as she put it in and laughed at her own conceit; and she brought
the cup over to his chair and rubbed her apple blossom of a cheek against his with a little purr.

"I'm afraid you think me very silly, Dick," she laughed. "I do not seem to get a bit wiser
or better behaved, do I, for all Mrs. Appleton and Ram Juna, and even your lovely high-bred
mother? Dick, do you despise me!"

"Despise! Why I love and love you and love you all over," said Dick.

CHAPTER XVII

GRAPE-SHOT

Mrs. Quincy, in her solitary confinement, unloved and complaining, might be considered a figure
either repulsive or pathetic, according to the onlooker's point of view. Fortunately there
are always a few big enough at heart to turn towards the world a face of affection rather than
of criticism, to whom woe appeals more than vulgarity.

So, once in a while in her busy life, Mrs. Lenox found time to drop in as the bearer of a cheerful
word and a friendly look to the ugly little apartment where Mrs. Quincy lived in the third
story height of domestic felicity.

On an April afternoon she came, like a dark-eyed Flora, her hands loaded with daffodils that
might bring a glow of the beauty of spring even to an inartistic spirit. The front door stood
open, and a flat has an unrelenting way of laying bare all the skeletons that find no closet
room. Mrs. Lenox surprised a scene of domestic economy in the tiny parlor. The curtains had
been taken down for fear they would fade, and a large piece of newspaper lay where the sunlight
struck the carpet. In the middle of the room sat Mrs. Quincy, and before her on a kitchen chair
stood a little tub of foamy soap-suds. A maid was stationed at hand with a bar of soap and
a bottle of ammonia, and the steam of homely cleanliness filled the air.

"Good gracious, I declare!" ejaculated Mrs. Quincy, "if it ain't Mrs. Lenox! Come right in.
I'm just washin' out my under-flannels and my stockin's. I can't bear the slovenly ways of
servants, and it's only myself as can do 'em to suit myself. There, Sarah, you take the things
away, and I'll let you rinse 'em out this once. And mind you do it good. Be sure to use four
rinsin's. And soft water, mind. And hand me a towel to wipe off my hands. It's real good of
you to come and see a forlorn old woman, that I know can't be much pleasure to you, Mrs. Lenox.
There ain't many that takes the trouble. And yet time was when I was considered as good-lookin'
as that ungrateful daughter of mine, that I slaved for for years. Put them flowers in water,
Sarah. I guess a butter jar's the only thing I got that's big enough to hold them."

Mrs. Lenox sat down, wondering if time and life could ever transform the smooth beauty of Lena's
features to this semblance of failure which they so closely resembled. Mrs. Quincy's face was
like a grain field over which the storms had swept, changing what was its glory to a horror.

The scarlet-faced Sarah hustled tub and chair and dripping garments kitchen-ward. The visitor
took up her task of cheerfulness, and Mrs. Quincy cackled and grumbled to her heart's content.

"Lena'd be 'shamed to death if she knew you'd caught me doin' my wash," she whined. "I hope
you won't tell her. She can come down on me pretty hard sometimes, I tell you."

"Oh, I won't tell," Mrs. Lenox laughed. "I only wish you had let me help. I was thinking what
fun it must be--with a maid to hold the soap. It took me back to nursery days. I used to love
to wash dolls' clothes."

"I don't do it for fun," Mrs. Quincy snapped. "But I ain't provided with a servant that's worth
her salt. If anybody's dependent, like I am, on a whipper-snapper son-inlaw, that ain't got
affection enough for me to spend an hour a week with me--why, I guess I have to pinch and scrape
wherever I can. No knowin' when I'll git more. I've worked hard all my life for other folks,
Mrs. Lenox. You can see by my hands how I've worked. And what do I get for it? A stranger like
you is kinder to me than my own flesh and blood. And I know well enough that if Richard Percival
throws me a crust, it's only because he would be ashamed to have folks say his mother-in-law
was starving. Oh, I let him know that I see through him whenever he comes near me--which ain't
very often. And Lena goes days and days and never comes to see me." Her voice and her garrulity
were rising, but here a sob gave pause, and Mrs. Lenox rushed in, repressing an impulse to
say a word on the elementary laws of give and take in love.

"Well, I think you are very sensible to do the washing. One must have some occupation to fill
the days, mustn't one? And there aren't many things, when one is tied to the house. If to-morrow
is warm, I wonder if you would feel up to a little drive in the afternoon?"

"I shouldn't be surprised if I would."

"And do you care for reading? I've brought you a rather clever little story. I see you have
all the magazines."

"Yes, Lena sends 'em. She thinks they'll occupy me and save her the trouble of comin' herself.
But, good land, I don't care for 'em beyond lookin' at the pictures and the advertisements--except
the Ladies' Home Companion. That has good recipes in it; only Sarah can't make nothin' that's
fit to eat. But I did read that thing in the Chatterer about Miss Elton. You've seen it, of
course!"--and she laughed with cheerful malice and licked her lips like a cat.

"About Miss Elton? In the Chatterer? I haven't the least idea of what you are talking," said
Mrs. Lenox in a dazed way.

"It's over there," returned the lady, with a comprehensive wave of the thumb. "You can read
it. Lena said it couldn't be anybody else." Mrs. Lenox rose and took the magazine from the
table. She walked over to the window and deliberately turned her back on her hostess. Her hands
shook a little as she turned page after page till her eyes fell on this little paragraph.

"In a certain western city which is famous for its flour and lumber interests, there lives
a bachelor who has made it still more illustrious in the realms of art and literature. It is
a standing insult to feminine humanity that a man both famous and wealthy should remain single,
but, so far, all attacks upon the citadel of his heart have proved futile. Rumor now has it
that a capitulation is imminent, but the besieging force has been driven to unusual measures
to secure it. A college training gives a girl the advantage over her fellows, both in expedients
and in determination. Not content with the extraordinary attractions conferred on her by her
own beauty, the young lady who is ahead in the race for the gay bachelor's heart has been carrying
the war into Egypt. Gossip saith that there are quiet hours spent by these two in the seclusion
of the bachelor's stately home, when, doubtless, his masculine heart melteth within him, and
the bonds of his servitude are tightened. Still, it is a dangerous game for a supposedly reputable
girl to play, isn't it? and a little--well, let us call it unconventional."

Mrs. Lenox shut the magazine and her own teeth.

"It is inconceivable that such stuff should be printed, and that people should buy it," she
said. "But you see it is so vague that it might refer to any one at any place, and even if
we knew who was meant, it is too insignificant a piece of small malice to receive anything
but contempt. And now good-by, Mrs. Quincy. I hope these coming spring days are going to help
you to better health."

"Good-by. I always appreciate your visits," whined Mrs. Quincy. "I'm sure, with all you have
to do, I don't wonder you don't come oftener. I know there's nothin' to draw you."

Mrs. Lenox went away with a deep breath and a longing for fresh air. She shook her head at
the waiting coachman and said, "I am going to walk, Emil."

She moved along in a cloud of conjectures, not that the small paragraph seemed to her very
important, but she was a little sickened by the sudden glimpse of petty minds, who, being rich,
stay by preference in the slums.

"Mrs. Quincy, like Mrs. Percival, makes me feel that life is not a big thing to be lived for
some big reason, but an affair to be scrambled through day by day, grabbing everything you
can, and hating those who have grabbed more. What a way to worry through seventy or eighty
years!" she groaned to herself.

Almost at her own door she met Ram Juna, who turned with her to make one of his ponderous calls,
while she sat and talked with him of emptiness and philosophy, with that vivacious patience
that becomes a habit with women of the world; but when the door opened and her husband appeared,
accompanied by Dick Percival and Ellery Norris she heaved a distinct sigh of relief.

"We know that the dinner hour is looming on the horizon, and we're not going to stay," said
Dick. "But your husband has some civic reform monographs that I thought I would borrow while
he was in the lending mood."

"You needn't apologize, Dick," she laughed. "You are more than tolerated in this house."

There came a sharp noise, and Madeline Elton, with pale face and eyes big, stood in the doorway.
Every one knew that something had happened, and Mrs. Lenox, who saw the rolled magazine in
the nervous hand, guessed its purport in a flash.

"My dear girl!" she cried, running forward, "you are not going to let such a pin-prick hurt you!"

"Oh, Vera," exclaimed the girl, putting her face down on her friend's shoulder, "you know!
It does hurt. I can't help it," and she sobbed.

The three men looked on in puzzled helpless masculinity, and the Swami surveyed the scene as
the two women clung to each other.

"Vera," said Mr. Lenox, "are we permitted to know what this means?" Mrs. Lenox kept her arm
around Madeline's shoulder as she turned.

"It's only an ugly little fling in the Chatterer, Frank," she said, "and it sounds as though
it might refer to Madeline. It is nothing, but I dare say my dear girl does not enjoy a bit
of dirt even on her outer garment. And, Madeline, very likely it is not meant for you."

"Oh, yes, it is," cried the girl. "Some one sent me this marked copy. And I went there once
when I thought he had invited a crowd to see some tapestries. There was no one else there.
There is just so much truth in it."

"Would you rather that we should not see it?" asked Mr. Lenox.

"I'm afraid every one will see it," said Madeline shamefacedly, as she held out the guilty
pages. The three men leaned their heads over the table with a curiosity that would have done
credit to women, while Ram Juna still looked on.

"I have already beheld the writing," he said suavely. "Mr. Early gave way to unwonted anger
when he saw. The lady must have an enemy."

"That is it," cried Madeline, turning upon him swiftly. "I think I am not so much hurt by the
scandal--every one who knows me will believe better of me--but what cuts is that there should
be some one who wants to hurt me. I--I've always thought of the world as a friendly place.
Who is it that hates me?"

"Bah, it is a very small enemy who seeks small revenge," said the Swami, whose own heart was
filled with contempt and irritation. This was not according to his plan. "In India, we do not
so revenge."

Mr. Lenox stepped back to the fireplace, from which point a man always surveys the world at
an advantage.

"It isn't worth an extra heart-beat, Miss Elton," he said. "Ignore it and your world will promptly
forget it."

"But, Mr. Lenox, you do not understand. It is not the question of the truth or falsehood of
the story that shakes me. As you say, that is too absurd. But I shall always wonder who is
my enemy, and why."

Norris was looking at her with awakened terror. With the intuition of love, he had read the
processes of her self-conquest at the time of Dick's marriage. But here was a new possibility.
Could it be that this fair and delicate creature was now to be enwoofed by Sebastian Early,
whom at this juncture Ellery characterized to himself as a "fat toad"? He made up his mind
that it would not do to trust, as he had been doing, to time to stand his friend. He must also
bestir himself.

"I wonder," he said aloud, "I wonder if Miss Huntress knows anything about it. I have a dim
idea that some one told me that she wrote things for the Chatterer. Our society editor, you know."

"But even if she did dislike me--and I don't know her from Adam--how could she know?" said
Madeline, turning on him. "You see I was alone with Mr. Early, and I am sure, for certain reasons,"
here Ellery was horrified to see a little flush creeping over her face, "that he would not
be guilty of any attempt to besmirch me. And no one else knew that I was there--except--" A
sudden startled look came over her face and she looked involuntarily at Dick. "Except--" she
said, and her voice trailed off.

"Besides, these small acts are those of women," said the Swami placidly. Dick had caught Madeline's
look of astonished comprehension and he turned pale as he saw. Now, with Ram Juna's words,
conviction flashed upon him. He remembered Lena's dislike for Madeline, of which he had made
light; he remembered the little insignificant woman whom he had met in his wife's boudoir;
the fact that he was Mr. Early's nearest neighbor clapped assurance on suspicion, and his muddled
mind was capable of only one idea. No one else, least of all, Madeline, must suspect her little
meanness.

"Dick, you have an inkling," said Mr. Lenox abruptly, but in all innocence.

"Not in the least," said Dick hurriedly. "I assure you that if I had the slightest reason to
suspect any one, I would be the first to speak. I--you know I think everything of you, Madeline."
He went toward her in a futile way, with outstretched hand, but Madeline's eyes were down,
and apparently she did not see the friendly overture. His face looked pale, strained and old
as he stood for a moment before her, and the others surveyed them in silence.

"As you say," said Dick, in sprightly fashion, "the best thing is to forget the whole incident.
Lenox, if you will give me those papers, I must be off."

"Our lines lie parallel," said the Swami. "Will you permit that I walk with you?"

The four who remained stood awkwardly during the departure, and with the closing of the door,
Mr. Lenox gave an inarticulate ejaculation.

"Miss Elton," he said, "I think your problem is solved."

"You mean it was Mrs. Percival?"

"You are as sure as I."

"And Dick knew," said Ellery. He blushed as he spoke.

"Oh no, Mr. Norris!" cried Madeline in sharp distress. "That would he unendurable. And besides,
he said he didn't."

"Dick lied," Ellery stated calmly.

"I will never believe that Dick would lie."

"He certainly lied," Ellery persisted. "Any man would lie to protect the woman he loves."

"Never!" exploded Mrs. Lenox. "Frank, you would not lie for me!"

"Assuredly I would," her husband answered quietly, "if you needed lying for."

She looked at him with speechless dismay.

"Therefore," Ellery went on, "it behooves a man to love a woman who demands truth and not untruth
as her reasonable service. The responsibility rests with you women. You can not only make men
lie, but you can make them believe that there is no such thing as truth in the universe. Isn't
it so, Lenox?"

Mr. Lenox smiled and nodded, Jove-like.

"Oh, yes, they pull some strings," he said; "but don't cocker them up too much. Don't make
them think we are nothing but clay in their hands."

"You couldn't, because, to our sorrow, we know better," retorted his wife.

"Nevertheless, you've unsettled everything," said Madeline dejectedly.

"But, Miss Elton," Norris put in, "you must not think that I believe that a man is without
responsibility for the kind of woman he loves. That is where the first turning up or down comes
in. He's no right to give his soul to the thing that is mean or base. He has the right to choose
his road, but after he's chosen, he has to travel wherever the road leads. Dick's disintegration
began from the moment that he met Miss Quincy. I've known it for a long time."

"Poor little thing!" said Madeline. "She is so small. I hope she will grow to be something
like a mate for Dick."

"Do not flatter yourself with wishes," cried Mrs. Lenox. "There's only one soil in which the
soul can grow, and that is love. Unless I misread her, there is no room in her for anything
but Lena Quincy Percival."

"And yet," objected Ellery, "she is certainly not a person weighted with intellect. I should
say she is all impulse and emotion."

"Anomalous but by no means uncommon, Mr. Norris," she rejoined. "All emotion, yet without emotion
of the heart. In her little world, self lies at the equator, and every one else is pushed off
to the frozen poles."

The others looked at her doubtfully.

"Don't you think I have studied her? She has been a bald revelation to me of things I have
only half understood in better-bred women. She's like a weed transplanted from her lean ground
to a garden and grown more luxuriant in her weediness. Do you know what I think? I believe
that when the last judgment shall strip her of her sweet pink flesh, there will be nothing
found inside but a little dry kernel, too hard to bite, and labeled 'self'."

"You are positively vicious, Vera," said her husband gravely.

The tears came to her eyes as she turned to him.

"I really loved Dick, and she has stung him."

"But all this does not explain her hatred for Madeline."

"Do you not understand that even petty people can see how dreary and stupid their lives are
when a person like Madeline comes along? So they hate her."

"It's good of you to consider my feelings how they grow, and to try to bolster them up," Madeline
smiled. "But I am fearfully tired. I must go home. I hope that my father and mother will never
hear of this."

"Why should they?" said Mr. Lenox. "It's only a trifle after all, though, to be true to her
nature, Vera must needs philosophize about it. It's only a trifle."

"Except for Dick," Ellery exploded.

"Except for Dick," Mr. Lenox echoed.

"It's a great pity," Mrs. Lenox meditated, "that Dick can't knock her down and then they could
start again on a proper basis."

"It is a disadvantage to be a gentleman," laughed her husband.

"Vera," said Madeline impulsively, "you won't let this make any difference between us and Mrs.
Percival? If she is a little twisted, poor child, she has had a cruel training; and she needs
decent women all the more. I--I really have quite got over my anger with her--and don't let
us lose Dick. Dick is like my brother. I mustn't break with him. We must all be good to him."

"I do not know that I feel any large philanthropy," answered Mrs. Lenox, with something between
a laugh and a wry face. "But as I have invited them as well as you to spend Easter with us
in the country, I suppose the ordinary laws of society will require me to behave myself." The
older woman kissed Madeline warmly, and Ellery moved out with her. He had so entirely made
up his mind to walk home with her that he quite forgot to ask her permission.

He began to talk to her about himself, for almost the first time in his reticent intimacy,
and she forgot her own affairs, as he meant she should, in listening.

Afterward she could not remember his words because parallel with them she was reading her own
interpretation. Already in a vague way she understood him, but his little story gave her the
crystallized impression.

She had a picture of a lonely childhood, fatherless and motherless and pervaded with a longing
for love that early learned to keep silence. That had been the first step in his self-possession.
Education had been hard to get, and yet he had got what to the sons of rich men comes easily,
and because to him it meant struggle, it had been the more treasured. Knowledge came hard because
his mind worked slowly and painfully; therefore his grip was the tighter, and the habits of
thought wrought out by exercise were now giving him a facility that cleverer men might envy.
He could not know how the simple history gave her an impression of slow irresistible manhood,
always, without drifting, moving toward its chosen end.

When they halted at her door, she had a feeling that she could not let him go, just yet.

"You'll come in and dine with us, will you not?" she asked impulsively.

"I wish I might," he answered with that longing tone one falls into when surveying an impossible
and alluring temptation. "I simply have to work to-night. I'm already late for my engagement.
May I come sometime soon?"

"I wish you would. Father is really very fond of you," she went on, defending her warmth. "He
likes young men. He has a sneaking longing for them that no mere girl satisfies. Dick used
to be a great deal to him, but--Dick has drifted away. You have not been to see us for a long
time."

"Not since the day that Dick's engagement was announced," he answered, looking her boldly in
the face. "I couldn't. You made me feel then that you despised me."

"I despised you?" she spoke with bland innocence but rising color.

"Yes."

Madeline hesitated and looked down. She was scarlet.

"I'm not going to pretend to misunderstand you," she said, and turned laughing eyes toward
him. "I knew all the time that it was Dick who had done some shabby thing, and you were trying
to shield him."

"You knew?"

"Of course I knew."

"But you told me I ought to get a mask," Ellery fumbled.

"I meant when you try to tell lies. You don't do it with the grace and conviction of an accomplished
hand. Pooh, I can read you like an open book."

"I am very glad you can," he said deliberately. "I thank God you can, because on every page
you will read the truth--that I love you--I love you. I'm wanting you to read it in your own
way, but some time I am going to let the passion of it loosen this slow tongue of mine and
tell you in my own fashion how much it is."

He turned and strode abruptly away. Madeline went in to the firelight of home.

"Why, you look as bright as though you'd heard good news," exclaimed Mr. Elton, peering over
his newspaper in welcome.

"Do I, father?" Madeline stooped to rub her cheek softly against his and laughed to herself.
"Why, I believe I have. That shows what a whirligig I am. I went out thinking life was a tragedy,
and I come back thinking it--"

"What, little girl?"

"A divine comedy," said Madeline and laughed again. "Just see what a walk in the open air will
do for a body."

CHAPTER XVIII

EASTER

Easter came late in April, when, to match man's mood, it should come; for the world was alive
with new vitality. The south winds were infusing their wonder-working heats, and the bluebirds
flashing their streaks of color through branches that felt the stir of sap, amid buds that
strained to burst. There was the smell of growth where bits of "secret greenness" hid behind
the dead leaves of last fall.

On Saturday evening Mrs. Lenox welcomed the same circle that had met at her home the November
before, and Lena's little heart glowed with the soul-satisfying sense of the difference to
her. Then she had been a social waif, received on sufferance. Now she was one of them. She
could even afford to have her own opinions. The very memory of past discomforts doubled the
present blessedness, and Mr. Lenox looked only half the size that he had six months before.
It was a long stride to have taken in half a year, and with reason she congratulated herself
on her cleverness. In Mr. Lenox's gravity of manner as he took her in to dinner, she perceived
only respect for Mrs. Percival, not knowing that he had in mind the small episode of the Chatterer,
which his wife and Miss Elton had agreed to ignore.

"What very sensible people we are!" exclaimed Mrs. Lenox as she surveyed her small table party.
"We shall spend to-morrow in hunting for anemones instead of looking at our neighbors' spring
fineries; we shall catch the first robin at his love song, instead of listening to the cut
and dried, much-practised church music; and we shall find rest to our souls. Dick, I am sure
you need it. You look worn out. I'm afraid politics is proving a hard mistress."

"I wonder if it is possible to do too much," said Dick, rousing himself, with manifest languor.
"It's only the way he does it that plays a man out. Here's Ellery, now, who works like a galley
slave and looks as fresh as the proverbial daisy."

"Well, come, you are criticizing yourself even more severely," Mr. Lenox said. "You'll have
to learn the secret, Dick, of letting your arms and legs and brain work for you, while your
inner man remains at peace. That's the only way an American man can live in these hustling
days; and if you don't master it, the young men will come in and carry you out by the time
that you are fifty."

"And there are worse things than that," rejoined Dick. "I suppose it is the universal experience
that when one gets out of the freedom of extreme youth and settles down to the jog-trot, harnessed
life, the way looks rather long and monotonous. A fellow can't help feeling tired to think
how tired he'll be before he gets to the end. To-night I feel as old and dry as a mummy. If
you touch me, I'll crumble."

"Mrs. Lenox and I have been longer in the game than you, Dick," answered his host whimsically.
"We are getting dangerously near the equator; and we do not find ourselves exhausted. On the
contrary, I rather think the scenery improves, in some respects, as we go along."

"You are hardly capable of measuring the common fate. You have had the touchstone of success,
and the world has opened up before you. But what depress me and impress me are the sodden people
whom I meet by the hundred; and I can't help reading my fate in the light of theirs. There
are such millions of us, obscure and uncounted except on the census."

"If you will persist in talking serious things," said Ellery, "isn't obscurity, after all,
an internal and not an external quality? You've got to believe that you are a creature that
is worth while. There is no bitterness in belonging to the myriads if the myriads are themselves
dignified by nature."

"But are they?" cried Dick, now rousing himself. "I look at every face I pass on the street.
I'm always on the search for some ideal quality; and what do I see? Egotism and greed answer
me from all their eyes. The ninety and nine have gone astray."

"Then it belongs to you to be the hundredth who does not go astray; and who gives a satisfactory
answer to the same eternal questioning that meets you in the eyes of other men. It's not given
to any man to play a neutral part in the world conflict. In all the magnificent interplay of
forces, I doubt if there is any force strong enough to keep one standing still."

"Yes, my dear Ellery. And it is just that eternal motion that I am complaining about. It is
burdensome to the flesh and wearisome to the imagination to look forward to a future of eternal
rushing and striving. I have a multitude of experiences every year, and I straightway forget
them; and that deepens the impression that all these little affairs of ours, about which we
make such an infernal racket at the time, are matters of very small importance in the march
of the centuries. The march of the centuries may be majestic, but the waddle of this little
ant of a man is not. It's insignificant."

"That's a dangerous state of mind to be in, Dick," said Lenox.

"And after all, you can't help being a very important thing to yourself," said Madeline. "And
it must be of eternal significance to you whether your soul is walking with the centuries or
against them."

"My dear Madeline," answered Dick, "when I am with you and such as you who live on a little
remote mountain, eternity seems a very important matter; but when I am with most people, next
Wednesday, when taxes are due, looms up and shuts out eternity. And you will permit me to think
that you women who are sheltered and who sit with the good things of life heaped about you,
don't know very much about practical conditions."

"But why isn't my conscience as practical as my clothes?" persisted Madeline. "And why is the
fortune made to-day in Montana mines and lost to-morrow in Wall Street any more practical than
this same majestic march of the centuries and the great thoughts that circle about it? 'Practical'
is such a foolish word, Dick."

"Undoubtedly, to you," said Dick with a little sneer. "But to most of the race to which we
have the honor to belong it is the word that makes the dictionary heavy. It is because you
do not know its meaning that you women, or perhaps I ought to use the despised term, 'ladies,'
become the very beautiful and useless articles that you are--works of art, which may thrill
and charm a man for a moment, when he has time to look at them, but which bear little relation
to the stress of life which you can not comprehend."

"Dick!" Madeline spoke almost with tears in her eyes. "It is not like you to have a fling at
women."

"You see I'm gathering wisdom as I go along."

"Gathering idiocy, you mean," interposed Mr. Lenox. "Dick, you young fool, the ideal woman
is the goal toward which the rest of humanity must run; and the sooner you bend all your practical
faculties in that direction, and there abase the knee, the better for you."

He nodded down the table toward his wife, and she pursed up her lips and said, "You nice goose!
That's the way to keep us sweet-tempered."

"I hope you're not going to turn cynic, Dick," said Ellery. "The rôle does not fit you."

"A cynic," interposed Mrs. Lenox, "always thinks that he has discovered the sourness of the
world. In reality all he has found is his own bad digestion. I should hate to think there was
anything on my table to cause acute indigestion, Dick."

"Perhaps there is a cog loose in his brain so that his wheels do not work together," added Ellery.

"At any rate, cynicism is self-confessed failure; so don't give way to it," Mr. Lenox concluded.

"Oh, I give up. Spare me," cried Dick.

Mrs. Lenox rose with a little nod, and as Madeline swept past him towards the door, Dick turned
for an instant and stopped her laughingly.

"Forgive me," he said. "I did not mean it. I felt like saying something obnoxious."

"But you always used to want to be nice, Dick," she answered.

"Miss Elton," Mrs. Percival spoke severely, as a matron to a heedless girl, "perhaps the gentlemen
would prefer to have their smoke alone. Are you coming to the drawing-room with us?"

Later, much later, Lena, in the privacy of her own room, awaited the coming of her husband
who seemed to her to prolong outrageously the game of billiards which made his excuse for sitting
up a little longer than herself. She shook out her fluff of hair, and arrayed herself in a
bewildering pink dressing-gown from beneath which she toasted some very pink toes before the
fire. She knew what arguments told on the masculine intellect. And at last Dick came.

"Sit down over there," she commanded. "No, you shan't come near me, Dick, until I've said my
say. I'm really much displeased, and you need not act as though you thought it was a trifling
matter."

Dick sat humbly in the spot appointed.

"Dick, I don't want you to say any more horrid little things about women. You've done it several
times lately. The other day you said something to Mr. Early about his 'glorious freedom'; and
you made a sneering remark to Mr. Preston about women's small dishonesties."

"Only jokes, I assure you."

"Everybody knows that women are a great deal better than men."

"They must be," said Dick. "Literature is full of statements to that effect."

"And marriage is far more desirable than 'glorious freedom'."

"It is," answered Dick. "So long as there are things to disagree about, marriage will not lose
its savor."

"You say that in a perfectly mean way, as though you did not really believe anything nice.
But whether you believe it or not, I am going to ask you not to talk so any more," Mrs. Percival
went on with dignity, "because it sounds exactly like a criticism of me, and I think you owe
it to me to treat me with respect. What must people think of me when you fling in--what do
you call them--innuendoes like that around?"

Mr. Percival looked at his wife in silence; then he picked her up, chair and all, and whirled
her around in front of a long pier glass.

"Do you see that?" he demanded.

Lena saw and dimpled.

"Now I propose," Dick went on, "to carry you down stairs, just as you are! I shall then arouse
the whole household by my shouts and gather them around you; and when every man jack of them
is there, I shall say 'Ladies and gentlemen, is it possible for a man whose wife looks like
this to utter any serious accusation against femininity?'"

"Dick, don't be silly," said Lena, pouting with pleasure, and she glanced again at herself
in the glass. "I am nice, am I not?"

"Nice!" ejaculated Dick, "Huyler and Maillard and Whitman and Lowney, all rolled into one big
candy man, never dreamed of anything so sweet. Did you really think I was disrespectful? Why,
little Lena!"

Easter morning dawned, a God-given splendor of blue and spring softness, and the six stood,
after breakfast, on the veranda and looked at the day.

"Time and the world are before you. Choose how you will spend the forenoon," said Mrs. Lenox.

"I should like to drive," Lena promptly replied. "Mr. Lenox was telling me last night about
his new pair of horses. I know he is pining to show them off."

She cast one of her most fascinating glances at her unmoved host.

"Just the thing. How shall we divide up?" And Mrs. Lenox looked vaguely around.

"Miss Elton and I," said Norris boldly, "are going to row, just as we used last summer."

Madeline glanced sidewise at him with some astonishment, as he made this radical statement,
but although she pondered a moment, she offered no objection. Dick also glanced at him longingly
as he said "last summer". Our lives seem made of little bits that have small relation with
each other. Things just happen. And yet, when we look back over a long stretch we realize that
life is a coherent whole, that it leads somewhere, and Dick's life had led a long way in the
past year. So he too became grave but said nothing, as he resigned himself to a back seat beside
Mrs. Lenox and watched Lena perched airily beside her host.

"Now I hope that matter will be amicably settled," Mrs. Lenox began, looking with a satisfied
air at the two unmarried people who were starting toward the boat-house.

"What!" Dick exclaimed with a sudden start.

"Are you a bat that you can not see daylight facts?" she cried, turning upon him.

"I dare say I am." And he looked very sober. "Yes, I suppose it is all right. Norris is one
of those fellows who always knows what he wants, and just plods along until he gets it."

                 *       *       *       *       *

"I said 'row'," Ellery remarked as he pushed the boat out from shore, "but I meant 'loaf and
invite the soul'. The sunlight is too delectable for anything strenuous."

"But inviting the soul is always a solitary experience," objected Madeline.

"Perhaps. But it is delightful to know that there is a sister soul also inviting herself close
at hand. I hope yours will accept the invitation. 'At home--the soul of Mr. Ellery Norris,
to meet the soul of Miss Madeline Elton'."

A soft flush rose over Madeline's face and she devoted herself to the tiller ropes.

"P.S. Please come," Ellery went on with a laugh. "R.S.V.P."

"Aren't you 'flouting old ends'?" she smiled.

"I hoped I was flouting new beginnings," he answered soberly, and he rowed languidly in a silence
which Madeline rushed to fill.

"I've been thinking ever since last night about Dick," she said. "He is so different from the
buoyant creature of last summer. And it is only a year."

"Well, perhaps this is a phase." He rested on his oars and looked at her. "Dick is healthy,
and joy is his normal state. He ought to be able to recover from his malady."

"Sometimes I think it is permanent."

"I am almost afraid, too. But you see you can not get any bargains in the department store
of this world. You have to pay full price for everything. If you want self-indulgence, you
have to pay your health; if you want health, you have to pay self-control. You never pay less
than the value of what you get, and you are often horribly over-charged for a very inferior
article. Now Dick wanted Lena Quincy. He bought a little gratification, and paid--"

"What?"

"Everything he had," answered Norris abruptly. "Do you think I have not watched his courage
and ideals wither as if they had been frosted? He is numb. 'Heavy as frost,' Wordsworth said,
and that's the weightiest figure he could find. It did not take her a month to begin to change
him. In three months she has him well started. Isn't it a pity that the worse one of the two
should have the controlling force? But Dick's very volatility that we love has laid him open
to this thing."

"I'm glad," said Madeline slowly, "that he has his political interest."

"Yes, he's going into it with a kind of fury."

"Won't that give him a big outlet?"

"He may get a lot of satisfaction and do a really creditable thing."

"Your tone does not sound very hopeful."

"A single interest in life may accomplish more for the world, but I don't believe it is very
satisfactory for one's self."

Madeline looked at him inquiringly.

"God gives us of His own creative power," he said reverently, and there came into his very
practical face that dreamy look which she had seen there once or twice before. "He supplies
us with the raw materials of the universe, gold and beauty and food and desire--and love--and
He bids us out of these things to build a man. We can't build a successful man if we use only
one ingredient. We get a complete man only when we use them all."

Madeline stared off across the waters, and Ellery watched her over shipped oars. At last he
said, "But are you going to think only of Dick, and Dick, and Dick for ever?"

She turned on him a face flushed but utterly frank.

"I know what you are thinking," she said. "But you are mistaken, quite mistaken." And she met
his eyes squarely in spite of her heightened color. "At this very moment I was thinking more
of you than of him," she added.

"And what of me?"

"I was thinking how I misread you at first. I thought you a kind of grub."

"And now?"

"That you are dogged and persistent; and that therefore you stick to your ideals better than he."

"Do you know how comparatively easy that is, even for a plodder, when his ideals are set up
before him in visible form, so that he can not forget them by day or by night? I wonder if
you can realize what it means to have a face like yours looking up from every dirty strip of
galley-proof, and a voice like yours sounding under the rumble of the big presses. It's something
of a possession for an every-day man." A soft glow that might have been a trick of the spring
sun spread over Madeline's face. There is no thought more intoxicating to a girl than to feel
that she stands to a man for his ideals. A long sweet silence fell between them, while she
mused on this thing, and he watched her in tense anxiety.

"Madeline!" he cried, suddenly leaning forward and catching her hands. "I must tell you! You
must know, and I must know!"

With the grasp of his fingers, the first physical touch of love, an electric pang seemed to
leap through the girl's body; and in the flash were shown to her new heights and depths in
herself, and a thousand dim things in the future. She felt, in the man, the revelation of that
mystery by which the body's passion slips into passion of the soul--that soul-love, which by
its very nature can never know lassitude nor revulsion. And what was actual in him, grew radiant
with possibility in herself.

She looked up to meet his eager face and his eyes like lamps. "No, no!" she cried. "Don't tell me."

"But do you know without telling?"

"I must think."

"But surely you must have read it long ago."

"I only glanced at it. I never looked it in the face."

"Don't examine it too closely now, or I'm afraid you will find it a poor thing," he said whimsically.
"Take it on impulse, Madeline."

But she waved him away with her hand, turning her face to one side, and leaned back in her
cushions, while Ellery waited, hardly breathing. There was a deep hush on the opal waters under
the April morning sky, and no sound but the far-off note of a wood-thrush.

"Madeline!" he cried at last. "Be merciful, and speak to me."

She gathered her self-possession and turned to face him with smiles and dimples, and one swift
look full in the face.

"Mr. Norris," she said airily, and then laughed as his face fell at the title, "we are in the
middle of a big sheet of water, and I do not want you to upset the boat; we are visible from
many miles of shore, and the world and his wife are driving and motoring on this most beautiful
of days; but over on our right there is a lovely little beach, and a clump of willows that
have forced the season a bit. Perhaps, if we went there, I might listen to what you have to say."

"Oh, Madeline, my Madeline," he said, "I can never tell you because the words are not made
that will hold it, and it will take a lifetime to tell it all. But, if you are willing, we
will make a beginning over there by the dipping willows." He shot a stormy glance at her as
he caught the oars, and she met it bravely. "Please don't trail your fingers in the water,"
he said. "You are delaying the progress of the boat."

"Heaven forbid delay!" she cried in mock horror, and showered him with the drops from her lifted
hand.

The keel grated, and Ellery sprang ashore and held out his arms to help her.

"Madeline," he said, sternly holding her at arm's length, "this spot is so evidently created
for a lovers' bower, that I suspect you of having had your eye on it for a long time. How did
you come to direct me here?"

"Instinct," she laughed. "That wonderful instinct of woman."

"Shall we stay here for ever and let the world wag?"

"And live on locusts and wild honey?" she asked.

"Yes, if you will be my wild honey. I'm going to begin to devour you right away." And he caught
her at last.

"Who gave you permission?" she whispered with cheek close to his.

"Who? Haven't you heard the universe shouting aloud? The sky, and the sun and the lake and
the woods. They've been crying 'Mine! Mine! Mine!' for the last ten minutes. You'll never contradict
them, sweetheart?"

"Never," said she.

For a long moment they looked into each other's eyes, and she read in his that mastery without
tyranny which for some inexplicable reason sets a woman's heart beating with unimagined bliss.

Ten minutes later, or so it seemed, Madeline pulled his watch from his pocket and started in
dismay.

"Ellery," she cried, "do you know that we have been sitting here for four hours? What will
Mrs. Lenox and all the others think?"

"Who cares what they think? Let them think the truth, if their imaginations can soar to that
height."

"We must hurry back."

"Don't you think it is a little brutal to invite a man to leave Heaven and go back to earth?"

"Perhaps we need a dose of the world. Medicine is good for one."

"Not unless he is ill; and I was never well till now."

"Come, Ellery, we really must go," she said with severity.

"Well, there's lunch," he meditated. "I confess that I can view the prospect of luncheon with
something like equanimity. There are certain advantages about the world, Madeline."

It was long after the driving party had returned when Miss Elton and Mr. Norris strolled up
the path from the boat-house, quite indifferent to the fact of their lateness. Dick on the
piazza watched their coming and needed no handwriting on the wall. The girl glowed and Ellery
reflected her light.

"It would be a perfect woman who should unite her spirit with Lena's soul-delighting body,"
Percival said to himself. "And Ellery chooses the spirit, and I, God help me, love and choose
the body. But I can not bear to meet them."

He was turning to slip away when he met his wife face to face, and stopped half in curiosity
to see what she would notice and hear what she would say. Lena, too, gazed at the oblivious
advancing pair.

"Well, of all things!" exclaimed Mrs. Percival. "I should think she'd feel pretty cheap."

"Why?" asked Dick, startled.

"Coming down to a nobody like that!" Lena retorted in scorn. "But I think she has been going
off in her looks lately, and I dare say she knows it, and is glad to get even him."

The billiard room was empty, and Dick went in and shut the door.

CHAPTER XIX

ORIENTAL RUBIES

As the months drifted into summer, young Mrs. Percival often felt very dull. She had not even
the excitement of envy left her for, with the engagement of Miss Elton and Mr. Norris, much
of her old enmity for Madeline faded. Ellery looked to her like a fate so inferior to her own
that she could afford to drop her jealousy; and since Mr. Early and Dick were now wholly released
from thrall, she considered Madeline a creature too inoffensive to be reckoned an enemy. She
could even share the tolerant and amused pleasure with which the world surveys a love match.
This pair was so evidently and rapturously content that they diffused their own atmosphere.
Lena could not understand that variety of love, but its presence was patent to her.

Most of the "real people" as Mrs. Appleton called them, in improvement on their Maker's classification,
were leaving town either for the lake or for some more distant breathing place, but she was
tied at home, first because Mrs. Percival the elder, whom Dick refused to desert, preferred
the wide quiet of her rooms, and second because Dick himself grew daily more absorbed in his
political labors.

Lena went to say good-by for the summer to Mrs. Appleton and was bidden to come up stairs to
a disordered little room where that matron superintended a flushed maid busy with packing.

"I am really quite played out with all this turmoil," Mrs. Appleton sighed. "Truly, dear Mrs.
Percival, I think you are to be congratulated on staying at home. The game is not worth the
candle."

"I think, if Madame is tired, I could finish alone." Marie lifted a face that manifested hope
from the bottom of a trunk, but Madame shook her head. It was one of her principles to see
to everything herself and so gain the proud consciousness of utter exhaustion in doing her duty.

Lena glanced enviously about the heaped up gowns and lacy lingerie. It made her own stock seem
mean.

"Perhaps it will amuse you to look these over while I am busy," Mrs. Appleton went on good-humoredly,
pushing a leather-bound case across the table toward Lena's arm. Mrs. Percival lifted out one
little tray after another with growing sullenness. The profusion of jewels gave her no pleasure.
She slammed the trays back in place.

"Did Mr. Appleton give you all of these?" she demanded.

"Yes. Isn't he generous? But he says that my type of beauty is one that can stand lavish decoration."

"He's certainly more free than Dick," Lena said with bald envy, reviewing her own small store
that a few short months ago had seemed to her like the wealth of Ormus and of Ind.

"My dear," Mrs. Appleton exclaimed with a self-conscious laugh, "you can hardly expect Dick
Percival to rival Humphrey."

Mrs. Percival felt bitterly her friend's loftiness of position. It was of course impossible
for a woman to feel superior to what she owns and Mrs. Appleton owned more and always would
own more than Lena Percival. "Do you know, my love," Mrs. Appleton pursued, "I think your husband
is making a great mistake in going in for petty politics. With his pull, and his fair amount
of capital to start with, he ought to be able to make a fortune. He's just throwing his life away."

"Don't you suppose I know it?" Lena cried tearfully. "I've told him so a hundred times. He's
just crazy over these nasty little things. He's willing to sacrifice anything to get the place
of ward alderman away from some miserable Swede. Think of me tied in town all summer!"

"I wouldn't stand it," Mrs. Appleton answered absently, her eyes on Marie, stuffing tissue
paper in a sleeve. "A woman has such influence on her husband. Take matters in your own hands,
my dear."

Lena, rebellious at heart, found her only diversion in occasional week-ends at other people's
country houses, or in long flights by evening in Dick's motor. Her husband was self-absorbed
and often silent, another person, as she frequently and querulously rubbed into him, from the
ardent creature of a few months before.

Sometimes he made attempts to open to her his subjects of thought, but Lena never attempted
to understand things that did not interest her, and now that she was safely married, it was
too much trouble to make much pretense at it; so she was often alone, and frequently bored.

Even Mr. Early was away most of the time, and the great blank eyes of closed windows blinked
down at her from his closed house beyond the dividing hedge that flanked the garden. His place
stood on a corner, and on the two sides that fronted the streets, Sebastian had hidden the
wonders of his terraces and trimmed trees by high walls, but toward the Percivals he had been
less exclusive. Most of the houses in St. Etienne, like their own, had no property dividing
line, but lawn melted into lawn with a park-like openness that hinted at communistic kindliness.
This had its disadvantages in lack of privacy, and hence it was that in spite of quite an extensive
demesne, Lena found in her own garden no spot absolutely hidden from curious eyes of passers,
except in one thicket of trees and shrubbery over near the Early boundary. Here there was seclusion,
and here, therefore, young Mrs. Percival had her hammock and her group of chairs and tables;
and here she spent long indolent afternoons in sleepy reading and sleepier dreaming, which
was only less agreeable than the social triumphs of which she dreamed. And yet she often found
herself weary of nothing, and wished she had some one exactly to her taste to keep her company
and talk to her about little things in that "fool's paradise of laziness" where, it is said,
Satan is entertainer in chief. Once in a while, on his brief home-stays, Mr. Early illuminated
her retreat with his presence.

Toward the middle of the summer, certain business interests called Dick to North Dakota, and
then life was duller than ever.

Therefore it was a not wholly unwelcome diversion when, late on an August afternoon, she saw
the thick laurels of the hedge near her part a little and the form of Ram Juna stand in the
cleft, snowy white from turban to slippers save for the gleaming ruby and the polished bronze
face. He looked like the day itself, glowing, sultry, indolent.

"Pardon me, dear lady," he said, "that through the bush I spied you. I was solitary. You are
solitary. The heat suits not with the severer thought. The weak body refuses to yield to the
commands of mind. I fail to write; and perhaps you fail to read."

"I guess your thinking is harder work than my reading. Won't you come over and sit down?" said
Lena cordially.

"Then you, like me, would welcome companionship?"

"Yes. Isn't this a nice shady place?" Lena answered. "The maid is just bringing me some iced
drinks, and I dare say they'll taste good to you if you have been trying to write that wonderful
book of yours in all this blaze."

The Hindu pushed the hedge still farther asunder and swept with a sigh of content over to a
cushioned reclining chair.

"If one's heart were set on the things that fade, what greater satisfaction? Shadow, deep shadow
from the heat, cool drafts, the voice of a fair woman."

"You must not count me among the things that fade, though," laughed Lena, as she handed him
a tall glass of clinking fragrance. "I shan't like you a bit if you do."

"Everything fades, the rose, the lady, even thought, which is after all but a grub on the tree
of truth. All, all fade."

"I wish you wouldn't talk that way," objected Lena. "You make me feel quite creepy."

"Ah," said Ram Juna, "you love the things of to-day. To me the thought that all is transitory
is bliss. Is it not so?"

"Yes," said Lena, "I'm sure I like roses and jewels and iced minty stuff to drink. And Ram
Juna, I wish you would tell me the really-truly history of your ruby. I've heard so many stories
about it." He put up his hand, detached the great jewel from its place and laid it in her small
outstretched palm.

"That is a mark of my confiding," he said. "There are few to whom I would give to handle my
treasure. It may truly be called a stone of blood. Such angry storms of greed and passion,
such murders of father by son and husband by wife link their story to it. And now it rests
at last on the head of a man of peace. For how long? For how long?" Lena looked at it with
the eyes of fascination as it lay in her open hand.

"It charms you like a serpent?" asked her companion, leaning forward with indolent amusement.
"You are true woman. You love the glitter. Would you like to see others?"

"Have you others?" cried Lena. "Oh--oh, I should like to see them!" He rose, made her a salaam
of grace, parted the hedge once more and disappeared only to return bringing in his hands a
curious box of carven ivory, which he set on the table between them and proceeded to unlock
with a key of quaint device.

Lena gave a cry of rapture and astonishment as the lid fell back. Ram Juna laid his hand on
her arm.

"Silence!" he commanded, "would it be well that the flippant public who pass near at hand on
the pavement should know that there are such treasures in this thicket?"

"I did not know that there was so much splendor in the world," whispered Lena in admiration.

"Rubies--all rubies! They were the stones beloved of my ancestors. This dangled once on the
neck of a maha-ranee, more beautiful than itself, only, unfortunately, she lost her neck, murdered
by a rival queen."

He twisted the string of gems about her arm, bare to the elbow, and Lena gasped with pleasure.

"Let me add this bracelet--a serpent. See of curious carved gold the scales, and the eyes again
two wicked rubies to beguile men's souls. Yet it becomes the arm, does it not? Look, at your
pleasure, at the rest of the box."

He pushed the case toward her and Lena began to finger its profuse contents with occasional
sighs of envious delight and glances at her white flesh enhanced by its ornaments. Ram Juna
sat in silence.

"How do you dare to carry such things around with you?" she asked.

"Not much longer," he answered with a shrug. "To me they are delusions inappropriate. I see
that is your thought. Is it not so? What have I to do with necklaces and rings of princesses?
I had forgotten that I had them, until a chance thought recalled it. I had long since meant
to sell them and give the money to the great cause for which I labor. That is my treasure,
is it not? I shall never take them back to India. I must hasten to get rid of them, for I purpose
to return there at once."

"Why, are you going away?"

"To-morrow I leave this city. My work here is done. It is the last of work. Hereafter I shall
find some solitary spot and end my life in meditations. And the rubies--I might give them away;
but perhaps the trifle I should receive for them would help the Brothers in their service.
I shall not expect or wish their value."

"Oh, I wish I might buy some of them!"

"Why not? No lady could wear them with greater dignity. Young, beautiful, beloved, and clothed
with jewels. It is the frame for the picture, Madame."

"Oh!" said Lena.

"To you, whom I reverence, they should cost but a trifle."

"How much?" gasped Lena.

"The necklace, now," said Ram Juna, and he leaned over and twisted it about her arm as he seemed
to hesitate, "I would give you that for five thousand dollars--and you can see that it is worth--ah,
I know not how many times that sum. I do not understand these things."

"But my husband is away, and I have not any thing like that sum. Besides, I could not buy it
without asking him, you know. Oh, I should like it!"

"Bah, it is a trifle to a lady in your position. You could in many ways raise so paltry an
amount. I can not, unfortunately, give you time to deliberate." He was speaking very rapidly
with many gestures, quite unlike his usual calm. "I tell you I return to India without delay.
If you would wish those beautiful things you must hasten--to-day. Any person, I think, would
lend you such money. Mr. Early--ah, yes--Mr. Early."

"Mr. Early is away, isn't he?"

Lena was growing confused. She turned the glittering string around and around on her arm, and
her heart was big with foolish longing. The necklace seemed the only thing in life worth while.
Ram Juna's quick movements and urgent words quite took away her powers of reasoning.

"Mr. Early? Yes. He returned this morning. Shall I tell you a great secret, Madame? A man loves
the one for whom he does a favor. Would it not be wise to let Mr. Early do this thing for you?
I know he will lend you without question. It will hereafter bind him to you. See. I make the
arrangements with him myself. Ladies know nothing of business, and I not much. But I talk with
him, he understands, and I make all smooth. Will you? Shall I? Yes or no? Do not lose such
a treasure by hesitancy. Your husband shall thank you when he comes again. Yes? See the sunlight
comes through the trees and makes the rubies like itself."

"Oh, if Mr. Early would," said Lena. "I don't see why I shouldn't. And if Mr. Percival thinks
I can't afford it, the rubies are worth more than I paid for them anyway."

"You are reasonable. Hold it. I trust you while I go to see Mr. Early, and return. The necklace
is yours, beautiful lady."

Ram Juna was awakened from his usual serenity and full of tiger-like restlessness. Again he
plunged through the hedge, and Lena saw the white turban flying toward the house. Even Mr.
Early looked around startled as his usually torpid guest burst into the little den.

"Hello!" he said. "What's up?"

"Early, I bring you opportunity, the greatest of gifts. The favor I shall confer, is it less
than the favor I have received from you?"

"What do you mean?" asked Sebastian.

"Once you say that you will give much to get the young Percival in your power."

"Yes. What of it?"

"It is done."

A look of real interest began to illuminate Mr. Early's face. "Well?" he said sharply.

"I have rubies--rubies to lure the heart of a woman from her bosom. Madame, the young wife
would give her soul--if she but had one. That is too hard. Let her give her note." The Swami
laughed gently. "You would lend her five thousand dollars, my friend, to buy rubies from me.
That is an empty show. She gives you the note. I give her the necklace that she must have.
That is all. There is no need to give me money. I return your hospitality thus."

"Well, suppose I did all this. Dick Percival could easily discharge his wife's debt."

"Not so fast. Not so fast. The young wife is a fool as well as a knave. To the note she shall
sign her husband's name. That I will bring to pass. But you know nothing of this. Of course
not. You suppose that the signature is genuine. You are unaware that Percival is out of town.
And I--if I am guilty--I am with my guilty knowledge in the hut in the mountains of India.
Do you not think that while you hold that note young Percival will gladly serve you in any
fashion that you may choose, rather than that so foolish a piece of wife's knavery should come
abroad?"

"Gee whizz!" exclaimed Mr. Early, gazing at the simple seeker after truth, whose face shone
with a radiant smile. "Gee whizz! Ram Juna, but you are a business man! But she won't sign
her husband's name."

Ram Juna's smile expanded cheerfully.

"Let that remain to me. You have but to play your part," he said.

Mr. Early thought hard for a moment.

"There is need to haste," said the Swami gently. "She is now in the garden where access is
easy. Make the note. I will take it to her to sign. Hasten, my friend."

Mr. Early drew toward him pen and ink.

"It's a little flyer, and there may be something in it," he said. "I don't see that I get into
trouble any way. But see here, Swami, you deserve something for your work. I'm not going to
see you lose that five thousand. When you bring me this I O U with Dick Percival's signature,
I'll give you my check for the amount. Understand?"

"Be that as you will," said the Hindu, and he caught the piece of paper and fled toward the
thicket where Lena still played with her toy.

"Have I not told you?" he began suavely. "The necklace, less fair than its owner, is yours.
But one moment. Will you first do me a favor?"

He lifted the great white turban from his hot forehead and set it on the table before her.

"A simple bit of the skill of my country," he said. "Will you look fixedly into the great ruby
that remains mine? And, as you look, will you yield your mind to me, and let me show you a
vision? So--even deeper let your eyes penetrate to the heart of the jewel. Deeper and yet deeper."

He made a swift motion or two before her, and her eyes grew fixed.

"What do you see?"

"Myself," she answered.

"Naturally. What else could you ever see? But you are different. You are a thousand times more
beautiful. The world lies at your feet. It is a world of adulation. Do you see this?"

"Yes."

"Very well. Now look away. We must not longer see the beautiful picture. You remember we have
business. Mr. Early, your friend, and my friend, will lend you money. But how are you to repay
him? You have nothing of your own. It must be your husband who secures you. In the front of
the book which you are reading it is written 'Richard Percival'. You will copy this with your
utmost care, here on this paper. Ah, for you it is not hard to do this thing. For some it would
be hard to persuade them. You make but a poor copy. That is of indifference. I will return
this to Mr. Early. You will await me here."

