Apart from this, I am having quite a time of it on board the steamer. My fellow-passengers
are of inexhaustible variety. There is one, Aghore Babu, who cannot allude to anything, animate
or inanimate, except in terms of personal abuse. There is another, a lover of music, who persists
in attempting variations on the Bhairab[1] mode at dead of night, convincing me of the untimeliness
of his performance in more senses than one.

[Footnote: A Raga, or mode of Indian classical music, supposed to be appropriate to the early
dawn.]

The steamer has been aground in a narrow ditch of a canal ever since last evening, and it is
now past nine in the morning. I spent the night in a corner of the crowded deck, more dead
than alive. I had asked the steward to fry some luchis for my dinner, and he brought me some
nondescript slabs of fried dough with no vegetable accompaniments to eat them with. On my expressing
a pained surprise, he was all contrition and offered to make me some hotch-potch at once. But
the night being already far advanced, I declined his offer, managed to swallow a few mouthfuls
of the stuff dry, and then, all lights on and the deck packed with passengers, laid myself
down to sleep.

Mosquitoes hovered above, cockroaches wandered around. There was a fellow-sleeper stretched
crosswise at my feet whose body my soles every now and then came up against. Four or five noses
were engaged in snoring. Several mosquito-tormented, sleepless wretches were consoling themselves
by pulls at their hubble-bubble pipes; and above all, there rose those variations on the mode
Bhairab! Finally, at half-past three in the morning, some fussy busy-bodies began loudly inciting
each other to get up. In despair, I also left my bed and dropped into my deck-chair to await
the dawn. Thus passed that variegated nightmare of a night.

One of the hands tells me that the steamer has stuck so fast that it may take the whole day
to get her off. I inquire of another whether any Calcutta-bound steamer will be passing, and
get the smiling reply that this is the only boat on this line, and I may come back in her,
if I like, after she has reached Cuttack! By a stroke of luck, after a great deal of tugging
and hauling, they have just got her afloat at about ten o'clock.

TIRAN.

7th September 1891.

The landing-place at Balia makes a pretty picture with its fine big trees on either side, and
on the whole the canal somehow reminds me of the little river at Poona. On thinking it over
I am sure I should have liked the canal much better had it really been a river.

Cocoanut palms as well as mangoes and other shady trees line its banks, which, turfed with
beautifully green grass, slope gently down to the water, and are sprinkled over with sensitive
plants in flower. Here and there are screwpine groves, and through gaps in the border of trees
glimpses can be caught of endless fields, stretching away into the distance, their crops so
soft and velvety after the rains that the eye seems to sink into their depths. Then again,
there are the little villages under their clusters of cocoanut and date palms, nestling under
the moist cool shade of the low seasonal clouds.

Through all these the canal, with its gentle current, winds gracefully between its clean, grassy
banks, fringed, in its narrower stretches, with clusters of water-lilies with reeds growing
among them. And yet the mind keeps fretting at the idea that after all it is nothing but an
artificial canal.

The murmur of its waters does not reach back to the beginning of time. It knows naught of the
mysteries of some distant, inaccessible mountain cave. It has not flowed for ages, graced with
an old-world feminine name, giving the villages on its sides the milk of its breast. Even old
artificial lakes have acquired a greater dignity.

However when, a hundred years hence, the trees on its banks will have grown statelier; its
brand-new milestones been worn down and moss-covered into mellowness; the date 1871, inscribed
on its lock-gates, left behind at a respectable distance; then, if I am reborn as my great-grandson
and come again to inspect the Cuttack estates along this canal, I may feel differently towards it.

SHELIDAH,

October 1891.

Boat after boat touches at the landing-place, and after a whole year exiles are returning home
from distant fields of work for the Poojah vacation, their boxes, baskets, and bundles loaded
with presents. I notice one who, as his boat nears the shore, changes into a freshly folded
and crinkled muslin dhoti, dons over his cotton tunic a China silk coat, carefully adjusts
round his neck a neatly twisted scarf, and walks off towards the village, umbrella held aloft.

Rustling waves pass over the rice-fields. Mango and cocoanut tree-tops rise into the sky, and
beyond them there are fluffy clouds on the horizon. The fringes of the palm leaves wave in
the breeze. The reeds on the sand-bank are on the point of flowering. It is altogether an exhilarating
scene.

The feelings of the man who has just arrived home, the eager expectancy of his folk awaiting
him, this autumn sky, this world, the gentle morning breeze, the universal responsive tremor
in tree and shrub and in the wavelets on the river, conspire to overwhelm this lonely youth,
gazing from his window, with unutterable joys and sorrows.

Glimpses of the world received from wayside windows bring new desires, or rather, make old
desires take on new forms. The day before yesterday, as I was sitting at the window of the
boat, a little fisher-dinghy floated past, the boatman singing a song--not a very tuneful song.
But it reminded me of a night, years ago, when I was a child. We were going along the Padma
in a boat. I awoke one night at about 2 o'clock, and, on raising the window and putting out
my head, I saw the waters without a ripple, gleaming in the moonlight, and a youth in a little
dinghy paddling along all by himself and singing, oh so sweetly,--such sweet melody I had never
heard before.

A sudden longing came upon me to go back to the day of that song; to be allowed to make another
essay at life, this time not to leave it thus empty and unsatisfied; but with a poet's song
on my lips to float about the world on the crest of the rising tide, to sing it to men and
subdue their hearts; to see for myself what the world holds and where; to let men know me,
to get to know them; to burst forth through the world in life and youth like the eager rushing
breezes; and then return home to a fulfilled and fruitful old age to spend it as a poet should.

Not a very lofty ideal, is it? To benefit the world would have been much higher, no doubt;
but being on the whole what I am, that ambition does not even occur to me. I cannot make up
my mind to sacrifice this precious gift of life in a self-wrought famine, and disappoint the
world and the hearts of men by fasts and meditations and constant argument. I count it enough
to live and die as a man, loving and trusting the world, unable to look on it either as a delusion
of the Creator or a snare of the Devil. It is not for me to strive to be wafted away into the
airiness of an Angel.

SHELIDAH,

2nd Kartik (October) 1891.

When I come to the country I cease to view man as separate from the rest. As the river runs
through many a clime, so does the stream of men babble on, winding through woods and villages
and towns. It is not a true contrast that men may come and men may go, but I go on for ever.
Humanity, with all its confluent streams, big and small, flows on and on, just as does the
river, from its source in birth to its sea of death;--two dark mysteries at either end, and
between them various play and work and chatter unceasing.

Over there the cultivators sing in the fields: here the fishing-boats float by. The day wears
on and the heat of the sun increases. Some bathers are still in the river, others are finished
and are taking home their filled water-vessels. Thus, past both banks of the river, hundreds
of years have hummed their way, while the refrain rises in a mournful chorus: I go on for ever!

Amid the noonday silence some youthful cowherd is heard calling at the top of his voice for
his companion; some boat splashes its way homewards; the ripples lap against the empty jar
which some village woman rests on the water before dipping it; and with these mingle several
other less definite sounds,--the twittering of birds, the humming of bees, the plaintive creaking
of the house-boat as it gently swings to and fro,--the whole making a tender lullaby, as of
a mother trying to quiet a suffering child. "Fret not," she sings, as she soothingly pats its
fevered forehead. "Worry not; weep no more. Let be your strugglings and grabbings and fightings;
forget a while, sleep a while."

SHELIDAH,

3rd Kartik (October) 1891.

It was the Kojagar full moon, and I was slowly pacing the riverside conversing with myself.
It could hardly be called a conversation, as I was doing all the talking and my imaginary companion
all the listening. The poor fellow had no chance of speaking up for himself, for was not mine
the power to compel him helplessly to answer like a fool?

But what a night it was! How often have I tried to write of such, but never got it done! There
was not a line of ripple on the river; and from away over there, where the farthest shore of
the distant main stream is seen beyond the other edge of the midway belt of sand, right up
to this shore, glimmers a broad band of moonlight. Not a human being, not a boat in sight;
not a tree, nor blade of grass on the fresh-formed island sand-bank.

It seemed as though a desolate moon was rising upon a devastated earth; a random river wandering
through a lifeless solitude; a long-drawn fairy-tale coming to a close over a deserted world,--all
the kings and the princesses, their ministers and friends and their golden castles vanished,
leaving the Seven Seas and Thirteen Rivers and the Unending Moor, over which the adventurous
princes fared forth, wanly gleaming in the pale moonlight. I was pacing up and down like the
last pulse-beats of this dying world. Every one else seemed to be on the opposite shore--the
shore of life--where the British Government and the Nineteenth Century hold sway, and tea and
cigarettes.

SHELIDAH,

9th January 1892.

For some days the weather here has been wavering between Winter and Spring. In the morning,
perhaps, shivers will run over both land and water at the touch of the north wind; while the
evening will thrill with the south breeze coming through the moonlight.

There is no doubt that Spring is well on its way. After a long interval the papiya once more
calls out from the groves on the opposite bank. The hearts of men too are stirred; and after
evening falls, sounds of singing are heard in the village, showing that they are no longer
in such a hurry to close doors and windows and cover themselves up snugly for the night.

To-night the moon is at its full, and its large, round face peers at me through the open window
on my left, as if trying to make out whether I have anything to say against it in my letter,--it
suspects, maybe, that we mortals concern ourselves more with its stains than its beams.

A bird is plaintively crying tee-tee on the sand-bank. The river seems not to move. There are
no boats. The motionless groves on the bank cast an unquivering shadow on the waters. The haze
over the sky makes the moon look like a sleepy eye kept open.

Henceforward the evenings will grow darker and darker; and when, to-morrow, I come over from
the office, this moon, the favourite companion of my exile, will already have drifted a little
farther from me, doubting whether she had been wise to lay her heart so completely bare last
evening, and so covering it up again little by little.

Nature becomes really and truly intimate in strange and lonely places. I have been actually
worrying myself for days at the thought that after the moon is past her full I shall daily
miss the moonlight more and more; feeling further and further exiled when the beauty and peace
which awaits my return to the riverside will no longer be there, and I shall have to come back
through darkness.

Anyhow I put it on record that to-day is the full moon--the first full moon of this year's
springtime. In years to come I may perchance be reminded of this night, with the tee-tee of
the bird on the bank, the glimmer of the distant light on the boat off the other shore, the
shining expanse of river, the blur of shade thrown by the dark fringe of trees along its edge,
and the white sky gleaming overhead in unconcerned aloofness.

SHELIDAH,

7th April 1892.

The river is getting low, and the water in this arm of it is hardly more than waist-deep anywhere.
So it is not at all extraordinary that the boat should be anchored in mid-stream. On the bank,
to my right, the ryots are ploughing and cows are now and then brought down to the water's
edge for a drink. To the left there are the mango and cocoanut trees of the old Shelidah garden
above, and on the bathing slope below there are village women washing clothes, filling water
jars, bathing, laughing and gossiping in their provincial dialect.

The younger girls never seem to get through their sporting in the water; it is a delight to
hear their careless, merry laughter. The men gravely take their regulation number of dips and
go away, but girls are on much more intimate terms with the water. Both alike babble and chatter
and ripple and sparkle in the same simple and natural manner; both may languish and fade away
under a scorching glare, yet both can take a blow without hopelessly breaking under it. The
hard world, which, but for them, would be barren, cannot fathom the mystery of the soft embrace
of their arms.

Tennyson has it that woman to man is as water to wine. I feel to-day it should be as water
is to land. Woman is more at home with the water, laving in it, playing with it, holding her
gatherings beside it; and while, for her, other burdens are not seemly, the carrying of water
from the spring, the well, the bank of river or pool, has ever been held to become her.

BOLPUR,

2nd May 1892.

There are many paradoxes in the world and one of them is this, that wherever the landscape
is immense, the sky unlimited, clouds intimately dense, feelings unfathomable--that is to say
where infinitude is manifest--its fit companion is one solitary person; a multitude there seems
so petty, so distracting.

An individual and the infinite are on equal terms, worthy to gaze on one another, each from
his own throne. But where many men are, how small both humanity and infinitude become, how
much they have to knock off each other, in order to fit in together! Each soul wants so much
room to expand that in a crowd it needs must wait for gaps through which to thrust a little
craning piece of a head from time to time.

So the only result of our endeavour to assemble is that we become unable to fill our joined
hands, our outstretched arms, with this endless, fathomless expanse.

BOLPUR,

8th Jaistha (May) 1892.

Women who try to be witty, but only succeed in being pert, are insufferable; and as for attempts
to be comic they are disgraceful in women whether they succeed or fail. The comic is ungainly
and exaggerated, and so is in some sort related to the sublime. The elephant is comic, the
camel and the giraffe are comic, all overgrowth is comic.

It is rather keenness that is akin to beauty, as the thorn to the flower. So sarcasm is not
unbecoming in woman, though coming from her it hurts. But ridicule which savours of bulkiness
woman had better leave to our sublime sex. The masculine Falstaff makes our sides split, but
a feminine Falstaff would only rack our nerves.

BOLPUR,

12th Jaistha (May) 1892.

I usually pace the roof-terrace, alone, of an evening. Yesterday afternoon I felt it my duty
to show my visitors the beauties of the local scenery, so I strolled out with them, taking
Aghore as a guide.

On the verge of the horizon, where the distant fringe of trees was blue, a thin line of dark
blue cloud had risen over them and was looking particularly beautiful. I tried to be poetical
and said it was like blue collyrium on the fringe of lashes enhancing a beautiful blue eye.
Of my companions one did not hear the remark, another did not understand, while the third dismissed
it with the reply: "Yes, very pretty." I did not feel encouraged to attempt a second poetical
flight.

After walking about a mile we came to a dam, and along the pool of water there was a row of
tal (fan palm) trees, under which was a natural spring. While we stood there looking at this,
we found that the line of cloud which we had seen in the North was making for us, swollen and
grown darker, flashes of lightning gleaming the while.

We unanimously came to the conclusion that viewing the beauties of nature could be better done
from within the shelter of the house, but no sooner had we turned homewards than a storm, making
giant strides over the open moorland, was on us with an angry roar. I had no idea, while I
was admiring the collyrium on the eyelashes of beauteous dame Nature, that she would fly at
us like an irate housewife, threatening so tremendous a slap!

It became so dark with the dust that we could not see beyond a few paces. The fury of the storm
increased, and flying stony particles of the rubbly soil stung our bodies like shot, as the
wind took us by the scruff of the neck and thrust us along, to the whipping of drops of rain
which had begun to fall.

Run! Run! But the ground was not level, being deeply scarred with watercourses, and not easy
to cross at any time, much less in a storm. I managed to get entangled in a thorny shrub, and
was nearly thrown on my face by the force of the wind as I stopped to free myself.

When we had almost reached the house, a host of servants came hurrying towards us, shouting
and gesticulating, and fell upon us like another storm. Some took us by the arms, some bewailed
our plight, some were eager to show the way, others hung on our backs as if fearing that the
storm might carry us off altogether. We evaded their attentions with some difficulty and managed
at length to get into the house, panting, with wet clothes, dusty bodies, and tumbled hair.

One thing I had learnt; and will never again write in novel or story the lie that the hero
with the picture of his lady-love in his mind can pass unruffled through wind and rain. No
one could keep any face in mind, however lovely, in such a storm,--he has enough to do to keep
the sand out of his eyes!...

The Vaishnava-poets have sung ravishingly of Radha going to her tryst with Krishna through
a stormy night. Did they ever pause to consider, I wonder, in what condition she must have
reached him? The kind of tangle her hair got into is easily imaginable, and also the state
of the rest of her toilet. When she arrived in her bower with the dust on her body soaked by
the rain into a coating of mud, she must have been a sight!

