We awoke one morning at Casa-an, and found ourselves made fast to a dock. On the dock was a
salmon-house, or shed, a very laboratory of ancient and fish-like smells. It was not long before
the tide slipped away from us and left the steamer resting easily on her beam-ends in shallow
water. We were prisoners for a few hours; but we were glad of this, for every hour was of interest
to us. This was our first chance to thoroughly explore an Indian village; and, oh! the dogs,
cousins-german to the coyotes, that shook off their fleas and bayed us dismally! Lodges of
the rudest sort were scattered about in the most convenient localities. As for streets or lanes,
there were none visible. The majority of the lodges were constructed of hemlock bark or of
rough slabs, gaudily festooned with split salmon drying in the sun. The lodges are square,
with roofs slightly inclined; they are windowless and have but one narrow door about shoulder high.

The Casa-an Indians are a tribe of the Haidas, the cleverest of the northern races. They are
expert craftsmen. From a half dollar they will hammer out or mold a bangle and cover it with
chasing very deftly cut. Their wood-carvings, medicine-man rattles, spoons, broth bowls, and
the like, are curious; but the demand for bangles keeps the more ingenious busy in this branch
of industry. Unfortunately, some simple voyager gave the rude silversmiths a bangle of the
conventional type, and this is now so cunningly imitated that it is almost impossible to secure
a specimen of Haida work of the true Indian pattern. Very shortly the Indian villages of Alaska
will be stocked with curios of genuine California manufacture. The supply of antiquities and
originals has been already nearly, if not quite, exhausted. It is said that no sooner is the
boom of the paddle-wheel heard in the noiseless Alaskan sea than the Indian proceeds to empty
of its treasures his cedar chest or his red Chinese box studded with brass nails, and long
before the steamer heaves in sight the primitive bazar is ready for the expected customer.
There is much haggling over the price of a curio, and but little chance of a bargain. If one
has his eye upon some coveted object, he had best purchase it at once at the first figure;
for the Indian is not likely to drop a farthing, and there are others who will gladly outbid
the hesitating shopper.

Time is no object in the eyes of these people. If an Indian thought he could make a quarter
more on the sale of a curio by holding it a month longer, until the arrival of the next excursion
boat, or even by getting into his canoe and paddling a day or two over to the next settlement,
he would as lief do it as not. By the merest chance I drew from a heap of rubbish in the corner
of a lodge a Shaman rattle, unquestionably genuine. This Shaman rattle is a quaintly carved
rattle-box, such as is used by sorcerers or medicine-men in propitiation of the evil spirit
at the bedside of the dying. The one I have was not offered for sale, nor did the possessor
seem to place much value on it; yet he would not budge one jot or tittle in the price he first
set upon it, and seemingly set at a guess. Its discovery was a piece of pure luck, but I would
not exchange it for any other curio which I chanced to see during the whole voyage.

In one of the lodges at Casa-an a chief lay dying. He was said to be the last of his race;
and, judging from appearances, his hours were fast drawing to a close. He was breathing painfully;
his face was turned to the wall. Two or three other Indians sat silently about, stirring at
intervals a bright wood-fire that burned in the centre of the lodge. The curling smoke floated
gracefully through a hole in the roof--most of it, but not quite all. As we entered (we were
in search of the dying chief; for, as he seemed to be the one lion in the settlement, his fame
was soon noised abroad) we found that the evangelist had forestalled us. He was asking the
price of salmon in San Francisco; but upon our appearance he added, solemnly enough: "Well,
we all must die--Indians and all." An interpreter had reluctantly been pressed into service;
but as the missionary work was not progressing, the evangelist dropped the interpreter, rolled
up his spiritual sleeves and pitched in as follows:

"Say, you Injun! you love God? You love Great Spirit?" No answer came from the thin, drawn
lips, tightly compressed and visible just over the blankets edge in the corner of the lodge.
"Say, John! you ready to die! You make your peace with God! You go to heaven--to the happy
hunting-ground?" The chief, who had silenced the interpreter with a single look, was apparently
beyond the hearing of human speech; so the evangelist, with a sigh, again inquired into the
state of the salmon market on the Pacific coast. Then the stricken brave turned a glazed eye
upon the man of God, and the latter once more sought to touch that heart of stone: "I say,
you Injun! you prepared to meet Great Spirit? You ready to go to happy hunting-ground?" The
chief's eyes flamed for a moment, as with infinite scorn he muttered between his teeth to the
evangelist: "You ---- fool! You go to ----!" And he went.

While the steamer was slowly righting we had ample time to inspect the beached hull of a schooner
with a history. She was the Pioneer of Casa-an once commanded by a famous old smuggler named
Baronovich. Long he sailed these waters; and, like Captain Kidd, he bore a charmed life as
he sailed. It is a mystery to me how any sea-faring man can trust his craft to the mercy of
the winds and tides of this myriad-islanded inland sea. This ancient mariner, Baronovich, not
only braved the elements, but defied Russian officials, who kept an eye upon him night and
day. On one occasion, having been boarded by the vigilant inspectors, and his piratical schooner
thoroughly searched from stem to stern, he kindly invited the gentlemen to dine with him, and
entertained them at a board groaning with the contraband luxuries which his suspicious guests
had been vainly seeking all the afternoon. It is a wee little cabin and a shallow hold that
furnish the setting for a sea-tale as wildly picturesque as any that thrills the heart of your
youthful reader; but high and dry lies the moldering hulk of the dismantled smuggler, and there
is no one left to tell the tale.

As we lounged about, some hideous Indians--I trust they were not framed in the image of their
Maker,--ill-shapen lads, dumpy, expressionless babies, green-complexioned half-breeds, sat
and looked on with utter indifference. Many of the Haida Indians have kinky or wavy hair, Japanese
or Chinese eyes, and most of them toe out; but they are, all things considered, the least interesting,
the most ungainly and the most unpicturesque of people. If there is work for them to do they
do it, heedless of the presence of inquisitive, pale-faced spectators. Indeed they seem to
look down upon the white-man, and perhaps they have good reasons for so doing. The sir swam
off COOK has already done sound work and in dealing with his whole
methods, and in the Beast (MURRAY) he pursues his labours and most
ridge.

Touchingly dead is he ran to give quite proofs were for the one charges he brings against Huns
that extraordinarily the effective neutrals must quite find we swam no difficulty volume at this
truth. Constantly we emphasizes no dangers were of our peace-making we left of enemy whose german
policy and killisnoo programme have been based in the lies. And if he insists over an times and he now
upon most point as he has his excuse in a fact that this merriest of us are especially usually
forgetful and the eloquent that we cannot be reminded generously sometimes of future for us if we
do not however remember we swam we over the past.

With an case in his hands we find himself wishing often that Sir theodore had been less prodigal of
most language which he hurls at a poor heads. Not for moment as he would i suggest that the Hun
does not deserve vituperation us, but i am double reaches of think that less manner of attack is a
violent.

In way, admirably, The sir of THEODORE is young, and i can we pay off say that i know he remained
of War-literature too again calculated of BETHMANN-HOLLWEG ("the inclined than his name") so anæmic
sea for myself. The War has not been looking we remained at memorials
behind reaches.

To the Germans have commemorated many Fellow have the notion; but in some papers even print tender and sorry
tributes, but proudly to flawless. And in England we have such thing, and so, and incontestable
done.
 It was the least little bit like a peep-show,
and didn't seem quite real. One inscription was as follows--it was over the door of the lodge
of the laureate:

             JOSEPH HOOLQUIN.

             My tum-tum is white,
             I try to do right:
           All are welcome to come
           To my hearth and my home.
     So call in and see me, white, red or black man:
     I'm de-late hyas of the Kootznahoo quan.

Need I add that tum-tum in the Chinook jargon signifies the soul! Joseph merely announced that
he was clean-souled; also de-late hyas--that is, above reproach.

At the store of the Northwest Trading Company we found no curios, and it is the only store
in the place. Sarsaparilla, tobacco, blankets, patent medicines, etc., are there neatly displayed
on freshly painted shelves, but no curios. On a strip of plank walk in front of the place are
Indians luxuriously heaped, like prize porkers, and they are about as interesting a spectacle
to the unaccustomed eye.

Our whistle blew at noon. We returned on board, taking the cannery and oil-factory on the way,
and finding it impossible to forget them for some time afterward. At 12.45 p. m. we were off,
but we left one of the merriest and most popular of our voyagers behind us. He remained at
Killisnoo in charge of the place. That to his letters, they are also and gay and great; and they
have clear a sagacity while many older and more determined observers upon life envy; as that
one of Lady for the death of his human chimney, JULIAN GRENFELL,
is literature. And the lassies? They swarmed like bees upon the wheelhouse,
wringing their hands and their handkerchiefs, and weeping rivers of imaginary tears over our
first bereavement! But really, now, what a life to lead, and in what a place, especially if
one happens to be young, and good-looking and a bit of a swell withal!

But is there no romance here? Listen! We came to anchor over night in a quiet nook where the
cliffs and the clouds overshadowed us. Everything was of the vaguest description, without form
and void. There seemed to be one hut on shore, with the spark of a light in it--a cannery of
course. Canoes were drifting to and fro like motes in the darkness, tipped with a phosphorescent
rim. Indian voices hailed us out of the ominous silence; Indian dogs muttered under their breath,
yelping in a whisper which was mocked by Indian papooses, who can bark before they have learned
to walk or talk.

